96 yL\ES, HARDY AND TESDER.
way, are treated similarly to the first-named kinds as regards propa-
gating.
ANTIGNON LEPTOPUS— In the Southern States this is one of the
most satisfactory vines; even in Washington it blooms for about two
months out of doors; that is, when put out as small plants. When large
specimens are planted out the period of blooming is much longer. The
flowers are bright pink, in very large clusters. It should be propagated
from cuttings taken in September; make the cuttings with a single leaf
attached, and cut below a joint. The large roots are tuberous looking,
enabling the old plants to be easily wintered over in a cool house.
ARAUJA (Schubertia) GRANDIFLORA— It is seldom that we see this
noble vine grown well in greenhouses, the plants being usually sickly
and infested with mealy bug. As a Summer vine out of- doors it makes
very vigorous growth, and after midsummer it bears a profusion of
bloom. The flowers are not unlike those of Stephanotis floribunda, but
are larger and quite as sweetly scented. Cuttings make the best flower-
ing vines. These may be taken from the ripe wood before the advent of
cool weather. Seeds are freely produced in large egg-shaped fruits; they
germinate freely shortly after being sown.
ARISTOLOCHIA STURTEVANTII and A. ELEGANS are easy to grow,
and are almost certain to produce an abundant crop of their
exceedingly curious flowers. A. Sturtevantii has soft growth, more so
than any other species, and roots very readily from cuttings. A.elegans
gets hard soon after developing, and is a trifle diflicult to root; but seeds
are produced abundantly, and the seedlings are every bit as floriferous
as plants raised from cuttings. Both of these kinds may be planted out
in Summer to cover trellis work. An intermediate house will suit them
in Winter. A. elegans ripens seeds in the open at Washington. Further
North the seasons are too short, unless large plants are taken to start
with.
A. sipho is a native species, hut far behind the tropical ones in the
beauty of its flowers. Sometimes we need a vine for covering unsightly
structures under the shade of trees; this is the best to be had, as it luxu-
riates under those conditions. It is most easily raised from seeds.
ASPARAGUS PLUnOSUS NANUS -Plants in beds requiring divid-
ing and replanting should be attended to about the middle of July,
so as to make suflacient root growth to enable the plants to send up
strong shoots. Keep dry for a short time before dividing. This will
have a tendency to render any young roots which may be on the plant
less succulent, and after planting they will push out all right again.
Solid beds, with the idea of having them in good condition for several
seasons, should be carefully prepared. The ground soil should, if reten-
tive, be thrown out to a considerable depth, drainage, such as broken
brick or stones, put in the bottom, and the soil put back with a little
manure or leaf soil mixed with it. This is merely for the sub-soil. Over
this prepared soil 8 inches or a foot deep should be placed, boxing the
sides to a height of G inches or so. With the crowns raised above the
