98 VINES, HARDY AND TENDER.
ground level of the house there Is little danger of over-watering. After
planting, for a week or so allow the atmosphere to get humid, but not
euough to force the plants into undue activity. This Asparagus, which
is probably entitled to specific rank, instead of being a variety of A.
plumosus, sends out some of its stems from the horizontal root-stock
traversing a considerable distance under the surface before making their
appearance above ground. If the terminal part of an underground stem
is injured before making its appearance above ground, the dormant
buds develop eventually into small crowns, sending out both shoots
and long succulent roots. The same conditions happen sometimes after
the developed shoot is severed, but in this case infrequently, as the break
is more apt to be above ground. The kind known as A. plumosus does
not have this peculiarity, the shoots growing straight from the crowns.
A. Plumosus Nanus as a Pot Plant— Tn this capacity the plants must be
in a starved state, that is, without strong shoots; but with numerous
small ones 6 inches to a foot high. When once they get into a starved
state it takes quite a while to get them out of it, and this is quickest
accomplished by splitting the plant up into very small pieces. This
should only be done when it is desirable to make plants for strings. The
root stocks are very close together, crowding each other and sending
out tiny growths. When grown in pots they seldom make tall climbing
shoots, and when they do show such a tendency, all that is necessary
to keep plants within bounds is to nip off the ends of the shoots a few
inches above the pot. In getting up a stock for pot plants plant them
out on benches, using only 3 or 4 inches of soil, planting out quite
closely together; keep pinching, splitting up and replanting or potting
as required.
A Plumosus Nanus for Short Sprays — The cutting of short growths
of this plant to supply green for Summer flowers, beyond the safe
hmit, is an evil to be guarded against. The idea should be kept in
mind all the time that this Asparagus, especially after the strings are
cut and the short bushy sprays remain, needs so much live material to
keep it healthy. If the quantity of branches is out of proportion to the
roots and kept for any length of time in that condition, the roots must
suffer; the branches subsequently thrown up put on that undesirable
yellow color which is worse than no Asparagus at all. Keep old plants
pinched down until the time when it is desired to start strings, so that
the bottom part will break and supply short material, which in Sum-
mer pays best with those growing for local trade. The plants should,
if anything, be kept on the dry side, but not dry enough to suffer, and
be given an abundance of ventilation.
Raising from Seed— Seed of Asparagus plumosus nanus, or that which
is offered under the name of A. p. nanus, is not always to be depended
upon, unless the seed is procured from a reliable source or home grown,
and known to be true to name. The reason for this is that A. plumo-
sus is the kind which fruits most freely, and some not knowing the dif-
ference between the two sorts and others knowing, but also appreciat-
ing the fact that A. p. nanus is the better of the two, and that seed
q-oing under the name of the latter is sure to command the best prices.
