VINES, HARDY AND TENDER. 99
Germination is very irregular with seed sown in some soils. The best
medium I have found is rough grained sand that does not pack. Cover
to the depth of half an inch.
A. tenuissimus is of a lighter green than A. plumosus and A. p.
nanus. If cuttings of the ripe branches are put in bottom heat they will
root freely. In small pots the plants are very ornamental and useful for
associating with ferns and other plants in filling pans. This Asparagus
used to be trained on strings, but has been superseded for this purpose
by A. p. nanus.
BIQNONIA VENUSTA is one of the most reliable of our warm green-
house climbers. It should be planted out in a box built of bricks, such
box being large enough to hold several bushels of soil. The ideal way
to train is to a single main stem along the rafters of the greenhouse.
From this stem the growths on which the flowers appear are allowed
to hang downward to their full length. By judicious trimming of these
growths, and short resting periods before starting into growth, two
crops of bloom may be had each year. The flowers are reddish orange
in color, and are produced in great profusion. Propagation is by cut-
tings of the ripe growths in March. The plant will bear full sunshine
all the year round.
BOUGAINVILLEA SPECTABILIS and B. LATERITIA which is said
to be a variety of the former, are sometimes shy in blooming; but the
cause will be found in unsuitable root conditions. Planted in well
drained soil and fed with liquid manure while making the flowering
wood, they are equally as attractive as the better known B. glabra.
Like the Bignonias they should be trained to long single stems, and
flowered from lateral growths, pruning these severely before starting
into growth. Propagated freely from cuttings of the ripe wood.
BOUSSINGAULTIA BASELLOIDES (Madeira Vine)— In well drained
sunny situations, such as may be found at the south side of a wall, this
plant frequently stands out all the year round in Washington, D. C. It
is a favorite vine with a great many people. It is very readily increased
by taking the little tubercles which form on the vine and sowing them
in rows in the open, without supports. The tubers, which form under-
ground, may also be taken, cut up into small pieces and treated in the
same way. After the vines are blackened by frost, dig up and store with
Dahlia roots.
BRYONIA LACINIOSA— A slender cut-leaved vine, with rather hand-
some red fruit the size of a cherry, beautifully marked with white.
Raised from seeds, which may be sown out-of-doors end of April.
CHILDSIA (Hidalgoa) WERCKLEI— A native of the mountain regions
of Costa Rica and only recently introduced, so that but little is known
of its cultural requirements. It is a vine of soft growth with compound
leaves. The flowers are not unlike those of a single Zinnia; the color is
intense scarlet. Like other greenhouse vines of this family (Composita?)
such as the Mutisias, the weak growths will not produce flowers, conse-
quently the plants should be encouraged to make robust growth, espe-
