100 VINES, HARDY AND TENDER
cially during the late Winter months, to flower in April and May. When
planted out in Summer the vines make very rapid headway, but the
flower display is meagre. For the Southern States and California it
mny turn out to be a very desirable vine. With us it seems to thrive
best in a rather cool house.
CISSUS DISCOLOR— No other vine approaches this species in so far
as the beauty of its foliage is concerned. The leaves are reddish on the
lower surface; on the upper surface the color is bright velvety green
mottled with silver; stem red. It is usually grown in a warm house,
where its growth is very rapid. Cuttings of the ripened wood will root
at almost any period of the year. C. antarctica is a well known w^in-
dow plant, for which purpose it is admirably suited. It is not particular
as to treatment.
CLEMATIS PANICULATA is a hardy white flowering vine, blooming
during August and September. It has jumped quickly into popular
favor, being one of the best hardy vines in cultivation. Seeds ripen in No-
vember. Raising from seed is the best and easiest method of propagation.
If sown when ripe the seed will germinate early in Spring and make fair-
sized plants by the following Fall; but if kept till Spring, and sown
then, they will not germinate till the Fall; even then they have to be
carried over in boxes in frames, and are not much in advance of the seed-
lings which germinate the following Spring. From thib it will be seen
that a years growth is gained by Fall sowing. Likemost other Clema-
tises it does best in deep, heavy loam well enriched with manure.
Grafting Large=Flowered Varieties— Clematis of the Jackmanni and
Lanuginosa types, that is, those having the large blue, purple, lavender
or white flowers, some of them, the singles, being about 8 inches across
and some double, are all worth attention, as they give an elegant dis-
play of flowers from June all through the Summer; that is, if properly
attended to in the way of soil, mulching and watering. They all dislike
limited root space and show it in poor-sized flowers and few of them.
The varieties may be propagated from the beginning of January till the
beginning of April. Lift a few roots of such species as C. hgustrifolia, C.
paniculata or C. viticella for tying on pieces of any of the sorts desired to
be increased. Whip grafting will answer best. Tie the stock and cion
together with rafSa and place in a box of chopped moss, standing the
box in a propagating frame with a temperature of from 65 to 70
degrees. Afterward they are gradually given air, potted on, and hard-
ened off as they require it. Encourage them to make all the growth
possible before cool weather. They should be started early in the season
in a cool house not too much heated. With one or two flowers on they
are ready selling plants, and all that are sold will be advertisements for
next seasons supply. Another method of propagation is to take cut-
tings of the young wood about the middle of June, and root indoors.
This is the method mostly employed in this country; but grafted stock
make the strongest plants in a given space of time, owing to the
stronger root action.
The beautiful C. coccinea is a variety of our native C. Viorna. It is
