102 VINES, HARDY AND TENDER.
well adapted for wire trellis work. There are other good forms, such
as Countess of York, Countess of Onslow and Duchess of Albany.
CLERODENDRON THOMSONS— A wonderfully floriferous vine, which
can be flowered successfully in 6 and S-inch pots. Old plants may
be allowed to get in a dormant state in Autumn reduced and repotted
in February, but as much as possible of the old wood saved, as from
this they produce flowers on short growths. Each plant will require
the support of three or four stocks. Cuttings may be struck in Spring
and planted out during the hot months to make growth. The flower is
bright crimson, the calyx being large and pure white.
C. speciosum— In growth this resembles the above. The flowers are
scarlet, and the calyx tinged with red.
CLITORIA TERNATEA— A half-hardy annual vine, and one of the
vei-y best, making an exceedingly pleasing display when in rich soil and
given supports about 4 feet high. The flowers are dark blue, in shape
and size resembling those of the Sweet Pea. The seed should be started
indoors early. The seedlings, no matter how carefully they are tended,
look as if they had a hard struggle for existenr-e, but under the influence
of full sunshine they will make good plants by the middle of May, when
they may be planted out for the Summer. This vine is sometimes grown
as a creeper, but the very attractive flowers are better seen when it is
allowed to climb. It is an ideal plant for growing on iron railings.
There are pink, white, and double-flowered forms.
COB^A SCANDENS — When grown indoors as a perennial this Aine
will attain a length of 30 feet. In this country it is principally grown
as an annual for outdoor use in Summer. As the seeds germinate quickly
and need pricking off shortly, or almost immediately after germinating,
owing to their large cotyledons, it will save time to put each seed in a
2-inch pot; fill the pots and merely press the seed in edgewise. No cov-
ering is necessary if the seed be pressed in deeply so that only the upper
edge is seen when the soil is settled by watering. C. s. variegata is a
pretty form for the greenhouse. Increased by cuttings.
HEDERA HELIX (English Ivy) — The varieties of this species are numer-
ous; some have very small leaves as in H. Doneraliensis, others are very
large leaved, as, for instance, H. dentata. Others again are beautifully
variegated. Nearly all of the Ivies make good pot plants, and some of
the varieties will develop more leaves and stems to a given size of pot
than any other plant in cultivation. If the cuttings are taken from
outdoor plants ijropagation should be done in Autumn, as then the foli-
age is at its best, and it keeps splendidly during the Winter months on
good-sized cuttings rooted in frames. The variegated kinds should be
given the protection of a frame, especially for stock purposes; and cut-
tings of these kinds are rooted in March. They will not root so freely
from large-sized cuttings as from more moderate-sized ones. The less
sun the plants get in Winter the hardier they will be, as rapid thawing
and freezing is injurious to the foliage. Where a supply of leaves is
wanted during the Winter the vines may be planted on a position slop-
