VINES, HARDY AND TENDER. 103
ing to the north. In cold localities a light covering of fine branches
will be beneficial.
HOYA CARNOSA is the most popular of the genus. It has large
umbels of flesh-colored flowers. It is a popular house plant with many.
There is a beautifully variegated form. For cuttings take good sized
pieces, pot and plunge in brisk bottom heat. The young plants should,
if started early, be given a rather high temperature. In Summer they
may be plunged in the full sun out-of-doors. An intermediate house and
only a moderate supply of water will suit them in Winter.
HUnULUS JAPONICUS VARIEQATUS— In the warmer parts of the
country, at least, this vine is a hardy annual, and one of the most hand-
some of those having variegated leaves. To have an early growth, the
seeds should be sown about the beginning of March and the seedlings
potted off singly when large enough. Green leaves preponderate on the
seedlings, gradually becoming better colored as the plants increase in
height.
IPOMCEA — The Japanese Morning Glories vary much in the color of
the flowers, and while some of them are undoubtedly pretty there are
numerous shades which will never become popular. A year or two ago
out of a package of seed I had 25 distinct shades of colors. None of
them approach in beauty the well-known I. Learii or the kind known as
I. rubro-coerulea. The first named is evidently a perennial without
tubers, and it is propagated from cuttings; the last named, from seed.
The tuberous-rooted kinds need only to be treated like Caunas or
Dahlias during the Winter. In Summer few climbers can equal them in
perpetual masses of bloom. Ipomoea paniculata is probably the best of
the lot. Other good ones are I. scabra, I. Hardingii, I. Horsfallise and
I. insignis. The two last named are nearly alike, but I. insignis is the
best Summer bloomer. I. Michauxi, a native of the Southern States,
makes an excellent outdoor vine if started early in the greenhouse.
Under cultivation the large flowering variety of the native I. pandurata
makes a display of bloom never seen in a wild state. As to their propa-
gation I. HorsfaUise and I. insignis are either rooted from cuttings taken
during September, or grafted on seedling stocks of I. pandurata. The
other tuberous-rooted kinds are best raised from seed, which should be
preserved in the capsules until the beginning of February and sown in
boxes of chopped sphagnum, in which they germinate much sooner
than in soil. Keep in a growing atmosphere, as the seedlings are prone
to develop tubers and go to rest shortly after the seed leaves are formed.
Ipomoea Briggsae is one of the best flowering vines of moderate growth
for the decoration of the greenhouse during the Winter months. Most
of the other Ipomoeas bloom during the Summer, but this one makes a
liberal supply of shoots during the Summer from which it blooms dur-
ing the dull months of the year. The color of the flowers is very deep
crimson. The old plants should be repotted in early Summer, using
light, rich soil and giving them pots large enough to flower in. As the
shoots develop they should be tied around stakes, and later on, if wanted
