104 VIXES, HARDY AXD TENDER.
to cover pillars or rafters, these shoots can easily be untied and fastened
in the positions in which they are wanted to bloom.
Ipomoea grandiflora (The Moonflower)— Plants from Autumnrooted
cuttings which were shifted on after the first potting, will, by the begin-
ning of February, be throwing out a quantity of shoots which are
intended to be utilized for cuttings. When these shoots get a foot or
more in length nip the ends out, as by doing so the remaining part will
ripen more quickly and provide better material for single eye cuttings.
The plants from these will be large enough by planting-out time. Large
flowering plants of the common Moonflower will often ripen considerable
quantities of seed; these, when gathered, are very large and rather soft,
but when kept for some time they diminish in size and get very hard, so
much so that they refuse to germinate under ordinary conditions. Put
them into a saucer of water and stand the vessel on a warm bench for a
day or two, when the seeds will soften. This condition will be indicated
by their swelling to two or three times their normal size; they should
then be sown singly in small pots, keeping the soil only slightlj^ moist
to prevent rotting. The Moonflower is comparatively seldom seen. One
of the probable reasons is, that at the planting-out season the vines are
unattractive-looking, and as most people want plants in bloom when
they buy, the Moonflower is overlooked. Plants should be in 4-incli pots
before planting out, as those out of smaller sized pots take too long a
time to develop.
KADSURA JAPONICA— A rather-attractive looking vine allied to the
Magnolias, with small yellowish white pendant flowers. It is propa-
gated from the ripe wood in August.
LAPAQERIA ROSEA and L. ALBA— Our hot Summers are not favora-
ble for the growth of this plant under ordinary circumstances. Where a
cool shaded spot can be devoted to it success may follow. To flower
well the Lapageria should be planted out. Propagation is best effected
by layering the stems. This subject is one of the choicest of cool green-
house climbers.
LATHYRUS LATIFOLIUS ALBUS is among the finest of Summer
flowering herbaceous plants. The flowers are pure white and come in
very useful for making up designs. It is a comparatively scarce plant and
the seeds offered by dealers are not always to be depended upon, as xhe
pollen from the pink flowered one, usually to be found in gardens, seems
to act quicker on the stigmas of the white variety than its own pollen.
In seeding theyshould be kept apart so that there will be no danger
of their mixing. Sow the seeds indoors, in boxes or flats, and keep in
growth all Winter. In a temperate house the plants will only be in 3-
inch pots by planting-out time in the Spring. To support the vines run
some stout branches in the ground around the plants, bend and tie
together at the top.
Sweet Peas are sown at different seasons in different localities, to be
in bloom at or about the same time. In the vicinity of Washington the
crop put in the ground during the latter half of September is usually 3
or 4 inches high by the beginning of December. The crop put in from
