VINES, HARDY AND TENDER. 105
four to six weeks later is usually in bloom about the same time as the
plants raised Irom seeds sown during the end of February or beginning
of March; but the early sown crop is in bloom from two to three weeks
ahead of the others. Aside from early flowering nothing is gained, for
it cannot be said that the plants are stronger or better able to with-
stand warm and dry weather. In this vicinity it is impossible for the
plants to continue in health during the very warm weather. In more
Northern latitudes the season is much longer. To have the plants in a
flowering state for as long a time as possible they should be mulched
and watered, choosing the most airy stretch of ground for tbeir
cultivation. Plants for blooming indoors should be sown just as soon
as the weather gets a little cool. They may either be sown in their per-
manent positions, or in pots, and planted out where they are to bloom.
There is a very large num!)erof varieties grown for the retail seed trade;
but six varieties at the very most are quite enough for the production of
cut blooms. (See Supplement to Third Edition, page SOS.)
Supports for Sweet Peas— Sweet Pea vines should never be allowed
to tumble to one side from their.own weight through lack of a suitable
support. The most natural supports are branches of trees, about 4 or
5 feet long, stuck in on each side of the row. The plants are provided
with tendrils which cling to the small twigs of the branches. A quicker
method, the results of which are not quite so satisfactory, is to have
strong sticks driven in at intervals of a few feet along the rows, with
twine or wire fastened to them. Wire netting of a pretty wide mesh,
when properly adjusted, makes the best support. It is the most expen-
sive at first, but in the long run the cheapest, as it can be taken care of
to last for years. Perhaps the best method of using the wire netting is
to stretch it fastened to iron supports between two rows of peas, thinly
sown, each row about 12 or 18 inches apart.
LONICERA SEMPERVIRENS (Woodbine) is a most beautiful native
species; the flowers are darkredand yellow. There are several varieties;
one has pale yellow flowers. L. caprifolium, flowers yellowish, large. L.
Periclymenum is the common English Honeysuckle. It is a very strong
growing vine and exceedingly fragrant. L. japonica produces flowers
dull red and white; very fragrant; a most profuse bloomer. L. Hal-
leana, the flowers of this species open pure white, changing to a dull
yellow; when the plants get sufficient moisture thiy continue blooming
all Summer. L. brachypoda aureo-reticulata is a weak grower if not
planted in good soil. It is grown for its beautifully marked foliage,
which is netted with yellow. L. Heckrotii, a species with glaucous foli-
age and very handsome reddish pink flowers, blooms continuously from
near midsummer. All the kinds root freely from ripe wood after mid-
summer.
HANETTIA CORDIFOLIA— One of the handsomest of the low-growing
flowering vines, growing about 4 feet in a season, and covered from
midsummer on with bright red tubular flowers. It is almost hardy in
the District of Columbia, surviving ordinary Winters with the protection
of some litter thrown over the crowns. Green cuttings are not very
easily rooted, nor does the plant give an abundance of material for this
