108 VINES, HARDY AND TENDER.
purpose. But by root cuttings a one-year-old specimen may be made
the parent of a hundred or more plants. To give large and healthy
roots for this purpose, the plants should be planted out early. By the
middle of October the tops are cut off, the roots Hfted and put in boxes
of saud for a few weeks. In preparing for the root cuttings tnke a box,
in the bottom of which put some rough screenings, then 2 inches of tine
soil made very firm; put the pieces of roots (about three-quarters of an
inch in length,) on the surface, then cover with three-quarters of an inch
of coarse grained sand and put in a warm house. When the growths
have made two pairs of leaves put each growth in a 2-inch pot, shifting
into 3-inch pots as they require it.
M. bicolor is apt to run too much to weedy growth during Summer,
especially in the w armer parts of the country. Cuttings of the green
wood root quickly. Those propagated early in September make nice
flowering plants in 4-inch pots for Winter blooming in the cool conser-
vatory.
P/EDERIA FCETIDA — Usually grown as a stove and greenhouse
climber, but it is hardier than is generally supposed. We have old plants
which have stood out in the open border for over 20 years. It is rather
an attractive-looking, but not a free-blooming vine. The leaves, or any
part of the plant, when bruised, emit a most offensive odor. Cuttings
should be put in any time after the growths are matured.
PASSIFLORA INCARNATA is said to be hardy around Philadelphia.
It is one of the most rapid growing species; has large whitish flowers
aad bears seeds abundantly.
P. coerulea is apt to get killed to the ground in Winter north of
Washington. P. Constance Elliott is a white flowered variety, seem-
ingly hardy and more flpriferous than the type. P. Impera trice Eugenie,
P. Innesii, P. Lawsoniana and P. Munroi are good hybrids. Stock
plants will Winter if planted in a frame, the back of which is formed by
the wall of a warm house. These may be propagated from cuttings of
ripe growths any time in late Summer. P. alata and P. quadrangularis
are stove climbers with large, handsome flowers. P. aucuboefolia, a
variety of the last named, has the foliage handsomely marked with
yellowish blotches.
PETREA VOLUBILIS— A greenhouse climber of very irregular growth,
bearing in March and April long racemes of very showy purple flowers.
The calyces are only a few shades lighter in color than the corollas.
This plant should be in every greenhouse collection. It is very suitable
for training up rafters. Cuttings of the dormant wood will root in heat;
the best time to do the work is just before the plants start into growth.
PUERARIA THUNBERGIANA has for several years been distributed
throughout the country under the name of Dolichos japonicus. It is a
hardy, trifoliate-leaved vine, having inconspicuous purplish pea-shaped
flowers, which are seldom produced except on the old wood of well
established plants. The flowers amount to but little, however, in fact,
no one would grow the vine on account of the flower display. It is the
