VINES, HARDY AND TENDER. 109
rapidity withi which the vine will cover space which has made it a favor-
ite with those who have given it a trial. It is, without doubt, the most
rapid growing hardy vine in cultivation, and is useful either for cover-
ing the ground, for trellis work, and especially for hiding unsightly
structures. Propagation is brought about by cuttings. They should
DC put in by the end of August, to enable the plants to make a little
headway so as to stand over Winter safely. The leaves, being large
and soft, should be laid flat on the sand without being shortened back
in any way, and allowing only about 3 inches of stem with each leaf.
Roots are produced from the under part of the stem a short distance
from where the leaf joins. It seldom happens that cuttings root in the
ordinary way, tbat is, from the cut part of the stem, so that they are
ready for potting in a few days after being put in the sand. Good
plants may be had in a short time by layering during August, keeping
the ground moist during the operation.
SENECIO SCANDENS (German Ivy)— A useful soft growing vine with
leaves the shape of the English Ivy (Hedera), Propagate a few plants
in the Autumn, and from these a great number of cuttings may be taken
off early in Spring. The plants are principally used for growing over
the sides of baskets, vases, and also for twining to supports.
SMILAX (MyrsiphyHijm asparagoides)— Old beds of Smilax grown
year after year are rather unsatisfactory, the growths being either too
irregular or weak. The plan which insures a regular growth and allows
the bed in which it is grown to be used for other purposes during a por-
tion of the year, is to raise the plants annually from seed. This should
be sown during February, in a warm house. Put the seedlings in thumb
pots when large enough, shift to 3-inch pots and plant out from this
size after midsummer. The plants will be benefited by a warm atmos-
phere from the seedling stage until ready for cutting.
SOLANUM WENDLANDII— In the Southern States this should prove
a desirable garden vine. The flowers are arranged in cymes from 6 to
10 inches across (bright lilac blue) on the ends of the hanging branches.
In this latitude the seasons are too short for small plants to make much
of a floral display in the open. As a greenhouse climber, however, it
ought to have a place where sufficient room can be devoted to it. Cut-
tings should be made from the short lateral growths, taken about the
end of September.
STIGHAPHYLLON CILIATUM (Butterfly Vine)— The flowers of this
plant are not unlike those of some species of Oncidium, both in form
and color. It is one of our best medium-sized vines for trellis work. For
pot culture it is of little service, and only thrives in the greenhouse when
planted out. September is the best mouth for propagation. On out-
door plants much of the wood is useless for this purpose, being thin and
soft. Choose the growths which were made early in the season; a heel
or a joint is not necessary. Root them in bottom heat, potting in 2-inch
pots, and aiterward in 3-inch pots, in which they will pass the Winter,
TECOMA GRANDIFLORA differs from our native T. radicans in having
very much larger flowers. It makes a very showy vine when in bloom
