112 VINES, HARDY AND TENDER.
late in Summer. A good plan to show off this vine to advantage is to
grow it against a stout support, made of iron or wood, several feet
high, and when it gets to the top encourage it to become bushy by fre-
quent pinching. Propagation is sometimes attempted from portions of
the roots cut into small pieces, but unless certain that the plant is on its
own roots this is a dangerous practice and has resulted in much disap-
pointment, as the resulting plants may turn out to be nothing but the
native T. radicans, on which T. grandiflora is frequently grafted. After
these root cuttings make considerable growth it is quite a difficult mat-
ter to tell whether they are T. grandiflora or the native species, so
closely does the foliage of the two species resemble each other. Those
on roots of T. radicans make plants quicker than from root-cuttings, or
from cuttings of the green or dormant wood. Cuttings of the branches
are a trifle difficult to manage at anj- time, but the ripened growths of
young plants will give the best results, as then the wood is not nearly
so thick and pithy as in old specimens.
THUNBERQIA — This genus includes some very desirable greenhouse
climbers, and at least one species, with several varieties, useful for vases,
baskets, and as a vine of moderate growth for the mixed border. This
is T. alata. Seeds will germinate outside, but to produce early effects
they may be sown indoors early in the season and hardened off with
other soft wooded plants. The best greenhouse species are: T. laurifo-
lia, white and blue flowered; T. fragrans, pure white, and T. mysoren-
sis, purple and yellow. The perennial species may be raised from seeds,
but plants obtained in this way are apt to have a weedy growth and
turn out to be shy in blooming. Cuttings put in about February will
furnish the finest flowering plants.
VITIS HETEROPHYLLA VARIEQATA is a vine of straggling growth,
with very handsome colored foliage. It maj be planted with English or
Boston Ivies to break the monotony of a large expanse of green. The
variegated form comes true from seed; it should be treated in the same
manner as seeds of Ampelopsis. The fruit of Vitis heterophylla is re-
markable in being green, creamy white and purpliHh at different Htages
of growth.
WISTARIA CHINENSIS flowers before the leaves are fully expanded.
Old and floriferous plants have a gorgeous appearauce when in full
bloom, it may be grown as a standard trained to a stout post sunk
in the ground, or as a vine for arbors, etc. There are several varieties
of this species: W. c. flore-pleno having double flowers, W. c. macrobo-
trys, a variety with very long and light-colored racemes. W. frutescens
is a native species, flowering later than the Chinese plant. Propagation
is effected in various ways. The plants, as a rule, set seed freely, but the
seedlings are apt to turn out shy bloomers. Seedlings of W. frutes-
cens may be used as stocks on which to graft W. chinensis and its
forms. The operation should be performed while tlie plants are dor-
mant in March or April. The long growths may also be layered in mid-
summer, allowing them to remain till well established.
