114
Bulbous Plants.
ACHIHENES— The usual method of cultivation is to start the rhi-
zomes from the end of February till the end of April, to give a succession
of bloom. When the plants have made 2 inches of growth they are
placed one by one in a wide shallow pan about 2 inches apart each way,
each growth being staked before plants show bloom. This method means
a great amount of labor. I prefer starting the rhizomes in their last
seasons flowering pans; after making a littleheadway divideinto three
or more equal parts and put into their flowering pans without supports.
The specimens are not so symmetrical as those which are staked, but
they give a satisfactory quantity of bloom and are most useful for the
conservatory during the Summer months.
For growing in suspended baskets in the greenhouse the older kinds
are well suited. Use wire baskets, and with started plants build them
in from the bottom upwards so that the sides will be clothed with them.
The Achimenes do not need a very warm place for storage. During
their resting season clip off the stems to within an inch or two of the
pot instead of wrenching them out, as the rhizomes are easily torn out
with them. Stand the receptacles on their sides in a dry part of a cold
house. No water will be required till Spring.
AMARYLLIS (Hippeastrum)— These beautiful plants are not as much
grown as their merits deserve; this is partly because the finer kinds are
somewhat expensive, especially when flowering bulbs are purchased.
With a few good sorts to start with they may be increased, and even
new varieties raised much more rapidly in America than in Europe, as
our Summers are very favorable to their rapid growth and increase by
offsets. Seeds are produced quite freely, and from this method of prop-
agation flowering plants are raised with little trouble. Most of the
very numerous hybrids now in cultivation are the progeny of A. vittata
and A. Ackermanni. There are two methods of culture— growing in
pots all the year round, and growing them during Summer planted out
in the open, lifting and potting in the Fall. I much prefer the first
method for the production of the largest sized blooms. Few flowers
are more attractive than those of the Amaryllis; they are borne in
umbels on stout scapes well above the foliage. The colors are princi-
pally crimson, blood red and white, some of the varieties being beauti-
fully striped and mottled. Their season of blooming is generally from
January to May. About the beginning of the year the pot-grown bulbs
which are dormant should be removed from the pots and repotted in
good, rich compost; at first water only to settle the soil, gradually
increasing the supply. Some bulbs will show flowers early; these, if
wanted in bloom quickly, will be forced along with a minimum tempera-
ture of 60 degrees. By giving too high a temperature the foliage is
