11 n BULBOUS PLANTS.
weakened, and it must be borne in mind that the plants make their prin-
cipal growth for the season after the flowers are past, so that too early
forcing is apt to endanger the health of the bulb. After blooming, the
pot plants should be kept in an open frame till the end of September,
with some loose material, such as stable litter, between the pots to pre-
vent too rapid evaporation of moisture; feed them frequently with
liquid manure. A deep frame heated so as to exclude frost will be found
the best place for the pot plants during the resting season. By the end
of May bulbs may be planted out-of-doors. A border sloping to the
south should be chosen. Immediately after planting give a heavy
mulching of manure, and to insure continuous growth keep them well
watered during dry spells, otherwise, when the time comes for lifting
the plants, some will be at rest, others in full vigor of growth. In the
latter case the transfer to the flower pot cannot be effected without
detriment to the bulbs; the roots are large, preventing a suitable quan-
tity of soil being given while using a pot within a reasonable size.
Raising Plants from Seeds— The seed will mature on pot-grown
plants about the end of July. Sow as soon as gathered. The seeds do
not require much covering, and ought to be kept in a warm atmosphere,
not only while germinating, but until the plants are at least a year old,
during which time they should be kept in a growing state.
Propagation by Offsets— These may be separated from the pot plants
during the operation of potting, or taken from the old bulbs when lift-
ing in the open border in Autumn. In the latter case they may be stored
for the Winter in boxes of sandy soil, and either potted off in Spring or
planted out with the larger bulb.
AMORPHOPHALLUS— Useful for sub-tropical bedding, owing to their
very handsome leaves; those of A. Rivieri, the species commonly met
with in cultivation, being between 4 and 5 feet across. The petioles
are necessarily stout and beautifully marbled with creamy white. The
leaves are very much divided. In early Spring the flowers are jn-oduced
before the leaves; they have such an offensive odor that unless seeds are
wanted they should be cut off before developing. Propagation is from
offsets and seeds. The large tubers are wintered in a manner similar to
those of the fancy-leaved Caladiums.
ANEnONE— The tuberous rooted species known as A. coronaria, A.
fulgens, and A. hortensis are all natives of Southern Europe. Wlien planted
permanently the soilshould beopen and well drained, and if itis apt to
bake in Spring give a top-dressing of leaf soil or stable manure thor-
oughly rotted. This will keep the surface soft and enable the growths to
break through easily. The above species are sometimes grown in pots;
they may be planted in September or October, kept in a cold frame and
flowered in Spring. A. fulgens is the most useful for this purpose. The
many varieties are sold cheaply by dealers in bulbs.
BULBOUS PLANTS— This term is generally applied indiscriminately
to plants having thickened subterranean stems, such as Crocus and
Gladiolus, including true bulbs, such as those of Lillum, Hyacinth and
Allium. A true bulb is simply a resting bud composed of leaf scales, as
