BULBOUS PLANTS. 117
iu Lilium, or partly formed by the bases of the leaves of the previous
seasons growth, as in the Hyacinth and Onion. A Corm differs from a
bulb in having the interior part solid; examples, Crocus and Gladiolus.
A tuber is a swollen underground stem provided with latent buds, as in
the Potato. The thickened tuber-hke roots of the Dahlia are simply
reservoirs of nutriment, and are known as tubercles. Terrestrial
Orchids supply numerous other examples.
CALADIUM, FANCY=LEAVED-There are several species and a great
many forms of these gaudy foliage plants. They are principally used to
fill the benches of the conservatory during the Summer mouths, when
most of the usual greenhouse plants are occupying their Summer quar-
ters out of doors. They are also used in bedding, and if the higher
colored forms are avoided, choosing those in which green and red pre-
dominate in the leaves, they will succeed well even in the full sun. A
goodly quantity of bone meal worked into the soil before planting will
make strong and well-colored leaves.
Starting Tubers— The first lot of tubers should be started about the
middle of February for conservatory decoration. They should first be
gone over carefully, and any that show signs of rotting at the bottoms
should have the decayed part cut or scraped off and dusted with pow-
dered charcoal. The under part of a Caladium tuber, after it has
reached a certain size, is more or less in a state of decay, but sometimes,
through being kept too wet, too dry, or in a too cold place, this natural
decay is hastened by rot, which, if not checked, will kill the tuber in a
short time. The white succulent roots start from the top part or neck
of the tuber, near the base of the leaf-bud, so this part must be covered
and kept in an evenly moist state to start them into growth. I find the
best conditions under which to start growth to be as follows: Take a
box 3 inches deep, put half an inch of moss in the bottom; put in the
bulbs close enough together so that at least half the space will be occu-
pied, then cover with moss to the top of the box. Have the moss
chopped so that the particles will fall easily from the roots previous to
potting. This operation may best be done when the roots are from one
to two inches long. A good soil should consist largely of leaf mould. As
the tubers send out their roots shortly after putting in the moss they
should be transferred to pots before the roots get too long, else they
will be injured in the operation. Pots should not be used of a size larger
than will hold the tubers and roots comfortably, without danger of
being bruised. The subsequent shifts should have a greater quantity of
loam with rotted cow manure added. For specimen plants do not cut
up the tuber;*, plant them whole. At the end of the season, as a rule,
they will have made quite as many easily detached tubers as if they had
been cut up in the Spring.
C. argyrites— The small-leaved kind called C. argyrites will be all the
more useful if not started too early, as it is most needed late in the
year. It keeps well among sawdust in paper bags. The tubers are so
small that several hundred can be put iu a small bag. The tubers can
be increased at almost any time, even when the plants are in full growth,
