— l8 bulbous plants.
but preferably about the starting time, either before or after. They are
cut up into pieces, each one with a bud or growth to it.
Preparations for Lifting Tubers— By the beginning of October, and
earlier in some localities, fancy-leaved Caladiums will soon begin to lose
their bright colors, owing to the low temperature. Before this occurs
go over them and renew the names, using fresh labels. If they are with-
out names go over them all the same, jotting down the colors of the
leaves, and whether certain kinds should be used again and so forth.
All this is very necessary with the Caladiura, as it is a coming bedding
plant. I have not yet come to the conclusion whether it is best to plant
them in the dormant state like Gladioli, or to start indoors before
planting, I used to favor the latter method, mainly because there was
something to look at as soon as planted. Some beds which 1 saw lately,
owing to the splendid growth made from dormant tubers at planting
time, spoke volumes in favor of this method. It certainly saves the
time given to the starting and potting indoors. But again, more money
can be got out of a plant, with its beautiful leaves, started in a H-inch
pot than can be got for a mere tuber that has no more beauty to it
than a potato.
Storing the Tubers — Outdoor plants as they lose their leaves should
be dug up and laid under the bench of a house where the sun w^ont get
at them. Give water occasionally to both roots and foliage until the
latter gradually decays. After the leaves are cut off and the tubers are
dry, put as many as will go into a fair-sized pot, then run in dry sand
and stand the pots in the warmest part of the house, where they will be
free from drip. They should be kept in a temperature not lower than
60 degrees during the Winter. Plants in pots will soon begin to look
** seedy unless they be kept in a warm, close house. To rest them,
withhold water gradually, and when the leaves are nearly gone, remove
the pots to the driest and warmest part of the house, placing the pots
on their sides. If room cannot be spared the plants may be knocked out
of the pots and stored like the outdoor collection.
Propagation — Many of the kinds form small tubers on the sides of the
large ones; these are easily detached and grown on. Again, many sorts,
especially some of the finer and recently introduced varieties, do not
make these small tubers, or not in large enough numbers to be of much
service; but it will usually be found that the large tubers have one or
more eyes generally at the sides. These, if taken off with a piece of the
tuber attached, either before or after starting, will make small plants
the same season. In separating from the parent tuber dust the cut sur-
faces with powdered charcoal, to prevent decay. If taken off before the
tubers are started, put the pieces in warm sand to hasten the formation
of roots.
Caladium odoratum or Colocasia odorata is used much in the same
manner for outdoor decoration in Summer as the well-known Colocasia
esculenta. They are known from each other by C. odorata having thick
fleshy stems above ground and the leaves pointing upward, or at
least growing with the leaf blade horizontal, while C. esculenta has
drooping leaf blades, and has no stem above ground. They are both
