120
BULBOUS PLANTS.
wintered in the same way, that is, in a dormant condition, in a warm
place, although C.odorata can easily be kept over Winter with the roots
of the previous Summer preserved and the foliage green by storing the
stems thickly together in boxes, keeping on the youngest leaves when
lifted and storing plants in a fairly warm house, giving water occasion-
ally. Well furnished plants can be had quicker from the stems of this
than from those of C. esculenta. The propagation of C. odorata should
be attended to during February. Cut up the long stems into pieces with
a dormant eye to each piece, dust them over with powdered charcoal to
prevent decay, and lay them in the sun to dry for a day or so; after-
ward put in moss, not too wet, in a warm frame, where they will sprout
much in the same manner as stove Aloeasias. Pot as soon as the roots
are sufficient in number.
CONVALLARIA HAJALIS-Lily of the Valley pips used in this country
for forcing purposes aie obtained from abroad. There is, however, no
reason why they should nut be produced as good in the United States.
Lily of the Valley thrives in someparts very luxuriantly, when grown in
the shade of small trees with an annual top-dressing of decayed leaves or
old manure. The pips are received during the early part of November,
and the florist who can raise bloom successfully^ from these before Christ-
mas does not need to be told anything of the plants culture. At that
time, however, good roots are obtainable from the previous years sup-
ply, kept in cold storage. Or home-grown material may, in time, be
used, as then preparation could be made earlier with greater certainty
of success in early blooming. Lily of the Valley is a decidedly artificial-
looking flower when unaccompanied by its foliage. A stock of small
pips should be put in the forcing house and given plenty time to develop
the foliage for occasions when wanted. The material in which to place
the pips may be pure sand, as no new roots are made during the forcing
period. W^hen taken from a temperature near the freezing point, increase
it very gradually until a bottom heat of from 80 to 85 degrees is given
for the actual work of forcing. The pips may be kept almost in the
dark at first, gradually giving light as they develop; but keep them
shaded from the sun. In storing pips for the Winter keep them in a
frame, with a northern exposure, so that rapid thawing and freezing
may be obviated. There are double flowered and variegated-leaved
forms; all of them are desirable for half-shaded places in the open border.
CRINUM— The tender species are not much grown indoors, but there
are several which are useful for the hardy border. One which gives
much satisfaction in Washington, and which is perfectly hardy, is named
C. longifolium. The flowers are tinged with rose. There is a white-
flowered form. Nearly every flower will set seeds which are very large
and irregular in shape. They should be sown as soon as ripe, as after
falling to the ground a little moisture will cause them to germinate in a
few days. Sow the seeris 2 inches apart in a seed pan; keep in a frame,
and plant out without potting off in Spring.
C. Powellii is a hybrid between C. longifolium and C. Moorei. It
thrives in Washington with slight protection in Winter. C. Moorei is
also hardy when planted in warm soils and slightly protected. In large
