BULBOUS PLANTS. 121
conservatories C. giganteum should be grown if only for the foliage.
The leaves are several feet in length, fully 6 inches broad in adult speci-
mens, and of a bright green color. The flowers are pure white and
sweet smelling, produced at irregular intervals.
EUCHARIS AMAZONICA— The Amazon Lilies have long been popular
stovH bulbous plants, their large, pure white flowers making them favor-
ites wherever grown. To the florist who does a general trade this is a
paying plant when properly grown in moderately large quantities.
Their culture seems a trifle difficult to many, but this idea has arisen
through trying to grow them under adverse conditions. They are plants
which deligbt in a warm, moist atmosphere, shaded from strong sun-
shine. The temperature should never fall below 60 degrees, and it
should only be allowed to get in the neighborhood of that figure during
cold weather. The plants cannot be properly grown after the manner
of most bulbous subjects which florists handle, such as Liliums, Richar-
dias. Gladioli, Tulips, etc.; that is, potting them up at a certain time
to have them in bloom at a given date. Their culture has not been
brought down to such a fine point because their nature does not permit
of it. They can be grown either with or without a short period of rest
in the Fall months. I prefer to keep them growing all the time; but to
do this successfully the roots must have close attention. From the
nature of the compost in which they grow it will become sodden if extra
precautions are not taken in the way of providing good drainage, also
in mixing with the soil a goodly quantity of broken char^oal to keep
the mass porous. The principal ingredients should consist of loam two
parts, leaf mould one, a fourth to consist of rough sand and well-rotted
cow manure. There are three kinds in general cultivation — E. grandi-
flora, E. Candida and E. Sanderiana. The first is the best known of the
three, and the most profitable to grow, as the individual flowers are
larger and more of them are produced on a stalk. They are grown in
pots, tubs, or on benches. 1 prefer the first two methods, as the plants
can be more easily handled than when on benches. A good-sized clump
can be kept in a 10 or 12-inch pot for a good many years by periodical
examinations of the drainage, the decomposed soil removed from
around the ball with the aid of the hose, and a mixture of loam and
bone meal dusted over it. Put back in the pot and give a good top-
dressing. Clumps treated in this way have flowered with me three and
four times in a year regularly for 12 years.
FORCING BULBS, such as Tulips, Hyacinths (Roman) and Narcissus,
are put in shallow boxes for forcing. The bulbs are inserted quite close
together, if of the poorer grades; but if they are the largest sizes a little
more room should be allowed for the development of the flowers. The
soil used is generally old material from benches in which Roses or Car-
nations have been growing. In preparing bulbs for forcing the princi-
pal point to be borne in mind is that they must make roots before being
put in heat. A place should be set apart for the boxes, where they may
be covered with about 8 inches of sifted ashes. On the approach of
freezing weather the ashes may be kept in a condition so that the boxes
may be removed when wanted, by covering with rough stable litter; or,
