BULBOUS PLAX7\S. 123
when grown in large quantities, a bulb house should be provided. In
this structure light should be excluded and the roof thick enough to
keep out frost. In a well-regulated house the bulbs remain in fine con-
dition. They may be kept almost dormant for several weeks and be
forced into bloom in less time than those from the open ground. Paper
White Narcissus and Eoman Hyaiinths may easily be had in bloom in
November, and Due Van Thol Tulips by Christmas; but to insure these
results early rooting must be looked after.
ROHAN HYACINTHS IN PANS— Roman Hyacinths are usually grown
in boxes, and when about to flower, or even when in bloom, they are
taken out of the box and placed in shallow pans or pots, new soil added
and perhaps covered with fern moss before being exposed for sale. This
method does not turnout satisfactorily to the buyer, the flowers lasting
but for a short period. By employing the shallow flats in common use
for Ferns, Roman Hyacinths may be grown to even greater perfection in
spbagnum moss than where soil is used. A little well rotted manure
among the moss does good. Fill up to near the brim with moss, place
the bulbs on this as thick as they will go, if the receptacle is small; give
more room, if large; fill in intervening spaces with moss, saturate the
moss, and to make roots, keep in a dark, cool place. As soon as a suffi-
cient quantity of roots are made bulbs are forced into flower in a few
days and come in very handily about Christmas, when other flowering
plants are scarce. While making roots they should occupy a cool frame,
and be covered with damp leaves.
Outdoor Bulbs— Hyacinth and TuHp bulbs flowered out-of-doors
may be made to last more than one season if the bulbs are given a little
care. By the end of May, when the bulbs have to be lifted to make room
for Summer plants, the foliage will indicate maturity by turning yellow.
Aftpr lifting the bulbs should not be allowed to lie around with the old
leaves rotting over them, sometimes wet, at other times dry, according
to the weather. Spread them out on boards in an airy shed, so that
they may have a chance to get plump and dry; after which they should
be cleaned, stored, and when the time arrives replanted for outdoor
ornamentation. Low-growing hardy Spring bulbs, such as Galanthus
(Snowdrop), Crocus, Scilla prcecox, Tecophilsea cyanocrocus, Triteleia
uuiflora, Puschkinia and Chionodoxa, should be planted as soon as they
are procured from the dealers. If put in late they bloom late and their
foliage does not get time to ripen before the advent of real warm
weather, and the bulb for the following season is next to useless. None
of the latter is much used by florists for pot culture. In planting out
they should, if possible, be given permanent positions. Sometimes Fall
and Winter weather is favorable to premature growth of the tops, and
because of this they should be protected from rapid thawing and freez-
ing bv a covering of an inch or two of half-decayed leaves or manure
put on after freezing weather arrives.
FREESIAS which are wanted to bloom by the end of the year should
be potted or boxed as soon as they can be procured from the dealers.
Plunge the pots in ashes, in a frame, where strong sunshine wont keep
the surface of the soil too warm and dry. They must not be covered
