BULBOUS PLANTS. 125
over as other bulbs are after potting, as the leaves are thin and tender
and must develop to a considerable extent before the floveer stems make
their appearance.
GLADIOLUS— Bulbs of these used to be imported; they are now
grown in great Quantitiss in this country. Most of the kinds grown are
of hybrid origin, and not a few of them have originated in America.
With florists the plants are cultivated for the sake of the flowers. The first
crop is usually grown indoors by planting the bulbs during January or
February. They are usually planted among Carnations, the long nar-
row leaves of the Gladiolus giving but little shade. For outdoor crops
they may be planted in batches from April onward. To have the
bulbs in good condition for use the following year the ground should be
well mulched as soon as the growths are well above ground. Cultivat-
ing is then not necessary and the weeds likely to smother the plants
may be removed by hand.
QLORIOSA SUPERBA and Q. PLANTII are ornamental flowered lilia-
ceous plants, very suitable for our hot Summers. The plants have a
vine-like growth and must be supported by sticks. They are servicea-
ble for the embellishment of greenhouses during Summer. In the District
of Columbia they do well out-of-doors. To raise bulbs sow a few seeds
in a G inch pot and allow them to remain in their seed pots for the Sum-
mer, gradually drying off as the foliage turns yellow. Store with Glox-
inias during the Winter. Each plant may be potted off singly the fol-
lowing Spring.
H/^MANTHUS — A genus principally of South African bulbous plants;
they are all of easy culture. Those which annually lose their foliage
produce their beautiful flowers before the new leaves make their appear-
ance. To develop the foliage the plants may be treated much in the
same way as Amaryllis; that is, planted out in a sunny border, mulched
with half-rotted manure and given water during dry weather. They
are good plants, but only useful for general collections.
IRIS — Some of the tuberous rooted species are verj^ early in bloom-
ing, and only need a short term in the greenhouse to bring them into
flower after the end of January. I. fllifolia and I. Histrio are two of the
best. The tubers should be procured as early as possible, and put in
shallow boxes to root. The surfaces should be covered while in the
frame with a thin layer of sphagnum moss. I. reticulata, a species
which blooms in the open border, very often before the snow is gone, is
valuable for forcing in 5-inch pots. The flowers are dwarf and not very
large; the foliage is of a grassy nature. From four to six tubers should
be put in each pot. The flowers of this species, which are deep purple,
have a fragrance much resembling that of the common Violet. There
is a lighter colored form called I. r. Krelagei; this, however, has no
fragrance.
LACHENALIAS— By the 1st of August Lachenalia bulbs should be
knocked out of the pots, the sizes sorted and the largest put, say four
together, in a 5-inch pot, and plunged for the time being among ashes in
a frame. The smaller bulbs should be potted or boxed for growing on.
