Stove and Greenhouse Plants
ABUTILON— Several of the varieties having ornamental foliage, such
as A. Darwini tesselatum, A. Sellowianum marmoratum, A. vexillarium
and Eclipse, are good bedding plants. The last two are useful for vases
and boxes. All of them have the leaves blotched with yellow. Souvenir
de Bonn and Savitzii are variegated with white. Cuttings are rooted in
the Fall, or may betaken in early Spring from lifted and cut back plants.
The varieties grown for their flowers are numerous; the colors are pink,
red, white and yellow. They are everblooming.
ACACIA — Seedling Acacias are not to be recommended for small
flowering plants, on account of their lanky growth. Not only are plants
from cuttings most floriferous, but they are easier trained to any desired
shape. They should be taken from the half-ripened shoots during the
month of June. A peatty soil mixed with half sand should be used, as
the roots will take nourishment from it immediately they are formed.
Make the cuttings with a sharp knife and take off the leaves from the
part which is to go in the soil with a small pair of sharp scissors. The
pots for rooting the cuttings in should be prepared carefully— rough
crocks in the bottom and finer above, until they are filled to within two
inches of the rim. The remaining space should be filled with finely sifted
peat and sand in equal parts topped off with pure sand. Dibble in the
cuttings to the depth of about an inch and not too crowded. They
must be kept close during the operation of rooting, and as cool as
possible. The pots, which may be plunged in sand, should be covered
with a movable glass structure. A good plan is to have two sets of
those hand-light or bell-glasses, and instead of wiping the moisture
from them daily, remove the wet ones and slip over them those which
are dry. After the first watering the cuttings will take but little more
during the process of rooting; when they do require it the foliage should
be allowed to dry before putting back the covers. Acacia Kiceana is
perhaps the finest greenhouse species for very large plants. A. pubes-
cens, A. Drummondi and A. paradoxa are all good greenhouse species,
flowering well on moderate-sized specimens. Sandy loam, to which a
goodly quantity of leaf soil or peat is added, will suit them. Firm pot-
ting and good drainage are necessary. Plunge the plants outside dur-
ing Summer, and give liberal supplies of water when the plants are well
established.
ACALYPHA HISPIDA — Large plants in pots are speedily produced by
using a goodly quantity of bone meal in the soil. Grow in a high tem-
perature. If tall plants are wanted, keep nipping out the flower spikes
as they appear in the axils of the leaves. When the plant reaches the
desired height nip out the ends of the shoots; this will cause branching.
AGAPANTHUS UMBELLATUS— The African blue Lily is a desirable
prant for cool greenhouses, and ornamental either in or out of bloom.
In general appearance it resembles the Imantophyllum, but the flowers
