126 BULBOUS PLANTS.
These bulbs are not common and should be more grown, not for cut-
ting, as the flowers are not suitable for this purpose, but for pot plants.
The leaves, even by themselves, are very attractive, being broad, rich
green, and spotted with brown. The flowers are greenish red and yel-
low, arranged in spikes. Small bulbs should always be saved and
grown on, as they Increase in size quickly under cultivation.
LILIUM— Many species and varieties of Lilium are grown for Ihe or-
namentation of the border in Summer and Autumn. As a rule, they pre-
fer light soil enriched with old manure, and a position partially shaded
from the sun. To lessen the necessity of frequent watering the plants
should be well mulched after the growths are a few inches high. The
species used so much for forcing in pots is knowm as L. longiflorum, a
native of China and Japan. There are at least two varieties; the b st
known and quickest in blooming being L. 1. Harrisii, said to have come
originally from Japan, but largely grown in Bermuda, whence the bulbs
are obtained. The bulbs should be potted as soon as procurable, and
plunged in a frame with a bottom of silted cinders; the plunging mate-
rial should be cocoanut fiber, leaf soil, or thoroughly-rotted hotbed
material. This precaution works well in maintaining an equal state of
moisture in the pots without the necessity of frequent waterings. To
prevent the sun drying the surface of the soil enough covering of loose
stable litter should be given. Remove the plants indoors on the
approach of severe weather. For early forcing the pots may be placed
directly on the bench of a cool greenhouse, and precautions taken to
keep the soil in an equably moist state, avoiding either extreme. These
bulbs should also be covered with some light material to prevent bak-
ing. The pots used should be small enough, so as to provide for a shift
into 6 and 7-inch sizes as the plants require it. Much better results are
thus obtained, because roots are formed on the stem of the Lily above
the bulb, and often above the soil, w^hen they are planted directly into
their flowering pots, and especially when they are planted with the tops
of the bulbs level with the surface of the soil. So it will be seen that a
shift given after the plants have made considerable headway will work
advantageously in supplying new rooting material, not only for the
roots already formed in the soil, but for those forming on the stem
above it. In potting put one large piece of broken pot, concave side
down, over the hole in the bottom, and over this some half-decayed
leaves, not moss, as the latter retains too much moisture at the bottom
of the pot; ram the soil moderately firm. The soil should have good,
fibry loam, enriched to about one-fifth of its bulk with well-rotted stable
manure; this, with the addition of some broken-up charcoal, is as much
for the purpose of keeping the soil open as for feeding. The Aphis is one
of the worst enemies of the Lily when grown Indoors, and the condi-
tions favorable to its increase should be guarded against— keeping the
pants in perfect health is the best preventive measure. Some of the
things to be obviated are sudden changes in temperature, chilly
drafts, soil too wet or too dry. Fumigating or vaporizing with
tobacco must frequently be resorted to whenever the Aphis makes its
appearance.
