BULBOUS PLANTS. 127
Preparing Bulbs for Potting— If, as is frequently the case, the bulbs on
arrival are a trifle shrivelled, do not pot them immediately, as they are
apt to get a set-back by so doing. The treatment they get should be
directed to restore the bulb as soon as possible to that condition in
which it was when taken from the soil. This can be done in the follow-
ing manner much more quickly and with better results than when potted
Immediately into soil. A cool, moist propagating house is an ideal
place for the operation. Place the bulbs as close together as they will
go in the moderately wet sand. They may be either covered with sand
for a day or two, without wetting, or covered with papers during the
driest and hottest part of the day, until they get plump and fresh-look-
ing, taking care that they be potted just before the roots break through,
for if potting be done after the roots make their appearance more harm
than good will result. Soil should be used which contains enough mois-
ture, so that on first watering it will not be necessary to give a very
large dose. The pots used should be large enough to accommodate the
bulb and no more. A later shifting should be given as the plants require
it. A mass of roots will be developed just above the pot when consider-
able growth has been made; these when covered with soil in the second
potting will be found to be valuable feeding roots.
L. Speciosum— At the season when Roses and Carnations are
scarce, both in and out of the greenhouse, a grand substitute may be
found in the Japanese lily, Lilium speciosum. It is one of the best, if
not the very best, so far as graceful structure of flower is concerned,
being far ahead of the popular variety of L. longiflorum in this respect
L. speciosum was introduced from Japan over 60 years ago; it wae
then erroneously called Lilium lancifolium, a name by which it is still
known in many places. It may be statedjfor guidance in the cultivation
ol this Lily that it is perfectly hardy here in well-drained light soil, that
is, on raised rock-work; but unless the bulbs are lilted at intervals of
two years and immediately replanted in freshly worked soil, with
manure added, they get smaller and smaller, ultimately dying from
starvation. For pot cultivation and to bloom early in Summer Lilium
speciosum it is one of the easiest to manage, but less trouble will
be experienced by planting out in raised beds, giving the necessary
protection from severe and late frosts in localities where those con-
ditions exist. The species is extremely variable in form and color of
flower, color of stems, foliage, buds, and even in the anthers. Among
the whites, L. s. KraBtzeri, imported direct from Japan, is one of the
finest. This variety has greenish stripes down each of the six divisions
of the flower; the anthers are brown. L. s. album-novum has larger
flowers, with bright yellow anthers. L. s. album, grown in Europe,,
gradually becomes tinged with pink. L. s. punctatum has white flowers
dotted with pink. The principal pink or carmine forms are L. roseum
rubrum; others are Liliums Schrymakersi, cruentum, purpureum, pur-
puratum, magnificum and superbum. The natural period for blooming
outside, according to locality, is from the end of July till September. A
variety called L. Melpomene, which sometimes gets to be 6 feet high,
was raised by the late Mr. Hovey, of Boston, many years ago. It was
