128 BULBOUS PLANTS.
eaid to be a hybrid between Liliums speciosum aud auratum; it has
larger flowers than any of the varieties of L. speciosum, but, with us, it
is very unreliable when left outside, going off suddenly without any
apparent cause, while both Liliums speciosum and auratum alongside
do well. L. lougiflorum is perfectly hardy, when planted late and with
L. candidum should be grown for Summer flowers. L. auratum is often
unsatisfactory, failing to start well from imported bulbs. It is of little
service as a cut flower, but probably the finest species of the genus for
the open border. As many as 50 large flowers are frequently produced
in a season from a single bulb.
NARCISSUS POETICUS is the most useful of the late blooming species
for outdoor cutting. It should be given a permanent place in the open
ground, as it usually does not deteriorate, but in suitable soil rather the
reverse. The bulbs are procurable in large quantites at low rates, and
it ought to be taken into consideration that they flower yearly in the
open field and increase to such an extent under fairly good treatment,
that the bulbs which fill a given space this year will in four years fill six
times the space. N. p. recurvus is the best oi the single forms, but other
kinds are sometimes sold for it. The double form is a large and hand-
some flower, of which we see too little. They should be lifted every
second or third year, as soon as the bulbs are ripe (where cultivated on
a large scale they are lifted every season,) the sizes sorted and immedi-
ately replanted, the ground having been well enriched with manure.
Their usual period of flowering here is from May 10th to the 20th. In
well-sheltered, sunny positions they flower much earlier. In order to
utilize space, if the rows are wide enough, stock plants of various things
can be planted between them.
OXALIS — The main batch of Oxalis for Winter flowering should be
potted up by the middle of October. Put a single bulb in each pot,
using 3-inch pots to start with, and shifting on the plants as they need
it until they are in 5 or (3-inch pots, in which they bloom. When several
bulbs are potted together in a large pot, at first they are certain to pro-
duce foliage in abundance and but few flowers. By the middle of June
the bulbs will be dried off ; this is accomplished by withholding water and
turning the pots on their sides. Be careful to place them so that the soil
is exposed to view, as mice are exceedingly fond of the bulbs. All of the
kinds grown for their flowers in Winter are very prolific in the produc-
tion of new bulbs, that is, if sufficient root room has been given for
their perfect development during the growing period. Home-grown
bulbs are very superior to those imported. Some of the best kinds are
(). cernua, yellow; O. Bowiei, O. gigantea and O. hirta-rosacea, pink;
O. versicolor and O. lactiflora, white. O. rubricaulis is desirable not so
much for the flowers as for the highly colored red stems. O. Bowiei and
O. versicolor are well suited for baskets, for hanging in conservatories.
The last named requires very little heat.
POLIANTHES TUBEROSA (Tuberose)— These are grown largely for
supplying white flowers during Summer and Fall months. They may
