130 BTLBOUS PLANTS.
be put in the ground after danger from frost is past, and at later inter-
vals to give a succession of flowers. The finest bulbs are supplied so
cheaply by American growers, that it does not pay to propagate in
small quantities.
RICHARDIA ETHIOPICA (Calla) which are out of service should
have the water gradually withheld from them, and as the foliage dies
down turn the pots on their sides and leave them in this position until
the time arrives for starting into growth in Autumn. The pots should
not be put in a place were the sun will have full plaj on them. For in-
creasing the stock of the yellow varieties they should be grown all
Summer; plant them outside in rich, vr ell-drained situations where they
can be vratered abundantly when occasion requires it. All of them are
easily raised from seeds. In Winter they need a minimum temperature
of 60 degrees. By the middle of September the largest sizes of R. aethi-
opica should be in 6 and 7-inch pots and placed in an open frame. Have
the sash handy so that they may be protected during wet w^eatlier.
Y.Mth a good watering at first they wont need much moisture till good
roots are formed. At least one third of rotted cow manure should be
in the soil.
TRILLIUM— About a dozen species of these beautiful and interesting
native plants are in cultivation. T. grandiflorum is the one most com-
monly grown, owing to its very large white flowers. Its culture is of
the simplest description, requiring a half-shaded position with abun-
dance of vegetable humus in the soil. It is sometimes grown in pots for
early forcing, for which purpose it is well adapted. The rhizomes should
be potted as soon as the plants are at rest, late in Summer, and plunged
in a cool frame until wanted. With very little heat they will flower
several weeks in advance of their usual time.
VALLOTA PURPUREA— A very useful plant, either for the greenhouse
jrthe window garden, but not of much service to the florist, as it
flowers at a period when the demand for cut flowers is not very great.
As the bulbs will last in the same pots for several years, the drainage
should be carefully arranged, and the soil mixed with crushed bone.
During growth occasional waterings with manure should be given.
The flowers are reddish scarlet, several in an umbel; in appearance some-
what like those of an Amaryllis. The foliage is evergreen, but during
the resting season the supply of water should be curtailed.
Propagation— The Vallota has a very curious method of making
young plants which I do not remember to have seen described any-
where. These young plants are produced to such an extent that the
process tends to curtail the flowering propensities of the larger bulbs if
attention be not given in the matter of removing them. In course of
time they form two colonies, one on each side of the parent bulb. The
bases of the leaves forming the bulb have each a small bud-like growth
