135
Ornamental Grasses*
ANDROPOQON SCH/ENANTHUS (Lemon Grass)— The leaves of this
plant when bruised emit a fragrance much resembling that of the Lemon
Verbena. It is a tender evergreen. When planted out in Summer the
growth is very rapid even in dry soils. As a pot plant it has a very
ornamental appearance, and stands well in a dwelling house. It is prop-
agated by division at any time of the year. The pieces should be
placed in wet sand for a few days previous to potting to encourage new
roots to form.
ARUNDO DONAX— The tallest of our herbaceous grasses, growing
under favorable conditions to a height of 25 feet; flowers late in Sum-
mer. A very ornamental plant for the centers of large beds, or for iso-
lated groups on wide borders or lawns. As it increases very rapidly at
the root the rhizome-like growth may be divided just as the new shoots
make their appearance above the soil; these, when heeled in, may be
transplanted at any time.
A. D. variegata grows only about half the height of the green one—
an exceedingly desirable plant for the hardy border. To propagate,
take the ripe stems and lay them in damp moss or sand; from each
joint one or more buds will start into growth and ultimately take root.
These young plants, when of sufficient s|ze, may be detached from the
parent stem and put in small pots.
BAMBUSA (Bamboo)— There are one or two species grown in green-
houses and several hardy ones. B. arundinacea will grow (iO feet high
in a single season. It is useful for roomy structures where quick eff rets
are wanted. B. aurea is perfectly hardy in Washington, D. C. i lie
growths will reach a height of 15 feet. B. striata is grown indoors in
Winter. The plants will thrive a long time with limited root accomino-
dation. B. virminalis, B. chrysantha, B. punctata, B. nutis and B.
Marliacea sometimes stand the Winter in the open border without losing
their foliage. The leaves of all the hardy Bamboos have tessellated
venation; those of the tender kinds have striated venation. B. tor-
tunei variegata should never be placed where it will crowd other plants
as it spreads rapidly and is difficult to eradicate. Propagation is best
effected by division. The pieces should be started Into growth among
sand, in a close cool frame, potting off the rarer kinds when a few^ new
roots have been made.
CYPERUS ALTERNIFOLIUS is useful either as a house plant or for plant-
ing out in Summer. Its propagation is much quicker accomplished by
leaves than from seed in the following manner: Get a piece of zinc, or as
manv pieces as may be wanted, of a size, say, 2 feet square; turn up tne
Bides 3 inches ; beat the sides forming the corners together and bend them
