U) STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
are bright blue, a great number of them being produced in an umbel
supported by a long, stout stalk. The Agapanthus is one of those
plants which have the appearance of doing well with cramped root
room, so there is a temptation when potting other things to leave the
plants for another year; but this practice is carried on at the expense of
the magnificent heads of flowers, which get smaller and smaller until a
season goes by without any being produced. This species sometimes
stands the Winters at Washington, D. C, in sheltered positions. There
are several varieties — the white, double-flowered and the variety with
variegated leaves being the most conspicuous.
AGATH/EA CCELESTIS— A cool greenhouse, low-grownng shrub with
blue, daisy-like flowers produced principally in Winter. Cuttings should
be taken from the soft wood in Fall and Spring. It will stand full sun
at all seasons.
AGAVE AflERICANA and its variegated forms, together with several
other more or less ornamental species, are much cultivated in pots and
tubs. They grow best in rather poor but well-drained soil, and are
increased by seeds and offsets. The flowering period of adult specimens
is hastened by keeping them in a pot-bound state. On the other hand,
growth of foliage is accelerated by giving abundant root room.
ALLAflANDAS— Among the select flowering plants for temporary or
permanent use in tubs we must include the large flowering allamandas
known as cathartica Schottii and grandiflora. They will thrive in
shade or sun; Where a little shade is available the flowers naturally last
longer. The flowers are large, almost the size of the moonflower, but
more lasting, the shoots ramble over the sides of the tubs. Procure
some young plants in the beginning of May and a little later plant in
the open to make growth for cuttings. After cutting them back for
propagation lift and pot, partly resting them for the Winter. For Im-
mediate effect after planting out start early in the Spring; one plant to
a tub, among other things, is sufficient. The best upright growing
species is named Williamsii, a grand plant either for boxes, tubs or for
bedding out; it is easily propagated in the Fall from ripe cuttings.
The larger flowered kinds, when represented by large plants, are very
desirable for isolating on a lawn. A good, rich, light soil is necessary,
and if a tub is used for the plant put enough drainage in the bottom so
that the plant when knocked out of the pot will rest on the drainage.
Ram the soil flrmly around the ball, shorten back the strong growths
and stand the plants in a partly shaded spot, syringing frequently. In
a few weeks time, the kinds grown under the names Wardleana, Hen-
dersoni and Schottii, will give an abundant display of their wide,
trumpet-shaped, yellow flowers. When trained near the roof of a warm
greenhouse they may be had in bloom the greater part of the Winter
months. In fact, they can be so managed as to have them bloom at
any time of the year, by first resting the plants, pruning back and
encouraging the root growth. Cuttings of the ripe wood will root in a
warm propagating house at any season.
ALOCASI A— Although among the most ornamental of stove plants,
none of them can be put to much use outside of these structures. Out
