ORXAMEXTAL GRASSES. 18 7
to one side so as to hold water, fill wth sand and saturate with water.
Get some mature growths, cut off the stalk and shorten the leaves; in-
sert in the sand and keep thoroughly wet. In a warm house they will
send up numerous rooted growths in a short time, which, as they require
it, should be potted and grown on. Young plants such as these can very
easily be divided. I havent had much success with the variegated form
propagated in this way; it is apt to come green. Division suits it better.
DACTYLIS GLOMERATA VARIEQATA— The species grows in waste
places in the Eastern States. The green-leaved plants are weedy in
growth, very floriferous and are iiever grown in gardens. The varie-
gated form seldom produces many flowers, and these, when they appear,
should be removed. It is one of our best low-growing variegated
grasses, much used in some places for bedding. It is readily propagated
by division.
ELVnuS GLAUCUS— A very ornamental species with bluish green
leaves finely striated on the upper surfaces. It reaches a height of
about 2 feet. The habit is inclined to be spreading. In early Spring
the growth is about a foot high when most other ornamental grasses
are just showing. Propagated by division,
ERIANTHUS RAVENNA— This species comes next in size to the
Arundo, frequently growing 10 feet high. The growths are stout, end-
ing with very ornamental flowers, which, if taken in a young state and
dried in the sun, are quite as showy as those of the Pampas plumes.
The plants produce seeds freely; they should be sown in Autumn and
wintered in a cool house. The plant is thoroughly hardy in the District
of Columbia.
EULALIA (Miscanthus) — The variegated forms of E. japouica are
more frequently used than any other ornamental grasses. As isolated
specimens they grow into very symmetrical subjects, the outer leaves of
the clump drooping and almost reaching the ground. There are three
kinds usually cultivated — Eulalia japonica foliis-striatus, E. j. zebrina
and E. univittata. The last named is much more dwarf than the others,
the leaves narrow with a whitish stripe down the middle. They are
natives of Japan. Propagation is effected by division of the crowns,
and should be effected Just as the plants are starting into growth. Ola
clumps will have to be broken up with the aid of a mattock or axe.
They may be divided into pieces small enough to go in a 3-inch pot and
plunged in a frame among ashes, or they may be heeled among sand in
a frame for a couple of weeks or more before potting. They should in
any case be kept close for a few days after being divided, in order to
start fresh roots.
FESTUCA GLAUCA grows only a few inches high, the foliage is of a
bluish green color. It may be divided and replanted during March or
April .
GYNERIUn ARGENTEUM (The Pampas Grass)— During the exception-
ally severe Winter of 1898-1899 we did not lose a single plant of any
of the forms of the Pampas Grasses. None of the plants was protected
