las ORXAMEWTAL GRASSES.
by the usual method of boxes or barrels with the ends knocked out,
placed over the plants and filled with leaves or straw. Propagation
from seed is the usual method, but division of the old plants will be
found more satisfactory. Dig up a large clump in the Fall; chop it up
into pieces small enough to go easily into 6-inch pots. Use stiff loam
and pot firmly, standing the plants under benches; water occasionally
until the beginning of February, when the plants should be removed
from the pots and divided up into the smallest pieces, saving the new
roots as much as possible. Shorten the leaves back to half their length
and put in the sand bed for a couple of weeks to start fresh roots; then
place in 3 or 4-iuch pots, and they will form well-furnished plants in a
short time.
PANICUM VARIEQATUM— A useful little warm house plant, having
leaves striped with white and pink. It will grow in shade or sun, and
is used chiefly for hanging over the sides of baskets, vases and boxes.
Propagated from cuttings in March. The correct name is Oplismenus
Burmanni variegatus.
PAPYRUS ANTIQUORUM— The Papyrus, after being lifted from its
Summer quarters, where the growths made are usually very strong, fre-
quently gets into a half sickly state during the Winter months, from
which it takes it some time to recuperate after being replanted outside.
In Winter the growths are grassy and spindling. By the way, I doubt
very much if the true Cyperus Papyrus is in common cultivation, the
one generally grown under that name being an entirely different species.
However, that is a small matter, as the one commonly grown under
the name of Cyperus Papyrus answers the purpose for which it is used,
quite as well, if not better, than the true species. If the old plants are
taken in hand some time in January, and split up into the smallest
pieces and put in the sand bed of a warm house, they will in a few days
push out fine, healthy roots, and when potted in a mixture of equal
parts of moss, sand and manure, will grow very vigorously and will be
in splendid trim for the planting out season. If it is desired to increase
the stock the young plants, after being in the pots for a few weeks, can
be re-divided and the operation of rooting gone through as at first. In
the absence of a propagating bench a box of sand placed on the hot
water pipes answers the same purpose.
PENNISETUM LONQISTYLUM— Perhaps the finest of our dwarf
grasses, which are grtjvvn principally on account of the very ornamental
character of the flowers. It is usually treated as a halt-hardy annual,
owing to its liability to get Winter-killed. It sometimes survives the
Winters in the District of Columbia, but should always be treated as a
tender subject. Plants raised annually from seeds are satisfactory, if
sown early; but old plants, divided up will give larger pieces, start into
bloom earlier and do not take so much attention as seedlings. The old
plants are wintered anywhere out of the reach of frost. About the
beginning of February cut off the old leaves to wMthin 6 inches of the
crowns; divide into small pieces, trim the roots so that thej- will ulti-
mately go into 3 or 4-inch pots; place the pieces thickly together in
