143
Water Plants.
LIMNOCHARIS HUMBOLDTII— Useful for planting where the water Is
only a few inches deep. The flowers are yellow, about 2 inches in diame-
ter. The plants must be wintered indoors. When grown in shallow
water during Summer it is not necessary to keep them under water dur-
ing Winter. All that is required is to prepare a box of moist loam; put
the plants in this, in rows, close together; give a good watering and
stand the box under the bench of a warm house where it will get a fair
amount of light. They will make a new set of short-stalked leaves ere
long, and remain in good condition for planting out in the Spring.
NELUriBIun— There are at least two species, N. speciosiim and N.
luteum, besides several forms of the first named, differing from it Trinci-
pally in the colors of the flowers. N. speciosum and its forms are the best
for growing in ponds and fountain basins. During Summer they make
very long underground stems, and, on the approach of cold weather,
form thick resting tubers at the ends of which are one or more dormant
buds. Nelumbiums need an abundance of rich soil for their perfect
development. When grown in a cramped space comparatively few
flowers are produced. The flowers are from 8 inches to a foot across-
pink, white, and yellow, in color. They are borne on long, rigid stems
well out of the water. The leaves have an exceedinglj ornamental
appearance, being peltate and standing a considerable distance out of
the water. The first few leaves float on tbe surface, but as the shoots
gain strength they rise 2 and 3 feet above the surface.
Raising Plants from Seed— This is a very certain method of increas-
ing the supply of plants, not only for planting out the same season, but
as a convenient form in which to keep plants for sale. The seeds have a
very hard covering, and before putting them in water this covering
should be pierced either with the point of a knife or by the aid of a file.
A very small opening will suffice in causing them to germinate in a few
days. About the end of March sow fairlj^ thick in a shallow seed pan,
sinking it about 6 inches beneath the surface in a warm tank. After the
seedlings have made the first leaf put each in a 3-inch pot. They can be
planted out of these; or, if necessary, shift into 6-inch pots; in tbese
they will pass the Summer and in the Fall form one or more small
tubers.
Starting Dormant Tubers— Attempts to start the dormant tubers of
Nelumbiums after removal often result in disappointment. The opera-
tion of digging them up and replanting has an effect upon them sufficient
to prevent their breaking into growth with the same certainty that
would have followed had they been left undisturbed. Especially is it a
risky performance to plant out the tubers early in the season. I find it
