14-i WATER PLAXrS.
a very certain method to let the tubers float on the surface of an indoor
tank, or tub, on which the sun has full play; they soon begin to form
roots quite freely, and when put out by the middle of May or beginning
of June, according to locality, they continue to grow very luxuriantly,
making even greater progress than those which have succeeded in start-
ug outside.
Insect Enemies are not numerous : there Is one moth, however, which
causes great trouble, especially in the vicinity of long-established colo-
nies of the American species, N.luteum. This insect deposits its eggs on
the leaves, and on hatching the caterpillars attack the outer edges prin-
cipally, rolling the leaves inward as they develop. Another favorite
point of attack is the stem of the leaf. Beginning at the top the cater-
pillar will eat out the interior part for several inches. In large collec-
tions it is a serious matter to attempt to combat this pest, but where
there are only a few plants hand picking will prevent them doing much
injury.
NYMPH/EA— When anything like fair treatment is given most of the
species and varieties of Nymphseas grow very rapidly and flower abun-
dantly. There are only one or two kinds which are backward in this
respect, and unfortunately they are the most handsome ones of the
genus. N. gigantea, a light blue-flowered species from Australia, and
the rose colored variety of N. alba, are the principal offenders. The
former can be managed but not with the same treatment as is given the
other blue-flowered species. With N. alba rosea the trouble seems to be
caused by our hot Summers. However, there are numerous other species
and many hybrid forms which require much less attention than the
majority of other classes of plants to bring them to perfection. There
are in the neighborhood of 40 kinds to choose from. Of these about
half are tender; the others will stand the Winters successfully if the
crowns are low enough in the water to be out of the reach of frost. Or
if they be grown in places from which the water has to be drawn in
Winter, the plants may be covered with some protecting material. But
the question of just how much cold the various kinds will stand has not
been ascertained. I have had tubs of several kinds frozen solid for six
weeks at a time without injuring the plants in the least.
The tender kinds are divided into two well defined sections— day
blooming and night blooming. In the day blooming section we have N.
gracihs, white; N. scutifolia, N. stellata, with numerous forms ranging
from colors almost blue to deep rose; N. pulcherrima produces flowers
exactly similar to those from plants raised from seed of N. gracilis,
which have evidently been fertihzed by pollen from forms of N. stellata;
N. elegans, a Mexican species, has purplish flowers; N. gigantea, a light
blue-flowered species from Australia, has the largest blooms of all,
sometimes attaining a diameter of 16 inches.
The Night=bIooming section is represented by about ten kinds, the
best known of which are: N. Lotus, N. rubra, N. devoniensis, N.dentata
and N. Sturtevantii. Most of the other sorts are cross-bred forms be-
tween N. Lotus and N. Sturtevantii. All of the tender kinds have thick
