STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 11
of a large number of species and forms, A. metallica, A. Sedenii, A. Tbi-
bautiana, A. Sanderiana and A. macrorhiza variegata are well known.
The two last named are increased by offsets; the others, by cutting up
the succulent stems of old plants. Put the pieces in damp moss, in a
propagating frame, with a temperature of 80 degrees. After sprouting
put them in a potting mixture similar to that given for nepenthes. The
plants must be shaded from the sun at all times, and grown in a mini-
mum temperature of 60 degrees.
ALOYSIA CITRIODORA— The sweet-scented verbena, grows very
strongly when planted out, finishing up the season by covering itself
with myriads of small, insignificant flowers. It is a very popular plant,
on account of its sweet-smelling leaves, being almost identical in this
respect wath those of the lemon grass and Eucalyptus citriodora. Keep
some old plants over Winter; start them early in Spring and root the
growths, as soon as they get enough length to them, in warm sand bed.
AHARYLLIS— See Bulbous Plants.
ANANAS — Ananas Porteana is hardly worth growing for its variega-
tion when we have the splendid variegated forms of the common pine-
apple—A. sativa. In a warm, sheltered place all of the kinds do well
out-of-doors in Summer, where they put on exquisite colorings. If
grown large enough the plants will fruit in the same way as the green-
leaved forms. In fact, it is best to allow them to fruit, as subsequently
they form suckers the more readily. These suckers may be rooted in
sand, not too moist, but very warm. After being potted off and taken
with the soil a little they will stand full sunlight without injury.
ANTHERICUM VARIEQATUM is a good all-round plant for vases, bed-
ding, or potted for window decoration, although for the last-named
purpose it is surpassed by the variety known as A. media picta. If the
plants which were lifted in the Fall are allowed to bloom, and the
flower stalks remain on the plants afterward, a good opportunity to
increase the stock of plants presents itself during February. All along
the flowering stems will be found a crop of small rosettes of leaves
which, if cut off, stems and all, and laid on the sand in the shaded part
of a warm house, will send out roots in a short time. Large clumps of
A. variegatum, which have been hibernating under benches, should be
broken up about the end of January and potted in 3 and 4-inch pots.
They may be placed under benches where the light will strike them for
at least a portion of the day.
ANTHURIUn— The species of this genus are grown either for foliage
or flower. None of them has handsome foliage and showy flowers com-
bined in the same plant. A crystallinum, A. Veitchii and A. Warocque-
anum are very beautiful foliage plants, but the flowers are inconspicu-
ous. On the other hand A. Andreanum, A. ornatum and their numerous
hybrid progeny, together with A. Scherzerianum and varieties, have
rather ordinary -looking leaves; but in each case the inflorescence is ex-
ceedingly attractive. The showy part of the inflorescence is what is
termed the spathe, answering the same purpose as calyx and corolla in
other flowers. Their cultural needs are: temperature, 65 to 85 degrees;
