14H WATIJK PLAXTS.
Victoria Regia— Of this there are two form8—V. R. Kandii and V.
K. Trickeri. The Victorias are grown as annuals, the seeds being
sown about the beginning of January, and kept in water at a
temperature of at least SO degrees. Tlie first leaves are grass-like,
gradually- assuming the peltate form. The young plants should be
encouraged to make all the growth possible before being put out of
doors. In this latitude we plant them out about May 20, and treat
them in every respect like tender Nymphreas. Each plant should get at
least a couple of cartloads of prepared soil, to have the plants at their
best. V. Regia has leaves over 6 feet in diameter. The leaf of V. R.
Randii is much less in diameter, but more turned up at the margins;
that of V. R. Trickeri, in size, is intermediate between the two.
Labels for Water Plants — Labels for pots under the surface of the
water, if of the ordinary wooden kind, only remain in good condition
for a short time, and then the writing becomes obliterated. With the
constantly increasing number of Xymphseas and Nelumbiums, one must
be well acquainted with the names of the species and varieties to tell
them by their leaves, but when in a dormant state it is impossible to
tell some of the kinds from others. A simple method of getting around
this difficulty is to have labels made of strips of sheet copper, with
a number stamped across the top, the number to correspond with a
numbered list of the species and varieties kept in a book. The numbers
and names should also be written on a piece of board and nailed up
where it may be conveniently referred to. These labels last for years,
and may be used as often as necessary. In Water Lily ponds, whether
the plants are labeled above water or not, those intended to be removed
to their Winter quarters should have the name secured by nailing a strip
of the copper along the top of a stout wooden label, w-ith the number
belonging to the kind punched on the copper. With copper and punches
conveniently at hand no more time will be used than in writing an
ordinary label. This method is a safe one also, where a permanent
label is desired for preserving the names of outdoor vines, shrubs and
trees.
OUVIRANDRA FENESTRALIS— The lattice leaf plant of Madagascar.
This unique subject thrives best when the leaves are near the surface of
the water. The pots should be submerged from 4 to 6 inches. The
temperature of the water should never be below 65 degrees, but it
should be kept at least 10 degrees higher most of the time. A wide tub
and one about 14 inches deep, will suffice for the plants needs. The tub
should be placed in the warmest part of the stove, and shaded from the
sun at all seasons. It is not particular as to soil, growing in any ordi-
nary potting mixture. Loam, sand and a little half-rotted manure,
topped off with fine grand, produce good results. When in an evidently
dormant state the plant will, no matter at what season, begin to send
up new leaves when given a shift, or the ball reduced and fresh soil
afforded. Its greatest enemy is the confervoid growths which cling to
the leaves. To check these, keep the plant in total darkness for a few
days. Propagation is by division, and from seeds.
