Ferns and Lycopods*
ADIANTUM (Maidenhair) is one of the most important genera of
ferns, as it contains several of our most popular decorative plants.
There are nearly a hundred known species; many of these are in cultiva-
tion, besides numerous varieties and forms. There is great diversity of
form in the fronds of different species. A. reniforme is simple and kidney
shaped. Among others A. macrophyllum and A. peruvianum have the
fronds simply pinnate. In the greater number of species the fronds are
much branched. Where large collections of ferns are grown it would be
a difficult task to select the most beautiful and interesting kinds, as this
genus above all others does not possess a single species but what is
worthy of a place in the fernery. For decorative purposes A. cuneatum
is more extenfeiv-ely grown than any other species. There are several
well marked forms. A. c. Croweanum has very large fronds. A. c. gra-
eillimum has the segments much smaller than in thc/se of the type. A.
c. mundulum is a dwarf garden form, well suited for Ul^iug in fern dishes.
A. c. variegatum has the pinnules faintly marked with creamy white.
A. hispidulum (pubescens) is a species much used in a young state, as it
can be got up in quantity very readily. Plants in 2 and 3-inch pots
raised from spores have a very different appearance from those which
have reached the adult stage. A. caudatum and A. lunulatum are well
suited for planting in hanging baskets. Young plants are produced at
the ends of the fronds, and when planted out among rocks in a
greenhouse they soon cover a large space. A. Capillus-Aeneris is one of
the hardiest of the genus, but it has a very wide geographical distribu-
tion. It is the most useful of all ferns for growing on damp greenhouse
walis. There are numerous varieties; A. C.-V. Imbricatum has very
large pinnules ; it is shy in producing spores, but is easily increased
by division of the rhizomes in the latter part of March. A. tenerum
makes beautiful specimens in 5-inch pots, but it is a little tender for
decorative work. Adiantum fronds will keep a much longer time after
they are cut, if they be submerged in water for a few hours, than if used
direct from the plant. Among the tall growing species A. trapeziforme
is one of the most ornamental. It may frequently be met with in col-
lections, and has fronds 3 to 4 feet long. A. t. pentadactylon is a well
marked variety and should always be included in large collections; it
stands well as a decorative plant. A. t. Sancta? Catherinse is a dwarf
variety, with the segments deeply cut. This species and its varieties
are best increased by division of the crowns before starting into growth.
Adiantum Farleyense— Success in growing this important com-
mercial fern depends to a great extent on making a proper start with
the small plants. It is labor lost in trying to make a healthy plant out
of an unhealthy one, or from one which has got a set-back from some
