FERNS AND LYCOPODS. 151
cause, unless they be knocked out of the pots and spHt up into small
pieces — the smaller the better, provided there are a few small fronds
attached to each piece and a probability of their making new roots.
A. Farleyense does not produce spores as most kinds of ferns do. The
reason is because it is not a species, but merely an unfertile variety of a
species said to be the well known A. tenerum; consequently the only
method of propagation lies in dividing the old plants. Some growers
split the crowns and pot the growing points in thumb pots, placing
them in a frame or close shaded house. This method is not always
satisfactory, for unless the points have fairly good live roots to start
with, or show signs of immediately making fresh ones, their struggle
for existence is apt to be a pretty tough one. The first batch may be
started about the end of January or first half of February. Old plants
from which the fronds were cut earlier in the season, and which show
little colonies of small fronds, are the best for the purpose. Wash every
particle of soil from the roots, when it will be found there is a consider-
able quantity of dead but hard, wiry rhizomes just beneath the surface
of the soil. This material, if potted up with the pieces, hinders their
growth and should be removed. Select only the rhizomes which have
life in them and which have a frond, however small, or a piece of frond
attached. The work of separation should be done with the aid of a
sharp-pointed pair of scissors. Next put the pieces in a mixture of sand
and moss, the latter rubbed through a No. 8 sieve; have the materials
in equal parts. Water should be given very sparingly. To start the
pieces into growth under the most favorable conditions they ought to
be covered with glass until new roots and fronds push out. They may
then be potted into 2-inch pots.
Adiantums from Spores.— A. cuneatum, A. pubescens and many other
species vegetate very quickly from spores. The principal points to be
observed are to have the soil free from the lower forms of plant life, such
as mosses and liverworts. Sow the spores very thinly. Keep the pans
in which they are sown shaded from the sun, and the pans covered with
glass until the first fronds appear. During the process of germination
the soil should not be watered from above, but by sinking the pans up
to the rims in a pail of water. The spores will germinate in almost any
kind of soil, but it shoufd be somewhat porous and well drained. Sow
in early Spring, The small heart-shaped growth vrhich comes from the
spore is known as the prothallus or the sexual stage. The male and fe-
male organs are on the under surface. After fertilization takes place the
young fern develops.
Propagation by Division — A. cuneatum and its varieties are the Maid-
enhair ferns most largely grown. These and their allied species, which
have become unsightly through cutting the fronds, on being repeatedly
used in decorations during the Winter season, should, while in a dor-
mant state, have all the fronds cut off and be placed in the coolest house,
where they should be allowed to rest as long as possible. The appear-
ance of the young fronds will serve as an indication as to how the plants
should be split up previous to repotting. Put the pieces in 5-inch pots.
In potting use a loam which is apt to get hard after watering ; this, with
a little sand and leaf soil, will give sood results. In starting the plants
they will not suffer by having the house almost without shade.
