152 FERXS AXf) LYCOPODS.
ASPIDIUM CAPENSE— Where a ^ood, hardy, ornameDtal Fern is
-wanted for decorative purposes, one that is cheaply got up and not
easily spoiled, A. capense will answer. From a well filled 6 or 8-inch
pot several dozen plants may be raised within a few months. It is a
greenhouse species requiring but little heat in Winter.
ASPLENIUM— A very large genus. Only a very few of the species are
extensively grown, but none of them is on the short list of the best dec-
orative Ferns for florists. A. nidus, the Birds-nest Fern, a native of
Australia, is a striking epecies with very large simple leaves. It must
have perfect drainage, rather rough and fibry soil, and a stove tempera-
ture.
CIBOTIUM (Dicksonia) SCHIEDEI— A low-growing Tree- Fern, native
of Mexico. The fronds are of a light shade of greenand very much divided,
those of young plants arching gracefully. It stands well in a dry
atmosphere. Young plants come readily from spores. Old plants some-
times make numerous growths at the base of the stem. If these are
taken off with a few roots attached and put in the sand bed for a few
weeks thoy make specimen plants very quickly.
CYRTOniUM (Aspidium) FALCATUH, together with C. Fortunei and
A. caryoiideum, are among the liarliest of the Ferns used for decorat-
ing, for which purpose they are much grown. The coolest house will do
for the plants after the.y are of the requisite size. The fronds are simply
pinnate, the pinnules resembling, to a certain extent, the leaf divisions
of the fish-tail Palm, Caryota urens. Young plants are raised from
spores.
DAVALLIA — A genus of Ferns having scaly rhizomes which usually
creep along The surface of the soil and send out roots from their under
surfaces. Of the few species grown D. fijiensis plumosa is one of the
most ornamental, having very finely divided fronds. It must be grown
fn a warm house. As it is not a deep rooting plant pans or baskets
should be used according to the purpose for which the plants are wanted.
It is propagated by division of the rhizomes while dormant. D. bullata,
D. pentaphylla, D. Tyermanni, and D. dissecta are well adapted for bas-
kets. Those made of wire should be selected, so that the rhizomes, as
they lengthen, may be pegged against the side. D. alpina and D. par-
vula are exceedingly pretty dwarf-growing species for a warm green-
house. D. stricta is grown as a pot plant; this species is easily raised
from spores.
D. Mariesii is the speciesused in making up Fern Balis. Itis decidu-
ous and should be kept moist enough in Winter to prevent the rhizomes
from shrivelling.
D. Mooreana is a desirable plant for house decoration, but is not
grown in quantity, owing to the difficulty of getting up a large stock
within a reasonable time. Those in a starved condition make the best
stock plants.
DICKSONIA BAROMETZ is a very useful, medium-siaed, decorative
species. It is freely increased by division.
