FERNS AXD LYCOPODS. lo3
D. antarctica— The stems of this noble Tree-Fern are sometimes im-
ported in a dormant state. When placed in a cool, moist house in pots
only large enough to accommodate them, they usually start into
growth. Young plants are raised from spores sown in a cool, shaded
greenhouse. The^^ sometimes germinate freely sown on the stems of the
old plants. The fronds are of a leathery texture, and the plants stand
much rough treatment.
LOMARIA GIBBA is a miniature Tree-Fern forming very graceful
rosettes of simply divided leaves. It is useful even in a very small state,
as the foliage is different from that of most other Ferns grown in quantity
for decorative purposes. Old ijlauts produce fertile fronds in abun-
dance, and if the spores are harvested and sown at the proper time, they
vegetate very quickly. By this method of increase, plants in o-inch pots
may be produced in 12 months from sowing. Of this species there are
one or two handsome forms. L. g. Belli has the points of the pinnae
beautifully tasselled. L. g. robusta is of a robust growing nature. A
species closely allied to L. gibba, known as L. ciliata, has shorter and
stouter fronds. The plant is quite as useful and as easily raised from
spores as JL. gibba.
MICROLEPIA (Davallia ) HIRTA CRIST ATA is one of the handsomest
of crested Ferns, capable of being grown into very large, symmetrical
specimens. To have it at its best it needs a warm temperature. Water
should be kept from the fronds, as they are quite hairy and are apt to
turn brown when kept vs^et. Increased by division.
NEPHROLEPIS— The species and forms are for the most part plants
with tough, leathery fronds, enabhng them to be used with little injury
for decorating or house plants. Several varieties are largely grown.
The most popular are forms of N. exaltata. N. e. bostoniensis is an old
and deservedly popular plant which has within the last few years been
very extensively employed as a decorative plant. Large specimens are
well adapted for placing on pedestals, or hanging from the roof of a
large conservatory. It is increased by division, jjlanting the pieces in
shallow soil, on benches, and potting up the young plants, which are
formed from runners. Within the past few years several remarkable
plumed varieties of this fern have made their appearance and are much
grown as decorative plants ; these are known as Piersoni, Scottii, Am-
erpohli, Whitmani. Scholzeli, etc. The plant known as N. davallioides
farcans is a crested form, evidently not of N. davallioides but of some
other species, probably one allied to N. acuta. When planted out on
benches it gives off plants from runners in the same manner as the Boston
Fern, but not so plentifully. Old specimens may be divided and the
pieces put thickly together on a bench, in leaf mould and sand, to make
a little growth before potting.
N. washingtoniensis and N. w. pendula are both good kinds for decora-
tive purposes. The fronds after being cut will last for a long time un-
der what would seem adverse conditions.
N. cordifolia, when well grown, is an elegant decorative subject. The
typical form is much smaller than any of the above-mentioned species.
