FERNS AND LYCOPODS. 155
and varieties. The fronds are narrow and the leaf divisions close together,
but, like some of the others, it varies much. One of the varieties pro-
duces tubers; the fronds in this case are large and may be mistaken for
those of N. exaltata.
N. c. pectinata is a well known variety, having the fronds narrow
and drooping. When matured it is usually grown in baskets suspended
from tue roof of a greenhouse. Useful specimens may also be grown in
5-inch pots. Increased by divisions, which may be quite small.
N. acuta is a stout growing and distinct species; the fronds are
sometimes 16 inches broad and from 2 to 4 feet long. It makes but few
fronds when compared with some of the others. It must have abundant
root room. Increased by stolons.
N. davallioides is somewhat coarse in growth. It needs careful han-
dling while the fertile fronds are developing. Moderate-sized specimens
do not show this plant at its best, as it is the very long fertile fronds on
plants several feet across which make it attractive. Increased by divi-
sion.
ONYCHIUM— Of this genus two species are commonly grown for
decorative purposes; the fronds are very much divided. O. auratum is
the largest, but O. japonicum is the handsomest. Both are easily in-
creased from spores; or the old plants may be divided, but only to make
large specimens.
PLATYCERIUM (Stag Horn Fern)— From their wonderful resem-
blance to the antlers of a stag well grown plants of the Platyceriiims
never fail to attract attention. The species called P. grande is the most
striking of the number. A native of the northern part of Australia it
needs more heat than most of the others. While they succeed pretty
well in pots they do better and look more natural when grown on blocks
of wood. Some forked limbs of trees should be cut up on which to fasten
the plants. The pieces should be in the neighborhood of 18 inches in
length. Drive in a few nails here and there; place some rough peat and
moss against the wood; put the plant in position and wire it firmly,
packing in portions of the peat and moss wherever possible.
P. grande can only be propagated in quantity from the spores,
which are found in a large mass underneath the primary division of the
frond. Raising young plants in this way is not a difficult operation,
but one that requires lots of patience. A pan should be prepared con-
taining fibry peat, chopped fine; add a liberal quantity of finely-broken
brick, charcoal, and coarse sand. The pan should be placed in a flat of
water so that the mixture may derive moisture from beneath. Water
should never be given overhead, as germination depends, to a great ex-
tent, on the spores remaining in the same spot until the prothallus be-
gins to form.
P. alcicorne and its var. majus may be grown in a cool greenhouse.
These kinds, together with P. Hillii and P. sethiopica, increase rapidly
from the roots, many bud-like processes forming on the surfaces and
