12 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
shade at all times, lightest in Winter. The potting mixture should be
rough, fibry peat, sphagnum, decayed cow manure and sand, except for
A. Scherzerianum, which needs less sphagnum and more peat. Water
should be copiously supplied in the growing season. Toward the end of
.January, with increasing sun heat, these plants will soon commence
active growth for the season. Before this takes place they should be
looked over for the purpose of repotting or for rooting any tall or strag-
gling growths which have grown away from the sphagnum in the pot.
In this condition the roots, which are formed at the bases of the leai
stems, shrivel up for want of moisture and the plant becomes sh^- in
blooming. Cut off the shoots that are in this condition and put in a
mixture of sphagnum and sand in a warm part of tte propagating
bench; keep moist and roots will form in abundance in about three
weeks, when they should be potted up in the usual way. Old plants
should have the lower part of the stem and roots removed and sunk
lower in the pot, using a mixture of fibrous peat, sphagnum, well decom-
posed cow manure, charcoal and sand. This treatment applies only to
such kinds as A. Andreanum, A. ornatum and their numerous hybrid
progeny, all of which produce very showy flowers which may be used to
advantage associated with tho?e of orchids. Their cultivation is
exceedingly simple where sufficient heat is at command, a minimum tem-
perature of 65 degrees F. being necessary.
APONOQETON DISTACHYON— This is not a greenhouse plant, but,
where opportunities offer, it certainly should be grown as such. It is
known as the Cape Pond Weed. Theflow^ers, arranged much in the same
way as those of the Ouvirandra, have large, showy white bracts; very
sweet smelling. In its native haunts the seeds germinate on the surface
of the water, forming very small tubers which, when the leaves decay,
sink to the bottom of the pond and become established there.
ARALIA— Aralia Veitchii and A. gracillima are readily rooted if the
cuttings are taken at the proper time; that is, when young shoots
develop on a cut-back plant, and they are removed with a heel and kept
in a close, warm propagating frame. But this is a slower method than
grafting if the necessary stocks are at hand. A. Guilfoylei, or any of the
woody species of Panax, make good enough stock on which to work
them. Select long, wiry wood for cions— that which is not too thick
and well ripened. In the cions a piece of the stem to each leaf is all that
is necessary. Cut the stock clear across and down to as near the soil as
possible; make an incision in it downward for three-quarters of an inch.
Make the wood of the cion wedge-shaped to fit the incision, and tie to
keep in portion till united, during which process they should be kept in
a rather warm, humid atmosphere— a moderately warm propagating
frame will answer. The leaves of the cions, if too large, should be short-
ened back a little. March is the best mouth in which to perform the
operation.
Aralia Chabrierii, so called, strikes so readily from cuttings put in a
cool house that there is no necessity for grafting them.
Aralia (Fatsia) japonica is conceded to be one of the best plants for
decorative purposes, but like several other good things in this line it is
