FERNS AND LYCOPODS. 157
sending up tiny leaves. These young plants may be removed when an
inch or two high, and potted singly in small pots.
POLYPODIUM— This is the largest genus of the order, and includes
many plants which have long been known under other generic names.
These names are In common use, and it is likely that they will continue
to be employed for a long time. Some of the better known are Cam-
pyloneuron, Cryptosorus, Drynaria, Goniophlebium, Goniopteris, Lepi-
cystis, Niphobolus, Phegopteris, Phlebodium and Pleopeltis. There is a
great number of exceedingly beautiful plants among the species. The
varieties, especially those of the common Polypody, P. vulgare, are
among the handsomest of hardy Ferns, but they are not so much grown
in America as in Europe, where they do grandly in outdoor ferneries.
P. (Goniophlebium) sub=auriculatum makes one of the finest basket
plants for a warm greenhouse. The fronds are several feet in length,
and drooping. This Fern is not difficult to grow, provided H be given
a fibrous soil and an abundant supply of water during the period of
-Towth. It is helped along wonderfully by adding to the soil some finely
crushed bone with the minute particles washed out, only saving tbe
rougher material in the process of washing. This substance, by the
way, is of great service as permanent food for many of the Ferns, but
the deleterious matter must be removed by washing.
P. (Niphobolus) lingua, from Northern India and Japan, is almost
hardy and one of the best for house culture. There are three forms: one
variegated, another crested, the third having the largest fronds. The
fronds are undivided, very leathery in texture and remain in good condi-
tion for more than a year. All of them are very readily increased hy
division.
P. Heracleum and P. conjugatum are suitable for a warm conserva-
tory. When well grown they are odd and attractive. The very thick
rhizomes grow on the surface of the soil and accommodate themselves
in a wonderful way to a limited rooting area by growing in coils.
P. ( Phlebodium ) aureum should be more grown for decorative purposes,
as it will stand a dry atmosphere, is very graceful, and the spores on a
small frond will raise thousands of plants. They should be sown on
very finely chopped Fern roots mixed with screened moss. The fronds
are from 2 to 4 feet in length, and from 9 to IS inches broad, simply
divided. It grows most luxuriantly among Fern root, peat and moss.
There is a form called P. a. sporadocarpum with fronds very glaucous,
almost blue, usually growing from 12 to 18 inches high — a handsome
plant, showing up well under gaslight. Increased by rhizomes. It needs
more heat than the type.
P. rigidulum — A species too seldom seen. It has two kinds of fronds
very different from eaeh other; the barren ones are about 9 inches in
length, divided half way to the mid-rib, forming blunt lobes. The fertile
ones reach a height of from 2 to 4 feet, and are 12 to IS inches broad.
A very handsome plant for collections.
P. Phymatodes is a rhizomatous species of very rapid growth, with
exceedingly graceful leaves. The fronds are deeply pinnatifld, the fertile
