158 FERXS AXD LYCOPODS.
ones narrowest. One of the uses to which this Fern may be put is in
training against damp walls or on the dead stems of Tree Ferns. It is
easiest propagated by taking piecesof the rhizomes with fronds attached
and pegging down in 4 or 5-inch pots of sandy soil.
PTERIS— There are many good decorative plants in this genus, all of
which are easy to propagate. Most of them may be grown in ordinary
greenhouse temperature. Of P. serrulata, much used in a small state,
there are numerous forms, some of which have beautifully crested fronds
and others variegated.
P. cretica albo=lineata is one of the finest of all variegated Ferns. The
barren fronds are nearest the base of the plant; they are shorter and
broader than the fertile ones, A broad band of creamy white occupies
the middle of each leaf division. This Fern comes true from the spores,
which vegetate in a very short time after sowing.
P. quadriaurita, a variable species. The most useful form is known
as P. q. argyripa, having a white mark down the center of each frond —
a very useful variety in a small state. It is raised from spores. *
Pteris tremula is best for using in pots not under 5-inch. It is one of
the quickest raised from spores. There are crested forms. The one
named P. t. Smithiana has been in the trade for several years.
P. Wallichii and P. inequalifolia (the latter evidently related to P.
semipinnata) are coarse growing and easily multiplied by division. P.
hastata and P. macrophylla have very dark green fronds. Both are
very liable to insect attacks, unless grown cool. They are both useful in
2 and 3-inch pots.
SELAGINELLA — Although not related to Ferns, some of the species
have a striking resemblance to these plants. Their cultural require-
ments are almost similar. They do best in shade, and with a few excep-
tions they need a rather warm atmosphere, especially while making
their new growth. They may be propagated from spores, division of
the crowns, or from cuttings. Propagation by spores is seldom attempted,
as dividing the plants and rooting from cuttings will give an abun-
dant supply.
S. Emmeliana, one of the best for supplying small plants for mixing
with Ferns, is increased by breaking up the mature fronds into small
pieces, and scattering these on the surface of a box or bed of sandy soil,
which should be kept moist and shaded from the sun. Every smalj
piece will make a plant.
S. Kraussiana is a dense growing moss-like species, much used for
covering the soil in pots in which other plants are growing, in Fern
dishes, and for the borders of conservatory beds. S. K. aurea has yel-
low foliage. S. K. variegata is green and white. In propagating this
species and its forms it should not be broken up into little tufts and
potted, as is usually the case. Take single growths and put, say three
of them, in a 3-inch pot; in a short time they will develop enough growth
to cover the soil.
