FERXS AXD L\ CO PODS. 159
S. erythropus is a useful species witli reddish stems reaching a height
of about 9 inches.
S. Martensii, a Mexican species, is one of those most frequently grown.
It is exceedingly easy to propagate, as long atrial roots are made from
the stems. Cuttings, say about 4 inches in length, will root well if put
in small pots and kept close; or to fill large pans, and have them present
a well-furnished appearance in a short time, root the pieces in sand,
afterward putting directly in the pans.
S. lepidophylla is the well-known Resurrection Plant, which, when
dry, curls up into a ball, and which uncurls when placea in water.
S. viticulosa grows about 8 inches high, is always bright green. An
easily divided plant and useful in a small state.
S. caesia arborea is a climbiug species very suitable for rambling over
rustic work in a moist conservatory. Where its OBrial roots are allowed
to fasten themselves to suitable material it grows into a dense, irregular
mass of lovely bluish-green foliage.
Soil— This should be of a porous nature, through which water will
pass freely. Small plants from spores will need about two parts leaf
soil and one each of loam and sand. Loam, whenever used, should be
fibrous, well broken up and not sifted. For plants in pots larger than 4-
inch, leaf soil, loam and sand, in equal parts, will be a safe compound.
Some Ferns, notably A. Farleyense, are benefited by having some rotted
cow manure mixed with the soil. Large plants, and those which have
to remain in the same pots for any length of time without shifting,
should have less leaf soil and more loam. But most of the species thrive
in a variety of soils. The usual time for potting large plants is before
starting into growth ; but rapid-growing, small plants should be shifted
into larger pots as they need them.
Summer Quarters for Cool House Ferns— Many Ferns used during
Winter as decorative plants will be found to put on a vigorous growth
in frames during the warm months. Select those frames with a northern
exposure, with the sashes tilted to give an abundance of air. The pots
may be plunged or placed on some material capable of giving off consid-
erable moisture. The plants may be kept in this structure till cool
w^eather. Among the kinds which may be thus treated are Pteris Tic-
torise, P. cretica albo-lineata, P. Mayii, P. serrulata and its many
forms, P. tremula, P. hastata, Onychium japonicum, Aspidium capense,
Adiantum Capillus- Veneris, A.formosum,Cyrtomium falcatum and Dick-
sonia antarctica. In Winter a minimum temperature of 45 degrees will
keep all of the Ferns named above in healthy condition. For the tender
kinds 10 to 15 degrees higher will be necessary.
Shading— Some Ferns, such as Cheilanthes vestita, grow in dry places
in the full sun, but the vast majority thrive only under conditions exactly
the reverse. In Winter the very thinnest shade will be suflicient, and
from the 1st of April to the end of September it should be heavy enough
to intercept the suns rays.
