rERNS AND LYCOPODS. 161
Preparing Soil for Fern Spores— The greatest hindrances to raising
Ferns from spores are the lower forms of plant life ever present in the
soil, and very often in the water. These consist of Mosses, Liverworts
and the various confervoid growths. Many of them, owing to the
favorable conditions presented, vegetate as quickly as the spores of the
Ferns and grow into a mass, choking the prothallus in the first stages
of growth. The only means of getting around this difficulty lies in ster-
ilizing the soil, or, at least, that part of it on which the spores are to be
sown; and this can only be done safely by subjecting it to a temperature
sufficiently high to kill all plant organisms, by baking, steaming or boil-
ing. The last method will be the most available in the majority of
cases. The soil may be boiled for 15 or 20 minutes, and afterward
poured into wide flat boxes to dry. Shallow pans are the most conve-
nient in which to vegetate the spores; they should be well drained with
potsherds and these covered with a layer of sphagnum. The kind of
soil to be used Is of little importance, provided it be porous and free of
vegetable organisms. Loam, leaf mould and finely broken brick, in
equal parts, make an ideal mixture. Press it firmly and give water
always by sinking the pan up to the rim in a vessel containing water.
Gathering and Sowing Spores— Many failures in germinating some of
the rarer kiuds of Ferns may be set down to harvesting the spores at
the wrong time. They should always be gathered with the aid of a
hand-magnifying glass, which will show when the cases are about to
burst. Cut off the entire frond, or as much as may be wanted, and put
between sheets of white paper to dry. In a day or two the spores will
have fallen from the frond; if not, a gentle rubbing between the fingers
will release them. They should then be scattered on the surface of the
soil in the pan. taking care to sow very thinly, as they are very liable to
dampen off when the prothalli are too close together. Cover with a
pane of glass and put the pan in a shaded frame, or in a heavily shaded
part of the greenhouse. When the prothallus develops, and just as the
first tiny leaves appear, the glass covers may be removed, to harden the
seedlings a little. A day or two after they may be pricked off into other
pans of soil, taking one small patch at a time on the end of a knife blade
and merely pressing them into a previously made cavity on the surface
of the soil. They may then be watered through a fine rose.
Viviparous Ferns are those which develop bulbils along the midribs
or on the lateral branchlets of the fronds, thus providing a ready means
of propagation. Polystichum angulare, Asplenium bulbiferum and
Woodwardia radicans are good examples. There are also several other
well-known Ferns which possess this peculiarity. To increase Ferns by
this means sink the pots up to their rims in a suitable mixture of soil
to enable the fronds which are provided with bulbils to be easily pegged
down, so that plantlets may be encouraged to develop roots quickly.
When they have made a suflScient quantity to enable them to become
self-supporting they may be separated from the frond and potted sepa-
rately into 21/2-inch pots, or, if too small for pots, they may be pricked
off into boxes or pans.
