165
Hardy Perennial Plants*
AC/ENA MICROPHYLLA— A native of New Zealand. In localities
where this species will thrive it will be found one of the best trailing
dwarf sub-shrubs. The flowers are inconspicuous, but the flower heads,
on maturing, are covered with long, crimson spines, which give the
plant a very ornamental appearance. For a rockery few plants surpass
it in forming neat, compact masses. It is not particular as to soil. In
this locality young plants are best put out in their permanent positions
early in the Fall, as when put out in Spring they do not make sufficient
growth to insure a healthy, vigorous condition during the hot months.
It is propagated by division and from seeds.
ACANTHUS— In warm spots, at least three of the species are hardy
with us, but they bloom only sparingly. In one or two of the species,
but notably in A. spinosus, the flower stalks have a handsome appear-
ance for quite a while after the flowers are dead. A. mollis and A. m.
latifolius were used for bedding in this city a few years ago. These
kinds are easily increased by division of the roots. Seeds are readily
obtained. The seedlings may be planted out in places where they are to
remain a few weeks after germinating. They are deep-rooting plants.
In the colder parts of the country all of the species should have the
crowns protected in Winter.
ACHILLEA niLLEFOLlUn— Anativecomposite,withlargeflatcorymbs
of white, red, or purple flowers. The leaves are much divided. It is one
of the easiest plants to cultivate in the open border, spreading very
rapidly and flowering profusely. Large clumps may be divided with a
spade at any time during Spring or Autumn and replanted. It usually
grows from one to two feet high.
A. ptarmica fIore=pleno— The variety of this known as The Pearl is
one oE the most desirable of hardy herbaceous plants, because of the
flowers, which are double and white. They are produced in great pro-
fusion if the plants get fair treatment. This Achillea should not be
divided in Spring, for unless favorable weather conditions follow the
operation the plants will receive a check from which they do not thor-
oughly recover the same season. If taken up and divided during the
first half of October, replanted and watered if necessary, they will de-
velop working roots before freezing weather, and send up flowers the
following season as if nothing had happened. Do not divide the plants
too closely, and if the ground in which they are growing is dry, water
well before the operation and give another watering when the pieces are
replanted.
Other varieties of A. p. flore-pleno are known as Snowball and Ele-
gaus, ail of them are white flowered.
