16( HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
A. totnentosa is a dwarf, woolly-leaved evergreen, with yellow
flowers. Increased by division.
A. mongolica grows about 18 inches high, bears single white flowers.
Comes into bloom early, and is used for cutting. All of the kinds need
full sunshine.
ACIPHYLLA SQUARROSA and A. COLENSOI— New Zealand umbel-
liferous plants, with dense rosettes of sharp-pointed leaves. In a young
and flowerless stage they are attractive, and may beused in Summer for
rockwork. In the colder parts the plants should either be lifted and
stored in a frame, or protected by a covering of some kind. Both are
raised from seeds sown during the latter part of February.
ACONITUn (Monkshood)— In the warmer parts of the country, where
the Delphiniums will not thrive, some of the Aconitums will be found to
be pretty fair substitutes, as they thrive moderately well where the sun
is only allowed to strike them through a leafy shade. If the soil around
them is given a mulch of 2 or 3 inches deep, to preserve moisture, they
will flower all the better forit. The species are very numerous and have
a wide geographical range. A.napellusisthe best known; unfortunately
it is one of the most poisonous of cultivated plants, but hurtful only
when taken internally. Some of its varieties are A. n. album, flowers
white; A. n. longibracteatum, rich blue; A. n. bicolor, white and lilac;
A. n. Braunii, deep purple. A. ochroleucum and A. pyrenaicum have
pale yellow flowers. A. napellus and its forms flower about midsum-
mer. A. Fischeri, a pale blue flowered native species, blooms late in
Summer. Propagated by division in Fall or Spring.
ACORUS CALAMUS VARIEGATUS (Variegated Sweet Flag) is a
grassy-looking plant, with finely marked leaves. It is well suited for
growing on the margins of artificial lakes; few other places will keep it
in a healthy state unless the soil be moist and partly shaded. It should
be propagated by division of the rhizomes, as growth commences in
Spring. A. gramineus variegatus is an exceedingly handsome little
variegated plant, growing only a few inches high. It will thrive in
much dryer soil than the first-named species. It makes a great number
of grassy-looking growths, so that division is an easy matter at almost
any time.
ADONIS— The annual species, of w hich there are two— A. aestivalis
and A. autumnalis — are more commonly grown than the perennials of
which there are five. A vernalis, A. pyrenaica and A. amurensis are very
elegant species for borders or rockwork. The last named species is one
of the earliest plants to bloom out of doors; very heavy frosts do not
seem to hurt the growth above ground in January and February. T he
flowers are large, yellow; the foliage much divided. Propagation bv
eeed is a rather slow method. Large plants will best stand division in
early Autumn.
yCTHlONEMA CORIDIFOLIUM— A slender, evergreen shrub, growing
about 6 inches, suitable for edgings of borders or for rockwork. Very
readdy raised from seeds which should be sown in Autumn and the seed-
lings put out early in Spring. When in rockwork pockets give a, mulch-
ing of leaf soil or moss to prevent baking of the earth and to keep the
