HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. 167
roots cool. It belongs to the Nat. Ord, Cruciferae. Other good species
are -(E. grandiflorum and jE. pulchellum.
AQROSTEMMA (Lychnis) CORONARIA— This species and its varieties
are always satisfactory in the herbaceous border. They are very quickly
raised from seed, or by division. The foliage is silvery throughout;
the flowers are rose colored; A. c. atro-sanguinea, crimson; A. c. alba,
white; A. c. hybrida, rosy crimson. They grow from one to two feet
high. Almost any kind of soil will suit them, but they must have full
sunshine.
A. flos-Jovis differs from A. coronaria, in having umbellate heads of
bloom, with the foliage narrower. The flowers are purple or scarlet.
All of the above are useful plants for florists to handle. Sow the seed
in the Fall; keep in a cool house. As soon as the seedlings are large
enough prick off into boxes. They may be put out in a cold frame ver^^
early in the season. Or by sowing early in September the seedlings can
be wintered in frames.
AJUGA— The creeping or stoloniferous species are much used as dwarf
plants for forming dense carpets, either on rockwork or in the open
border. As they grow in dense masses they usually are self-supporting
during the hot months. A. reptans var rubra has dark purple foliage.
A. r. variegata is beautifully mottled with yellow. A. genevensis is a
variable species with dull red, white or blue flowers; does well in shady
places. All of the above are readily increased by division either in Fall
or Spring.
ALTH.€A ROSEA (Hollyhock)— One of the tallest growing herbaceous
plants, also one of the showiest. It is what may be called an old-fash-
ioned flower, and it is doubtful if there has been any improvement in the
size and shape of the bloom for a goodly number of years. A host of
varieties used to be kept true to name years ago; these were perpetu-
ated by cuttings, divisions and grafting on roots; but now the best
sorts come tolerably true from seeds. The principal colors are white,
yellow, pink, red and purple. Seeds to produce flowering plants within
a year should be sown as soon as ripe— usually in August. Sow- in a
box of rather light soil and cover very lightly with screened moss. The
seedlings being large from the start should be put singly in small pots,
and as they get too large for that size, shift into two or three sizes
larger. Keep them in a cold frame; give an abundance of ventilation in
favorable weather so that they may become stocky and robust. The
ground should be well prepared for their reception, otherwise they will
not attain full size— 6 to 8 feet tall— and only remain in bloom two or
three weeks. The plants should be put out as early as the ground can
be worked. Good kinds should be marked for seed as they bloom, and
extra good sorts may be propagated by any of the above mentioned
methods.
ALYSSUM (Madwort)— In this genus there are several rockwork or
border plants, which, in their seasons, make a good show while in bloom.
A. saxatile and A. s. compactura are Spring bloomers. The plants are
