HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. 100
Of a dwarf shrubby nature with grayish-green leaves and dense beads of
deep yellow flowers. A. s. variegatum has the foliage marked with yel-
low blotches, which, when the plant is out of bloom, renders it more
valuable than the type as an ornamental plant during the Summer. A.
Gemonenpe is nearly allied to A. saxatile, but is less hardy, and continues
longer in bloom. A. rostratum grows about I1/2 feet high and blooms
later than any of the above named. The species and forms are not par-
ticular as to soil, usually growing very freely wherever planted. They
are easily raised from seed, which should be sown in August and the
seedlings kept in a light, airy position until large enough to be planted
out.
ANEMONE JAPONICA— This species and its varieties are late flowering
herbaceous plants, growing from one to two feet high, with large white
or pale rose-colored flowers, useful lor cutting. The varieties are A. j.
alba, A. j. rosea and A. j. Whirlwind. Root propagation is the method
employed, and it may be done at almost any season, but preferably in
early Spring. Dig up some of the oldest plants, saving even the small
roots. Cut both large and small into pieces about 2 inches in length
and put in boxes of sandy soil, covering the pieces with an inch of the
same material. Keep fairly moist and in a cool frame. When the roots
have developed growths from 2 to 3 inches high put in 3-inch pots,
plunging these in ashes and keeping them covered for a few days. After
the plants make a suflicient quantity of roots they should be put out in
their permanent quarters, where preparation should be made for them
in advance by having the ground deeply worked and well manured.
During Summer, both young and old plants should be heavily mulched
if the maximum number of flowers are expected from them. During dry
weather the plants, if neglected, are apt to stand still and throw up
only a few feeble looking flowers, so it is important that they be kept
moderately moist by mulching. Short grass, leaves, or half-rotted
stable bedding will answer. In this genus there are about 85 species,
several of which have numerous varieties. Most of them are desirable
plants, but some are weedy, and increase too rapidly in gardens.
A. alpina, a European species, grows about 18 inches high, forming
large clumps. The flowers are usually solitary, from 2 to 3 inches in
diameter, white inside, purplish outside. There is a very fine yellow
flowered variety of this named A. a. sulphurea. Both kinds are slow in
making flowering plants from seeds.
Among the slender, tuberous rooted section, A. Appenina and A.
nemorosa are early flowering dwarf species well suited for naturalizing
among deciduous, low-growing trees and shrubs, as they make most of
their growth before the shrubs and trees are in leaf.
ANTIRRHINUM (Snapdragon)— The varieties of A. majus have long-
been grown as hardy perennials in Europe. In the northern and middle
parts the climatic conditions are more favorable for their grow^th in the
late Summer and Autumn months, as they flourish best in a moist, cold
atmosphere. In America, especially in the Middle and South Atlantic
States, they are best treated as biennials, as the plants which survive
the Winter are usually not in as vigorous a condition as could be wished.
