HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. 171
Cuttings may be put in during October and given the protection of a
frame during the cold months. Or seeds should be sown late in Septem-
ber to have good-sized plants by the following Spring. The tops Of the
seedlings may be rooted quickly in the propagating bed of a cool house;
or they may be grown from the start with the view of flowering them
in pots, for w^hich purpose they are entirely satisfactory. The principal
colors are white, red, purple and yellow, several kinds having combina-
tions of two or more of these colors. A. asarina, from the south of
France, has a trailing habit; the leaves are grayish green and of a
clammy nature; flowers yellowish white. It thrives best in positions
partly shaded from the sun. It reproduces itself freely from seeds which
ripen in abundance and may frequently be seen growing in the chinks of
shady walls.
AQUILEQIA (Columbine) — Hardy perennial plants with very showy
flowers. The colors include red, white, blue and yellow; often there are
two or more of these colors in the same flower. About 30 species are in
cultivation. There are numerous varieties, the results of hybridization,
few of which, however, surpass the species in attractiveness as border
plants. The Aquilegia is so easily hybridized that it is almost impossi-
ble to obtain plants from seeds true to name when two or more species
are grown near each other; even with two species apparently very dis-
tinct, such as A. chrysantha and A. flabellata, they readily mix, but the
progeny has a very undesirable combination of colors in the flowers.
It is always advisable to protect a few flowers of the desirable species
from the visitations of insects, so as to make certain of having the seed-
lings true. I have found the best way to do this is to flower a few
plants in pots and keep the blossoms covered with fine cloth while fer-
tilization is in progress. The seeds germinate irregularly when they
remain long out of the soil, but when sown as soon as gathered they
vegetate very freely, even in midsummer. Spring sowing is unsatisfac-
tory, because the seedlings do not make desirable growth during hot
weather, and often more than a year elapses before any flowers are pro-
duced. Sow in moderately light soil, and cover lightly with screened
moss; keep in an airy, cool house. When the seedlings are large enough
they may be pricked oft into boxes, or round the edges of small pots of
soil. Put them out in a frame when they are large enough to stand sun-
shine. If planted outside, where they are to flower, by the end of Sep-
tember they will make fairly strong crowns before cool weather sets in,
and in the following Spring will bloom strong and vigorous. Among
the red flowering kinds we have A. formosa, A. californica, A. truncata
and A. canadensis; in white there are several, among the best being A.
californica alba, A. flabellata, a dwarf-growing species with very orna-
mental foliage; A. coerulea alba, and A. vulgaris alba. The best of the
yellows are A. chrysantha and A. c. flavescens. In the blue-flowered
forms there is a large number to choose from: A.ccerulea is a very satis-
factory species; A. vulgaris coerulea, A. olympica are both good. In A.
giandulosa the sepals are blue and the petals white. Several of the spe-
cies and varieties are very easily forced into bloom, among them A.
flabellata. It is a trifle later in coming into flower than A. canadensis,
which usually is in full flower in this latitude bj April 10. A. chrys-
