HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. 173
antha is iater in flowering, but a hjbrid between it and A. flabellata,
witli the last named as tiie seed parent, bloomed this season a week ahead
of A. canadensis. The color of this hybrid is a little puzzling; there are
several dozen plants and not a single specimen is different from the others.
The petals are yellow, the spurs of which are the same color as the
sepals— deep purplish blue. All of the plants are quite dwarf, resem-
bling A. flabellata in this respect. The Aquilegias have a habit of dying
out after the second and third year. Any species which it is desired to
increase in the absence of seeds should be lifted, divided and replanted
early in the Fall, so that the pieces may have a chance to become estab-
lished before Winter.
ARABIS (Rock Cress)— Many of the species of Rock Cress are of no
horticultural value and are seldom seen outside of botanical collections.
Three of them, however, are among the most desirable of Spring flower-
ing plants, and may be found in nearly every garden of any size. They
are A. albida, A. lucida and A. alpina. A. albida is the best known; it
forms a dense carpet, the stems being long and wiry, with dense rosettes
of leaves at the ends. The flowers, which are pure white, are borne in
great profusion, almost hiding the foliage. A. alpina is not such a free
grower, but is equally suitable for rockwork, especially the variegated
form. A. lucida is dwarfer than the other two; this has also a varie-
gated form which, like the variety of A. alpina, should not be allowed
to flower. The variegated varieties should be propagated by division,
or by cuttings put in early in the season. The green-leaved kinds are
best raised from seeds, treated in the same manner as recommended for
Aubrietia.
ARALIA (Fatsia) PAPYRIFERA is the rice paper plant of the Chinese-
It is one of the noblest plants in cultivation for sub-tropical effects. The
leaves are palmately divided, supported by strong stalks from a stout
central stem. The whole plant has a grayish cast to it. In the North-
ern States it stands the Winter if the crowns are protected with some
rough material. In a single season strong crowns will grow 8 or 10 feet
high. It is propagated by cutting up the rhizome-like roots into pieces
about 3 inches long and covering them with moss or sand. Keep the
boxes containing the roots in a cool frame all Winter, introducing them
into a little heat early in the Spring so as to have the plants large
enough to plant out by the middle of May. The flower is not the least
attractive part of the plant. In the Southern States the plant is in
bloom during the months of September and October; but in this latitude
it is usually unfolding when its career is cut short by cold weather. The
color is greenish white, the flowers being arranged in drooping panicles
2 to 3 feet in length. (See also page 198.)
ARQEMONE (Devils Fig) — Most of the species grown in gardens are
of annual duration. They will germinate outdoors late in Spring and
develop very rapidly into flowering plants. A. grandiflora is a peren-
nial with white flowers 3 to 5 inches in diameter, but not so free in
blooming as the annual species. It must be given a position in full sun-
shine. Seedlings should be pricked off into small pots as soon as the
seed leaves are developed, as the roots will not endure much disturbance.
