174 HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
ARMERIA (Sea Pink)— Of the Sea Pinks A. vulgaris is the best known.
It grows in dense low clumps, having narrow grass-like leaves. The
flowers are in close heads, on scapes only a few inches high. There are
numerous forms of this species, with red, lilac, deep pink and white
flowers. A. cephalotes has much larger leaves than the above, and the
flowers, which are deep rose, or crimson, are borne on very long scapes.
A. plantaginea is intermediate in size between the two first-named spe-
cies. The choicer varieties are best increased by division; the pieces
should be potted in sandy soil in the beginning of October and kept in a
close frame to encourage roots. All of the species are best raised from
seed. Sow late in Autumn, in a cool house, prick off the seedlings and
remove to a cold frame early to thoroughly harden off. In this section
we put out plants of this class in the open ground as soon as it is in a
workable condition, so that they may be well established before the hot
weather arrives.
ASCLEPIAS TUBEROSA (Pleurisy Root)— One of our most showy
flowered native herbaceous plants. It is deep rooting, and is frequently
seen growing luxuriantly in dry fields in positions fully exposed to the
sun, with the surrounding herbage almost withered. It is late in bloom-
ing and valuable on this account. In removing plants from their native
places they should be taken only after they have completed growth. As
many of the roots as possible should be saved, as the species dislikes
removal. Raising plants from seeds is the most certain method of prop-
agation. As they grow but slowly in the seedling stage sow only a
few seeds in a pot of rather firm soil, and allow the young plants to
remain in these pots for at least a year before planting out. When culti-
vated in gardens the blooming period Is longer than is the case with
wild plants.
ASPERULA ODORATA (Sweet Woodruff)— A slender growing plant of
the Bedstraw family (Rubiacefe,) with pure white flowers in May. It
will succeed in clumps if given a partially shaded situation, but as it
blooms only for a short season, and the foliage is not very attractive,
it is sometimes grown in a quite satisfactory way in company with other
plants, such as Vinca herba.cea, V. minor, and even with varieties of the
English Ivy when used for covering ground among shrubs and under
trees. The flowers of the Woodruff appearing among the foliage of these
plants makes an exceedingly pretty picture. It is propagated by divi-
sion and from seeds. The leaves, when dried, have a very agreeable
aromatic odor.
ASTER (nichaelmas Daisy)— Nearly a hundred species and varieties
of these popular border plants are offered by some of the European
nurserymen. Many of the plants are indispensable for the ornamenta-
tion of the herbaceous border in late Summer and Autumn. They are
all of free growth and will thrive in ordinary garden soil without much
attention; but if the soil be worked deep, and well manured before plant-
ing, the plants will show the results of it in the size and number of
flowers. These asters are best increased by division before starting into
active growth. Of A. novi-belgii there are numerous forms, some of
them only 18 inches high and from that ranging to a height of 6 feet.
