HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. 175
The flowers are lavender or violet blue, rose and white; A. novae-anglia*
is one of the best-known species, tall growing, with purple flowers; its
variety, A. n.-a. rubra, bearing rose-colored flowers, should always be
included in a collection. Other good forms of this species are A. n.-a.
prsecox, crimson purple; A. n.-a. Woolston, light purplish blue, and A.
n.-a. pulchellus, violet blue.
ASTILBE JAPONICA, usually known in gardens as Spirsea japonlca.
The Spiraeas belong to the Bose family, while Astilbe japonica is classed
with the Saxifragas, but A. Lemoinei is said to be a hybrid between A.
japonica and a species of Aruncus, which is also a rosaceous genus. If
this be the case then both plants must necessarily be closely related, and
if not of the same genus then they are of the same family. Astilbe ja-
ponica is better known as a forcing plant than as a subject for the hardy
border. It is best grown in partial shade, for when in sunny places,
unless kept supplied with water during dry spells, the foliage is apt to
suffer before the close of the Summer. There are several fine varieties.
A. j. compacta has more compact panicles than the type. A. j. grandi-
Gora is larger; A. j. variegata has a yellowish variegation; A. rivulari.s
makes a splendid border plant in this section, growing to a height of
5 feet, and blooming late in the season. A. Thunbergii grows about 18
inches high, and is much used as a forcing plant. In the border it thrives
best in heavy, retentive soil. All of the species are propagated by divi-
sion, in the early Fall.
AUBRIETIA DELTOIDEA — A low-growing, evergreen Spring-flowering
plant, forming dense cushions of growth and thickly studded with small,
purple flowers early in the season. There are numerous forms; some of
the best are A. d. Hendersonii, more robust than the type, with deep
violet-blue flowers; A. d. Eyrei, a free-growing form, and A. d. grfpca, a
large light-purple flowered variety. Aubrietias are well adapted for
rockwork culture, as they like well-drained situations and rather light
loamy soil. They will stand full sunshine. The readiest means of prop-
agation is by seed which may be sown early enough to have the seed-
lings established before freezing weather; or, the old plants may be
divided and potted in sandy soil, keeping them in a frame during Winter,
and planting out as soon as the weather will permit.
BAPTISIA PERFOLIATA is a native of the Southern States, and is but
seldom seen in cultivation. Owing to its beautifully arranged perfoliate
leaves it forms a striking object in the herbaceous border. In Washing-
ton it is perfectly hardy, and ripens an abundance of seed yearly. They
are sown soon as gathered; kept in a cold frame they germinate the fol-
lowing Spring. B. australis grows from 3 to 6 feet high; the flowers
are blue. It seems to do best in deep sandy soil. Raised from seed. B.
alba and B. leucautha are white-flowered species.
BEGONIA EVANSIANA— This, the hardiest of the Begonias, is also
known as B. discolor and B. grandis. It is a native of China, Japan
and Java. It is one of the species which form bulbils, or resting buds,
in the axils of the leaves. These bulbils, when ripe, fall to the ground,
and it is from them that the young plants grow late in the following
