14 STOVE AXI) GREEXHOISE PLANTS.
not got up in any very great quantity, possibly from methoae of propa-
gation not being evident. It is ratiier backward in producing seeds in
tliis country, altliough moderately large plants flower freely enough.
From cuttings, by topping old plants, it is rather slow. It is said to
vegetate from pieces of the roots. I have not tried this method. Seeds
are obtainable from some of the European firms at reasonable prices.
These should be got hold of during March or April and sown then, as
they do not retain their vitality for any great length of time. Firm the
soil in the seed pans before sowing, and cover with a mixture of loam
and sand; place in a temperature suitable for warm greenhouse plants,
shaded from the sun. The seedlings, as soon as large enough to handle,
should be potted off singly into 2-inch pots, and when in 4-inch pots
they should be plunged outside during the Summer, in a frame covered
with slats, or with sash-tilted top and bottom alternately. When large
enough for a shift they should get it, as they suffer from being root-
bound. Old plants will stand considerable frost, but the young plants
are always more tender and should on the approach of cool weather be
given protection.
A. J. variegata is a highly ornamental form.
ARAUCARIAS— In the propagation of the Araucaria a good plan is
to procure seed and sow at the end of the year. The seedlings are, of
course, not well-furnished at the base, but thej make good stock plants
and cheaper ones than can be procured otherwise. The finely ripened
tops of the seedlings are so easy to root that, with ordinary care, it is
almost impossible to lose a cutting Moreover, the cut-back plants will
immediately begin to throw up good leaders, which in turn are used for
cuttings. In taking cuttings from plants which have attained consider-
able size, the lateral branches may be rooted along with the tops— not
for making specimen plants, because this is impossible, but for the pur-
pose of providing material for cuttings; for, when cut back, they will
throw up leaders, which are as good as the best. The soil for propa-
gating should be sandy, and pressed firmly about the base of the cut-
tings, which should be kept in a frame shaded from sunlight, with
enough moisture in the atmosphere to keep them from wilting. Keep
the temperature a little higher after the cuttings have callused. Most
of the plants used in this country (principally A. excelsa) are imported
from Europe. This Araucaria is a native of Norfolk Island and is
known as the Norfolk Island Pine. The best place for the plants in
Summer is under a structure covered with slats, in which similarly con-
stituted plants may pass the hot months.
ARDISIA— The red-berried ardisia, A. crenulata, continues to be one
of the most attractive Christmas plants. It can be recommended as a
first-class window subject, owing to its apparent indifference to a little
cold or occasional neglect in the way of watering. Seeds may be sown
during the latter part of January. Plants over one year old are never
without a crop of seed at any season, if they are in good health; and
frequently we see them with two crops at one time along with the
flowers, which in a short period produce the third crop of berries. The
old fruits have usually a grimj^ appearance from hanging so long on the
