HARDY PERENNfAL PLANTS. 177
Spring. They come safely through a temperature of several degrees be-
low zero, but just how much cold they will stand I am unable to state.
The plants thrive best in the shade of dwellings, or anywhere except
under the shade of trees, and in positions where direct sunlight reaches
them during the middle of the day. The bulbils pass the Winter success-
fully fully exposed on the surface of the soil, but precautions must he
taken to provide against rapid thawing and freezing. When the bulbils
are left to themselves they usually sprout too thickly together. The
weaker plants should therefore be thinned out, to give those which are
left full opportunity to develop, otherwise their period of blooming will
be short. To have plants early in bloom the bulbils may be harvested
shortly after the plants are done blooming, kept during the Winter in
a bottle and sown in time to have the plants In 3-inch pots by the mid-
dle of May. Notwithstanding the many fine varieties of Begonias for
bedding, this is one of the best for borders which get the benefit of full
light from the north.
BOCCONIA CORDATA (Plume Poppy)— Probably the most imposing
in appearance of all hardy herbaceous plants, making growths of from
6 to 10 feet high. The plant has a grayish green appearance. The
leaves are large and much cut up, or lobed. The flowers, borne in large
terminal panicles, are not showy, but they harmonize grandly with the
foliage. The plant is well fitted for isolated positions on lawns, among
shrubs, or for large herbaceous borders. While thriving best in deeply
worked, fairly rich soil it will succeed in stiff and poor ground. Seeds,
of which a medium-sized plant will produce large numbers, are best for
propagating in large quantities. They should be germinated in April
and the seedlings potted off when small. The plant is also increased
from suckers, which are produced in abundance. It is a native of China
and Japan, and very hardy.
CALLIRHOE— A genus belonging to the same family as the Abutilon
(Malvaceae). C. involucrata, the most useful species, has long, trailing
stems, with fair-sized purplish red flowers in the axils of the leaves. It
spreads very rapidly during the Summer months. A good subject for
borders of moderate width. It should be propagated from seed. Old
plants need to be frequently renewed, as they seem to exhaust them-
selves, probably owing to their rampant growth. In C.i.linearifolia the
leaves are smaller — a good form for the rockery.
CAMPANULA (Bellflower)— The perennial species are nearly all desira-
ble border or rockwork plants, but a few of them become troublesome
by increasing too fast. C. rapunculoides, when once it becomes estab-
lished on rockwork, is sometimes very difficult to keep under control.
None of the kinds usually grown is hard to manage thriving in ordinary
garden soil. They are propagated most freely from seeds. The best
time for the operation is in late Summer, wintering the seedlings in
frames so that the plants may be in good condition for planting out
early the following Spring. C. persicifolia and its forms are easily in-
creased by division, which should be done after the flowering season.
The species in cultivation range in height from 2 or 3 inches to several
feet; but the rare dwarf kinds are seldom seen in America, nor do they
