178 HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
succeed so well here as they do in the cool, moist countries of P^urope.
Of the tall growing border kinds C. alliariaefolia reaches a height of from
2 to 3 feet; flowers white. C. medium, the Canterbury Bell, is a biennial
which, raised from seed one year, will flower the next. C. m. calycan-
thema has the calyx colored like the corolla, forming the well-known
cup and saucer arrangement. C. pyramidalis, although a perennial, is
best treated as a biennial. In a young state it should be given the pro-
tection of a frame during Winter, and if the plants are raised from Spring
sown seed they ought to be large enough to Winter in 5-inch pots. A
few should be kept for flowering in pots, as they make exceedingly hand-
some subjects for the decoration of the conservatory in Summer. C.
persicifolia is the most useful florists flower in the genus. C. p. alba
grandiflora has very lar^e pure white flowers. C. p. alba coronata pro-
duces white cup and saucer-shaped flowers. C. p. alba-plena is double
white, and while it lasts it is one of the best Summer white-flowering
plants. There are also single and double blue-flowered forms. All of
them grow about 2i^ feet high. Plants which remain in the ground
over Winter will be benefited by a mulching around the crowns — of leaf
soil mixed with short manure. Of C. Trachehum there are double blue
and white-flowered varieties; height about 21/0 feet. C. grandis and C.
g. alba are both good; height 3 feet. C. Van Houttei, a hybrid form
with dark blue flowers, grows about 2 feet high. Among the many
dwarf species C. isophylla and C. i. alba, blue and white, are trailers,
and where they succeed they may be used in baskets and vases, but they
do not thrive in very dry soil. C. carpatica is probably the most popu-
lar of the dwarfs; it is a plant which throws up a great number of
stems, forming a dense mound of compact growth usually about a foot
high, and when in full flower it is one of the most attractive of hardy
perennials. There are several forms having blue, pale blue, lilac and
white flowers. C. c. turbinata is dwarfer than the type; very suitable
for the front part of an herbaceous border, or for the rockery. C. rotuu-
difolia is rather an attractive species, but as a garden form C. r. Hostii
is an improvement.
CATANANCHE CCERULEA— A plant with grayish green, long, narrow
leaves, and blue or blue and white flowers borne on long slender stalks.
It is of the easiest cultivation, and a desirable herbaceous plant. Sow
seeds late in the Fall and keep indoors; they will germinate very early.
Prick off into boxes and remove to a cold frame when large enough.
CENTAUREA — Of this genus C. cyanus is the Cornflower and C. mos=
chata the Sweet Sultan. Both are annual in duration. Seeds will ger-
minate in the open ground. C. americana is another good annual species
which is sometimes grown for Summer cut flowers; the color is pale
rose. C. babylonica is a good species to plant in the back part of an
herbaceous border; the foliage is silvery white; flowers thistle-like,
bright yellow. The plant reaches a height of from 6 to 12 feet. Increased
by division during the latter part of March. C. montana is the peren-
nial Cornflower, blooming during the greater part of Summer. There
are forms with lilac, rose, red, white and sulphur colored flowers.
