HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. 181
CERASTIUM BIEBERSTEINII— A dwarf plant with a dense mass of
growths; flowers pure white: in bloom during May. The leaves are
very woolly, giving the plant a whitish appearance all the jear round.
It stands our hot Summers better even than the well-known C. tomen-
tosum (Snow in Summer.) This is a species with smaller and lighter
colored foliage. Both are used for edging in beds or borders. The
plants may be divided very early in the season with or without roots
and replanted with long stems, deep in the soil, well firmed, and kept
moist until they begin to grow. C. Biebersteinii is easily raised from
seeds. C. grandiflora is a green-leaved species well adapted for growing
in dense carpet-like masses over rocks.
CHEIRANTHUS CHEIRI (Wallflower)— A plant much grown in Europe,
where the climate is very favorable to its perfect development. In the
warmer parts of America its period of blooming is but a short one. The
seeds are sown in April, and as soon as large enough the seedhngs are
planted out where they are to flower the following Spring. There are
many fine double forms, some of which have varietal names. Double
flowering kinds can be raised from seed. The colors of the flowers are
yellow, and reddish brown.
CHELIDONIUM MAJUS FLORE=PLENO (Double Celandine)— A reliable
plant for half-shaded positions in woods. It is especially at home
among damp rocks, growing in vegetable humus. In such positions it
will reproduce itself from seeds. The double form is smaller growing
than the single-flowered plaut. The foliage of both has a bright green
appearance for the greater part of the Summer.
CHRYSANTHEMUMS,
For nearly ten months out of the twelve Chrysanthemums are so
little seen that when the flowers are in season they are eagerly welcomed
by the flower-buying public as a change from the blossoms of Spring
and Summer. There may be a change from the stiff and artificial look-
ing flower, which is grown on single stems, to the more natural looking
spray with smaller flowers; but it is safe to say that the Queen (jf
Autumn will remain popular in some shape or other for a long time to
come. Within the last eighteen years the cultivation of this flower has .
made rai)id strides. The size of the blooms is due to this improved cultiva-
tion quite as much as to an improvement in the varieties by selection of
sports and crossbreeding during that time. Many good kinds have
been raised, but these kinds, when grown according to old methods, do
not show the wonderful improvement that is claimed for them. Indoor
bench culture and growing one flower to a plant is the means by which
the flowers are developed to their utmost size.
Stock Plants— Selected roots for this purpose should be heeled in on
the bench of a house where they can be kept cool; a temperature high
enough to keep out frost is best. If such accommodation can not be
spared the next best place is a frame around which stable bedding is
