HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. im
banked up level with the sash. Give abundance of ventilation in favor-
able weather and cover the sash when there is danger to tb^. plants from
frust.
Propagating for General Crop— The ideal months for this operation
are April and May, as then the cuttings are in good condition and the
temperature is not too high to make the operation a difficult one. For
cutting material the moderately thick shoots should be chosen, avoid-
ing those which are very succulent, or those which are weak and show
long spaces between the leaf joints. The short, stocky, soft growths are
best, and should be preferred to all others. The early-flowered kinds
should be given attention first. Put the cuttings in the sand bed, and
during the rooting process a high temjjerature with a stagnant atmos-
phere should be avoided. When the roots are from one-half to three-
quarters of an inch long the cuttings should be potted, as their roots
weaken by a longer stay in the sand. Put in thumb pots, usiug soil a
little lighter than the regular potting compost and obtained by adding
a small quantity of leaf soil. In this stage keep them in the same tem-
perature as that in which they were rooted until their roots show
through the ball of soil. Tdey should then be removed to a cold frame,
standing them on a bottom of sifted ashes. As soon as the plants show
signs of needing a shift they should be put in 3-inch pots, and as a pre-
caution against hardening of the stems they should be plunged in the
ashes, and during excessively warm weather some leaf soil should be
thrown over the tops of the pots to help in keeping the roots cool.
Planting may be proceeded with by the beginning of June for the early
flowering varieties, taking care that the plants are well watered before
being knocked out of their pots.
Late Flowering Plants— To extend the season of some of the latest
flowering varieties till Christmas the cuttings should be taken late, and
as soon as rooted keep them in a growing condition to prevent the
wood getting hard. Growing points of previously potted cuttings make
good wood, if they can be kept from wilting during the rooting process;
but tliis operation is somewhat difficult after the middle of July. Toe
much shade will cause damping and too little favors wilting, so close
observation will be necessary to hit the exact conditions. The single-
leaf cuttings are easiest to root at this season. If the sand be rough
grained and free from foreign material, have the leaf with the under sur-
face lying flat on the sand. Keep the plants shaded for some time after
they are planted out. Very short stems are only avoided by supplying
conditions favorable to growth.
Selecting the Bud— There are two kinds of buds, known as crown
and terminal. The crown bud appears directly on the end of the shoot,
and is naturally the first seen. In some varieties, particularly the early
ones, this is the proper bud to select to develop into a flower, but in
some well-known kinds growers do not agree as to which is the proper
bud to select. There is no doubt, however, that with some soils, also
under certain cultural methods, the proffer bud to take under those
conditions would be the wrong one under others. The terminal bud
shoots are usually three in number and develop from the axils of the
