!«» HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
leaves below the crown bud. One of these bud BhootH is allowed to
remain when a terminal bud is selected, and the other two pinched off
together with the crown bud. The terminal bud is the one selected in
the large majority of varieties; it consists of the end bud, or that which
terminates the selected lateral shoot. Other buds will, in course of time,
appear in the axils of the leaves of this shoot; these must also be
removed.
Specimen Plants— These are not grown so much as they were a few
years ago, owing to the demand for pot plants beyond a certain size
being very limited. Plants which can be sold at a moderate figure give
the best results, and for this purpose they can be grown with very Httle
attention, compared with pot-grown specimens, if they be planted out
ill the Meld, and attention given them occasionally during dry weather
with water and the cultivator. Pinch to produce bushy plants. The
number of times that pinching should be done must be governed by the
kind of plant wanted; if only a few stemsonepinching may be sufficient.
In September the plants should be transferred to suitable sized pots. If
protected from the sun and given a moist atmosphere for a few days
after the transfer they will show no bad results. Plants for pots are
also grown on benches which have been occupied during the Winter by
Carnations. They are lifted and potted in time so as not to interfere
with the housing of field-grown plants of Carnations. In either case
May is early enough to start the plants. Specimen plants of the largest
size are started from cuttings as early as December, and from that time
on till the end of January. The cuttings should be fairly strong, and
either put separately in thumb pots or rooted in the sand bed. The
plants must never be allowed to go to rest, and should be kept in healthy
vigor from the start. During the Winter a position near the glass, in a
house running north and south, suits them well. The best plants are
grown in the house from start to finish; but in this case they take a
large amount of space.
Soil— The Chrysanthemum is not fastidious as to soil, but being a
gross feeder at least one-fourth of the bulk of the soil should be of well-
rotted cow manure, the remainder, loam. Four or five inches in depth
for benches is sufficient, and before the plants are put in position it is
made firm by tramping, or, in the case of side benches, by pounding
with a brick. If the soil is dry, give a good watering a day or two be-
fore planting. Syringing should be practiced several times daily while
the plants are growing; this, together with full ventilation, will provide
perfect atmospheric conditions. Watering should not be overdone at
any time; the condition of the surface soil will readily suggest when the
operation is necessary.
Ventilation— This is a very essential item in the cultivation of the
Chrysanthemum indoors. To one unacquainted with the exact atmos-
pheric conditions under which the best flowers are grown in a green-
house, it would seem somewhat strange that a hardy herbaceous plant
should be cooped up in a hothouse all Summer; but this is far from being
the case, because with abundant ventilation top and bottom, and fre-
quent syringing, the house is kept in a more favorable state for their
