HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. 187
growth than one would imagine; and in the absence of sun the condi-
tions are much more favorable than outdoors. If there are no means of
ftide ventilation provided, panes of glass above thefootpaths should be r^-
i4aoved to let in all the air possible. The doorw bhould also be kept open.
Insects— The number of kinds which are troublesome are small, but
their representatives are numerous enough. There are several species of
Aphis, which attack the young shoots; these pests must be combated
with tobacco in any of its forms. Grasshoppers are also troublesome,
and they must be attended to individually. Caterpillars are best pre-
vented from appearing by catching the perfect insects in the shape of
moths and butterflies as they appear in the house. When the eggs hatch
hand picking is the only efficacious means of ridding the plants of the
caterpillars.
Types or Races— The varieties common in gardens are divided into nu-
merous types. The principal ones are as follows: Anemone Type; this
has the flowers single (all Chrysanthemums have single flowers, but the
so-called single flowers have the outer florets as they grow in a natural
state; that is, having long strap-shaped or tubular florets, usually called
ray florets; the inner ones are shorter, more or less bell-shaped, yellow
in color, and are known as disc florets), with the disc florets raised in
the center. They are regarded more as ornamental garden plants. The
Pompon Type is not grown to the same extent in America as in Europe,
where they are principally used out-of-doors for early flowering. The
Chinese Incurved Type is much grown as a flowering plant indoors.
The florets curl gradually toward the center of the flower, forming a
globular head. The Japanese Incurved Type is less incurved than the
preceding, but few authorities agree as to where the line should be
drawn. The Reflexed Type, as commonly understood, has the florets
pointing away from the center of the flower head, or, as the word would
indicate, curled in the opposite direction to those of the incurved varie-
ties. The Japanese Types include the tubular and quilled varieties, but
the boundaries of this type are also continually shifting.
Varieties— It would be useless to recommend a list for any particular
locality. Soils differ to such an extent that those which thrive in one
place may not turn out the same in another. Again, much depends on
the customers as to predilection in color, etc. Careful observation will
quickly suggest the best kinds to grow. Cultivators are usually loath
to discard a good sort, even though it is an old one. Some of the kinds
prized in England to-day originated many years ago ; and in this c(mn-
try many growers could not fill the places occupied by some of the kinds
they grew, which were raised ten years ago.
Raising New Varieties — There is nothing to hinder anyone from raising
new varieties. The operation is of the simplest, and maybe accomplished
as successfully by the beginner as by those who have been engaged at it
for years. Seedling raising is simply chance work Togo about it accord-
ing to the usual method take two good flowers of the same color, which
for some reason are desirable to blend, shorten the ray florets so as to
have the stigmas readily accessible. Transfer the pollen from the anthers
