HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. 189
of the disc florets of oneflowerto the stigmas of the other. Carefully keep
them iu a dry atmosphere until the seeds are ripe. Keep the seeds in
paper, properly labeled as to parentage, then about the middle of
March they can be sown. The resulting seedlings will be almost certain
to give some flowers passably good, probably some as good as the
parents, and possibly some even better. A great deal depends upon se-
lecting the parents ; but rules for this cannot be laid down, as the se
lection of apparently unpromising parents will sometimes give good re-
sults, showing that the crossing of these plants is little more than guess
work.
Other Species of Chrysanthemum well worth growiug are C. uligino-
sum, a tall growing plant, with large white flowers; very useful for cut-
ting. It blooms late and must have a deeply worked, rich, moist soil to
bring the flowers to perfection. If planted in dry soil it remains dwarf
and unattractive. C. coccineum is better known as Pyrethrum roseum ;
an early Summer blooming species, well worthy of extended culture.
Hundreds of varieties of it are in cultivation. It is not a difficult plant
to manage, thriving in well-drained borders; or on rockwork the plants
are thoroughly at home. They are well suited for providing flowers for
cutting. There are double forms in white, pink, carmine, rose, lilac and
yellow. They are increased in Spring by dividing the plants into small
pieces, and rooting in the sand bed of a cool house before potting. C
leucanthemum is the Ox-eye Daisy Marguerite— or white weed of the
meadows. So-called hybrids between this common plant and other
species Rent out recently are merely forms of other well known species;
there is absolutely no leucanthemum blood in them. C. parthenifolinm
aureum is the Golden Feather, used in filling beds or for borders in Sum-
mer. It is a hardy plant, putting on its gayest colors early in the sea-
^OD ; but it is more satisfactory when raised annually from seeds.
CLEflATIS— During July and August one of the most useful plants tor
producing white flowers is the herbaceous Clematis known as C. recta.
It grows from 2 to 3 feet high and if in deep rich soil the quantity of
flowers to a plant is very large. In C. tubulosa and C. Davidiana we
have two blue-flowered species from China. The last named is fragrant.
They are reliable plants for the herbaceous border, growing about 2 feet
high. They are all increased from seeds sown as soon as gathered; also
from division of the crowns, and by cuttings taken from the plants be-
fore coming into flower.
COREOPSIS— C. lanceolata and C. grandiflora are yellow-flowered
composites, much used for Summer cut flowers. Old plants may be
divided, but they are best raised from seeds, and the young plants put
out early where they are to bloom. C. verticillata is of little service for
cutting, but owing to the finely divided foliage it is a desirable border
plant. Easily increased by division.
DELPHINIUn (Larkspur)— The species are numerous, most of them
being choice border perennials requiring deep, rich soil. They are propa-
gated principally by cuttings of the young growths in early Spring, from
seeds sown about the beginning of March, and by division of the roots
when dormant in Autumn or late Winter. D. grandiflorum and D.
formosum have numerous fine varieties, which are much grown for cut
flowers.
