190 HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
DIANTHUS— Carnation, Pink,
There are nearly a hundred distinct species, many of which are in cul-
tivation. Most of them are desirable as border or rockery plants. They
usually make dense tufts of grassy-like growths. Nearly all have attrac-
tive flowers. D. alpinus and I), glacialis are true Alpine plants, seldom
seen in cultivation, and thriving indifferently. D, barbatus is the Sweet
William. There are innumerableforms in cultivation. Good strains are
secured from seed. D. csesius (Cheddar Pink) stands our hot Summers
well— a useful speciesfor the rockery. D. deltoides and D.d.alba (Maiden
Pink), should be raised indoors during the Autumn months and planted
out early. A very free blooming species, D. petraeus (Rock Pink), grows
about 6 inches high. D. plumarius is the parent of the garden Pinks, of
which there are many named double sorts in cultivation. They are prop-
agated by cuttings taken in the Fall; they root very readily in cold
frames. Care must be taken to plant them out before they start into
growth in the Spring. C. chinensis, the Chinese Pink, is a biennial, and
to have it at its best it should be treated as such instead of as an annual.
When sown in Spring the plants will flower during Summer, but not
nearly as abundantly as from Autumn-raised plants. The varieties from
this species are numerous; all of the kinds are desirable, making very
handsome border plants of moderate size.
DIANTHUS CARYOPHYLLUS.
This is the species from which the Carnation of to-day has sprung.
Variation in the flowers, the result of continuous cultivation under arti-
ficial and highly favorable circumstances, produced in the first place,
well marked varieties; these variations were perpetuated b^^ cuttings,
and from them by means of cross-breeding and from sports distinct
races have been evolved, gradually showing a wider range of color aud
habit. In America the climatic conditions are peculiarly favorable for
the development of the flower under glass, and little by little a race has
been obtained perfectly adapted to Winter production of bloom. Not
many years have elapsed since the best cultivators of plants would have
predicted a short life for the Carnation raised under glass, and this
would probably be the case were its entire life, or rather the lives of
several generations, spent in this way. But the utmost vigor is imparted
to the plants shortly after the cutting stage is passed by their cultiva-
tion out-of-doors for the best part of the Summer. Another very favora-
ble means, which is without doubt highly instrumental in maintaining
and strengthening the vigor of the race, is the raising of new varieties
from seed. The development of the wonderful blooms of to-day, repre-
sented in such varieties as Winsor, Beacon, White Perfection, the forms
of Enchantress and others too numerous to mention, dates back only a
very few years when the bloomH were of very ordinary dimensions,
stems weak and ealyx often imperfect. Nearly every grower has been
more or less engaged in raising new forms by crossing varieties. The
work along this line presents no serious difllculties and while hundreds
of thousands of seedlings have been rejected, numerous meritorious new
ones come into prominence.
