102 HMtin IhliEWIAL PLAXTS.
Propagating House and Benches— The ideal propagating house is the
north part of a span-roofed house, with a partition of boards, leaving
a space of about 41/2 feet available for bench and passage way. The
latter need only be wade enough for one to move about in comfortably.
The floor should be made of concrete, so that it can be kept scrupulously
clean at all times. The length of the house should, of course, vary with
the needs of the establishment. The bench should run close up to the
side of the house and the front part, or that nearest the passageway,
nailed up with boards, wnth a swinging door on leather hinges every
few feet to increase or diminish the temperature of the sand by allowing
heat to escape. It is a good plan to have one of the ends hotter than
the other, not necessarily for Carnations, but for cuttings of other
plants. Yalves should be so arranged in the heating pipes of this part
of the establishment that the heat may be under perfect control to suit
the various uses to which it may be put. When a specially constructed
propagating house is not available, a part of an ordinary growing
house, preferably the north side, should be selected for the purpose. The
conditions favorable to the process of rooting are: Sufficient humidity
to prevent the cuttings from wilting, and protection against the suns
rays, which cause an evaporation of moisture from the leaves of the
cuttings greater than can be spared, owing to the inability of the cut-
ting to replace the loss quickly from the moisture in the sand.
Sand — When there is a choice, a rather large grained sand and one free
from all impurities should be selected; from 3 to 4 inches deep will be
sufficient.
Cuttings — These may be put in any time during the Winter months,
but February is the safest time for the ordinary crop. Those rooted
previous to that month are apt to put on a spindling growth. Re-
stricted root room has a tendency to f romote hardening of the stem
and firmness in the foliage, and w^hile the carnation is in reality an
evergreen shrub, it is a soft wooded one, and should be kept in a
growing state from the cutting to the flowering plant. The cuttings
are usually pulled from the plant; this is the worst possible method,
because the exceedingly delicate vessels in Ihe immediate neighborhood
of the break are strained and displaced, according to the tension exerted
in severing:. They strike all right, evidently so, but they should be
severed with a knife.
flaterial for Cuttings — In this as in other matters, judicious selection
of the material to form future plants will go a long way in determining
whether these plants will attain the maximum state in healthy vigor,
combined with flower productiveness. It does not take a very experi-
enced Carnationist to tell at a glance whether the growths are flabby,
as a result of being forced in too high and humid an atmosphere, or crisp
and stocky, owing to having been subjected to favorable conditions.
Grassy growths at the base of the plant are avoided, as they show a
tendency to perpetuate this condition to a degree unfavorable to florifer-
ousness. As the extra floriferous nature of a single branch of a tree or
shrub can be perpetuated by propagating from that branch, in like man-
