194 HARDY PERES SI. \L PLANTS.
ner the best material for cuttings is lortned on the flowering branches ot
the Carnation. They are fouud in the axils of the older leaves, and
should be taken when they tire from two 2 to 3 inches long.
Treatment During Rooting— The leaves of the cuttings are sometimes
shortened back at the tips, but tliis is immaterial, and the practice has
arisen probably through a desire to have the batch look uniform in size
and to economize spiice. Each cutting should be dibbled in by itself, to
insure perfect rooting conditions; but by making a cut in the sand with
a small, flat trowel, guided by a narrow strip of wood placed and held
firmly against the last row of cuttings (this precaution will prevent the
loosening of the sand next the cuttings by the action of the trowel), the
operation is hastened. The temperature should be from 50 to 5. de-
grees at first, increasing to 60 degrees later on. After rooting has com-
menced examine the cuttings so that potting or boxing may be completed
before the roots get weak in the sand. It may safely be commenced,
when the roots are three-quarters of an inch long, and finished before
they are over I14 inches. After the cuttings are potted, or boxed, keep
them shaded for a time, gradually giving them the benefit of full sun-
shine and an abundance of air Before planting out time they should be
removed to a cool frame. The soil may be made up of loam, leaf mould
and sand.
Planting in the Field— In this locality the plants are safe out in the
field by the end of March, but climatic conditions are the only safe guide
for different localities. The ground is previously prepared by manuring,
plowing and harrowing, and the ])lants set out 15 Inches apart
each w^ay, or 15 inches apart and 8 feet between the rows, according to
the method of cultivating. Let the plants be in the ground some time
before getting their first pinching. Cultivating must be assiduously
practiced during their stay in the field. It serves three purposes: Keeps
the roots cool, prevents loss of water by evaporation, and discourages
the growth of weeds. Flower shoots are nipped out as soon as they
appear until the plants have made sufficient growth, or a short time
before they are removed to their fiowering quarters.
Lifting and Planting — This is done at different seasons, sometimes
early, but usually in September. In some soils it is difficult to lift with
a ball; in others, easy. Some growers shake the soil from the roots,
no matter in what soil plants hav3 been grown. As the Carnation is
rapid in forming feeding roots it is easy to understand why it is desirable
to have the roots entirely in the most favorable soil, such as that with
which the benches should be filled; but the safer and more logical
method is to have a moderate amount of soil accompanying the roots
from the field to the bench. When the plants are lifted without soil
clinging to the roots they should be protected from the drying influence
of the atmosphere as much as possible. As soon as lifted place them in
a receptacle, from which they do not have to be removed until they are
planted in the bench soil. Put the roots about the same depth in the
bench as they were in the soil from which they were taken; make mod-
erately firm; water well and shade for the first few days. Use a shade
which is easily removed. A solution of freshly mixed Indurine may be
