^ARDY PERESNl iL PLANTS. 195
applied with a garden syringe ; test it before applying to ascertain if it
comes off easily, as it sometimes sticks on longer ttian wanted.
Planting in tlie House.— This is a practice which has become common
during the last few years, that is, putting the plants iuto the green-
house beds instead of planting out of doors. It has its advantages and
disadvantages. In the Winter months the cut is much larger than that
from field grown plants housed late in the season, but this advantage
is to a certain extent offset by having to discard the old plants in May
cr earlier to make room for the new ones and were all the carnations
planted after this method there would be no flowers during the Summer
mouths, therefore both methods will continue to have their advocates.
Soil— This should be of a friable loam, mixed thoroughly sometimein
advance of using with one-filth of its bulk of rotted stable manure. The
depth of soil may be from 4 to 5 inches. The plants are given space
according to the variety. In this connection it may be stated that a
good place to look for the kind of flow^er common 25 years ago is on a
bench, the soil of which is completely hidden by the plants. As much
light as possible should be admitted to all parts of the plant, and it is
as important that air should have free circulation among the plants.
Supports — The different methods are getting to be about as numerous
as the varieties of Carnations. A good circular wire support should be
easy to apply, easily removed and stored, give the minimum amount
of shade to the plants and be moderate in cost. Several of the designs
on the market are satisfactory in all of the above particulars, excepting
the cost, which, while as low as one could expect, is the only hindrance
to their use.
Temperature— A minimum temperature of 50 degrees, rising during
th,3 day to 65 degrees, will be found the proper range for the best r e suits
The humidity of the atmosphere must be greatest immediately after the
plants are benched to induce the formation of new feeding roots, grad-
ually reducing it when the plants show signs of having become estab-
lished.
Syringing— In dull weather there is usually enough moisture in the
atmosphere for the needs of the plants, so far as atmospheric conditions
are concerned. In bright, sunny weather, syringing should, of course,
be more frequently practiced. No rules can be laid down for this, how-
ever, as much depends upon the nature of the floor of the house in the
quantity of moisture it gives off, together with the condition of the
bench soil. If the atmosphere be too dry, combined with dryness at the
roots, the foliage suffers to a certain extent, producing conditions favor-
able for the attacks of red spider, aphides and fungoid diseases. To
strike the happy medium good judgment as the result of close observa-
tion will be necessary.
Feeding— The plants by their behavior will suggest the necessity for
this. When manure is given in the liquid state it should be weak and
applied often rather than in strong doses at long intervals. Top-dress-
ing with manures and fertilizers should be made the subject of careful
experiment. It is not safe to follow given rules, as what may suit some
soils will not act the same way with others.
Disbudding— The lateral buds should be removed as soon as they are
large enough to be handled. If allowed to develop, they are simply a
drain on the resources of the terminal bud; and, although they look
well with the flower, still large flowers without them bring higher prices.
Ventilation is of primary importance at all times. The houses ought to
be closed only when the outside temperature is too low to permit of airing.
