16 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
bush. When there is any choice In the matter the oldest berries should
be taken for sowing, as they will be the first to fall from the plant.
Wash the pulp from around the seed and sow immediately, cover the
seeds with a quarter of an inch of soil, firming well and giving the
pots or boxes a position in a cool house. Keep the soil moderately
damp, with abundance of air during mild weather. Conditions such as
these will give the seed ample time to germinate and make plants in 4-
inch pots by the following Fall. Cuttings root freely in sand, but do not
make as symmetrical plants as seedlings. When the old plants get leggy
the tops are easily rooted by making an incision in the stems and tying
moss around them. These tops make very fine dwarf specimens.
ASPARAGUS— As pot plants there are only three species of any value;
these are A. plumosus nanus, A. tenuissimus and A. Sprengeri.
A. plumosus is a very distinct plant from A. plumosus nanus and
probably is a distinct species. (See Vines).
A. plumosus nanus makes a profusion of short growths from the
base, and may be kept in this condition by pot culture and pinching
shoots that show a tendency to run up; for it will grow 30 feet high
under proper conditions. Dividing starved plants is the readiest
method of increasing stock. Wash out the roots and place the divisions
in moderately wet sand, to make a few roots before potting.
A. tenuissimus should be rooted from cuttings. Unlike the other
kinds it is easy to manage in this respect.
A. Sprengeri does best where its branches are allowed to hang down
instead of being planted in a bed like the better known A. plumosus
nanus. The ideal method is to have the plants in large wire baskets
suspended from the roof of a house; and where the plants underneath
dont suffer from drip or shade this system will work all right. Where
a large supply of this green is wanted the north wall of a house may be
used economically by erecting trough-like receptacles running the entire
length of the house. The top one may be as near the glass as possible,
the next in front 6 or 8 inches lower down, and so on, giving enough
room to prevent crowding of the branches. Old plants may be divided
for planting out, and for small specimens in pots, which are useful in
associating with ferns. Seedlings are easily raised. The plants ripen
seed in midwinter. If cleaned and sown as soon as ripe the seeds
germinate quickly.
.ASPIDISTRA — The usual way to increase the stock of these very valu-
able decorative plants is to divide up large specimens into small pieces,
potting and keeping close until they make fresh roots. A method requir-
ing a little more work, certainly, but giving salable plants in a shorter
period, and more of them, as every small piece will grow, is to shake the
old plants out, disentangle the rhizomes as carefully as possible, and
wash clean, saving every little piece that is likely to grow. Cut the rhi-
zomes into small pieces, with roots attached, and put in the sand bed
to make fresh roots; subsequently put in small pots and keep close for
a few days. A. elatior and A. elatior variegata are the ones most com-
