190 HARDY PERKS M A L PLAXTS.
Varieties — The best varieties to grow iu auy one place cannot be
pointed out except by experiment, as tliere is no variety which does
equally well iu all soils. When once the best sorts for any particular
soil are selected they should not be discarded until new and improved
or other kinds have been tested ior at least a season.
Carnations to Follow Chrysanthemums — Where Chrysanthemums are
grown in large numbers on benches it is sometimes difficult to decide
what should occupy the space vacated by them. Carnations have been
tried with successful results. Boxes with easily removed sides and ends
are placed close together iu the field, filled with suitable soil, and the
plants, six or eight, according to the width of the bench, put out in each
box. On the approach of unfavorable weather the plants are given the
protection of a frame until the indoor space is ready for them. The bot-
toms of the boxes are of stout material, and when placed side by side
on the frame work of the bench they may either be laid on the old bench
boards or take their place. Soil is added after they are in position, to
make the surface level. If necessary, rested roses may be substituted
for Carnations. Souvenir du President Carnot and Kaiserin Augusta
Victoria give good satisfaction by this method.
MARGUERITE CARNATIONS— These were introduced about eighteen
years ago as Summer flowering Carnations. They are very free in
blooming, fragrant, and quite varied in color. To have an early crop
of flowers seedlings may be wintered in frames, and another sowing
made early in March. In most places they may be safely put out in
April.
DICENTRA SPECTABILIS (Bleeding Heart).— One of the most beauti-
ful herbaceous plants in cultivation, flowering usually in May, splendidly
adapted for forcing. It is one of the flrst plants to push its growths
above the soil. In some localities it is apt to suffer from late frosts.
The time for propagating is just before the plant starts into growth.
Division of the crowns is the most reliable method. Dig up the plants,
saving every root; wash free of soil and preserve every piece of the plant
having a bud. Those pieces of the roots which are not necessary to the
buds should be cut into lengths of about 3 inches and put in boxes, keep-
ing them uniformly moist. While ttiey will not all grow, a certain pro-
portion of them will pay for the labor. The divided pieces may be potted
or boxed, according to fancy, using sandy soil to induce a good growth.
Pieces of the crown on which there is a number of buds, but not enough
roots to warrant further division, may be gently forced into growth,
and when the young shoots are of sufficient length, taken off and rooted.
D. eximia is not so tall growing as the above named; the leaves are
more finely divided and the flowering period is much longer.
DICTAMNUS FRAXINELLA (Burning Bush)— A good, old-fashioned
border plant, growing 2 feet in height, with spikes of red or white
flowers. The plants should be given a good permanent position, as they
dislike removal. Increased by seed.
DIGITALIS PURPUREA (Foxglove, Witches Thimbles)— One of the
most stately of hardj- perennials. The flowers, which are large and bell-
