198 HARpy IKREXXfAl. ILAXTS.
shai)ed. are arranged in very long racemes. The color is usually rose
and white. Although i)erennial, it is generally treated as a biennial.
I^lants are easily raised from seeds.
DODECATHEON (American Cowslip)— D. media, grows In shaded
positions, but it makes most of its growth while the surrounding trees
are leatiess. The soil is composed largely of vegetable humus. Most of
the species thrive well, but are not much grown in gardens; this is
probably because their period of bloom is short and the plants are apt
to be lost sight of and neglected when out of bloom. D. Clevelandiiand
D. Hendersonii are Californian species of great beauty. The seeds
should be sown In places where they can remain undisturbed for at least
a year, as after germinating little progress Is made the first season
beyond the formation of a root stock.
DORONICUM (Leopards Bane)— Useful plants, with yellow, daisy
like flowers, blooming in May. D. plantagineum excelsum is one of the
best. Other good kinds are D. austriacum, D. caucasicum and D. par-
dalianches. They should be increased by division in the Fall.
ERPETION (Viola) RENIFORA\E— A very dwarf plant, covering the
ground rapidly by means of runners, which are thrown out in great
profusion. It blooms all Summer if given a shaded position on the rock-
ery. The flowers are small, blue and white: very showy. It will thrive
inany kind of soil if kept slightly moist duriug dry weather. In the lati-
tude of Washington. D. C, it is perfectly hardy. It is increased by seeds
or by divisit)n.
FARFLGIUM GRANDE— This fine Japanese plant is now known as
Senecio Krempferi aureo-maculata. It is one of the best plants for
the dwelling house. There is a beautiful kind with white spotted
leaves, which I have only grown for a couple of seasons, but I
suppose it to be as hardy as the yellow spotted one, which, by the way
lias stood outdoors at Washington, D. C, for the last 24 years. Old
plants, with numerous growths, will stand division best in early Spring.
Give the pieces a week in the sand bed previous to potting, in order to
start new roots. They thrive well in a loamy soil, well drained. The
pieces are potted after midsummer in a compost consisting largely of
leaf mould and sand, placed uuder cover of sash on the approach of cold
weather, to preserve the leaves in a fresh state, and brought indoors
when wanted to bloom.
FATSIA (Aralia) PAPYRIFERA (Rice Paper Plant)— In this latitude the
plants are annually killed to the ground, but they send up shoots in
Spring from the roots, which grow very rapidly, making very attractive
growths, sometimes 6 feet high, so that it may be treated as an herba-
ceous plant instead of a shrub, which it really is in its native country
and in localities with mild Winters. Its habit of growth resembles to a
certain extent that of the Castor Bean, but the plant is furnished with
leaves and retains them from the ground up all through the season.
Propagation is by pieces of the roots cut into lengths of 2 or 3 inches.
