HARDY PEREXMAL PLAXTS. l^v.
The operation may be performed any time late in Fall, or Tery early in
Spring. The roots should be put in boxes of soil and started into
growth in a greenhouse about the beginning of March. When potted
they may be put in a cold frame early. (See also page 173.)
FERULA COriMUNIS— This plant is grown principally for its very
large, handsome leaves, which are very much divided, giving it a
feathery appearance. The leaves, which are sometimes 5 feet in width
and fully as long, are divided seven times, the leaflets being only one six-
teenth of an inch broad. The flower stalks attain a height of from 6 to
10 feet. It is one of the earliest plants to show above ground, some-
times pushing up the first leaves late in the Fall. After blooming, which
occurs about midsummer, it goes to rest, losing all of its leaves before
the end of July. The seeds, which are ripened in great abundance,
should be sown about the middle of March and encouraged to make all
the growth possible before the resting period.
FRAGARIA INDICA (Rock Strawberry)— The flowers of this species
are bright yellow. The fruit is dark red and produced all through the
Summer and early Fall months. It sometimes increases so rapidly that
it becomes a weed.
FUNKIA (Plantain Lily)— A small genus of very handsome folia^?and
flowering plants of the Lily family; most of them are from Japan. There
are numerous garden forms all well worth growing, as they make large
clumps, and the foliage is, in every case, ornamental. All the variegated
forms are well marked, preserving their leaves well all through the sea-
son, and thrive with little attention.
F. ovata has blue or white flowers and large, broad leaves. The va-
riety F. o. marginata has the foliage margined with white. F. lanicifo-
lia, one of the species most frequently met with, has short, narrow
leaves: flowers small, white, with a purplish tinge. This has several
prettily variegated forms. All of the kinds are propagated by division
of the crowns early in the season. If divided to single growths the pieces
should be potted and kept under cover for a time to encourage growth.
They thrive best in heavy, rich, loamy soil.
F. Sieboldiana is a strong-growing species, with large glaucous leaves.
The flowers are white, tinged with lilac— a very desirable species thriving
well in sun or shade.
F. subcordata has very large, pure white flowers on long stalks. The
leaves are light green, but somewhat soft. In places exposed to full
sunshine the foliage is apt to suffer; it should therefore have partial
shade. Blooming late in the season, it is one of the handsomest herba-
ceous plants in cultivation.
GAILLARDIA ARISTATA— There are several handsome flowered varie-
ties in cultivation. They are exceedingly effective border plants. Raised
from seed in August or September.
GALAX APHYLLA— A dwarf evergreen, the leaves of which are much
used by florists in forming backgrounds for floral pieces. It thrives well
