200 HARDY PIJRENXIAL ILAXTS.
in partial shade in the rockery- Increased by division before growth
begins.
GENTIAN A (Gentian)— Although these are among the most beautiful
of hardy plants they will not pay the florist to handle them. With one
or two exceptions the kinds which are so popular in northern Europe
do not succeed in the Middle Atlantic States. Our hot, dry Summers are
against them. G. Andrewsii and G. saponaria are both natives. They
may be i3lanted in half-shaded situations, where their roots will pene-
trate deeply.
QERANlUn SANGUINEUn— This species is about the only satisfac-
tory one in the genus for our hot, dry Summers. For rock work it is
probably the best all-round plant grown. It seldom invades the terri-
tory of other plants, never looks weedy, and is in flower from early till
late. The flowers are solitary, about I1/2 inches across, crimson. Prop-
agated by division, or from seed. The plant is quite hardy.
GYPSOPHILA— G. paniculata is grown to a considerable extent for
cutting. The flowers are small, whitish, but produced in great profu-
sion, in large panicles. Increased by seeds. The seedlings must get all
the light possible, as they are very liable to get weak if kept at all
shaded. G. prostrata is a very dwarf species suitable for rock work.
Increased from cuttings in Spring or Fall.
HELIANTHUS (Sunflower)— The perennial species are, for the most
part, useful late blooming plants. In favorable positions some of the
species grow very tall. They are among the easiest plants to increase
by division. H. decapitatus, single flowered, usually grows about ( feet
high. H. a. multiflorus varies considerably; in some forms the florets
are arranged like those in the anemone-flowered chrysanthemum; other
forms have them of a uniform size. A most useful plant for supplying
cut bloom. H. orgyalis blooms in September. H. rigidus and H. mollis
are both good species.
HELLEBORUS (Christmas Rose)— There are about a dozen species,
with numerous varieties principally of hybrid origin. All of them are
well worth growing because of their early-blooming nature. H. niger is
the true Christmas Rose, which, under favorable conditions, will some-
times flower in December, and in colder parts of the country it comes
into bloom after one or two genial days. H. u. altifolius has flowers
much larger than the type. H. colchicus, a species with deep purple
flowers, blooms early in March. H. orieritalis (the Lenten Rose) has
rose-colored flowers — one of the best in this latitude. Among its many
varieties H. o. guttatus is white flowered with purple-spotted sepals.
Propagation is effected by root division. Seeds of most of them are
freely ripened. If sown as soon as gathered, and kept in a cold frame,
thf^y germinate well; but the seedlings take two or three years to make
flowering plan :s.
HEMEROCi^LLIS (Day Lily) — H. fulva, the species so common in
waste places all over the Eastern States, is not a native; but with H.
flava, less commonly seen, it has escaped from cultivation. H. graminea
