202 HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
is the earliest to bloom, opening during the latter half of May. H.
Dumortieri has orange-yellow flowers tinged with brown. H. Midden-
dorfii is deep golden yellow. The rarer species are successfully raised
from seed sown in Summer as soon as ripe, and the young plants
allowed to remain in the seed boxes until the following Spring, when
they may be planted out in rows to increase in size. The double flowered
and variegated forms of H. fulva should be increased by division. They
are all desirable border plants.
HEUCHERA (Alum Root)— Of this genus there are some twenty species
native of North America, most of which are hardly worth cultivating.
There is one, however, which is rightly considered as being among the
most ornamental of late Spring blooming perennials; this is H. san-
guinea. It has long panicles of reddish pink or white flowers. Large
plants which show signs of v^eakness should be lifted, divided, and re-
planted. They will need thib treatment about once in two years, as they
are inclined to get weak when they remain long in one place. October
is the best month for dividing. Seeds should be sown during March, in
the greenhouse. The seedlings are quite small at first, and they should
be allowed to make considerable headway before being potted off.
HEPATICA TRILOBA— One of the earliest Spring-flowering plants.
In their native habitats they are usually found growing on southern
slopes partially shaded by the foliage of trees and shrubs in Summer,
but with the benefit of full sunshine when developing flowers and seeds.
Of the above species the varieties are very numerous, some of them hav-
ing been long under cultivation in European gardens, where they are
highiy prized. H. t. rubra is bright red; H. t. alba, white; H. t. c(pru-
lea, lilac. There are also double red and double blue varieties, the
former being very common, the latter somewhat scarce. H. angulosa
is a distinct species, with very large, blue flowers. If allowed to remain
in the same position for several years they form very large clumps. Prop-
agation of the varieties is easiest accomplished by division in Autumn.
IBERIS (Candytuft)— The perennial species are in reality dwarf, ever-
green shrubs. They are attractive in appearance all the year round.
They come in bloom the latter part of April and last till the end of May.
There are about half a dozen species and varieties. I. sempervirens and
I. s. superba are the best; they grow from 9 to 12 inches high. I. sem-
perfloreus is a taller growing species with large, pure white flowers. I.
Tenoreana grows about 6 inches high. It blooms in May; flowers pur-
plish white. I. correjefoha has the flowers in flat, compact heads. I.
gibraltarica is the largest of all; the flowers are white tinged with pink.
It is somewhat straggling in growth. I. g. hybrida Is more compact,
with the flowers at first white, changing to rosy purple. Although most
of the species produce seed freely enough the seedlings are of a straggUug
growth for the first season. Much better plants are raised from good-
sized cuttings taken at the end of September, and put in sand, in a cold
propagating frame. If kept close and moist they will root well. The
cuttings, when rooted, should be put in 3-inch pots, and plunged in a
cold frame for the Winter
