STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 17
monly grown. It is said that A. lurida is tiardy as far North as Phila-
delphia.
ASPLENIUM— See Ferns.
AZALEA — Indian Azaleas used so extensively for Winter and Spring
flowering are European grown. They arrive in the Fall in wonderfully
good condition, as a rule.
The Newly Imported Plants — These should not be potted in the first
kind of soil that comes to hand; rather choose that which is as far as
possible like the material in which they have been grown. Firm potting
is very very important. The rootlets are exceedingly fine and they make
but little progress in loose soil when in pots. Examine the roots care-
fully before potting, and if the balls are at all dry, stand them in a tub of
water until wet through; allow to drain, then pot. This treatment
should be given to all plants of the same nature, such as Andromedas,
Kalmias, Ericas, Epacris and Rhododendrons, as they all have roots of
the same nature. For the first week or two after potting put the plants
in a deep frame with the sash kept on ; and for those which are meant
for later flowering this frame, if frost can be kept out of it, will be the
proper place to Winter the plants. All of these plants should be grown
without manure of any kind.
Removing Side Qrowi:hs— Azalea plants which for forcing purposes are
in a comparatively hisfh temperature, and otherwine under conditions
with which they are unaccustomed, will push out grow^ths at the banes
of the flower buds; especially is this the case with plants the roots of
which are in perfect order. This tendency is shown less earlier in the
season than later on, but whenever it does occur, the sooner the growth »*
are removed the better are the chances for the perfect development of
the flowers.
Treatment During Summer— Azalea plants left unsold in Spring will
increase in value if they are properly handled during the Summer
months. It pays to grow on imported Azaleas, from small plants into
big ones, because, when lifted in the Fall, they are equally as good as, if
not better than, imported plants for geueral use, and much better for
forcing. About the beginning of May stand the plants which have been
in the greenhouse in a cold frame or a sheltered spot outside, to gradu-
ally harden them off previous to putting them in the ground, so that
when that operation is performed they will not get chilled at the roots.
In a few days prepare a bed for them; dig a trench of sufficient size for
the balls, keeping the sizes together. Scatter a couple of inches of leaf
mould and sand in the trench; knock the plants out of their pots, if
necessary reduce the balls a little; place in the trench, fill in with a mix-
ture of leaf soil, sand and loam, ramming it firm around them. Some
lath slats on very hot days, pinchings when necessary and frequent
waterings with the hose, will be all that is required for the next five
months. At the expiration of that time they will have ripened their
growth for the season, when they may be lifted and the balls reduced in
size so as to go comfortably into the proper-sized pots.
BEGONIA — This genus is a deservedly popular one, as it possesses
numerous species and varieties, useful either as greenhouse, window or
