206 jfAiinv r!:i:i:\\f.\f. /LAMS.
IRIS— A lar^e ^enuK. There arc fully 100 Bpecios ; the varieties
of some of them are numerous. The genus is divided into two sections,
[p one section, known as Xii)hions, the species have tuberous root-
stocks; one or two of them, such as I. reticulata and 1. persica, produce
the flowers before the leaves. Most of the species have thick rhizomes,
which creep along the surface of the soil, or a short distance beneath.
To this section most of the very numerous garden varieties belong. They
are known as German Irises, but having been in cultivation for a long
time, it is impossible to tell just from what species some of them have
originated. The species which are commonly included among the Ger-
man Irises are I. neglecta, I. squalens, I. variegata and I. germanica.
Numerous varieties have sprung from each species, and from these there
are evidently many cross breeds. 1. germanica is a handsome species.
I. g. alba is pure white, very early in blooming, and forces well. I. g.
velveteen has dark purple falls and standards. The flowers of the
known varieties of the I. phylla have a white ground, with the margins
marked lavender and purple. Mme. Chereau is a well-known form.
I. plicata is white frilled with blue. The varieties of I. am(ena have the
standards usually white and the falls variously marked with violet blue.
In I. variegata the very numerous varieties have the standards yellow;
the falls are of a wide range of color — dark yellow, maroon, dark purple
and crimson brown. The forms of I. squalens have the standards copper-
bronk-e and fawn colored, and the falls among other colors are maroon,
purple, bronzy-yellow, violet and lavender. I. pallida has lavender
standards, and the falls of the same color shaded with rose. I. p. dal-
matica is a very large and sweetly-scented flower— one of the best in
cultivation; the standards and falls are deep lavender. In the varieties
of I. neglecta the standards range in color from lavender to purple, and
the falls crimson, purple, violet, white and intermediate shades. I.
florentina is almost pure white, and comes into flower from the 15th to
the end of May. I. pumila, a d warf species, is usually out of bloom early
in May ; it has many fine varieties. I. cristata is a native of the Eastern
States, and is well adajjted for half-shaded places in the rockery. It is
the dwarfest of all the rhizomatous species. 1. versicolor and I. pseudo-
acorus, although thriving under conditions which suit most of the gar-
den forms, will do better when the soil is continually moist. I. graminea
and I. sibirica are both worthy of cultivation; they have long, narrow
leaves, and small flowers. I. la-vigata, better known as I. Kfempferi,
will also thrive in borders, especially when given a deep mulch of well-
rotted manure; but they show up to better advantage when grown in
fairly moist ground. This species is one of the latest to bloom; it has
many varieties, some of which are very large and showy. The expanded
flowers, when used for cutting, will not stand much handling; but the
buds, when nearly full size, will open out when placed in water; in this
condition they may be shipped long distances.
Propagation — Most of the bulbous species are offered at reasonable
prices by dealers. The rhizomatous species and forms may be rapidly
increased by division. Large masses may be reduced in size and re-
planted early in March without interfering with the cropiof flowers. In
dividing into smaller pieces, it is better to wait until the plants have
