208 HARDY PEIihWMAL PJ.AXTS.
completed their growth, when they may be cut in small pieces, heeled Id
where they are slightly protected in Winter, and put in permanent posi-
tions in March or April. They will stand a rich soil, but should not be
deeply planted, as thej are then liable to decaj during wet weather in
Summer and Autumn.
KINIPHOFIA ALOIDES— Better known as Tritoma uvaria (Torch
Lily,) is an old-fashioned, border plant with long, narrow, dark green
leaves and tall spikes of flowers, at first coral red, changing to orange,
and subsequently to a greenish yellow. It is a native of South Africa,
and in localities where the Winters are severe it should, along with the
other species and varieties, be protected by covering the crowns with
half-decayed leaves or stable litter. K. a. maxima has larger flowers.
K. Macowani, is an orange-red flowered species. K. Leichtlinii is one of
the tallest of the species. There are numerous hybrid forms, all of them
desirable for the herbaceous border. They thrive best in deep rich soil, and
in fully exposed situations. Seedlings of most of the kinds may be
raised, but they are somewhat slow in making flowering plants. Old
specimens are easily divided, and give good-sized pieces to start with.
LEONTOPODIUn ALPINUH (Edelweiss)— Although a native of the
Alps of Switzerland this plant thrives luxuriantly when planted out on
rockwork fully exposed to the sun. Seedlings are best raised in Septem-
ber and wintered in pots, in a cold frame. When planting out put some
Hat pieces of stone around the bases of the plants.
LESPEDEZA SIEBOLDI, also known at Desmodium penduliflorum.
The plant has a shrub-like growth, reaching from 4 to 6 feet in height.
The flowers, which are small and pea-shaped, are very numerously pro-
duced in long, pendulous-branched panicles late in the season. The
color is rose-purple. L. japonica has pure white flower-. Cuttings
taken before the flowers appear w ill root freely. They should be kept
indoors to encourage growth before going to rest. Old plants may be
divided before starting into growth.
LINDELOFIA SPECTABILIS — A low-growing borage-wort, with
liandsome, bluish-red flowers. It grows 12 to 18 inches high. It is a
very reliable herbaceous plant, quite hardy and stands the sun well. If
seeds are sown latein Summer, the plants will bloom the following season.
LOBELIA— The native species L. cardinalis and L. syphilitica are, in
this latitude, much more satisfactory than any of the gaudy-flowered
forms of L. fulgens and L. splendens. Seedlings should be raised in late
Summer to provide flowering plants the following season. L. cardinalis
is among the handsomest of herbaceous plants; the flowers are bright
scarlet. It must have abundance of water when growing. L. syphi-
litica, a blue flowered species, will succeed well in a drier soil.
LYCHNIS — There are numerous species in this genus which are desira-
ble as border or rockery plants. L. vespertina flore-pleno has large
double white flowers; increased by root cuttings. When sown latein
Autumn and kept indoors, seedlings of L. fulgens and its varieties are in
good condition for planting out by April. The scarlet Lychnis, L. chal-
