2X0 HARDY PEREXXTAL PLAXTS.
cedonica, is a midsummer bloomer: it should be lifted and replauted
every second year. The double kinds are increased by division. The
double flowered variety of L. viscaria has an extended blooming period.
It is an erect-growing plant, usually about a foot high, with rosy red
flowers. Best increased by division in early Spring.
L. coronaria (Agrostemma)— This plant has silvery-gray foliage,
which in itself would be sufficient to insure a place for it in the herba-
ceous border. The flowers, however, are exceedingly showy. The type
has red blossoms. There are varieties with crimson, pink and white
flowers. Seeds should be sown in September; the seedlings pricked off
Into boxes and wintered in a cold frame. They should be planted out
very early.
LYSiyviACHIA (Loosestrife)— Most of the species are of weedy growth
and increase rapidly. L. nummularia is the Money-wort or Creeping
Jenny ; useful as a creeper or for hanging baskets or vases. There is a
beautiful form with yellowish leaves. L. clethroides is a handsome spe-
cies, growing from 2 to 3 feet high; the flowers, which are white, are
arranged in long, drooping spikes. It is readily propagated by division.
LYTHRUM SALICARIA (Purple Loosestrife)— This species grows from
3 to 4 feet high. The flowers are of a rosy-purple color. Increased by
division.
MERTENSIA VIRGINICA (Virginian Cowslip)— There are several
species of Mertensia all worth cultivating, but unfortunately some are
not so easily grown as M. virginica. This is by far the showiest species,
and if the conditions under which it grows in a wild state are imitated,
there will be no difficulty in its cultivation. In Spring most of its
growth is made without shade — that is, before the trees are in leaf. It is
usually found in damp woods. In this locality its period of blooming is
from April 15 to the middle of May. It grows from 12 to 18 inches high.
The leaves have a slightly glaucous hue; the flowers are arranged in
drooping terminal clusters, reddish-purple in the bud, subsequently
changing in the open flower to a beautiful light blue. It is one of our
handsomest native plants. Propagated by division.
nONARDA (Horse Mint)— These plants, although not averse to
moisture, will thrive in very dry soil. There are several species, and one
or two varieties common in gardens. The best known is M. didyma, a
species with bright scarlet heads of flowers. M. fistulosa has purple
flowers. M. f. alba is pure white. They are in bloom during midsum-
mer, and among the easiest plants to increase by division.
nORlNA LONGIFOLIA— A very choice perennial, reaching 2 feet in
height. The flowers are produced in whorls arranged on a long stalk.
The buds are white, changing later to pink and crimson. Seeds of this
species are easily obtainable. When sown in Spring they do not boom
till the following year.
riYOSOTIS (Forget=me=not)— In this genus there are numerous species,
most of which are of little value. M. dissitiflora and M. sylvatica are
commonly cultivated. Seeds may be sown late in Summer to have
