HARDY PEREXNIAL PLANTS. 211
bushy flowering plants for Spring blooming. There are blue, white, and
pink forms. In Washington, D. C, they are planted in the Public Gar-
dens, and along with Pansies they bloom during April and May. They
are sometimes effectively used among Hyacinths and Tulips, in well-
protected spots, keeping up a good display of bloom until the time
arrives for filling the beds with their usual Summer occupants.
(ENOTHERA (Evening Primrose)— Handsome plants for rock work
or border. Oi. Lamarckiana grows to a height of 5 feet; flowers yel-
low. It is biennial induration. QE. Fraseri is a dwarf species suitable for
the rockery. O^:. missouriensis has large yellow flowers on trailing stems.
G3. taraxacifolia is a trailer, with very large, pure white flowers, open-
ing at night. Plants come up freely from self-sown seed. G5. eximia is
a choice dwarf species, with very large white flowers. GE. amoena var.
rubicunda has the flowers deep rose colored; there are several forms.
All of the kinds are raised from seed sown in September.
ONONIS (Restharrow)— O. rotundifolia is a very desirable dwarf,
shrub-like plant, with pea-shaped rose colored flowers. Raised from
seed. A native of southern Europe.
ONOSHA STELLULATUM V. TAURICUM— A dwarf, evergreen plant,
forming dense tufts of narrow hairy leaves. The flowers, which are
bright yellow, tubular, and 1VL inches long, are arranged in branching
cymes. The plant is best propagated by seeds, and by cuttings of the
ripened growths taken during the end of September. They must be
rooted cool.
OPHIOPOGON— Dwarf evergreen plants, with grass-like foliage. The
most useful species is O. gracilis; it is used for planting in dense shade
where few other plants thrive. The leaves are narrow; flowers small,
white, followed by beautiful blue berries, which continue on the plant
all Winter. Increased bj division in Spring. A. Jaburan is a taller spe-
cies; the variegated form is a handsome plant. O. japonicus has also
a variegated form. Both of these are successfully propagated by early
division. In this locality they stand the Winters unharmed.
OROBUS (Lathyrus) VERNUS (Bitter Vetch)— This species comes in
bloom during April and lasts only for a short time. The flowers on
opening are purple and blue, the purple changing to blue as the blossoms
mature. Seeds should be sown as soon as ripe. As the plants make
but little headway during the first season, they should be allowed to
remain in the seed pan till the following Spring. There are several
other desirable species, such as O. pannonicus, O, flaccidus and O.
aurantius.
PACHYSANDRA— There are only two species in this genus, both of
which are in cultivation, P. procumbens is a North American plant.
The flowers are very inconspicuous, produced in March and April at the
bases of the stems made the preceding year. In. P, terminalis they are
situated on the ends of the shoots. Both species are evergreen. P. ter-
minalis is of a brighter green than P. pachysandra. They are very use-
ful for planting under trees; are deep-rooting and stand drought well.
Increased by division.
