212 IlMiDY riJR/:N\IAL PLANTS.
PAEOIVIA (Paeony, Peony, or Piony)— This genus is divided into two
sections or sub-genera— Shrubby and Herbaceous— the last-named sec-
tion is subdivided into three groups, with well marked botanical charac-
ters. The double-tiowering herbaceous kinds, which bloom during the
latter part of May and in June, are varieties of 1*. albitlora. There are
hundreds of kinds in cultivation, varying in color from white through
the different shades of pink to deep crimson. Their successful culture
demands a deep and well-manured soil, with a heavy mulching of
manure during the Winter and Spring months. The varieties of the
European Preonies come Into flower several weeks in advance of the
Chinese varieties. P. officinalis has double rose, red, and pinkish-white
forms. P. paradoxa fimbrlata has double purple flow^ers. P. tenuifolia
flore-pleno bears medium-sized double flowers, bright crimson in color.
The leaves of this species are of a feathery nature. It is one of the most
distinct and handsome Pieonies in cultivation. There are several showy
European species, some of which have numerous single-flowered varie-
ties. They all bloom much earlier than the Chinese Pseonies, and are
useful for the embellishment of the herbaceous border and for cutting.
P. anomala blooms during the first week in May; this sor.: is sometimes
sold as P. tenuifolia. The leaf divisions are fewer than in that species
and broader. P. a. insignis has crimson flowers. P. arietina is the
earliest species to flower, expanding in this locality by the end of April.
There are about a dozen distinct varieties. P, Wltmanniana is another
early bloomer. Of P. officinalis and P. peregrina there are numerous
single-flowered varieties. The Herbaceous Pji^onies are increased by
seeds and by division of the crowns. The seeds are sown as soon as ripe,
so that they may germinate the folhjwiug Spring. They should be
sown in a frame, and allowed to remain for a year before transplanting.
Old plants are best divided in October; excejit with rare kinds the
divided pieces should be Inrge. Plant deep enough to make certain of
the crowns being well beneath the surface.
PAPAVER (Poppy) — In the Herbaceous section of this popular genus
P. orieutale and its variety P. o. bracteatum are the most important
kinds. There are several forms of each, varying chiefly in the colors oi
the flowers. MoHt of them are of different sliades ot scarlet, and very
large. The plants, according to variety, vary in height from li/otoS
feet. They bloom during May and June, according to locality. The
stock is best increased by seed. When the capsul s show sigus of ripen-
ing they should be carefully watched, as they open at the top, and a
slight movement of the atmosphere will displace the seeds. Sow in
boxes soon as ripe, but not too thickly, so as to do away with the
necessity of pricking off — an operation which does not succeed as well
as could be wishei. The seedlings will make sufficient headway to pass
the Winter securely in a cold frame. During March bring into a cool
house, and when they show signs of growing pot off into 2V2 or 3-inch
pots, accordiui? to size. They should always be planted from pots, as
they do not lift well.
P. nudicaule is a choice species with orange, yellow or white flowers.
The double forms are often grown for cut flowers. In the warmer parts
