214 HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
ofthecountry the plants will succeed fairly well if they be raised from seed
sown during September, and either planted out late or wintered in a
frame and put out very early. In the colder parts plants are freely
raised from self-sown seed. It is a species which dislikes extreme heat.
PENTSTEMON — The garden varieties are the offspring of P. gentia-*
noides and P. Cobaea. In localities where climatic conditions are favor-
able they are much prized. In this section they are short-lived, owing
to the extreme heat. There are many extremely handsome species. P
(Chelone) barbatus and P. b. Torreyi will thrive almost anywhere, as
they cover the ground with dense, short growths. The flowers are pro-
duced in panicles about 3 feet high; they vary in color from light pink
to carmine. The Pentstemons are very easily increased, at almost any
time, by division.
PHLOX— P. subulata (Moss Pink) is the parent of many beautiful
forms extensively used for the edges of borders and for rock work. In
April they are covered with myriads of flowers close to the foliage.
Among the white-flowered forms are P. s. Nelsoni, P. s. aristata and
P. s. nivalis. P. s. Vivid has rose-colored flowers with carmine center.
P. s. frondosa is a pink variety with dark center. Their propagation is
usually effected by cuttings — a slow method. If the plants are kept sup-
plied with water during September they will emit roots at the bases of
the principal growths, and during October these may be cut up and
heeled in on a sheltered border, potted, or removed to permanent posi-
tions, very early in Spring. Other desirable dwarf species are P. amoena,
P. reptans and P. divaricata. The well-known and deservedly popular
herbaceous Phloxes are divided into two sections, early and late flower-
ing. The first or early blooming section is known as P. suffruticosa,
being varieties of P.glaberrima suffruticosa. The late blooming section
is known as P. decussata, and among the species which have contri-
buted varieties are P. maculata and P. paniculata. The varieties are
exceedingly numerous. In recent years some very beautiful forms have
been sent out. They stand well as cut flowers. The plants should be
lifted, divided and replanted every second year, as when they remain
long without removal the panicles are small. Early in March is the
best time for the operation. Cuttings may be taken from the plants as
they start into growth and rooted in a temperature suitable for Carna-
tion cuttings. The growths will be much improved by a heavy mulch-
ing of manure about the crowns during the growing season.
PHYGELIUS CAPENSIS is hardy in places where the mercury does not
fall lower than 10 degrees F. The trouble with this very desirable plant
is that it continues to grow during the Autumn months instead of going
to rest. The growth made at this period, however, furnishes good
material for cuttings, which, if put in the sand bed of a cool house, will
root iH a few^ days. They may be wintered in a cold frame.
PHYSALIS FRANCHETTI— The attractive feature of this plant is the
large red-colored calyx, enclosing a large berry of the same color. It is
apt to encroach on other plants, so rapidly do the uuderground stems
spread.
