216 HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
PLATYCODON GRANDIFLORUM (Chinese Bellflower)— An erect grow-
ing plant, with rtowers resembling those of the Campanula. P. g.
Mariesii is a variety of dvvarfer habit, and bears larger flowers. The
roots are thick and fleshy. Seedlings raised early in Spring sometimes
bloom late the same season.
PRinULA (Primrose)— There are few of the species but what are
worth growing. xMany of them, however, are unsuited to the chmate
of the Eastern States, it being too cold in Winter and too hot in Sum-
mer. A few of the species and many of their varieties do well. P. vul-
garis and the varieties with double yellow, red, purple, white, and lilac
flowers succeed well if they are given water during the growing period.
They will even stand in almost full sunshine, but they thrive best in half-
shaded spots. All of them are best increased by division very early in
the season. P. elatior is the Oxlip, and what is known as the Cowslip
is P. veris. The Polyanthus is a garden race, said to be a hybrid be-
tween the last-named species and P. vulgaris. The different varieties
are useful for rock work and for borders. A good selection of forms may
be had from seed sown in Spring; but the plants will not bloom until
the second year. Some of the Himalayan species do fairly w?ll in this
latitude if given a position shaded from sun in Winter and mulched in
Summer. P. denticulata and its forms are among the best. P. sikki-
mensis should be tried in damp, shady ground by the margins of lakes.
P. cortusoides Sieboldii produces pure white, crimson and lilac colored
flowers; very useful for cutting. The plants have creeping root stocks,
and thrive best when protected by a frame in Winter. In the Fall those
plants which are to remain in the open during Winter should be gone
over, and those which have their crowns above the surface of the soil
lifted and replanted, so that the roots may be protected.
RUDBECKIA (Coneflower)— Nearly all of the species are worthy of a
place in the herbaceous border. A few of them are valuable for supply-
ing cut flowers. R. 8peciosa(R. Newmanni) grows from 2 to 3 feet high;
the color of the outer florets is orange-yellow, while those in the center
are almost black. R. maxima is a much taller species, valuable for cut-
ting. R. laciniata attains a height of 4 feet. The variety known as
Golden Glow has large double yellow flowers; the best of all for cutting.
R. purpurea (Echinacea purpurea) has purple florets. Some of the spe-
cies are easily raised from seeds, but most of them may be divided freely
if the work is done before they make much growth in Spring.
SALVIA PRATENSIS— This species has very long spikes of flowers in
bright blue, rose, and white. They flower in May, and are exceedingly
attractive. They all seed freely, and if sown early in the Fall, will
bloom the following Spring. S. azurea and S. a. grandiflora are tall-
growing species, with blue flowers. They are easily increased from cut-
tings in the Fall months.
SANGUINARIA CANADENSIS (Blood Root)— A dwarf-growing native
plant that, in sunny positions, is one of the earliest to open its flowers,
which are pure white, about 2 inches across. It is increased from seeds
and by division.
I
