218 HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
SANTOLINA INCANA (Cotton Lavender) is a dwarf, shrubby plant
■with silvery-white fragrant foliage. It will thrive in almost any posi-
tion with very little attention. Cuttings should be put in during the
first half of October; they will root in a cold frame.
SAPONARIA OFFICINALIS (Bouncing Bet. )— Naturalized over a wide
area in the United States. The flowers are usually double. S. ocy-
moides is one of the best rockwork trailers. It passes the Winter with
a mass of short growths near the crown; these, on the approach of
warm weather, grow very fast, subsequently forming wide-spreading
masses of light or dark pink flowers. S. o. splendidissima has rosy-
crimson flowers. The plants are in full bloom during the latter part of
May, with scattering flowers for a long time after. Seeds should be
sown in September, and the plants wintered in a frame. Early planting
is necessary.
SARRACENIA (Pitcher Plant)— In the District of Columbia the only
species which does not stand the Winter out-of-doors is S. Drummondii.
S. purpurea is the hardiest of the number when plants are obtained from
Northern sources. They should be planted in a mixture of peat, sand
and moss, and the surface given a coating of moss, which must be kept
damp, especially during the growing season. Pockets of suitable soil
should be made for them at the margins of artificial lakes and ponds.
SAXIFRAQA (Saxifrage)— The extremes of temperature in Summer
and Winter work havoc with the great majority of the species, especially
those of the mossy and encrusted sections. S. peltata, a Californian
species, does grandly where it enjoys moist soil. The leaves are from 1
to 2 feet in length. The plant .blooms during the latter part of April.
S. sarmentosa (Aarons Beard), a Japanese species, has withstood the
Winters here for a long number of years. The foliage is handsome, even
in midwinter. There is a form with the leaves beautifully marked with
creamy-white and red. The section to which S. ligulata belongs has
some exceedingly handsome species, among which are S. purpurascens,
flowering in May. S. cordifolia, with bright pink flowers, is frequently
seen here peeping through the snow. S. crassifolia is another early
bloomer. All of them are easy to increase by division.
SCUTELLAR.IA (SkuINCap)— A rather large genus, embracing stove,
greenhouse and hardy species. S. macrantha is one of the best for out-
door use. The stems are at first procumbent, the flower spikes ascend-
ing. Our hot, dry Summers suit this plant well. It blooms during
July and August. The flowers are purplish-blue, and are produced in
great abundance. It grows about a foot high. Increased from seed. S.
japonica does equally as well as S. macrantha; the flowers are much
smaller. In S. orientalis the flowers are yellow; the plant grows from
9 inches to 1 foot high.
SEDUM (Stonecrop)— Many of the species differ from each other in
habit: some of them are herbaceous plants. S. spectabile grows 2 feet
high, forming large and neat clumps; flowers pink. S. Maximowiczii is
an erect growing species, about 1 foot in height, with yellow flowers.
S. maxi/num, a vory variable species, sometimes attains a height of 2^3
