220 HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
feet. S. Sieboldii is quite hardy in this locality; it makes a fine plant
for pots or baskets, but it does not associate well with other plants in
the same receptacle. S. acre, S. a. aureum and S. sexangulare form dense
growths from 2 to 3 inches in height. The yellow flowers are produced
in great abundance about the beginning of .June; their mossy-like growths
are attractive all the year round. S. spurium (8. stoloniferum) has very
handsome pink flowers, produced sparingly from midsummer till late in
Fall. All of the species named are increased by division.
SEMPERVIVUM (Houseleek) — Dwarf succulent plants, well suited for
dry, exposed positions in the rockery. The hardy species are easily in-
creased by division. S. tectorum is the species commonly .grown. S.
arachnoideum has small rosettes of leaves connected at the tips by a
cobweb-like formation. Other well-known species are S. californicum^
S. Funckii, S. hirtum and S. soboliferum. They will thrive in almost
any kind of soil.
SILENE (Catchfly) — Among this very large genus there are three per-
ennial species, each one growing only a few inches tall, which are among
our finest rockwork plants. S. Schafta has bright purple flowers; it is
a very deep rooting species, and stands dry weather well, keeping in
bloom for several months. It can be raised from see:!; or old plants
divide well in October. Dig up the plant carefully, saving all of the
roots, and in dividing give each piece as much root as possible; put in
pots and keep in a cold frame for the Winter. S. alpestris is a neat
growing little plant with w^hite flowers; easily raised from seeds. S.
maritima forms a dense carpet of growth, the branches from a single
plant covering a large surface. The flowers are white and are rather
showy; they last only a short time, however. The foliage is handsome
for the greater part of the year, being very neat and of a w^hitish cast.
Seeds ripen in abundance; they should be sown early in September.
SPIRAEA (Meadow Sweet, Goats Beard) — There are several very
handsome herbaceous plants in this genus; all of them are of easy culti-
vation. They are best increased by division either in Fall or early in
Spring. S. aruncus is a variable species; the plant found in the Eastern
States seems much more dwarf than the one commonly cultivated in
European gardens. To grow this plant to best advantage it should be
given an isolated position. It usually attains a height of from 3 to 6
feet, according to variety. S. astilboides is dwarfer than the above
named; flowers white, borne in dense panicles. S. filipendula is a valu-
able rockwork plant, the finely cut leaves remaining green all the 3ear
round. The flowers, especially those of the double variety, are showy.
S. palmata is without question one of the handsomest flowered herba-
ceous plants in cultivation, but unfortunately other worthless kinds are
often sold for it. The flowers are bright crimson, in large panicles; the
leaves are palmately five to seven-lobed. S. ulmaria (Queen of the
Meadow) has creamy white, very fragrant flowers. The plant grows
from 2 to 4 feet high, and, like all of the others, it dehghts in damp soil^
with partial shade during midday. They are all best increased by
division.
