HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS. 221
STACHYS LANATA (Hedge Nettle)— This plant is a valuable one for
hot, dry situations and for planting under trees. The flowers may be cut
off as they make their appearance, as it is the foliage which is the most
ornamental. The leaves are covered with a wood-like substance, im-
parting a whitish appearance to the plant. Increased by division at
almost any time in Spring.
STATICE (Sea Lavender)— Several species do well here as border
plants. They need sandy soil with a little peat or leaf soil added. S.
elata, S. eximia, S. tatarica augustifolia and 8. latifolia are all good
kinds. They are raised from seeds.
TANACETUM VULQARE (Tansy)— There is little in this subject to
recommend it, beyond its habit of keeping green and fresh-looking during
the Summer. It is a favorite cottage garden plant. The flowers and
foliage are very fragrant. The variety with curled leaves is rather orna-
mental. Increased by division.
THYMUS (Thyme) — T. Chamaedrys lanuginosus and T, serpyllum are
well suited for growing in dry and exposed parts of the rockery. They
are low-growing and wide-spreading plants, with small leaves and
flowers. T. s. vulgaris is the Lemon Thyme, a highly fragrant and
ornamental plant, growing from 8 inches to 1 foot high. Well colored
pieces of this should be rooted in Autumn; the other kinds are raised
from seed.
TIARELLA CORDIFOLIA (False Hitrewort)- A native species, well
suited for shady spots in the front part of the herbaceous border, or on
the rockery. It blooms early, and throws out numerous runners after
flowering, providing a ready means of propagation.
TRICYRTIS HIRTA (Japanese Toad=Lily)— This curious but beautiful
plant is the latest of the hardy herbaceous plants to come in flower.
It usually blooms in October and November. During Summer the
foliage is quite ornamental. The individual flowers, of which there are
many on a s alk, are shaped like thoseof alilv, only much smaller. The
flowers are pinkish-white, spotted with purple. This subject should be
planted in moist soil, or where a mulch can be given, in order to pre-
serve the foliage till the blooming period. The plant divides easily, or
cuttlnus may be made from the flowering stems and put in a cold
frame lat« in the season.
VALLORADIA (Plumbago) PLUnBAGINOIDES— A hardy species, with
deep blue flowers, growing to a heigiit of one foot. It blooms from July
till freezing weather. Propagation is effected by division. The [ilants
should be lifted during the first half of September, the shoots shortened
back, and several pieces put together in 4-inch pots, saving as many of
the creeping underground stems as possible. Keep plunged in a cold
frame for the Winter. If a large number of plants is wanted those in
pots may be divided again during the end of April, and each piece put
into a a inch pot. They will flower at the proper season if planted out
by the end of May.
