222 HARDY PEREXSIAL PLANTS.
VERBASCUM (Mullein) —\. olympicum is one of the handsomest of a
large number of species. It grows from 4 to G feet high. Although a
perennial, it is best treated as a biennial. The seeds should be sown in
August or September. It is a good plant for the back part of a sunny
border.
VERONICA (Speedwell)— A large genus, including a number of shrubby-
species, principally from New Zealand. There are only a few herbaceous
species which are worthy of a place in the garden, as the majority are
of a weedy appearance and last only a very short time in bloom. V.
gentianoides attains a height of 12 inches when in bloom. There is a
handsome variegated form, the flowers of which should be removed, as
this tends to induce growth at the base. V. incana has whitish fohage
and deep blue flowers; it is best raised from seeds. V. amethystina is
one of the best of the tall herbaceous kinds, growing about 18 inches
high. V. taurica, V. Teucrium,y. prostrata and V. satureioides are first-
class rockery plants, which should be increased by division early in the
season.
VINCA (Periwinkle)— V. herbacea loses its foliage in the Fall. In April
it makes short flowering growths, followed later by long vine-like
shoots, which take root at the extremities and form new plants. It
thrives well in full sun. V. minor, the commonest kind, has blue flowers,
also double blue, double purple, single white and variegated leaved
forms. It is much used in planting among shrubbery and for covering
shady spots under trees. It will thrive in almost any position, and
takes possession of the ground to the exclusion of most other herbaceous
perennials.
VIOLA (Violet)— V. odorata is the parent of the numerous single and
double forms which are grown for their flowers in Winter and Spring.
Propagation is effected by cuttings and division of the old plants.
From the nature of the species the method of building up a plant from
the cutting, or runner, is the surest way of obtaining free growing,
healthy specimens. The plants send out runners, and those intended for
propagation should be allowed to develop to a certain extent. In the
latter half of February, and during March, they are taken off and either
Inserted in the sand bed of a cool house or dibbled in boxes of sand and
kept under conditions favorable to rooting. When rooted they are put
in 2-inch pots. After the roots show on the outside of the ball they are
given a shift into 3-inch pots and placed in cold frames, giving abundant
ventilation and shaded either with naphtha and white lead, or with
lath slats. In this section the plants are given their Winter quarters in
June. They are largely grown in frames from w^hich frost is excluded
by banking the outside with stable litter level with the sash, and run-
ning at least one li/2-inch heating pipe in the front or back part of the
frame. But even under those conditions the flower crop is not continu-
ous during very severe weather. In planting in benches, or beds, the
operation is usually completed by June 1.5. Benches are used with
about 5 inches of soil. Narrow and low-roofed, equal-span houses, run-
ning east and west, with the benches as near the glass as possible, pro-
duce satisfactory results. Houses of the same order running north and
