224 HARDY PERENNIAL PLANTS.
south do not produce as many nor as good blooms during midwinter,
The temperature is safe for the plants as long as frost is excluded, but
10 degrees above the freezing point should be the minimum for continu-
ous flowering. In Winter the temperature may rise to from 55 to GO
degrees. Airing must be carefully attended to so as to maintain a cool,
dry atmosphere. A hot, moist, stagnant atmosphere supplies perfect
conditions for weak, sickly growth, and is certain to encourage the
development of fungoid diseases. The soil should be loamy, mixed with
at least a sixth of rotted cow manure and a very small quantity of pure
bone meal. After planting the glass is shaded with turpentine or naph-
tha and white lead, allowing full ventilation. Water only when moder-
ately dry. In August, or beginning of September, the plants should
get a shallow mulch of leaf soil mixed with dried horse manure. All
leaves which show the least signs of decay should be removed and
burned. During Summer, syringing should be attended to frequently, for
the purpose of ridding the plants of red spider, their greatest enemy. For
this purpose the water must be applied with considerable force to the
lower surfaces of the leaves. The plants can, however, be kept tolerably
free of this pest if proper growing conditions are supplied, as red spider
is only found on plants which are enfeebled through some cause. When
syringing is to be done it should be attended to in the early part of tbe
day, and in bright weather, so that ventilation may be relied upon to
dry the foliage before night — a most essential item. For ridding the
plants of aphides, the use of hydrocyanic acid gas is much preferable to
tobacco in any of its forms, as it leaves no objectionable odor.
Leaf Spot — When this, the most dreaded of the fungoid diseases,
appears, the leaves should immediately be picked off and burned, for by
being allowed to continue on the plant the fungus will ripen its spores
and spread to other leaves. It is present more or less in all houses, and
is only kept under control by supplying favorable conditions for the
growth of the plants. When grown outdoors or in frames without pro-
tection the leaves are apt to suffer from too much moisture in the shape
of dew. This condition is very favorable for the increase of spot. There
are several other more or less hurtful fungoid diseases which can only be
guarded against by giving the plants proper treatment, and their rav-
ages curtailed by picking off and burning the infected parts. Very weak
liquid cow manure may be given occasionally if the plants are in need
of a stimulant.
Hardy Violas— Among the hardy Violas V. cucculata is the species
most frequently grown in gardens. It often becomes a troublesome
weed, and keeps on producing apetalous flowers long after the long-
stemmed showy blooms are gone, and from the short-stalked apetalous
flowers large capsules of seed follow in almost every instance. V. pedata,
and its forms, are among the earliest of our native species to bloom. V.
blanda has pure white flowers, growing in dense tufts; this species
delights in sand\- soil.
n
