226
Hardy Shrubs*
ABELIA RUPESTRIS (Rock Abelia).— This is one of the most pleasing
and satisfactory of all flowering shrubs. It is not reliably hardy north
of Washington, but for the Southern States it is equally as desirable as
the Crape Myrtle (Lagerstroemia). In Washington, during the very
severe Winter of 1898 and 1899, the AbeUa escaped with only the ends
of the branches killed. It blooms from midsummer till frost. The
flowers are usually to be seen on the plants up to the end of November.
It propagates freely from cuttings put in during October and November.
Select them from the tips of the shoots; make them about 4 inches in
length, put them close together in boxes of sand; place in the coolest
house and shade from bright sunshine. By the beginning of January
the batch should be gone over, as by that time many of the cuttings will
have rooted. Those which have a sufficient number of roots may be put
in thumb pots in the usual way, but in cases where only one or two
roots appear the plants are best placed in the sides of the pots, as in that
position they make roots more freely than when in the center. In a
short time they will have made growth enough tu be shifted into 3-
inch pots, and before the time comes when the houses are crowded with
Spring stock they may be transferred to the cold frame. This shrub, it
may be added, is one of the very best for planting in cemeteries. Where
the weather is not too severe it is evergreen; grows only to a moderate
height and bears white flowers in great abundance.
ACER PALMATUM and A. JAPONICUM (Japanese Maples).— Most of
the Japanese Maples have very handsomely cut leaves, and especially
during Spring and early Summer they are very highly colored. The
specimens usually seen are from 3 to 8 feet high. The species from
which the varieties have sprung attain a height of 20 feet. All of them
are very hardy, and should be planted in sunny positions so that they
have freedom to develop into symmetrical specimens. They should not
be planted in shade, or even partial shade, on account of losing their
color early in the season. Some of the varieties known as A. palmatum
atropurpureum, A. p. dissectum and A. p. sanguineum set seeds freely
and produce plants like the parents; these seedlings are much more vig-
orous than grafted plants. From old plants of A. palmatum seedlings
are raised on which the finer varieties are grafted. Veneer grafting is
the system most commonly employed.
AMORPHA FRUTICOSA (Bastard Indigo).— A pretty and interesting
shrub. The leaves are pinnate and at a distance have a feathery ap-
pearance. The flowers, arranged in spikes, are very dark purple. It is
propagated by seeds, also by green or hard wood cuttings.
ARALIA JAPONICA (Angelica Tree).— This with A. Mandshurica and
A. spinosa, have very large bipinnate leaves and stout prickly stems.
They are useful for permanent positions where a sub-tropical effect is
desired. They are propagated by taking roots and cutting them into
