228 HARDY SHRUBS.
pieces about 3 inches in length, starting them during Spring, in sand or
moss. A. pentaphylla is a dwarf shrub, with small palmate leaves;
does well in shade. It maj^ be increased like the above, or from seeds.
AUCUBA JAPONICA.— A dwarf evergreen shrub belonging to the Dog-
wood family. It is one of the most desirable evergreens for the warmer
parts of the country. While frequently hurt by late frosts in this
locality, it is only the imperfectly ripened ends of the previous seasons
shoots which suffer. In the Fall those shoots which are likely to get
hurt make good material for cuttings. They may be made quite large;
pieces 8 or 10 inches long will root easily in the cold propagating house.
The roots emitted from the cuttings are thick and easily broken, and if
left for any length of time in the sand bed, or boxes, after the roots are
about 2 inches long, they are difficult to handle successfully. Some of
the varieties of this plant are almost as handsome as the Crotons for
decorative work, and as a berry-bearing plant it has not had the atten-
tion it deserves. The sexes are on separate plants. They flower early
in Spring. A branch of the staminate plant, when the pollen is in suita-
ble condition, if carefully shaken over the pistillate flowers on a calm,
sunny day, will almost certainly insure a crop of the large, bright red
berries. In favorable situations the berries last in good condition
through the following Winter. Some of the better known kinds are A. j.
aurea, A. j. albo-variegata, A. j. bicolor, A. j. latimaculata, A. j. macro-
phylla, A. j. ovata, A. j. longifolia, A. j. Hmbata and A. j. pygmaea
sulphurea.
AZALEA.— The deciduous species and varieties, including the Chinese
species (A. mollis), and the Ghent Azaleas, which are hybrids between A.
pontica, the American species, and A. mollis, are well-known flowering
shrubs. The species are raised from seeds, and the seedlings are used as
stocks on which to graft the finer varieties. It does not pay to raise
these plants in small quantities as they are supplied by dealers at low
prices. The evergreen species include the well-known A. indica, several
of the varietias of which are successfully grown out of doors from New
York southward. In Washington some large plants have stood out un-
harmed for thirty years. A. amoena, an allied species, is probably the
hardiest of this section. The color of the flowers is a rich rosy -crimson.
For pot culture it does not approach in beauty the forms of the Indian
Azalea, but for outdoor planting in the colder sections it is more to be
depended on. The cuttings should be taken about the beginning of No-
vember; at that time numerous strong shoots with small rosettes of
leaves on the ends will be found above the main body of the bush. These
make the best cuttings; lengths of about 4 inches will suffice. They
should be inserted close together in the sand bed of a cool house. The
roots which they emit are exceedingly fine. Previous to potting, if
watered well before lifting, a small quantity of sand will adhere to the
roots. The plants should be potted in the smallest-sized pots, using
finely sifted sandy soil, with at least half of its bulk leaf mould or peat.
Owing to the low price of imported plants of Indian Azaleas, it is gen-
erally conceded that it is cheaper to buy than to raise plants. This is
no doubt true of the finer and slow growing kinds, which are propagated
