230
HARDY SHRUBS.
by grafting on the strong growing varieties, anrl also on some species
of Khododendron. This in done in Winter and also when the growth is
ripe later in the year. Some of the strong growing forms, especially
those having single white and red flowers, are, however, hardy, and
for planting out they may be propagated by cuttings. Plants raised in
this way have a more natural appearance than when grown as stand-
ards, in which shape they are usually imported. The cuttings should be
put in the sand of a cool propagating house by the middle of August;
the roots being small will need fine soil of a peaty nature for the first
potting. In this operation use clean thumb pots; put the pots in
water before using so as to absorb as much as possible. Instead of
placing the rooted cutting in the middle of the pot put it at the side;
this will facilitate rooting. At the next potting it is an easy matter to
have the plant in the center of the pot. In planting out-of-doors it must
be remembered that they will not stand drought, so they must not be
left to take care of themselves. The soil should be prepared to a depth
of at least IS inches. It may consist of loam, leaf mould and sand, in
about equal parts. The plants should be planted moderately close
together so that the foliage will keep the sun from the soil; but to
insure moisture they should always be mulched during Spring and Sum-
mer, and frequently watered during dry spells. Digging, or deep hoeing,
should never be practiced, as the roots are almost certain to be injured
thereby.
BERBERjS THUNBERQI (Barberry).— a Japanese species growing
from 3 to 6 feet high; by far the most ornamental of the deciduous
kinds. It is very symmetrical, seldom needing the aid of the knife to
keep it in shape. It loses its foliage in the late Fall, but during the
Winter and up till the time when the new leaves expand, the bushes
usually present a very pretty appearance from the small but very nu mer-
ous fruits. The readiest method of increase is from seed, which should
be collected when the leaves fall, gently rubbed between the hands to
bruise the covering, and sown in sandy loam, in shallow boxes, making
the soil firm. If placed in the cool greenhouse they will germinate uni-
formly, and by the end of the first year they should be over a foot high.
This is a species well adapted for ornamental hedge w^ork. Another
species recently introduced under the name of B. Wilsonii bids fair to
become a popular ornamental hedge plant.
B. vulgaris is the common Barberry. It has rather ornamental yel-
low flowers, in May or June, followed by bright red fruits, which re-
main on the bush during Winter. There are numerous varieties; one
named B. v. atropurpurea has purple-colored leaves. B. amurensis var.
japonica and B. sinensis are also good deciduous kinds. Among the
evergreen species B. Fremontii, while tender farther North, thrives well
here. It has small glaucous leaves. Increased by Fall cuttings in a cold
frame. B. stenophylla lias small, simple leaves. B. acuminata, a
new evergr. en species, has a decidedly novel appearance. B. (Mahonia)
pinnata thrives here only in sheltered positions. B. (m.) japonica, B.
(m.) nepalensis, and B. (m.) aquifolium are all well-known evergreen
shrubs, thr ving in this section even in the most exposed positions. The
flowers are produced early in the season, followed by handsome clustprs
of fruits which ripen during the latter part of May and June. The
plants are easily raised from seeds.
