232 HARDY SHRUBS.
CALLICARPA.— The species of this genus are grown solely on account
of their beautiful fruits, which are quite small, but produced in abun-
dance. The color of the fruit is bright violet. In northern latitudes the
branches are apt to get Winter-killed, but new growths are produced,
and these flower and fruit the same season. C. purpurea and C. japonica
are the two species most worthy of cultivation. C. japonica is the
hardiest of all the species. Propagation is easiest accomplished by
taking cuttings of the half-ripe wood and rooting them indoors.
CALYCANTHUS (Sweet Scented Shrub).— Of this genus there are four
well-known species— C. occidentalis, C. h-evigatus, C. glaucus and C.
floridus. The last named is the most common in gardens, and has
several varieties. They vary in height from 3 to 12 feet; C. occidentalis
being the tallest and also the most tender, sometimes suffers severely
in this locality. All of the species are prized by some on account of the
vinous fragrance of the flowers, which are dark claret in color. C. occi-
dentalis and C. floridus bear seeds freely, which take only a short time in
germinating after being sown. The seeds may be kept m their capsules
during Winter and sown in a frame during the first half of April. The
seed leaves are very large, disturbing the surface soil a good deal in
unfolding, therefore the seed should be sown thinly. The seedlings may
be allowed to remain a year in their germinating quarters before being
transplanted. Plants are also secured by layering the branches.
CARYOPTERIS MASTACANTHUS is unmistakably one of the finest
shrubs introduced in recent years. It was, and is, sometimes called the
Blue Spiraea, but it has no relation to that genus, as it is a near relative
of the chaste tree (Vitex) which is among those plants comprising the
Verbena family. The Caryopteris has been tried for several years, and
in Northern sections, owing to its being killed to the ground in
Winter, should there be treated more as an herbaceous plant than as a
shrub. In the latitude of Philadelphia and favorable positions further
North it has come out all right through recent Winters. In Washington
bushes of it are now 6 feet high. It is one of the last shrubs to come
into flower, opening out about the first half of September and lasting
several weeks. The flowers are produced in fair-sized heads in the axils
of the leaves on the shoots made during Summer; the color is bluish-
purple or white. Propagation can be carried on at any time during the
Summer or Fall, preferably during the latter season, for which prepara-
tions should be made some time in advance by cutting back some of the
stronger shoots to induce them to send out side shoots. The blind wood
can be used during the flowering period. As soon as the cuttings are
ready for removal from the sand they can either be potted or boxed and
stored in frames for the Winter.
CERASUS LAUROCERASUS.— The Cherry Laurel can be depended upon
as a hardy shrub in ordinarily well-sheltered situations south of Mason
and Dixons line. In the grounds of the Department of Agriculture and
in Capitol Park many old plants have stood almost unharmed in ex-
posed places for years. The late John Saul, of Washington, D. C, gave
this plant a good deal of attention; during a long number of years he
made a collection of all the varieties to test their hardiness. While some
