234 HAR-DY SHRUIiS.
varieties Buffered with the thermometer Rtandinpr at 10° F. three or
four were left untouched. C. latifolia, (\ anj^uetifolia and C. caucasica
are the hardiest. In situations which induce growth late in Summer, or
late enough not to ripen thoroughly, the growths are ahnost certain to
get nipped by frost. This species is called the English Laurel; it is not
native of England, but of the Levant. Propagation is effected by layers
or cuttings, preferably the latter, as they will root in pretty large pieces
— over a foot in length. The rarer varieties should be grafted on stocks
of the common one. Cuttings will succeed any time after the wood is
ripe; a piece of the wood of the preceding year attached will give all the
better results.
CERCIS JAPONICA (Red Bud, Judas Tree).— This species has lighter
colored and larger flowers than either the American or European spe-
cies, C. canadensis and C. siliquastrum. Some of the original plants
brought to this country from Japan are in the parks at Washington,
and seldom does a season pass in which the branches are not completely
hidden by the flowers. I have never seen it ripen seeds, however, and
do not know if it does so in other localities. It takes kindly to layer-
ing. The other species seed very abundantly. C.japonica in this locality
does not grow over 8 feet in height.
CHIMONANTHUS FRAGRANS (Calycanthus praecox).— The flowers of
this shrub are produced on the wood of the previous years growth long
before the leaves are developed. In this locality it often blooms duriug
the end of January. It is not reliably hardy north of Washington, as
all of our plants were killed to the snow line during the Winter of 1898
and 1899. Previous to that time it had remained unhurt for a long
number of years. It is a trifle slow to increase from cuttings of the
ripened wood, doing better from the half-ripe wood, with the foliage
attached. Large plants are secured in a short period by layering in
midsummer. The species and its variety C. f. grandiflora are grown
solely on account of the wonderful perfume emitted by the rather incon-
spicuous flowers. Cut in the bud state they open out well if kept
indoors with the stems in water.
CHIONANTHUS VIRQINICA (Fringe Tree).— A native shrub sometimes
growing to a height of 30 feet; bat specimens will give an abundance
of bloom when only a few feet higb. The flowers are disposed in droop-
ing panicles, are pure white in color and very graceful. It is raised from
seed and by budding on stocks of Fraxinus ornus.
CISTUS VILLOSUS.— Plants of this species have survived the past few-
Winters in Washington, duriug which we frequently had zero weather.
For the Southern States, this and other species should be given a trial,
as they are very handsome shrubs, with large white or purple flowers,
somewhat resembling a single rose. Cuttings root freely, under cool
treatment, ate in Summer.
CITRUS TRIFOLIATA As a dwarfing stock this is used extensively
for buddmg and grafting the different varieties of oranges, and for a
hedge plant, one that will make an almost impenetrable barrier, scarcely
any other subject will answer so well. But its usefulness is yet by no
means exhausted. As an ornamental shrub it makes quite an effective
