20 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
Socotra, by Alexander Scott, the gardener who accompanied PTofesBor
Bay ley Balfour) and the old B. Dregei. As a Winter bloomer it iB per-
haps the finest of all recent hybrids. The first growths made by the
rooted cuttings all go to flowers, afterward some growths more or less
vigorous are made from the base. These make excellent material for
cuttings. Young plants are also raised from mature leaves. The
shoots should be allowed to be well above the sand before being potted.
The floriferousness of this Begonia maj^ be partly accounted for by the
fact of its being almost without femaleflowers, and also by the stamens
producing little or no pollen. Among a large number of plants I have
seen only a very few female flowers, and these are, so far as noticed,
only produced at the very ends of the flowering stems. (See Supple-
ment to Third EditioD, page 802.)
Rex Begonias, Leaf Cuttings of— After the rush of propagating the
soft wooded plants in the Fall the cuttings of the Rex Begonias may
be put in the sand bed. Select the mature leaves of those plants which
are growing In a rather cool house. The pieces for cuttings will give
good results if they be cut In a triangular shape, three inches each way.
The part to be iuserted In the cand should end with one of the thick ribs
or veins which are prominent on the undersides of the leaves. From a
medium-sized leaf eight or ten cuttings can be got. Put them in the
sand to the depth of about an inch and maintain a moderately humid
atmosphere to prevent wilting. Place in thumb pots as soon as the
leaves show above the sand. The old leaves are sometimes used entire,
first by giving a few cuts across the principal ribs, then placing them
flat on damp saud or moss. The other method is to be preferred, because
more plants can be got from one leaf. It is equally as quick, and takes
up much less room on the propagating bench. So far as color is con-
cerned few of the newer sorts are improvements over the better known
kinds, such as Philadelphus, Inimitable, Silver Queen, Fire King, Mrs.
Rivers and Marshalli.
BOUQAINVILLEA— There are at least five kinds in cultivation. B.
spectabilis is as free blooming as any, but only on large specimens. It
is very useful for training along the roof in the same way as B. glabra.
A season of rest, followed by severe pruning, usually induces an abun-
dant flowering growth. B. glabra Sanderiana differs from the tpye
in being smaller in the flower and more floriferous in a small state.
Small specimens from cuttings, rooted in the beginning of the year, will
bloom the following Winter; but larger plants take a couple of years to
develop. They should be allowed to make their growth out-of-doors,
either in the small or large state. There is not much to be gained by
planting out, as they make few roots. Plunging answers well enough,
with a shift in midseason, if necessary. After the plants are brought in-
doors the large, soft growths may be shortened, and an intermediate
temperature maintained until the plants are started into growth, when
more water and heat are given. After they have made a start, doses of
weak liquid manure are beneficial. When in bloom, gradually harden off,
or the flowers will fall in showers.
