236 HARDY SHRUBS
appearance early in the season, before the leaves appear, when covered
with its pure white floweis, which are usually an inch across. In the
Botanic Gardens at Washington there is a large plant with flowers two
inches in diameter. In late Summer and Fall the branches are loaded
down with its golden fruit. In the grounds of the United States De-
partment of Agriculture several old plants in the fruiting stage attract
great attention from Northern visitors. Its propagation Is effected by
seeds, of which there is a plentiful supply ; sown In the Fall out-of-doors,
every seed will germinate after good weather sets in. During some
seasons this species bears two crops of flowers — the first in Spring, the
second along about the month of August. The second crop of fruit fails
to ripen before cool weather.
CLERODENDRON TRICHOTOMUM.— A very handsome, free-flower-
ing Japanese species, thoroughly hardy in the Middle Atlantic States;
further North, although annually killed to the ground, it makes strong
growths, and on these it blooms freely. The flowers are white with a
dark red calyx. Propagation is accomplished by cutting up and
sprouting the roots. The plant seems to delight in rather dry soil. In
dry weather, when other shrubs suffer for want of water, this one is
always fresh and green; but probably this is caused by the roots going
deep into the soil. C. fcetidum is not so hardy as the above, but where
the crowns can be saved it will flower splendidly from herbaceous
stems. It is one of the best shrubs for the Southern States. It sends
up many shoots from underground stems. To increase it in quantity
the roots and underground stems should be dug up, cut in small pieces,
and started indoors early in Spring.
CORNUS FLORIDA (Flowering Dogwood).— In the Southern States this
Dogwood grows sometimes 30 to 40 feet high; further North it is a
shrub 10 to 15 feet high. The flowers are small, greenish-yellow ; the
bracts are very large and pure white. It blooms in early Spring before
the leaves are developed. In Autumn a well-fruited bush, with its red
fohage, is a most beautiful object. C. f. rubra is a rosy -pink flowered
variety of recent introduction, well worthy of cultivation; both it and
the type should be planted in well-drained situations. They are increased
by budding and grafting on seedlings. C. sanguinea has dark red
branches— a very effective plant among other shrubs. C. candidissima
and C. mas are commonly grown, the former for its flowers, the latter
principally for its fruits.
COTONEASTER MICROPHYLLA is a dense, low-growing, evergreen
shrub, with small leaves and bright red fruits that remain on the plants
the best part of Winter. It is propagated best by taking cuttings,
about 6 Inches long, and rooting them indoors in August or September.
C. Simonsii is almost evergreen and perfectly hardy south of New York;
its bright red fruits is the main feature of the plant.
CRAT/EQUS (Hawthorn).— There are numerous American species cul-
tivated as shrubs, or dwarf trees, the best of which are C. coccinea, the
scarlet-fruited Thorn, and C. crus-galli, the Cockspur Thorn. Owing to
their bright red fruits, often remaining a long time after the leaves fall,
they are valuable decorative subjects. C. oxyacantha is the English
Hawthorn; the many kinds grown, and which are known as varieties of
