288 HARDY SHItriiS.
this species, malie very symmetrical specimens. They are more florifer-
ous than the American liinds. Some of the best are C. o. alba-plena,
double white; C o. punicea-plena, double scarlet; C. o. bicolor, pink
edged with white; C. o. rosea, pink with white claw. They are increased
by budding or grafting upon seedlings of the type. The seeds do not
germinate until the second year from sowing, consequently they should
be mulched in Summer to prevent drying out.
C. pyracantha is the evergreen Thorn. The fruits are the principal
decorative feature of this shrub; tliey are of a beautiful scarlet color,
remaining on the branches during Winter. C. p. Lelandi has bright
orange-scarlet fruit — a very ornamental and quick-growing variety.
CRYPTOMERIA JAPONICA (Japan Cedar).— Witli us this is one of the
most satisfactory of the evergreen conifera?. It looks well in a .o-iuch pot,
and from that to a specimen 30 feet high. It varies very much, there
being nearly a dozen well-defined varieties. In the New England States it
is not thoroughly at home as a tree, and this condition is not to be met
with until we get as far South as Maryland. As a pot-grown plant it
is very little inferior to the costly Norfolk Island Pine (Araucaria ex-
celsa,) and it can be gotten up in quantity at less than one-tenth the
cost of the latter. Cuttings root well if put in by the end of October, in
a cool sand bed. They can be inserted large enough so that by the
middle of May following they will be ready to be shifted into 5-inch
pots. Although plants raised from cuttings make the best furnished
plants for using in pots, seedlings, if grown on without a check, furnish
plants within a year from sowing, which will not look too small in 5-
inch pots. The seed should be gathered as soon as ripe, which it usually is
about October 15, else there is danger of it being lost through the cones
bursting open, the seed falling out through a little disturbance of the
branches. For sowing, prepare shallow boxes of firmly pressed soil —
loam, leaf mould and sand in equal proportions will suit. Sow the seed,
not too thickly, and cover with half an inch of screened leaf soil and
sand; put near the glass in a temperate house. They will germinate
the first half of January, and can remain in the boxes, if not sown too
thickly, until the end of May. Pot off singly or three in a 3-inch pot at
first, using sandy soil. Keep in a growing temperature until they are
too large for small pots. The plants will stand in cold frames during
the Winter in most places without harm, other than 8 slightly yellowish
tinge to the leaves, but where they are wanted to make marketable
plants in as short a time as possible from the seedling stage, they should
be kept in a cool house where, if suitable rooting conditions are provided,
they will make rapid progress during the Winter months.
CYDONIA JAPONICA (Japanese Quince).— The common form will give
good flowering specimens from seed. The finer varieties may be grafted
on seedlings of the type. Cuttings of the ripe wood taken in the Fall and
stored till Spring are rooted successfully. It is also raised from cuttings
of the roots, from suckers and by layering. There is a form with varie-
gated leaves and pale flowers, also a pure white and double red. They
are among our most desirable hardy shrubs, coming into bloom along
with the Forsythias and Jasminum nudiflorum.
