240 HARDY SHRUBS.
C. Maulei is a much dwarfer species, with reddish flowers produced
in great abundance. C. M. superba has the flowers of a deeper shade of
red. C. M. tricolor has the leaves variegated with pink and white.
DAPHNE CNEORUM.— A hardy dwarf evergreen trailing shrub growing
not more than a foot high. It flowers in April and May; the color is
dull pink. It makes a neat symmetrical plant, with very sweet-scented
flowers. It is rather slow to increase from cuttings. The best method
of propagation is to layer the trailing branches in Spring, making an in-
cision, or tongue, in the under part of the stem. Have the cut part at
least 2 inches under the soil; secure with wooden pegs; press the soil
firmly over it, and cover with sphagnum to insure moisture. Leave
until the following Spring before separating from the parent plant. D.
Blagayana is also a desirable hardy trailing species, not so well known
as the above. D. Mezereum, a hardy deciduous species, Is sometimes
used for forcing, more on account of the fragrant flowers than for their
appearance. It is raised from seed, and its forms grafted on seedlings of
the type. D. odora, D. o. marginata and D. o. alba make very satisfac-
tory growth in sheltered positions out-of-doors here, but it may be
stated that the plants were imported direct from Japan. I have tried
greenhouse-grown plants in similar situations with unfavorable results.
D. pontica and D.laureolaare perfectly hardy here, but they do best with
partial shade in Summer. The last named is scentless.
DEUTZIA SCABRA.— A very free growing and handsome flowered
shrub from China and Japan. It blooms according to locality in May
and June. In Washington it reaches a height of 8 feet. It blooms on
short growths made on the previous seasons wood. D. s. crenata is a
form with smoother leaves than the type. There are several other
varieties with double flowers more or less tinged with rose. D. c. Pride
of Rochester has the flowers large and double white. In the Northern
States they should be planted in protected situations. It is among the
easiest shrubs to propagate. The cuttings are taken after the leaves
fall from the current years growths; they should be tied in bunches and
heeled in moss in a cold frame. In early Spring they are put in boxes of
sand, with a httle soil at the bottom, and kept in a greenhouse. When
rooted they are hardened off and planted out in rows, where they will
make fair-sized plants before the growing season is over. These plants
make splendid growth in tubs, and are easily forced into bloom for the
decoration of large conservatories. D. gracihs has never been known to
suffer from cold weather in this latitude, and it is said to stand the Win-
ter, when in sheltered positions, in the Northern States. As it blooms
on short growths made on the wood of the previous season, the plant
would be of no service where its branches are apt to get winter-killed.
It is one of the grandest of our dwarf flowering shrubs, blooming in
Washington from the first to the middle of May. and growing from 2 to 3
feet high. It is well suited for planting in cemeteries. For forcing into
bloom, it is an easy subject. The plants may be lifted from the open
ground as late as the weather will permit. They lift with a mass of fine
fibrous roots, and should be potted before getting a chance to dry.
Place them in a deep frame till wanted; put them in heat very gradually
