242 HARDY SHIirjiS.
else there will be a tendency to have flowers without foliage. This
species is best propagated from green wood cuttings taken shortly after
the plant is done blooming. Dull weather should be chosen for the
operation, as then the cuttings stand an almost certain chance of root-
ing. Make the pieces about 4 inches long; avoid tbe thick, succulent
growths, taking only those which have most substance to them. Put
closely together in the sand bed of a cool house, or frame, and shade to
prevent wilting. As soon as rooted, put in boxes or small pots until
taken a little with the soil, then plant in rows outside, where they will
make bushy little plants before Autumn. The next year after that in
which they are struck from cuttings will give plants large enough to go
into 6-inch pots for forcing, D. Lemoinei, a hybrid between D. gracilis
and D. parviflora, is also a good subject for forcing. It is (luite as free
in rooting as D. gracilis, and, along with D. parviflora, should be treated
in the same manner in the same propagating bed.
DIERVILLA (Weigelia). — D. rosea is the best known of the species; it
blooms in May and June. As it is not particular as to soil or location
the species and its varieties should be in everj collection. D. r. flori-
bunda has dark red flowers with whitish stamens— a very prolific
bloomer. D. r. Desboisii has deep rose-colored flowers. D. grandiflora
is a tall growing plant with large leaves and flowers. There are several
varieties with white, red and pink flowers; some of these give scattering
blooms throughout the Summer and Autumn months. D. rosea and its
forms force very easily. In its propagation, cuttings of the dormant
wood root quickly if put in gentle heat about the end of March, or the
growing tips may be used in Summer when kept in a humid atmosphere
during the rooting process.
ERICA (Heath). — These are attractive low-growing shrubs useful for
bordering those ot taller growth. The cuttings taken from the tips of
the current years growth should be put in during late Summer. Few
florists have just the proper facilities for rooting these and kindred
plants. The structure, a cool frame, should face north and will be all
the better if in the shade of a house. Theidea is to have the atmosphere
while rooting as moist and as cool as possible. Erica vagans is an
early kind, as is also E. mediterrauea; E. cinerea and E. tetralix are
later in blooming. Calluna vulgaris (Heather), with the double and
white flowered kinds, are all good; they need peaty soil, or loam mixed
with an abundance of leaf mould and sand, and should not be allowed
to get dust dry at the roots while in a young state.
EUONYMUS (Spindle Tree).— Up till within a few years E. japonicus
was among the finest of our evergreen shrubs in this section, but owing
to the ravages of a small scale insect the plant is now comparatively
seldom seen and will only thrive where severe measures are taken to
keep it clear of the pest. Several forms have very handsome variega-
tions; their names are E. j. latifolius-aureus, E. j. aureo-marginatus, E.
j. albo-marginatus, and E. j. latifolius-albus. They bloom about the
end of July and usually ripen large quantities of seeds. The variegated
kinds are propagated by cuttings, put in about the end of October, in a
cool house or fr^me
