HARDY SHRUBS. 243
E. radicans variegata is usually best known in its place in the shrub-
bery, but it is exteusivelv used for a very different purpose, and that is
as a carpet bedder. For this work, to fill even a small space, a great
many plants are necessary. In public parks and gardens the same
plants may be used several seasons, or the growing points may be
rooted afresh each Fall. The shoots are collected in bundles of 50 or
100 together, and with a strong knife they are cut to a uniform length
—4 or r inches. The lower leaves are stripped and the cuttings put very
thickly together in boxes of sand, and placed in a cool frame, where they
root freely. This species is also used tu cover low walls.
EXOCHORDA GRANDIFLORA (Pearl Bush). -The only fault with this
plant is its short blooming season, which is during the month of May,
but it is exceedingly handsome while it lasts. It is a native of China!
Although sent out in the early seventies it is still by no means common*
owiug to its propagation by the usual methods being somewhat diffi-
cult. In several localties it has ripened quantities of seed for several
years, and when seed is obtainable no difficulty is experienced in raising
plants, as the seeds germinate very evenly. Severe pruning, such as this
plant is likely to get from cultivators, on account of the desirable sprays
for cut flowers, evidently works against the setting of seed, for the
specimens which have borne abundant crops of seeds in this locality are
those w hich have never been touched by the knife. This plant was sent
out under the name of Spiraea grandiflora, which cMngs to it yet in some
places.
FORSYTHIA.— Japanese shrubs, usually covered with bright yellow
flowers very early in Spring. There are two well-known kinds in culti-
vation. F. suspensa has long, drooping branches, while F. viridissima
is more erect in growth. Nothing in the shrub line is easier to increase.
All that is necessary is to cut the previous seasons growths into lengths
of 8 or 10 inches and heel them in deeply in a protected piece of ground,
covering during hard weather with leaves or loose litter. November is
the month for this operation. The cuttings will also root in a very
Hhort time, if put in moderate heat in March. Both kinds flower before
the leaves make their appearance, a day or two of warm sunshine being
sufficient to bring them out. The plants should be pruned only after
they are done flowering, as the flowers are produced directly on the
wood made the preceding Summer.
GORDONIA (Loblolly Bay).— These plants thrive in this locality when
given a deep, sandy soil and well supplied with moisture. They produce
their large camellia-like flowers from July till frost. They are propa-
gated by layering, allowing the layers to be well rooted before remov-
ing. G. pubescens and G. lasiantha are the species grown. The last-
named has pure white flowers, about 4 inches in diameter.
HALESIA (Snowdrop Tree).— These shrubs, or small trees, are in full
flower before the leaves are fully developed. In this section H. Meehani
forms a very symmetrical, small-sized tree. H. diptera and H. tetrap-
tera differ from each other in the number of wings to the fruit. All of
the kinds are raised from seeds, which sometimes remain in the ground
