244 HARDY SHRUBS.
over a year before j2:erminntinj^. Seedlings of H. tetraptera are used as
stocks for the beautiful flowered Japanese Styrax.
HIBISCUS SYRIACUS (Shrubby Althaea) is a deciduous sbrub of easy
cultivation, and needing very little attention after being planted beyond
an occasionally thinning out of the branches. Most of the numerous
varieties are very neat andcompact, growing from 5 to 12 feet in height.
They bloom late in the season, when most of the other shrubs are out
of flower. The double-flowered varieties rooteasily from cuttings of the
dormant wood, in early Spring, or from green wood in Summer. The
cuttings from the ripened wood should be made in the Fall and heeled
In out of the reach of frost in moderately dry sand. They may be put
in rows in the open as soon as weather permits, or they may be rooted
Indoors earlj- and planted out later. Several of the single varieties come
true from seed, of which an abundant crop is usually produced. H. s.
totus-albus is a useful single white variety and flowers when very small.
H. s. camelliaeflora is double white, with pink throat. H. s. Boule de
Feu, double, violet colored flowers. Other good double flow^ered forms
are H. s. Leopoldii flore-pleno, H. s. rubra pleno, H. s. purpurea flore-
pleno and H. s. Jeanne d Arc.
HYDRANGEA HORTENSIS is the common garden Hydrangea, of
which there are numerous varieties, all of them being hardy in the Dis-
trict of Columbia. Some are cut to the ground during Winter, but they
never get injured permanently. H. h. Lindleyana and H. h. stellata
prolifera usually survive the Winter with the stems several feet above
ground. These plants form very large specimens, and are very
handsome when in bloom, changing in color, as the flowers mature,
from greenish white to a deep rose. The central flowers are fertile, the
outer ones sterile. H. h. japonica has one or two very handsomely
variegated forms. Cuttings of these are apt to lose their leaves in the
sand bed, but in this condition they will root, making young growths
simultaneously with the rooting process; and if they are carefully put In
very small pots they will make fair-sized plants within a year. But
they must be kept in pots during this time, as the roots are much
weaker than those of the green-leaved plants. The variety known as
H. h, aurea-variegata is probably the handsomest of our hardy plants.
H. h. otaksa has large heads of rose-colored flowers. H. h. ramulus-
coccinea has dark colored stems and pink flowers. H. h. Thomas Hogg
has pure wiiite flowers. Cuttings will root any time after the shoots
are moderately firm. Where wood is scarce the large stems may be
split down the middle with a leaf to each piece. Where pruning is neces-
sary it should be done early in the season, to throw vigor into the
shoots springing from the base of the plant.
H. quercifolia, from the Southern States, opens its large pyram-
idal heads of flowers latein the season and is valuable on that account
alone; but the handsome foliage and its spreading, graceful habit com-
bined make it a most desirable shrub. It will thrive either in partial
shade or full sun. In propagating, the smallest of the ripened shoots
should be taken with the leaves attached, placing the stems deep in
the sand bed of the cool propagating house. If put in about the middle
