STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 21
BOUVARDIA — A much grown Winter-flowering plant some years ago;
now comparatively few are to be seen. Young plants are raised early
in Spring, from small pieces of the roots, placed in flats of sand and kept
in a warm house. For the first week or two cover the surface of the
sand with damp sphagnum moss; this will encourage the formation of
buds on the roots. When the growths are of sufficient size, put in 2-inch
pots, shifting into 3-inch pots, and plant outside during the latter part
of May. To make bushy plauts the leading shoots should be pinched
repeatedly. About the middle of September, or earher, according to
location, the plants are lifted with balls of earth attached, and either
planted on benches or put in pots. Keep the atmosphere moist and
close for the first few days, and the plants shaded from the sun. A mini-
mum temperature of 55 degrees is necessary for perfect development.
Pink, white and red are the prevailing colors.
BROWALLIA — B. Jamesoni is a useful plant for late Winter flowering.
It is naturally alow-growing soft-wooded evergreen shrub, with a rather
straggling appearance. When grown as a standard it is an extremely
ornamental subject. For this purpose take strong shoots for cuttings,
and grow to single stems, removing the side shoots and stopping the
main shoot when the desired height has been attained. In Summer the
plants maj^ be plunged in a bed of ashes and frequently fed with liquid
mauure. They need full sun. B. elata will bloom all Winter in a cool
conservatory. It is annual in duration. Seeds should be sown the
latter part of August; a few in a 4-inch pot. Discard the weakest seed-
lings, leaving three or four in a pot, and shift into 6-inch pots to bloom.
BRUNFELSIA— About half a dozen species are common in cultivation.
Out of this number there are at least two well worthy of attention as
pot plants — B. (Franciscea) latifolia and B. eximia. The former Is verj
free in producing flowers, and is one of the best plants to put out in the
permanent bed of a warm conservatory. The plant flowers during the
late Winter months from the wood made the previous Summer. On first
expanding the flowers are light purple, changing as they grow older to
pure white. Old plants sucker freely, and if severed an inch or so
beneath the surface of the ground and put in the propagating bed, they
will quickly form new roots and develop into specimens large enough
for 5-inch pots within a year. The^e plants should be grown indoors
all the year round. Winter is their resting period, and during that time
they should be watered but sparingly. The soil should be of fibry loam,
sand and lime rubble; a small quantity of leaf mould may be added. In
rooting any of the kinds, take very large pieces; dust the cut part with
powdered charcoal; allow it to dry, then put in a pot of dry sand and
keep dry till rooted.
CALADIUM— See Bulbous Plants.
CACTUS — This name is applied to all the members of the family.
Formerly it was the adopted generic name of a large number of plants
which are now divided into several genera. Quite a number are hardy
in the Middle Atlantic States, among these are Opuntia arborescens, O.
Rafiuesquii,0. vulgaris, O. missouriensis,and one named O.pha-acantha.
