246 HARDY SHRUBS.
of October, most of them will root by the end of February. Suckers,
with small roots attached, may be lifted and potted in Spring, The
most certain method is to layer the lower branches, allowing them to
remain at least a year before removing. Seeds are not always obtaina-
ble, but thej^ germinate readily in sandy soil covered with finely screened
sphagnum,
H. paniculata grandiflora is one of the best of the late blooming
shrubs. The flowers are creamy-white, in large pyramidal heads, ter-
minating the current years growths. It comes into bloom, according
to locality, from July to September. It is grown both in bush and
standard form. In propagating green cuttings may be taken during
the first part of July. Select a dull day for the operation. Take those
shoots which are net too robust and only the ends; shorten back the
leaves one- third and put in sand,^in a cool, humid atmosphere. Cuttings
of the dormant wood may be made 8 or 10 inches long and inserted,
either in the Fall, or kept heeled in, or buried in a cold frame during
Winter, putting them in rows in the open as soon as weather will per-
mit. Cover thinly with spent hops, or old manure, in either case.
HYPERICU/Vl (St. Johns Wort)— H. kalmianum is the species most
commonly seen in cultivation; it thrives in almost any soil and in a
sunny position. H. patulum, a Japanese species, forms a bush from 4
to 6 feet in height, in favorable situations. H. Moserianum is not so
tali as H. patalum, but the flowers are larger; both of them are apt to
be hurt in Winter in exposed situations. Cuttings root quickly at any
time during the Summer months. H.calycinumis one of the handsomest
and most useful of the dwarf evergreen shrubs. It forms dense clumps
of growths, not over a foot high, with very large, bright orange-yellow
flowers; much used for the front portions of shrubberies. Increase is by
division. Tn parts of the country where the Winters are too severe it is
easily protected by branches of evergreens, or r(jugh stable litter.
ILEX (Holly).— I. aquifolium,the English Holly, is, unfortunately, ten-
der in the Northern States. Philadelphia is said to be the northern
limit of its hardiness. Around Washington it is perfectly hardy, but it
is much shorter lived than our native species, I. opaca. Except with
comparatively small specimens of the English species on which the fruit
is in larger clusters and brighter colored, the native one is to be pre-
ferred for specimen plants. Several specimens in the parks here are
over 40 feet high, and not much inferior as berry-bearing plants to the
English one. I. opaca is very common in a wild state in the woods
here; but I have never seen what could be termed a presentable plant.
They are generally found in the shade of other trees, conditions which
make them scraggy looking. When grown in the open, in prepared
ground, their appearance is quite altered; the branches grow close to-
gether, and the outline of the tree is rather conical, not spreading as in
I. aquiolium. Ilex cornuta, from Japan, is a very satisfactory species,
but the berries, of which there is a plentiful supply, do not ripen until
after the time when they would be most welcome. The English species
takes well on stocks of I. opaca. The operation should be done indoors
either before growth is active in Spring, or. after the wood is fairly ripe
