HARDY SHRUBS. 247
in August. I. opaca is more difficult to raise from seed than I. aquifo-
lium. A good method is to sow in a mixture of peat and sphagnum
moss, made quite firm, and place in a greenhouse w here it will get the
full sun, keeping the mixture moderately wet. Plants grown for their
berries, or, in fact, for any purpose except for hedges, should never be
selected from seedlings, as there are two kinds, one with the female
organs, imperfectly developed, but with the stamens well formed bear-
ing abundance of pollen; they are the most abundant bloomers, but do
not bear fruit. The other kind has fewer flowers, with the pistils all
well formed and quite prominent in the center of the flower. The
stamens on the other hand seem imperfect in most cases, but doubtless
there is enough pollen on them to fertilize the flower, as fruiting plants
set seed all right a long distance away from the pistillate plants. There-
fore, cions should always be selected from berry-bearing plants. There
is a variety of 1. aquifolium with yellow fruit which is desirable. There
are also many kinds with curiously-formed leaves, not so popular here
as they are in Europe. Ilex aquifolium flowers on the growths of the
preceding Summer; I. opaca flowers later, and on the current years
wood. The outer covering of the seeds of Holly is quite hard, and often
they do not germinate the same season as sown. If sown as soon as
ripe, in very sandy soil, and care taken to keep them from drying out
during the dry months of Summer, they will germinate the following
Spring. Sow the seed rather deep and cover with a mulching in Win-
ter, which covering is easily removed when freezing weather is past. I.
cornuta, grown in company with varieties of the English species, does
not come true from seed.
I. cornuta. It would be an interesting experiment were some of our
Southern woodsmen to plant the Japanese Holly (Ilex cornuta) for
the sake of its berried branches as a Christmas Holly along with the
English (I. aquifolia) and the native evergreen kinds, I. opaca and
I. cassine. The last named is the prettiest of the three, but both
berries and leaves are small; the berries shrivel up too quickly and
sometimes fall off before they can be used. Ilex cornuta fruits more
freely than any of the other species. In the vicinity of Washington, by
the middle of December, the berries are only beginning to turn red.
Whether this fault would appear where the flowers expand earlier
in the season I cannot say. A most noticeable feature in connection
with the Japanese plant, the mentioning of which may be of use to
some one some day, is that it bears a much more abundant crop of ber-
ries when male plants of the English species are in the immediate neigh-
borhood. The hardiness of this plant is about the same as that of the
English kinds, probaby a little more tender. I understand it can be
grown as far North as Philadelphia. In Washington it stands the most
severe Winters without hurt, and grows much stronger than the English
species.
ITEA VIRQINICA.— The cultivated form of this is much superior to
plants found in the wild state. It has long racemes of rather pretty
greenish-white flowers. It may be propagated by division, or from
seeds which ripen freely. It usually grows from 2 to 4 feet high.
