248 HARDY SHRUBS.
JASMINUM NUDIFLORUM (Chinese naked flowered Jasmine).— This
may be used either as a bush plant on the hiwn or open border, for cov-
ering walls or arbors, or for forming a liglit hedge. It is not particular
as to soil or situation, growing almost anywhere. Its flowers are pro-
duced during mild Winters. Beginning in December they expand as the
weather permits till April. Propagation is effected by putting in cut-
tings of the ripe growths out-of-doors in Autumn. Good-sized branches
can be layered successfully. It is one of the easiest shrubs to root. J.
revolutum, J. fruticans and J. floridum, all of them yellow-flowered spe-
cies, usually stand the Winters here. J. revolutum is the hardiest. They
are propagated by layering, and from cuttings of the ripe wood, kept
in a cool house over Winter.
JUNIPERUS (Juniper). — J. sabina var. tamariscifolia is a most ..seful
dwarf, trailing evergreen, seldom growing over 18 inches high. J. pro-
cumbens is another species of creeping habit. Cuttings may be put in
after the first slight frost. Where only a limited number of this and
other evergreen coniferous shrubs is required, the best method, I have
found, is to fix up a few boxes, say about 4 inches deep, with sandy pot-
ting soil at the bottoms and pure sand on top; make the cuttings about
6 inches long, half of which should be in the soil. Put them in fairly
close together, and firm well. Give one good watering. Stand the
boxes in the coolest part of the house under the benches; keep moder-
ately damp, and by Spring, if the conditions have not been unfavorable,
a goodly percentage will have rooted. If not too close together they
will take little harm from passing the Summer in the same boxes. The
kinds available for this method of propagation are Biotas, Cupressus,
Thuja, Retinospora, Cephalotaxus and Taxus.
KALMIA LATIFOLIA (Calico Bush).— A native evergreen shrub grow-
ing from Maine southwards. In the Northern States it Is a bush, 4 to 8
feet high. Further South it is frequently met with 20 feet high. It
blooms during May and June. It is cultivated much in the same way
as Rhododendrons; but under cultivation we seldom see the plants
flourishing equal to those in their native habitats. It is raised from seed
and from layers. K. glauca has lilac colored flowers, and whitish under
the leaves; K. angnstifolia has purple flowers. All three are used for
forcing, imported plants being employed for the purpose. K. angnsti-
folia has lateral corymbs; in K. latifolia and K. glauca they are terminal.
Manure of any kind should not be used in the cultivation of these plants.
KERRIA JAPONICA (Corchorus) is a popular flowering shrub which
is not too particular as to soil or situation. It attains a height of
about 6 feet. There are three forms — double and single flowered and
variegated. They are all good. The variegated one keeps the color
in the leaves all through the season just as showy as In Spring ; it usu-
ally bears a crop of flowers, which are bright yellow, over an inch in
diameter, along about the flrst part of May. This plant is capable of
being used as a hedge subject, as it stands clipping well. The other two
kinds are more profuse bloomers, especially the double, which is the
strongest growing of the three. It is seldom without flowers all during
the Summer and Fall. The plants are best propagated from ripe
growths during the latter part of August, indoors.
