25 ( HARDY SHRUBS,
KCELREUTERIA PANICULATA i8 one of the very best email sized decidu-
ous tive.s ill cultivation— such as iloriats are often called upon to suggest
for siuciil gardens and in places unsuitable or too small for the develop-
ment of forest trees. The Kalreuteria was certainly not named by any-
one naving its popularity in view, as 1 am inclined to think the long
name id responsible for the plant not being more common. There isnt
a suthciently taking popular name under which the species is known.
1 he leaves are compound ; the flowers yeilow, in immense paniclfs, well
above the leaves; they are produced in June and July. The seed, which
is somewhat like that of the Canna, if sown in the Fall will gerniinate
the following Spring. Stock is also got up readily from root cuttings.
LABURNUM ALPINUM (Scotch Laburnum)— This is the hardiest species.
Where it does w^ell it is a most beautiful shrub or small tree. The flow-
ers are bright yellow, in long racemes. Propagated by seeds.
LAQERSTRCEMIA INDICA (Crape Myrtle)— Northern nurserymen, as
a rule, do not handle this plant, owing to its being tender in the North.
However, it is hardy enough to stand zero weather; but when the mtr-
rury gets much lower the plant is apt to be killed to the ground. In
the Southern States the Crape Myrtle is perhaps the best known of all
the flowering shrubs, as there are few, if any, which exceed In beauty a
well- developed specimen in full bloom. The flowers are bright pink and
are arranged in immense heads, even on one year-old plants from seed.
Large specimens grown in tubs, and kept in a cool greenhouse, can be
made to flower two or three times during the year by cutting back the
flowering branches. L.. i. alba has pure white flowers, others are bright
and pale shades of purple, rose and red. It is hardy in this section and
is successfully grown much further North with a slight protection dur-
ing Winter, for if the roots are protected with a covering of leaves, or
rough litter, they will sprout vigorously and bloom profusely before the
Summer passes. It is best propagated from seed, as all the colors come
true. Sow in boxes about the latter part of September, on very firm
soil, covering the seeds with finely sifted peaty soil. They will germinate
in Spring, and if liberally treated some of them will bloom the same
season. Young plants are always much more tender than those three
years old and upward.
LAURUS NOBILIS (Bay Tree)— In sheltered situations this well-known
shrub occasionally survives the Winters in this section. It eometimee
makes growths 6 feet long in a single season ; these are necessarily soft
and ill-prepared to stand severe weather. During the winter of 1898—
1809 every plant was killed to the ground. Large specimen plants
grown as standards and pyramids are imported for decorative pur-
poses. Thpy may be had in good condition for several years by atten-
tion to watering and keeping them Indoors when there is danger from
frosts. Owing to their restricted root room there is little danger of
their growing out of shape.
LIQUSTRUM (Privet)— In this section L. japonicum is a very desirable
evergreen species with larere leaves. During very pevere Winters the
outer branches suffer considerably. L. ibota and L. lucidum are
very attractive-looking shrubs when in flower. L. ovalifolium is the
so-called California privet; much used as a hedge plant. The European
privet, L. vulgare, has small flowers and foliage. This and L. Ibota are
the hardiest of the species. There is a form of L. vulgare w^ith glaucous
leavpp. the margins of which are bordered with white. The deciduous
species are among the easiest shrubs to root from dormant cuttings.
These mny be put in as soon as the leaves fall. The usual practice is to
make cuttings about 10 inches long, tie in bundles and bury in sand.
