252 HARDY SHRUBS.
putting the cuttings in rows in the open ground in early Rpringr. Th«^
evergreen species usually bear large (luantities of seedn, which are slow
in germinating ; when they remain in the ground over Summer a mulch-
ing should be given to prevent drying.
LONICERA (Bush Honeysuckle)— L. Standishii comes in flower before
the leaves appear, usually in February and March. The blooms are
sweet-scented, but rather inconspicuous. In favorable seasons the orna-
mental fruit is ripe during the first half of May. Seeds sown in Septem-
ber will germinate the following Spring, The branches may be layered
any time after midsummer. L. fragrantissima is almost an evergreen
species here; it blooms early in the season, the flowers are very fragrant.
It forms beautiful specimens when not interfered with by other shrubs
and trees. It is best propagated by cuttings taken any time during a
wet spell in Summer, and rooted indoors. After this process they may
be heeled in boxes of soil, and, afterward, either planted in rows outside
or kept in a frame till Spring. L. Albertii is a dwarf species with small
and narrow glaucous leaves and purplish flowers. L. Morowii and L.
Ruprechtiana are both valuable on account of their handsome red fruit,
which ripens in great abundance. L. tatarica has numerous forms»
differing from each other in the color of the flowers and fruits. L. t.
grandiflora has bright red flowers striped with white; L. t. splendens
has the flowers dark rose; L. t. grandiflora alba is pure white. They
do best in sunny positions and are increased by layering; also from
seeds.
riAGNOLIA— All of the hardy species, some of which are fair-sized
trees, are well worth growing. They may be divided into two sections
—North American and Asiatic. Those of the former produce their
flowers after the leaves are formed, while the deciduous, Asiatic species
bloom for the most part on the naked wood, and very early in Spring.
M. grandiflora, an evergreen species, native of the Southern States,
begins blooming here about the end of May and continues throughout
the Summer. In this section it is hardy, but during Winter, when the
thermometer registers from 5 to 10 degrees below zero, the leaves are
almost certain to fall, although without apparent injury to ihe plant.
North of here it has a struggle for existence. Seeds sown in Autumn
usually germinate in Spring. Seedlings are more vigorous than
grafted plants, but they nevertheless take a considerable time before
attaining a flowering size. M. macrophylla, another native, is known
as the great-leaved Magnolia; it is much hardier than M. grandiflora.
The leaves are from 2 to 3 feet long, and proportionately broad. The
flowers are nearly a foot across. It is easily raised from seed. In this
locality its blooming period is during the last half of May and early in
June. M. glauca, M. g. Thomsoniaua and M. g. Watsoni are all desira-
ble hardy shrubs. The two last named have larger flowers than the
type. Among the Chinese and Japanese species and varieties, M. stellata
is the earliest to come in bloom; it is sometimes in full flower here by
the middle of March. M. conspicua follows a week or ten days later;
this is the finest of the Chinese species. As the large flowers expand
before the foliage it is indeed a conspicuous plant when in bloom. M.
