254 HARDY SHIirjiS.
SoiilanKeana is thought to be a natural hybrid between M. conspicua
and the dark purple flowered M. obovata. This is probably the case, as
the color of the flowers would indicate; moreover, it is later in bloom-
ing than M. conspicua and earlier than M. obovata. M. Kobus is a very
shapely small tree, with small flowers which open early. It is used as a
stock for grafting purposes. The seeds are certain to germinate evenly
when sown as soon as ripe. M. Lennei is the showiest of the dark pur-
ple-flowered kinds. The bloom is cup-shaped and very large; the petals
are dark purple on the outside, lighter within. M. stellata is sometimes
used as an Easter plant. When flowered in pots for this purpose it
should be home grown, and plants selected for forcing which show the
most buds. For forcing they may be potted in the Fall, but if the
ground is in a condition to allow the plants to be lifted they can be
successfully flowered a week or two afterward. Propagation is effected
by seed, budding, grafting, and layering. Stocks may be chosen from
M. Kobus, M. tripetala or M. acuminata. Layering should be practiced
before the plants are in active growth. The best season for planting is
just before the plants start into growth.
NEVIUSA ALABAHENSIS is called the Alabama Snow Wreath. This
name is a little misleading, as when in flower there is really nothing to
suggest snow from the appearance of the bushes. The stamens are the
most attractive part of the flower; they are greenish white. Propaga-
tion is by division of the old plants; they sucker very freely. Summer
cuttings can be depended on to root quickly.
OSMANTHUS— This genus belongs to the same order as the Olive
(Olea), under which the species are sometimes described. O. aquifolius
has a certain resemblance to the English Holly (Ilex). The resemblance
is still more striking in the variety O. a. ilicifolius, one of the handsomest
evergreen shrubs outside of the Conifers. Tt has stood outdoors here
for a long number of years. During very severe Winters it suffers very
little, and in protected situations not at all. O. a. myrtifolius is a form
with leathery, spineless leaves, but is not such a free-growing shrub as
the others. Of O. a. ilicifolius there are one or two handsome variegated
forms in cultivation, but they are less hardy than the green-leaved
variety. They are easily propagated by cuttings, rooted indoors during
the Fall months. O. a. ilicifolius seeds freely and the seedlings come
true; they do not germinate till the second year. Privet stocks are used
on which to graft the variegated forms.
P^ONIA nOUTAN (Shrubby Paeonia)— The shrubby Poeonies are varie-
ties of this species. They are hardy in the North, but their flower buds
are quickly developed during mild weather, consequently they are apt
to suffer from late frosts. They force well early in the season, but are
only good for variety, as few flowers can be had on a moderate-sized
plant. As border subjects they are desirable, making an attractive
display during April or the first half of May. Propagation is by seeds,
division and grafting. The single and semi-double forms w^Ill, in favora-
ble seasons, ripen a considerable quantity of seed ; they should not be
allowed to remain in the seed vessels after they are ripe, as they harden,
and germination will take longer than if sown when ripe. Sow in boxes
