256 HARDY SHRUBS.
and keep under cover for the Winter. They should germinate in Spring.
Seedlings are not as free flowering as grafted i)lants. The operation of
grafting is best performed during the first half of September, in order
that the union may be perfect and new roots produced b^- the stocks to
give the Spring growth a vigorous start. For stocks any of the numer-
ous varieties of the Chinese species may be taken; those varieties having
the ijoorest flowers should, of course, be selected for the purpose. The
wood taken for clous should be from the less robust part of the plant,
that in which the large flower buds are absent being preferred. The
leaves should be shortened back, and the cion attached to a good-sized
piece of the fleshy part of the root of the herbaceous species by the
easiest of the ordinary methods of grafting. Tie on with a string which
will not rot in the ground during Winter, as support is needed in this
way even after the cion has taken with the stock. The position to be
occupied by the grafted stocks is the most important part of the opera-
tion. Where the Winters are severe, a deep frame, facing north, is the
best place for them. In this locality they are herled in on a sheltered
part of the open border, but deep enough in the pu1, so that the lower
part of the cion is covered. A layer of decayed leaves or sphagnum is
kept on the surface of the soil, and the tops shaded for the first two
weeks. In planting insert deep enough so as to give the cions every
opportunity to send out their own roots. About the beginning of May
the graft will have made considerable growth; each one should then be
supported with a stick, else it is liable to become detached from the
stocks. Division should only be attempted with plants which are well
provided with short growths from the bases of the plants.
PAULOWNIA IMPERfALIS (Empress Tree).— Under favorable condi
tions this subject grows into a good-sized tree. During May, before the
leaves appear, the large panicles of bright purple gloxinia-like flowers
open out, making a most gorgeous appearance. A medium-sized tree will
ripen an almost incredible number of seeds; they are quite small and
need careful tending to germinate them successfully. Young plants,
when cut down annually, throw up very strong shoots with leaves
sometimes 2 feet in diameter, giving an effect not to be had with any
other plant. It thrives in any soil. The Winter of 1898-1899 was
the first to kill the flower buds on even large-sized trees in Washington.
It is hardy in the North, but the flower buds, being naked, are usually
killed by severe frosts.
PA VI A MACROSTACHYA ( Smooth=f ruited Horse Chestnut)— This is a
desirable shrub, growing from 3 to 9 feet high, spreading rapidly by
means of stoloniferous roots. It flowers in June; the flowers are white,
disposed in upright racemes. It is most easily propagated by division.
P. rubra var. purpurea blooms in a very small state; it will succeed
either in sun or shade. Seedlings make satisfactory blooming plants.
PERSICA VULGARIS (Peach)— The double-flowering forms are among
the most popular of dwarf-flowering trees. Their period of blooming is
during April and May, according to locality. P. v. versicolor plena has
the flowers either red or white on the same tree, or with both colors
combined in the same flower. There are double red, double rose and
