258 HARDY SHRUBS.
double white forms. They are increased by working on one-year-old
seedling stocks of the common peach.
PHILADELPHUS (Hock Orange, Syringa)— All of the species and their
forms are valuable flowering shrubs with large white flowers, some
of which are very fragrant. P. coronarius is one of the best known;
P. c. primulajflorus has double flowers; there is another with yel-
lowish leaves. P. grandiflorus is a native of the Southern States; it
has larger flowers than P. coronarius. P. Gordonianus is a late
bloomer, with almost scentless flowers. They succeed in almost any
soil. Cuttings taken after the leaves drop in Autumn will root very
quickly if put in slight bottom heat in March or April; or in a protected
place they root well in the open ground. Pruning should be done only
after the flowers have faded. This will give the young wood an oppor-
tunity to ripen. The flowers are only produced on the wood made the
preceding Summer.
POTENTILLA FRUTICOSA (Shrubby Cinquefoil)— A very hardy species
growing from 2 to 5 feet high, with pinnate leaves and numerous bright
yellow flowers, which are produced all through the Summer. Cuttings
may be rooted at any time indoors during Summer. Small plants are
very suitable for the rockery, and by pruning in the Spring they are
easily kept within bounds .
PRUNUS PADUS is the Bird Cherry. It bears long racemes of white
flowers, in May, followed by ornamental black fruit. P. spinosa flore-
pleno, the double flowering Sloe, forms a large shrub, usually covered
with double white flowers in early Spring. The dwarf white, double-
flowering Almond is P. japonica flore-alba-plena; the red form is P. j.
flore-rubra-plena. They bloom for only a short period, but are exceed-
ingly handsome while the flowers last. P. Pissardi is the purple-leaved
Plum, of which there are good and bad forms; the good varieties retain
their coloring till the end of the season. The flowers, usually borne in
great profusion, open in early Spring before the leaves expand. In this
locality the fruits are ripe by the end of May. Most of the species and
forms are propagated by budding and grafting, but it is cheaper to buy
than to work them in small quantities.
PUNICA QRANATUn NANA (Dwarf Pomegranate)— Both the tall
growing and dwarf Pomegranates stand our mont severe Winters here
without the least injury, and flower quite profusely during the Summer.
They are all the more welcome, as their unique, bright scarlet flowers
are produced when shrubs In bloom are scarce. In favorable seasons
they ripen fruit, but we do not depend upon these for propagation. Cut-
tings are taken from one and two-year-old wood, stored and put in a
cool house propagating bed about the middle of February; they root
very evenly. They should be removed to a frame as poon as they will
bear it. The dwarf form makes a very ornamental shrub, and should
be tried wherever it is likely to thrive. Native of Cabul and Persia.
PYRUS (Crab=apple)— Highly ornamental low growing trees, usually
covered with flowers early in Spring. Some of them have very highly
colored fruits in Autumn. They are increased by budding and grafting
