260 HARDY SHRUBS.
on seedling stockB. The flowers of P. Malus coronaria are large, single,
pinkish-white, very sweetly scented. It bears fruit freely, bat the seed-
lings are slow in making flowering plants. P. M. floribunda and the
variety called atrosanguinea are most beautiful w^ien the flowers are
half expanded ; they are then of a bright rosy-red color, getting lighter
when fully open. The flowers of P. M. Parkmanni are double, of a
beautiful deep rose; valuable for cutting. It is a very free flowering
variety and should be largely grown. P. M. carnea and P. M. lutea
produce large numbers of flowers on small grafted plants. The double
white and double rose colored forms of P. M. spectabilis are very desira-
ble; they are very regular bloomers, selaom missing a season. P. M.
floribunda and P. M f. atrosanguinea bloom freely in a small state, and
should be grown more for forcing purposes.
RHAPHIOLEPIS OVATA— A charming little evergreen shrub, which is
hardy here in sheltered situations. The flowers resemble those of a Cra-
taegus; they are pure white, sweet-scented, about three-quarters of an
inch across and arranged in terminal panicles. The leaves are leathery
in texture and almost round. It ought to prove a good shrub for the
Southern States. It is easily propagated by cuttings in the Fall, rooted
indoors.
RHODODENDRON.— In some parts these do grandly. In this locality,
when given sheltered and partly shaded positions, they thrive tolerably
well, but when in the full sun they do not thrive unless very carefully
watched. Hybrids of R. ponticum are less hardy than those of R.
catawbiense. This species and R. maximum are natives of the Eastern
States; they should be given treatment similar to that recomended for
Azalea. They are propagated by layering and grafting on seedling
stocks of the hardy species, principally R. maximum. R. punctatum,a
species from N. Carolina with small pink flowers, is quite hardy North.
There are many beautiful greenhouse species and varieties, compara-
tively few of which are cultivated in America.
RHODOTYPOS KERRIOIDES (White Kerria)— This is a very desirable
Japanese shrub, seldom growing over 8 feet high, although in its native
country it is said to reach twice that height. The flowers make their
appearance as soon as the growths of the current year develop, and
keep up quite a display from about the middle of May all through the
Summer and Fall months; that is, if the ground does not get too dry.
The flowers are snow-white, aobut 2 inches in diameter, and appear at the
ends of the shoots. The plant thrives well on heavy soils, and, although
not necessarily, in places crowded and partly shaded by overhead foli-
age. The seeds are in shape and size somewhat like those of the Canna.
They may be sown as soon as gathered, as they are slow in germinating.
RHUS COTINUS (Smoke Tree)— A species from Southern Europe, with
very neat foliage. The whole plant is usually covered during mid-
summer with a fringe-like substance, which gives rise to the name
Smoke Tree. This substance consists of the elongated hairy pedicels.
R. glabra is one of the handsomest species, on account of its large, odd-
pinnate leaves. R. g. laciniata has the leaflets much cut up, resembling
the fronds of some Ferns; both are easily propagated from cuttings of
