262 HARDY SHRUBS.
the roots. R. typhina, the Staghorn Sumach, grows from lu to 30 feet
high. The leaves are odd-pinnate, having from 11 to 31 leaflets. U.
copallina is a shrub, growing from 1 to 7 feet high. Both are propa-
gated by root cuttings, and also from seeds. R. Toxicodendron and R.
venenata are poisonous species; the former is known as Poison Oak
and Poison Ivy, the latter as Poison Sumach and Poison Dogwood.
ROBINIA HISPIDA— The flowers of this species are deep rose colored,
borne in hanging racemes. When grown on its own roots it suckers
freely, and when planted among choice shrubs it soon appropriates
space not intended for it. When worked on stocks of the False Acacia,
R. Pseud-acacia, it is a more desirable shrub, but it requires frequent
pruning to keep it in shape. Of R. Pseud-acacia there are low-growing
and late-blooming forms; none of them are, however, superior to the
type. • They are worked on seedling plants of R. Pseuda-acacia.
ROSA— (Rose).
The Rose is without question the most popular of flowers, and it can
hardly be wondered at, as in the very numerous species and varieties
we have nearly every shade of color in the flower— green, yellow, bronze,
red, pink, white, purple and almost black. The flowers, be they single,
semi-double or double, have much to please the eye, and their fragrance
is unsurpassed. The cultivated varieties are divided into classes. Some
of the varieties are differently arranged by different authorities. The
arrangements are intended as aids to the published descriptions; thus
the more easily do growers get an idea as to the habits of a new Rose
when the originators class it with a section of the better-known varie-
ties. But the varieties of the several groups have, to a certain extent,
been crossed one with another, and there are very few people, even be
they expert rosarians, who agree with each other on the position which
some of our Roses should occupy in any system of classification. Again,
as new breaks are made by the crossing of species and varieties, as has
lately been done with the species R. Wichuraiana and R. rubiginosa,
there arises a necessity for new class names. Some of the sections are
but little grown in the Northern States, as the plants which do best in
the colder parts of the country belong to only a few classes. The hybrid
perpetuals, or hybrid remontants, are the best-known outdoor Roses,
but for this purpose they are unsatisfactory both North and South.
In the North they suffer during W^inter, and in the South they are
anything but ornamental after the flowering period, which is a
short one. In this latitude they are at their best from the 25th
of May till the 10th of June. They are, however, gorgeous while
they last. Further north some of the kinds give a few scattering
blooms in Autumn. General Jacqueminot, a variety raised nearly 60
years ago, is one of the most valued by amateurs, owing to its brilliant
crimBon, highly fragrant flowers. This, with other valuable varieties,
such as Ulrich Brunner, Mrs. John Laing, Mme. Gabriel Lulzet and Anne
de Diesbach are not only grown extensively out of doors but they have
been largely used for forcing. Among the recent introductions In this
