264 HARDY SHRUBS.
class Frail Karl Druschki with large, well-formed, pure^white flowers
stands out prominently. (See Supplement to Third Edition, page 304 j
Forcing— In forcing hybrid perpetualB the plants should be lifted
^hen the growths are matured, pruned back, potted hard and placed
in a cold frame. Plunge the pot among leaves, if there is a probability
of their making a few roots before freezing weather without the buds
starting into growth. Plunging will keep the roots safe and in a condi-
tion ready for active work. When brought into a cool house, in the
early part of the year, they need to be brought on very gradually so as
to have feeding roots when the buds break. An examination of the
roots will show when it is safe to force growth by giving gentle heat.
American Beauty, sent out as such in 1885, is a perpetual bloomer and
has, to a certain extent, taken the place of most of the older forcing va-
rieties of the so-called hybrid perpetual class. This variety, which was
raised in France, has had a wonderful carreer as a forcing Rose in the
United States, and it is unlikely that Its place will be taken by new-
comers for some time at least.
Propagation— Roses of this class for outdoor growth are propagated
by budding, grafting and from cuttings. When it is desired to put in
cuttings in the open ground the work should be done during the first
half of October. Select a sheltered spot. Have the ground freshly
worked, or, better still, the cuttings may be put in as the ground is dug.
The cuttings should be at least 9 inches in length and only an inch or so
should be exposed above the surface. Those cuttings having a heel are
not so liable to decay as those cut between leaves, or at the base of a
leaf. They should always be put in with the aid of a spade, as it allows
firming with the feet; and if the soil needs it a little sand should be
added while the trench is open, to induce healthy rooting. Half-rotted
leaves, or rough stable litter, should be spread over the whole during
hard freezing weather. When they are to be rooted indoors, the cuttings
should be taken off later, tied in bundles and their bottom ends placed
in moss, in a place low enough in temperature to keep the buds dor-
mant. In Spring place in a gentle bottom heat, with the atmosphere
cool. They will root readily by this method. The cuttings must be
potted before the roots get long. In potting have the soil moderately
moist, so that they will need little water until the roots begin to take
with the soil. In grafting, which is done in Spring, cut back plants of
the Manetti and Dog Rose are used, or pieces of the roots of these, or
the roots of any of the free growing Roses, such as Mme. Plantier.
Budding on stocks of Manetti, or the Dog Rose, is done in the open
ground in late Summer.
Propagation by Seeds— New varieties are largely raised from seeds
ripened from hand-pollinated flowers. In raising plants from seeds,
if sown as soon as ripe, they germinate very irregularly. Some of
the hybrid perpetuals will germinate part of a crop and some of them
wifl flower in two months from date of sowing. Other seedlings, ger-
minated at the same period, will take at least a year to bloom, while
other seeds of the same batch will lie in the seed pan over a year before
vegetating. The reason why the seeds sometimes remain a long time
