HARDY SHRUBS. 265
in the soil before germinating is owing to tlieir being inclosed by a
horny substance. This should be softened before sowing, by allowing
the seeds to remain in boxes of finely sifted sand during the Winter, the
boxes to be buried several inches below the surface of the soil out-of-
doors. In removing the seeds from the sand previous to sowing, use a
sieve with a small mesh; empty the sand (which is likely to be wet)
into this, and force the sand through the meshes with the aid of a stream
of water from the hose. The seeds should then be sown before getting
dry. Care must be taken to remove them from their Winter quarters
before vegetating, which they are apt to do, even when they are deep
in the soil, as soon as the temperature of their surroundings reaches
40 degrees. Another method of treating rose seeds, especially those
which ripen as a result of cross-pollination, and one, which if carefully
done results in quick germination, consists of cutting off one end of the
achene a little at a time until the seed is partly exposed. This can only
be done with great care and with the aid of a dissecting microscope, a
sharp knife and lots of patience. 1 have found that seeds so treated
sprout very quickly when sown in clean, large-grained pure sand. It is
only the large achenes which lend themselves to this treatment; the
smaller ones, such as are found in the heps of the Wichuraiana, are too
small to be successfully worked, and in this case there is little necessity
for treatment of this description, as the seeds germinate very success-
fully after being stratified out-of-doors during the Winter months.
Teas and Hybrid Teas are the most important of all the classes, be-
cause they include the Roses mostly grown under glass to supply flow-
ers all the year round. Although the new varieties are numerousenough
comparatively, old kinds or sports from old kinds are still grown in
large quantities. La France is a peerless variety, although over 40
years old, but there are few growers who can master its requirements
as a forcing rose. It is 40 years since Catherine Mermet was raised.
This is the parent of two sports. Bride and Bridesmaid, both of which
are still money makers, and by those who understand their require-
ments on the bench and in the ice-box, they are considered among the
best varieties for Winter use. Golden Gate, about 10 years old, is still
in the front rank. Meteor gave way to Liberty, which in turn was dis-
carded for Richmond, which, when well grown is a favorite everywhere.
It combines to a certain extent the color and fragrance of General Jac-
queminot. Killarney and its sport are favorites ; the color and form
are exquisite even when the petals are fully expanded. My Maryland
is one of the recent candidates for popular favor , it is of robust growth
and evidently not very exacting in its requirements. The list of varie-
ties which have been tried as forcing roses is a very long one. Many
growers in this country have been experimenting in raising new forms
with more cr less good judgment. It is a fascinating pastime, but it
may be said with truth that even the most successful raisers seldom get
rich as a result of their work.
For Outdoor Bloom the Teas are getting more popular year by year
and deservedly so, as they flower continuously during the Summer and
Autumn months. If planted in deep rich soil, given a mulching of stable
manure during Winter and the roots kept moist and cool during Sum-
