STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 2^
Some of the gaudy-flowered greenhouse kinds, such as Cereus flagelli-
formis, C. speciosissimus, and the much admired night bloomers C.
grandiflorus and C. Macdonaldise, when in good condition, so far as the
drainage aud soil in the pot are concerned, may be plunged in a sunny
spot out-of-doors, where they will make growth much superior to that
attained in the greenhouse. If the plants are in good health wet sea-
sons will do them no harm.
CALATHEA— Usually known as Marantas. They are grown solely for
their ornamental foliage, nearly all of the species having beautiful
markings. It is doubtful if any other genus shows greater variation in
this respect. Most of the kinds are stove plants, growing in shade all
the year round, with a minimum temperature of 60 degrees. They need
an abundance of water at all times. In Winter, when the benches are
apt to get dry quickly, the pots should stand on a layer of sphagnum
moss. Some of the species will succeed in a temperate house, and a few
of the stove kinds may be subjected to a lower temperature, without
injury, after they have made their growth. Some of the best-known
stove kinds are as follows: C. Baraquiniana, C. bella, C. fasciata, C.
Kerchoviana, C. Lindeniana, C„ Makoyana, C, albo-lineata, C. rosea-
picta, C. spleudida, C. zebrina, and C.Veitchiana. Those which maybe
grown cooler are C. tubispatha, a species which loses its leaves and
goes to rest for the Winter; C. illustris, C. Leitzei, C. Massangeana, C.
pulchella and C. intermedia. The last two resemble C. z^-brina in the
upper portions of the leaves, but the inferior margins are almost green.
None of the species should be allowed to flower, as this only weakens
the plants; and seed is not necessary, as they all divide very freely. Dur-
iug the growing season, if drained thoroughly, they can hardly be over-
watered.
Propagation— Calatheas, which are freshly divided, should not be
potted in fresh soil until new roots have been formed. This condition
may be brought in the following manner: Knock the plants out of the
pots before growth commences; wash the soil from among the roots;
prune out those not wanted, and divide into clumps, not too small, say
large enough to go into a 5-inch pot, and put in the proijagating bed.
Let the air be close and moist, and the glass shaded. When a few fresh
roots have been formed they take very quickly with the soil after
potting.
CALCEOLARIA — The Calceolaria, both shrubby and herbaceous, is as
well known in western Europe as the Zonal Pelargonium in America.
The shrubby kinds are there much used in bedding, producing very
gaudy effects. They delight in a cool, moist atmosphere, and our hot
Summers make short work of them. The herbaceous hybrids are raised
from seeds sown about the mouth of August. The seeds are very small
and should be sown on the surface of the soil and pressed down, cover-
ing with glass until the seed leaves can be seen. At all times the plants
require a cool, airy spot when in the greenhouse. From the seedling
stage until the plants are likely to get hurt by frost they should be kept
in a frame. Greenfly is their greatest insect enemy, and must be pre-
vented from gaining a foothold on them by fumigation. Several of the
