266 HA III) Y SHE UBS.
mer they are much more Batlefactory than the hybrid perpetuals.
Most of the kinds are quite hardy in this section. The tops are, of
course, frequently killed, but this makes little difference, as the strong
flowering wood is made from the base of the plants. Even much farther
North many of the kinds will stand the Winter, if protected by some
loose material over the roots. But even where the outdoor plants are
killed annually, the plants used during the Winter in the benches
make excellent material for planting out. If cut back and potted they
take about ten days, in a suitable temperature, to throw out roots
enough to insure successful growth when planted in the open border.
Kniserin Augusta Victoria, Bridesmaid, La France and its forms. Sou-
venir du President Carnot, White and Red Maman Cochet,Gru8S an Tep-
litz and Killarney are a few among a large number of others which can
be depended upon to succeed. Among the other ever-blooming kinds
the rugosa hybrids are deservedly in the front rank. It is in the neigh-
borhood of 20 years since Madam Georges Bruant was sent out. The
flowers are large, semi-double, very sweetly scented, and in color are
almost white, having a slight creamy shade. Under favorable condi-
tions, that is, where they are encouraged to send up fresh growths,
blooms will be produced all through the season. Blanch double de
Coubert seems to be a double form of Rosa rugosa alba; it bears a pure
white flower, is free blooming, and should be in every collection. Con-
rad F. Meyer is regarded by nearly everyone who has seen it as being
one of the finest roses in cultivation. In deep rich soil it gives a profu-
sion of rich, silvery pink flowers. There are several other varieties, all
of them well worth growing. Added to the charm of their flowers the
foliage is bright green and abundant. These roses are very hardy and
stand our hot Summers exceptionally well. To prolong the season of
bloom the large fruits should not be allowed to mature. Another rose,
evidently with Tea blood in It, has been sent out recently under the name
of J . B. Clark ; it is a wonderfully vigorous rose when given liberal treat-
ment. The flowers a^e very large, well formed and bright red. It must
not be treated like ordinary hybrid perpetuals, because there is a danger
of its behaving like them and only give flowers early in the season. It
has given 4 distinct crops of flowers in my garden the past season, cov-
ering a period of 5 months. Souvenir de La Malmaipon, although 60
years old, should be in every garden where it is likely to thrive.
Cultivation Under Qlas£=— Teas and Hybrid Teas are the Roses most
largely grown for this purpose. They are easiest propagated from cut-
tings of the half-ripened wood. It does not seem to make much differ-
ence whether flowering or blind wood is used. Cuttings may be taken
to single eyes with the leaf shortened back, or made with two eyes and
thelower leaf removed. A bottom heat of from 65 to 70 degrees will
answer, the atmosphere of the house being 10 degrees low^er. Propaga-
tion is carrried oq from January to March. The plants are put out on
the benches during June, from 3 or 4-inch pots, according to variety.
Four inches of soil is the usual quantity ; the kind used should be rather
heavy and fibrous loam mixed with rotted cow manure to about one-
sixth of its bulk. Subsequent mulchings of rotted manure mixed with
