270 HARDY SIIIirBS.
almost certaiuly provide correct conditions for an attac*^ of mildew
— a fungus wiiich in a short period, if allowed to grow unchecked,
will ruin the plants. When mildew makes its appearance, sulphur
applied to the steam or hot water pipes is the best antidote. Aphides
are best checked by vaporizing. American Beauty, when cultivated
under glass, is an ever-bloomer. It is grown in a slightly warmer
atmosphere than the Teas, and is often very successfully cultivated
in solid beds. Medium-sized wood should be chosen for the cut-
tings, and these made with two eyes. They should be planted out of
4-inch pots.
Propagation by Grafting — There seems to be a difference of opinion
as to the benefits to be derived from this method of propagation, but
each grower may settle it for himself by giving it a trial. The stocks
should be prepared by potting in 3-inch pots; in thickness they should
correspond as near as possible with that of the cion — the cion should
never be of a greater diameter than that of the stock. Any of the com-
mon methods of grafting will answer. The cion should be securely
fastened in position with raffia. As soon as tying is completed, it is
necessary that the plants be kept in a suitable atmosphere to preserve
the leaves of the cions so that the union may be hastened. In grafting
hybrids this is not so necessary, as they can be handled without leaves.
A brisk heat under the plunging material will quicken the action of the
roots and effect a union safely without the aid of a frame; but with
Teas it is necessary to have them in an almost air-tight structure. If
only a few hundred are to be experimented with, part of a side bench
may be set apart for the purpose of receiving the grafted plants, and
may be prepared as follows: Have the front and back boards higher
than the plants. Ordinary sash laid lengthwise of the bench will suit
all right, provided they can be arranged so as to keep the atmosphere
warm and humid. To facilitate easy access to the plants the sash may
be temporarily hinged on to the back boards with pieces of leather, and
the sash tilted in front with a stick. Select a stretch of bench that can
be relied upon to supply a temperature of from 70 to 80 degrees inside
of the frame. First put a layer of sphagnum on the bench— one inch
closely packed will do. Over this put some ashes, or sand, on which to
stand the pots. The other conditions necessary for a quick union will
readily sugest themselves, air being given very gradually after the union
has taken place. When hardened off, growth will be accelerated by a
shift into larger pots.
Summer Roses— According to locality May, June and July is the
period during which the Summer Roses bloom. They are known as
Ayrshire, Prairie, Austrian, Moss, Provence (Cabbage or Centifolia), Mul-
tiflora, Hybrid Sweet Briars, Hybrid China, Musk and Hybrid Wichu-
raiana. Bennetts Seedling is a well-known representative of the Ayr-
shire class. Among the Prairie Hoses Baltimore Belle and Queen of the
Prairies are old but grand kinds, splendidly adapted as climbers; they
are very hardy and late in blooming. The Austrian Briars are among
the earliest to flower; they form good-sized bushes and require little
attention in the way of pruning. Austrian Copper has large, single
flowers of a brilliant coppery-red on the upper surfaces of the petals;
