272 HARDY SHRUBS,
the under surfaces are much paler in color. Austrian Yellow has large
single yellow flowers. Harisons Yellow and Persian Yellow are semi-
double forms. Hugonis is a small, single, yellow-flowered rose, not
quite well enough known to obtain a reliable opinion of its merits. The
flowers are small, lighter in color than those of the Austrian briars.
Xanthina, also a yellow-flowered species, is attractive on account of
flowers, fohage and spines; the latter are large and bright red. What
appears to be a double form of this species has recently been introduced.
It has the distinction of blooming a week or so in advance of any other
rose and is evidently very hardy. The Wichuraiana hybrids have come
into prominence of late years and deservedly so. The female parent, R.
Wichuraiana (R. Lucige) is a Japanese species, of a rambling habit, with
clusters of small white flowers, which open late. The leaves are small
and shining. The plant lasts only a short time in bloom, but a well-es-
tabhshed subject bears thousands of flowers. This is the easiest of all
Roses to propagate. The new race of hybrids which have been raised
lately are, in some cases, several weeks ahead of R. Wichuraiana in
blooming ; they appear to be very hardy. The flowers of R. Wichurai-
ana are capable of being fertilized with pollen from a large number of
different varieties, and the resulting progeny varies greatly. Some have
large, single flowers exceeding in size any of the recent hybrid Sweet
Briars; others are small, very double, with petals arranged like the
florets of a Zinnia. Some again have the flowers so closely resembling
those of the variety Hermosa as to be mistaken for these, but the habit
of all the seedlings, so far as I have observed, partly suggests their par-
entage. W. A. Manda of South Orange, N. J., was the first to raise
hybrids from this species. Lord Penzances Hybrid Briars also belong
to the Summer blooming class. R. rubiginosa, the Sweet Briar, is the
seed parent; this has been crossed with various other Roses. The
flowers of the hybrids are bright colored and showy, but the most at-
tractive feature is the sweet-scented foliage.
During recent years the Summer blooming section has been enriched
by a Rose concerning which little is known beyond its being a Japanese
production. It was brought to Scotland early in the seventies by the
engineer of a vessel plying between Leith and Japan, and for nearly 20
years grew in the garden of a Mr. Jeuuer, near Edinburgh. It was se-
cured by Turner, of Slough, and sent out in 1894. The name En-
gineer, which it had borne up that time, was changed to Crimson
Rambler. It is a climber, of very vigorous growth, and very hardy.
The flowers are borne in large clusters. The color is bright crimson ; its
only fault lies in its liability to being attacked by mildew. As was to
be expected, the great popularity of this Rose suggested Pink, Yellow and
White Ramblers, but while the Roses which are thus described are good
hi their way, we have yet to see pink, yellow and white forms of the
Crimson Rambler. The Rose sent out recently as Philadelphia Rambler
Is an improved Crimson Rambler; the flowers have a richer color, and
the foliage is not so liable to be attacked by mildew. This Rose has be-
come a favorite sort for forcing into bloom at Easter, the plants for
which purpose are either grown in pots or in the open ground. Plants
grown by the latter method are much stronger than those in pots, but
