274 HARDY SHRUBS.
SHEPHERDIA ARGENTEA (Rabbit Berry)— Under favorable conditions
this species grows into a small tree. Jhe leaves, owing to the presence
of an immense number of small silvery scales, are almost white on both
sides, and from a distance the plants look as if they were covered with
white flowers. The blooms are small, produced singly or in pairs in the
axils of the leaves; they are exceedingly fragrant. S. canadensis is a
smaller species, reaching a height of 6 feet. Both are easily raised from
seeds.
SPIR/EA— The shrubby species worth growing are too numerous to
mention here. One of the earliest to flower, and a favorite kind, is S. pruni-
folia; S. Reevesiana(Cantnninsis) and its double form are both popular.
S. Thunbergii blooms very early in the season when there are but few lea vpg
on the plant; the flowers are small, but they make up in numbers for
what they lack in size. All of the above have white flowers. S. salici-
folia and its varieties bloom in dense panicles late in the season. This,
with S. paniculata rosea, another late bloomer, has pink flowers. S.
Van Houttei is one of the best kinds which flower in May or June; it
makes a good forcing plant. S. Bumalda and S. B. Anthony Waterer
have the flowers disposed on the ends of the shoots of the current years
growths, in flat heads, several inches in diameter. In S. Bumalda the
flowers are rose colored; its variety has dark crimson blossoms. Both
are dwarf, but very vigorous and easily propagated from the young
wood. S. sorbifolia, S. grandiflora and S. liindleyana are distinct from
the others in having odd-pinnate leaves and the flowers arranged in
large panicles, produced late in the season. S. sorbifolia dies down to
the ground each season, and during extra hard Winters the other two
behave in a similar way; but they make growth enough the following
Summer to flower. S. Lindleyana is useful for planting in large groups.
A native of the Himalayas it is probably unsuited for Northern sections
unless well protected. All three are easily raised from seeds, or by
division.
STAPHYLEA (Bladder Nut)— S. colchica and S. Bumalda bloom very
early in the season. They have the reputation of being the easiest
shrubs to bring into flower under artificial conditions. They belong to
the Maple family, and are natives of Japan and Europe. S. colchica has
fairly large-sized racemes of almost pure; white flowers, very agreeably
scented. Young plants with flowering wood can be got up in two years
by taking cuttings of dormant wood in Autumn, heeling in moss, intro-
ducing them to gentle bottom heat in March.
STYRAX JAPONICA— A very ornamental and hardy deciduous shrub
with pure white flowers very abundantly produced in June and July.
This species make-J a good lawn plant. Propagated by seeds sown as
soon as ripe.
SYMPHORICARPUS RACEMOSUS fSnowberry)— This spe.Ies is grown
on account of the large white fruits which hang from the ends of the
branched during t^e Autumn and Winter months. S. vulgaris has rea
fruits, but much smaller than those of !S. racemosus. They are propa-
gated by seed, cuttings, or by division.
SYRINQA (Lilac)— About a dozen species of this popular geoUS are ill
