24 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
species of Calceolaria are much easier to grow than the hybrids, and
some of them are very ornamental. C. scabiosrefolia may be flowered a
few weeks from the seedling stage by starving in small pots. It may,
however, be grown 3 feet high by shifting when necessary. Seeds may
be sown from August to January. The soil should be of an open nature;
cow manure and leaf mould should form one-fourth of the mixture.
CALLISTEMON SPECIOSUS,and one or two other species, make inter-
esting flowering plants in early Spring for a cool conservatory. Young
plants are gotten up from seed, but they take a longer time to flower
than when raised from cuttings; neither are they so free blooming.
They may be treated much in the same way as Acacias.
CAMELLIA — Some old plants of these relics of the past will occasion-
ally be found in old-established greenhouses. They are kept, especially
the white varieties, solely for the flowers, which are used in making up
designs. In private and public gardens we see them oftener, and
in such places they should be more grown, as they are capable of
making exceedingly attractive displays during the Winter months. The
varieties are perpetuated by cuttings of the ripe growths in late Sum-
mer, or by grafting before the growth starts, using stocks of strong-
growing kinds, raised from cuttings. Potting is best done after the
flowers fall off. Loam two parts, peat or leaf mould one part, and
about one-sixth of the whole, sand, will make a good pptting compost.
They thrive best with limited root room.
CANNAS FOR WINTER BLOOHING— During Winter these plants
respond very readily when anything like fair treatment is given, in the
production of large heads of bloom. In fact, in a warm, sunny house,
many of the kinds are equally as flne as they are in Summer, and some
of them last longer in bloom, owing to theconditions for the production
of good flowers being more undercontrol. The orchid flowered Carinas,
that is, those having C. flaccida blood in them, are not well suited for
outdoor work, as their flowers are too soft to withstand the glare of
the hot sun; but for pot plants in Winter they are useful. The plants
may be started in small pots, giving larger ones as growth is made.
They are gross feeders, and will take rich soil supplemented by occa-
sional waterings with liquid manure.
CARLUDOVICA— About six species are in common cultivation. They
are usually taken for palms, so closely do they resemble some kinds in
the foliage; but they are not even related. The one most commonly
grown, and perhaps the most useful for the florist, is named C. palmata;
in leaf somewhat resembling a Livistona. From the seedling stage they
develop rapidly into specimen plants. Old plants flower freely. The
seeds are small and thin, about the size of those of Mignonette. Wash
carefully from the surrounding pulp and sow in a box of finely chopped
sphagnum. They germinate in three weeks. Let them grow in this
until large enough to put three round the edge of a 3-inch pot, from
these shift into 5-inch pots. With us the plants are useful for planting
outside in shaded places in Summer, and if slightly hardened off they
may be used in decorating. All the kinds are stove plants.
