2 7 G HA lilJ Y .SHE UBS.
cultivation. Most of them, however, are of little value for cut bloom.
They are handsoiue while in Hower, but they do not pay to grow along-
side of the varieties of the common species, S. vulgaris. Of these there is
an abundance to choose from. S. chiuensis, a small-leaved kind, is valu-
able on account of the long stems which support the flower heads. S.
persica, the Persian lilac, and S. p. laciniata make rather handsome
bushes, which is more than can be said of most of the kinds, as they are
decidedly unsightly when out of bloom comjjared with the majority of
ornamental shrubs. Th»y are all natives of the old w^orld. S. vulgaris
is indigenous to central Europe. Some of the finer varieties are as fol-
lows: Alba grandiflora and Marie Legraye, both large flowered and
pure white forms; Louis Van Houtte, dark red; Dr. Lindley, purplish
lilac; Charles X.. reddish-purple; Leon Simon, double, bluish-crimson;
Emile Lemoinp, double, rosy-lilac; Mme. Leraoine, double white. Propa-
gation is effected on in a variety of ways — seeds, suckers, layering, cut-
tings from half-ripe or dormant wood, budding and grafting. Raising
plants from seeds is practiced for producing new varieties and for sup-
plying stocks. The best stock is the California Privet, Ligustrum oval-
ifolium. By this method suckering is prevented. Layering is a sure
mpthod, and when a limited number of plants is wanted, it is the one
which should be practiced.
TAMARIX — All of the species give little trouble in their propagation . If
cuttings 6 inches long be made from the previous years wood and put in
gentle heat in the early Spring, they will root in a few days. Outdoor
propagation will require the cuttings to be made nearly a foot long.
ULEX EUROP/€US (Whin, Gorse, Furze)— Although this beautiful
shrub frequentlj^ gets winter-killed with us, yet we would not think of
doing without it. It is useful for planting in the front of a shrubbery,
in sunny places. It starts into active growth very early in the season,
and late frosts do more injury than the very severe frosts of midwinter,
although, like many other things, it does not like rapid thawing and
freezing during Winter. Seedlings are easily raised, and with good
treatment they will bloom when two years old.
VIBURNUM, (Snowball, Queder Rose)— Owing to their large and
showy heads of sterile flowers, several of the kinds are much grown in
shrubberies, in groups on lawns, and for cutting. V. Opulus sterilis is
the one most largely cultivated; it comes in earlier than the Japanese
species, V. plicatum, .which is the best for cutting, as the flowers last
longer, having more substance to them. When propagated from cut-
tings the growing tips should be taken in Summer; this must be done
during a wet spell or from bushes which have been kept watered, other-
wise the cuttings are very apt to lose their leaves during the process.
V. macrocephalum, as the name implies, has large heads of flowers; in
fact, too large to be of much service in cutting. This form is shy in root-
ing from cuttings, and is usually worked on seedlings of any of the free-
growing species. There are numerous species, but their flowers are not
showy. V. reticulatum has very handsome foliage, and forms a neat
tall bush. Propagated from green cuttings. V. Tinus is an evergraen
species, frequently getting injured here during Winter; there are several
desirable forms of it.
VITEX AQNUS=CASTUS (Chaste Tree)— In this section one of our
best late blooming shrubs, surviving the Winter without protection.
