2 IS HAIIDY SHRUBS.
The flowers are purplish-blue or white. The plant bloomd in Augrust
and September. V. cannabafolia forms large, wide bushes, but it suffers
during very severe weather. Both species are best raised from seeds.
There is a hybrid form between the two species, with V. Agnus-castus
as the seed parent; it is equally as hardy as that species, and comes
true from seed.
XANTHOCERAS SORBIFOLIA, a nntive of Northern China, was first
grown in Europe about ;^0 years ago. Tt flowers after reaching a height
of about 18 inches. Adult specimens, it is said, reach a height of 20
feet. The flowers are arranged singly, on a central stalk, which is sev-
eral inches long. The stalk is upright, the bottom flowers opening first.
In general appearance the individual flowers have a striking resemblance
to those of the Shortia galacifolla. They havethesamecrumpled appear-
ance on first opening. The outward parts of the petals are pure white, and
nearest the base the color is at first yellowish green, subsequently
streaked with brownish-red and eventually changing to a brighter red.
The flower stalks are produced on the ends of the previous seasons wood;
flowers and foliage expand together. In appearance the foliage some-
what resembles that of the Mountain Ash. The fruit is quite large, fully
the size of a horse chestnut. The seeds are brownish black, three-quar-
ters of an inch in diameter. They should be sown soon as ripe and kept
cool so as not to force germination until the middle of April. To insure
the l)est results each sped should be sown singly in a .3-lnch pot. Tbis
does away with the possibility of injuring the tender roots in transfer-
ring to larger receptacles or to nursery rows. From some cause many
of the seeds produce plants which are entirely white instead of green;
ihese die when a few weeks old.
YUCCA (Adams Needle)— The hardy species of this genus are all
ornamental plants thriving in situations fully exposed to the sun.
Almost any soil will suit them. Some of the most useful species are Y.
gloriosa (of which there are numerous varieties, one of the best being
Y. g. recurvifolia), Y. angustifolia and Y. filamentosa. They are
increased by dividing th^ stPins and planting in a shaded spot until
rooted; also, in some species, by seeds, and from root cuttings.
