288
General Directions^
Pfopagfation— Seeds, Grafting:, Buddingf, and Layering: —
Hybridization, Potting: Plants, Drainage, Soil,
Mulching:, Watering:,
PROPAGATION.
All plants may be propagated by oue or more of the following
methods: Seeds, spores, bulbils, budding, grafting, layering, cuttings of
the stems, twigs, leaves and roots, suckers, divisions of the crowns or
by stolons or runners. Cuttings are usually made from dormant wood
in the cases of shrubs and trees whether they be evergreen or deciduous;
and in the case of soft wooded plants the growths most recently made
are those selected. Cuttings of leaves sometimes root freely and produce
young plants or tubers, as in Begonia rex and Gloxinia. There are many
devices in which to root cuttings, such as double bell glasses placed over
double pots, one of the pots being supplied with w ater, the other with
sand; handlights, and so forth; but they are of little service and are
seldom used. Deciduous shrubs are usually propagated out-of-doors.
Hardy perennials, such as Iberis, Dianthus and Onosma are propagated
in cold frames. Many of the evergreen shrubs do well in a propagatine:
house from which frost is kept out, while the tender plants, both hard
and soft wooded, are rooted in an open bed of a warm house the atmos-
pheric temperature of which does not fall lower than 55 degrees during
the coldest weather. For plants which need more heat a propagating
frame is easily erected in the warmest part of the house; this, with a
minimum bottom heat of 75 degrees, serves for Nepenthes and other
plants slow to root under ordinary conditions. Propagation by
suckers, division, stolons and runners is an easy matter, and each species
so treated readily suggests the means to be employed. Many plants
difficult to propagate by the usual methods of cuttings of the branches
yield readily to cuttings made from the roots. The Moss Rose is a fa-
miliar example. Clerodendrons, Fatsias, Paulownia imperialis. Rasp-
berry, Blackberry and Xanthoceras all come freely from roots. Among the
herbaceous plants the roots of Anemone japonica and Lychnis vesper-
tina, when cut up quite small, will give plants from every piece. Indoor
plants, such as Manettia cordifolia and Cephfelis ipecacuanha will give
plants more readily by this method than any other.
Seeds— The soil in which to sow seeds, especially that portion of it
which is near the surface, and in which there are weed seeds, should be
prepared beforehand so as to avoid the necessity of pulling up the weeds
and the consequent danger attending the operation of dislodging the
seeds which we wish to germinate, especially during the process of ger-
