284 GENERAL DIRECTIONS.
mination. The most natural method is to spread the soil out on a flat
surface in a hothouse and encourage the weed seeds to germiuate by the
aid of heat and moisture. The soil should be spread out quite shallow,
and in a few days time the seeds that are likely to prove most trouble-
some will have germinated. The weeds that one finds most noxious are
quick in germinating, and will be rendered harmless by this method.
They are principally Lamium, Plantago, Ragweed, Grasses, Draba, An-
themis, Rumex, Portulaca, Acalpyha, Oxalis and Trifolium; but the list
varies with different localities. Burning or steaming the soil is often
resorted to, but for seed sowing I prefer the other method as more likely
to rid the soil thoroughly of the common, troublesome weeds. Soil in-
tended for use in connection with raising Ferns from spores should be
treated even more carefully, in order to destroy every vestige of vegeta-
ble life. To do this thoroughly the soil should be boiled for a reasonable
length of time, and afterward dried in the sun. Seedlings which from
their nature require pricking off (that is putting around the outer edge
of the soil in pots, or in rows, in boxes) shortly after the seed leaves are
developed, should be raised in seed vessels which have at least half their
depth devoted to drainage. Most of this should consist of pieces of
broken pots, or cinders, covered over with some rough material, such as
half-decayed leaves, to prevent the soil washing down. In very shallow
seed vessels, whether pans or boxes, the bottom part should be covered
with rough screenings, with finer soil above, and pressed moderately
firm. In covering the seeds the old rule is to cover the seed with its own
thickness in soil, and if followed out few mistakes will be made. The
covering should not be of such a nature as to bake readily; finely
screened sphagnum moss mixed with sand is a good substance with
which to cover almost any medium-sized seeds that take a reasonably
short time in germinating, as it retains moisture without imparting too
much to the soil below. Very small seeds, such as those of Begonias
and Gloxinias, do not need any covering; but to preserve a humid
atmosphere around them, or to furnish the conditions necessary for
germination, they must be covered with something which prevents a
too rapid evaporation of moisture. This is supplied by a pane of glass,
which should be kept on until the seed leaves appear. It need not fit
tightly, so as to preclude the possibility of a slight circulation of air;
where this is the cose the seedlings are apt to die from fungous attacks,
even before the seed leaves are developed. Where glass is used as a cover-
ing for small seedH the soil ought to be moderately moist before sowing.
Thickly sown seed is an evil to be guarded against, a crowded box or pan
of seedlings, whether thev be Ferns or flowering plants, is next to useless,
because shortly after germinating the seedlings begin to get weak and
never afterward make such healthy plants as those which get a chance
to form short, stocky growth— enough at least to enable one to handle
them easily during the operation of pricking or potting off. Seeds, as
soon as germinated, as a rule, should not be kept in a shaded place, as
then they are apt to get drawn; that is, too much length between
the surface of the soil and the seed leaves. Most seedlings in the early
part of the season will stand all the sun they can get. This especially
applies to seedlings of such plants as Phlox Drummondii, Madagascar
