285 GENERAL DIRECTIONS.
Vincas and Verbenas. Among herbaceous perennials some of the Del-
phiniums and Rheums, also man^- of the umbelliferous plants have seed-
lings with the petioles of the seed leaves forming a long tube and looking
as if they were very much drawn, no matter whether grown in sun
or shade. But this is their nature, as the plumule has to penetrate the
tube near the base in order to reach the light, instead of between the
blades of the seed leaves. A great many kinds of plants in the seedling
stage, when pricking off becomes necessary, are not of sufficient size to
go into small pots; in these they take up too much room and are apt to
suffer from too much or too little water. One will get dry here and
there, and the chances are that when water is given others in the neigh-
borhood will get water when they do not need it. Putting several in a
pot is just as unsatisfactory, as they must be divided up as soon as
sufficient growth is made, and repotted. This applies especially to her-
baceous plants which have a large number of fibry roots instead of a
tap root. I find the plan of putting the seedlings in boxes, when large
enough to handle, to be the most satisfactory method. Watering is then
an easy matter, and the seedlings, when large enough, can be trans-
ferred to the open ground or potted up as required— it is a saving of
space and a saving in labor, especially when the seedlings are transferred
to frames and to their permanent quarters. The seeds of mauy plants
may be safely sown at almost any time of the year. The majority of
herbaceous plants should be sown during the late Summer, as they
occupy comparatively [little space throughout the Winter months, and
numerous species will bloom the succeeding year, especially if the plants
be put in their permanent positions in the Fall, which I have found a
very advisable thing to do in this section. Seeds of herbaceous plants,
sown early in Spring, especially by amateurs, do not help in making
those plants popular, as the seedlings in the majority of cases do not
flower the first year, and some of the species not even during the second
season.
Grafting consists of placing together two separate parts of plants so
that they will unite and grow as one. That part on which the graft is
placed is usually a plant provided with roots, and is called the stock.
The graft, or cion, is the part which is intended to develop into the
future part of the tree, shrub, or vine, as the case may be, which bears
leaves, flowers and fruits. When the union has taken place, both stock
and cion continue developing as one plant, with, in most instances, very
little to indicate that stock and cion, or roots and branches, belong to
different species, varieties, or forms. Grafting is, however, frequently
done upon the branches of trees, shrubs or even herbaceous plants, so
that frequently we may see several varieties in flower together, or earlier
or later as the case may be, with the flowers of the species, or variety,
upon which the grafts are growing. Some of the reasons why grafting
is resorted to as a means of propagating certain species, but principally
varieties and forms, in preference to other methods of propagation, are
as follows: In growing seedling fruit trees it often requires a long num-
ber of years to know whether these seedlings are worth perpetuating,
as seedlings are apt to be a long time in fruiting, partly owing to their
robust growth; but every species of plant raised from seed takes a cer-
