288 GENERAL DIRECTIONS.
tain tim. before the flowerine: and frii\ting stage is reached. When old
enough to give wood for ciuus, the seedlings which we will suppose to
be the results of cross-fertilization, are grafted on older seealings, or
fruit-bearing stocks, with the result that flowering and fruiting are hast-
ened verj^ considerably. When it is desired to propagate a large num-
ber of any selected variety that has thus been flowered and fruited, the
grafts are often used on one or two-year-old seedling stocks. It will
thus be seen that a very large number of slow flowering and fruiting
plants can be raised by this method, in a comparatively short time.
But the uses to which it is put by no means end here. Some flowering
shrubs have the same characteristics; they take quite a long while to
flower from the seedling stage. Very often seedlings do not make florlf-
erous plants, and many of the forms do not produce seeds at all. There-
fore, recourse is had to grafting or budding, not only to lessen as much
as possible the time between the periods of propagation and flowering,
but also to perpetuate certain peculiarities in species and varieties
which can not be brought about by seeds or cuttings. Again, frequently
the stock has beneficial influences upon the cion. One of them is that
some things which are comparatively tender are rendered hardier by be-
ing grafted upon the stocks of hardy species or their varieties. In order
to make fruit trees dwarf, such as apples and pears, certain well known
stocks are used for this purpose, such as Paradise and Doucin stocks for
apples and quince for pears. For outdoor grafting the usual time is in
the Spring, just before the plants are in active growth, the actual time
varying, of course, with different plants and in different parts of the
country. Thecions are cut in early Winter, and buried in the soil or
sand, just out of the reach of frost. This keeps them fresh and plump,
and in a condition to readily unite with the stock. This methods of
grafting are numerous; some of them are quite complicated and have
been originated merely to show the skill of some operator. The easiest
way may be said to be the best, and the best methods are so easy that
an intelligent child may be taught in a short time to perform the work
successfu ly. Indoor grafting is practiced during August and September,
and, with dormant wood, during the period from December to March.
As a rule, the closer the relationship between stock and cion the greater
the chances of a successful union between them. But plants are some-
times su -cessfully grafted on stocks of different genera of the same
order. The Syringa on the Ligustrum is a familiar example. Some of
the most familiar methods of grafting are as follows :
Saddle Grafting— In this case that part of the stock on which the cion
is to be placed is cut to a wedge shape. A neatly made notch is cut in
the bottom part of the wood of the cion to fit closely over the wedge-
shaped part of the stock. This method is used in grafting Rhododen-
drons,
Crown grafting is performed by heading back a large-sized stock,
making an incision in the bark from the severed part downward. Raise
the bark on each side of the perpendicular cut, as in budding; make a
slanting cut on one side of the cion, and insert beneath the bark; bind
together and cover with grafting wax.
Veneer grafting is principally practiced on coniferous plants and
Rhododendrons. It consists of making a cross cut through the bark
