GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 291
and slightly into the wood. A short distance above this cross cut begin
with a slanting cut downward until the first cut is reached; shape the
cion so that it fits exactly ; tie in position and cover with wax. The
stock is headed back after the union has taken place.
Tongue or whip grafting is used with seedlings as stocks, the stock
and cion being of the same thickness. A slanting cut is made on the
two surfaces to be joined with a tongue in each, so made that the
tongues will fit exactly in their places. A little practice will show where
the tongues should be made.
Inarching consists of uniting the cion to the stock while it is still
supported by the parent root. It is the simplest of all the methods. A
slice of bark and cambium is cut from both stock and cion, the two
brought together so as to fit exactly; they are then firmly tied. After
the union is assured the cion is gradually severed from the parent to
avoid a too sudden check.
Root grafting is a very simple operation, and is practiced with such
plants as Clematis, Rose, Shrubby Pseony, and many other plants.
When all other stock fails this may be tried, merely selecting roots of the
same or allied species. The Shrubby Pseonies are grafted on the large
tuber-looking roots of the herbaceous species. A notch is made in the
side of the swollen tuber-like root, the lower part of the cion being made
to fit this.
With Roses and Clematis splice grafting will answer; with Wistarias
and Bignonias saddle grafting answers well.
In grafting a very sharp and clean knife should be used, to make a
clean cut, so that the surfaces may go closely together. In all cases the
bark of both stock and cion should come evenly together, at least on
one side, and on both if possible. In no case should the cion be thick-
er than the stock.
Budding differs from grafting in that only a single bud is uped on the
stock instead of a piece of branch on which there are one or more buds,
as in grafting. A near relationship must exist between the plant from
which the bud is selected and the plant which is to receive it. The opera-
tion is a trifle more delicate than that of grafting, but a little practice
will render it an easy task. The best time for the work is after the
plants have completed most of their growth, but before they approach
the dormant stage. All that is necessary to accomplish the first season,
when done during late Summer, is to secure a union. The bud remains
dormant until the following Spring. There are several methods; that
most commonly practiced consists of making a cross cut through the
barK of the stem of the stock. It should never be greater than for one-
third of the circumference. From the center of thecross cut make a longi-
tudinal cut downward; raise the bark sufficiently in the angles of the
cut parts; this is best accomplished with a finely prepared quill. The
stock is now ready for the reception of the bud ; this is taken us-
ually from a branch smaller in circumference than the stock. It
must necessarily be from the current years wood, and the bud should
be from the central part of the shoot. Cut the leaf away, but not too
near the bud. and with a sharp, clean knife slice the bud from the shoot.
It is immaterial if a little of the wood be taken with the bark, but the
