292
GKSi:nA L DIllECTIOSS.
length of bark should be greater belov.- the bud than above. The top
part should be cut off transversely one-third of an inch above the bud
and double that distance below. After the bud has been placed in posi-
tion, tie moderately firm with raffia, examining it from time to time to
prevent the raffia from cutting into the bark. Budding is usually per-
formed during the latter part of Summer.
Layering — This operation is on the same principle as that of mossing
Rubber plants and Crotons, that is, producing roots on the branches
while yet attached to the parent plant. It is exceedingly simple when
done correctly, but some of the little details left out, or performed the
wrong way, will render the operation unsuccessful. An expert, with
shrubs amenable to this method of increase, will seldom lose a layer.
Briefly stated, the operation consists of bending a branch low enough
so that after it has been notched, tongued or ringed, as the case may
be, the part so treated should be several Inches beneath the surface of
the soil, so as to throw out roots, while being at the same time supplied
with nourishment from the partnt plant. It is a convenient method of
rooting large pieces of a bush, and should be practiced where small
quantities of certain things are desired, especially those which are diffi-
cult to increase by other methods of propagation. In layering it is
necessary to select branches near the ground, so that they can be bent
down without breaking. To perform the operation by tongueing, with
a sharp knife make an incision in the lower part of the branch at the
place where it is desired to have the roots. The incision should vary in
length and depth with the thickness of the branch; it should never be
deeper than half the thickness of the wood, and should be made toward
the end of the branch so that the tongue will eventually form the base
of the stem after being separated from the parent plant. The layer,
while undergoing the process of rooting, should be held in place with a
peg, which must be strong enough to last several months in the ground.
With few exceptions shrubs and vines are layered during Summer while
the plants are in active growth. In layering, it should be kept in mind
that the soil surrounding the part from which roots are desired should
never be allowed to get dust dry; to prevent this a little sphagnum
moss should be placed around the cut part, in cases where the rooting
is a slow process; and a layer of moss, or other material, on the surface
of the soil will prevent a too rapid evaporation of moisture. But, in
any case, copious waterings during dry weather will be found beneficial.
In the treatment of vines, such plants as Glycine sinensis and Pueraria
Thuubergiana can be layered the entire length of the previous seasons
growth, thus giving a plant at every joint. The period at which the
layer may be severed from the parent must be governed by the quantity
of roots made. Better to keep it on the plant than to sever too early.
After a season has elapsed the majority will have rooted, if attention
has been given; but it will not hurt to let them stay for a longer period
attached to the old plant. For furnishing suitable wood for layers, old
plants are sometimes cut down quite close , to the ground, in order to
produce a quantity of young growth. Plants so treated are termed
stools. Some of the plants which layer easily are Rhododendrons,
Enkiai-itiius, Gordonias, Magnolias, especiallj^ the Asiatic species and
