2i4 GEXKRAL liIIlFJTlOSS.
their hybrid variatioue, Syriu^as, F(r8ythias, Ligustrums and the
Hybrid Perpetual Roses.
HYBRIDIZATION.
Much has been accomplished by the union of species, and especially by
the crossing of varieties; but the work is only in its infancy, because
that which has already been done has been, to a large extent, chance
work. We do not possess well-established rules for guidance in the
selection of parents. Much labor has unwittingly been expended
upon impossible subjects, through a desire on the part of the oper-
ator to produce some astonishing result all at once. Even from
plants which readily cross, many seedlings are raised, which, be-
cause of poor judgment used in selection of parents, only result in
discouraging the breeder. Beginners who are inclined to practice
hybridizing should confine their attenion toward improving types
which are already well advanced, pos.-ibly using a desirable spe-
cies as a seed parent, but fighting shy of crossing two species. To prose-
cute the actual work inteligently, the operator should have at least a
slight knowledge of the relationship of one species to another as well ap
of the genera and natural orders. A knowledge of the different parts of
a flower and the missions they are intended to fulfill are absolutely
necessary. It may be briefly stated that most flowers have male and
female organs in the same flower, such as we find in flowers of the Eose.
Some plants have the male and female organs on separate flowers, but
on the same plant as in Begonia. Others again have the male tiowers
on one plant, and the female flowers on another, as in Nepenthes and
Willow. Artificial pollination consists simply in transferring the pollen
from the anthern of one flower to the etigma of another. To make sure
that this polkn will have every opportunity to act, and pollen of the
same or other plants, which is not wanted, excluded, the stamens or
male organs of the flower to be pollinated should be removed before the
anthers are in a condition to shed their pollen, and the flower afterward
tied up in a very fine gauze, or paper bag, during the process of fertili-
zation.
POTTING PLANTS.
No rules can be laid down which would apply equally to all kinds of
plants grown in pots, as different kinds of plants require different treat-
ment in this respect. Some require that the soil be rammed quite firmly
about tlie old ball. These, as a rule, are hard-wooded plants, with fine
roots, such as Heaths and Azaleas. Palms thrive best in a moderately
well-firmed soil. Soft-growing plants are less fastidious in this respect.
Again, there are seasons when some plants should be potted. The hard-
wooded kinds are usually potted in Spring before active growth com-
mences. P^erns are given their annual shift before starting into growth;
many of them, however, will stand shifting several times during a year.
But for all plants it may be stated that the beginning of their resting
season should find the ball of earth well supplied with roots, for if given
a shift when growth is completed water will lodge in the fresh soil, and
this will turn sour and almost certainly cause the plant to become
