26 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
CENTRADENIA— Of this there are three species, combining handsome
foliago and rather pretty flowers. C. grandifolia has the largest leaves,
and is the most useful for decorative work. The other species are C.
floribuuda and C rosea. Cuttings will root at anytime of the year. To
get good growth on the plants during Summer they should be started
from cuttings in March. An intermediate house suits them; they require
but little shade.
CENTROPOQON— C. Lueyanum is said to be a bi-generic hybrid. The
parents are given as Centropogon fastuosum and Siphocampylus betu-
lypfolius. It is one of the very best stove or warm greenhouse herba-
ceous perennials. There is no great difficulty in its cultivation; but it
is seldom seen in collections. The flowers are rosy carmine, produced in
midwinter. After blooming numerous small shoots will usually appear
along the branches; these taken off w itli a heel root with bottom heat.
The young plants will thrive in heat and moisture during the first two
or three months; they may afterwards be grown in a frame. After the
blooming season is over the old plants may be given a period of rest,
and then repotted, using a light, rich material.
CESTRUM CORYMBOSUn and C. NEWELLI may be used for flower-
ing about Christmas, if young ])lants are started about the end of
August, the wood to be taken from old specimens planted out. As soon
as rooted put in 3-inch pots, afterward placing three together in a 6-
inch pot to bloom. Keep in a sunny house, or the plants are apt to
make too much foliage.
CINERARIA— For coming into flower during March and April sow the
seed during September. As soon as large enough the seedlings should
be put in 2-inch pots, and from that time on they must not be allowed
to get in a pot-bound state. The coolest house, with a maximum
amount of light and air, is what they need. Soil should be light and
well enriched.
CONVOLVULUS— This genus possesses many weedy plants which,
when once they gain a foothold in the garden, are difficult to eradicate.
Several are very ornamental when in bloom. One of the best, especially
for baskets, an evergreen, with short pendulous growths, is named C.
mauritanicus. The flowers are blue, and about an inch across. This
plant is usually increased by division, or cuttings of the ripe growths
early in Spring. Seeds are also offered.
CORDVLINE— The greenhouse Cordylines, such as C. australis, C. indi-
visa and its forms, are best raised from seeds which are easily procura-
ble. Sow thinly, as they they will not require to be transferred during
the earlier stages of growth. They are good decorative plants, from
.5-inch pot plants up, having long, narrow strap-shaped drooping leaves.
Small plants are useful for mixing with other subjects in vases and bas-
kets, as thej^ stand full sun.
The ornamental leaved kinds, which need a higher temperature for
their perfect development, are very numerous. Some of the best known
are C. Baptistii, C. Cooperii, C. porphyrophylla, C. Youngii and C. termi-
