20r»« GEXERAL DIRECTIOSS.
sickly. Plants with fine hair-like roots should ouly be given small
shifts; rapid growing plants and those with large roots will take larger
shifts. In every case the ball should be moderately moist when potting.
Plants in the younger stages of their existence, whether seedlings or
cuttings, require the soil to be of a finer nature than when older, when
it may be rough and fibrous, and in the case of those which need it
manure of some kind added. In putting ordinary plants in pots above
the size of 4 or 5-inch, the firming of the soil should be done with the
aid of a piece of wood about 11/2 inches wide and y^-inch thick, or larger,
for very large plants. Enough space should always be left at the top of
the pot, so that when the ball of earth is in need of water one applica-
tion will be sufficient to wet it through. In potting cuttings it is the
usual custom to put in soil to one-third the depth of the pot; the cut-
ting is put in place, the remaining space filled up with soil, firmed with
the thumbs, then the bottom of the pot is knocked several times on the
bench. A better method is to have the knocking precede the firming
with the thumbs, for this reason: When the cutting is placed in posi-
tion, the soil added and thumb-firmed, the soil dues not get well distri-
buted among the rootlets nearly so well as when the pot is given one or
two gentle knocks before the thumbs are used. For most plants in the
cutting stage the thumbs should be used for evening the surface more
than for firming. Another reason, just as weighty as the last, is that
pressure from the thumb acts unevenly on the roots, pressing down
opposite sections, while the intervening spaces containing the tender
roots are stationary. This must necessarily result in twisting and
wrenching, which dangers are done away with, or at least lessened, by
first firming with the knocking process. Again, all the cuttings of a
batch will not have the same quantity of roots, and therefore they
should get different methods of treatment in potting. Those which
have a satisfactory number of roots may be put in the middle of the
pot, according to the usual custom; but those which have few roots,
and which look as if they would benefit by being left in the cutting bed
for a longer period, will, as a rule, come along all right if placed at the
edge of the pot instead of at the middle. The roots in this position
make progress rapidly, and the plantlets can easily be given a place
in the middle of a pot during their next shift. Cuttings with very fine
roots should always be treated in this way. Many cuttings, when
ready for potting, will be found to have the roots pointing downward
from the base of the cutting instead of radiating from it; these, if of a
delicate and easily bruised nature, can be preserved by taking some soil
in one hand, letting the fingers accompany it into the pot, and before
withdrawing them press the soil against one side of the pot; place the
roots against this and fill up with soil. In course of time practice will
enable the operator to pot cuttings as rapidly by this as by the ordinary
method. In potting cuttings during the Winter months very great care
should be exercised in preventing a check through putting them in soil,
which is of a lower temperature than the sand from which they have
been taken. It should not vary more than two degrees at the time of
potting.
