GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 297
Clean Pots— It is the common custom, and a bad one I think, to put
plants in dirty pots with merely the rough of the soil remaining in them
being removed with a stick or cloth before using. This operation takes
more time than washing. A large number of pots submerged in a big
tub of water and allowed to stand for a few days will have the material
adhering to them softened so that with a piece of woolen cloth and a
boy that knows how, a large number can be cleaned in a short time so
that they will be as good as new. There is no doubt that dirty pots
work to the injury of the plants in them. The inside soil adhering to the
pot after use prevents a plant being easily knocked out and the green
on the outside tends to make the pot less porous; besides, a plant looks
better by far in a clean pot than in a dirty one. New pots or thoroughly
dried, clean ones should not be used until they have been dipped in
water immediately before using, as they are apt to absorb too much of
the water meant for the plant after potting. Have divisions in the
potting shed for each size; it saves both time and pots, and when pot-
ting is to be done everything goes along more smoothly when the vari-
ous materials are ready at hand. There is usually more time wasted in
gathering the necessary sizes from here, there and everywhere, wiping
out a few at a time and punching a stick through the aperture at the
bottom than would be spent over the work if it were properly done.
System counts in this as in everything else.
Drainage — Crocking or arranging pieces of broken pots or other mate-
rial over the hole in the bottom of the flower pot for drainage is an
operation to which too little attention is apt to be given. For quick-
growing soft-wooded plants in small pots, or for those which are
intended to remain in the pot only for a short time, there is no necessity
for an elaborate system of drainage. Especially is this the case where
the ball of earth becomes so dry as to require watering at least once a
day. With plants of this nature, in pots above the size of 3-inch, a little
rough material thrown in the bottom will give compensatory results;
but as usually done this work takes more time than if the pots were
supplied in the regular way with potsherds. The rough pieces of the
potting soil are gathered up by hand and put in the pots as potting
proceeds. A better way will be secured as follows: Soil which is to be
used for cuttings, and which is screened, will give excellent material in
the rough pieces which do not pass through the meshes; this should be
saved, mixed with thoroughly rotted cow manure, and put in a box
conveniently situated for future use. This gives splendid material for
drainage, especially for bedding plants, such as Geraniums in 4-inch
pots, Cannas in 5-inch pots, and for young Chrysanthemums. It will
be found that that part of the pot holding this mixture will have a great
attraction for the roots. Where the pots are to serve for growing plants
in for any length of time, potsherds should be used. With Palms, Ferns
and such plants as Pandanus, Dracapnas and Marantas a carefullj^
crocked pot cuts quite a figure in their healthy root action. For Cala-
diums, Alocasias, Anthuriums and other plants which require an abun-
dant supply of water, careful drainage is an absolute necessity. With
fine-rooted plants, such as Heaths and Azaleas, drainage is equally
important. It will be found good policy to have a supply of the differ-
