198 GENERAL DIRECTIONS.
ent sizes of crocks on hand all the time. The crocks should consist of
three sizes, the largest size in pieces from two to three inches across;
the next large enough to go through a No. 1 sieve, and the small size
from one-quarter to one-half-inch in diameter. The quickest way to
procure the different sizes is to breakup the potsherds with a good-sized
iiammer, so that the largest pieces are from two to three inches across;
put into a No. 4 or G sieve to screen out the dust and smaller particles,
which may be thrown away. Next screen through a half-inch sieve and
these will serve as the smallest-sized crocks. The pieces which the half-
inch sieve retain put into an inch sieve. This will give the second size,
and what is left will answer for pieces to put over the holes in the bot-
toms of the pots. All three sizes should be kept in separate boxes, or
divisions on the potting bench, handy for use. In crocking, spread out
a number of pots on the bench, take a piece of broken pot about twice
the diameter of the hole in the bottom of the pot, place the concave side
of the crock directly over the hole. If the pot is a small one, a few of
the smaller-sized crocks over the larger pieces will be sufficient; but if a
6-inch pot, or larger, it is best to arrange a few large pieces around the
first piece, finishing off with smaller ones. On top of the crocks, to pre-
vent the soil from getting among them, either during the operation of
potting or from being washed down afterward, sphagnum moss is often
used, although this is not the best material for the purpose, as it is apt
to retain moisture to a greater extent than the soil above it. Half
decomposed leaves are preferable.
SOIL.
Loam is the principal soil used for most plants. If containing
much clay it is made lighter and more porous by adding peat, leaf
mould and sand. Each grower of plants should have the loam he uses
analyzed by a professional analyst, in order to be certain of what it
contains, and to apply intelhgently the constituents in which it is defi-
cient for the different classes of plants. Two excellent books on this
subject are: The Soil, by Professor King, Wisconsin, and Lectures
on Some of the Physical Properties of Soil, by Professor R. Warington.
MULCHING.
This consists of covering the surface of the soil with any loose
material, such as well-rotted manure, cocoanut fiber, stable litter,
or half-decayed leaves. It acts in retaining the moisture in the ground
for the benefit of vegetation instead of being lost by rapid evaporation.
The soil, especially after heavy rainstorms, gets a firm crust on the sur-
face which ultimately cracks open, readily parting with the moisture
to a good distance beneath the surface; thus the mulch acts as a layer
between the drying influence of the atmosphere and the surface of the
soil, preventing it from getting hard and keeping it open. A good mulch,
besides preventing evaporation is, to a certain extent, similar in its
action to a loose, silty surface soil, drawing upthe moisture from several
feet below the surface. Mulching is also beneficial, because if manure is
