GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 200
used in which there is any feeding substance it is washed down to the
roots of the plants by heavy rains. Cultivating acts in a similar man-
ner to mulching, as the soil which is loosened may be said to be a mulch
of loose soil; but to be of the greatest service this operation should be
performed after every shower of rain. Plants in pots need the surface
stirred occasionally, partly for the same reason that plants in the open
ground are benefited by frequent cultivating. The top layer of soil in
the pots gets into a caked condition; this is indicated at times by the
water standing on the surface longer than usual, and is caused by the
particles of soil being reduced by the action of the water to a muddy
state, forming a kind of puddle through which water takes a long while
to percolate. When potting, a little rough sand scattered on the surface
is an excellent preventive, keeping the whole mass porous and doing
away with the necessity of frequent stirring.
WATERING.
This is the most important work that falls to the lot of the plant
grower. It cannot be learned by reading a paper or a book on the sub-
ject, and the man who wields the watering can, or hose, no u)atter how
intelligent he may be, will water plants for years after a fabbioii, and
yet have a great deal to learn. About all that can be said on the sub-
ject is to water a plant when it needs it. The trouble lies in knowing
when it needs it. The operator should first know the plant, all about
it, where it comes from, whether it inhabits a bog or a mountain top,
whether it is rapid or slow growing, its natural periods of growth and
rest, and the same under cultivation. Next he must know the condi-
tion of the roots, the kind of soil it is potted in and when potted-
Among other things he should know will be the chemical composition
of the water, and whether it is suitable for the plants he is watering.
The temperatures of the soil and water during the operation is another
important item. Next he should frequently go over different plants in
different soils, knock one out of its pot here and there an hour or so
after watering, to ascertain whether the ball has been wet an inch or
two below the surface with the remainder dust dry, or if the happy
medium has been struck. In short, it may be said that the successful
cultivator understands how and when to water only after years of
experience. Watering with the hose is often the cause of a good deal of
harm, both to plants (5n benches, in the open ground, and in pots, owing
to the manner in which water is applied. It is a favorite method with
some to force the water out of a small nozzle to a distance of 20 feet, or
a less distance, with the finger partly over the end of the hose. A better
method than this could not be designed for the packing of the soil,
washing it into cakes by breaking it up into fine particles and filling up
the interstices with thick muddy water; and when the sun shines, if the
ground be not gone over with the cultivator or loosened up in some
other way, the surface soil gets as hard as a brick, and the roots near
the surface are subjected to a temperature far above what is good for
them. To do away with the necessity for this method of watering the
hose should be short in length, and stop cocks more frequently placed.
