302 SUPPLEMENT.
BEGONIA GLOIRE DE LORRAINE SECTION
The Gloire de Lorraine section of the Begonia has for one of its parents
an annual stemmed species with small Summer bulbils from each of which
a plant is formed, beginning growth at the end of Summer. This plant,
which is named B.Socotrana, is seldom seen in cultivation. The writer
was informed b} the late Alex. Scott, who discovered the plant in Socotra,
that it grows in limestone soils. Glory of Cincinnati seems to resemble
Socotrana in the formation of numerous buds at the base of the young
plant. Both of the two popular varieties should have rather light, sandy
soil. It would perhaps be in keeping with the requirements of these
plants if a small quantity of powdered oyster shells were incorporated
with the soil. Cuttings should be taken early in the season, but propa-
gation can be continued for a considerable period, thus giving salable
plants of different sizes. Shade is necessary during the Summer months,
but it should be dispensed with during the Autumn and Winter months.
GARDENIA. CAPE JESSAMINE
Within recent years the Gardenia has come rapidly into popular favor.
Years ago this plant was altogether grown in private establishments,
usually in very large pots or tubs. As a rule its cultivation was not as
successful as it is today by the bench system, the plants being favorite
breeding places for mealy bug and scale insects, and except in rare instances
they did not pay for the trouble bestowed on them.
The successful method of treatment accorded to this plant at the
present time does not differ materially from that given to Roses on benches.
Old plants, however, should never be grown, as they are prone to give
flowers with short stems, while plants propagated annually give long stems
and more flowers to the square foot of space. The best time to put in the
cuttings is from the last half of February to the middle of March. The
temperature of the propagating house should run from 65° to 70° at night.
W^ood for cuttings should be selected which is moderately firm. From the
terminal bud to the base the cutting should be about 23^ inches long; the
sand should be sharp and free from impurities. In from two to three weeks
the cuttings will have formed a sufficient quantity of roots; they are then
potted in 23^^-inch pots and subsequently placed in 4-inch, from which
size they are planted out in the benches in June. It is essential that the
plants be kept growing right along from the rooted cutting to the flowering
period. The soil best adapted to their requirements does not differ materi-
ally from that which is best suited to Carnations and Roses. The soil
should not be over four inches in depth. Exposure to light is one of the
main requisites. The atmosphere should be more moist than that usually
given Roses. Weak manure water should be given every two weeks.
The fertilizer known as Scotch soot seems to work wonders with this plant.
It is scattered on the surface of the bed once every two weeks, the quantity
being about a thumbpotful to every square foot of surface. However,
there is danger of overfeeding during dull weather.
The first lot of flowers may be expected early in October, with the heayi-
■est crop about the end of the year. Each plant may be expected to give
about ten flowers when the plants are about 14 inches apart. A southern
exposure is desirable to prevent rank growth and to firm the wood. Long
