SUPPLEMENT. 303
stems to the flowers are assured by removing the growth in the axils of the
leaves when the plants are in the beds. The essentials are: Dont over-
water, dont overfeed, have the manimum temperature about 65° F, keep
the plants free from insects. Longer stems are secured and flower buds
laid down by removing the growth in the axils of the leaves when plants
are making growth. Syringe frequently, keeping the atmosphere on the
humid side. Keep down insect pests by frequent fumigations.
SWEET PEAS
There are numerous methods of growing this popular flower for Winter
and Spring bloom; perhaps the greatest success is secured in ground beds.
The preparation of the soil is the all-important item. The plant is a gross
feeder, and, necessarily, the soil must be rich and deep. Soil troubles are
responsible for most of the failures to grow first class flowers. Three parts
good loam and one part well-decayed cow manure with a little lime to
a depth of fifteen inches has proved the best medium for good growth
and the production of first class flowers. It is always advisable to be
certain of having a little soil from clover or other legume pastures incor-
porated with the soil in the beds. There are various methods used in
raising the young plants. The seed is sometimes sown in pots or flats
and transferred to the beds. The best plan naturally is the one which
occasions least disturbance to the roots. Troubles commonly arise be-
cause of unfavorable house conditions, such as high, moist temperatures
inducing weak growth. It should be borne in mind that the Sweet Pea
is not a greenhouse flower; it thrives best in the open in cool climates. In
Washington they are past their best by the month of May. In Maine
they are in good condition for at least three months later. In Montreal
and in Scotland they last till the end of Summer. During warm, sunny
weather an abundance of ventilation must be given; a warm and humid
condition should be avoided at all times. The Sweet Pea is gradually
filhng more greenhouse space year by year and its cultivation is by no means
difficult if a few donts are kept in^mind. The demand for Sweet Peas
is greatest in the Winter months; therefore, the house chosen for the pur-
pose should be so constructed as to catch the maximum amount of sun-
shine. It is not possible for every establishment to have a house with a
long span to the south on the side of a hill; a structure of this character is
peculiarly well fitted for the best development of this plant, but satisfactory
flowers can be produced in other less favored structures. In the formation
of the beds perhaps the best method is to have them raised above the alleys
to a height of eight or ten inches. The beds may be from four to six feet
w^ide, running east and west, and the rows arranged crosswise in the beds.
This plan gives the best opportunity for the sun to play on every part of
the plant for a portion of the day. Water should be applied between the
rows partly to encourage the roots to grow in a horizontal direction.
When gathering the flowers, boards should be used on which to stand, thus
preventing puddling of the soil. The most suitable varieties must be left
to the judgment of the grower. The period between sowing the seed and
the flowering stage is from two and one-half to three months. In sowing
the seed rapid germination is secured by placing the seed in water until
it begins to swell; sow in drills and cover with sand. Four to six inches
apartpis a safe distance. The tall varieties should be sown at the north
