304 SUPPLEMENT.
sido of the house, the dwarf er varieties toward the south. In no ease
should the rows be hss than four feet apart. A sharp lookout should be
maintained to prevent red spider from gainini; a foothold. The bweet-
Pea is prone to the attaeks of this pest, espeeialh when high temperatures
are ujaintained and the soil beeomes dry. Syringing during the early part
of the day when the soil is on the dry side is the only safe remedy when this
pest has secured a foothold. Green fly is kept in cheek by fumigating.
Supports for the vines must be f)rovided before the plants have got beyond
the seedling stage. The flowers should be cut as soon as they are in a
marketable stage and the seed pods removed as soon as they appear.
ROSES
New Hoses, both forcing and outdoor varieties, have been produced in
abundance during the last few years. Mrs. Aaron Ward and Sunburst
are yellow on opening, fading to a Gloire de Dijon color. Both are well
adapted for growing in the open border^ as they are free blooming. The
Lyon, a cross between Mme. Melanie Soupert and an unnamed seedling
of Soleil dOr, promises to have a long career in the garden. Prince of
Bulgaria shows up well outside. Gruss an Teplitz is undoubtedly our
finest red border Rose: it is a rare sight to see it out of bloom during the
season. White and red Maman Cochet have a long career before them.
Duchess of Wellington has been seen only as a border Rose; it keeps its
yellow^ color longer than other yellow^ Teas. Radiance and My Marjdand,
both for forcing and outdoor purposes, are well up in the front rank. The
new white Caroline Testout, a sport of the old Rose of that name, a plant
of w^hich was secured last year (1911) from an E^linburgh firm, looks
promising. One of the latest introductions is Milady (H.T.), across be-
tween Richmond and J. B. Clark. It is a red Rose of wonderful color and
rich fragrance; of strong growth, very productive, and has good keeping
qualities. The variety is strongly recommended as an excellent forcing
Rose. Among the climbers, Dorothy Perkins and Hiawatha hold high
rank; plants produced from self -fertilized seeds of the last named give
a lot of good things both in bush form and climbers. Tausendschon
is a strong grower with a bewildering array of bloom. The remarkable
Rose named Juliet has a beautiful combination of color, especially when
seen in cold climates. It is to be hoped this varietv will succeed in the
United States.
STOCKS. MATTHIOLA INCANA
This is a comparatively easy plant to manage and one which is much
more widely grown than heretofore. The varieties are more numerous
and there are strains obtainable with surprisingly few singles among a
batch of plants.
It is raised from seed at intervals from June to Novembei-. The seed-
lings should be put in small pots when of sufficient size and repotted into
larger ones before planting in beds. Clean pots should be used, as the
roots are then less liable to injury when the ball is removed. Twelve inches
apart is a sufficient distance to plant, although they will stand more neg-
lect than most other things. A sharp lookout should be kept for insects
on the foliage. The soil should be rich and about six inches deep. Natur-
ally, they are at their best in a cool house with full exposure to the sun.
