STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 27
nalis. Especially from the last-named species many varieties have been
raised. Propagation is quickest brought about by cutting up the long
stems into pieces about 3 inches in length; put in warm sand and keep
moderately damp. They will throw up shoots from each eye; these
should be taken off and put in the sand to form strong, fresh roots, as
they are provided, when attached to the parent stem, only with very
weak roots and sometimes none at all. They will root quickly, and
may be potted according to their size, in 2 or 3-inch pots, and grown on
quickly in a high temperature. When they rea^h a marketable
size the hardening-off process is necessary, or they will not stand long
when used for decorating. In C. neo-caledouica, C. brasiliensis and C.
amabilis the thickened root stocks may be cut up into pieces along with
the stems for propagation. C. cannaefolia does not succeed so well when
cut up into small pieces. It is a splendid decorative plant, standing
much rough usage. Moss the tops and afterward place pieces of the
stems, at least a foot long, in the bench of a cool house, as they take
their own time in sending up growths. The species and forms with
highly colored foliage will need a minimum temperature in Winter of at
least .5.5 degrees. The others will succeei with the thermometer 15
degrees lower. With the greenhouse kinds loam should predominate in
the potting soil, but the others should get a greater quantity of leaf soil.
For other kinds commonly grown see Dracaena.
CROTON— The Croton or Codiseum, as it is now called, has in the
warmer parts of the country forged its way to the front as a choice bed-
ding plant, and very deservedly so, as the species and varieties are a
very satisfactory class of plants and much easier to handle than was
generally supposed a few years ago, when they were coddled all the year
round in hothouses. Several of the kinds are so easily grown that they
can be got up with as little trouble and as cheaply as geraniums; but
they are, of course, not the choicest varieties. Those stock plants which
were planted out early in May (that is a safe period here, but, of course,
later in colder latitudes) will, by the middle of August, have made good
ripened wood, which should be selected for propagating early in Septem-
ber. The cuttings at that period should be large and put in the bed
with only a few of the lower leaves removed. Let them form quite a
large bunch of roots in the propagating bed before being potted, as they
are a trifle miffy to take with the soil when they have only a scanty
supply of roots — enough to comfortably fill a 4-inch pot will be about
right. Those plants will need shifting during the Winter, and if kept in
a warm, moist house, will be well furnished plants in 5 and 6-inch pots
by bedding out time. The principal batch of the commoner kinds for
bedding may be put in by the middle of January. The old plants which
were lifted from the beds in the Fall should be pruned back severely, and
all the growth available for propagating selected. A good bottom
heat and a humid atmosphere are necessary to root the cuttings at
this time, as the wood is not in a very ripe condition. Cuttings put in
at any time should not be taken from plants which are dry at the root,
as they are then apt to lose leaves in the cutting bed. Cuttings 8 or 10
Inches in length root as easily as the easiest rooting soft-wooded plants
if given a good bottom heat and a depth of 4 or 5 inches of sand. There
