28 STOVE AND GREENHOVSIC PLANTS.
is no necessity to have a frame; the open propagating bed will answei
nicely. Those plants which are intended to be planted out-of-doors
should have the hardening-off process begun by the end of April; if
taken directly from a hothouse the bottom leaves will fall off. Old
plants which did duty during the Summer months as bedderH,and which
were planted out instead of being plunged in pots, should be kept well
syringed after being potted and housed, as they are very liable to the
attacks of thrips and red spider. When plants intended to be lifted in
the Fall are put out in May, I believe it is the best plan to sink pot and
all. They seem to thrive best with restricted root room so that when
lifted, although a few roots may be developed on top and outside the
pot, it is safer when lifted to shift them into larger pots than to lift and
pot plants which have been growing in the soil of the bed. With these
it is almost certain to be the case that a considerable number of leaves
will be lost. Most of the finer kinds w-ill need a temperature of at least
60 degrees by night, keeping the air moist and giving water by frequent
sy ringings. Large cuttings in the sand bed or propagating frame should
be examined now and then, to guard against thrips and red spider. If
these pests appear, a syringing with a weak solution of the old reliable
Gishurts Compound will prove beneficial.
Ringing Crotons— This simple operation is brought into requisition
when it is desired to root the top part of any particularlj fine specimen.
The stem of the parent plant may be destitute of leaves for a considera-
ble distance above the pot, making the plant comparatively useless as a
specimen and only useful as a stock plant. Ringing, if successfully per-
formed, will give an almost perfect plant a foot or so high with large
leaves right down to the soil— a condition we can hardly hope for from
cuttings. Moreover, the rooted top sends out such a mass of working
roots that the succeeding growth is not stunted, but continues making
leaves every bit as large as the lowest ones— a condition much to be
desired when an evenly built up plant is wanted. Plants, then, should
be selected wiiich have good, healthy tops with finely-colored, well-
developed leaves, and if the bottom part near the pot has lost its leaves
this is the only use it can be put to. The house in which the operation
is peformed should be a warm one and shaded from the sun. so that the
material used to produce roots will not dry up too quickly. Select
those pieces which are dormant or have made their growth, because if
plants are taken during the process of making leaves they are bound to
carry some disfigurement afterward. The stem at the place to be rooted
should be denuded of the leaves for two or three inches of its length, and
with a sharp knife remove a small section of the bark; or, just as good,
make an incision in the wood upward of about three-quarters of an inch
in length, and in depth from one-third to one-half the diameter of the
stem. Insert a little sphagnum moss to keep the incision open, then tie
a small quantity around it, not too much or it will be apt to keep too
wet. After being tied small enough, so that the fingers can easily close
on it, stand the plant back in its place and see that the moss does not
suffer for want of water, because should this happen the tender tips of
the roots will be lost and the process of rooting will to a certain extent
have to be begun again.
