STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 29
As soon as the roots show through the moss the plants should be
potted, but not potted in the ordinary way. Many pots are broken
trying to get plants out of them, but in this ease we will have to break
pots to get the plants in. Thumb pots are quite large enough for the
first shift; and these must be broken into two pieces lengthwise. One-
half of one pot and one-half of another will not do, as the pieces must fit
closely, therefore break as many pieces as are wanted, and lay the pieces
one on top of the other before beginning the operation of potting. Sup-
ports must also be supplied, consisting of two sticks, one on each side,
and reaching to the mossed part of the stem. On one of the sticks, just
about where the middle of the pot will reach, twist a piece of wire, then
clasp the moss with the two pieces of pot, twist the wire firmly around
these and then on to the other stick. This will keep the pot in position
until the time to sever the top from the plant. This condition will be
indicated by the roots appearing through the bottoms of the pots. If
the tops are not of the largest size they can be cut off and placed in a
close frame for a few days before potting on ; if, instead, they are large, a
further application of material to the mossed part will be necessary.
For this purpose 3-inch pots will have to be used, and the material
should be fibrous peat, sand and loam mixed. When the roots show,
the tops may be cut off. Stand the pots inside of others of the same size
in the frame, until they recover to a certain extent, then pot and keep
close for a while longer, gradually giving air.
CURCULIQO— From the general appearance of the foliage one would
suppose that these plants were members of the Palm family instead of
being related to the Amaryllis. The leaves resemble those which are
undivided of Cocos flexuosa. C. recurvata is the only species grown.
The form with variegated leaves is one of our handsomest variegated
plants. During growth they require stove temperature for their perfect
development. They stand in a dwelling house fairly well. Propagation
is by division. Almost any kind of soil will answer; but as the plants
need large quantities of water the drainage should be perfect.
CYCAS — Cycas revoluta stems are often spoiled as a result of the
treatment they get in the way of potting immediately after being im-
ported. Having few or no roots they should not be placed in large
receptacles, as the soil when once watered takes too long a time to drj
out, and is apt to become sour, which is anything but a favorable con-
dition to tempt the growth of fresh roots. Put the stems into as small
pots as they will go, leaving just enough space to ram the soil tightlj-
around them with a thin piece of wood. They will start into growth
best when in a warm, moist house, and require little water until they
show signs of sending up a crop of leaves. Plants of this class make
their annual crop of leaves, not one after the other, as is the case with
Palms, but simultaneously, and at this period they require close watch-
ing, so that the foliage may be prevented from being deformed in any
way from insect attacks, cold drafts, or coming in contact with other
things duping development. The temperature should be higher at this
period than at any other. When roots are formed and a sufficient time
has elapsed after the development of the fronds, the plants may be given
