STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 31
larger pots. A minimum temperature of 50 degrees will suffice during
Winter.
CYCLAMEN— Cyclamen seeds, to insure even germinating, should be
sown as soon as convenient after ripening. The seeds ripen from April
to June. The sowing season is from September to the beginning of
December, and the seeds, between the harvesting and sowing periods,
should be kept in an open-mouthed bottle, mixed with dry sand. Al-
though the seed may be held for years it loses in vitality the longer it is
kept. The best flowered Cyclamens are varieties of C. persicum. Several
named varieties are offered by the large dealers, but when once a satis-
factory strain is secured the best plan is to set aside a few plants of each
color, and by artificial pollination each flower will ripen a capsule of
seed. To have plants in bloom by Christmas the seedlings will consume
from 12 to 14 months in completing their growth, and during that
period they should never be allowed to rest by withholding water, or
be subjected to other conditions unfavorable to -continuous growth.
The seed should be sown in shallow pans or boxes, in light sandy soil,
and covered to very little more than their own depth with finely sifted
soil and sphagnum, two parts of the former to one of the latter. The
swollen root-stock is formed before the first leaf makes its appearance,
and when the first leaf is fully developed the seedlings are ready for
pricking off. During this process a minimum temperature of 55 degrees
will be sufficient. The seedlings may be put directly into thumb pots,
pricked off around the sides of 4 or 5-inch pots, or Into shallow boxes,
keeping them at all times near the light, and in as uniform a state of
moisture at the roots as possible. By the middle of May those in the
most advanced stages of growth should be in 4-inch pots. At this time
they should get the full light from the north side of a house, the plants
being placed on inverted pots, and as near the glass as possible. The
glass on the south side should be shaded. For Summer quarters frames
are the best. The bottom should have a few inches of ashes to retain
moisture. The sash may be raised a few inches above the woodwork
by running pieces of wood along top and bottom. The best shading
device is probably a piece of cloth fixed to a roller, so that it may easily
be stretched over the glass during the hottest part of the day, or the
glass may be covered with one of the shading mixtures. Heavy rains
should not strike the plants, but they will be benefited by removing the
sash in the evenings, replacing them as the temperature gets too warm
the following morning. Greenfly, the cyclamens greatest insect enemy,
may be removed by periodical syringings, or by scattering tobacco
stems among the pots. The plants should be repotted when necessary,
the very latest ones getting their last transfer about the 1st of Novem-
ber, the earliest plants at least a month sooner. Well-developed speci-
mens should easily fill an 8-inch pan. The soil should consist of loam
mixed with lesser quantities of old manure and leaf mould; a little sand
and crushed charcoal will help to keep the mass in a porous condition.
In potting, the corm, or swollen stem, may be half buried in the soil;
careful drainage is necessary. As soon as there is danger from frost the
plants are removed indoors; and to give good stiff stalks to the flowers
