82 STOVE AM) GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
full light and an abundance of air should be afforded on all favorable
occasions.
C^TISUS in one or two forms is mainly grown as a midspring
flowering plant. Cuttings are rooted in February. The young plants
may be grown on in frames. Frequent syringings are necessary to com-
bat the attack of red spider. Pinch back the strong growths as soon as
they show a tendency to outgrow the others. Keep cool during Autumn
and the early Winter months.
DALECHAMPIA ROEZLIANA belongs to the same family as the Poin-
eettia, and, like it, grown solely on account of its bracts, which are rose
colored. It is a warm house plant, but may be plunged outside in Sum-
mer to make abundant growth.
DESnODlUn QYRANS— A plant of little beauty, but very interesting
because of the movements of its lateral leaflets, which are continuous in
a suitable temperature. Propagated by seeds or cuttings in a warm
house.
DRAC/ENA— D. GodsefRana is a plant of recent introduction; the
leaves are short, somewhat resembling in shape and coloring those of the
old D. phrynioides. D. Godseffiana, however, has the markings lighter.
When planted out in Summer, and well supplied with water, it makes
considerable growth. Every small twig may be rooted. Perhaps the
best use to which it may be put is in association with small ferns in
pans.
Dracaena Sanderiana 1 ^m afraid will never occupy a very important
place among decorative plants, because single plants do not make much
of a show in 5 or 6-inch pots. On account of its variegated foliage and
slender habit it can be used among ferns and mosses for jardiniere work.
Pieces of the stem with two or three leaves attached root quickly with
bottom heat. If wanted for filling pots above 5 inches, three or four
must be potted together.
D. Qoldieana is a handsome stove plant with short, broad leaves,
irregularly marbled with dark green and dull white. Tops may be
rooted and the canes left to sprout; or they may be cut up, sprouted
and rooted, as in the case of Cordyline terminalis.
D. fragrans, the most useful of the genus, grows 12 feet high, but
small specimens are well furnished with leaves. The plants will stand
much rough usage.
D. Lindenii and D. Massangeana are variegated forms. In propagat-
ing, when the stems have leaves, cut into lengths with a leaf or two to
each, and root like ordinary cuttings. These make stock plants. Long
leafless stems should be cut into lengths of about a foot and buried in
warm sand and moss. They sprout freely; the sprouts should be taken
off and rooted afresh before potting. The plants need slight shade in
Summer. All three require abundant root room and well enriched
porous soil, otherwise they will show a sickly yellow hue on the leaves.
