34 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
DROSERA BINATA, the finest of all the Sundews, a native of Austra-
lia, j^rowiug about 1 foot in height, will succeed in a cool greenhouse.
Give soil same as recommended for Nepenthes, covering with live moss.
This is an exceedingly attractive plant for private greenhouses. In early
Spring the leaves catch myriads of male greenfly; and the plant may
be regarded as a friend of the horticulturist.
DICHORIZANDRA THYRSIFLORA— Of the Tradescantia family, and
usually grown as a stove plant. In this capacity, unless given abun-
dant root room, the flowers are not produced in abundance. South of
Philadelphia it may be used as a choice subject for the open border in
Summer. The flowers, of a rich dark blue and the stamens yellow, are
borne on the upright shoots of the current years growth, which Is about
2 feet in height. The flowering shoots maj- be cut in pieces, with a
single leaf to each if necessary, and rooted in the hot propagating bed.
They may be kept in a semi-dormant state during the Winter, as the
plants will form thick tuber-like roots.
DIEFFENBACHIAS— Some of the old plants of these ornamental aroids
will, b3^ the end of Summer, have grown lanky, bending over the pots,
with only a few leaves terminating the stem. Take the tops off and put
them in the sand bed; lay the stems aside in a warm, airy place to dry
for three or four days, then cut them into lengths of about 2 inches.
Lay these aside to dry for a similar period, first rolling them in pow-
dered charcoal to lessen the danger of decay. Put in a box of nearly
dry sand, cover over about an inch and stand on the floor of a warm
house. When a few small leaves have been made to each sprout, pot in
a mixture containing at least one-third of its bulk of chopped sphagnum
moss; keep warm and moist. The tops, as soon as fairly well rooted,
should be potted, not in ordinary soil, but in a mixture of chopped
sphagnum, manure, leaf mould and sand. In this mixture the roots
fairly revel, provided a strong moist heat is given. In potting Dleffen-
bachias put them into as small pots as possible, and when a shift is
necessary they may be placed three together in a pot, making a well
furnished appearance in a comparatively short time. D. Baraquiniana,
Jenmanii, Veitchii, Bausei and grandis are among the best. They wont
stand much rough usage, being somewhat soft in the foliage; they are,
however, easily got up in quantity.
ECHEVERIA (COTYLEDON) GIBBIFLORA riETALLICA takes a promi-
nent place among serviceable flowering plants during January and Feb-
ruary. It is one which is attractive either in or out of bloom, and its
cultivation is unattended by any serious difficulties. When done bloom-
ing, which will be in a short time, its propagation may be gone about
as follows: Takeoff the top of the main growth with as much stem
attached as will enable it, when rooted, to go 2 or 3 inches into the soil;
to root them, take as many 4-inch pots as there are tops, stand them
on the bench, put a little moss in the bottoms, and then place a cutting
in each; this will cause the cut part to callus over without the danger
of rotting. In a short time the stems will give out hair-like rootd, and
when these are from one-half to three quarters of an inch long, the cut-
tings may be potted, using soil on the dry side, and kept rather dry
