STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 33
until the plants have made roots enough to demand water. On the old
stumps rosettes of leaves will form, which in time may be taken off and
potted. I
EICHORNEA— The Water hyacinth, Eichorneacrassipesmay be utilized
as amost attractive tub plant in the following manner: Put, say three
plants, in as many 5-inch pots of rich soil; fill a tub with water and sink
the pots just under the surface. Beyond wanting water to replace that lost
by evaporation they will take care of themselves; the surface will be-
come a thick mass of plants, with fresh flowers opening every morning.
Although this plant floats on water naturally, without the roots being
fixed in soil, it also flourishes in saturated ground at a surprising rate,
keeps a fresh, green appearance, and produces myr^^s of flowers; it is
well worth a trial for unsightly marshy spots.
Eichornea azurea is an interesting relative of the above, with darker
colored flowers. It is useful for planting around the margins of ponds,
covering quite a large water surface during a Summers growth. Both
species are easily kept over Winter by placing a few on the surface of a
warm tank. They increase very rapidly during early Spring.
EPIPHYLLUMS— Epiphvllums are usually grown as standards; that
Is, grafted on tbe stems of o cher plants. Tuis method is necessary because
thehrancbes have a procumbent habit when the plants areontheirowu
roots. Rooted cuttings may begrowa to a fair size and used in baskets
or other hanging receptacles. The species, three in number, and the
numerous varieties make very handsome WMnter-flowering plants. Their
cultivation is simple. The stocks for grafting are usually Pereskia
aculeata and P. Bleo. The latter is the more robust grower, and there-
fore most suitable for tall specimens, P. aculeata being used for dwarf
ones. Cuttings of the Pereskias, which, of course, belong to the Cactus
tribe, may be rooted any time after the wood is fairly ripe. They may
be put in a dry and warm part of the propagating bed, and given water
only after they show signs of sending out roots. To graft, select stock
in which the wood is sufficiently firm; cut off the top part, make a cut
down the center for three-quarters of an inch or so, then insert a piece of
the ripened growth of the Epiphyllum, and run one of the Pereskia spines
through the whole to keep it firmly together, or tie with raffia until th6
union is completed. This will be effected in a few weeks in a good
growing temperature. Have the Pereskias in as small pots as possible
at the time of grafting, so that when the union between stock and cion
takes place the plants will start growing quickly by being shifted into
larger pots. The potting mixture should be very porous, as the least
stagnation is fatal to the roots. Sandy loam, broken brick, old manure
and a little leaf soil will be found best.
ERANTHEMUn PULCHELLUM produces one of our brightest blue
flowers. It is at its best in the greenhouse during late Winter. Put in
cuttings during early Spring; plant in the open border as soon as
weather permits, lift and pot in the Fall. Splendid specimens may thus
be secured for winter bloom.
