STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 37
ERICAS— Several years ago the growing of these plants in this coun-
try for commercial purposes was regarded as an impossibility, even by
those who were familiar with their culture in Europe. But noTv, some
of the kinds are grown here as well as anywhere, simply by studying their
needs, and carefully attending to their wants. Propagation of the sev-
eral varieties may be effected during April before the active growth of
the season gets too far advanced. Have no undesirable vegetable
humus or mud in the sand. Secure a good-sized bucket, fill v^ith sand
and push the end of the hose to the bottom, allowing the water to run
with considerable force for a few minutes. This will clean the sand of
all impurities. Pans or pots for the cuttings should have perfect drain-
age to within two or three inches from the surface; give about an inch
ol peat or leaf mould and sand at the bottom, covering with an inch or
so of sand, which should be made firm. Keep close under glass while
rooting at a temperature never above 60 degrees F. During the Sum-
mer months keep the roots cool by plunging the plants in some porous
material, never allowing them to get too wet or too dry. It may be
stated here that roots of plants are divided into four classes — nutritive,
attachment, contractile and storage. In the Ericas the nutritive roots
are most abundant next the flower pot, so that an equable condition of
moistureisnecessary to their existence. Avoid manure of any description.
E. persoluta, E. melanthera, E. gracilis and E. hyemalis, are a few of
the very many kinds grown.
ERYTHRINAS which are planted out in the back part of a cool frame
adjoinim; a greenhouses, for the sake of their flowers in Summer, should
get a mulching of stable litter to keep their roots snug for the
Winter. In the colder parts of the country the covering should extend a
foot or more up the stems, so that there will be no danger from freezing.
In pruning leave as much of the stem as possible, only cutting off enough
to enable the sash to slide into place. E. crista-galli and the variety E.
laurifolia, together with E. Hendersoni, are the best for this purpose.
Old plants which have been bedded out for the Summer will Winter all
right beneath a bench, in a cold house, with some soil thrown over the
roots. E. Parcelli and E. marmorata, both varieties of Indica, have
variegated foliage.
Propagation— By the beginning of February start some of the old
plants of E. crista-galli, or any of its forms; they are far the best for
Summer work. If not in pots the old stumps may simply be covered
over at the roots with moss and given a minimum temperature of 55
degrees. Syringe occasionally to encourage growths for cuttings. As
soon as these growths are in the neighborhood of 4 inches in length take
them off with a heel, put in 2-inch pots, using a sandy mixture, and
keep them confined in a warm propagating case until they root; shift
into larger pots and gradually harden off.
EUPATORIUn PROBUn is the name of a species of this popular Winter
flowering genus which we do not see much of, and which may be grown
to come in after the well-known Stevia serrata goes out of flower. The
flower heads are as large as those of S. elegans. The only drawback to
