88 STOVE AX I) GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
its use aB a cut flower is the clammy or viscid nature of the stems
and leaves. The plant is said to be a native of Peru ; it was introduced
nearly thirty years ago, but has never become popular, supposedly from
its being confined to European gardens ever since. Two desirable Win-
ter bloomers with dark lilac or purple flowers, are known as E. ianthi-
uum and E. macrophyllum. They are of little service for cutting from.
Plant out in late Spring after they are done flowering. This will give
good material for cuttings in September. E. macrophyllum is the
stronger of the two. Cuttings grown on in a warm, sunny house will
fill r-inch pots by the first of March, and have very large panicles of
flowers.
EUPHORBIA (POINSETTIA) PULCHERRIMA — Poinsettias are gro?n
not on account of the flowers, which are small and inconspicuous, bat
for the highly colored bracts which surround them. The flowers are
produced in midwinter. Both for cutting and as pot plants Poinsettias
are highly popular. There are three kinds in cultivation— E. pulcher-
rima, w hich is most commonly grown; E. p. plenissima, having a larger
number of bracts, and E. p. alba, with creamy white bracts. The kinds
are propagated in two ways, from dormant wood and from green cut-
tings. In employing the former method the old plants, after the flowers
have been cut, or in the case of pot plants, after the flowers have de-
cayed, the stems should be allowed to ripen thoroughly^ by gradually
withholding water and subsequently placing them beneath the stage of
a warm house; while there they should be kept free from moisture at
the roots. During March the canes which can be spared should be taken
off and cut into lengths of about 4 inches. After the milkj sap has
stopped exuding from the lower part of the cuttings, they should be
washed in warm water and dipped in powdered charcoal previous to
being placed in the warm propagating bed. While rooting the sand
should be kept on the dry side, only giving enough water so that the
roots will obtain suflicient nourishment. Instead of being allowed to
make long, spindling roots in the sand they should be potted in thumb
pots immediately the roots appear. Put a small quantity of rough
screenings in the bottom of each pot, and have the soil (loam and sand
in equal parts is best) in a fairly moist condition, so that a very slight
sprinkling through a fine rose will suffice for the first few days. When
green cuttings are preferred the plants may be started into growth after
the end of April. Shake the soil from the roots and repot in rather small
pots. In removing the old soil it will be found that the nutritive roots
are decayed and only the storage roots remain. On coming into con-
tact with moist soil these storage roots speedily send out feeding roots,
followed by the expansion of the dormant buds on the canes. When the
growths are a few inches long they may be taken off with a heel, potted
singly and put in a close frame; or simply rooted in the sand bed and
potted when roots are formed. If kept growing without a check plants
from green cuttings will give the largest heads of bracts. Batches of
cuttings may be put in at intervals during the Summer. When well
started in pots all the plants may be placed in a sheltered position out-
of-doors, but in the full sun. When the pots in which they are to bloom
get full of roots clear liquid manure may be given with good effect.
