STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 39
Plants rooted during midsummer from green cuttings may be grown on
benches, much in the same way as single-stemmed Chrysanthemums are
grown. Before the approach of cool weather all the plants should be
removed indoors, as they will lose their leaves on being subjected to
low temperatures. The wilting of the flowers of Poinsettias, or rather
of the gaudy colored bracts which surround the flowers, is due to the
milky sap secreted from the cut part. This hardens to a greater or less
extent, and clogs up the vessels through which the water should ascend
to keep the flowers and foliage fresh. A good way to circumvent this
is as follows: Some little time after the stems have been cut and a
goodly quantity of the milky sap has run out, cut off a small piece from
the end of the stem and stand the cut ends in warm water for a few
minutes. This will leave the cut part free to absorb all the water neces-
sary for their support. Blooms which have been drooping for a consid-
erable time may be revived in the same way.
Euphorbia fulgens (better known as E. jacquiniseflora) is less
easy to manage than the Poinsettia. A start should be made with soft
cuttings, with a heel or piece of the old wood attached. They should
be put in the open propagating bed instead of a frame, as their leaves
are very liable to decay, owing to the dampness. Place in 2-inch pots
and gradually shift on, keeping the plants in the full sun. Too much
water at the root should be guarded against. After midsummer the
plants may be plunged in an open frame to ripen their growth, and
removed indoors before the weather shows signs of getting cool.
EURYA LATIFOLIA VARIEGATA— Put in cuttings of this about the
same time as given for Azaleas. It is a plant very useful for decorating
and one which we see too little of. Give the same treatment in Summer
as recommended for Araucarias.
EXACUM AFFINE is the name of a compact bushy Gentian-wort,
which gives a very good account of itself for Winter flowering in a mod-
erately warm house. The flowers are bluish purple with yellow stamens
protuding from the center of the flower. It doesnt have the provoking
habit of some of the Gentians in closing its flowers during the latter
part of the day. Seed sown beginning of July will make fine plants by
the Fall. As soon as the seedlings are large enough they may be plunged
in a frame, where they will need but little attention, as they do not suffer
from an occasional drying out.
FICUS ELASTICA is one of the most popular house plants, and one of
the most suitable for this purpose. The leaves are large and leathery
and not easily hurt through occasional neglect. Complaints are some-
times made of plants losing their lower leaves; in old plants this is
natural, as evergreen plants have their season of leaf shedding. Young
plants will lose leaves through insuflicient or too much moisture or lack
of nourishment.
Mossing Out-of-Doors— Between old stocks of rubbers planted outside
and those kept in pots there is quite a difference in the quality of growth.
Those given unlimited root room in the open lot have a somewhat suc-
culent growth with the leaves far apart, and altogether not in the best
