40 STOVE AXD GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
condition for purposes of propagation. These may merely be notched
below everj second leaf previous to inserting in the sand bed later on.
Plants growing in pots or tubs have much firmer growth, well ripened,
with the leaves quite close together; very suitable for providing
tops which may be rooted in large pieces and make salable plants in a
short time. To go about this operation successfully make preparations
during the first half of August by tying the growths to supports. Those
which answer the purpose best are pieces of wire stakes tied along the
stem, then at the point where it is desired to root the pieces remove just
enough of the leaves and make an incision in the stem upward toward
the growing point. Insert a little sphagnum moss, wait a day or so,
remove the moss; bathe with warm water to remove the congealed sap,
which, if left, will hinder a complete callusing of the cut part. Insert
fresh moss and tie a handful over the incision; keep moist until the roots
are showing through. The pieces should then be cut off, put in small
pots and placed in a close stucture for a few days until the roots begin
to take with the soil. Syringe only during that period. This is a very
important point. After potting either mossed shoots or cuttings (if
the soil is in a good working condition; that is, neither too wet nor dry)
absolutely no water should be given for a day or two; the atmosphere
kept moist, and an occasional syringing will be all that is necessary.
House=Qrown Plants— Rubber plants which are grown all Summer in
a house in a moist, high temperature, have a very different appear-
ance from those which are grown out-of-doors in the full sun, and the
difference is by no means in favor of the house-grown stock. The
leaves are naturally weaker, without the well-developed appearance of
the outdoor grown plants, and if the root conditions of the outside
plants are perfect, with a good mulch over the sunken pots, the growth
will be every bit as rapid in young plants, if not more so, with the
addition of a constitution which enables them to stand a whole Winter
in a dwelling house without injury. The variegated rubbers are indoor
plants, as they are apt to get scorched by the suns rays unless given a
partially shaded situation. For keeping stock plants of these varie-
gated varieties it will be found a good plan to have them in rather
small pots and encourage roots from the stems, especially from
those of old plants. These stem roots, when they get among a
mixture of manure and moss, or even among wet gravel, make as-
tonishing growti:, causing the plants to give an abundant supply of
material for cuttings, which they are otherwise slow to do when grown
in the ordinary way. Cuttings notched for a few weeks, taken off and
placed in sand with a brisk bottom heat, root quickly. Eubber plants
will keep in a dormant state even in a high temperature, with abundant
humidity in the atmosphere, by being kept dry at the roots.
Indoor Rubbers for Stock Plants— Reserve a place at the end
of a warm house for large over-grown plants. They make quicker
growth indoors during the warm months than they do outside, and for
the purposes of single-eye cuttings, the wood is preferable, as the spaces
between the leaves are longer. They should be planted in a solid bed.
If the old soil be unsuitable remove it to a depth of about 18 inches;
put some broken brick, clinkers or stones in the bottom for drainage,
