STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 41
some old leaves on top of this, and fill up with rich porous soil. Plant
moderately close together, pruning back those which require it; with a
few good stock plants a plentiful supply of growth for cuttings, or for
mossing, will be the result. The rubber when well grown can always
be depended upon as a ready selling plant.
Cuttings root poorly sometimes, and there are several causes. Single-
eye pieces are dibbled in an open bed with the leaf pierced by a stick to
keep it in an upright condition. During the process of rooting the cut-
ting is nourished to a large extent by the moisture taken in by the under
part of the leaf; that is, Avhen it lies flat on the sand, which it should
do. They will in this position root quicker and better. Another cause
of frequent failure is in taking the cuttings at the wrong time. The
plants have a period of rest and a period of growth. When a shoot is
in the process of developing a leaf rooting should not be attempted;
better wait till every part is ripened, then rooting is an easy matter.
In potting off do not allow the roots to get beyond an inch in length
while in the bed. They sustain injury easily when coming in contact
with anything. In lifting from the bed place the cuttings in a box with
the rooted ends resting on one side of the box, and not too many of
them together. Use soil of the same temperature as the sand. Two-
thirds loam and one-third sand is a good medium to start with; 3-inch
pots bhould be used. A shift will be necessary within three weeks.
Slow Rooting Species of Ficus, and there are several of them in
common use for sub-tropical bedding in Summer, will be resting by
the end of January unless they are kept in a very warm house;
and in this condition ringing and mossing, as the best means of
increasing the number, had better be attended to. Those w-hich
are slow in taking root in the cutting bed, but quick to respond to
the ringing process, are as follows: F. dealbata. F. Porteana, F.
nymphaefolia, F. macrophylla, F. ferruginea and F. eburnea. While
on the subject of Rubbers I may mention that for covering damp
walls in greenhouses for ornamental effect Ficus repens has been em-
ployed for a long time, but there is a species, new to me, which is a bet-
ter one for the purpose, judging by what 1 have seen of it. It is named
Ficus falcata, and is well termed, as the leaves resemble nothing so much
as a short knife blade. The plant grows very fast, has very dark green
tohage and sticks close to the substance against which it is placed. A
good way to start young plants climbing, so that they may be easily
transferred to permanent positions, is to fix the end of a piece of board
inside of a pot, allowing a space above the pot 6 inches broad and 12
mches long; then pot the young plants close against the wood.
FUCHSIA— Old plants of Fuchsias should be started by the middle of
December to provide wood for cuttings. The plants should be knocked
out of their flowering pots, the balls reduced and given fresh soil. Place
them in heat and syringe freely. The growths for cuttings will start
almost immediately. Do not take growths for cuttings which have
beeo on the plants all Winter, as the wood is bound to be a trifle hard
and does not turn out the best plants; better wait till the growths are
tender enough. Even young growth, with the wood on the hard side.
