42 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
does not make good cuttings. These should be taken off during the
period of fairly rapid growth and kept growing, or they will be
apt to remain stunted and come into flower before the plant is fully
developed. Fuchsias will bloom in :Mnch pots, but by keeping them in
a growing state, with abundant root room, they can easily be grown,
according to the variety, from 2V2 to 4 feet in height, before the flower
buds make their appearance. If wanted to bloom in 5-inch pots, pinch
back the leading shoots, and when the pot is well filled with roots give
weak liquid manure frequently. This will prolong their blooming sea-
son. A single supporting stick for the main stem will be all that is
necessary, with perhaps a few supporting strings for the lateral shoots
in the case of those varieties having large double flowers.
FURCR.CA— A genus of plants closely allied to the Agaves. They
thrive with a little more heat than is usually given Century Plants,
otherwise their cultivation is pretty nearly the same. There are about
ten species in cultivation; those most commonly seen are F. cubensis,
F. gigantea and F. longgeva. The varigated form of F. gigantea is an
exceedingly handsome subject.
GARDENIAS— These are only grown nowadays in general collections
of plants. In Summer young plants will make good growth by being
plunged among some porous material in a frame. Cuttings are taken
from rioe erowths. Plants will thrive in a warm, sunny greenhouse.
(See Supplement to Third Edition, page 302.)
3L0XINIAS— So easily do the leaves of the Gloxinia produce tubers,
when properly manipulated, that it seems a roundabout way to get up
a supply of plants from seeds. The only drawback to the first-named
method, is that leaves are not always available in sufficient quantities
for propagating purposes. When plants are wanted in bloom before
midsummer, the seed should be sown in early Spring. The process of
raising seedlings is simple enough, if given the necessary attention ; a
little neglect, however, when in the younger stages of their growth, is
very apt to occur, and that is the end of them. The seedlings are very
fragile for some time after germinating, and if the soil gets a trifle too
wet, or too dry, they suffer beyond repair. In preparing boxes or pans
for seed, let the soil be very porous and light, leaf mould largely predomi-
nating. Make very firm; give a watering, then sow; and if a covering
be given it should be of the lightest possible nature. If the atmosphere
gets at all dry, cover the receptacles with panes of glass, to prevent dry-
ing. If care be taken the seedlings may be allowed to grow until large
enough to be potted off singly in 2-inch pots, or they may be pricked off
thickly into boxes previous to potting off. For flowering late in Sum-
mer or early in Fall, sowings may be made as late as the beginning of
July. In propagating from the leaves, various methods are employed.
The one most commonly in use is to take the entire leaf, make incisions
in the under parts of the principal veins (or they may be cut through);
lay the leaves flat on the sand with the stalk buried, and give only
enough water to prevent drying up. Small tubers will form at the inci-
sions and at the end of the stalk. During this process no leaves are
formed, and the tubers should be harvested and rested for the Winter in
