STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 43
dry sand. This operation i^ best performed after midsummer. Another
good method to get up stock of extra fine varieties from leaves, is to
cut them in sections resembling the letter V, the lower part to consist of
at least an inch of the midrib, and the leaf cut obliquely to the margin.
Treat them similarly to the triangular-shaped cuttings of the Rex Bego-
nias, so far as potting them in the sand goes; but keep on the dry side
vehile forming tubers. Smaller tubers are made by this method than if
the leaves were laid flat on the sand; consequently it should only be
used when it is desired to make the most of extra good kinds. Old
tubers are successfully wintered over in the pots in which they have
flowered ; or, to save room, they may be taken from the pots, the soil
removed, and stored in boxes of dry sand, keeping in a minimum temper-
ature of 60 degrees. In starting, bring to the light and give water, pot-
ting up when about an inch of growth has been made.
Diseases— The plants are liable to the attacks of a disease concerning
which little appears to be known. It first shows itself in the leaves,
small brownish spots appearing, as if the foliage had been burned by the
sun. The diseased surfaces gradually enlarge until the health of the
plant suffers to such an extent as to stop the growth of the flower buds.
Probably careless watering at the roots has something to do with the
trouble. Each plant should be examined at least once a day, because
the broad leaves lying over the surface of the soil are apt to hide a very
dry ball; and if the plants go without water for any length of time
when dry their usefulness is ended.
Soil— The Gloxinia is fond of leaf soil, and it may be used to the extent
of one-half the balk, loam, sand and cow manuremaking up the balance.
They are not deep-rooting plants. Large seed pans should be provided
for the full-sized tubers. In saving seeds the capsules should be carefully
watchpd else the se-ds will be lost. Up to the time of bursting the
seed vessels are green; they split down the middle, suddenly exposing
the seeds, which are easily displaced.
GREVILLEA ROBUST A— This would be a popular plant were It not
that its general appearance is suggestive of the rag- weed. It is a first-
class house plant, and one very easy to get up. Seeds are sown in
March. Pot singly when quite small, and when in 3-inch pots plunge in
a frame until large enough for .5-inch pots. The plants will stand the
full sun. A cool greenhouse will suit them in Winter.
HAriELIA PATENS — A tender shrub very well suited for growing in
tubs. When the plants are in good health they are covered with flowers
during the greater part of Summer. Propagated from ripe wood in
early Spring.
HEDYCHlUn — These have long been grown in conservatories, where
plenty of room is at command. In small conservatories they are not
desirable. H. coronarium has pure white, sweet-smelling flowers. H.
Gardnerianum and its hybrid form are useful for planting near the mar-
gins of ponds, wh^re their roots get an abundant water supply. They
may be rested under a bench during Winter.
