STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 45
HEERIA ROSEA and H. ALBA are easily inauaged greenhouse plants.
They may be depended upon to give a liberal supply of bloom in Win-
ter and Spring if they get anything like fair treatment. They are propa-
gated by cuttings taken from soft wood in the Fall.
HIBISCUS— The varieties of H. rosa-sinensis make first-class tub
plants. When thus cultivated they need liberal feeding, being robust
growers; and as the flowers are produced on the young wood there has
to bean abundant supply of this to have them looking at their best.
With the help of liquid manure bushes will thrive in the same tubs for
years. Autumn-struck cuttings, if grown on during Winter, will give 6-
inch pot plants by Spring. The varieties known as H. brilliantissimum
and H. graudiflorus are the best singles among the crimson varieties.
There are double reds, yellows and pinks; among the latter is Peach
Blossom. It has exceedingly attractive flowers; the name describes
the color of the flower well. The plant blooms in a small state. All
of the kinds delight in a soil having a fair proportion of leaf mould.
A quantity of crushed bone may be added when the plants have to
occupy the pots or tubs for any length of time. The varieties of H.
rosa-sinensis should be given a trial out-of-doors; they grow^ and
flower very luxuriantlv. They may be kept during Winter in a struc-
ture from which frost is excluded. In a low temperature, and kept dry
at the roots, they are deciduous.
HYDRANGEAS FOR POTS— Hydrangea hortensis and its varieties may
be propagated either in Spring or Fall. When the work is done in
Spring the cuttings must be taken from plants which are being forced in
the greenhouse, the wood of which is iu excellent trim for the produc-
tion of strong, healthy roots. Those shoots which show no signs of
blooming are the ones to be taken for propagation. The cuttings root
very readily if given a syringing overhead two or three times daily.
Pot in 3-inch pots and plant out from these about the middle of May.
Or the plants may be potted into 5-iuch pots and plunged in well-rotted
stable manure. They are, however, easier looked after in the fleld, and
there make plants every bit as good. Moreover, when lifted and potted
they can be given fresh soil, which will suit them when taken in to force
in the beginning of the year; whereas those in pots may not require
shifting, so far as their size is concerned, and yet be benefited by fresh
soil. Where Hydrangeas will stand the Winter some of each kind should
be planted out permanently, so as to give an abundant supply of mate-
rial for cuttings. These cuttings should be taken during the Autumn
months, encouraged to fill their pots with roots, and then go to rest.
When given a shift from 3-inch into 5-inch pots, and brought gradually
into warmth, they develop very large heads of bloom, and toward the
latter part of their development liquid manure is necessary.
Forcing— To have the forms of Hydrangea hortensis in bloom early
those plants which have been kept cool will by the middle of January
have lost their foliage, but if any remain cut it off to within a short dis-
tance of the stem. The plants, whether in 4, 5, or 6-inch pots, which
show that an increased size may be given, will stand the operation bet-
ter if the roots are disturbed as little as possible. The same size, or
