4u$ STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS,
those larger, which cannot be shifted and the ball preserved intact, are
best reduced when the soil is somewhat dry. Put in a cool house after
pottiug, watering onl3 to settle the soil; and syringe in order to start
into growth. After a start has been made the heat and watering may
be increased, and as the growth increases, weak manure water may be
given frequently.
iriANTOPHYLLUM— An indispensable plant for private collections;
grows best in a cool greenhouse. Large plants need shifting only at
long intervals, and for this reason the soil should have a good sprink-
ling of crushed bone and charcoal. Increased by division. I. miniatum
and its forms are the finest.
INQA PULCHERRIMA — For flowering in a cool greenhouse during
March and April, but only in roomy structures, there are few things to
surpass this in the brilliancy of the flowers. These are arranged in heads
with an enormous number of stamens, which are the principal attrac-
tion. Take cuttings in February.
IXORAS— This is hardly a genus for the florist to deal with, as the
plants take more care than the prices obtained for them would permit.
There are numerous species and varieties, all of wbich are attractive
when well done. In the latitude of Washington, D, C, they make
growth best when plunged outside, and some of them flower profusely
out-of-doors. I. Colei is a goorl white; I. Williamsii, 1. coccinea, I. Chel-
sonii and I. picturata are all very reliable species. They will thrive in
the warmest house during Winter. Peat, sand, and a little loam will
make a suitable soil. Cuttings should be put in during March.
JASMINUM GRANDIFLORUM— Although there are other meritorious
species, this is the one usually grown. Plant out the young stock in
May, and by the end of September they should be lifted and potted.
Keep in an intermediate house. The plants will stand full sunshine.
JUSTICIA (SCHAUERIA) CALYTRICHA— One of the best Winter flower-
ing species, producing yellow flowers in large heads. Cut back after
blooming to encourage growth for propagation. Keep the young
plants in the greenhouse during Summer, as they are not of a robust,
growing nature.
J. (Jacobinia) carnea and J. rosea — Cuttings of these should be put
in at the end of January ; they root in a few days. The young plants
should then be grown on and used for Summer flowering in the green-
house. Almost any porous soil will suit them.
LIBONIA PENRHOSIENSIS is a charming Winter flowering, dwarf
evergreen shrub. Its culture is of the easiest description, and almost
any soil will suit the plant. Put cuttings in the warm propagating bed
during the latter part of February; plant out middle of May to make
growth; lift middle of September and flower in a moderately warm
greenhouse.
LOPEZIA RACEnOSA (Mosquito Plant) makes an exceedingly weedy-
growth outside in Summer. Cuttings put in the beginning of Septem-
