STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 47
ber, and the plants kept in a sunny greenhouse with a minimum tem-
perature of 45 degrees, will give an amazing supply of bloom all Winter.
This plant is desirable only for private colllections.
MAHERNIA QLABRATA— A dense-growing, dwarf evergreen shrub,
with small yellow flowers product-d in Winter. The flowers have
an odor much resembling that of the violet. The cuttings should be
made large, at least 6 inches in length. They should be taken before
growth begins. The roots are sparingly produced. Put the moted cut-
tings at the sides of the pots, so that they will take easily with the soil.
MALVAVISCUS MOLLIS and M. ARBOREUS are greenhouse plants
which in Winter take up too much room as specimens, and should not
be grown for that purpose, as the flowers are not freely produced. For
outdoor planting they are good subjects, making a large mass of foliage
dotted here and there with bright red flowers. The new M. lanceolatus
from Mexico is the best for Winter flowering. The leaves are different
in shape from those of the two first-named species, and it blooms more
freely. Cuttings of all three root with the treatment given Coleus.
MARANTA— Of this genus M. smaragdina and M. Porteana are the
best. When well grown they are among the most ornamental foliaged
plants in cultivation. For culture see Calathea.
flEDINILLA— This magnificent flowering plant must have a high tem-
perature, and should be in every collection of stove plants. The flowers
are arranged in large, drooping racemes, (-uttings root well when
placed in a pot of loose moss, in a warm frame, or on a well-shaded
bench of a warm house. M. magniflca is the species most commonly
seen.
riETROSIDEROS ROBUSTA and H. SEMPERFLORENS are flowered
from imported plants. The treatment given for Acacias will suit them.
MONSTERA DELICIOSA— There are several excellent house plants
which are very little known, on account of the difflculty experienced in
propagating them in suflicient quantities. Among the best of this class
is the Monstera, a subject almost unique in the vegetable kingdom,
owing to the broad leaves having perforations all over their surfaces.
It needs little pot room, but plenty of water; in fact, the pot may be
placed in a saucer of water. It will continue to throw up leaf after leaf
in a dwelling house just as well as if in a conservatory, the bright emer-
ald green of the young leaves contrasting well with the deeper color of
the older ones. The easiest method of propagation is to cut up the old
stems to single eyes, and place in sand, in a warm house, where the cut-
tings sprout in a few weeks.
MUSA COCCINEA is sometimes grown for its brilliant red bracts. It
is a dwarf species and needs stove temperature. For other species see
Bedding Plants.
nUSS^ENDA FRONDOSA and T\. LUTEOLA are handsome warm green-
house plants, cultivated for their colored bract-like growths.
