48 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
NEPENTHES— These are known as East India Pitcher plants. In
their native habitats they grow as vines. Under cultivation they are
usually seen as dwarf, pot or basket plants. Nepenthes are very suita-
ble for suspending from the roof of a greenhouse, as then the curiously-
sliaped appendages, or jiitchers, attheendsof the leaves are best seen.
Moreover, some of the kinds have long leaves, and when the pitchers are
half filled with licpiid they hang lower than the base of the pot or bas-
ket. In this case the plants must be suspended from the roof. Their
cultivation, with the exception of a few species, is not difficult. There
are between 30 and 40 species, found principally in the East Indian
Islands. The temperature should not fall below 6.5 degrees at any time
of the year, and from this it may rise to 90 degrees with safety. At all
times I prefer growing these plants with as little ventilation as possible,
as under those conditions growth will be more vigorous and a heavier
crop of pitchers will be the result Pruning is a very important matter
in their cultivation. With the possible exception of N. bicalcarata, none
of the kinds should be allowed to grow over a foot high. When a few
pitchers have been formed, or are forming on a shoot, cut the end out;
this will very materially help in the development of those in process of
formation, and will cause new shoots to burst out on which more
pitchers will be borne. The material in which to grow Nepenthes should
consist of fibrous peat and sphagnum in equal parts. Charcoal, crushed
bone and sand in small quantities may be added. During the growing
season the plants must never be .allowed to get dry at the roots. One
and two-year-old specimens are the most satisfactory, although some
of the kinds will keep in good condition as long as they have good
material in which to make fresh roots. Shade during bright sunshine,
and syringe frequently. The sexes are on different plants, and so far as
I have observed all the species and varieties will intercross. Seeds are
sown on a finely prepared surface of chopped moss, covered with glass.
As soon as they can be handled the seedlings are pricked off in small
pots. Cuttings should be taken from the half-ripened shoots about the
beginning of December; they should be cut to single eyes only when a
large number of plants are wanted Terminal growths, short and
stocky, make the finest plants, and in a much shorter time than single-
eye cuttings. In a propagating frame, with a bottom heat of 80 de-
grees, plunge the cuttings in sphagnum; they may be either pushed
through the hole of an inverted thumb pot or put in small pots, using a
rooting medium composed of sphagnum, sand and charcoal. I much
prefer the first method. Many beautifully marked hybrids have been
raised in recent years; these are, as a rule, easiest grown. N. Masters-
iana is one of the best; N. Dominiana, N. Henryana, N. Williamsii, N.
Outramiana, N. Siebrechtii and N. Amesiana are all well worth growing.
NERIUM (OLEANDER)— Much grown as a tub plant, for which it is
well suited. Old plants should be kept as dormant as possible during
the Winter. Cuttings are rooted early in the season, and plunged out-
side when established in pots.
OCHNA MULTIFLORA is an interesting and beautiful cool greenhouse
shrub. The flowers are yellow. The calyx, at first green, changes to a
