STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 49
brilliant red on the ripening of tlie fruit. Propagated by Fall-struck
cuttings.
ORCHIDS— Although there is an immense number of species and forms
of orchids few of them are grown solely for their cut flowers. Most of
them produce flowers but sparingly, and are chiefly grown in private
collections. A large number being hybrids very few of each kind are in
cultivation; only those species and their varieties which are procurable
in large quantities from their native haunts are grown for cutting from.
Under favorable circumstances, and when their wants are understood.
Orchids are as easily grown as any other class of plants. The epiphytal
class has a growing and a resting period. During growth, as a rule,
they need lots of water, and when resting they are kept on the dry side
so as not to start shoots at the expense of the flowers. Shading is
necessary as the sun gets powerful, and a stagnant atmosphere must be
avoided at all times.
Potting material — This is mainly to supply a reservoir for moisture
during the growing period, and should consist of chopped fern roots, at
least six months old before using, live sphagnum, charcoal and broken
pots. If grown in pots or pans these should be filled two-thirds with
crocks, the plant elevated above the rim of the pot, using lumps of the
fern root, pieces of charcoal and finishing off with a thin layer of live
sphagnum. The best time to pot is before the plants start growth.
Calanthe— This is not an epiphyte, but a terrestrial Orchid growing
among soil. It responds very readily to good treatment. As the
demand for Orchid flowers is on the increase this must eventually be-
come a popular genus. It is one of the few which allows of beiug prop-
agated freely. Loam, peat, sphagnum and well-decayed cow manure,
with a little sand added, will form a good mixture. Good drainage is
necessary, as the plants, while growing, need heavy waterings. During
the growing season a high temperature is necessary, lowering it and
curtailing the supply of water when growth is completed. When done
blooming either shake the plants from the soil and stand them in empty
pots, or withhold water from the roots. They should be started in
March. Careful watering is necessary at flrst.
Cattleyas — These are the most popular Orchid flowers at present,
owing to their large size and delicate colorings. C. crispa is in flower
during July and later; C. labiata comes in during November. C. Trianee
and C. Mossise are the most profitable, as they bloom at a season when
there is a demand for the flowers. Of both species there are numerous
varieties. C. Trianse is in season from November to February, C. Mossiie
in May.
Coelogyne cristata — If kept in a healthy condition at the roots this is
a very free bloomer. The potting material should be examined after the
flowers are gone, and if decayed replace with fresh material. In large
specimens this is a tedious operation. A good size for flowering may
go into 10-inch pans. By the beginning of June we place our plants
under the shade of trees for four months, where they develop splendid
growth. Their flowering season is during February and March, and
