50 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
immediately after, the shoots begin to push out. This species is easily
divided. New growths sometimes push out not only from the base of
last years pseudo-bulb, but also from those of the two previous seasons.
Cypripedium, the ladies slippers, are terrestrial and mostly ever-
green (our native species being herbaceous). The evergreen kinds need
copious supplies of water while growing, and even during the resting
season they should not be allowed to get dry. They may be grown
largely in peat and sphagnum. C. insigne, the one most frequently met
with, is best grown cool. It should be kept outdoors during Summer,
and to retard the flowering period may be kept in well-aired frames
until there is danger from frost. C. Spicerianum requires a warm tem-
perature, flowering in early Spring.
Dendrobium nobile is one of the oldest and easiest grown of the den-
drobes. D. formosum giganteum is an evergreen and requires heat. D.
Phalppnopsis is one of the finest for cutting, giving long stems without
injuring the plant.
Laelia anceps makes its growth from April onward. It is an abun-
dant bloomer, but on account of its resemblance to some of the Cattleyas,
and having smaller flowers, it is not so popular. Flowers in November
and December.
Odontoglossum— With the exception of O, citrosmum the species of
this noble genus have a struggle for existence in this latitude. Further
North they succeed better. O. Alexandrse is one of the most popular.
Oncidium varicosum and O. v. Rogersii — Both bear large panicles of
pale yellow flowers. Both are natives of Brazil, blooming during early
Winter.
PALMS — This order furnishes the most important of our decorative
plants. Out of the large number of known species, comparatively few
are in cultivation, and of these a very limited number is grown by the
florist for this special line of work. Those kinds which are raised in
quantity are selected partly because they are easily and quickly grown.
Seeds are obtainable in large quantities, and because the plants are
exceedingly ornamental, and, as a rule, stand rough uaage, to a certain
extent, without showing bad effects. Palms may be divided into two
sections— those with pinnate or feathered leaves and those with palmate
or fan-shaped leaves. Latania, Livistona,ChamgBrops,Rhapis, Corypha,
Licuala and Thrinax are familiar examples of the section having fan-
shaped leaves; while the feather-leaved section is represented by Kentia,
Phoenix, Areca, Arenga, Cocos and Seaforthia. The commercial kinds
are grown in very large quantities by several firms, and so cheaply are
they offered that it does not pay to raise the seedlings in small quanti-
ties. For collections rather lengthy lists of species are offered by several
European seedsmen. The seeds should be covered to about twice their
thickness in sandy soil and kept fairly moist and warm until they ger-
minate. The drainage in the seed pan should be of such a nature that
the roots can be easily removed from it, as very little is gained by pot-
ting in a very young stage. In this section of the country nearly all of
the species make rapid growth out-of-doors during the Summer after
