STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 53
they have reached a certain stage, say in 6-inch pots. They are plunged
in half-decayed stable litter and partly shaded with lath slats. Large-
sized plants will bear the full sun, but not when taken directly from the
greenhouse. When it is desired that plants shall occupy the same pots
for any length of time, very little, if any, vegetable humus should be
among the soil. Crushed bone and a little charcoal will be found bene- .
ficial.
Areca (chrysalidocarpus) lutescens was grown largely as a decora-
tive palm a few years ago, but owing to its tender nature it has been
superseded by the Kentias.
Cocos Weddeliana in a young state is exceedingly ornamental, the
leaf divisions being narrow and close together. It will stand a lower
temperature than is generally given. Small plants are admirably
adapted for the dwelling house.
Kentia (Howea) Belmoreana and K. Forsteriana are two of the best
kinds, either for house plants or decorating. When they reach a desira-
ble size they should be kept on the cool side, as they will then be less
liable to injury when used.
Latania borbonica (Livistona chinensis) is the best known of all the
fan palms. It should be grown under the same conditions all the time,
otherwise some of the leaf stems will be short and others long, making
an unsymmetrical specimen.
Livistona rotundifolia makes a very neat, little specimen plant. The
foliage is of a bright green color. This palm grows best in a warm
house.
L. Jenkensii is not much used as a decorative plant, but it is one of
the most desirable for collections.
Phoenix rupicola has taken the place of the older species. It is the
most graceful of the genus. P. dactylifera bears the date of commerce.
Euterpe edulis, Rhapis flabelliformis, Ceroxylon andicola, Corypha
australis, Cocos plumosa, Seaforthia elegans, Stevensonia grandifolia,
Licuala grandis and Caryota sobolifera are a few of the better known
species grown in collections.
PANDANUS VEITCHII— There are other variegated Screw Pines, but
none approaching this one as a commercial plant. No one will dispute
its right to a place among the best twelve decorative plants; in fact,
most people would put it in a shorter list. As a bedder it stands our
warmest weather without the least shade. As a dwelling-house plant
it has no superior, and as a stove plant, owing to its beautifully striped
leaves, it tends to relieve the dull monotony of green. There are good
and bad forms common in cultivation; those to be avoided have mono-
colored leaves, and leaves with dirty white variegation. The good one
has almost pure white markings. In selecting stock plants take those
which show lateral growths at or near the base of the plant. Large
lateral growths do not make good specimens, but they should be rooted
for subsequent use as stock plants. In rooting it will be found a good
method to put each piece into a pot of sand and plunge In a propagat-
