STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS, 55
ing bed having a brisk bottom heat. The large, succulent and easily
broken roots which the cuttings make, being confined within the pots,
will be nicely preserved by shaking out the sand and replacing it with
soil, or by being shifted into larger pots, as the cuttings will keep many
weeks in the sand after roots are made without injury. Stock plants,
which get too large and have an abundance of grassy side shoots, will
be encouraged to develop those if the young leaves of the main growth
be torn out. Young plants, plunged out-of-doors after the end of
May, should be examined from time to time, as the roots are apt to get
outside the pots; larger-sized pots should then be given and the plants
replunged.
P. utilis is a green-leaved species, forming very handsome plants even
in small pots. It stands well in a dwelling house, but, like P. Veitchii,
must be kept on the dry side during the resting period. P. utilis is raised
from seeds which, if fresh, germinate well. The soil for both kinds should
be porous and enriched with a small quantity of bone meal.
There are several other species, none of them grown largely, being
principally found in collections. P. javanicus variegatus is quite as
handsome as P. Veitchii, but needs more heat in Winter, besides the
hooked spines pointing two ways on each leaf is a feature very much
against it. P. Baptistii is a handsome variegated plant, but too soft
for use outside of a stove. The true P. graminifolius is not of much use
outside of collections.
PARIS DAISIES— For Winter blooming the cuttings should be put in
during late Spring. By the end of July they should get their last pot-
ting for the Summer, be pinched back and plunged, so as to make large
heads for Winter-flowering. These Daisies can be made to pay during
the dull months from the number of flowers which can be cut from
them. They are not so common as they might be, and Daisies in Winter
are very desirable flowers with some people. Large plants are useful
about Easter time. Left-over plants in Spring can be planted out to
furnish cuttings for Fall propagation, to give medium-sized plants in
flower for early Spring sales.
PAULLINIA THALICTRIFOLIA is an elegant plant for clothing the
tops of unsightly tubs in which Palms and other plants are growing,
and also useful for large vases. It stands the sun well. The foliage
somewhat resembles the leaves of Adiantume. Cuttings root best in
September in the warm propagating bed.
PHORMIUM TEN AX and its forms are rather stiff-looking plants, espe-
cially in a young state; older plants furnished with an abundance of
foliage are more attractive. To increase, plant out in very sandy soil in
May and divide in September.
PERESKIAS — These are seldom grown for their value as decorative
subjects. The flowers of several of the species are of a rather pleasing
appearance, but they last only a short time and are not freely produced.
Two of the species, P. aculeata and P. Bleo, are common in cultivation,
and are used chiefly as stocks for the gaudy-flowered Epiphyllums,
which see for treatment.
