STOVE AND GBEENHOUSE PLANTS. 57
PEPEROniAS— Useful little plants with peltate leaves, finely marked
with bands of white between the principal veins. They grow best in a
warm greenhouse with shade. Peperomia Sauudersii is grown either
for filling shallow pans, mixed with other plants, or as specimen plants
for the window. P. maculosa and P. marmorata are also well worth
growing. Propagation is eftVcted at any time of the year by placing
entire leaves, with a piece of stem attached, edgewise in sand.
PHYLLAGATHIS ROTUNDIFOLIA belongs to the same family as the
better known Spha^rogyne latifnlia and Cyanophyllum speetabile
It somewhat resembles the former in general appearance. A few
plants of it given a test, outside during the Summer, In a position
partly shaded from the sun behaved splendidly, and in a position like-
the above, where the surface of the soil is covered with some low-
growing plant, such as Hydrocotyle or Lysimachia, to keep the sun
from the roots, it may become a valuable feature for outdoor decora-
tion. But for indoors, it may be used as a substitute for the more
gaudy-leaved Sphoerogyne, as it succeeds in an atmosphere w^here the
majority of greenhouse plants can be grown. Propagation for small
plants is by the leaf, the petiole of which is inserted in sand, the blade
lying flat on the surface and the ribs severed in several places. From
the cut parts nearest the petiole, numerous small growths are made;
these, when an inch or so high, may be potted. For making speci-
men plants quickly old subjects which have been encouraged to branch
may be cut up, and the pieces inserted in pots in bottom heat. They
send out roots very quickly.
PHYLLANTHUS NIVOSUS and P. ATROPURPUREUS— These are hardly
suitable as florists plants, but for public or private establishments they
should always be grown, as their foliage, in a young state especially,
is most beautifully colored even when grown in the open air during
Summer. In this latitude we plant them out along with other bedding
material; they are exceedingly effective. The old plants are cut back
severely in Autumn, potted and stored in a rather warm house. In
February cuttings of the medium thick wood are taken, and rooted in
strong heat.
PHYLLOT^NIun LINDENII— This plant, which belongs to the Cala-
dium family, should be employed for decorative purposes more than is
the case at present; not only because the foliage differs from the small
number of kinds of plants used for decorative work, but mainly for the
reason that it will stand the rough treatment given to those plants
more so than one would expect. It is a stove plant and one of the most
ornamental. After a goodly number of leaves have been developed in a
warm, moist atmosphere the plants will continue to keep up a presenta-
ble appearance with ordinary greenhouse temperature, and they may
even be used as house plants. The leaves are shaped somewhat like
those of the fancy-leaved Caladiums; the texture is much firmer, the
color is green with white markings along the principal veins. Propaga-
tion is by division. Before repotting put the pieces in a warm sand bed
to encourage fresh roots.
