STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 59
THE PLUnERIAS are a neglected class of plants somehow ; we see
them only in places where a general collection of stove and greenhouse
plants are grown, and yet their flowers are large, showy and sweet
smelling. The stems and foliage have an ornamental character of their
own. They make very rapid growth in Summer, being well suited for
tub culture. The plants should be kept dry during Winter. The leaves
will fall off early, and the pots or tubs in which the plants grow may be
laid on their sides under the bench of a greenhouse. In propagating,
which may be done best during February, the cuttings may be taken
from 6 inches to a foot long; stand them upright or leaning against the
back part of the propagating bench, but not with the bases buried in
the sand. Nor should they be allowed any water for a week or two.
After the cut part is well healed over they may be potted in almost dry
sand, in which they root quickly if put in a brisk heat.
PRinULA SINENSIS has not by any means been left behind in the im-
provement of florists flowers. The latest strains put on the market
would almost be taken for new species by those who only knew the
plants of nearly thirty years ago. P. sinensis is a popular Winter
blooming plant. The seed may be sown as early as the last of March
to have plants in 5 and 6-inch pots in bloom before Christmas. Later
sowings should also be made, but it should be borne in mind that the
plants make their best growth during cool weather. They may be sum-
mered in a well-aired and shaded frame.
P. ForbesH is a wonderful species when we consider the enormous
number of flowers produced on even small plants. Several plants may
be potted together in shallow pans.
P. floribunda with small yellow flowers has a very florlferous form
named P. Isabellina; the flowers are creamy white.
Primula obconica would seem to be in the process of being evolved
from tbe rather inconspicuous flower of the type to one not unworthy
to stand alongside those of the finest strains of Primula sinensis. One
of the European seed firms, a few years ago, offered seed under the
name of P. o. graudiflora fimbriata, a sowing of which I made at the
time. The resulting seedlings corroborated all that had been claimed
for them. Some are heavily fringed, and range from pure white to deep
rose. The largest individual flowers are a little short of being an inch
and a half in diameter. The plants are exceedingly floriferous; some in
6-inch pots have the foliage almost hidden with bloom. To have plants
in flower by the first of the year the seeds should be sown as early in the
season as possible. Cover the seed very lightly with finely screened
sphagnum, moistening the surface whenever it shows signs of becoming
dry. As soon as large enough to handle the seedlings may be either
potted off singly, or placed around the edge of a 3 or 4-inch pot previous
to giving them their first pots. During the Summer the seedlings should
be shaded from the sun and never allowed to get dry. They do not
make much headway during the very hot months. The plants will not
suffer if given their last shift just as they are coming into bloom. Keep
in the coolest house.
