STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS, 61
Pollinating Primula Flowers— Any extra good forms of Primula sinen-
sis orP, obconica, desirable on account of large flowers, shape, or color,
should be set aside for seei. During the Winter raonths,w^hen insects are
scarce, pollinating will have to be done by hand, as it is rarely the case
that a flower of Primula is fertilized by its own pollen. For peed plants
preference should be given to those having the pistil protruding from
the corolla tube. It may be stated that primroses have two kinds of
flowers, each kind on separate plants, one having what is called the
style elongated until the stigma shows plainly from the mouth of the
tube formed by the bases of the petals, while the stamens are attached
near the bottom of this tube. In the other flower the positions of the
organs are reversed, the style being shortened so that the stigma is
more than half way down the tube; and the stamens are in full view
near the mouth of the tube exactly in the position occupied by the
stigma of the long-styled flower. The pollen of the Primrose is ripe
before the petals are expanded, but at this stage the stigma of the same
flower is not in a condition to receive it. Those flowers having elon-
gated styles are easiest to manipulate, and if I am not mistaken, they
are the best seed bearers. Pollen, from either short or long-styled
flowers, may be applied to the sti2;raas. When it is necessary to pollinate
those with short styles, it is, of course, impossible to get at the stigmas
with a small brush, owing to the anthers filling the mouth of the corolla
tube, but with a pair of small scissors the corolla tube may be snapped
in two immediately below that part to which the stamens are attached,
thus giving easv ingress to the stigma. Keep the atmosphere as dry as
possible while fertilization is taking place
REINWARDTIA (LINUH) TRIQYNUM and R. TETRAGYNUM are both
desirable Winter flowering plants. R. trigynum is the best known; the
other one has light yellow flowers and is the most floriferous. They
may be planted outside, middle of May, and lifted during the ^nd of
September, if large specimens are required for the greenhouse; or from
cuttines rooted in April they may be grown on in pots, pinching occa-
sionally. R. trigynum is the only one which seeds freely.
ROCHEA FALCATA or Crassula falcata, is the principal member of a
small genus of plants indigenous to the Ca^je of Good Hope. The
foliage is rather peculiar in that the leaves are thick, blunt and formed
somewhat after the shape of a curved knife. The principal attraction
lies in the flowers, which are bright scarlet, small, but produced in im-
mense numbers in flat heads. Although in Summer it will stand an
abundance of water in fully exposed situations, it should be given drier
conditions in Winter. It will succeed well enough in a house suitable for
Geraniums. The Rochea is a slow-growing plant, consequently getting
up a stock is a tedious process. The tips of the shoots make the finest
plants, and the pieces of the stem next the place where the tip has been
taken off, can be utilized for as much of its length as will be safe to
enable it to break out again. For leaf cuttings the leaves must be cut
off cleanly and put in sand, much in the same way as Echeverias, only a
little more heat should be given during the rooting process. Encourage
old plants to send out small growths along the old stems by taking out
