62 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS.
the tips and keeping the plants perfectly dry for a time. As soon as they
begin to break, water may be gradually supplied.
RUELLIA MACRANTHA— For a greenhouse plant for amateurs this is
one of the best. Its cultivation is very simple. Cuttings rooted in
September will furnish fair-sized flowering plants by the end of January.
These may be planted out, end of May, in the open ground; by the end
of September they will have made considerable growth; and if large
specimens are wanted they may be lifted and potted. The flowers are
very large, tubular-shaped, and magenta in color.
RUSSELIAS— Russelia juncea is an old plant but too seldom seen; it
is probably the most useful of all our basket or vase plants. It sends
out long arching branches of rush-like growths with flowers of all
intense scarlet. Planted singly in vases there are few things to equal it
in appearance. To propagate it take a handful of shoots at a time and
cut them into lengths of from 4 to 6 inches. In this way 200 cuttings
may be made with two strokes of the knife, and every one will root. R.
Lemoiuei and R. el^gantissima are both good. The flowers are smaller
than those of R. juncea, but more of them are produced. The two latter
are better Winter flowering plants than R. juncea.
SARRACENIAS— Natives of the Eastern States. There are seven species
and a large number of hybrids; much prized in Europe owing to their
curiously-shaped, aud in some cases highly-colored leaves. S. Drum-
mondii, a native of Florida, is the finest of all the kinds, none of the hy-
brids approaching it in the gorgeous markings of the foliage. Sarrace-
nias are best grown in a cool, sunny house. The potting material
should be the same as recommended for Nepenthes.
SALVIA SPLENDENS— When it is desired to raise this fine late Sum-
mer-blooming plant from cuttings, old plants may be lifted, the flowers
cut off and the plants set in a cool house. Under these conditions the
growths made are softer and root very quickly, a single plant giving a
large number of cuttings. Fall propagating is somtimes done in a
hurry, owing to the sudden arrival of a cold spell, and this Salvia may
be lifted and stored in safety without the loss of much time.
Salvia Splendens Bonfire is an improvement on the old kind, being
of a deeper color and more compact in growth.
There is a very large number of species, but only a few in general cul-
tivation. S. leucantha is very late in coming into bloom, making enor-
mous growth during the Summer. It is well worth growing even for
the short season of bloom. S. patens is one of the handsomest blue-
flowered plants in cultivation. Store the roots under a bench and start
early to get cuttings; or it may be raised from seed.
SAINTPAULIA lONANTHA is a very pretty dwarf, blue-flowered plant,
the leaves resembling those of a Gloxinia but smaller. With little trou-
ble it may be had in bloom at almost any season. The end of March is
a good time to propagate. Cut off the ripened leaves with about an
inch of stalk attached and insert in the sand bed, covering only a small
part of the leaf blade. The sand should not be kept too wet during the
