STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS. 63
process of rooting. Otherwise, tlie treatment may be similar to that of
the Gloxinia. The plants may be flowered all the year round, or given
a period of rest by partly withholding water.
SPHCEROQYNE LATIFOLIA— This stove plant bears the distinction of
being one of the finest foliage plants in cultivation. Together with
Cyanophyllum magnificum, another noble leaved plant, it belongs to
the same order as our common Meadow Beauty (Rhexia). Both of these
plants look as if they would be very difficult to propagate, but, on the
contrary, they are exceedingly easy subjects, so easy that if the condi-
tions are all right, there is no excuse for losing a cutting. Mossing the
tops is a rather slow and unsatisfactory method, and, I think, single
eye cuttings can be just as rapidly grown into specimens as successfully
rooted tops. During January the plants are in less active growth than
at any other period, consequently this is the best season for putting in
the cuttings. Split the stems, making single eye cuttings; shorten back
the leaves to within about 2 inches of the leaf stalk, leave about 214
inches of stem (less than this will root poorly); put firmly in sand of
warm propagating bed, taking care that the under part of the piece of
leaf lies flat on the sand; cover with glass. Rooting will be indicated
by the buds elongating. Pot in thumb pots and keep close for a time.
STEPHANOTIS FLORIBUNDA— A great deal of roof space may be suc-
cessfully utilized in the growing of this plant, the flowers of which can
be profitably disposed of at all times. The plants may be put out in
benches in the greenhouse and trained up the rafters, but the bench must
be one which will not need repairing every now and then. The best
plan is to have a rather deep box of soil specially prepared. Fibrous
loam, enriched with manure; some charcoal and crushed bone will keep
the soil open. It is not necessary to have a high temperature in Winter,
as most of the growth will be made during the Summer months. Start
with cuttings, as they flower much more abundantly than plants grown
from seed.
STEVI AS— Cuttings are struck in late Spring. Put in 2i/2-inch pots;
from these they are shifted into 4-inch pots. About the beginning of
August they are transferred into 6-inch pots. To prevent the plants get-
ting wiry constant pinching should be resorted to. Pot-grown plants
are preferable to field-grown subjects for late fiowering, as the plants in
pots can be stored in a place from which the frost is just kept out, so as
to fill space vacated by Chrysanthemums. Field-grown plants may get
their last pinching during September, and in the benches should be
planted quite close together.
STREPTOCARPUS HYBRIDS— These have now attained such a high
degree of perfection that they should be included in every general collec-
tion of greenhouse decorative plants. They are better window flower-
ing plants than is generally supposed, not requiring a very high tempera-
ture at any time. Seed, to produce flowering plants in the Fall, should
be sown during March. As the seed is very small, extra care should be
taken in the sowing and subsequent treatment until the plants are large
enough. In connection with the germination there is a peculiarity not
