64 STOVE AND GREENHOUSE PLANTS,
noticeable in other plants. Two tiny seed leaves are produced shortly
after sowing the seed, and after a while one of these seed leaves dies the
other continuing to elongate. In some of the species, notably one
name S. Wendlandi, this seed leaf, which at first is about the piz»^ of a
pin head, expands till it gets about 18 inches long and a foot broad.
STROBILANTHES ANISOPHYLLUS and S. ISOPHYLLUS are very neat
and useful Winter blooming plants for the warm greenhouse. Flowers
are light purple. Cuttings should be taken in early Spring. Plant out
for the Summer, lifting and potting end of September.
SYNADENIun QRANTII is a very compact-growing euphorblaceous
plant, with bright green foliage, bearing no flowers in a small state;
and those which come on mature plants do not have much to recom-
mend them. This is one of the easiest plants to root. By merely stick-
ing pieces about 8 inches in length in the soil about the end of May, they
take root quickly, making a good display for the balance of the season.
STEPHANOPHYSUM (RUELLIA) LONQIFLORUM— For conservatory
decoration this is a most useful plant during the dull months, small-sized
subjects being covered with bright red flowers. The ease with which
flowering plants may be had by the end of the year is remarkable. Cut-
tings are put in the usual time that soft-wooded bedding plants are
propagated ; they root in a few days, after which they are put in 3-inch
pots. Three of the plants may then be put in a 6-inch pot, and by keep-
ing them in a growing temperature they may be had in full flower two
months after the cuttings are taken. It is not only useful as a Winter
blooming plant but it comes in well for planting out in Spring, bloom-
ing satisfactorily during the Summer.
TINNEA yCTHIOPICA— A shrubby greenhouse plant sometimes called
the Tree Violet, owing to its flowers having the same fragrance as the
violet. It is propagated from good-sized cuttings of the dormant wood.
TOXICOPHL^A SPECTABILIS— A Spring blooming stove shrub.
Flowers are pure white, borne in dense clusters. Should be treated
similarly to the Ixoras.
