67
Bedding Plants.
ACALYPHAS— There are about eight species and varieties of Acalypha
growu as bedding plants. With the exception of A. hispida (Sanderi)
they are ornamental foliage plants, having bronze-colored leaves of
varying shades. A Godsefflana and A, Hamiltoniana are marked with
creamy white margins. A. Wilkesiana has several variations, the best
known of which are A. Macafeeana and A. musaica. A. hispida has very
ornamental pendant spikes of red flowers, produced in the axils of the
leaves. Cuttings may be taken in the Fall before the cold weather in-
jures the plants, but to save space the old plants should be Ufted, cut
back, and boxed or potted, starting them into growth in early Spring,
when they push out from every bud giving abundant material for
propagating.
AGERATUM MEXICANUM— This is one of the most tender bedding
plants, although it does not require much heat during the Winter. Lift
old plants and keep in a greenhouse; they will give an abundance of
growths for cuttings during the months of February and March.
ALTERNANTHERA — The dwarf and slow-growing Alternantheras,
such as A. brilliantissima and A.paronychioides are unsatisfactory from
cuttings, unless taken in late Summer and kept growing. When taken
later they are apt to continue in a weak condition all through the Win-
ter. But in either case they take up too much room in the greenhouse
for nearly eight months. A much better method is to lift the old plants
before the frost blackens them, cut over to within three or four inches
from the roots; put the cut-over plants as thickly as they Avill go in
boxes; give water once and jjlace under the benches of a warm house,
where they will get some light. About the beginning of March bring
the boxes up to the light, sprinkle about an inch of sand among the
plants, and give water. Two weeks later divide the plants and pot
them, when it will be found the pieces are much superior to plants from
cuttings and make a better and quicker display in their Summer
quarters.
ALYSSUM MARITIMUM (Kceiiiga)~The plant known as Sweet Alye-
Bum is one of the last to succumb to cold w^eather. In this locality it
is frequently in bloom up to the middle of December. It is used for win-
dow boxes, vases and baskets. A few plants may be lifted, cut back
and planted in the front par^ of a rose or carnation bench, w^here they
will furnish abundant material for cuttings in the Spring. It is also
raised from seeds.
AflARANTHUS will germinate out-of-doors and make fair-sized plants,
but to have them at their best the seed should be sown in the beginning
of March, in a warm house, and near the glass, as the seedlings get very
weak unless given all the light possible. As soon as large enough they
are pricked off into boxes, and, when they reach the proper size, potted
singly into 3-inch pots planting them out from this size. Their value
