BEDDING PLANTS. G9
lies in the highly colored foliage, no other class of plants surpassing
them in this respect. In the hottest parts of the country they do not
last long after attaining their full size, and may be successfully used
among Canna plants, which have been set out in a semi-dormant state.
ANNUAL PLANTS are those which germinate, come into flower and
ripen their seed within a year. Plants of this nature usually die soon
after ripening their seeds. Familiar examples are as follows: Phlox
Drummondii, Chinese Aster, Browallia elata and Silene muscipula. But
these and many other plants known as annuals under favorable circum-
stances will germinate in the Fall and flower the following Summer.
In this locality Phlox Drummondii and Silene muscipula germinate freely
in the Autumn months out-of-doors, and flower the following year; so
that it will be seen that the term cannot be strictly applied similarly in
varying latitudes.
ASCLEPIAS CURASSAVICA— A greenhouse plant in European gar-
dens. Seeds sown first half of February, and the plants put out from
8-inch pots in May, will grow .5 feet high and 8 feet through, bearing
myriads of yellow and red flowers. Seeds ripen freely on outdoor plants.
ASTERS, CHINESE (Callistephus chinensis)— A few years ago Chinese
Asters started early (about the beginning of February) and flowered in-
doors proved remunerative; but so easily are they grown that the mar-
ket soon became overstocked. Their habit of growing to a great height
in the greenhouse can be guarded against by selecting the varieties,
planting wide enough apart and giving the maximum amount of light
and air. They should take the place of exhausted Carnations or Mi-
gnonette. The outdoor crop need not come in bloom all at the same time;
the first lot may be safely planted out during the middle of Aprilin
most places, the seeds being sown in very shallow hotbeds about the
end of February.
BANANAS (flusa)— The ordinary fruiting Bananas for sub-tropical
bedding will do well in almost any part of the country. With a plant
or two to start with no trouble need be experienced in getting up a
stock, as they sucker freely from the bases of the old stems. If there is
difficulty in disposing of them, which is not likely to be the case, as in
every community there are some people who like things which are un-
common, then use them for the decoration of the home grounds with
such plants as Cannas, Eulalias and dark-leaved Ricinus. This combi-
nation will make a display that will be hard to equal. There are few
things easier to keep over Winter. On the approach of frost the leaves
should be shortened back by two-thirds of their length, the plants lifted,
roots shortened back considerably, and stowed as thickly together as
they Avill go in a box and placed in some out of-the-way corner, where
frost Avill not get at them. They will pull through the Winter safely,
in a prettj^ low temperature. When planting-out time comes they are
rather uncanny-looking objects for the center of a bed; but they are not
long in developing a crop of leaves.
The hardiest species of the genus, and one splendidly adapted to
our Summers, is known as the Abyssinian Banana, M. Ensete. It does
