70 BEDDING PLANTS.
not sucker like the ordinary edible fruited varieties, but is easily raised
from seeds. Sow them the latter part of January in the sand bed of a
warm propagating house, and pot off the seedlings w^hen they have de-
veloped three or four leaves. They may be potted earlier if kept in bot-
tom heat. In one season they will, under favorable conditions, grow 6
feet high, and if lifted, kept over Winter and planted the second season,
they will develop into very large specimens. They delight in rich soil.
M. superba— A species somewhat resembling M. Ensete, is of a slower
growth. The foliage is slightly covered with a farinaceous looking
substance. Tn Winter the leaves die down, the bases of which form a
resting bulb-like formation. It should be started into growth before
planting out. These plants are raised from seed,
BALSAflS (Impatiens Balsamina)— Many florists depend to a great
extent upon the white camellia-flowered Balsams for supplying mate-
rial for designs during Summer. Although there are other things more
satisfactory the Balsam will continue to be used, as it can be depended
upon to grow with a minimum amount of care. The crop is sometimes
disappointing, owing to a large percentage of the seedlings bearing
semi-double flowers. Those plants with very double flowers do not set
seed very freely, of course, and the temptation is evidently great, in
gathering a seed crop, to collect the capsules from the very abundant
crops on the single-flowered plants to tha exclusion of those on the
doubles and semi-doubles. A few plants of the best types carefully lifted
from the fleld during dull weather and put indoors, will seed more fceely
than when left at the mercy of wind and rain, or panes of glass may be
fixed over extra choice plants in the field. For each plant get two pieces
of wood, making a cut of about an inch deep with a wide-set saw near
the top; have the sticks driven into the ground on opposite sides of the
plant, with the cuts facing each other; into these cuts slide the panes.
This looks like a lot of trouble, but it is better to do it than to be with-
out the flowers. For late crops the seeds may be sown out-of-doors and
transplanted. To have them in bloom early sow in shallow hotbeds
and transplant about the middle of May, earlier or later, according to
locality.
The Zanzibar Balsam, Impatiens SultanI and its forms make very showy
border plants, and need very little care after being planted out. Sow the
seeds in heat about the 1st of March; keep growing to prevent flower-
ing in a y oung state.
BEGONIAS— Seeds of the bedding varieties should be sown by the be-
ginning of January, to have the plants in good shape for Spring sales.
Cuttings are often used, but they do not make anything hke as good
plants as those from seed. The seed should be sown in boxes or pans.
Sterilize the soil used on the surface, firm well, water, then sow thinly
without covering the seed, or with only a very small quantity of fine
sand, covering the box or pan with a pane of glass until the seeds vege-
tate. Some of the varieties used for bedding, and which do grandly in
most localities, are Bruantii, Erfordise, Vernon, Vulcan and Zulu King.
Out-of-doors all of them will ripen seed by September. Seed of some of
