72 BEDDING PLANTS.
each should be saved, keeping it until wanted for sowing, without
bursting the seed vessels.
Begonia corallina is undoubtedly the best of all the shrubby Bego-
nias for outdoor use. The larger the specimens when put out the finer
the display. Small plants in 3-inch pots must necessarily make fresh
growths from the root, in order to attain one or two feet in height, and
in doing this the best part of the Summer is spent; but large, healthy
specimens will break freely into growth from the old wood and produce
myriads of bright red flowers. An abundant supply of propagating
material can be secured from out-door plants just before freezing
weather. Old plants will hibernate in boxes under the bench of a mod-
erately warm house.
BELLIS PERENNIS— The best kinds of double daisies are perpetuated
by dividing the plants after blooming, but in many parts of the country
these plants do not survive hot weather. Seeds should be sown during
September, and the plants Wintered in a frame.
BROWALLIA ELATA— A blue-flowered annual species, may be sown
where it is to bloom. In this locality the numerous varieties are hardy
annuals.
B. speciosa may either be raised from cuttings or seeds. When
grown cool both are good Winter blooming plants for the conservatory.
CANNAS— The first lot of rhizomes intended for bedding purposes
should be started during the first part of February. These should be
the finest kinds and those which it is desired to increase, because even
the smallest pieces having one dormant point, started early, will make
plants large enough to occupy 5-inch pots by the time for planting out.
Leave as much of the rhizome to each point as possible, as it will send
out new growths from the dormant buds between the scales. In the
formation of the rhizomes scales are first formed entirely encircling the
rhizome, which, as it reaches the light, gradually elongate until true
leaves are formed. The main crop may be gone over during the first
half of March. Cut up the rhizomes into pieces small enough, so that
when the time comes for potting, each piece will fill a 5-inch pot. Before
potting they should be put in material which will encourage the forma-
tion of roots, and the best for this purpose is sphagnum, sand and rottel
cow manure in equal parts. When the rhizomes are potted without
roots they always turn out unsatisfactory. Some start immediately
but the majority remain dormant, and take up valuable space for too
long a time. Use boxes to start the rhizomes; place a couple of inches
of the material in the bottom, put the pieces on this and cover with at
least one inch of the rooting medium. Water only sparingly at first; as
the growths push up give full exposure to the light.
Varieties — It is less than 20 years since the principal feature of the
Canna was its foliage, the blooms being small and comparatively
insignificant. Since that time the development of the flower has
been very marked. The beginning was made in Europe, and from the
first of the improved forms numerous fine varieties have been raised in
America, so that now anyone can take a few good flowered sorts, jjol-
