74 BEDDING PLANTS,
linate the flowers, and among the resulting progeny will be found some
as good, if not better, than the parents. A new race has recently sprung
up known as the orchid-flowered Cannas; these have been secured by
crossing the Crozy section with the large yellow flowered C. flaccida.
The flowers are very large and showy, but the direct cross between the
two is not very suitable as a bedder, owing to the soft nature of the
segments. There are at present indications of the orchid-flowered section
being considerably improved in the substance of the flower, so that in a
few years they will be more largely grown.
Varieties with Ornamental Foliage— Some of the varieties are grown
for the foliage alone; these are either slightly variegated or with the
leaves dark red. Black Beauty, raised by Mr. E. M. Byrnes, U. S. Dept.
of Agriculture, has for 15 years been by far the best of this class, and
likely to remain so. It should never be planted out in a dormant state.
Raising from Seed — The seed covering is very hard and resists the in-
fluence of heat and moisture for a long time under ordinary conditions.
Germination may be hastened by soaking the seeds in warm water, and
also by removing a very small piece of the seed covering. In any case
sow early and in a bottom heat of from 75 to 80 degrees.
Storing — Cannas should be lifted from their Summer quarters just as
soon as the foliage is blackened by the first frosts. Before this occurs
they should be gone over and labeled correctly, noting the color, size
and comparative value of seedlings. Use hanging labels, tying them on
firmly as near the ground as possible. Cut off the flow^eriug stem about
6 inches from the ground. Put the kinds together. If there be green-
house accommodation a position under the benches, where they wont
get much drip, will suit them exactly. If greenhouse accommodation is
not available they should be closely packed together in boxes, using dry
sand, and stowed away where frost will not affect the rhizomes.
CH^NOSTOMA HISPIDA— This charming dwarf shrub is not so well
known among florists as its merits deserve. It is useful in a number
of ways, but principally as a plant for filling boxes or baskets. For
rock work, cemeteries or even as a bedding plant it is prettier than a
number of the things commonly used for such purposes. It has a pro-
cumbent or decumbent habit, according to the position in which it finds
itself, and has the great merit of being continually decked with a host
of neat little pinkish white star-shaped flowers. It is remarkably quick
in making a bushy growth from the seedling or cutting stage. For
propagation lift old plants in the Fall; keep in the greenhouse and take
cuttings from the young growths early in the Spring.
CINERARIA MARITIMA and C. CANDIDISSIflA are much used on
account of their foliage, which is densely covered with very fine white
hairs, so much so that the leaves have a whitish appearance. The most
reliable method of propagation is from seed, which should be sown in
Autumn. Cuttings may also be taken, avoiding those which are very
robust. Give them treatment similar to that recommended for Gazanias.
CODI/CUM (Croton)— It is only within recent years that these plants
have been used to any extent in the open ground. They succeed well,
