BEDDING PLANTS, 75
putting on colors much superior to wtiat we usually see indoors. Some
of the higher colored varieties are unsuited for this work, as they need a
high temperature at night as well as during the day. The following are
the kinds which I have found reliable: C. Lady Zetland, C. pictum, C.
aucubaBfoliam, C. chrysophyllum (one of the most satisfactory), C.
multicolor, C. interruptum, C. Veitchii and C. Weismanni. As these may
be grown successfully from 10 to 15 degrees cooler than C. Reidi, C.
Challenger and others of that section, they should be given a trial even
In the Northern States. The principal batch of cuttings for bedding
plants is taken beginning of September. If there is no bottom heat by
that time they will root splendidly in a close propagating frame. With
bottom heat they root in the open bed, and the cuttings may be quite
large. Allow quite a quantity of roots to form before potting. A mini-
mum temperature of 60 degrees will be found sufficient during Winter
for the above varieties. Before putting them in the ground they must
be very gradually hardened off otherwise they are apt to lose the lower
leaves. Old plants in pots should be given a top-dressing of bone meal
and plunged out of doors, to furnish cuttings.
COLEUS — Owing to the easy way in which young plants are got up
their rapid growth and very ornamental foliage, when planted out, the
very numerous .kinds will continue to be popular bedding plants. In
Winter young plants should not be subjected to a lower temperature
than 55 degrees. From a few plants grown from cuttings, put in dur-
ing the beginning of September, a large quantity of young plants may
be raised in Spring. In this latitude we have little use for hotbeds. In
other localities, where the nights are colder during April and the first
half of May, the hotbed is an indispensable adjunct to the greenhouse
for developing plants such as Coleus from late rooted cuttings.
COSMOS BIPINNATUS— To have the plants complete their growth
-early the seed should be sown indoors, or on a hotbed by the middle of
March. Give the seedlings enough light to avoid weak growth. Plant
out in rather sandy soil, and not too heavily manured. C. sulphureus
has yellow flowers; late blooming plants of it may be lifted and put in
large pots, or planted out in a bench where there is abundant head
room. When grown on stiff soil the plants lift easily. Some of the
more robust shoots may be removed, owing to the loss of some of the
roots in removing. In this way they will give a large quantity of bloom
up till the middle of December.
Supports for the Plants — We frequently see a very promising crop of
Cosmos laid flat on the ground by a moderate wind storm, which not
only breaks half, or more, of the branches, but the flowers on those
which are left are at least a week later than usual in making their
appearance and have crooked stems into the bargain. Drive in a fence
post at each end of the row, stout in proportion to the length of row,
with smaller posts at intervals between; knock in some small wire
staples at convenient heights in the post; let one man unwind wire or
strong string at one end of the row, and another take the end of the
wire or string and put through the staples, securing firmly to the strong
posts at each end. Two or three stretches to each row will suffice, and
