76 JiKDIUSa PLASTS.
if tied afttn-wanl with string will lielp to secure the plants in an upright
position against storms.
COTYLEDON (Echeveria)— Freqnently used for carpet bedding.
Some of the best for this purpose are C. atropurpurea, C. californica, C.
clavifolia, C. fascicularis, C. gibbiflora var. metallica, C. secunda var.
glaiica,C.imbricata, C. Pachyphytum, C. mirabilis,C.globosa var. exten-
sa, and C. eximia. The narrow-leaved kinds are raised in quantity from
leaves; others from seed, offsets and from cuttings. November and De-
cember are the best months for propagation. Pull the leaves from the
plants, taking care during the operation that the bud in the axil of the
leaf is preserved. Make a depression, say 2 inches deep and 4 or . inches
wide, across the sand bed of a warm house; lay two rows of leaves in
this with their bases touching; keep dry until the little growths start.
When large enough they should be pricked off close together in boxes.
Old plants should be lifted in Autumn and placed as thickly as they will
go in boxes, without adding much soil and keeping them without water
in a cool house.
CUPHEA PLATYCENTRA and C. LLAV^— A few plants Wintered
over in a moderately warm house will give cuttings in March. C. Llav.e
has large and handsome flowers, but they are not freely produced until
the plants have made considerable growth.
DAHLIAS— The Dahlia delights in a cool and humid atmosphere, but
immediately the mercury gets anywhere near the freezing point that ie
the end of the plants usefulness for the season. Old plants are cut back
to within G inches of the soil, dug up, and the soil removed from the
fleshy tuber-like roots; they are then stored for the Winter in a dry and
frost-proof structure.
Propagation— Although the kinds are perpetuated by division, graft-
ing and cuttings, the latter method is the one best suited for raising
large quantities of young plants. The roots are brought into heat
about the 1st of March, covered over with some light soil, and encour-
aged to make growth by frequent syringing. As soon as the shoots are
3 or 4 inches long, separate from the parent, taking them with a heel.
They can then either be put singly in small pots and kept close and
warm until rooted, or put in an ordinary propagating bed with a bot-
tom heat of 75 degrees. The sand need not be kept very moist, but the
atmosphere should contain enough moisture to prevent wilting. As
soon as weather permits the plants should be put out in a frame to
harden.
Varieties— The large and perfectly symmetrical flowers are rather
stiff and artificial looking for cutting purposes. The cactus-flowered
section do not have this fault; nearly all of them are well worth grow-
ing. The Pompons, especially those with white flowers, can be utilized
for various purposes. The single-flowered varieties can all be used for
cutting; this section seeds freely, and some of the strains offered by
European seedsmen come remarkably true, but good kinds should be
perpetuated from cuttings. The Cosmos Dahlia is the result of cross-
