78 BEDDING PLANTS.
SoJI— This should be very rich and light, and if the plants are put in
positions where it is inconvenient to water them during dry weather
they should get a mulching of half-decayed stable bedding.
ERYTHRINA— The varieties of E. Crista-Galli are seldom without
flowers during the hottest months when planted out. During Winter
they should be kept dry, under a bench, and may even be put out in that
state, although quicker results may be had by starting them into
growth before planting. They are best propagated by giving the old
plants heat and moisture, to produce growths about the 1st of March.
When a few inches long take off with a heel, pot in sandy soil and stand
them in a warm jjropagating frame.
FICUS ELASTICA may be associated with such plants as Vh negated
Screw Pines, Crotous, Variegated Panax and Dracf^na Sanderiana in
the formation of tropical groups of plants. They make very rapid prog-
ress when plunged in 5-inch pots shortly after being potted from 8-inch
pots. All of these may be arranged where the full sun will strike them.
The Ficus must be examined from time to time, to prevent the roots
from establishing themselves outside of the pots.
QAZANIAS— Decumbent composite plants from South Africa, of a
some vv hat succulent growth, and succeeding well in partially shaded
positions. In the Northern States they thrive in full sun. The flowers
are large, deep orange. Owing to the succulent character of the plants
the cuttings are liable to decay when placed in wet sand. Put them in
boxes, using sandy loam. Make the soil quite firm; give one good
wateriug, then put in the cuttings and keep in a cold but close frame
until rooted. This may be done about Ihe end of September; on the
approach of severe weather bring the boxes into a cool greenhouse and
pot off in early Spring.
QERANIUn— See Pelargonium.
HELIOTROPE (Heliotropium peruvianum)— Grown principally on ac-
count of the sweet-scented flowers. There are dark and light lilac varie-
ties, also a few with whitish flowers. A few years ago a very large-flowered
kind was sent out, but it had no perfume, and its first season was its last.
The kinds will succeed best in full sun. Old plants should be wintered,
planted out on a bench. A minimum temperature of 40 degrees will suit.
From these plants abundant material for propagation may be had in
early Spring.
HUNNEMANNIA FUMARIEFOLIA, for late Summer and Fall cutting,
beats all other members of the Poppy family. Seeds of the earliest
flowers will have ripened by the end of September. They should be
gathered and laid away in a cool, dry place for sowing in early Spring,
taking care not to burst the seed vessels. The only difficulty attending
the cultivation of this Poppy is in the seedling stage. The young plants
are difficult to transfer from the seed pan to small pots, but this can be
avoided if the seeds are sown in small pots, with the soil firmly pressed
before sowing and shifted on as the plants require it. The fiowers resem-
ble those of some of the Eschscholtzias, to which genus it is closely
allied; but there is much more substance to the flowers of the Hunne*
