BEDDING PLANTS. 79
mannia and also to the flower stems. They can be cut immediately
after opening and kept in excellent condition lor several days. It
thrives well in sandy soil, and needs but little attention in tbe way of
watering after planting out. It sometimes stands the Winters in the
District of Columbia, but oftener it gets killed outright.
ISOTOriA LONGIFLORA— This plant is figured in Curtis Botanical
Magazine under the name of LobeUa longiflora. It belongs to the order
Campanulacege. In Europe it is grown as a greenhouse subject. In
America it is one of our most showy white flowering biennials for the
open border. The plants before coming in bloom are anything but
attractive, as they closely resemble some of our common coarse-grow-
ing weeds. The flowers, on large plants, are anything but sparingly
produced; they are pure white, an inch or so across the petals. Sow
the seed in a cool greenhouse in the Autumn, or in a warm house early in
Spring. Each plant will ripen an immense quantity of seed.
IRESINE (Achyranthes)— As a bedding plant, treat much the same
as Coleus. They will stand a lower temperature. Cuttings put in dur-
ing September can be used as stock plants in the Spring.
LANTANA — Low-growing greenhouse shrubs with yellow, white, red
and purple flowers in small, close heads. They are perfectly at home in
the open border, growing most luxuriantly in heavy, well-manured soil.
The leaves and flowers have an undesirable odor, which is against their
ever becoming very popular. Take cuttings early, and from plants thus
raised they may be further propagated during February. A minimum
temperature of 50 degrees will suit all of the kinds.
LOBELIA ERINUS— A very popular bedding plant in Europe, but
short-lived here, owing principally to the high temperature during mid-
summer. A few old plants kept on a bench along with such things as
Heliotrope and Ageratum will give fine cuttings, which are rooted be-
ginning of March and transferred to a hotbed, to make growth.
MESEMBRYANTHEflUM— Ine pretty little variegated Ice plant,
known under the name of Mesembryanthemum cordifolium variegatum,
has a habit of damping off in the propagating bed when treated like the
majority of bedding plants. A way to circumvent this is to prepare
shallow boxes of sand ana leaf-soil. Give one good watering previous
to putting in the cutting. Let the boxes stand for a few hours, put in
the cuttings quite close together and stand them on a bench over the
heating pipes. Give no more water till rooted; that is, if the soil does
not become too dry; in this case the cuttings should not be watered with
a sprinkler. This variety is one of the prettiest of dwarf bedding plants,
and should be more commonly grown. M.crystallinum,M. tricolor, with
pink and white flowers, and M. amoena, the latter an evergreen species,
are all used for outdoor planting. The annual kinds should be sown
indoors beginning of March. Cuttings of the perennial kinds should be
rooted in Autumn.
MIGNONETTE, (Reseda) — For pot culture sow beginning of Septem-
ber in 3-inch pots; leave threeof the strongest seedlings in each pot, and
long before the plants are pot-bound shift into 5-inch pots. Keep in the
