80 1\I-:DI)IN(i PLANTS.
coolest house, where they can be given abundant ventilation and full
sun at all times. About two quarts of soot to a barrel of water makes
a good liquid manure. For blooming out-of-doors sow thinly as soon
as weather permits.
For early flowering- seed may be sown during the first half of August.
The method of sowing the seed on the benches is the one there is the
least difficulty with, and that calling for the least amount of intelli-
gent care, as a number of seeds can be sown at each station where they
are intended to flower, and the strongest plants left. This system is
not always convenient, however. Other methods consist of sowing in
pots and planting from them, or in boxes or pans, and pricked out from
these into small pots, shifting if necessary, and planting out when the
proper time arrives. Mignonette seedlings, when they get beyond a
certain size, are exceedingly difficult to prick off successfully; but when
taken as soon as they can be handled there is little danger of failure if
ordinary precautions are taken against damping off, suffering frqm too
much or too little water, or from the direct rays of the sun until the
seedlings are established. Mignonette hkes cool treatment, so that
attempts to coddle it by giving a high, close atmosphere will not pro-
duce flowers worth the cutting, if they ever reach the flowering stage.
The soil to grow it in should be well enriched with cow manure, and
well firmed before either sowing or planting. There are several kinds
on the market to select from ; but there is not so much in the variety as
in the way it is grown.
MIMULUS MOSCHATUS— An old-fashioned plant with a musky odor.
It will keep in a frame during the Winter, and may be brought indoors
early in the season, divided into small pieces and potted. It grows best
in a shaded cool house, or it may be planted out in a moist shady spot.
niRABILIS JALAPA— This species (the Marvel of Peru or Four
oclock) has tuberous roots, and in Winter may be stored in the same
way as the roots of the Dahlia, or raised annually from seeds sown in-
doors. The flowers are very showy, of various colors, principally yel-
low, crimson, red and white.
NIEREHBERGIA FRUTESCENS and N. GRACILIS— Seeds of these
should be sown in September and plants wintered in a frame. The fol-
lowing Summer they will make much better subjects than from Spring-
sown seed. They are principally used in large vases, but they make
exceedingly showy plants for the rock garden and border.
NIGELLA DAHASCENA— As soon as the weather permits seeds may
be sown rather thinly where the plants are intended to bloom in the
open border.
OXALIS— For outdoor blooming during September and October
knock out a few plants from their flowering pots and start some of the
largest bulbs about the middle of July in 3-inch pots. Use light soil.
Some of the plants will be in flower inside of a month. They can be used
as bedders, to take the places of plants which die off as the result of
warm weather; for instance, Ten-Week Stocks, Lobelias and Pansies.
Oxalis Bowiei, O. hirta, O. rosacea, and one which goes under the name
