BEDDING PLANTS.
81
of O. crydentelles, are all very suitable for this kind of work. Plants
which were in bloom during the Winter and Spring may be started for
this purpose after a few weeks rest.
PANDANUS— For bedding purposes the best plant in this genus is
P. Veitchii. It will thrive in almost any position, but it makes better
leaves in full sun than it does in shade. As young plants increase in
value up to a certain size, they should be put out in their pots, and once
or twice during Summer should be examined at the roots and larger
pots given if necessary. The roots are large and soft, and when they
grow over the sides of the plunged pot and into the surrounding soil
they are difficult to manage afterward.
PANSIES (Viola)— To have pansy plants ready to put out in the Fall
the seed should be sown about the middle of August, and even earlier,
where the weather will permit. In the very warm weather the princi-
pal danger is in the damping of the^eedhng plantsshortly after they have
germinated. Sow thinly and cover lightly with screened moss, or old
manure, giving only enough water to keep the surface slightly moist.
In the warmer parts of the country it will require good judgment in
selecting a suitable place for the seed boxes during germination. One
can be secured by raising some shaded sash above them, in a place
where the aii is not apt to get stagnant. As soon as the seedhngs are
large enough to handle, they should be pricked out in boxes of moder-
ately moist soil, and for sometime only given gentle sprinklings through
a fine rose to prevent wilting. They are put in their Winter quarters by
the beginning of October and given a mulching of rotted manure shortly
afterward. In this way they can be grown in the same beds with low
growing bulbous plants, such as Crocus, Galanthus or Scillas, these
bulbs going out of flower just as the Pansies are coming in, securing a
season of bloom from the time when the snow disappears until very
warm weather, or, in Northern latitudes, all Summer long. In some
parts the plants make suflicient progress before the advent of cool
weather, not only to bloom, but to send up numerous shoots from the
base of the plant. This is a good opportunity to select cuttings of the
finest forms to raise seed from. Take those cuttings having a small
piece of solid stem; put in sand, treating them as cool as possible. As
soon as rooted place in boxes of light soil and Winter in frames, plant-
ing out as soon as weather will permit. It should be borne in mind
that plants put out in the Fall always give the best results in Spring.
Pansies to Flower in Frames— If sown early enough and potted off
the seedhngs will show the colors before planting and thus enable the
grower to select those which are best for selhng. These should be
planted in a frame facing south so that they will catch all of the sun-
shine available during the Winter months. If pinched back frequently it
will induce the plants to make bushy growth before freezing weather;
then mulch with leaf soil or old manure, giving air whenever the
weather will allow. They will throw up an amazing quantity of bloom
early in the season, which will pay to cut with the foliage attached so
that good long stems can be secured. Pansy seed should be sown in
very shallow boxes. The plants delight in a low temperature and a
