BEDDING PLANTS. 83
soil which is open enough to enable the small succulent roots to ramify
freely through it. It is not necessary to have the soil largely of vegetable
huinus; one that answers well may be made up as follows: Screen
some soil through a No. 8 sieve; the rough material which does not go
through the meshes put through a No. 3 sieve. This, mixed with leaf
soil, to one-third of its bulk, will insure a good germination. The idea
is to keep the roots in a healthy growing, state with abundance of air
around the seed leaves to prevent damping off. Pansies do better out-
side during Winter than most people suppose. Planted early with a
little mulching, and if the weather gets very severe, some old stable
bedding thrown over them, will give all the protection necessary. For
plants for Spring sales the seed may be sown late and Wintered in cold
frames, or it may be sown early in the Spring; but the most satisfactory
plants are obtained from early sowing.
Tufted Pansies— These are what the Scotch florists up to within a few
years ago called bedding Violas; but as Pansies, tufted Pansies
and Violets are all members of the genus Viola, the use of the generic
name for any one section of the genus has generally been discarded.
The tufted varieties are hybrids from V. cornuta, V. lutea and V. trico-
lor. They spread at the root much more than the ordinary Pansies do,
making a great mass of flowers, especially in cool chmates, for the
greater part of the Summer. After Pansies having become so popular
in this country I am afraid the tufted Pansy would have a struggle for
existence in the estimation of the ordinary flower lover. Although in
the tufted Pansies there ,is a greater diversity of color, more graceful
flowers, and the plants are very floriferous, the flowers are much smaller
than in the ordinary Pansy, and it is a question if they would become
popular.
PELARGONIUn-(This genus includes the bedding Geranium). Cut-
tings are rooted during the end of September or first half of October,
according to locahty. Plants that are well developed without being
drawn are best for supplying cuttings. The usual method is to put
each cutting in a thumb pot and stand these close together for the time
being in a frame or cool house. Leaf mould, sand and loam in equal
parts will answer as a soil. Give one watering, enough to moisten the
soil; subsequent waterings will be necessary only when it gets dry.
Take the cutting immediately under a joint and shorten back the large
leaf blades one half. By the end of the year they should be shifted into
3-inch pots, using stronger soil, and a month or six weeks later the
plants will give a batch of cuttings which may be potted hke the first
lot. A hot, stagnant atmosphere must be avoided at all times. A sav-
ing of time and space may be accomplished, together with providing
equally fine plants, if the old method of propagation be adhered to.
This consists in putting the cuttings, made with the leaf blades short-
ened somewhat, into boxes pretty thickly together, standing the boxes
outside, partly shaded from the sun until they root. Little water is
given during the operation, and heavy rains are to be guarded against
by having sash ready to cover the plants. The soil used should be such
as to enable the rooted cuttings to thrive in it until January when they
