BEDDIXG PLANTS. 85
are potted up. If kept on the dry side they will bear considerable
cold, and will be prevented from making too rapid growth. By this
method there should l)e no necessity for putting in a second batch of
cuttings from the tops of the first lot. Give this method a trial on a
small scale, until familiar with its working.
Ivy=Ieaved Section— The stems of these are not so succulent as those
of the Zonales, and should be rooted in the sand bed. Old plants potted
up after being cut back will give abundant material for propagation.
Fancy Pelargoniums are of no service for bedding, as they have only
a short flowering period. In this latitude they are never seen at their
best, and it hardly pays to grow them. In the Northern States they do
better. Cuttings should be put in early, and kept in a growing condi-
tion from the start. Large plants are secured by reducing the balls of
)ne or two-year old plants and repotting.
PENTAS CARNEA— More familiar as a stove plant than for bedding
purposes. In the warmer parts of the country, however, it will give
three months of rather showy bloom. Treat the cuttings similarly to
those of Lantana.
PERISTROPHE ANQUSTIFOLIA— A rather loose growing, but dwarf
and finely variegated plant, useful for vases and baskets. Propagate
in Spring from lifted plants.
PETUNIAS— It is always advisable to sow the best strains of tha
double Petunia seed, as the majority of the seedlings will furnish all the
single flowered plants necessary for ordinary use. The doubles can
easily be picked out from the singles before the flowering period. They
are known by their stocky appearance, the singles having a decidedly
annual look shortly after the seedling stage has been passed. In
order to prevent washing of the soil after the seed is sown, use boxes,
say 3 inches deep; put a shallow layer of sphagnum in the bottom,
make the soil firm, give a watering sufficient to wet the soil through;
then when the surface will admit of the operation roughen it with the
ends of the fingers. Sow the seed thinly and smooth the surface with
the end of a cigar box without covering with soil. A pane of glass or a
piece of damp cloth placed over the box will prevent a too rapid evap-
oration of the moisture till the seeds have germinated. They may be
sown during the first part of February.
PHLOX DRUMHONDII— The numerous varieties of this popular flower
should be sown by the middle of February. The single whites and reds
are most in demand. In sowing cover the seeds with sphagnum rubbed
through a No. 4 sieve. In a moderate temperature they will germinate
inside of a week. After the seedlings are large enough they should be
pricked off into boxes from which they should be transferred to pots
later in the season. When put in pots during the seedling stage they are
^pt to throw up flowering stems, and become hard before suflBcient
growth has been formed. For late flowering plants a batch of seed may
be sown beginning of May ; these will be of most service if white varie-
ties are selected.
