BEDDING PLANTS. 87
PLUMBAGO CAPENSIS is usually treated as a greenhouse plant. It
blooms after midsummer on the current years growth. Our warm
Summers are very favorable to its growth out-of-doors, and it certainly
ought to be largely grown for this purpose, as there is no other plant
which can supply the color (light blue) so abundantly. Plants from
Fall struck cuttings will be large enough by planting out time to fill 4-
inch pots, and they ought to be planted out from this size for early
blooming, as younger plants are too apt to make growth instead of
flower. The best flowering plan^^ are those which have been wintered
over in a dormant state, the larger the better; by midsummer they are
a solid mass of bloom. There is a white flowered form which goes well
with the blue one, but this should not be confounded with P. zeylanica
—a worthless species.
RICINUS (Castor Bean)— This grows, according to variety, from 5 to
15 feet in height. R. zanzibarensis, a green-leaved form, continues
growing all Summer and does not even ripen its seeds in this locality.
R. Gibsoni has blood-red foliage. The seeds should be sown beginning
of April in small pots, as they form a large mass of roots quickly after
germinating.
SALVIA SPLENDENS, the scarlet Sage, is the most used of this exten-
sive genus for bedding purposes. Young plants are raised early in
Spring from cuttings taken from lifted and headed back plants. S.
marmorata, S. Wm. Bedman, S. alba and S. Mrs. Stevens are all well-
known kinds.
SANCHEZIA NOBILIS puts on a very rampant growt!i when placed
out-of-doors in rich soil. Although a bed of Cannas may look best by
themselves, a border is often wanted of some other plant; this species
will answer well for such a purpose. Good-sized cuttings root very
freely. They may be wintered in 3-inch pots in a moderately warm
house.
SANTOLINA INCANA— Although a perfectly hardy, dwarf shrub, it is
frequently used for Summer effects in carpet bedding. It can be rooted
any time before frost, in boxes of sand kept in a cool, close frame, or
from old plants wintered in a frame. Cuttings may be secured in Spring.
SWAINSONA— Not only is this plant useful for Winter blooming, but
early struck cuttings grown in well-drained soil will flower well in Sum-
mer. Old cut back plants which have flowered during the previous
Winter will also supply an abundance of bloom when planted out.
STROBILANTHES DYERIANUS— This species, especially in a young
state, has foliage suggestive of some of the highly -colored Bertolonias.
Lts treatment should be similar to that given the Coleus, so far as
wintering and propagating are concerned. When planted out in the full
sun, the leaves are apt to have a washed-out appearance, especially on
old plants. A situation having partial shade is best.
TAQETES— Some of the Mexican species are useful for late blooming.
In the open border they are among the last plants in flower. The im-
