88 BEDDING PLANTS.
proved kinds may be sown in a gentle hotbed and transplanted to where
they are to bloom.
VERBENAS — The varieties of these used to be kept true to name, the
plants lifted in the Fall and cuttings taken in early Spring. Seeds can
now be depended upon to furnish the finest flowering plants. They
should be sown in February and the seedlings potted as soon as large
enough. Pinching should be done early to make the plants branch and
have them in bloom by planting-out time.
V. venosa, an herbaceous species, with heads of purple flowers, is
hardy in the Middle States. It may be raised from seed sown at the
same period as the garden varieties, or from division of the roots in the
early part of April.
TORENIA FOURNIERI is none too common yet as a half-hardy annual.
Although it will germinate outside it takes too long a time in blooming.
Owing to the color of the flowers (different shades of violet) it is desira-
ble, as bedding plants of that color are not plentiful. Sow indoors mid-
dle of March and allow the seedhngs to gain a considerable headway
before potting. T. asiatica and T. Bailloni are well suited for basket or
vase work, as they are of a procumbent habit. T. Fournieri is of erect
growth.
TROP^EOLUM (Indian Cress)— With the exception of the double-flowered
forms, which are i^erpetuated by cuttings, those varieties commonly
grown are raised annually from seeds. The seed must not be sown too
early, because they make rapid progress, and are apt to produce spin-
dling growth in small pots. T. majus and dwarf forms and T. Lobbi-
anum are well known and useful as climbers, or for planting in beds.
All of them are quite tender, and should be put out rather late.
VINCA ROSEA— The Madagascar Periwinkle should be sown about
the beginning of January, to have fair-sized plants by the beginning of
May. Sow the seed thinly, and when large enough prick off into boxes.
From these the seedlings may be shifted into 3-inch pots, from which
they are transferred to the open ground. There are three kinds which
come true from seed, one with rose-colored flowers, one pure white, and
the third has white flowers with pink center. They are among the most
satisfactory of bedding plants.
ZINNIAS— Very gaudy flowering annuals of the Daisy family. The
tall-growing kinds have given way to the dwarf and much more showy
varieties. Sow seed about the end of March and prick off into boxes of
rather rich soil. Harden them off in a frame before planting out.
