90
Vase and Basket Plants*
When vases have to be filled with only one kind of plant, hardly
anything will be found more appropriate than the Russelias. The
branches are erect in a young state, eventually becoming drooping. If
the plants are put in a light, rich soil, with abundance of water
during the growing period, they will be in bloom most of the time.
Only one-year-old plants should be used for large vases; that is,
plants in 6 or 7-inch pots, as when of that size they soon become fur-
nished with good-sized brandies. The old and well-known Russelia
juucea is the best for the purpose, although R. sarmentosa and R. Lemoinei
are both good, giving a greater number of flowers, which, however, are
smaller|than those of R. juncea. Among those plants needed for the center
of vases, Pandanus Veitchii and the numerous varieties of the grassy-
leaved species of Cordyline, such as C. australis and C. indivisa, are
among the best. Last years seedlings of the Cordylines, if they have
been liberally treated, will be large enough by the beginning of the sea-
son lor all ordinary purposes. They stand the hot sun well. Pandanus
Veitchii colors well under full sunshine, but needs more water than the
Cordylines. P. Baptistii, of which much was expected as an outdoor
Summer plant, is rather disappointing, as its foliage is too tender for
exposed places. Other good things for vases and baskets, in the shape
oi flowering and trailing plants, are the three species of Torenia, two
purple and one yellow, besides the so-called white variety, and Mau-
randya Barclayana, all of which may be got under way from seed in a
short time; Mesembryanthemum cordifolium, Germany Ivy; all the
trailing Vincas and Abutilon vexillarium are indispensable. The varie-
gateil ground Ivy will stand the sun well in exposed situations; it is
dwarf growing and comes in handy for planting around the edges of
vases and baskets, where its long hanging growths can be seen to
advantage. Stock of it, kept in boxes under the cover of sash, should
be cut up during the early Spring, and small pieces with roots attached
placed in sandy soil in boxes, and either returned to the frame or
brought into a cool house, to be started into growth previous to
potting.
Saxifraga sarmentosa (Aarons Beard) is a very hardy species with
ornamental flowers and foliage. It thrives out-of-doors all tbe year
round in positions partly shaded from the sun. By the first of March
fair-sized plants may be put in 3-inch pots. It is suitable for baskets,
vases and boxes, which do not get much sun. There is a variegated
form with showy foliage.
Senecio scandens (German Ivy)— A few plants struck from cuttings
in the Fall will give growth for a large number of cuttings after the first
of the year.
