92 VASE A}sD BASKET PLAXTS.
Othonna crassifolia ( Little Pickles)— This plaut will stand full sun-
shine with very little water. It is of procumbent growth with, small
yellow flowers. Lift a few old plants before frost, and merely lay them
on the front of a sunny bench. A dozen or two nice little tufts may be
potted up from a single plant.
Lysimachia nummularia, the Money Wort, will thrive in shade or
8un. There is a pretty variety with yellowish leaves.
Ipomaea Tubiculata— With small star-shaped leaves, throws out quan-
tities of lianging growths. Every bit of stem with a leaf attached will
root either in Fall or Spring.
Vinca major var. elegantissima comes in very serviceable, not only for
vases and baskets, but for indoor decoration. Specimens for this pur-
pose should be in 5-inch pots, or even larger. Plants rooted early in
the Fall and kept growing will, in course of time, make very long
growths. A good i)lace for them in this condition of growth is on the
front of a sunny bench, where the growths are allowed to hang over the
side. This plant does not show the effects of neglect as quickly as most
other things.
For Indoor Boxes for Windows or other places where there is not
much light the following plants will be found useful, as they are almost
hardy, and, with ordinary care, they will last a long time in a presenta-
ble condition: Rohdea japonica and the variegated form will stand in
the coldest places. These plants, bj^ the way, are perfectly hardy here,
the foliage being but slightly browned during the coldest weather.
Aspidistra elatior and A. e. variegata, together with the spotted leaved
species called A. punctata, while not so hardy as the Rohdea, yet they will
stand a good deal of cold. Of course, ihe plants will have to be small,
in 5 or 6-inch pots. Old plants broken up for this purpose and immedi-
ately used arc not to be depended upon, as the principal roots are apt to
get severed in the operation. Many of the New Zealand Cordylines,
with narrow green leaves, can be utilized for drafty places; they will
stand considerable frost without hurt if the^^ have been grown cool.
Farfugium grande, a broad-leaved composite with yellow spots, is
another well-known plant which comes through zero weather all right.
Niphobolus lingua corj^mbifera, a tough leaved crested Fern, can be got
up in quantity for use by division of the stems which grow near the
surface of the soil. Lastrea prolifica, a dwarf dark green leaved species;
Lastrea opaca, Pteris serrulata, and Adiantum Capillus- Veneris are all
pretty hardy, as well as ornamental species of Ferns good for the
purpose.
