Vines, Hardy and Tender^
ADENOCALYHNA COHOSUM— This is one of the best tender vines
where it can be given enough head room. If planted out and otherwise
treated according to its requirements, it will make growths 70 feet in
length. It is closely related to the Bignonias. Flowers are bright yel-
low, being borne in large racemes. It blooms in midwinter. Propagated
by cuttings of the ripe wood In late Summer.
AKEBIA QUINATA— Although a climbing plant, and a very hand-
some one, it is frequently grown to answer the same purpose as bush
plants of Jasminum nudiflorum. For this purpose it should be allowed
to ramble over low supports. For trellis work it is well adapted. Al-
though a common plant we seldom see it in fruit, which is probably
accounted for by the fact that the pistillate flowers come into bloom
before the staminate ones, thus preventing fertilization; besides, they
flower at a period when fertilization out-of-doors is a somewhat preca-
rious operation with vines brought from other countries. Its propaga
tion is brought about from cuttings of the current years growth, choos-
ing wood not too thick nor yet the weakest branches. Make the cut-
tings with two or more leaves on them, and place together in a cool
bed; root them in time to be put in a cool frame for the Winter.
AMPELOPSIS VEITCHII and A. ROYLEI differ from each other
only in that the former is the tsmaller of the two in leaf and fruit. A.
Roylei is, perhaps, the more rapid grower of the two. They are both
ideal vines for covering walls, not only for ornamental appearance, but
what is of more importance, in warding off the rain from the walls. It
may be noticed that the foliage is imbricated; that is, the lowest leaves,
the blades of which hang almost perpendicularly, are covered for nearly
half of their length from the base by the ends of the leaves above; thus
the water drips from one to the other instead of being absorbed by the
substance against which the vine grows. Another good reason why it
should be planted much more freely is, that it keeps the sun from the
walls, making quite an appreciable difference in the temperature of the
interior of the dwelling. The fruit may be gathered about the begin-
ning of November, the seeds w^ashed clear of the pulp, and sown in a
frame having a southern exposure. Do not sow thickly as the cotyle-
dons are large, and damping off may result before the seedlings are
transplanted. By the middle of May the seedlings are ready for han-
dling. They may either be put in small pots, singly, or three in a 3-inch
pot, plunged in ashes in a frame, the sash put on and shaded for a few
days until the young plants have taken with the soil. The Ampelopsis,
owing to the nature of the roots, are best transplanted out of pots. A.
Engelmanni, A. diversifolia and A. aconitifolia, all good kinds in their
