A LIST OF THE LAND BIRDS OF SANTA CRIZ
COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
IJv Richard C. McCiRHCOR.
IXTRODrCTlOX.
SOME time ago Mr. \V. Otto Kmenson prepared for publication a
paper under the title of Some of the Birds of Santa Cruz County, Cali-
fornia, including therein observations made during his several collect-
ing trips through the Santa Cruz Mountains. These trips were in vSeptem-
ber, 1883. October and November, 1884, and May, 1S89. In the introduc-
tion he says: "I have gone over this route three different seasons, making
not longer than a three weeks outing at one trip. I found that the bird
life did not vary greatly from the canyons of the upper Los Gatos, Soquel,
Boulder and Bear Creeks to the higher ground of the sunmit which lies
2100 feet above the sea level. One great cause of abundance of bird life
in this range of country is the great variety of timber and brush which
furnishes an abundance of food for insectivorous birds as well as for those
that feed upon fruits and seeds, and which gives them at the same time
shelter during storms and in the nesting season. The timl)er is composed of
hve, black, white, and tan-bark oaks, redwood, narrow-cone pine, creek alder,
maple, sycamore, laurel, madrone and willow, with an undergrowth of what
is known as the wild coffee bush, buckeye and azalea. Chemise, sage,
manzanita. and mountain mahogany are found only around the top of
Loma Prieta. In the deep, dark canyons not so much bird hfe was found
as I expected nor as was noted in the more open and higher places. As
it was the migration season I looked for many stragglers moving southward
in September and early November. Of the 1 18 species here given, 97 were
found breeding, leaving only 21 as visitants from other localities and a
number of these no doubt would have been found nesting later on."
In 1898 Mr. Henry B. Kaeding spent a month in the Santa Cruz Moun-
tains and presented before the Cooper Ornithological Club a paper on Sonic
Summer Birds of Santa Cruz County. Concerning his list Mr. Kaeding
says: "The following notes were taken during one month's stay — from
May 1 to June i — upon the top of lien Lomond Mountain, Santa Cruz
County, at an altitude of 2300 feet, and eight miles west of Boulder Creek.
No species are recorded except such as came actually under my observa-
tion and were positively identified. While undoubtedly many species in-
habit this region besides those noted here, the following are all that can
be vouched for bv the writer. The list comj^rises sixty-six genera, em-
