2 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA [No. 2.
bracing eighty species and subspecies. No attempt has been made to re-
cord otiier than land birds."
It has been suggested that, for publication, these two lists be combined
and this is the part which I have undertaken. In most cases I have quot-
ed in full from the above lists, crediting the author in each instance with
his respective notes.
In March, 189S, Mr. T. J. Hoover and I spent two weeks just north of
Santa Cruz and in July of the same year Mr. Hoover collected near the
same locality. Notes made on these trips are here incorporated.
The original plan was to use only these manuscript notes but I think
it desirable to include such published notes as are at hand and I trust the
result is a fairly complete list of the land birds of Santa Cruz County. The
pre.-ent list is of local interest only, l)Ut it is l.oped that it may be cf as-
sistance to those engaged in faunal work and form a foundation for a
future and more complete exposition of the vSanta »^ruz avifauna.
Of the published lists, one by Skirm,' enumerating eighty-four land
and thirteen water birds and one by McGregor and Fiske,Miave been
used extensively in the present paper. Belding's Land Birds^^ has supplied
notes on numerous species of the region and a paper by J. (i. Ccoper-^ has
furnished dates of migration and of nesting.
Any notes in the text of the present paper which are credited to Mc-
Gregor and Fiske or to either of them are from their published list. While
the identifications of the species in that list are reliable, we wish to disclaim
all responsibility for the numerous typographical errors, as it was printed
without any proof reaching our hands.
Our list included notes made by me at vSanta Cruz during the summer
and fall of 1888 and the summers of 1889 and 1S91, as well as notes c( 1-
lected by Fiske during a continued residence in the county of five years.
The scientific nomenclature of the present ]raper is that rcconunended
by the American Ornithologists' Union with such additional nrmes as have
been published since the date of the last supplement to the A. O. U. check-
list. The trivial names are in most instances from the same checklist.
I am greatly indebted to Mr. Joseph Grinnell for a.'sistance on tlie sci-
entific names of this list, and to Mr. Walter K. Fisher for the following
description of the Santa Cruz region.
1 List of Birds of Santa Cruz Co., Cal. by Joseph Skirm, Ornilhologist and Oo/ogisi. IX; iS8^. pp. 149, 150.
2 Annotated I^ist of the I,and and Water Birds of Santa Cruz County. Cahiornia by R. C. McGregor and
E. H. Fiske. Originally published in the History of Santa Cruz County and reprinted in the Natural
History of Santa Cruz County Pacific Press Publishing Company, Oakland, Cal. (Nodate, about 1892.,)
3 Land Birds of the Pacific District by I.yman Belding. Occas. Papers Cal. Acad. Sci. II; 1830.
4 On the Migrations and Nesting Habits of West Coast Birds by J. G. Cooper, M. D. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,
Jan. 20, 1S80, pp. 241-251.
