Ma}^ 1 90 1.] LAND BIRDS OF SANTA CRUZ COUNTY. II
55. Pica nuttalli And. Yellow-billed Magpie.
Regarding this species, Dr. C. L. Anderson of Santa Cruz writes me:
"Has not been seen in this county, as far as I know, for twenty-five years.
I saw a few myself the first year of my residence here about 1870. I can-
not say it resides here now." The magpie probably occurs within the
county on the San Benito River, below Sargents.
56. Cyanocitta stelleri carbonacea 6^;'zV/«<?//.' Coast Jay.
This form has been recorded usually as/ro/iia/is, though Kaeding was
inclined to refer it to stelleri and Fisher gives it as stelleri from Mon-
terey. ^ I have long considered it distinct, but had no good examples of
stelleri for comparison. Fortunately Grinnell has been able to point out
the differences and name the race. Fiske.— The Coast Jay is a resident of
the redwoods. A nest with three eggs found May 21, 1890. was very
large, built in the fork of a tan-bark oak, fifteen feet from the ground.
The exterior of the nest was of twigs and small roots, intermixed with
mud; the lining was of root fibres. Kaeding. — Common; breeds. A com-
parison between the jays of the Coast Range and of the Sierra Nevada
show the birds of the coast to be decidedly referable to the form stelleri,
and not frontalis as is commonly supposed. While far from typical of C.
stelleri, the prevailing characters are of that race and are more pronounced
in birds from Marin county than in those from Monterey county. Emer-
son. — Common all through the forest ranges. Very shy; has a habit of
alighting on the lower limbs of the trees, then gradually going to the top
from one limb to another.
57. Aphelocoma californica ( Vig.). California Jay.
Emerson.— Not as common in the forest as the preceding, but like
them great robbers of woodpeckers' store of acorns. Kaeding. — Very
common; young out of the nest May 10.
58. Corvus corax sinuatus ( Wagl.). Raven.
Emerson gives the raven as rarely seen and Skirm gives it as rare. 3
59. Corvus americanus Ajid. Crow.
Recorded from the southeastern part of the county by Fiske. Kaed-
ing saw but one. It was seen but once by Emerson, who says, on the
autlicrity of Cooper, that it w£S quite common at Santa Cruz in 1S66 in
the willows along the river bottoms.
60. Agelaius gubernator californicus Nelson. Bicolored Blackbird.
Kaeding found the red-wing not common but breeding. Skir n gives
it as a common resident. Cooper says: "According to my observations this
species inhabits chiefly the interior of the State, Santa Cruz being the only
point on the coast where I have seen them."'*
61. Agelaius tricolor (.7/^ a'.). Tricolored Blackbird.
Emerson. — This and the preceding are common about swamp holes
I. Condor, II; 1900, p. 127.
-•. A'. A. Fauna. No. 7, p. 68.
5. Belding, op. cit.. p. 112.
4. Belding. op. cit.. p. 121.
