May T9OI.] LAND BIRDS Ol- SANTA CRUZ COl'XTY. 13
71. Astragalinus lawrencei (C«^^.)- Lawrence (ioldtliKli.
Emerson. — Noticed one near the Big Tree Grove at Felton. Nesting
in live oaks May i8, 1889. McGregor and Fiske. — Abundant summer res-
ident about vSanta Cruz.
72. Spinus pinus ( Wils.). Pine Siskin.
A pair of siskins was taken in March by Hoover and I. Kaeding. —
Throughout all of May siskins were abundant in small Hocks. The ovaries
were developed. Emerson. — On reaching the large pine grove at the top
of the ridge up from the river bottom of the San Lorenzo near Felton, my
companion and I noticed a siskin near the roadside gathering bits of dead,
dry grass. Soon it flew, with its mate following, to the end of a long pine
limb where there was a nest some forty feet up and ten feet or more from
the body of the tree.
73. Ammodramus sandwichensis alaudinus iBo)iap.). Western Savanna
Sparrow.
.Kaeding. — A few seen June i.
74. Ammodramus sandwichensis bryanti Ridgw. Bryant Marsh Sparrow.
In March Hoover and I found this bird in flocks with the Western
vSavanna Sparrow and I have taken numerous specimens in late summer,
from the marshes along the San Lorenzo River where it undoubtedly
breeds as both young and worn adults were secured. limerson. — Not un-
common al)out the hclds south of Santa Cruz.
75. Chondestes grammacus strigatus {Swains.). Western Lark Sparrow.
Found breeding near vSanta Cruz by McGregor and Fiske. Emer-
son. — Noticed near F>lton, around habitations. Kaeding — Not common;
breeds.
76. Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli Rido7c.^ Nuttall Sparrow.
This and the golden-crown we found abundant in March. The
species breeds about Santa Cruz. Emerson — Noticed sparingly all
through the mountains, but it was more plentiful near the coast about
thick bushes. Skirm — Common; stays the whole year in the low brush
along the beach; begins to breed about April 25; eggs from three to four;
raises two, possibly three broods in a season. «
77. Zonotrichia coronata {Pall.). Golden-crowned Sparrow.
F;merson observed this species once in November, 1884, at Wright
Station.
78. Zonotrichia albicollis {C.viel.). White-throated Sjjarrow.
Breninger records taking a male peabody at Santa Cruz on January
r, 1894, and seeing another later.3
79. Spizella socialis arizonae 6'<w<;'.v. Western Chijjping Sparrow.
Emerson. — Observed only about the gardens and small orchards near
the mountain residences. Kaeding, — Fairly common; breeds. Skirm. —
Tolerably common summer resident.*
1. Ridgway, Auk Xl'I; 1899, p. 36.
2. Belding, o/> f;V., ^. 151.
3. Bull. Cooper Ornith. Club, I; 1899, P- 93-
4. Beldiug, op. cit., p. 155.
