14 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA [Xo. 2.
80. Junco hyemalis pinosus (^Loomis). Point Pinos Junco.
I believe the authority for this race should stand in parentheses as
above and a line he added to the reference in the check-list:
Junco hyemalis pinosus A. O. U. Co.^ni. 6th Sup.
Fiske took a nest containing four fresh eggs on Ma}- 17, 1891, which
was placed on the ground under a vine. The nest was of dry grass, lined
with hair and a few feathers. Hoover and I saw several juncos late in
March above the Big Creek power house and about the dam. Hoover
took the species at Santa Cruz in July. Emerson. — I take this to be the
breeding Junco of this range of mountains. I see no difference between
these birds and those from the type localit\'. It is not a common bird at
any place in the mountains. Downy and fully feathered young were
seen on May 13, i88g, and a nest of three w'ell incubated eggs taken was
placed on the ground in a slight hollow at the foot of a bunch of grass.
The nesting site was on a steep hillside above an old logging road. The
nest was composed of redwood and other leaves, lined with fine dead
grass and a few cow hairs and compactly built. Both birds came close
about me, the female being very much concerned about her treasures, and
coming within two feet of my hand. The eggs are similar to others of
this genus in color, being greenish-white, marked all over with reddish-
brown, much like eggs of the Field Sparrow. I have shot at Hay wards in
early July young in nesting plumage, but know of no place nearer than
twenty-five miles w^here they are likely to be found l)reeding. Kaeding.
— Very common. Young birds were flying by May 25 and fresh eggs
were found on June i. All my specimens and some taken by Slevin be-
low Monterey are undoubtedly referable to pinosus. Cooper. — Resident
in mountains. Nests at foot of Santa Cruz Mountains, May i; at 3000
feet altitude nested May 30, 1864.^
81. Amphispiza belli (^Cass.). Bell Sparrow.
Emerson. — Seen once around the summit of Loma Prieta in the thick
chemise. No doubt it nests there.
82. Melospiza melodia samuelis {Baird). Samuels Song Sparrow.
Rather abundant near the coast in the marshy localities where it is
resident, I think. Secured by myself and Mr. Hoover. Emerson. — Met
with near the coast. The species of this genus will ahvays be difficult to
separate, for no defined line can be laid down on account of the peculiar
formation of the coast country. ^yi^\Q2X samuelis is found only on the salt
marshes, while inland and higher up it approaches heermanni.^
83. Melospiza melodia rufina {Bonap.). Sooty Song Sparrow.
"Mr. Bailey took a specimen of this subspecies at Boulder Creek, Cal-
ifornia, on October 13, 1891, and stated that it was common there. "3
I. Proc. Nat. Mus , 1880, p. 246.
2 Some of the wintei song sparrows found in the Santa Cruz Mountains may best be referred to heer-
nianni. My series from the coast, however, show no approach to that race. In reply to my request that he
again examine his birds, Emerson says: "I find that the Santa Cruz bird is var. ,va?H;/<'//i, and believe all
from that county may be considered the same until more material is in hand."
3. N. A. Fauna, No. 7. p. 100.
