20 PACIFIC COAST AVIFAUNA [NO. 2.
McGregor and Fiske. — The winter wren is a resident about Santa Cruz
where we took an example.
123. Cistothorus palustris paludicola /?«/;-«'. Tule Wren.
A rare summer resident. Fiske collected five well incubated eggs on
July 8, 1 89 1. No false nests were observed.
124. Certhia familiaris occidentalis Ridgw. California Creeper.
Hoover took a specimen near Santa Cruz in June and I shot at a
creeper on Big Creek late in March. Kaeding records the creeper as not
common. Emerson. — Rarely seen at any time throughout the range. Two
specimens were taken Sept. 12, 1884, and others seen at the summit. An
old nest was found behind a .slit of bark of a redwood tree, some five feet
from the ground, near the summit between Soquel and Wright's. The
nest was composed of shredded redwood' bark, soft and silky, lined with
birds' feathers. Ready has taken their eggs near Santa Cruz.
125. Sitta carolinensis aculeata (G?.y.s-.). Slender billed Nuthatch.
Emenson. — Not common at any time. Noticed more in the oaks than
in other trees.
126. Sitta pygmaea Vig. Pygmy Nuthatch.
Emerson. — This species is not as common throughout the Iccality vis-
ited as in the Monterey range, where it can be seen as.sociating with the
warblers, titmice, and chickadees. Ingersoll. — I saw about a dozen here-
It is quite rare.^
127. Parus inornatus Gamb. Plain Titmouse.
W. A. Cooper found a set of four eggs, incubated about five days, in a
hollow oak limb, five feet from the ground. This set was taken near Wat-
sonville April 4, 1877.* Emerson. — Seen in the vicinity of oaks, rain or
shine.
128. Parus rufescens barlowi <S>z>z;/^//.3 Barlow Chickadee.
The chickadee is an abundant resident near Santa Cruz where Fiske
took fresh eggs April 12. Kaeding found it abundant about Ben Lomond
where eggs collected May 6 were two-thirds incubated.
129. Chamaea fasciata intermedia GrhmellA Intermediate Wren-Tit.
Hoover found the wren-tit fairly common at Santa Cruz in July, and
Kaeding reports it as breeding abundantly on Ben Lomond in May. Em-
erson saw it but rarely and then only in the thick bramble and bush.
130. Psaltriparus minimus californicus Ridgw. California Bush-Tit.
Fiske and I found the bush-tit to be an abundant summer resident
about Santa Cruz where I have taken it in March, 1898. Kaeding found
it very common on Ben Lomond. Emerson speaks of the species as com-
mon among the willow and wild lilac bushes, going in large flocks in the
fall.
1. Belding, op. cit., p. 239.
2. Bull. Nutt. Ornith. Club, III; 1S7S. p. 6y.
3. Condor, II; 1900, p. 227.
4. Ibid, p. 85.
