NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3
ly rounded on the posterior margin ; anterior margin rather straight, some-
what curved, convex at the middle of the stigma, apex quite broadly rounded,
the wide wedge-shaped base not extending beyond the middle ; stigmatic
nervure nearly straight, terminating in the centre of the apex, not visible at
either end. The discoidal within the middle of the wing, not visible at its
outer end, somewhat convex anteriorly, its branch hyaline at its extremities :
stigma honey yellow, darkest on the costal margin, the apical end lanceo-
late; inwardly extending to the base of the wing, all the costal space being
of the same color. Posterior wing, one longitudinal vein and no discoidal.
Tibia? and tarsi with a few scattering hairs ; claws paleish horn-colored, with
blackish tips. Antenna? four-jointed, sublinear, 1st and 2d short and thick,
the others long, the third on a narrow pedicel, which may be a small joint,
fourth clavate. Length to tip of wings -07 inch ; body about -025 inch long.
Female much resembling the "grape leaf louse," (D? vitifoliee), but smaller,
the dull pointed promuscis blackish at the extremity; eyes of few (about
five) facets.
Eggs similar to those of the "grape leaf louse." Smaller and of a deeper
yellow.
Pupa of male orange-yellow, sometimes inclined to greenish; undeveloped
wings pale yellow; body somewhat elongate; abdomen pointed; antennae
linear, three-jointed, 1st thick, subglobose ; 2d smaller, short, thick; 3d very
long, clavate, obliquely pointed, without a spine at the apex, a spine on the
inner side of the first and second joints.
Gall variable in size, often numerous in the parenchyma of the leaf, others
on the veins and leafstalks, all opening on the lower side of the leaf, with a
very small orifice; smoothish, of a somewhat leathery structure, pale yellow-
ish-green, glaucus or dark green; subglobose or sometimes somewhat irregu-
lar, without any of the mealy sugary dust within, which is common in galls
of the Aphis family.
There is apparently a disposition among some authors to create separate
species out of the insects inhabiting galls thus variable, according to their size
and location. The small subglobular galls, about -09 -14 in. in diameter, in
the plane of the leaf, and about -04 -06 in. in a perpendicular direction through
it, are often very abundant, and when quite full of ' eggs I have counted
about 50 ; the young larva usually leaves the gall as soon as hatched, and
proceeds, as does the " grape leaf louse " (D? vitifolim), to construct anew
gall ; sometimes these small galls contain several females, but I have never
found males in them ; the male-producing galls are larger, of various sizes,
up to \ of an inch or even more in diameter. During the summer and autumn
and former years, I have examined many of these galls, some of them are
globular, others somewhat irregular. In my original studies I took notes of
them as distinct species ; they were on the leaf-stalks, veins, and in the pa-
renchyma, occasionally near the border of the leaf, most frequently in the
parenchyma of the leaf, close to the veins and midribs, so that at first view 1
was led to believe that they were originally formed in the latter, but upon
dissection I found them usually entirely in the parenchyma, the gall freely
separating from the veins ; these were filled with eggs, larva, pupa, and
imago.
The winged males were numerous, but, as the weather then was very wet,
they were in an extremely bad condition, their wings adhering to the walls
of the galls and to their own bodies from the excessive dampness in the galls ;
but among the hundreds observed I saw a number of perfect specimens.
Subsequently, in more pleasant weather, I examined several dark green, more
perfectly globular galls, located as those observed before, with a good supply
of winged specimens in perfect condition. I made careful examination and
notes as before, and found that they agreed with the former precisely and.
compared favorably with the former dried specimens ; and furthermore. I
made a careful microscopic examination of the larva in comparison with
1867.]
