134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
5. Lynx rufus, Rafinesque, var. maculatus.
Several specimens. Of frequent occurrence, particularly in the vicinity of
Fort Whipple.
CANIDJE.
6. Canis latrans, Say. (C.frustror, Woodhouse.)
Numerous specimens. The most abundant of the larger mammals of the
Territory, and very generally distributed. It is particularly numerous in the
vicinity of the settlements, and very annoying. A umbers may be readily de-
stroyed by poison, as is frequently done. The pelage in winter is fuller and
softer than in summer, and chiefly black and grayish-white, losing the tawny
and rufous which it has in the latter season. Reproduction occurs in May or
June, rive or six young being ordinarily brought forth, in rocky, secluded
places. The species is frequently precluded from indulging its carnivorous
tastes, and compelled to subsist, in great measure, upon fruits and berries.
7. Canis occidentals, Rich., var. griseo-albus.
Several specimens, taken at Fort Whipple in winter, are referrible to this
variety. The skins make very beautiful robes. No black or tawny individuals
were observed. The species is generally distributed over the Territory, though
by no means so abundant as the preceding.
8. Vclpks virginianus, Richardson.
Three examples. The species is of common occurrence. No red foxes were
met with. V. macrourus and V. velox may possibly be found in the Territory.
TJRSIDM.
9. Ursus horribius, Ord.
One specimen, a quarter-grown cub, killed with its dam in the San Francisco
Mountains. The species is of common occurrence in that locality.
RODENTIA.
SCIURIDJE.
10. Sciurfs Abertii, Woodhouse.
S. dorsalis, Woodhouse. (Pre-occupied.)
S. castanonotus, Baird. (Without ear-tufts.)
Three specimens, San Francisco Mountains. A large and very beautiful
species, abundant, and a characteristic of the pine-covered mountainous por-
tions of the Territory.
11. Sciurus Arizonensis, n. s., Coues, Am. Naturalist, i., 1867, p. 357.
One specimen, Fort Whipple, Dec. 20, 1865 ; type of the species as described
1. c. No other examples met with. A gray squirrel, resembling the common
Eastern species, but smaller, the tail longer and broader, and distinctly tricolor
below.
In addition to the two preceding species S. Frtmonlii, And. and Bach., is
believed to occur; and 5. fossor, Peale, from California, may possibly reach
the Colorado Valley.
12. Tamias dorsams, Baird.
Numerous examples. An abundant species throughout the Territory.
Closely allied to, but readily distinguishable from the other recognized species.
It lives chiefly, or wholly, in rocky, broken localities.
13. SPBEMOPHiLrja Beichbyi, Cuvier.
Two examples. This species ranges into Arizona from California, but is
there by no means so abundant as in the Last mentioned region, where, in a
measure, it represents the prairie dog of the plains, both in numbers and in
habits, and proves a great pest to the tanners.
[Nov.
