NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1S5
Other Arizonian Spermophili are : S. gramm.urus, Say, in the southern por-
tions ; <S\ tereiicauda, Baird, in the lower Colorado Valley ; S. Harrisii, Aud. and
Bach. ; and probably also S. lateralis, spilosoma, Mezicana.
14. Cynomys Gunnisonii, Baird.
One specimen, taken near the San Francisco Mountains, July, 1864. This
rare species was there found living in colonies like those of C. ludovicianus,
only of smaller extent. The general habits of the two appeared very similar.
15. Castor canadensis, Kuhl.
Although no specimens of this animal were actually collected, it was fre-
quently seen, and is included here for the purpose of remarking upon its great
abundance on nearly all the streams of the interior of the Territory. Its pres-
ent numbers are doubtless owing to the fact that, of late years, it has been but
little, if at all, molested by trappers, whom Indian hostilities have prevented
from penetrating to its haunts.
SA COOMY1DJE.
16. Thomomys fulvds (Woodh.) Baird.
Two specimens, Fort Whipple. The most abundant and characteristic spe-
cies of the subfamily Geomyinae, and generally distributed over northern and
central Arizona. It is almost wholly subterranean and nocturnal in habit.
The small piles of soft, moist earth, seen all over the fertile grassy portions of
the Territory, are thrown up by this animal in digging or extending its bur-
rows ; and are particularly numerous in the vicinity of clumps of oak. Two
other species, T. bulbivorus and T. umbrinus probably occur in southern and
western Arizona.
17. Dipodomys Ordii, Woodhouse.
Numerous specimens of this very abundant animal, the "kangaroo rat" of
the inhabitants ; from Fort Whipple and vicinity. This species seems suscepti-
ble of a semi-domestication, like the true Mures; and, together with a species
of Ilesperomys, is very common in the storehouses and granaries of Prescott
and Fort Whipple, where they readily produce their young. Ordinarily it
lives in brush heaps, under fallen logs, etc., as well as under ground. The
young are brought forth fn May and June ; but two or more litters may be
produced, especially when the animals are living in places protected from the
weather. The young are at first nearly gray, showing little of the clear fawn
of the adults. The ordinary mode of progression with these animals is the
same as that of other small rodents ; but the movements upon all-fours are
changed to a series of vigorous leaps when the animals are alarmed.
18. Perognathus flavus, Baird.
One specimen (Fort Whipple) of this rare and diminutive rodent. Two
other species, P parvus and P. penicillatus also occur.
MURID^J.
MURIiNLE. (Sigmodontes.)
19. Hesperomys eremicus, Baird.
Numerous specimens, both old and young, determined to be this species by
Prof. Baird. It is the characteristic species of the vicinity of Fort Whipple,
where it is semi-domesticated, and, in a measure, plays the part of the house
mouse, living and breeding in numbers in buildings. Several other closely
allied species of this difficult genus probably also occur, as well as one or
two of the genus Reithrodon.
20. Neotoma mexicana, Baird.
Several examples. A very common species throughout the Territory, living
indifferently under ground or rocks, in brush heaps, or in low scrubby trees.
It is an important article of food with the Indians.
1867.]
