136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Among the true Mures, or " Old World rats," two species have been im-
ported into the settlements along the Colorado River, Mus decumanus and M.
mut cuius. Apparently, however, they have as yet hardly penetrated to the in-
terior of the Territory.
ARVICOLINJ3.
21. Arvicola ?
Fragments of an undetermined species, taken from the stomach of a large
hawk, shot at Whipple. The genus appears to be very poorly represented in
the number of its individuals as well as of its species.
22. Fiber zibethiccs, Cuvier.
Skins, sewn together to make arrow-cases, taken from the Apache" Indians.
The species seems to be common on some of the waters of the Territory.
LEPORIDJE.
23. Lepus callotis, Wagler.
Three specimens, Fort Whipple. The "jackass rabbit," as the species is
called, is very abundant throughout the Territory. Believed to be the only
large hare ascertained to inhabit the Territory, though the occurrence of one
or two other species, particularly L. Californicus, may be anticipated.
24. Lepus Artemisia. Bachman.
One specimen, Beall's Springs, Western Arizona. A very abundant species
throughout the Territory. In the northern portions, at least, it changes its
pelage somewhat in winter, losing in great measure the tawny or fulvous, and
becoming of a grayish hue. with some parts nearly white. Such a change has
not been observed to take place with L. callotis.
25. Erethizon kpixanthds, Brandt.
One specimen, from the Colorado Chiquito, a locality where the species seems
to be particularly abundant.
RUMINANTIA.
CER VIDJE.
26. Cervus macrotis, Say.
One skin of a doe, taken in October, when the summer coat has been re-
placed by that of winter. The latter is thicker and fuller, and of a much more
uniform mouBe-gray. At this season the antlers of the males are well-grown.
They differ in some essential points from those of C. virginianus. These deer
inhabit the open woods and chapparal. A second species, known to hunters
as the "white-tailed deer," occurs but rarely. The black-tailed still continues
to be very abundant in all situations suited to its habits ; and its flesh and hide
are important items m the domestic economy of both settlers and Indians.
27. Antilocapra Americana, Ord.
Several pairs of horns, and skins of the head, stuffed by the Indians to be
used as decoys. Both the present species and the black-tailed deer are
hunted by the Indians by this means. One pair of horns, taken near Fort
Whipple, are remarkable for the great breadth of the prong, which springs
from the extreme base of the shaft, and for the unusual degree of apical curva-
ture of the latter ; the tip being bent over until it points directly toward the
base of the horn, and its axis is brought quite parallel with that of the upright
portion. The antelope is still common on all the open plains of the central
and northern portions.
28. Ovia Montana, Cuvier.
Horns of this species were often met with about the bases of cliffs and
precipices. The animal appears to lie much less abundant now than formerly,
and only inhabits the mosl rugged and inaccessible mountainous region-.
The uuiialo (Boa americantu,) which formerly inhabited the Territory, has
for many years been quite extinct.
[Nov.
