NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.
139
of a post-pliocene deposit in the neighborhood, which has not been hitherto
recognized.
In the miocene region, the beds of shells are of considerable thickness, and
are composed of immense numbers of closely packed individuals of many spe-
cies, in a very good state of preservation. They are, however, less silicified,
and therefore more friable than those of the great beds at Yorktown.
The before-mentioned collection, which is now in the museum of the Acad-
emy, contained the following species of molluscs, etc., for the identilication of
which I am indebted to my friend T. A. Conrad :
Madrepora palmata Gold/.,
Orbicula lugubris,
Ostrea trachydiscus, Con., sp. nov.
Ostrea thomasii, Con., sp. nov.,
Anomia multilineata,
Chama corticosa,
Isognomon tortum,
Pinna,
Pecten madisonius,
Pecten jeftersonius,
Pecten humphreysii,
Pecten marylandicus,
Pecten clintonius,
Pecten virginianus,
Pecten cerinus, Con., sp. nov.,
Axiuaea lentiformis,
Area callipleura,
Area improcera,
Noetia carolinensis,
Corbula idonea,
Corbula pectorosa, Con., sp. nov.,
Cardium laqueatum,
Isocardia markoii,
Isocardia fraterna,
Crasatella undulata,
Crasatella melina,
Crasatella marylandica,
Cyclocardia granulata,
Carditamera protracta,
Astarte exaltata,
Astarte undulata,
Astarte cuneiformis,
Astarte perplaha,
Mercenaria staminea,
Mercenaria cuneata, Con., sp. nov.,
Luciua americana,
Lucina foremani,
Lucina contracta,
Dosinia acetabulum,
Dione staminea,
Dione marilandica,
Pliorhytis centenaria,
Sphserula subvexa,
Metis biplicata,
Glycimeris americanus,
Fissurella redimicula,
Zizyphinus bryanii, Con., sp. nov.,
Lunatia catenoides,
Scala pachy pleura, C,
Turritella indenta, C,
Turritella alticostata,
Ecphora quadricostata,
Bursa centrosa, Con., sp. nov.,
Balanus vulcanellus, Con., sp. nov.,
Balanus proteus.
ELASMOBRANCHI.
AETOBATIS, Mull., Henle.
Aetobatis arcuatus, Agassiz, Poiss. Foss. iii. Gervais, Palseont. Francaise,
Tab.
This species, figured by Gervais, has existed in abundance during the period
of deposit of the miocene beds. Two or three other species of the genus have
left their remains in the same, which will be characterized at some future time.
Aetobatis profundus Cope, sp. nov.
This species is represented by numerous separated plates of the inferior den-
tal series. They are therefore curved, and attached to their laminiform roots
at a strong angle. The species was smaller than the preceding, judging by the
portions preserved. The band-like teeth differ in their masticatory surface
being convex or rounded, not plane, and having a much less projecting and
lip-like convex margin. Their curvature is less, and does not approach the
angulation of the A. arcuatus, and the width is nearly uniform at all points,
and not narrowed at the extremities as in the latter. The laminar portion is
relatively longer, having therefore a more extensive imbrication.
1807.]
