140 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF
Lines.
Length of convexity of perfect tooth 21 '5
" of chord " 16-75
Depth of laminar series 6
Width of masticatory surface 2-75
MYLIOBATIS Cuvier.
The following are the first species of this genus which have been determined
from the miocene age in the United States :
Myliobatis gigas Cope.
This species is remarkable for the transverse extent of its median teeth, and
its strong antero-posterior curvature. The latter is greater than the transverse
curvature, which consists in the slope of the lateral dental series and of the
extremities of the median teeth. Lateral teeth longer than broad, convex, in
two rows. Median teeth well arched horizontally, but straight in their median
portions, the length one-seventh the (straight) width.
Total length 3 in. 8 lines ; width of median series 3 in. 2 5 lines. Sutures
straight; surface smooth. (Remains of two or three individuals in the col-
lection.) Should the proportions of this species have been similar to those of
the M. a q u i 1 a of the Mediterranean, the extent of its pectoral fins would have
been not less than nine feet.
Myliobatis pachyodon Cope.
This species, also of large size, approaches near to the M. h o 1 m e s i i Gibbes,
and M. reglianus Agassiz. It differs from the former in its median series
of teeth being transverse and scarcely curved, and in the inferior lamina; being
without V-like grooves ; and from the latter in the depth of median teeth be-
ing half deeper in relation to the length, and in their greater transverse con-
vexity. The specimen on which the species is founded consists of the lateral
portions of four median and the single row of lateral teeth. The great depth
of the vaso-dentinal layer is only equalled in the M. holmesii. The M.
stokesii Agass. and M. micropleurus Agass., which resemble it in
some particulars, differ in possessing two lateral series of teeth.
The lateral teeth are larger than broad.
Lines.
Longitudinal width of median tooth band 5-25
Depth of vaso-dentinal layer 7-75
" of lamellar layer 2-75
The transverse extent of the plate to a point which appears by the inferior
curvature to be the middle, is 10 lines ; the series has therefore probably been
narrow.
Myliobatis vicomicancs Cope.
Specimens of two individuals represent this species, which is of somewhat
smaller dimensions than the two preceding, though one of the large species.
One plate, extending over twelve median teeth, is flat antero-posteriorly, and
nearly so transversely ; the sutures of the median teeth slightly concave medi-
ally, and strongly convex at their extremities. Two lateral rows of teeth,
which are longer than broad. Sutures straight. Vaso-dentinal layer shallow ;
where worn down in an old specimen, the surface is punctate all over through
the section of the vascular canals.
In. Lin.
Total length of specimen 3 2-5
Transverse length of median teeth 2 3-75
Length of median teeth 3-75
Depth (if vaso-dentinal stratum , 4-5
In the preceding three species the series of attaching lamina; are arranged
in series oblique to the base of each tooth.
[Dec.
