NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 141
RAJA Linnaeus.
Raja dux Cope.
This species is represented by a dermal plate, which was originally covered
by enamel, and probably supported a spine ; the latter, and a considerable por-
tion of the former, have been lost. The form is unsymmetrically subpentago-
nal, longer than broad. One extremity truncate, the other obtusely narrowed.
Inferior surface concave flattened ; superior rising to a small median plane,
edges thin. Greatest elevation near the narrow extremity, where the spine
stood ; a groove extends from the position of the latter to the margin. Surface
indistinctly ribbed at right angles to the margin. Enamel with slightly wavy
ribs, those near the centre much coarser than those near the circumference.
Length of plate 15 lines; greatest width 12-75 lines; greatest depth 4 lines.
A second plate, perhaps of the same species, differs in its narrower form ; it is
without enamel.
This ray was larger than any described from European tertiary.
NOTIDANUS Cuv.
Notidaxus primigenics Agassiz, Gibbes.
Fourteen teeth.
NOTIDANUS PLECTRODON Cope, Sp. nOV.
This species is represented by nine teeth, which are quite characteristic. It
presents fewer denticles than any other species, and thus approaches distantly
the N.recu rv u s of Agassiz. Large denticles but two, leaning obliquely in
the plane of the root; the external denticle one-fifth the size of the median.
Median denticle twice as high as broad at the basis, little inclined from the
plane of the root; the cutting edge curved. Serrate edge very short, basal, in
one specimen with no, in another four denticles. Section of root wedge-
shaped.
Lines.
Length of root 8-75
Elevation of longest denticle 6
Four teeth which I refer to a median position in the jaws of this species, have
no lateral cusps whatever, but approximate those of some species of Lamna in
form. Crown rather slender, subcylindric and slightly constricted at the base
of the enamel, which is convex vertically and transversely at that point. This
convexity is very strong to the apex of the tooth ; the other side is still more
convex. The crown is also very oblique in one or both directions. It is per-
fectly smooth, with lateral cutting edges. The latter disappears on the inner
basis of the largest and most curved specimen. The enamel does not descend
low on the outer face in the largest specimens. Tip little compressed ; narrowed.
Greatest length, 8-25 1. ; of crown, 6'25 ; of root transversely, 6 1.
GALEOCERDO Mull., Henle.
Galeocerdo appendiculatus Agass.
Galeocerdo latidens Agass.
Galeocerdo aduncus Agassiz.
Galeocerdo contortus Gibbes.
Galeocerdo egertoni Agass.
Galeocerdo ? sp. aff. contorto.
Galeocerdo l.evissimds Cope, sp. nov.
This species is indicated by a large number of teeth. It is of the type of G.
a d u n c u s , but is characterized by the shortness -of the root transversely as
compared with the elevation of the crown, the convexity of the inner face of
the latter, and the total absence of denticulations in any portion. The crown
is oblique, the inner margin vertical in nearly all the specimens, the basal cut-
1867.]
