142 ] PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
ting edges short. The upper margin is not turned outwards, asinG. contor-
tu s Gibbes, and the section of both inner and outer faces everywhere convex.
Base of the enamel inside either convex or plane ; outer basis rising on the
crown. Axis of medium spec. 5-25 1. Transverse extent of same, 6-75 1.
The apex of the crown is not nearly so oblique as in G. a d u n c u s, though
the specimens are, as in other species, more or less oblique or depressed, accord-
ing to the position in the mouth. The species appears to be well marked.
SPHYRNA Rafin.
Sphyrna prisca Agass.
Sphyrna ? spec.
Sphvr.va magna Cope.
This species resembles in its dentition a small Oxyrhina, with the basal por-
tion much prolonged laterally, and crenate. The crown in the specimens is
slightlv to markedly oblique, "rather narrow and stout, slightly bent outwards,
with sharp, and entirely smooth cutting edges. Both faces are convex, the
outer much so, the inner with a slight groove at base. The root rather short,
slightly concave below, and prominent behind. The basal portion bounding
the least angle is separated by an incised notch. One specimen is larger, more
oblique, and with longer basis. Total elevation of medium specimen 7 lines ;
basis of same G'5 lines. Larger specimen, axis, 7-8 lines; basis, 9 lines.
HEMIPRISTIS Agass.
Hemipristis serra Agass.
CARCTIARODON Smith.
Carcharodox ? angcstidexs Agass.
Carcharodox megalodon Agass.
OTODUS Agass.
Otodus obltqdus Agass.
Otodus appexdiculatus Agass.
OXYRHINA Agass.
OXYRHIXA XIPHODOX AgaSS.
Oxyrhina hastalis Agass.
Oxyrhina desorii Gibbes.
Oxyrhina sillimaxii Gibbes.
Oxyrhina mintjta Agass.
LAMNA Cuvier.
Lamna hopei Agass.
Lamna denticulata Agass.
Lamna elegans Agass.
Lamna cuspidata Agass.
Lamna ? subulata Agass.
TELEOSTEI.
SPHYRJENA Cuv.
Si'iivr.kna speciosa Leidy, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. 1856, p. 221.
TESTUDINATA.
TRIONYX Geoffr.
Trionvx obllulosus Cope. . .
Two small fragments of the carapace are all that represent tins species. 1 he
sculpture is, however, exceedingly characteristic, and different from that of any
either recent or fossil species known to the writer.
[Dec.
