NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.
143
The surface is marked by numerous closely placed pits, which are remarka-
bly deep, producing the vesicular appearance of scoria. The resemblance is
heightened by the irregular size of the pits. Edges of septa rounded. The
fragments are unusually thick, indicating a species of large size.
Lines.
Width of free portion of rib at origin 7"5
Depth of portion of carapace 4-33
Trionyx sp.
An uncharacteristic portion of the carapace, which exhibits larger and more
regular pits, separated by wider partitions. The pits at one extremity are
larger than those of the other, and the septa narrower.
CHELONE Brongt.
Oheloxe sp.
A proximal portion of the costal plate has a thickness of three lines, but
rapidly thins out. Its surface exhibits transverse rugae at its proximal extre-
mity ; elsewhere the rugaj are longitudinal, and more distinct on one side than
the other.
Oheloxe sp.
Two fragments of the carapace of a large and convex species, each with a
strongly marked groove for the margin of the dermal shields. The surface is
without sculpture.
CROCODILIA.
THECACHAMPSA Cope.
This genus resembles Crocodilus L., but differs in the entire hollowness of
the external stratum of the crowns of the teeth, and their composition of closely
adherent concentric cones. These internal cones, which number at least three,
may be homologous with the included crowns of the successional teeth of
other Crocodilia, but they must be regarded as functional in a physiological
sense, since they compose the bulk of the crown of the tooth, within. They
resemble in this respect Mosasaurus, and probably represent a genus near the
Mosasauridse. In none of the specimens at my disposal is the root preserved,
though the width of the basal margin of the crown inT. contusor indicates
its probable existence.
Thecachampsa contusor Cope.
This species is established on a single tooth. It is remarkable for its short
conic form. The basis is circular, and its diameter is three-fifths the length of
the tooth. The apex is rather acute and circular in section; it is directed to
one side, and the tooth is slightly flattened on the inside of the curve. This
face is bounded by a low obtuse ridge on each side, for the basal two-thirds of
the crown, which are not distinguishable from a series of ridges which mark,
at distances of a line, the basal three-fifths round the crown; they are less dis-
tinct on the convex aspect, and are separated by concave surface. Instead
of the cutting ridges of the genus Crocodilus, the apex is provided with a
narrow flattened plane on each side. The surface of this portion, and of much
of the convex face, is marked by a minute decussating or chevroned sculpture.
Vertical length, 14-5 lines; diameter of base of crown, 8-5 lines.
Thecachampsa sericodon Cope.
This species is based on a number of specimens of elongate conic crowns,
which resemble to a considerable extent those of (Jrocodilus a n t i q u u s Leidy
of the same epoch. They differ from the T. contusor in their more com-
pressed and elongate form, the presence of a sub-acute ridge on each side the
apical three-fifths the crown, the absence of the lateral grooves, and the chev-
ron sculpture. They are, on the contrary, minutely striate, and possess a silky-
lustre.
Length of medium specimen, 16-5 lines; base of crown, 9 lines.
1867.]
