4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
those in the small galls above alluded to, and I could detect no difference;
both kinds existed on the same leaves frequently, and sometimes on different
leaves of the same tree ; other trees have numerous galls all of the small
size ; in none of these small galls, after the most diligent search, have I ever
been able to find a winged male. The conclusion that I have arrived at is
that the galls that produce the winged males develope to a larger size, so as to
make room for the coming winged inhabitant, on the great principle or law
of nature that provides for the wants of every creature, often in a mysterious
manner. These small subglobular galls could not conveniently accommo-
date the winged males. The male-producing grape leaf gall, also, is very
long and well developed, so far as my limited observations have extended,
while galls containing fertile females are variable from large to even quite
small. From my examinations of these Hickory-leaf gall insects, I never
saw the males support'themselves by their wings, although they attempted
flight when dropped properly from the point of a needle ; the atmospheric
temperature then was moderately cool, which may account for their weakness.
When they attempt to fly, the hook of the posterior wing clasps the thicken-
ed posterior border of the anterior wing, but not wheu at rest. The male of
the grape leaf (yitifolim) gall insect also thus made several ineffectual attempts
at flight, but was not able to support its body; how this might be iu a very
warm sunny day I did not have the privilege of determining.
During my microscopic examinations I became convinced that the apparent
enlargement of the posterior border of the anterior wing of these insects, is
not a developement of a nervure or a mere tumefaction of the border, but a
rolling up of the margin like a scroll, which much more admirably fits it for
a permanent retaining point for the hook on the anterior margin of the pos-
terior wing.
To make a thorough examination of the feet and their appendages, the
living insect is the only material from which it can be satisfactorily done.
The two claws, as in the case of the " grape leaf louse," can be easily seen as
the insect attempts to walk on the glass plate. The tarsi of the larva and
female only have two conspicuous digituli, but the male, as it approaches the
imago state, develops six; these I observed in the pupa, being the most con-
venient state for the examination of these organs ; those in the middle, be-
tween the long or principal pair, are not always so conspicuous, but may be
plainly seen under proper circumstances ; more frequently they appear as one
short stub-like spine.
The knobs on the extremities of the principal digituli, over the claws, are
globular, while those on the middle and lateral ones are obovoid and com-
paratively small.
The legs, feet, etc., of the male imago are much longer than iu any other
state, hence they appear to be the best material for satisfactory examination,
regarding the problem of one or two joints for the tarsi. While the insect
was walking slowly under the microscope, I beheld, in a vertical direction,
that the tarsi are composed of at least three rings or segments, none of which
presented a movable joint; 1 then crushed the abdomen, but did not injure
the thorax : by this means I brought some of the legs on the side, so that the
joints moved in a plane parallel with the glass plate; this also had the ad-
vantage of confining the insect to the spot, and, as I did not injure the
thorax, I had a fair opportunity of examining the tarsi for a long time, with
the advantage of such motion as I desired while the insect struggled for free-
dom ; this view of the tarsi demonstrates that they are composed of four
rings BOldered together, none of them gave the slightest joint-like motion ;
the upper riiifr is the most plainly distinct from the succeeding one; on the
under side of the foot I beheld some constriction, but on the sides and above
there is none ; I observed this with gnat rare, but saw no motion, the bending
of the foot being confined entirely to the articulation of the tarsus with the
tibia. I then, by way of comparison, examined, under similar circumstances,
f Jan.
