NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145
is marked by numerous irregular transverse lines, similar to those frequently
marking growth, and by longitudinal shallow grooves. The pulp-cavity ex-
tends for two-thirds the length of the tooth, being thus relatively deeper than
in the known species, and is also very large, thinning the external wall out to
an open basis. In the known species the walls are relatively thicker, and for
a considerable distance parallel to each other. The form of the tooth is in
some degree similar to the crown of the canines of some crocodiles. There is
no enamel on the teeth of Cetaceans of this genus.
Total length, 2 inches 5 lines; long diameter at base, 8-25 lines; diameter
at middle, 6 lines.
RIIABDOSTEUS Cope.
This genus is either referable to a family not yet characterized, allied to the
Platanistidaj and Delphinidre, or belongs to the first named of these recent
families.
Premaxillary and maxillary bones forming a cylinder, bearing teeth on its
proximal portion, and prolonged in its distal portion into a slender straight
beak. Teeth with the enlarged crown separated from the fang by a con-
striction.
This is one of the most remarkable genera of Cetaceans, and may be com-
pared to its affines as Xiphias is to other Teleostei.
Rhabdosteus latiradix Cope.
A portion of the muzzle of this species, which is preserved, measures 12 in.
7-5 lines in length, 12-5 lines in transverse, and 11 lines in vertical diameter
at the base. The superior edge of the maxillary bone forms the external out-
line, while the remainder of this element is entirely inferior. The palatine face
is convex, and the alveolar series approximated. The alveola? themselves are
longitudinal, two in V5 of an inch, and separated from each other by spongy
septa. The vomer does not appear in the portion of the muzzle at my disposal.
Lines.
Width of premaxillary 6
" superior face maxillary 4 - T 5
" palatine face of maxillary 4-5
Three teeth are referred, with much probability, to this species. The fangs
are from equal to to twice the length of the crowns, and are much compressed,
widening downwards, and more or less prolonged at one inferior angle, in the
same plane. The crown, compressed transversely to the root, and expanded
above the base, straight or slightly curved in the direction of its plane.
Enamel smooth, edges obtuse. The compressed fang corresponds to the longi-
tudinal alveolus, while the transverse dilatation of the crown is similar to the
form of those of Platanista.
Line?.
Length of largest specimen 12
" " crown 5
Width of fang 3
Jas. T. Thomas, the discoverer of this Cetacean, tells me that he has seen
portions of the muzzle between two and three feet long. From the gradual
acumination of the individual here described, the length of the muzzle alone
might have been at least of that length. A slender piece, evidently a portion
of the premaxillary of a smaller individual, is fourteen inches in length, its
posterior portion is deflected, as if to give place to the prenarial triangle, and
its inner margin descends abruptly to the same.
PRISCODELPHINUS Leidy.
In this genus the muzzle is elongate and flattened, and furnished with cylin-
drical fanged teeth, which extend throughout much or all of its length. The
symphysis mandibuli is very elongate. The teeth have not been described.
DelphinuB canaliculars von Meyer, from the Swiss Tertiary, appears to
belong to it. (Palaeontographica, 185C, p. 44).
1867.] 10
