146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
Pribcodelphintjs acutidenh Cope.
This species is represented by a single tooth, which is apparently that of an
adult of much smaller size than either of the known species of the genus. The
fang is straight, fusiform, and cylindrical in section. It is constricted imme-
diately below the crown. The latter is curved conic, the face within the curve
bounded on each side by a low but acute ridge, which extends from near the
acute apex to near the base. Enamel polished, smooth. Extremity of fang
acute, solid.
Total length 7 lines; length crown 3-2 lines; diameter of base crown 1.4
lines.
LOPHOCETUS Cope.
Temporal fossa truncated by a horizontal crest above, prolonged backwards
and bounded by a projecting crest, which renders the occipital plane concave.
The same crest prolonged upwards and thickened, each not meeting that of
the opposite side, but continued on the inner margins of the maxillary bones,
turning outwards and ceasing opposite the nares. Front, therefore, deeply
grooved. Premaxillaries separated by a deep groove. Teeth with cylindric
roots.
Lophocetus calvertensis. Delphiuus calverlensis Harlan. Pontoporia calvertensis
Cope, Proc. Acad. 186G.
This species is near to the Pontoporias, but differs as above, so as to be
referable to another genus. The form of the occiput indicates the insertion of
powerful muscles, a condition which does not exist in any of the true Getacea
within the knowledge of the writer, excepting in Inia and in Arionius, von
Meyer, from the Swiss Miocene. The latter genus resembles it also in the su-
perior truncation of the temporal fossae, but here all similarity ceases, for in
Arionius the frontal bones are well developed, while in Lophocetus they are,
as in true Delphinidse, mere narrow transverse wedges. They are, indeed,
much less developed than in Pontoporia. or even than in Inia.
The resemblance to Inia is closest. The only feature which renders a gene-
ric distinction certain is the cylindric form of the posterior alveolae, which
renders it probable that the teeth were not furnished with lobes as in Inia. In
the latter the fangs have a transverse dilatation to support those. Harlan also
states that but one and a half inches of the muzzle are broken away. If this
be the case, the genus is short-muzzled and with the symphysis mandibuli not
elongate. This is, however, exceedingly doubtful.
In Lophocetus calvertensis the nasal bones are separated by a deep fis-
sure. The mamillaries exhibit, on each side in front of the external Dares, two
oval, roughened surfaces, which converge behind the nares. These appear to
be insertions, perhaps for cartilaginous crests, comparable to the bony roofs of
Platanista, less probably, for muscles connected with the external meatus.
The form of the muzzle is not as elongate as in the known species of Ponto-
poria, and it is much expanded, proximally, instead of contracted, as in the
latter.
This dolphin approximated the larger white whales (Beluga) in size.
ESCHRICIITirS Gray.
The genus Megaptera Gray embraces species of large size, living in the
recent seas, known as the hump-backed whales. There are six species known,
from different seas, of which one, Megaptera osphyia Cope, occurs on tin
Atlantic coast of the United States. An examination of some specimens of
periotic bones and vertebrae, from near Yorktown, Virginia, firsl indicated to
the writer tin- existence of a supposed Bpecies of the genus, in the .Miocene
period, and it was mentioned in these Proceedings, 1865, 180. In the present
collection the remains of an allied or the same species art' preserved. These
the premaxillary bones, nearly complete ; the rami of the mandible, nearly
[Dec.
