NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 140
Diameter of neural canal (greatest) 4
Depth centrum 4 1
Length " 9-5
Transverse diameter of fifth cervical 4 9
" " " neur. diapophysis 1 6-5
Vertical " .' 4 55
Length centrum 10-5
Transverse diameter seventh cervical 5 3
" " neur. diapophysis 1 8
Vertical " centrum 4 5
Length centrum 1 2
" " of an interior caudal 5 2
Vertical diameter of anterior face 4 9
Transverse " " " " 5 7-5
Height neural spine (worn) 1 7-5
Length diapophysis (worn) 1 7-5
"Width of inferior concavity 1 8
The caudal vertebra measured has the elongate form of those of the Balte-
nopteras, and two strong inferior ridges, separated by each other by a deeper,
and from the diapophyses by a shallower concavity.
A considerable portion of both premaxillary bones preserved shows an elon-
gate muzzle ; their form is narrow, especially towards their distal extremity,
where they are much flattened ; for a short distance posterior to that point they
are subcylindrical and grooved.
Ft. In.
Length preserved (proximal end wanting) 6 8
Width near proximal end. 3-5
" " distal 2-5
The mandibular rami are massive, moderately curved, and considerablv
compressed, especially on their distal fourth. The interior face is everywhere
nearly flat, the exterior convex ; the superior ridge is rather acute ; the infe-
rior aspect obtuse, narrow. A series of large distant vascular foramina extend
along the outer face some distance below the superior ridge. The coronoid
processes have been broken off; their bases would indicate that they were
compressed, and not elevated.
Ft. In.
Length of jaw to opposite coronoid 7 0-5
Total length (restored after E. robustus) 9 4-5
Depth one foot from extremity 4-8
" two feet in advance coronoid proc 8
The great length of the ramus as compared with the size of the cervical ver-
tebra? is a remarkable feature. In two not distantly related species, following,
they are :
Diam. vertebrae. Ramus. Total.
Eschrichtius robustus (3d c.) 8-75 in. 8f. 2 in. 47
Megaptera longimana (1st d.) 8'5 10-7 34-6
Eschrichtius cephalus (7th c.) 5-25 9-4 31
The proportion of the last cervical to the ramus is probably one-fourth less
in the new species than in the second-named, and it might therefore be sup-
posed that the head would bear a greater proportion to the total length than
in Megaptera longimana, and thus approach the Balaena mysticetus.
This great proportion is reduced by the indications furnished by posterior ver-
tebra? which have the elongate form of those of the Balaenoptenc. This point
being opposed to the other, it seems probable that the proportions most nearly
approached those of the B. longimana, as above estimated, and that while
this Cetacean possessed a larger head than the Eschrichtius robustus, ita
absolute length was less.
The form of the anterior limb presents us with a striking peculiarity of this
1867.]
