150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
species. Tt was remarkably short, approaching the species of Balsena, and
differing from E. robustus, still more from the Sibbaldii and Bahenoptene.
and most from Megaptera longimana.
In. Lin.
Length humerus 11 8
Least width 4 4
Distal " 5 3
Length radius (straight line) 15 5
Proximal width 3 6
Distal " 4
The humerus is flattened in one plane, and 1ms an elevation near the middle
of the infero-posterior margin, for muscular insertion. The shortness of the
limb is a consequence of the small size of the radius and ulna.
Two carpals and one phalange are preserved. The former are as deep as
wide, oval ; one longer, and composed of two united centres of ossification.
In. Lin.
Length of longest carpal 2 6
" ' phalange 3 2
Width " " 2 3
In conclusion it may be asserted that a rather more than usually fortunate
coincidence in the preservation of important parts of the skeleton has enabled
the writer to explain with some degree of accuracy the characteristics of this
monster of the deep, almost the largest mammal of the miocene period yet
known, but few of whose fellow leviathans have been as yet indicated by
fragments only.
SQUALODON Grateloup.
Van Beneden Ac. Roy. Belg. 18G5. Phocodon Agass., Crenidelphinus Laurill.
Macrophoca Leidy, JUelphivoides Pedroni, Champsodelphis Gervais.
This remarkable genus of Cetaceans, at one time supposed to be identical
with the Basilosaurus (Harlan), has recently been greatly elucidated by the
investigations of Prof. Van Beneden of the University of Louvain. The
discoverv of remains of more than one allied species in the neighborhood of
Antwerp was the immediate stimulant to these researches. Jourdan and Van
Beneden have proven the distinctness of this genus from Basilosaurus, in its
much shorter cranial cavity, and posteriorly placed nasal meatus. The nasal
bones are abbreviated and flattened, as in the whales, while those of the Basi-
losauri are elongate, prolonging the nasal meatus, ami throwing the nares tar
anteriorly. The latter thus approximate the Pinnipedia, while the Squalo-
dons are more typical Cetaceans.
The present collection contains remains to be attributed to this genus, and
which will he made subjects of illustration. At present a brief notice of den-
tal features will suffice.
A considerable amount of variation among teeth situate in different posi-
tions in the jaws of the same species, has been shown in the above mentioned
, to exist. In consequence, remains, assigned by authors to various
genera, have been, with much probability, referred to the genus Squalodon.*
The same erroneous references had also been made in this country, hut to a less
extent. The remains on which these, and the present notices are based, indi-
cate much paralellism between the marine faunae of the coasts of America and
Europe, during the Yorktown Epoch.
Remains of nine individuals at niv disposal indicate several species of this
genus. They may be compared as follows with those already known.
* Prof. \':<n Beneden adopts this name, and rejects that of Basilosaurus for Harlan's
genuf ly on the ground of the ill application of the latter to a genus of mammals.
The application of the name Squalodon is, however, even more faulty, and it has nol the
merit of classic composition, luce Basilosaurus.
[Dec.
