NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151
I. Molars with two roots.
** Premolars with short conic crowns.
Premolars compressed, cutting.
Roots of premolars compressed S. protervus.
Prornolars not compressed, bent.
Size small.
Premolars with crowns bent S. wymanii.
Size large.
Extremity of mandible much recurved; alveolae supe-
rior S. men to.
Extremity of mandible little recurved ; alveolae lateral. ...S. grateloupii.
** Premolars with elongate conic crowns.
Enamel of premolars smooth.
Roots of premolars very long S. holmesii.
Enamel of premolars ridged or striate.
Premolars striate ; muzzle short, broad ; molars serrate
on both edges S. ehrlichia
Premolars ridged ; muzzle long, slender ; molars serrate
on both edges (except one or two anterior.) S. atlanticus.
Premolars ridged ; muzzle long, slender ; molars serrate
only on the posterior edge S. antverpiensis.
II. Molars (or a portion of them) with three roots.
Denticules on the posterior edge only, step.like S. gervaisii.
Of the above species, the two rooted molars of S. protervus, S.
wymanii, S.mento, and S. holmesii are unknown. It is, however,
altogether probable, from the usual correlation with the form of the molar
teeth, that there are three genera included in the preceding synopsis. Prof.
Van Beneden states that probably the S. gervaisii will be found to per-
tain to an unnamed genus. Of this there is as yet little evidence, as the
character of the three roots is not seen in a second molar figured by Gervais.
The remaining species may be arranged as follows :
Cyxorca Cope, sp. C.proterva Cope.
Squalodon Grateloup, sp. S. men to Cope, S. wymanii Leidy, S.
grateloupii Von Meyer.
Colophoxodox Leidy, C. holmesii Leidy, C. ehrlichii Van Beneden,
C. atlanticus Leidy and C. antverpiensis Van Beneden .
Lastly, may be added the gigantic ally of the above, described by Von
Meyer and Van Beneden,
Stexodox Van Ben. S. lentianus Von Meyer.
Squalodox protervus Cope.
This species is represented in the collection by a single canine tooth, which
presents the usual small crown ami broad fang of the Cetacea. The fang is,
however, shorter than in any homologous teeth in the other two genera above
named and, with the crowa, very much compressed in one plane. A shallow
groove extends on each side of it to the narrowed and flattened truncate base.
The tooth is widest at the middle of the fang : the crown is rapidlj acuminate,
narrow lenticular in section, and furnished with a rather thickened postero-
internal cutting edge. The anterior or external aspect is worn away by the
attrition of a corresponding tooth, but was obtuse, and furnished with a
longitudinal ridge on each side at the base of the crown. The surface of the
enamel is rugose, more minutely on one side than on the other. The tooth is
considerably curved. While the enamel is polished, the fang is roughened
and opaque.
1867.]
