152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
In. Lin.
Total length on middle 1 10.5
Length of crown
Width at base of crown 4-5
" middle of fang 5.25
The length of the root of this tooth renders it improbable that it was a
transitional molar, that is, intervening between the premolars and molars. Two
teeth, having crowns similarly though rather more symmetrically formed, are
in the Academy Museum, and these I suspect to have occupied that position.
The present is more likely to have been an elongate tooth near the position
usually occupied in Mammalia by the canines. There can be little doubt that
the genus Cynorca, to which 1 refer it, will turn out to be well characterized.
The tooth of a closely allied animal is figured by Giebel, Odontographia
xxxvi, 10, 11, 14, after Von Meyer. I have not been able to find the descrip-
tion of it, if existing.
Sqtalodon wymanii m. Phoca wymanii Leidy. Proceedings Academy N. Sci.
1856, 265.
Of this, the smallest species of the genus, three premolar teeth are in the
collection, and the type specimen is in the Academy's Museum. The teeth are
remarkable for the abrupt posterior direction of their crowns. The roots are
curved, one of them abruptly so, and flattened.
Squalodox mexto Cope. Cetacean, Wyman, Amer. Jour. Sci. Arts, 1850,
230-232, figs. 4, 5, 6, 7.
This species is represented by four premolar teeth. The fang in these is
thickest just below the base of the crown. No. 1 has a conic slightly curved
crown, oval in section ; it is grooved on the sides and minutely rugose elsewhere.
The fang is polished, compressed, slightly curved in two directions, and
grooved on its sides, one, the strongest, on the inner side of a curve and con-
tinuous with the grooving of the crown. At the base of the crown, on the side
of the groove, is as light swelling. In Nos. 2, 3 and 4 the fangs are rugose, in
No. 2 more cylindrical and slightly grooved laterally with open pulp cavity.
Nos. 3 and 4 exhibit this cavity closed in No. 4 by a distinct bony plug, and
their fangs arc much curved. In No. 3 the crown is smaller and more conic
than in No 1 ; it is rugose and furnished with a delicate continuous ridge on
the outer and inner borders of its incurved plane. In No. 4 the crown is as
broad at the basis as No. 1, but is much less elevated, and abruptly recurved.
It is subtrihedral in form, and is provided with a distinct tube at the base,
behind the recurvature. The anterior outline of the crown forms the quad-
rant of a circle; it bears arugulose cutting ridge, which is continued from the
acuminate apex over the tubercle.
Lines.
Length No. 1 23-5
' " crown (restored)., 7'S
" No. 3 25-5
" crown '
" No. 4 22 5
" crown 6*5
Width " " at base 5-25
No. 1 approximates in position the transitional molar. A tooth, perhaps
occupying thai place or the next, has been figured by Dr. Wyman (Suprafig4),
lelonging to the genus Phocodon A.gaS8.* The anterior premolars and a
portion of the mandible, no doubt belonging to the same species, are figured
in the same place as above. They belong to an animal much smaller than
to which the teeth above described pertain, and it is a matter of some
lion whether these specimens do not rather relate to the S. wymanii
Leidy. The teeth, however, do not exhibit that abrupt flexure of the crown
* It also bears much resemblance to those of the roeent Inia.
[Dec.
