NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153
seen in the latter species. These premolar teeth bear considerable resemblance
to those of the genus Otaria, and explain the reference of several of the
species to seals by Gervais, Leidy and others.
If the S. m e n t o be as I suppose, nearly allied to the S. giateloupii,
it differs in the more recurved extremity of the symphysis, and the more verti-
cal direction of the teeth. This comparison is, however, based upon the
determination of Van Beneden, that the mandible figured by Gervais as
Champaoddphis macrogenius (from Leognan near Bordeaux) really belongs to
the Sq. grateloupii. A portion of maxillary and premaxillary bones with
teeth, said by Gervais to belong to the former, obviously does not relate to the
latter; hence the probability of the existence of another species to be called
Sq. macrogenius. The teeth named by Gervais as Phoca pedronii and
Phoca sp. (Tab. viii f. 8) are evidently those of a species allied to Sq. m e n t o m.
Relying then on Van Beneden's determination, the Sq. grateloupii is more
nearly allied to the two preceding species in the lack of long conical premolars
and canine -like teeth, than it is to the species included here under the head of
Colophonodon. In the latter these weapons are of great length and strength,
and the anterior, according to Van Beneden, may be called small tusks. A
species still smaller than the S. w y m a n i i has been described by Leidy as Phoca
debilis, from the Pliocene of Ashley River of S. Carolina. It will no doubt be
found to be allied to Squalodon (vid. Pr. A. N. S. Phil. 1856, 265).
Squalodon holmksii Leidy M. S.* Colophonodon holmesii Leidy. Proceedings
Academy 1853, p. 377.
The size of this species was probably near that of the S. men to, and
smaller than that of the S. a 1 1 a n t i c u s. Its geologic position is supposed
to be the pliocene, while the other species of the genus have been discovered
in miocene beds. It is, therefore, not xepresented in Thomas' collection.
Squalodon atlanticus Leidy MS. Macrophoca atlaniica Leidy, Proceed. Acad.
1856, 220.
Remains of three individuals of this species before me indicate considerable
variety in the forms of the two rooted molar teeth.
The individual from which Leidy determined the species is represented by
only three true molars. Of these, the posterior, with more curved and di-
varicate fangs, is smaller, and presents four crests behind, and two in front.
The next presents the same number of crests, with the addition of a basal
rudimentary one in front. In the other molar, which has a slightly more
elongate crown, three and a rudiment may be counted behind, and none in
front.
The second individual is represented in the Thomas collection by the proxi-
mal portions of the maxillary bones of both sides, and seven molar teeth in
place At least four of the most posterior molars were inserted in oblique
alveola?, overlapping by their anterior fang the inner face of the posterior
fang of the tooth in front. Anterior to these the alveolae are less oblique, and
separated by spaces. The palatal face is moderately convex, while the exter-
nal surface is divided into two plane faces by an angulated line, which is
strong posteriorly, vanishing anteriorly. These bones indicate a muzzle of
proportions similar to those of the Sq. antverpiensis Van Beneden, and
a cranium of thirty inches in length.
The teeth themselves, from their entire absence of worn surfaces, may be
supposed to belong to a young individual. They are longitudinally wrinkled,
and present a thick anterior and posterior cutting edge. The serrulations
stand from behind, 3. 2 |_ 3, the anterior two of the last being very weak.
The cutting edge of all these is serrulate. Not only in the number of the
crests, but in the more elevate conic apex, do these teeth differ from those of
the foregoing individual.
* Prof. Leidy informs me that he has arranged this and the succeeding species in the
genus Squalodon in the MSS. of his work on North American extinct mammalia.
]867.]
