154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
The third individual is represented by one true molar, and two caniniform
premolars. The former is considerably smaller and more conic than the
others, and exhibits a minute knob only on its anterior edge, to represent a
crest. On the posterior aspect there have been three crests on the basal
three-fifths the crown, worn off by mastication. The fangs are connected by
a thin lamina, as in the second described specimen, and not, as in the first, by
a thick wall.
One canine is larger, and with perfect root; the other smaller, a little more
compressed, and without fang; it exhibits a rather large conic pulp cavity.
The fang of the first is one-third longer than its crown; it is slender, slightly
compressed conic, and without cavity at the extremity. The crown is coarsely
striate and rugose between the striae ; two of the latter are elevated into ob-
tuse anterior and posterior cutting edges. Diameter greatest at base of
crown ; latter slightly curved.
In. Lin.
Length of basis of large molar of No. 1 13
Height of enamel of same 10
" " in No. 2 13
Length bases of 2, 3 and 4 molars (from behind), No. 2 3 4-5
Width palatine face at 3d molar, No. 2 3 875
Length canine, No. 3 4
fang of do 2 4 5
" basis of molar crown, No. 3 11
Height of " " " " 9
No. 1 was discovered in the miocene of New Jersey ; the others were in the
Thomas collection.
The question arises as to the specific identity of these individuals. The
molar of No. 3 at once suggests a species different from No. 2 in smaller adult
size, and lack of anterior denticles. It could not be considered as a transi-
tional molar. These are shown by Van Beneden to be premolars, which
assume traces of the characters of the true molars. The present tooth, in its
form and double fang, is evidently a true molar. The discovery of the tooth
of No. 1 without denticles, however, invalidates this peculiarity as a ground
of difference in the present case, and furnishes a character of the species.
Those whose dentition is known exhibit an abrupt commencement of character-
istic true molars, without material approximation in the forms of their crowns
to those of the premolars. The shorter apex and increased number of den-
ticles on the posterior face in the specimen No. 1, I regard as an individual
peculiarity.
The question as to the identity of this species with the Sq. grateloupii
depends in part on the 'identification of various short crowned teeth, descri
by Gervais as its premolars. The strong median angulation of the external
face of the posterior part of the mamillaries, is a feature not described or
figured as existing in the latter species. The affinity of the S. a 1. 1 a n t i c u s
is really nearer to the S. antverpiensis of Van Bcneden, if it be not the
same. The only characters which I can at present assign as distinctive, are
ihe absence of denticles on the anterior edge of the molars throughout the
series, and the non-overlapping of the four posterior of these teeth. The
general proportions of the jaws and the form of the canine premolars are
vi'iy similar in the two species. If, as I suppose, my description of No. 2 is
taken from a young animal, its adult dimensions will exceed those of the
S. a n t v erpiensis.
DORYODON Gibbes.
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada. 1845, 254. Pontogeneut Leidy, op. cit. 1853,52.
This genus has been regarded as identical with Basilosaurus by Professor
Muller, if, as is stated by .Miillcr, 1. c. (and Broun, Lethoea Geognostica), the
[Dec.
