NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155
species described by the former author is congeneric or identical with that
described by Gibbes. Authors generally seem to have settled down to the
belief in the identity of the two genera, the only exception being Prof. Van
Beneden, who, in his essay on Squalodon, doubts the generic identity of Ba-
silosaurus macrospondylus and B. brackyspondylus of Muller. Enough is now
known of the Cetacea to render it certain that these two species cannot be-
long to the same genus, the elongate form of the dorsal vertebras of the true
Basilosaurus cetoides sufficiently characterizing that genus, as compared
with the more usual Cetacean form of those of the present type. This feature
was, however, not known to Gibbes, who endeavored to establish the genus
on the hollowness of its teeth, a character dependent, perhaps, on develop-
ment.
Doryodon pygm^ecs Cope. Zeuglodon pygmseus Muller, Ueber die Zeuglodon-
ten, Berlin. Pontogeneus ? prisms Leidy, op. cit.
Eocene. Louisiana, Alabama.
Doryodon serratus Gibbes, 1. c. Basilosaurus serratus Gibbes, Journ. Acad*
i. 10. ? Zeuglodon br achy spondylus Muller, Ueber d. Zeuglodonten, 1849,
26. Tab.
Eocene. Alabama, South Carolina.
BASILOSAURUS Harlan.
Trans, Amer. Philos. Soc. Philada. 1834. Zeuglodon Owen, Trans. Geolog.
Soc. London, 1839.
Basilosaurus cetoides Geinitz, Unters. ueber Ilydrarchus, Dresden, 1847
(cum Carus et Reichenbach), Gibbes, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci, 1847, 1.
Eoceue. Arkansas, Alabama.
Supplement.
la the same collection are portions of mandibular rami of two species of
terrestrial Mammalia, which would not appear to be referable to the same
stratigraphic horizon. No beds regarded as postpliocene have as yet been
indicated from the shores of the Patuxent, though the below-mentioned spe-
cies have been most probably derived from such a deposit. These, with the
other beds of other epochs, are buried under from ten to thirty feet of rather
fine gravel drift.
Dicotyles tohquatcs Cuvier.
Portions of both rami of the mandible with permanent and deciduous mo-
lars and canines of a small individual. The former a"re similar to those de-
scribed by Leidy in Palaeontology of South Carolina, by Prof. Holmes, and
closely resemble those of the common Peccary. They lack, however, the
cingulum crossing the interspace between the external pair of tubercles.
Galera macrodon Cope, sp. nov.
This species is based on the greater portion of the right ramus of the man-
dible of an adult, containing three molars in place, the alveohe of the first
and of the last, with a considerable portion of that of the canine.
The alveolus indicates a canine of large size. The basis of first premolar is
turned obliquely outwards, and is two-rooted. The second and third premolars
are separated by a space ; they have well-marked cingula, but neither posterior
nor iuternal tubercles. The sectorial is elongate, more than twice as long as
wide, the inner tubercle well marked, acute, the posterior lobe flattened,
elongate ; auterior lobe narrowed. Alveolus of the tubercular molar longi-
tudinal, receiving a flattened fang with a groove on each side. Inferior face
of ramus below anterior line of coronoid process, broad rounded, turned out-
wards. Masseteric ridge only reaching the latter below near the apex of the
1867.]
