156
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
coronoid process, and not extending anterior to the line of the posterior mar.
gin of the tubercular molar. Ramus narrow at first premolar.
In. Lin.
Length of ramus from posterior margin canine to do. of tubercular 1 55
" to posterior margin sectorial 1 3
" third premolar 3-75
" sectorial molar 6
Width of same (posterior lobe) 2-8
Depth ramus at posterior margin first premolar 7*5
" " " sectorial 825
Width " " symphysis 4-5
This species appears to have been perhaps rather larger than the Galera
barb ata (Gray) of Brazil, and of a rather more slender muzzle. As com-
pared with that species, it exhibits many peculiarities. The third premolar
is smaller, and the first, the sectorial, and the tubercular relatively larger. In
<i. harbata the first molar has but one root, and the mandibular ramus
thicker and deeper. The masseteric ridge advances to opposite the middle of
the sectorial molar, and is continued on the inferior margin of the ramus,
much anterior to its position in the G. macrodon.
The discovery of this species adds another link to the evidence in favor of
the extension of neotropical types* over the nearctic region during the post-
pliocene epoch. Of thirty continental North American species enumerated
by Leidy (Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, 9), all but thirteen may be said to be
characteristic of that, or closely allied to the species of the present period of
North America. Of the thirteen, one (Elephas) is characteristic of the old
world, of one (Anomodon) affinities unknown, and eleven are represented
by members of the same family or genus now living in South America.
Among marine vertebrata, as among molluscs, the equivalency with the
European beds of the same age is much closer. The following parallels ex-
hibit this relation :
North American. European.
Aetobatis arcuatus, Aetobatis arcuatus,
Myliobatis pachyodon, Myliobatis reglianus,
Raja dux, Raja ornata,
Plagiostomi sp., Plagiostomi sp.,
Priscodelphinns grandaevus, Priscodelph. canaliculars,
Balaena pala'atlantica, ? Balsena lamanoni,
Squalodon mento, Squalodon gratelonpii,
Squalodon atlanticus, Squalodon antverpiensis.
On the genera of Fresh-water Fishes HYPSILEPIS Baird and PHOTOGENIS
Cope, their species and distribution.
BY E. D. COPE.
The two genera in question are among those represented by the greatest
number of individuals in the streams of the eastern district (. e., east of the
Rocky .Mountains) of our continent. Hypsilepia is distributed over the greater
part of this area, while Photogenis abounds most in the Allegheny region, and
always in the streams flowing through the Mississippi valley, as no species is
known to occur in an Atlantic water. As wc proceed northwards, the latter
genus disappears with many others, one alter another, while Hypsilepis still
i in<. and with its largest Conns peoples the waters of the Great Lakes and
the St. Lawrence.
* Tin- genua Galen, Gray, is here regarded as distinct from Galictis Bell (G>i.<iii<i Gray), as it
D internal tubercle on the inferior sectorial, which is wanting in the latter.
""Jec.
[De
