NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 5
the foot of a species of Aphis, abundant on the apple trees, and saw it com-
posed of the same number of rings ; the upper one at fts union with the suc-
ceeding showed some constriction, as seen either from above or from the side
view; moreover the motion of a joint was very satisfactorily seen, the insect
sometimes bending it alone, at other times in conjunction with the tibio-tarsal
joint.
Now, in view of these facts, I can see no reason for claiming two joints for
the tarsi of this insect. It would be as reasonable to suppose that each
primary ring was a joint, and then we would have four, which, with the
digituli that might be the representatives of another joint, give five unde-
veloped joints joints in embryo the highest number in the more perfect
Insectians ; but in the case of this and other species of this family, which I
have observed, all are soldered together. By extending my examinations to
the tibia I found it composed of about 50 similar primary rings, each one of
which was plainly widened from above downward, thus agreeing in the gen-
eral structural anatomy with the tarsus. This same primary annul.tted
structure I beheld in the antenna? of these insects, also in several species of
Aphidae to which I extended my observations by way of comparison.
Frequently the distal or wide end of these primary rings is prolonged into'
spines, &c, more or less numerous according to the species of insect. These
observations give us a view of the true primary anatomical structure of the
long members of insects, for this annulated structure very probably exists in
the long members of all insects, although not so readily detected, in many
cases, as in the translucent limbs of these insects. Furthermore, these obser-
vations lead us to be careful about pronouncing upon the number of joints in
the tarsi. To designate each one of these rings as a true joint would lead us
at once into inconsistencies, for any anatomist could not presume that the
tibia is composed of 50 joints, or the antennas of this insect, and many species
of the Aphidse, of perhaps hundreds ; hence, where we behold in the tarsi pre-
cisely the same structure, we are no more justifiable in ascribing to it 4 or 5
joints, or even two, without beholding the motion of a joint, or the usual con-
striction. In view of these facts I have made extended and careful observa-
tions on the tarsi of these insects, and have become entirely satisfied that there
is but one joint. These are my reasons for believing that these insects belong
to a new family between the Aphidse and Coccidse.
The promuscis sheath of this insect I examined under more favorable condi-
tions than that of the " grape leaf louse," and clearly saw four joints ; and if,
as I believed, there are two in close proximity, as shown in the magnified
sketch at a, fig. C, on page 1, there are five joints, while in the latter I did
not succeed in distinguishing more than three ; perhaps with proper material
the same arrangement may be discovered in the latter as in the former species.
In D.globosum I had an abundance of male pupae and winged imagos for ex-
amination, while in the D ? vitifolise I was chiefly confined to females and
larvae. The bundle of seta? I could not separate, although I made numerous
examinations, with the living insect on its back, for the purpose of ascertain-
ing positively. I often saw the insect take hold of it by grasping it between
the claws and the foot, pulling and bending it in various directions, Bometimea
seizing it with two feet and pulling in opposite directions, yet I could not de-
termine more than one piece.
DactylospH/Era ? vitifoli/e * (The " Grape leaf louse.' - )
Pemphigus vitifolise, Fitch, 1st and 2d Reports, p. 158. Walsh, Practical
Entomologist, vol. i., p. 111.
* Not wishing to multiply genera unnecessarily. I have not constructed a new genus for tht,
insect, but my convictions are that there ar characters that probably warrant its Reparation
from Dactylospha ra, according to custom. The stigmatic nervine was absent in all the specimens I
saw, hut upon close examination with a microscope of moderate power, in one specimen 1 imagined
that I saw part of a faiat dark lino in one wing, where it might be sought fur. The branch of
1867]
