NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159
Scales of dorsal region larger; fifteen to eighteen in front of dorsal, six
above lateral line. From various streams flowing into Lakes Huron and St.
Lake Superior, Agass. Holston River, Virginia, abundant. Orbit in
specimens 3 in. 9 1. in length, 3-5 times in head; in specimen 7 in. 3 1., 4-75
times in head. The latter have the interorbital region arched in section, and
the vertical diameter of the orbit 3-74 in the same of the head. The former,
the interorbital region flat and the orbit twice in the head as before. The large
specimens have a black scapular bar. They all belong to one variety.
H. c. cerasinus.
This variety is represented by specimens of rather small size, and with large
scales: 6 40 3; 16 in front of dorsal fin ; orbit 3-25 in head of a specimen
3 in. 9 1. in length. Head four times in length. This is a most beautiful spe-
cies in the spring and summer ; it is entirely deep rose, the inferior fins crimson,
a dorsal and two lateral metallic golden lines ; the latter only visible in life
and in certain lights, as in the other varieties. Head waters of the Roanoke.
H. c. cornutus. Leuciscus cornutus Mitchell. Leueiscus plargyrus Rafinesque
hinc Plargyrus typicus Girard. Plargyrus bowmanii Girard, Proc. Acad.
1856, 196 (from autopsy).
Scales of dorsal region smaller, 22 to 24 in front of dorsal fin ; on sides 8
41 3-4. Dorsal region blue in spring ; fins, chin and muzzle red. Dorsal
region convex and compressed to dorsal fin, the head four and one-quarter
times in length to base of caudal fin, and four-fifths of greatest depth of body ;
vertex concave, muzzle obtuse rounded ; mouth terminal, end of maxillary
terminating opposite posterior nostril. From end muzzle to dorsal (1st ray)
ths from latter to origin of caudal. Ventrals origin exactly under first dorsal,
broadly truncate, not quite attaining vent. Base of anal nearly equal its an-
terior ray, outline slightly concave. Base of dorsal two-thirds height anteri-
orly. Pectoral anterior rays shortened, medial not quite reaching the ventral.
Operculum one-third higher than long. Eye, diameter one-fourth length of
head, and once below its rim to upper preopercular ridge. Frontal width one-
lialf length head above. Scales JL f about twenty-three on the dorsal line in
front of third dorsal fin Radial formula D. 1. 8 ; C. 4. 19. 5. A. 1. 9. V. 8 ; P. 1.
15. Coloration of an adult male : dorsal region as far down as the fourth row
of scales dark impure blue, divided by an indistinct band of yellowish-olive one
and a-half scales wide, which follows the outline of the back ; bordering the
dark below is a luminous line which does not attain the tail, which is very
visible in the water, and from above when wet and out of water. Sides from
rosy to silver-white, the scales in adults blackish at bases ; anal, ventral and
pectoral tins bright crimson in spring and summer, in males. Operculum rosy,
head dark above. The males in spring have the branchiostegal membranes
and the chin bright crimson.
Total average length 5 in. 7 lin. ; head 1 in. 1 1. ; end muzzle to base anal
3 in. ; depth at dorsal 1 in. 4 1.; at anal 11-5 1.
The above description is taken from an adult from the Conestoga in Penn-
sylvania, tributary to the Susquehanna. It applies equally well to all indi-
viduals of the species, except as pointed out under the heads of the varieties,
respectively. Nevertheless, the specimens from the Susquehanna are frequently
distinguishable from those of the Delaware. Numerous specimens from
Michigan agree with the former in having a more elongate form of head and
body than specimens from tributaries of the Delaware. They often differ
from those of the Susquehanna in having a row of scales more below the
lateral line. In Delaware specimens the head is shorter than in the latter, not
more so than in the former, but the depth of the body is greater than in either,
entering in length to base of tail 3} times in the others 4 and 4^ times. The
dorsal fin is a little more anteriorly situated in the Delaware specimens, and
there is a row of scales more below the lateral line than in Susquehanna speci-
1867.]
