160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
mens. With typical specimens only, these might be regarded as representing
two species, and as such I have already alluded to them; but in the 1
number of individuals at my disposal, I find transitions in all the points. The
Delaware specimens more nearly resemble the II. c r n u t u s, figured by Dr.
Storer.
General Habitat. Eastern. Middle and Western States ; head waters of the
James River. There is nothing in the description of Plargyrus argentatus Girard
(1. c. 212). from the lower James River, to distinguish it from this variety.
II. c. cyaneus.
Scales of the whole dorsal and ventral regions very small, 31 to 40 in front
of dorsal fin; on sides 10 40 4. Colors very dark; above blackish-blue, all
the scales black at their bases ; head entirely black ; pectorals black : ventrals
with a broad black band and red tip ; anal black in front, dorsal chiefly black ;
membrane of caudal blackish. In a specimen 5 in. 10-5 lines long, the orbit
enters the head 4-5 times. Small tubercles extend from muzzle to vertex, are
numerous on the sides of the former to rictus oris, and form a strong crest on
mandibular and suborbital bones.
This well-marked variety was taken in the Montreal River, Keeweenaw Point,
on Lake Superior, by John H. Slack, M. D., to whom the Academy is indebted
for a number of specimens.
Hypsilepir coccogenis Cope.
Spec, now
The general form of this fish is moderately stout, the head elongate and
straight, with large eye. The caudal peduncle is neither narrow nor broad ;
the dorsal outline very little elevated. Length of head four and a quarter
times in total without caudal fin ; greatest depth scarcely less than length of
head. Diameter of eye three-fourths of frontal width, and greater than dis-
tance between its lower margin and gular plane. Scales of typical form 7 42
3. The fins rather small ; pectorals extend little more than halfway to ven-
trals. and the latter do not reach the vent. External margin of anal as long as
from end of muzzle to preopercular line, or as long as pectoral; fronrmargin
of dorsal equal the same, and greater than posterior margin of same.
The colors of this fish are very pleasing. Belly and sides silver white, or in
the breeding season rose-colored, bounded above the lateral line by a leaden
shade. Back olive, with sometimes a brown dorsal band, sometimes the scabs
heavily Idack margined. The head blackish above, and a deep black band on
the scapular arch. Muzzle and lips with a broad band behind the edge of the
preoperculum and axillary spot, crimson. Dorsal fin broadly black-handed
on margin, yellowish-banded medially, and crimson at base. Colors of the
caudal similar, without the crimson; inferior fins milky white.
Dimensions of an adult specimen :
In. Lin. In. Lin.
Total length 5 2 Depth at occiput 8-5
Length muzzle and chin 4-f> " at dorsal 1
Diameter orbit 3-75 " at caudal peduncle.. 5-25
This species is only second to the II. cornutus in size, and first in the
genus in beauty. Its particolored fins and crimson cheek stripe render it
easily recognizable. The latter feature gives it its name. It occurs in abun-
dance in the clear and often rapid creeks that flow into the north and middle
forks of the Holston River in Viginia. Taken in the Ninth month.
IIypsilepis GALACTi'iirs Cope.
Spec. nov.
The general form of this fish is fusiform, the inferior and superior outlines
converging equally. The superior cranial outline descends gently and equally;
the muzzle is more than usually prolonged beyond the mouth. The end of the
[Dec.
