NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161
maxillary stands opposite the nares. The eye is smaller than in the other spe-
eies, excepting H. analostanus, entering 5-5 times the length of the head
in old specimens. The head enters the total (exclusive of caudal fin) 4-3 times,
and the greatest depth 46 times. The exposed surfaces of the lateral scales
are not so much narrowed as in the other species, and the lateral line is but
little decurved ; nos. 6 41 3; eighteen anterior to the dorsal fin. Small
tubercles appear on the top of the head, the patch narrowed behind, and the
sides of the muzzle. The pectoral fins reach three-fifths the distance to the
ventrals, the latter the vent. The anal is larger than in most species, its outer
margin as long as from end of muzzle to middle of operculum. Dorsal elevated,
the height equalling depth of body at first anal ray in a male. Kays D I. 8.
C-J-19+- All. 9. V. 8. P. 14.
Dimensions of an adult :
In. Lin. In. Lin.
Total length 5 4 Depth at occiput 8-25
Length muzzle 3-75 " dorsal ll.W
Diameter orbit 2-75 " caudal peduncle 5-75
In life this species is steel gray above, and silver beneath ; the inferior fins
are milkj r , and the dorsal and caudal iron grey sprinkled with blackish. The
hinder portion of the former has the membrane black and the rays cream col-
ored, and the whole base of the caudal is cream yellow.
This fine species is abundant in the tributaries of the Holston River in Virgi-
nia. Many specimens are in the museum of the Academy.
It resembles the H. analostanus in its proportions of eye and head, but
is more elongate in body. The largest specimens are more than twice the size
of the largest of the latter.
Hypsilepis analostanus (Girard) Cope.
Leuciscus kentukiensis Kirtl. Journ. Bost. Soc. Nat Hist. V. p. 27 (not of Rafi-
nesque). Cyprinella do. Cope, Proc. Acad. Phila. 1854, 279. Hypsilepis do.
Cope, Trans. Am. Phila. Soc. 1866, 371. Cyprinella analostana Girard, Proc.
Acad. Phila. 1859, 58. Cope 1. c.
The dorsal and ventral outlines are regularly and gently arched from the
end of the muzzle and contract to a caudal peduncle ot about the depth of the
head at the middle of the orbit. The dorsal region is quite compressed, the
ventral narrow but not carinate in front of the vent. Eye round, contained 4-5
times in length of head, and 1-5 in length of muzzle ; the latter is narrowed
and projects slightly beyond the mouth, most so in males in breeding season.
Oral margin arched, end of maxilla opposite middle of nares. The greatest
depth of the body is greater than the length of the head, and enters the total
(including caudal fin) four and one-fifth times. Tail short, deeply and con-
cavely emarginate. Anal fin less developed than dorsal, its base nearly equal
height of first ray, and just exceeding base of dorsal; latter a little over \
greatest elevation of the same.
General color leaden silvery, darkest on the sides, the scales above and be-
low, a dorsal band and large spot on hinder part of dorsal fin, blackish; top of
head and median margin of anal fin shaded with the same. In spring and
summer the inferior fins, and even the tips of the caudal and anterior part of
the dorsal, are filled with a satin white pigment, which has a very elegant ef-
fect, and gives the fish its local name of " Silver Fin." At the same period
the head and muzzle cf the male are studded with small tubercles, as follows :
a conic accumulation on the end of the muzzle, prolonging it ; a series round
the mandible, also over the orbit, from an agglomeration on the preorbital
bone ; a double series of larger tubercles on each side the frontal region, which
join between the nares and on the parietal region ; scattered series on the tem-
poral region.
1867.] 11
