162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
Total length 3-375 inches ; caudal 5 ; from its base to first ray of anal 1 in.;
to first dorsal ray 1-44 in.; from latter to end of muzzle 1-56 in.
This species is abundant in the various tributaries of the Ohio ; it is also
common in all the waters of the Susquehanna examined (Octoraro, Conestoga,
Juniata, Meshoppen) and in the Potomac (Girard) ; from the Delaware I know
It from the neighborhood of Trenton (C. C. Abbott) and Philadelphia (J.
Burk), Conshehocken on the Schuylkill. From the James River, Va.
It is also abundant in the Kanawha and its tributaries, but is not known
from the Holston. It is chiefly to be found in the quieter parts of river chan-
nels and back waters, being comparatively rare in creeks.
Dr. Girard described specimens of this species from the Potomac as distinct
from those of the Ohio, without making comparisons. I undertook to sub-
stantiate the differences and gave the following as distinctive features of the
Eastern and Western fishes :
5 (6)
Head 3f to 4 times in length to base of tail. Scales 32 5 for the Eastern.
2-(3)
67
Head'4j times ; muzzle more acute. Scales 3S 40 for the Ohio type.
34
These represent the tendencies of the individuals of these regions correctly,
but the exceptions to the rule are not rare ; thus a Schuylkill specimen before
me exhibits a head 4 times in length and has an acute muzzle, scales of lateral
line 38. Seven rows of scales above the lateral line in a Youghiogheuy speci-
men, include some abnormally intercalated, but not a true series; about half
the Delaware specimens exhibit six. Four rows below the lateral line has
resulted from counting an elevated abdominal series. In two Ohio specimens
the anal radial formula is identical with that of the eastern, 1-9, while in five
the formula is 1-8. Thus this species exhibits an unusual range of variation.
Dr. Kirtland identifies this species with the Leuciscus (Luxilu*) kentukiensis
Rafinesque, but this cannot be correct, as the latter is described as having red
fins, a characteristic always wanting in the H. a n a 1 o s ta n u s.
Hypsilepis dipl-emia Raf.
Leuciscus diplkmia Raf., Ichthyologia Opiensis, p. 50. Luxilus do. Kirtland,
Bost. Journ. N. H. 1845, 276, Tab. PUrgyrus do. Girard, Proc. Acad. Phila.
1856. Hypsilepis do. Cope, 1. c. 1864.
This species has somewhat the form, as it has the coloration and minute
nuptial excrescences of the species of Clinostomus; as in them, the dorsal fin
commences slightly behind above the origin of the ventrals ; its hinder margin
is opposite the origin of the anal, to which the ventrals attain. Anal elon-
gate, its last ray horizontal, outline behind, vertical concave. Dorsal elevated,
rounded above, length of first articulated ray one-half from its base to base of
caudal. Radial formula D I. 9 P. 12. V. 8. A I. 11. 0.4-18+. Dorsal outline
elevated, superior line of cranium scarcely arched, head rather compressed ;
body rapidly narrowing to caudal peduncle at dorsal and anal fins. Caudal
expanded, deeply emarginate.
In the breeding season minute asperities cover the dorsal line in front of the
dorsal fin, and appear on the upper and lower aspects of the head. The latter
are most abundant on the preorbital region ; on frontal region sparse, minute.
Rows on the superciliary and lower edge of suborbital regions, and two on each
ramus mandibuli.
Length of head four times in length to base caudal, and less than depth of
body. Scales of anterior dorsal region much smaller than those of the lateral ;
latter with exposed surfaces very narrow, and crested with minute tubercles in
the breeding season.
Color, dusky above, the sides and belly silvery without band ; below crimson
[Dec.
