NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 163
in spring. A large black spot at base of dorsal fin. Length extends to four
inches, according to Prof. Kir t land ; of a specimen in Museum Academy, from
Lansing, Michigan, 2 inches to origin caudal ; 12-5 lines to origin dorsal ; 6
lines to opercular margin ; depth 7 lines.
Prof. Kirtland states that it is abundant in all western streams, and that it
ascends rapids in shoals in spring for the purpose of depositing its eggs.
Hypsilepis ardens Cope.
Spec. nov.
Length of head 4-33 times in total; orbit equal muzzle, its anterior border
reached by the end of the maxillary ; mandibular symphysis projecting slightly
beyond the end of the muzzle. About 26 rows of scales in front of dorsal fin.
Anterior dorsal ray opposite the middle of the ventral, the posterior opposite
the first anal. The first anal nearly as long as the longest dorsal, the fin elon-
gate, concave behind ; it is nearly reached by the ventrals. Pectorals extend
half way to ventrals. Cranium slightly arched transversely above ; inter-
orbital space *25 greater than diameter of orbit. Opercular and preorbital
bones deeper than long.
Dorsal region yellowish olive, the scales black edged to middle of sides, all
rose shaded. Sides, belly and head rosy crimson, muzzle approaching Vermil-
lion ; suborbital region purple. Dorsal and anal fins vermillion, the former
black at base ; pectorals and ventrals rose. Caudal orange red, blak lined.
Length of largest specimen 3 in. 2-5 lines; to base dorsal 17-5 lines; latter
to base caudal 14-5 lines. Depth at orbit 3-5 1.; at first anal ray 5-25 1.; at con-
striction caudal peduncle 3 1.
Habitat. The head waters of the Roanoke River (in Montgomery Co., Vir-
ginia). One of the most richly colored fresh-water fishes.
PHOTOGENIS Cope.
Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. 1866, 378.
This genus was established for species agreeing in general characters with
Hybopsis, but resembling Alburnellus in dentition. The mouth is not small,
the orbits and scales are large, and the form generally slender. The species
frequent clear streams, are less common in swift rapids, and never occur in
stagnant or muddy waters. They are ornamented with lustre almost exclu-
sively, and do not develope conspicuous horny tubercles.
The present collection contains three new species of the genus, which are
here added to the three already known :
A. Anal radii I. 10, in one species I. 9. (No black spot
at origin of caudal fin.)
a.A. Dorsal fin much nearer origin caudal than end of
muzzle.
Scales (5) 6 39-40 3. Diameter eye equal length muzzle ;
33 times in head ; latter 4 to 4-5 in length ; depth in same
5-6 5 times ; above olive ; sides silver, in a band on
caudal peduncle. Anal radii I. 10 P. leucops.
Frontal width three-fifths orbit. Scales 7 35 3. Orbit
diameter greater than length muzzle, 2-75 times in head;
depth 4-75 in length ; lateral line much decurved ; silvery
below, fins unspotted. Anal radii I. 9 P. ariommus.
a. Dorsal fin equidistant between origin caudal and
end muzzle.
Scales 4 (5) 36-40 3. Diameter of eye exceeding length of
muzzle, 2-75 times in length of head ; latter 4-5 in length,*
depth 5 times. Head above and edges dorsal scales black-
ish ; sides and belly silver P. telescopus.
1867.]
Always to origin caudal.
