164 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP
AA. Anal radii I. 8.
. A black spot at origin caudal fin.
Scales 5 38-40 3. Orbit equal muzzle, 3-3 3-5 times in
length head ; latter 4-5 in length. Olive scales above
brown edged; sides silver, with a purple band; muzzle
and base dorsal red P. leuciodus.
at. No black spot at base caudal.
Head narrower. Scales 6 38 2. Orbit less than length
muzzle, 3-5 times in length head; latter times in total;
depth five times in same. A leaden lateral band ; middle
caudal and spot on dorsal black P. spilopterus.
Head broad, frontal width equal diameter orbit, which is greater
than length of muzzle, one-third length head. Scales 5-6
38 3. Head 3 75 4 times in length ; depth 4 4-5
times -. P. scabriceps.
Photogenis leucops Cope.
L. c. Squalius (Clinostomus) photogenis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1864,
280.
A species resembling some Alburni in its large caducous scales and attenu-
ated form. Eye over one-third head, round. Mouth quite oblique ; under jaw
scarcely projecting ; maxillary not reaching line of margin of orbit. Head en-
tering four and two-thirds times into length to fork of caudal ; greatest depth
seven times. Back broad. Fins D. narrow 8; C. 19, A. 1 10. V. little an-
terior to dorsal 9. P. narrow falcate 13, extending about half-way from their
origin to that of the ventrals. Scales with radii stronger than concentric lines.
From base of caudal to base of first dorsal ray, equal from latter to anterior
border of iris. Lateral line deflexed, rising with outline of belly at anal fin.
Above pale ochre, with a median brown line, and one on each side, from oper-
cular upper angle to tail. Sides and below bright silvery, especially brilliant
on the operculum and suborbital region. Lips blackish edged. Muzzle and
chin whitish. Length three inches.
This species has but five scales above the lateral line as originally described,
exceedingly rarely.
Three marked varieties of this species have come under my notice, as
follows :
*. Depth greater, equal from end muzzle to middle of operculum ; head
usually 4-5 times in length. Numerous specimens from the Kanawha, especially
from Sinking Creek and near Austinville, Wythe Co., Va.
an. Depth less, six times in length, equal from end muzzle to edge preopercle ;
head four times in length. Two specimens from Youghiogheny, Pa.
a.na (P. 1. engraulinus). Depth one-sixth of length, equal from end muzzle to
between orbit and pncoperculum, Head 3jf times in length. One specimen
from Austinville, Wythe Co., Va., from a tributary of the Kanawha.
Photogenis ariommus Cope.
Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila. 1866, 280.
This species resembles at first sight the Ph. leucops, but is less elongate.
On comparing an example of the latter, -25 longer, the depth of the body is the
Bame, and the eye strikingly larger ; the depth of the head the same, and the
muzzle shorter.
In this fish the operculum is deeply concave on its upper posterior margin,
and the inferior is shorter than the anterior; in P. leucops the former is
Btraight, and the inferior border equal the anterior. The dark lateral line is
faint or wanting in the ariommus, and there is no black vertebral band.
Placed alongside of a Hypsilepis cornutus of equal length, this fish is less
[Dec.
