NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165
deep, and has an eye of almost double the area, besides the different coloration
and generic features of teeth and scales.
Eye two and three-fifths in length head ; muzzle two-thirds its diameter ;
mouth large, mandible scarcely projecting, maxilla not attaining anterior mar-
gin of orbit. Frontal breadth three-fifths orbit. Pectoral fins reaching three-
quarters distance to ventrals. Depth caudal peduncle one-third from middle
origin caudal to opposite first anal ray. Basis of anal slightly elongate, four-
fifths height of same, equal basis dorsal ; latter equal two-thirds height of
dorsal ; last dorsal ray much less than half first, hence the outline of the fin is
very oblique. Caudal deeply furcate, length equal that of head. Length from
basis caudal to first dorsal ray equal from latter to above anterior part of orbit,
as in Ph. 1 e u co p s. Anal radii I. 9.
Light olivaceous sides and below silvery, becoming a band with superior
dark edge on caudal peduncle. Sides of head and muzzle white.
Total length 2-875 inches; base of dorsal to superior base caudal 1-06 inches ;
same to end muzzle 1-19.
This species has only been found as yet in the White River, Indiana, by Wm.
P. Clark, to whose attention I owe a single specimen.
Photogenis telescopus Cope, sp. nov.
A species combining an elongate form, short head and large eye, and nearly
allied to the last described.
Mouth very oblique (angle 60), mandible not projecting beyond premaxillary
when closed ; posterior margin maxillary on line of anterior margin of orbit.
End of muzzle slightly decurved, profile above nearly plane ; frontal region
flat transversely, the parietal region gently convex in section. Lateral line
slightly deflected. Posterior dorsal ray equal less than half the anterior, and
equal the basis to the sixth ray. Basis of anal greater than that of dorsal, a
little less than longest anal ray. Ventral fins fall short of vent, and are ap-
proached two-thirds the intervening distance by the pectorals. P. 14. D. and
V. I. 8. C. -|- 19+- Length of an average specimen 3 in. 6-5 lines ; end muzzle
to first anal ray 1 in. 11-5 lines ; depth caudal peduncle at posterior anal ray
3-75 lines.
In life this species is a pale sea-green, with distinct brown edges to the
scales. Lateral lustre plumbeous posteriorly.
This species is very abundant in all the rapid streams tributary to the Hol-
ston River in Virginia. It is very rare in the river itself.
Photogenis leuciodus Cope, sp. nov.
This species is allied to the P. telescopus, and may readily be confound-
ed with it, but the more delicate tints at once distinguish it in life, and the
smaller orbit strikes the eye on making comparison. As shown in the analytic
table, the characters are numerous. It is the only one of the genus adorned
with bright colors ; they are subdued, the purple and silver of the sides re-
sembling the nacre of some Uniones.
Muzzle rounded in profile, mandible not projecting, mouth oblique (30),
end of maxillary bone opposite margin orbit. Vertex gently convex trans-
versely. Twelve scales in vertebral line anterior to dorsal fin. Lateral line
nearly straight. Radial formula, except for anal, and lengths of fins as in the
last species. Longest dorsal ray measures twice from its origin to above
posterior margin or middle of orbit. End of muzzle and basis of dorsal fin red,
as in the young of Hypsilepis coccogenis.
Total length of a fully grown specimen 3 in. 1 line ; length to first anal ray
1. 8-5 lines. Depth caudal peduncle at last anal ray 3 lines.
This species is found in the tributaries of the Holston, in situations similar
to those where the P. telescopus occurs. It is, compared with the last
named, a rare fish. Numerous specimens in Mus. Academy.
18(57.]
