166 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF
Photogesis spilopterus Cope.
Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila. 1866, 280.
Form elongate, less so than in the Ph. 1 e u c o p s ; scales with the radii dis-
tinct 6 10, and the concentric lines very strong. Lateral line deflexed ante-
riorly. Orbit three and one-half times in length of head, equal length muzzle,
and is three-fourths the interorbital breadth. Head five and one-third times
in total length, equal length caudal fin. Muzzle straight above, mandible not
projecting when closed, end of maxillary attaining line of orbit. Premaxillary
margin opposite middle pupil. Pectorals two-thirds length to ventrals. Bases
of anal and dorsal fins equal, equal two-thirds height of former, three-fifths
height of latter. First dorsal ray a little nearer origin caudal than end muzzle.
Rays, D. 1.8. A. 1.8. V. 7 and 8." P. 13.
Length 2-875 inches, depth caudal peduncle at middle -19 in. Teeth in nu-
merous specimens 1-4 4-1.
Color olivaceous, with a plumbeous band along the posterior half the lateral
line; thoracic region and lower half the sides of head silvery, remainder of
head blackish. Median part of caudal fin, a spot on the upper hinder portion
of the dorsal, and a narrow vertebral line, black.
Many specimens of this species are in Museum Academy, from St. Josephs
River, in southwestern Michigan.
This species bears a superficial resemblance to the Hybopsis plumbeolus,
but apart from the difference of dentition, and the spot on the dorsal fin, this
species has a smaller eye, longer ventrals, etc.
Photogexis scabriceps Cope, sp. nov.
This species is readily distinguished from its congeners by its stout robust
form, heavy head, and large eye, and in life by miuute rugosities which cover
the front muzzle and chin, but which disappear, leaving no trace, in spirits.
Front and vertex flat, upper profile plane, end of muzzle obliquely descend-
ing. Mouth little oblique, mandible as long as muzzle ; extremity of maxillary
opposite line of orbit. The operculum is more posteriorly prolonged than in
the P. telescopus. Lateral line distinctly deflexed. Pins small, pectorals
and ventrals short ; radii as in the last species.
This species is not so refulgent as most others of the genus. In life it is of
a bright sea-green, with an ill-defined silver lateral band, which is leaden
shaded on the caudal peduncle. Dorsal streak reddish, scarcely perceptible in
alcohol.
Total length 3 in. 1-5 lines; width of cranium behind 4-2 lines; length of
caudal fin (equal from end muzzle to preoperculum) 5-75 lines.
This species occurs abundantly in the tributaries of the Kanawha River, in
company with the Ph. 1 e u c o p s, especially in Sinking C: eek, Walker's Creek,
and near Austinville. It occurs not rarely in the main channel of the river
also.
A Review of the species of the AMBLYSTOMIDiE.
BY E. D. COPE.
This family is of particular interest among the Urodela, as furnishing con-
necting forms between the ordinary types of the order, and those larger species
which we suppose to be more characteristic of Conner periods of the earth's
history. It also furnishes us with transitional conditions of characters which
have been regarded as indicating very diverse origin ami nature. The species
are mostly of large size, and are probably confined to North America ; perhaps
a species exists in Japan.
The characters which restrict the family are as follows :
Palatine boms not prolonged over parasphenoid, ^bearing teeth on their
posterior margins.
[Dec.
