6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
[nhabits r/alh on the grape leaf s tendrils and vine.
1/ ,ie Body moderately slender : abdomen sharply taper-pointed, with a few
scattering hairs at the extremity ; head short; neck thick. Body, head, legs,
and antennae Light yellow, the two latter palest ; a broad dark band encircling
the middle of the thorax. Win-- membranaceous, hyaline ; in repose, some-
what overlapping, rather wide or diverging behind the extremeties; in the only
entirely perfect specimen observed were slightly curved upwards. Anterior
.\ in lt wideBl in the middle, subobovate ; posterior margin one regular curve
or arc. of a circle from the base to the outer extremity ; apex completely
rounded and comparatively broader than I have observed of our common
Aphiche; anterior margin irregularly convex, the greatest convexity being
somewhat nearer the basal extremity, where it is considerably rounded for-
ward; a small, inconspicuous costal, and a yellowish strong subcostal nerve;
one dark discoidal springing from about the basal third or fourth of the sub-
costal and shading oil' or becoming lost in the membrane before reaching the
border; outlines of these nervures rather hazy, obscure, not sharply defined ;f
a Ioiili. very obscure branch passes longitudinally from near the middle of the
discoidal. iii -nine specimens scarcely, if at all, perceptible; part of the costal
-pace near the base, and an imperfect, undefined stigma, light fulvous. Poste-
terior wing, small, narrow: no discoidal nerve ; subcostal scarcely perceptible,
somewhat near the costal. Tibia- and tarsi with a few hairs or spines, a some-
what prominent one beneath the foot near the joint. The digituli, with their
conspicuously globulai extremities, arise from the extremity of the tarsi, just
above the (laws, and project beyond the long subcylindrical tarsi about one-
half their length, and aboul four times the apparent length of the compara-
tively thick, much curved, light horn-colored claws, as held when walking ;
these slender, almost hair-like appendages or fingers are smooth, slightly
curved downward, not tapering to the extremity, terminates in an abrupt, com-
plete globe of about two or three times the diameter of the pedicel. Antennae
long compared with those of the female, but moderate when compared with
those of some Aphidae ; pale whitish-yellow, inserted before the eyes, they
usually appear three-jointed, (and will be thus considered when examining with
;i good pocket lens, and more especially in the dried specimen, where we have
not the advantages of motion under the microscope, BO invaluable in the li\ ing
mien.) The extreme joint being very long, and under a higher power
annulated with about 'J.~> tine grooves, the mark- of the primary rings; but in
the discoidal is so verj obscure as to be easily overlooked, and, being a microscopic character,
might I"- rejected, but if retained we -till have the geuerio characters differing from liactylo-
a, ,1/ : Interi r wing with i an one-branched discoid. il. Anteuii.e :; s joint-. Tarsi two
digituli. In c.i- however, the characters given above should be sufficient to separate, generic-
ally, nitifoUs from D. globosrim, I would propose the generic name of Viteus for the former,
t I wish to I"' clearly understood regarding what 1 saw of these wing characters. Very prob-
ably they will not all t e admitted as i xixiing characters by elos< t investigation of the i rj
men. My examinations were all made in the recent state. With a good lens i be d sooidal nerve
can be seen not as a clear, Bbarply defined rib, hut as an obscure, hazy, margined line; the same
maybe iwddofthe BUbcostal nerve which, however, is much plainer, the discoidal branch not
observable,
Witl mpo I micros pe, of different inert vers, something more can be learned
in tie ite. All the veins are in an imperfect orpartiallj developed state; the wall* of tb^e
i i.i . nare nol - completely formed as to present th< Bhai p j defined lines observable in higher de-
\. loped iio-4'i ik. and with sufficient p. wer to discover the primitive cells, we behi Id I hem piled uj>
on ea h other- great blocks ol 'oscopic masonry the foundations of the walls of the veins.
I..i u i i g through the centn Dt the forming tube, the fii Id b] pears mi re trans] int, because we
do nol loi k ibroogli so great depth of the Imperfect tube walls as at the -!.; ibis central trans-
j . i r > in \ i I there hazj lines In ihe wii g Is, furthermore, an evidence that It i- b channel Pii the
liniii nth n of ii. i- bio d i be margins and termii atli nsof thesi v< ne appear baij bei ause the
cells axe in a 1< r diffuse state. In most Insects the walls of the veins are completed, hence
the rib> are oli irly defined Ihese remarks are peculiarly adapted to the ditcoidal nervure,
here the cells that nature has provided for the construction of the tube of the vein are to be
., , n i f d a vantage between ibe membranes ! the wing Tbi branch oi the dlsco<di
ilendei o pillary tube, with similarly Imperfect walls, I bbw In one Ring a taint trai fa
llary ullgmatic reivure In a small part of Its course. The bubcostal nerve of tlie posterior
wins Is in the ^ame nndtveloped condition and almost capillary microaci pic, 1 examined, thus.
avi iy p irtion ol the wings of my n <. Imens, elsewhi re 1 saw no trace of nerves, only the unifoim
[Jan.
