192
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
4057 1 New Mexico. Ed. Kern.
3984 Lac qui Parle, Minn. S. R. Riggs.
4693 N. Red River, H. B. T. C. Cavileer.
4081 2 Petaluma, Cal. E. Samuels, soft spec. desc.
Numerous specimens from near San Francisco in Mus. Compar. Zoology.
Amblystoma obscurum Baird.
M. S. Species nova.
In the greatly corrugated condition of the present specimen, it is impossi-
ble to make out any satisfactory description of the integuments. They, how-
ever, appear much as in the other stout aquatic species. The head is very
broad, and the gape unusually large. The internal nostrils are very large ;
their width half the diameter of the eye; the distance between their inner
borders is the same as that between the outer. The tongue is large, broader
than long ; its width about two-thirds that of the upper jaw.
The palatine teeth are in four series collectively, forming a broad inverted
V; the angle is anterior, and would be quite sharp but that there is an in-
terruption along the median line. The branches reach as far forward as the
anterior border of the inner nostrils. They are decidedly concave antero-
externally. The two inner anterior sections of the palatine series are each
about twice the length of the external ones; they fall short of the inner bor-
der of the inner nares by nearly a diameter of the latter, which space sepa-
rates them from the outer section, which, immediately behind the inner nares,
are about as long as the latter are wide, and do not pass exterior to their
outer border.
As nearly as can be ascertained, there are twelve costal furrows. The tail
is compressed, but not high.
The color appears to have been of a uniform brown above and on the sides ;
brownish-yellow beneath ; on the sides, darker vertical blotches can be de-
tected in the single specimen before me; similarly indistinct markings are
visible on the tail.
The very convex frontal region, and the concave interrupted series of teeth
alone distinguish this species from the A. mavortium of the brown variety.
It differs from A. tigrinum in much larger inner nares, and more widely
separated nostrils ; the inner borders of the two being at about the same dis-
tance, instead of having the latter more approximated. The tongue is wider,
as well as the head. The teeth are more V-shaped, reach farther forward ;
the outline of the limbs of the V is concave antero-extcrnally, and inter-
rupted by spaces equal to the wide nostrils; the outer sections not extending
beyond the nostrils.
Measurements.
In. Lin.
Length (along axis) from snout to gape 7-8
" " " gularfold 12.75
" " " axilla 1 8-75
" " ' groin 4 115
" " " behind vent 5 015
" " oftail 3 2-
" from elbow to tip of longest finger 12.75
" " knee " " toe 1 4 f.
Width of head at angle jaw 10 9
" between eyes anteriorly 61
" " external nares , 45
No. No. of spec. Locality. From Whom.
3994 1 Fort Des Moines, Iowa. W. F. Moore.
Amblystoma xiphias Cope.
Spec. nov.
The specimen selected as the type of the description has the skin somewhat
[Dec.
