NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 193
altered by alcohol, so that an exact description cannot be made of the glands,
pits and pores. There does not, however, appear to be any material differ-
ence from A. tigrinum in these respects.
The head appears small in proportion to the size of the animal, and the
cheeks unusually swollen ; the width of the head is contained five times in
the distance to groin. The mandible projects beyond the end of the muzzle.
The eyes are rather small, distant three lengths of the orbit. The inner nos-
trils are considerably more distant than the outer. The tongue is large and
fleshj', filling the rami anteriorly, and more than half the width of the head.
The inner nostrils are quite lateral.
The palatine teeth form a very obtuse angle anteriorly, reaching to about op-
posite the middle of the inner nares, and extending laterally beyond them by
about one diameter. There is a slight, interruption along the median line,
but no appreciable one elsewhere. The limbs of the V are not straight, but
form a double curve (scarcely appreciable) on each side.
There are twelve costal grooves ; others are not appreciable, except those at
the base of the tail.
The tail is very long, considerably exceeding the rest of the animal ; much
compressed from the base, though not elevated. Oval in cross section, and
only becoming sharp near the tip, without any crest. No grooves are visible
along dorsal or ventral outline.
There do not appear to be any peculiarities in the feet distinguishing it
from other aquatic Amblystomas.
The color of this species is a yellowish-olive ; brighter yellow beneath,
with more or less anastomasing or reticulating bands of well-defined brown
on the back and sides, and a few rounded spots of the same on the belly.
These bands in width average perhaps the diameter of the eye, though varia-
ble in this respect. '
Compared with A. tigrinum this species has a proportionally smaller
head, much longer tail, and different color ; yellow predominating in the
one, and brown in the other. The relationship, however, appears to be very
close. The digits perhaps are narrower, though also triangular and de-
pressed.
A large Amblystoma mavortium, No. 4705, from Fort Union, at the mouth of
the \ellowstone, with the same coloration as the preceding, differs in rather
shorter tail, the ridge of which is more acute ; broader toes ; and a con-
siderably broader and otherwise different head, the width of which is con-
tained about four times in distance from snout to groin, not five times.
The palatine teeth do not extend laterally beyond the centres of the inner
nostrils, which are separated more widely than are the outer. The tongue
is larger and more fleshy. The dusky marks on the tail are not reticulated,
but transverse, and the under side is dusky, not yellow. This very great
and marked difference in the form and size of the head of the two specimens,
although that with the smaller head is considerably the larger of the two, in-
dicates the distinctness of the species.
Measurements.
In. Lin.
Length (along axis) from snout to gape 7.25
" " " gular fold 1 0-
" " " axilla 1 11.25
" " " groin 4 2-5
" " " behind vent 5 3-
" of tail G
" from knee to tip of longest toe 1 31
Width of head at, angle jaw 10-5
" between eyes anteriorly '. 65
" external nares 3-7
1867.] 13
