191 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
Mus. No. No. of Spec. Locality. Donor.
4135 1 Columbus, Ohio. Leo Lesquereaux.
Amblystoma trisruptum Cope.
Spec. nov.
The species is stout and heavy in build ; the head very broad, and much
depressed. The skin is granulated by contraction of the alcohol, but in re-
spect to glands, pits, etc., appears much like other species. There is, how-
ever, a decided feature in certain particles which crowd the parotid region,
and are seen also on the top of the head along the inner margin of the orbit,
and perhaps below the eye. I have not noticed this character in any other
species east of the Rocky Mountains.
The head is broad, ovate, rather pointed anteriorly. The inner and outer
nostrils nearly the same distance apart. The tongue is broader than long,
more than half the width of the head, filling the interspace of the rami ante-
riorly.
The teeth are in four very distinct patches, with decided intervals. They
form one transverse series, nearly straight centrally (where they are in a liue
with the posterior border of the internal nares), but curving slightly back-
wards laterally. The two central patches are wider than the lateral, which
vary a little in length, and are separated by an interval half the diameter of
the inner nares ; their distance from the exterior patches is about twice as
great, the centre of the interval falling about opposite to the inner border of
inner nares. The outer patches extend about half a diameter beyond the
outer border of inner nares.
The remaining external characters of the specimen are not different from
those of A. t i g r i n u m.
The colors of the specimen are much obscured by preservation. It appears
to have been of a uniform dark blackish or bluish-brown, with a single series
of large transversely elliptical blotches of yellow from head to tip of tail,
half in body and half in tail, the foremost one rounded, and placed behind
the eyes. Those of opposite sides nearly meet on the back, and are confluent
on the upper edge of the tail.
This is the only species I have seen of the group in which a strictly trans-
verse series of palatine teeth behind the eye is divided into four groups.
Proportional dimensions.
Spec. 4068. Ocate River, N. M. $ .
Length of gape of mouth, to its width little more than half-
Width, to distance from snout to gular fold not quite equal.
" " groin 4 times.
From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from
snout to groin 3
Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit 3
" from eyes to nostrils " " lj-
" between external nostrils, " " not quite 2
" " internal " " " 2
Width of tongue, to width of head over
Free portion of longest finger contained in distance
from elbow to tip little over 3 times.
Free portion of longest toe contained in distance from
knee to tip 3
Distance between outstretched toes in length from snout
to groin about equal.
Length tail from behind anus, to rest of animal less.
Pec.
