NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 195
Measurements.
Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape '45
" " gular fold -90
" " armpit 1"45
k '< groin 3*15
'< '< behind anus 380
" end of tail .... 6-80
Width of bead ' 80
" tongue '45
" orbit " 18
Distance between eyes anteriorly '50
" " outer nostrils '22
" " inner " '30
" " armpit and groin l' y
Height of tail where highest , '46
Breadth " " '24
Free portion of longest finger '26
From elbow to tip of longest finger '90
Free portion of longest toe '29
From knee to tip of longest toe '96
Distance between outstretched toes 3 - 00
One spec. 4068. $ Ocate River, N. M., from John Potts.
Amblystoma jeffersonianum Baird.
Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. i. 283. Salamandra Green, Coutr. Maclurean Lyceum i.
p. 4, 1827 ; Holbr., N. Amer. Herp. v. 51, pi. 14. Triton mger Dekny, Geol.
Surv. N. Y. Zool. iii. 85, pi. 15, f. 35. Salamandra granulata Dekay, 1. c.
1842, 78, pi. 23, f. 66. Xiphonura jeffersoniana Tschudi, 1838, Class. Batr.
Gray, Catal. Brit. Mus., 1850, 34. Amblystoma fuscum Hallow., Journ. A. N.
Sci. iii. 355. Amb. laterale Hallow., 1. c. 352.
Body decidedly more slender and elongate than in A. punctatum. Skin
everywhere smooth, and showing through the transparent epidermis the ends
of the glands, which thickly stud the entire surface. Under a lens are seen
numerous small rounded, shallow pits between the glands, not on them. The
contraction of the skin, in strong alcohol, between these glands, would readily
impart a granulated appearance. The glandules are accumulated into a thin
stratum above the parotid groove.
The head is elongated, with the muzzle obtuse or truncate, the greatest
width contained one time in the distance to gular fold, and from four and
a half to five times to the groin; the distance to the gular fold is contained
three and two-thirds times in that to the groin. The eyes are rather large,
and situated far behind. They are distant once the length of the orbit from
the nostrils (which are separated by nearly twice this length). The anterior
extremities of the orbit are distant more than twice this length.
The gular fold or furrow is distinct, not very prominent above ; that behind
the angle of the jaws is inconspicuous, as is the lateral parotid furrow.
There are twelve costal furrows, including the inguinal and axillary.
The tail is a little shorter than the body and head (measuring from poste-
rior extremity of vent.) It is oval in cross section, largest below, though
without any ridge or crest. It is little higher than broad at the anus, but be-
comes more and more compressed to the tip, the upper and under outlines
remaining nearly parallel for a considerable distance. The anal slit is pro-
longed into a groove, which extends beneath the tail to its very tip.
The tail is curved strongly upwards in the alcoholic specimen, but this is
due to the corrugation of the spirit.
The limbs are largely developed, and the toes very long. The digits cylin-
drical, depressed, without any lateral or basal web. The third finger is long-
1867.]
