196 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF
est, then the second, fourth and first. It is one-third the length of arm from
elbow. The fourth toe is longest, then the third (but little shorter), second,
fifth and first ; it is contained about two and a half or two times in the length
of leg from knee. The expanse of the outstretched toes is very nearly equal
to the distance from snout to the groin. The length of the limbs varies a
little ; when extended on the sides they may scarcely meet, or considerably
overlap.
The tongue is thick and fleshy; much as in A. punctatum.
The teeth are in four patches ; the two central in nearly a straight line, or
forming in smaller individuals a very obtuse j, the angle anterior, but not
passing the posterior border of the internal nares ; the sides of the a are per-
haps slightly concave anteriorly. This patch or line extends to ihe inner
nares, and is there continuous with the lateral patches, which are short,
nearly straight, about one-fourth the central patch, and form the posterior
border of the inner nares. These are large, far back, and widely separated.
In alcohol, after long immersion, the specimen is nearly uniform light liver-
brown, paler beneath, without any spots.
Length from snout to gular fold -70
" " groin 2-55
" " endofanus 3-20
" remnant of tail 2-50
Width of head ! -50
Length of mouth, along median line -38
" forearm from elbow -62
" leg from knee -85
The specimen from which the preceding description has been taken, is, if
not the original upon which Dr. Green's species was founded, at least one
collected in the same locality and named by him, having formed part of bis
collection, and presented many years ago by its owner to the Smithsonian
Institution. The "light blue spots" so conspicuous in fresh specimens
have disappeared.
Dr. Holbrook, in describing this species has mixed with it the account of the
tongue and teeth of Plethodon glutinosus, which it somewhat resembles, but
which may be readily distinguished externally by the lighter silvery spots, and
much shorter digits. This induced Dr. Hallowell erroneously to make the
species a synonym of P. glutinosus. The error had its origin, no doubt, in
the nearer resemblence of the var. latt rale to the latter species.
A confusion of the specimen described with the type of DeKay's Salomon-
dra granulata, exhibits no appreciable difference except in the darker color,
rather more depressed toes, and perhaps more massive looking jaws of the
latter, the muzzle a little more pointed ; all uncertain characters in alcoholic
specimens. The palatine teeth are in better preserva'ion than in the speci-
men here described. The central patch is interrupted along the middle line
and does not extend quite so far laterally. The le^'s and digits ate much
lengthened, the figure and description of Holbrook (see DeKay) conveying a
very erroneous impression in this respect. The granulation referred to is
in part the optical effect of the glands of the skin, showing through the
transparent epidermis ; partly the result of contraction of the skin by
alcohol.
In the type specimen there are no symmetrically arranged patches of pores
on the head. Their absence may be owing to the long continued preserva-
tion of the specimens or to some accidental deficiency. In the type of gran-
ulata these are quite visible. They are very distinctly shown in No. 4688,
whcie there is seen a straight series interior to the eye and nostril (not
reaching to the latter), bending abruptly behind the eye and passing beneath
it. On the parotid region above the lateral groove is a slightly curved line
[Dec.
