NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 199
The body is cylindrical-depressed, with twelve costal furrows. The tail is
broken ; but from what is left appears to be somewhat compressed, but much
rounded.
The color in alcohol appears to be brown with a well defined broad dorsal
stripe of grayish brown, which involving the whole upper surface of the head
and neck contracts on the nape, swelling again on the back, with an average
breadth of the outer orbital space ; this stripe seems to extend to the end of
the tail. On each side of this dorsal stripe is a suffusion of dark
brown which gradually pales through the color of the sides into the belly ;
there are also a few spots of the same in the dorsal stripe. There are a few
grayish white dots scattered along the sides, and perhaps on the limbs.
Two specimens (4054) from Puget Sound, agree in form with the preceding
specimen ; the two central patches of palatine teeth perhaps a little more
angularly arranged, Instead of the grayish dorsal stripe, however, there is a
brownish red one, and the sides are of a darker and more continuous brown.
No. 4711 has a similar character of palatines but a coloration more like the
type. The palatines in fact extends a little in front of the anterior border of
the inner nostrils.
Proportional Dimensions of 4042.
Length of gape of mouth, to its width two thirds.
Width, to distance from snout to gular fold about .
" " " groin 5 times.
From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout to
groin 3 j.
Distance anteriorly between eyes, in length of orbit less than 2.
" between external nostrils one orbit.
" " internal "
Free portion of longest finger contained in distance from elbow
to tip about 2^.
Free portion of longest toe contained in distance from kneee to
tip 2|.
Distance between outstretched toes in length from snout to
groin about equal.
Number of costal furrows (including axillary and inguinal).... 12.
Measurements.
Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape *20
" " " gular fold -44
" " " armpit -65
" " " groin 1-50
" " " behind anus 1-82
" " " end of tail broken
Width of head -30
" tongue *17
Length of orbit *12
Distance between eyes anteriorly -20
" " outer nostrils *12
" " inner nostrils "12
" " armpit and groin -90
Height of tail where highest -18
Free portion of longest finger *15
From elbow to tip of longest finger *39
Free portion of longest toe *20
From knee to tip of longest toe *50
Distance between outstretched toes 1*40
Total length of a larger specimen 4 in. 4 1.
1867.]
