200 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF
Cat. No. No. of Spec. Locality. From whom received.
4042 1 Astoria, 0. Acad. Nat. Science.
4711 1 Simiahmoo. A. Campbell.
4054 2 Puget Sound. Dr. Suckley.
4035 2 (larva) Wash. Terr. (Aug. 1.) Dr. Cooper.
5982 14 Chiloweyuck Lake/Or'g Pr. C. B. Kennerly.
5248 1 Walla Walla, Ft. Benton. Lt. Mullen.
Amblystoma paroticum Baird.
Spec. nov.
This Salamander is of very peculiar character. It is one of the stout-bodied
species, in this respect about equal to A. punctatum, but with a broader
head.
In the type specimen (4708) the skin is remarkably free from pits, pores
and milk glands. These are found on the parotid region, both above and be-
low the horizontal furrow from eye to side of neck, which is swollen in conse-
quence. There is also a small patch on top of head, bordering the orbit ; a
patch on the spaces between the intercostal furrows, on the upper part of the
sides, extending, though faintly, nearly to the belly. Along the ridge of the
tail, bordered below by an indented line, the glands are thickly crowded. A
few scattered glands are seen along the back. Elsewhere the skin is perfectly
smooth and glandless, witli the muscle directly beneath it, although probably
when fresh the usual shallow pits of the group stud the skin thickly every-
where, as usual. These are distinctly visible in a second specimen, 4709. In
this, also, the glands are more numerous on the back, and extend farther
down the side of the tail.
The head is broad and depressed ; considerably constricted at the neck.
The eyes are unusually large and prominent for the genus ; separated anteri-
orly by about twice the length of their orbits ; distant from the nostrils less
than this length. The outer and inner nostrils are respectively about equi-
distant by little more than one length of the orbit.
The tongue is moderate, nearly orbicular, filling the rami only anteriorly,
and hardly more than half the width of the head.
The teeth are in four patches, forming a transverse series, slightly angular
anteriorly, where they extend to about opposite the centres of the inner nos-
trils. The two central patches are rather the larger, with a slight interval.
They extend postero-laterally nearly to the inner margin of inner nostrils ;
these are separated from the outer patches by an interval nearly the width of
the inner nostrils. The lateral patches extend a short distance beyond the
outer margin of the inner nostrils. The sphenoidal portion of the roof of the
mouth is much restricted laterally and behind.
The body is full, rounded and depressed; there are eleven costal furrows,
including inguinal and axillary.
The tail is compressed, but oval in cross section, with the lower edge rather
sharp towards the end; the upper outline is much rounded. It is not high,
and not as long as the rest of head and body ; longer than from snout to groin.
In one specimen there is a distinct furrow along the under side.
The limbs are large ; the digits lengthened, more depressed than in .1. /u//?o-
tntiiin, but linear, not triangular in shape. The lateral ones are more length-
ened than usual, and those of each limb are more nearly of a length. The free
portion of longest finger is more than one-third from tip to elbow ; that of
longest toe in the same proportion.
The gape of the head is wide; the length more than half the width. The
width of the head is contained four times in distance from snout to groin.
The color in one specimen is everywhere a dull reddish olive or brown,
paler beneath, and without the trace of any spots. No. 4707 is much darker
nearly black.
The Amblystoma trisruptum Cope, from Ocate Creek, is similar to the
[Dec.
