202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
enths the distance from canthus of mouth to external nostril. Fissure orbit
equal length from same to nostril, and enters 1-66 times width between the
latter; it is contained 2*25 times in width between anterior canthi of eyes.
Canthus rostralis marked at orbit, terminating very obtusely at nostril ; the
profile descends steeply from line of latter, not being prolonged as in A. t e u e-
brosum Thus from the line connecting middle of inner nares to lip is "75
external internarial distance, and -6 between anterior canthus of eyes ; in A.
tenebrosum, same equals internarial width, and -75 the distance between
eyes. The distances between inner and outer nares are the same ; the former
are round. The series of palatine teeth commence only opposite the middle of
the posterior margin of the internal nares, and describe a slight curve round
their inner margins to a point just in advance of their anterior, then turn ab-
ruptly inwards and slightly backwards, making a right angle with their pre-
vious course ; they converge but do not unite.
Tongue large, as broad as long. Gular fold well marked ; parotid groove not
visible, perhaps accidentally. It is difficult, as in the A. tenebrosum, to
distinguish the costal folds ; there are not more than 12.
The tail is short and stout ; its upper edge is much compressed, as is the
posterior half; its glandular structures are much less developed than in other
species of Amblystoma, the crypts of the crest being minute and globular.
Length of tail equal from its origin (posterior margin vent) to posterior outline
of sternum.
The extremities are very stout, just meeting when laid along the side. The
palms and soles are very wide, and the toes short and flattened ; they stand,
as regards length, behind 3 i 2 5 1 ; before 324 1.
The color is black above, lead-colored below.
In. I-in.
Length from snout to gape (flat proj.) 7'1
gular fold 12-75
axilla 19-1
groin 39'
end of vent 48*
end tail 6 6.
Width of head 9-75
tongue 5*2
between eyes anteriorly 5.
nostrils 4.
inner nostrils 3.
from eye to nostril 2-25
Circumference belly 236
Greatest height tail 5.4
width " 4-5
Free portion longest finger 2*5
From elbow to tip of do 9 75
Free part longest toe 3*
Knee to tip of do 11'
Extent of outstretched toes 3 3"1
No. 5242. From North Rocky Mountains. Lieut. Mullen.
Amblystoma tenebrosum Baird and Girard.
Pr. A. N. S. Phila. 1852, 174. U. S. Exp. Ex. Kept. p. 14, Tab.
This species forms the type of a special section of the genus, differing as it
does from all other Amblystomata of North America. It is especially character-
ized by its massive frame and huge size among true Salamanders, as well as
by other peculiarities hereafter to be mentioned.
The con ligation of the skin prevents any critical examination of its charac-
ter in respect to glands, pits, etc. It is certainly less glandular than in A.
[Dec.
