NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7
one specimen I fairly succeeded in resolving this extremity into five joints,
making in all really seven joints somewhat nearly equal ; first joint tumid,
very short; second short and thick also, but much smaller than the first,
truncately rounded at the outer end, with a somewhat prominent spine pro-
jecting from the anterior margin and a solitary capillary hair of equal length ;
third connected with the second by a narrow pedicel ; fourth slender, sinal .
thence the joints become gradually thicker towards the last ; fifth longest,
about equal to the third with its pedicel; sixth shortest excepting the basal j
seventh becoming obliquely tapering towards the apex, which sustains three
short spines. The pedicel, between the second and third, may be a very small
joint, (of which I am convinced, giving really 8 joints in all,) but of its exist-
ence I am not certain by ocular demonstration, therefore I do not give it place
as a positive character. The numerous grooves in the antennae much resemble
the line of uuion of very short closely embracing segments soldered together,
and are doubtless primary rings of embryonic development. Length to the
tip of the wings about -07 inch.
Female yellow, tumid ; abdomen gradually tapering to a short point : clumsy,
making little or no progress on a smooth surface, somewhat variable in size, ap-
pearing, to the naked eye, not much unlike a yellow immature grain of common
purslane (Portulaca oleracea, L.) seed. Like the Termite, increasing in size and
fertility as pregnancy continues ; its average length being somewhere about
three-hundredths of an inch ; segments more conspicuous above and beneath
than on the sides ; the globular-ended, or knobbed hair-like digituli of the tarsi
plainly seen projecting beyond all the feet about half their length, fornicate
cylindraceous ; also on each side of these, there is a prominent, accuminate,
hair-like spine, and between them a short spine of about, or somewhat less than,
half their length. Antennae 3-jointed, transversely rugose or imperfectly annu-
lose, nearly naked, sublinear, situated on the forehead in front of the eyes ; first
segment tumid or subglobose, short, of much the greatest diameter ; second
short, intermediate in diameter between the first and third, with a small spine
anteriorly ; third exceeding the first and second in length, subfusiform, the
obliquely pointed apex shortly bifid ; eyes small, few facets. Promuscis aris-
ing from about the anterior fifth, in a thick reclining stump-like base ; sheath
three-jointed (?), usually lying on the breast.
Larva somewhat depressed, elongate-elliptical, in the field of view from
above ; moderately active, yet slow when compared with other insects ; in the
field of a microscope of low power it can be examined with a good degree
of satisfaction before it travels beyond the field of view ; color light yellow-
prasinous : feet and antenna' as in the perfect female.
Egg prolate spheroidal; length about 2.V times the width ; pale greenish-
white; to the naked eye visible only as a fine dust point.
Pupa of the male somewhat longer and more slender than the mature female,
browner; legs longer, much more active; the short, brown, imperfect wings
diverging obliquely down the sides; antennae as in the mature female.
Gall. The vitifolise gall always opens on the upper side of the leaf, while the
gall of Dactylosphsera globomm, on the leaf of the Pig-Nut Hickory, (Carya
glabra), always opens on the lower side, and both are alike in being tree from
"any of the sugary dust, so common among the gall-producing Aphidse. It is
subglobular, quite rough on the outside, and of variable size, according to the
age, &c, well developed galls attaining the size of a pea. They are often very
numerous, almost covering the leaf, and in many cases the leaf is destroyed be-
fore the gall becomes fully developed ; occasionally they are located on the
thin cellular tissue connecting the two walls of the wing-bag. These are tacts that 1 believe
worth recording; others may receive them for what they an worth in classification. I can see
here somewhat satisfactorily the same plan of nenration, in an embryonic state, as given for the
genus Dactylospha ra, and i will not be surprised it specimens yet be found in abetter state of de-
velopment. The wing nenration of Dactylospha ra is synonymous with that of PhyUox< ra, (Proe.
Eut. Society, vul. j.. p. 297, fig. 8,) it is therefore upon the other characters that I found this genus.
1867.] '
