NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 203
punctatum or luridum, although scattered glands may he detected closely and
evenly distributed on the whole back and sides and on the chin : the remain-
ing under parts and snout before the eyes are smooth.
The head is very massively built ; large ; broadest behind the eyes and tri-
angular ; the sides being nearly straight to the narrow and rounded tip. The
eyes are very large and prominent, separated by less than two lengths of the
orbit, and distant less than one length from the outer nostrils, which are sepa-
rated by 1| orbits distance, and placed on the side below the distinct canthus
rostralis. The outer nostrils are much more distant than the inner, which are
very large, much excavated and have the external canal occupied by a soft
plaited membrane.
The tongue is thick and fleshy, nearly orbicular ; but angular anteriorly.
It fills up the lower jaw pretty well, and is more than half the width of the
head.
The palatine teeth are in two patches only ; each very slightly convex an-
teriorly, coming together at a slight angle with the apex backward, but sepa-
rated along the median line. Laterally the patches of teeth form the poste-
rior margin of the inner nares, and do not extend beyond their outer margin.
The entire series is thus posterior to the nostrils. In younger specimens the
series are more transverse, the inner extremities slightly incurved.
The width of the head is contained 1^ times in distance to gular fold, and 4
times to groin.
The body is rounded and depressed. There are 12 costal furrows.
The tail iu the two specimens before me is considerably less than half the
total length. It is much compressed from near the base, and the edges near
the end are quite sharp. It is far short of being as deep at the base as the
body.
The limbs are stout ; the digits, the fingers especially, are short, consider-
ably depressed, but linear and blunt at the tip ; the under surfaces of these
are somewhat swollen into a kind of bulb, which in alcohol contracts into
something the appearance of a disk. The third finger is longest, but is very
little more than the 2d, and this than the 1st and 4th. The third finger is
contained nearly 4 times in the distance from elbow to tip. The 4th toe is
longer than 3d in three specimens, in one the 3d exceeds the 4th a little, and
the same are nearly equal in case of the fingers.
The color of this species in alcohol is a kind of dark reddish-brown, pale
beneath, mottled and marbled above and on the sides with darker brownish ;
most distinct on the head, especially on the snout, where the skin is perfectly
smooth. The head shows a tinge of greyish in the ground color.
(For fresh color see the figure in Grirard's Herpetology of the United States
Exploring Expedition.)
There are two varieties of this species :
a. Where the loreal region is flat and the muzzle narrower before the or-
bits, and the marblings confined to the head ; the body being of a nearly uni-
form brown ; represented by specimens 4710 and 4053.
/?. The loreal region swollen in front of orbits, and hence the muzzle broader ;
the ground color greyish, with coarse brown marbling, like large hollow spots,
distributed over the whole upper surfaces of the body and tail. Represented
by No. 5981, and a large specimen (length 8 in. 6 lin.) in Mus. Academy Nat.
Sciences, from Body Bay, lat. 38 18 N., on the coast of California, procured
by our esteemed correspondent, George Davidson.
Proportional Dimensions.
Length of gape of mouth, to its width
Width contained in distance from snout to gular fold lj
groin 4
From snout to gular fold, contained in distance from snout
to groin little over 3 times.
1867]
