NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205
length of fissure ; external separated by one length of same, which is less than
the distance between inner nares.
Tongue small as in other young, but not fissured or grooved as in those of
the two following Amblystoinse. Palatine teeth forming an arched series
between nares extending to their anterior border, and not beyond their inner
border in the lateral direction. From their resemblance to those of A. micros-
tomum of the same age I suspect they are similar in old individuals.
Body rather slender; width of head at jaws four times in total length to
groin and - 75 length to gular fold. Tail short, longer when older, equal from its
basis to axilla. Limbs moderately stout, digits elongate, third and fourth
toes nearly equal, then 5th, 2nd, 1st. Fingers 3, 2, 4, 1.
Above light brown, with a series of light spots along upper part of sides ;
these are small and one between each pair costal fold. Sides and belly
yellow.
In. Lin.
Length end muzzle to can thus oris 2-6
to axilla 6"5
to groin 14.
toendtail 2 3.75
elbow to end finger 3*1
knee to end toe 3-7
Mm.-!. No. No. Specimens. Locality. Collector.
4044 11 San Antonio, Texas. J. D. Graham.
The plane front and canthus rostralis of this species form a resemblance to
the A. tenebrosum, between which and A. micro'stomum it is naturally placed.
Amblystoma cingulatum Cope, sp. nov.
This species approaches the A. microstomum in general, but may be readily
known by its more elongate ovoid head, with long muzzle, more slender form
of body and peculiar coloration.
Mucous crypts and pores are not much developed in this animal, a few only of
the latter extend along the superciliary region. The costal folds aie visible
across the abdomen.
The head is elongate, convex both transversely and longitudinally ; the
upper face of the muzzle is narrowed, and projects beyond the mandible.
The width at the jaws enters the length to the groin six and a half times, and
one and three-fourths to the edge of the gular fold. The external nares are
quite close together, nearer than the long diameter of the eye, and nearly
1*5 this diameter in advance of the eye. The anterior angles of the latter
are 2-33 diameters apart. The folds on the side of the head and neck are as
in other species. The distance between the inner nares is 1*66 times the dis-
tance between the external.
The tongue is oval, quite elongate, but not filling the space between the
rami of the mandible ; its median groove strongly marked. The palatine
teeth are in a single row slightly convex forwards, entirely between the inner
nares, their posterior margins of the ends of the series and nares correspond-
ing. The gape of the mouth is short, but longer than in .1. microstomum ;
its external canthus falls anterior to the posterior canthus of the eye, while
the anterior canthus of the same measures the posterior third of the gape,
commencing at the middle of the premaxillary region.
Costal grooves fourteen ; a median dorsal groove strongly marked. An
unusually strong fold across between angles of mandible, which sends a
branch to the orbit ; gular fold continued on neck, sending a parotoid groove
forwards. Length to gular fold 3 - 75 in length to groin.
Length of tail nearly equal from basis of same to the mental cross fold. It
is of rather uniform depth, much compressed, keeled above and for its distal
half below. General form of the body slender and compressed, elevated at
the scapular and pelvic regions.
18(37.]
