206 PROCEEDINGS OF TDE ACADEMY OF
Limbs stout, the fingers slender but not very elongate. Appressed to the
sides they fail of meeting by the length of the sole and longest toe ; length
from tip to tip when outstretched "66 Length to groin. Length of lower leg
and foot scarcely "8 from muzzle to gular fold. No visi'de plantar tubercles.
Fourth toe distinctly longer than third, then 2, 4, 1. Fingers 3, 2, 4, 1.
Color in alcohol hlack, the under surfaces thickly speckled with grey. A
vertical narrow grey line passes between every pair of costal folds and meets
its fellow on the dorsal line or bifurcates to meet a similar bifurcation in like
manner, embracing an area. These narrow annnli extned nearly as far for-
wards as the orbits and surround the tail to its extremity. Muzzle black.
In. Lin.
Total length 3 (i.
Length to canthus oris (straight) 2.25
gular fold 6.
groin 18.7
Width of head 3.2
above femora 2.25
The shades of coloration in this creature are those of the A. opacum, but
are differently arranged.
No. 3786 ; 1 spec. Grahamville, S. Ca. Bailey.
Amblystoma microstomum, Cope.
Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, p. 123. " Salamandra porphyritica Green,"
Hallowell (not of Gr^en), hinc Amblystoma porphyriticum Hallowell. Proc.
A. N. Sci. 1856, p. 8.
This species is among the most slender of American Amblystomata, and has
other peculiarities by which it is readily recognizable. The skin is very
smooth and slippery, with the glands less evident in the skin than in A. opacum
jeffersonianum, etc. The skin is everywhere covered with small shallow pits
only visible when the mucus is removed, which shows the tail to be some-
times conspicuously granulated, the granules probably corresponding to the
ends of the glands. There are no evident pores or pits of larger size than the
others on the head and parotids as in some Amhlystomata.
The head is very small, narrower than the body, with little or no construc-
tion at the neck. It i- contained about six and a half to seven times in the
distance to the groin. The head is much arched in every direction ; the eyes
far forward and lateral. The lower jaw projects a little beyond the border of
the upper, concealing the latter when viewed from above. The eyes are dis-
tant, less than the length of the orbit from the nostrils ; their anterior ex-
tremities separated by one and a half times this unit. The nostrils are one
orbit length apart. The anterior edge of the orbit falls opposite the middle
of the gape, instead of in its posterior third, as in A. jeffersonianum. The gular
fold is distant from the snout one-fifth the distance to the groin.
The body is slender for the genus. There are fourteen costal furrows, in-
cluding the inguinal and axillary. There is a slight indication of a dorsal
groove posteriorly.
The tail is about two-thirds the head and body. It is nearly cylindrical at
base ; tben becoming slightly compressed, more and more so to the tip, where
it is quite flat, but without crest, although the edges are sharp. Viewed
from the sides, there is a constriction at the base of the tail ; this is one-
fourth higher in the middle than at the base.
The limbs are weak, the digits are, however, rather long, cylindrical depres-
sed, without membrane. The proportions of the digits as in A. punctatum.
The longest finger is not one-third the fore arm ; the longest toe is a little
more than one-third the leg from knee. The outstretched hind legs are about
two-thirds the head and body to groin.
The tongue is thick, fleshy and attached, although slightly free at sides and
[Dec.
