NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209
which it includes, he might have readily been brought to the necessity of
according with the views above quoted. But a correspondence with nature
has required the recognition of protean species, as in a higher grade of char-
acters we are compelled to recognize protean genera. These groups are, per-
haps, those in which, respectively, certain characters are, for the time
being, undergoing a transition, which transition may at some period
cease.
The serial relation of species has been above alluded to. This is far less
obvious, however, than the serial relation of genera. This does not, how-
ever, interfere with the entire isolation of the latter from each other as re-
gards any single geologic period, considered by itself. The naming of groups
of species which do not present this isolation, though prevalent in some
branches of zoology, is, in our estimation, a violation of the meaning of the
name genus, and very disadvantageous to science. It is, of course, of no con-
sequence to science whether a genus contains one or a thousand species, and
for the student they can be as well classified and characterized in the latter
case as the former. In the multiplication of names a new burthen is im-
posed but what shall we say when these co ue to apply to something
"vaguely defined," or "for which no technical description ca. be found" !*
II. Species of Amblystoma unknown to the writer.
Ambhjstoma punclulatum Gray, Catal. Batrachia Gradientia, Brit. Museum,
37,1850.
Said to be from Monterey, California. The description is too brief to enable
us to recognize or place it.
III. Descriptions of two new Pacific species of Plethodon Tsch.
Plethodon intermedius Baird.
This new species, in general appearance, proportions of body, etc., is very
similar to P. erythronotus, although abundant differences are easdy discovera-
ble. The bod?, as in erythronotus, is slender and depressed ; the tail, as far
as indicated by the portion still remaining, is slightly compressed.
There are no apparent peculiarities about the head. The tongue is elon-
gated, elliptical, without posterior emargination. There ar 14 costal furrows,
or perhaps 15, if we include one above the axilla. The distance from snout
to axilla is contained rather less than three times in that to groin.
The digits are well developed ; more as in P. ghitinosus. There is little if
any indication of web at their bases ; the three terminal phalanges of the 3d
and 4th toes being free. The 2d and 4th toes are about equal. The outer toe
is not more than half the 2d ; the 1st finger and toe are almost rudimentary.
The 3d finger is decidedly longer than the 2d.
The dorsal surface of this species is traversed by a broad brownish-red
stripe, extending from the nape to the end of the tail, the sides regular and
nearly parallel, though more separated towards the middle of the back, where
it is as wide as the interorbital space. The stripe is sparsely dotted with
dusky throughout its extent. The sides are abruptly blackish-brown on each
* Another example of this mode of procedure may be found in a classification of the
Crocodilia, by Dr. Gray, in the Trans. Zool. Society, London, 1867, which only needs to be
read to explain the applicability of the above remarks. The absence of all contrast in
many of the generic tables is because they do not exist as such in nature.
It may be added in this connection that the writer omits dates of publication of the
names of the genus Osteoltemus Cope, the latter having over a year priority over Halcrosia
Gray, the name adopted. He calls the species //. niijra from the Orvcodilus niger of La-
treille, H. N. Kept, page 210 (not 510, as given by Gray), a species based on the MS. notes <;'
Adanson, with the only description that it is black, and that its jaws are longer than those
of the Crocodilus of the Nile. Should such a description be sufficient to establish a spe-
cies, which we greatly doubt, it is enough to indicate its inapplicability to this present one,
that the jaws of the Osteolaemus tetraspes are always much shorter than, those of the
Crocodilus vulgaris, a fact readily determined by reference to Dr. Gray's essay itsel f.
1867.] 14
