210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
side the dorsal stripe, at first continuous, but becoming more and more inter-
rupted by mottling. The belly is light brownish-yellow, thickly mottled with
dark brown in about equal proportions ; tightest under the chin. There is a
dusky line from the eye to the point of the muzzle.
The general proportions and structure of this species are more those of P.
glutinosus than of erythronotus, although slenderer of body. In both there are
about 14 costal grooves. The outer digit in intermedins is nearly rudimentary
instead of prominent, as in the other species.
A distinguishing feature, wheu compared with cinereus and erythronotus, is
found in the 14 instead of 18 costal grooves, the fore and hind limbs being
thus less widely separated proportionally. The legs are slender and the digits
much less webbed (scarcely at all, in fact). The 3d and 4th toes, especially,
are much longer.
Independent of the structural peculiarities I find nothing in the color to
distinguish this species from erythronotus.
Measurements.
Length (measured along axis of body) from snout to gape "14
gularfold -45
" " i " armpit *65
" " groin 1-80
" " " behind anus 2-15
end of tail 3-U5
tail 1-50
Width of head ' -25
tongue '15
Length of tongue *24
orbit 09
Distance between eyes anteriorly *15
Circumference of belly 80
Distance between armpit and groin 1.25
Height of tail where highest '17
Breadth do. - 16
Free portion of longest finger ('7
From elbow to tip of longest finger *31
Free portion of longest toe "11
From knee to tip of longest toe '37
Distance between outstretched toes 1*10
Cat. No. No. of Spec. Locality. From whom received.
4732 1 Fort Tejon/Cal. J. Xantus (type of descr.)
(iG35 1 Coal mines, Vancouver Isl. Alden W. llewson.
Plethodo.n ckoceater Cope.
The largest species of the genus, and one of the most ornamented of the
American salamanders.
hi primary features this species is near the P. e n s a t u s (Heredia oregonensis
Girard.) having the attachment of the tongue along the median line, quite
narrow, and a very narrow free margin in front. The palatine teeth form two
long- transverse separated arcs, which are directed more posteriorly at their
median than exterior extremity, the latter extending further outside the outer
margin of the inner narcs than the transverse diameter of the same. The tail
is subcylindrical and slender, compressed and narrowed in section below. No
prominent glandular agglomerations or pores. Only three phalanges in the
fourth toe.
Form of head peculiar ; it is very broad, with straight converging maxill-
ary outlines and truncate muzzle. Upper surface much narrowed on muzzle,
loreal regions plane, very oblique, canthus rostralis not marked. Maxillary
outline obliquely spread at and behinds orbits, where it is exceeded by the
[Dec
