NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211
projecting margin of the mandible. Anteriorly, with the end of the muzzle it
projects considerably beyond mandible. Muzzle truncate in profile, a slight
emargination at middle of premaxillary border, and a groove on each side of
it on inferior projecting face of lip. Nares terminal some distance above the
angulation of the lip, continued below in a groove which bifurcate.- 1 mar lip
margin ; the posterior line extending a short distance, the anterior to the me-
dian emargination separating the anterior from the inferior plane of the muz-
zle. Eye large, not very prominent, its anterior canthus well in front of middle
of jaw, and separated one diameter from nostril, and 1-5 from the other ej r e.
No fold across from angle to angle of mandible, but the gular, parotoid and
postorbital grooves well marked. Costal grooves indistinct, thirteen. Skin
everywhere very smooth.
Tail longer than head and body by the length of the mouth. Width at
curve of mandible 4-6 times in length to groin. Extremities slender and long ;
when pressed to the sides the fingers extend to the heel. Length of whole
fore limb 2-75 times in length to groin. Inner finger very small, half the length
of the fourth ; third longer than second. Sole narrow, longer than the longest
toes. Inner toe less than one half the fifth ; third a trifle longer than fourth ;
second much longer than fifth. Lower leg *75 thigh to groin.
Patches of parasphenoidal teeth two, in contact anteriorly, well separated
from palatine. All the teeth minute, numerous, acute cylindro-conic. Tongue
with rather straight lateral and posterior outlines.
Color throughout pitchy black, fading into bright red orange below ; limbs
orange, a blackish cross band below the knee. A large red orange spot on
each parotoid region, and four smaller irregular similar spots on the body to
base of tail, on each side of and near the vertebral line. A pair of orange spots
at base of tail, and a distant series on the upper face of the tail.
Measurements.
In. Lin.
Length (measured along axis of body) 5 -11
" From sonut to gape, (on front) , -5
" " gular fold -8
" armpit 1 0-75
" " groin 2 5.
" " centre of anal slit 4.5
Width of head 6-75
tongue 3-75
Length of orbit 2.2
Distance between eyes anteriorly 3-3
outer nostrils 2-3
inner nostrils 2.
Heighth of tail where highest 3-
Breadth " " " 2-5
Free portion of longest finger 2.25
From elbow to tip of longest finger 7-25
Free portion of longest toe.. 2-75
From knee to tip of longest toe 8-5
Distance between outstretched toes 2 4-4
One specimen. Fort Tejon, Cal. J. Xantus.
The only genus omitted from my examination of the families of Uro-
dela* is Aneides Baird. An examination of the skeleton shows that genua
enters the Plethodontida; and is nearest Plethodon, but differs from it in having
the mandibular teeth confined to the distal half, and exceedingly long and
compressed, thus differing from all known Urodela.
* Journ. A. N. S. 180G.
1867.]
