-12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
FASTI ORNITHOLOGIJE.
BY JOHN CASSIN.
Vain is it that your science sweeps th<> skies,
Each, after all, learns only what in- can!
Faust, Brooks' translation.
No. 3.
Encyclopedia Londinensis, or Universal Dictionary, &c, &c.
Compiled, digested and arranged by John Wilkes, of Mid/and House, in the
County of Sussex, Esquire; assisted hy eminent scholars of the English, Scotch
and Irish Universities. London, 1795 to 1829. 24 vols, quarto, many plo
of Natural History.
The Natural History contained in this Encyclopaedia is the basis of a work
published separately, and apparently nearly simultaneously, much enlarged
and popularized, and forming fourteen volumes octavo, with the following
title :
" A genuine and universal System of Natural History, comprising the three
Kingdoms of Animals, Vegetables and Minerals, arranged under their respect-
ive Classes, Orders, Genera and Species, by the late Sir Charles Linnaeus,
Professor of Physic and Botany in the University of Upsal, and President of
the Royal Academy of Stockholm ; improved, corrected and enlarged by J.
Frid. Gmelin, M. D., Professor of Natural History in the Royal Society of
Gottingen ;
" Faithfully translated, and rendered more complete by the addition of
Vaillant's beautiful Birds of Africa ; the superb Fish of Mark Eleazer Bloch ;
the Amphibious Animals, Reptiles, Insects, &c, in the costly works of Al-
bertus t?eba, Merian, Fabricius, Knorr, &c. ; the elegant improvements of the
Comte de Butfon, and the more modern discoveries of the British Navigators
in the South Pacific Ocean, New Holland, &c, &c.
" Methodically incorporated and arranged by the Editors of the Encyclo-
paedia Londinensis." London, 14 vols, octavo, dated only on the plates. In
these fourteen volumes there are 415 plates, colored, 162 of which represent
birds. The greater part are in octavo form, and evidently engraved express ly
for this work ; the remainder are from the Encyclopaedia, mainly (in birds)
representing Le Vaillant's species, and are qinrto, folded.
The Lncyelopsedia Londinensis contains nearly or quite the whole of Gmel-
in's edition of the Systema Natune, but perhaps rather more completely the
zoological portion thereof, and in some genera of birds rather strictly accord-
ing to the version of Turton. There are additions by the editor or editors,
the most important of which, in ornithology, are the species given in the vari-
ous works of Le Vaillant, a large number of which are named for the first
time by any English naturalist or writer, and in some instances having the
precedence over all others quite entirely. Daudiu, Vieillot, Shaw and Latham
are the principal competitors, and successfully so, in the large majority of
species, but by very small figures; and with Vieillot there is a tie of d
occasionally, as, for example, in the genera Muscicapa and Motacilla. The
dates of publication (iu the Eneyclopa-dia) are easily determined, being en-
graved on every plate.
The names and the descriptions of birds in this Encyclopaedia I have never
seen quoted nor otherwise alluded to, by any author ; an omissiou or over-
sight, as it seems to me, without sufficient reason, granting the doubtful pre-
sumption (though odd accident in this wide-awake age) that any writing
naturalist or amateur ever saw them (except myself). There is no reason, I
think, why the Encyclopedia Londinensis should not be regarded as quite
1 1 1 .- 1 1 in authority to the Nouveau Diotionnaire or the Encyclopedic Metho-
diqne, nor any possible impeachment of its respectability and grade of im-
portance as a scientific work.
[Dec.
