8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
leafstalks, tendrils and vine itself; these latter some authors are inclined to
refer to a distinct species, but as they are associated with those on the leaf, and as
there is no observable anatomical difference between the egg, larva and female
of these and those on the leaf (as I have shown elsewhere), it is quite incon-
sistent to believe that there is a specific difference. The young larva leaves
the gall, usually, soon after being hatched and resorts to the tender leaf as it
is expanding from the bud, fixes its location, where it feeds by puncturing the
leaf and sucking the juices; this irritation causes an abnormal development of
the leaf and thus produces a cup or bottle-like excrescence or gall in which
the insect now developes to a mother and where she resides, laying eggs, during
the remainder of her life ; from 50 up to even 5000 eggs may be found with her
at once, and one female may be the progenitor of many millions in one season,
even 10,000,000,000,000,000, as I have shown in the Practical Entomologist, vol.
2, page 17. Sometimes a few of the female larvae, from some cause, appear to
remain in the gall until maturity ;* at other times the galls are so closely located
that two or three are blended into one irregular gall, with as many primary pa-
rents. This disposition to, in a measure, form colonies, while the coccus spirit
of emigration also prevails, is another evidence that this insect forms the con-
necting link between the Aphidx and Coccidte. Much might be said regarding
these galls, their enemies, &c, but they have been in a measure recorded in
various publications.
HOW TO CONDUCT EXAMINATIONS.
The antennae of these insects can easily be examined with a common botan-
ical microscope, as I have often done ; for this purpose the young larva is as
good or perhaps better than au old female, but it travels so rapidly that it is
impossible to keep it long enough in the field of a good microscope to make a
satisfactory examination of the feet the all-important organs in family classi-
fication here ; and if on the back the incessant motion of the legs, sweeping
through the field of vision so rapidly, gives a very poor and unsatisfactory
view. But for a thorough examination I must insist on putting the living
insect under a good microscope, and although the pregnant female is a clumsy,
globular looking mass, with the legs apparently so close on the body as to be
nearly out of view, yet I find it the best state for examination, and it will lie
on its belly, side or back, as we may place it, long enough to examine it care-
fully, especially when pretty cool ; if we place it on the side or back we can
get a very good view of the feet, and we can see to good advantage the digitnli,
curved from above downward, and also the movement control that the insect
has over them, diverging, approximating, elevating and depressing them ; under
a poor glass these will be mistaken for long slender claws, but the true claws
will be seen just beneath them, and when on the back or side with the leg pro-
jecting out Leisurely from the body or sweeping through the field of vision, I
have watched them for many hours without being able to solve the problem of
one or two claw-, BO close does the insect keep them when they are curved in
under the foot, as they always are when in these positions. But place it on its
belly on the smooth glass plate, and it vainly struggles without being able to
move from tin- Bpol ; it thrusts out its Legs, and. as might he Supposed, natur-
ally enough spreads every organ of the feet, over which it lias muscular
control, to aid Ion, noil ion ; looking from above downward we see the long
hair-like digitnli, with their globular ends, sweeping over the glass plate ; the
globe not Incoming distorted or brushed oft*, we are convinced that it is not a
* I would horo raise the inquiry, inasmuch swi','/"' males ire BO Tory rare, may Dot s^me of
Mi rap] i females be apterous males, eapeoiaD y In thoaa perfectly round pills, Apparently
made by one mother, wherein we often find several apterous female like Imago, usually some-
vbal smaller than ttasone original parent of thecoionyl Otherwise, how ean we account ft>r
the fertilisation of the eggs thai sre to pass the winter? Winged males certainly, <>n account of
their extreme rarity, !" > ol fertilise many; vet from sppearanoee, their nnmerons enemies, their
real liability to destruction from every cause, and with nil their great abundance, many cer-
tainly must become fertilised from some source. Thi- is a point yet opeD for investigation.
[Jan.
