222
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
On the habits of a TIPULIDEOUS LARVA.
BY EDW. D. COPE.
There has been known in Europe for many years a small white larva, which
is called the army worm, which gathers itself into large bodies forming streams
of several feet in length. These bodies move forward at a slow rate, and ap-
pear to be a. form of migration which the species adopts for some purpose un-
known. Their superficial resemblance to a sluggish serpent usually excites
repugnance in the minds of many observers. It has been found that these
larva? are those of different species of the flies of the genus Sciara, which
belongs to the Mycetophilida?, which was formerly regarded as a group of the
great family Tipulidae, or the crane flies.
Of this genus Osten Sacken* says : " All the larvse of the Mycetophilidse are
gregarious, and live among decaying vegetable matters. * * Sciara is
found among decaying leaves in vegetable mould, iu cow-dung, under
the bark of dead trees, etc. * * They may be distinguished from the larva?
of Mycetophila by their greater delicacy, and by the structure of the trophi ;
most of them seem to have no bristles or spines on the locomotive processes
on the under side of the body, whereas the majority of the Mycetophihe have
them. They are even more gregarious than the other larvae of this family,
and have the singular propensity of sticking together in dense patches,
in which situation they are frequently found, for instance, under the bark of
trees. It is probably to the same propensity that the phenomenon, known in.
Germany under the name of army worm (Heerwurm), is due. This is a pro-
cession of larva?, sometimes from twelve to fourteen feet long, and two or
three inches broad, consisting of numberless specimens, sticking closely to-
gether, and forming a layer of about half an inch thickness. Such processions
have been often observed in woods in Germany, Sweden and Russia, but never
sufficiently investigated to explain their object. That the larva? do not mi-
grate in search of food, we can infer from the fact that they appear to be full-
grown when they form these processions."
Prof. Berthold, of the University of Gottingen, gives a more detailed ac-
count of this larva, f as follows :
" Mr. Berthold imparted, on the 17th of December, 1853, to the Royal So-
ciety of Sciences, a zoological examination of the Heerwurm (army \inrm),
which in certain .years in the forests of Thuringia, Hanover, Sweden and Nor-
way moves like a snake several feet long, four to six inches broad, and
thumb thick, which consists of myriads of small dipterous larvae, four to
five lines long. Eight years ago (Reports from the G. A. University and the
Royal Society of Sciences at Goettingen, 1845, No. 5), he stated that the
Tipula which was observed by the forest keeper, Mr. Raude, at Birkenmoor,
v. as the Thomastrauer gnat (Sciara t h o m a? ), and was the means of solving a
problem, which has been for hundreds of years a returning stimulus of bigotry
and fear for the peasants, and for zoologists a point of earnest consideration.
But when he obtained last summer from the Eilenriede, near Hanover, more
new Heerwurm larva?, and Mr. L. Bechstein bred some flies out of the larva?
of a Heerwurm, it gave him occasion to institute further examinations.
"The desire for association and migration cannot be compared with the
migrations of all other insects and animals; fortius is not done to procure
nourishment, because the maggots are in such great quantity above each
other, that but few would have a chance to reach the food. Also, the
maggots do not show the desire for travelling immediately after leaving the
egg, like many other insects, but the movement commences when the worm
# Who has described the larvse,' and Riven the bibliography of the European species
Proc^Entom.Soc.Phila L854 163^-170 lam indebted to this excellent entomologist fo
[Dec.
Pi !. i .u. in. .'i .i iin,-i i.'it too iiu * Mm iiiiieiuiMi iii mi.- exceiiem entomologist Iit
the identification of larvse from Westtown, Bent him, and for reference to the above essay
t Nachrichten Univ. GBttingen, 1854, p. i.
