NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223
is grown, and not less than three lines long. From this it would appear to
have some connection with the entrance into the pupa state.
" Their metamorphosis is known ; it takes place in earth, in roots of plants,
under rotten logs, or in swamps. Such moist localities are selected by the
Heerwurm larvae after they have come to a certain age, and the time of pupa
change has arrived, which is known by the desire for association.
"The mucus which keeps the maggots together is a product of the salivary
gland in Sciara i n g e n u a, and almost all other Dipterous larvae which have a
head, and which make a fine cocoon. The formation of |>upae of the Heerwurm
takes place surrounded by this mucous saliva. The Heerwurm can be re-
garded as a collection of larvae, for the purpose of mutual transformation ;
that is, it is accomplished through mutual protection at a period favorable to
development. This connection is given up before the formation of nymphs
really arrives, the individuals separating, from time to time, in search of
food. When now the larvae of large divisions of Diptera, as the Pupipares,
Notacanthes, etc., have the peculiarity of changing their own skin into a
cover, which is the grave of the larva and the cradle for the pupa ; and the
larvae of another division of the Diptera, as the Tanystomes and the Nemo-
ceres, before changing, strip off their cover, and are transformed free or in a
cocoon, so the Sciara thouia presents a process intermediate betweeu these,
as the construction of the cocoon is not performed within the skin of the larva
itself, but in a cavity which is made of the skins of numbers of other larvae."
There appears, however, to have been no record of the observation of this
peculiar habit of larvae in North America, up to within a short time. The genus
is known to exist here, and Osten Sacken (1. c.) describes a species which he
calls Sciara toxoneura. Hence the following account, which I have re-
ceived from my friend William Kite, teacher at Westtown School, in Chester
county, Pa., is of considerable interest. The statements are those of a careful
naturalist, well acquainted with the field and field study. Before quoting it,
it must be noted that another account of the same phenomenon was published
in The Friend journal (Philada., 1864), by Charles Potts, another teacher in
the same excellent institution. Some statements of this writer need correc-
tion, as further observation convinced him: e. g., that they could climb.
The following are observations of Wm. Kite :
"On the morning of Ninth month 1 1th, IS 66, a company of worms was ob-
served crossing the brick walk, or passage, east of Westtown School; the mass
presented much the appearance of a thin grey snake. This is the third year
that these worms have been seen about our grounds.
"This company extended over a length of about twenty-two inches, with a
breadth of from three-quarters of an inch in the thickest part, to about one-
eighth of an inch at the head, and one-tenth at the tail; five or six worms
deep in thicker parts. The mode of progression of these singular creatures
was by the contraction of an annulus at a time. They had distinct heads, and
the motion of each was like that observed in caterpillars rather than that seen
in earth-worms. The contraction commenced posteriorly, and was passed for-
ward to the head in the successive rings.
" They advanced at the rate of four inches in five minutes, the hinder ones
working their way over the top of the rest. Those who reached the ground
or bricks by thus traversing their comrades' backs seemed unable to proceed,
so that their progression naturally assumed the singular shape that drew our
attention to them. Occasionally a few would diverge from the mass, near the
front, forming another head, as it were ; but they would soon return to the
general company by crawling back over each other."
[This observation was also made on the procession which appeared in 1864 ;
;'. e., that the hinder ones progressed over the bodies of those that preceded,
the whole mass thus taking up in the rear and laying down in front. This is
a much more rational explanation of their progress than has been offered ; we
1867.]
