-24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
having been left to suppose that the lower stratum of larva; carry the general
mass. E. D. C]
"To arrive at an idea of their numbers, about half au inch of them were
lifted out of their ranks on the point of a knife ; of these 95 adhered to it,
giving say 200 to the inch, or, by rough estimation, 2400 in the party.
" They were about half an inch long, semi-transparent, with black heads ;
their alimentary canals were clearly distinguishable by the unaided eye ; the
color of their contents would lead to the supposition that their food resembled
that of the earth-worm. They crossed the brick path, conforming to one
general direction, but varying to suit the inequalities of the walk. On reach-
ing the grass they immediately buried themselves in the ground. This was
observed to happen with a company which was seen here a year or two ago."
" S'V/nth mo. 1. 1867.
" A large company of the ' snake worms ' attempted to cross a gravel walk
in the yard this morning, but became entangled in the sand, which adhered to
their bodies and seemed to bewilder them. School duties interfered with
watching them, but I anticipated their perishing in the sand. They had
managed to keep together when I saw them, after having crawled through
three or four feet of sandy gravel, and may have eventually escaped.
*' The most notirable fact in regard to them was the presence among them,
travelling with and over them, of a full-grown maggot of a fly! It was very
lively, diving into the mass and emerging again, as though quite at home.
How did it get there? and why did it associate with them? Was it hatche 1
among them ?
''Their course was about N. W."
" Seventh mo. 5, 1867.
"A small company of tho<e worms agaiu on the gravel walk, within a few
feet of the same place as on the 1st inst. As they were going in an opposite
direction from those on the 1st, they may be the same company. There were
several many-footed worms, about an inch long, accompanying them ; these
were engaged in pulling worms out of the procession and devouring them.
On both occasions the companies were noticed early in the morning, as though
they commenced moving in the night.
" Their course was about S."
*' Seventh mo. 8, 1867.
" A much larger company of these worms were on the brick walk. They
had nearly crossed the walk before 7 A. M., showing they commenced movim:
early in the morning, They appeared unusually lively. Upon careful ex-
amination, we found the train extending back into the grass eighteen inched
to a cluster of them which appeared to be issuing out of the ground. They
moved on the surface of the ground, winding among the grass to avoid the
stems. This disproves our former supposition that they emerged to avoid
some obstruction. We were necessarily called off, and on our return the
traces of them were lost. Some ants and one small worm seemed engaged in
eating them ; the worms apparently appreciated their danger, shrinking from
the touch of these animals. This procession measured six feet six inches.
Occasionally one would be left on the ground after the train had passed, but
luost of them kept with the general mass.
" Their course was about N. W."
''Seventh mo. 9, 1867.
"Two more small companies of these worms appeared, apparently the re-
mains of the large party of yesterday. Each company was short of a foot in
length, and were accompanied by quite a number of the worms noticed be-
fore with them. I caught and preserved a number of these ; they resemble
the worms found in cured meat, or similar ones found in many garden vegeta-
bles. Their connection with the emigrant parties seems to be that of enemies,
preying on them.
'" Course N. W."
[Dec.
