NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225
"Seventh wo. 15, 1867.
" 7 o'clock. A cool morning. Found a small company of these worms on
the brick walk near the office. Some passer had trod on them, and they
were thrown into confusion; added to this, a colony of ants had intercepted
their course, and carried them off in numbers. They were massed inacrowd,
and their efforts to move on were defeated by the ants seizing their leaders at
each attempt to move.
" 8.30. The perseverance of the ants in carrying away the worms seems to
demoralize them entirely, and finally two bricks being placed to protect them
from passers' feet, the greater portion of them crept under one of them and
huddled together in a confused mass, where they became an easy prey to
their indefatigable little enemies, who were to be seen through the morning
marching off with their captives, though much larger than themselves.
" 10 o'clock. All gone.
" Course, so far as they were permitted to go, N. W. "
The "many-footed worms" which devoured the Sciara larvse were larvae
of some species of the Coleopterous family Staphylinidae. Several specimens
were sent with the Sciara?.
I am also informed that a procession of this species has been seen on Quaker
Hill, in the borough of West Chester. Dr. Benj. H. Coates informs me that
he has seen their trains in Hunterdon county, N. J., and T. A. Conrad saw
them some years ago in his garden in Burlington, in the same State.
On inquiry of my friend Jacob Stauffer, of Lancaster, whose MS. notes on
the species of insects of his region, and their habits, are numerous, I received
the following additions to our stock of knowledge of the habits of the larva of
the Sciara :
"On the 10th of August, 1865, Mr. Rathvon and myself were informed by
Dr. Geo. McCalla that we would be interested by examining an army of
small shining worms on the march in the yard of Col. D. Patterson, in W.
King street, Lancaster.
"On our arrival we found the order of march thrown into great confusion
by boiling water, which the women had poured along the line. I collected
quite a number of stragglers from the main army thus routed, as did also
friend Rathvon. These I subjected to a close examination under a strong
magnifying power. My notes read thus : ' A portion, about two feet in length,
looked like a shining cord, not uniform in outline, yet compact. These larvse
were about half an inch long mostly, perhaps three-eighths of an inch, and
seven-sixteenths and one-thirty-second parts of an inch in diameter. Their
heads of a glossy jet-black color, as also the anterior edge of the first joint of
segment ; rest of the first, and the second and third joints of a translucent
milky-white, dorsally watery, with an interior wavy, brownish, intestinal
canal, visible through the transparent skin ; there is also a lateral tinge or
brouze-yellow ; otherwise of a shining, water-and-milk-like color. 1 could
observe no pectoral or anal legs ; they moved by contracting and extending
the segments of their body (twelve in number) alternately, like that of a dip-
terous larva of Tipulidse. In motion the convolutions of the intestinal canal
were very apparent. They seemed to interlace with each other, but, having
been disturbed, I cannot venture to say whether after any precise order, or
by simple conglomeration as chance may demand. When first seen they
were moving in a broad columnar mass, rope-like, seeming like a shining
guard chain cord, of considerable thickness and quite ornamental, like jet
beads mixed in with pearly- white beads in motion.'
"The following is a copy from a letter by Prof. W. S. Roedel, Wytheville,
Virginia, Aug. 4. 1865, in his own words :
" ' On Saturday, July 15, 1865, at North Lebanon, Pa., I observed in a path
at the foot of a lull, what I at first glance supposed to be the cast-off skin of a
serpent, which the object resembled in color and general appearance, but what,
1867.] 15
