226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
upon close inspection, I found to be a multitude of caterpillars, a half-inch in
length and oue-thirty-second part of an inch in diameter ; head of a dull red
or brownish color, bodies smooth and somewhat glistening.
" These worms moved upon one another, piled upon and irregularly inter-
woven among each other like a flattened rope. The head of the column was
much broader than the rest, being two inches wide, from which dimension the
column gradually tapered (to a point, I suppose, for I did not see the end of
it). The length of the column was four feet to a fence, beyond which I did
not examine it.
" ' A portion of the column lay in the grass, through which it moved with-
out interruption, as if it had been a solid mass. The rate of motion was ex-
tremely slow, not exceeding one-eighth of an inch in a minute. The color of
the mass was as much like a rope of tow which has been exposed to the
weather as anything I can think of; it might be called a rusty gray. The
column was not cylindrical, that is, a cross section would be elliptical.'
"The Springfield (Mass.) Republican of August, 1865, gives au account of
a ' reptile ' found at Lee. It was nearly four feet in length, about the size of
a man's finger, and shaped like a whip-lash ; and on close examination the
whole body was found to be composed of small worms about half an inch in
length, with large black heads, and semi-transparent body. On separating
them into fragments, they would immediately re-form into a snake shape, and
crawl slowly off. One or two similar snakes have recently been seen in that
vicinity.' This was copied into the Lancaster Evening Express of Saturday,
Aug. 12, 1865."
The Mechanical Theory of SOLAR HEAT.
BY JACOB ENNIS.
During the last quarter of a century scientific men have endeavored hy new
methods to account for the heat of the sun, and they now generally believe,
or incline to believe, in its mechanical origin. Some adopt the meteoric the-
ory. They suppose that meteorites are falling with great velocity in the sun,
and that these stones strike the enormous solar fire by their fall. Others
adopt the nebular theory. They suppose that the sun and all his attending
planets and satellites have condensed from a very rare nebulous condition,
and that the mere condensation, or falling together of their materials by the
force of gravity, has produced all the solar heat. Others again combine both
these theories. They believe that originally the sun and the earth were
heated to a fused condition by mere condensation, and that since then the
meteorites have continued the heat of the sun. The only source of heat by
all these theories is gravity, because gravity causes the fall of matter, whether
in a nebulous or a meteoric condition, and this falling, this mechanical force,
is converted into heat. My object in this paper is to show that none of these
views can stand the test of numbers and of well established facts. The high
place which the mechanical theory of solar heat now holds in the scientific
world, is my apology for this appearance.
Some of the important statements of the highly distinguished gentlemen
who have formed the mechanical theory are these :
I. Dr. Julius Robert Mayer, of Heilbronn, says that a mass of burning coal
equal to that of the sun would supply his present emission of heat only 4600
years ; and that a meteorite falling into the sun would supply at least 4600
times more heat than the same weight of burning coal. Hence a mass of
meteorites equal to the sun would supply his heat 4600 X 4600 = 21,160,000
years. This would be the least amount of heat when, as is most natural, that
mass of meteorites should approach the sun spirally. If they should fall in
a direct line, as would be most unlikely, the heat would be double this
amount. This greatest possible amount of heat, being out of probability, is
[Dec.
