NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ll
find on the wild Vitis cordifolia and on the tame Clinton grape-vine, or the
gall carysevense of Fitch, which I find exclusively on the leaves of the Shellbark
Hickory (Can/a alba), and the third an undescribed gall, the size of a cabbage
seed, on the leaves of the Pig-nut Hickory (Garya glabra) may easily satisfy
himself that the mother-louse inhabiting them does not belong to the Aphis
but to the Coccus Family," &c, &c, without telling us how to become satisfied that
a plainly Tsvo-clawed tarsus belongs to the Coccus family, is quite incomprehensi-
ble, and certainly utterly at variance with their true anatomical characters. My
paper discusses two of these supposed bark-lice, and I believe that the third is of
the same character. Dr. Fitch's "rashness" is here fairly paralleled by tin;
accuser himself, in the same paper, by "fixing the family to which a particular
larva belongs," as I have abundantly demonstrated. H. S.
Feb. 5th.
Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty seven members present.
Feb. 12th.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty members present.
The death of 11. Kenuicott, member, was announced.
Feb. 19th.
The President, Dr. Hays ; in the Chair.
Forty-four members present.
The following papers were presented for publication :
" A list of introduced plants, growing in waste giound below the
Philadelphia Navy Yard, &c." By Aubrey H. Smith.
" On the Habits of the Cutting Ant of Texas." By G. Lincecum.
The following deaths were announced :
William Norris, a member, on the 5th of January ; Brackenridge
Clemens, M. D., of Easton, Pa., a correspondent ; Prof. Alexander
Dallas Bache, a member, at Newport, R. l. ; on the 17th inst.
Dr. H.Allen directed the attention of the members to some features of interest
in the conformation of the mammalian skull, based upon examinations of
specimens in the Academy's collection.
Having noticed in the skull of a Kronian negro, in the Wistar and Hor-
ner Museum of the University of Pennsylvania, the absence of union between
the greater wing of the sphenoid bone (alisphenoid) and anterior inferior
angle of the parietal bone, and in its stead a union at that point between the
temporal and frontal bones, he was desirous of ascertaining to what extent
the variation would be found present in a series of crania. With this object
examinations of the human skulls, eleven hundred in number, were made,
when the variety was found present in twenty three. With these it was
thought to be the result of deficient developement of the great wing of the
sphenoid bone, an interspace being left which was occupied by a process of
the temporal sent forwards and upwards to articulate with the frontal bone.
1867.]
