NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229
to me in very strange contrast with all the others we have just reviewed. It
amounts to nearly this : If the sun should contract in volume from what it
now is to half its present diameter, this falling of its surface less than a
quarter of a million of miles would afford solar heat for ten millions of years.
Whereas the falling of its surface, by contraction, through many thousand
millions of miles, has produced heat enough for only double that period, ac-
cording to Helmholtz, and for only 3,000,000 years, according to my calcula-
tion already made in this paper. To me this statement about a supply of heat
for 10,000,000 years to come seems more erroneous by far than the one about
heat for 20,000,000 years of the past by mere falling force. His | rocesses for
arriving at these conclusions are not given ; until they are given, the mere
assertions seem plainly contradicted by reliable data already reviewed.
After these statements of the mechanical theory of solar heat, we will now
examine the objections to its various phases.
V. That phase of the mechanical theory which assumes that the heat of the
sun proceeds from his own condensation by the force of gravity, is objection-
able on account of the short supply of heat. It would be only twenty millions
of years, according to the longest statement, which I think 1 have shown to
be erroneous. That twenty millions' of years are plainly due to the falling
together of two masses, both equal to our sun. Three millions are nearer the
truth, which is obtained by the rate of growth in the sun, according to the
meteoric theory. But even tweuty millions of years are nothing when com-
pared with the vast lapse of time, or rather of eternity, that is past. The ex-
periments of Bischof on basalt show that for our globe to cool down from
2000 degree* to 2>0 degrees centigrade, would require 350,000,000 years This
result has been quoted and approved extensively by the highest authorities,
among others by Helmholtz, and by Tyndall in his work on heat. Undoubt-
edly our globe was heated to a point as high as 2000 C. In " The Origin of
the Stars" I have shown that the simple chemical elements composing our
globe were created separately and uncombined, that they could not have com-
bined slowly, but that they must have combined freely and rapidly, and in so
doing our globe must have been all aflame, like the sun. Then for our earth
to cool from 300 C. down so far as to be habitable for plants and animals,
would require one hundred or two hundred millions of years more. Then
come the long periods for the deposition of the fossilifcrous strata ; and these,
the longer they are studied, seem to require longer and longer periods of
time. This is my experience, after studying them forty years. Darwin com-
putes, from data which seem sound, that 300,000,000 years have elapsed since
the period of the weald, the latter part of the secondary. This latter part of
the secondary, along with the tertiary, forms but a very small part of the
stratified rocks. But we have been speaking only of the solid and the fused
conditions of our planet. My many years of study on the nebulous condition
of the great globes of space, impress me with nebulous periods equally as long
and as incomprehensible as the fused and the solidified periods. In this way.
while studying the monuments of the past set up by the Creator of the Uni-
verse for our guidance, our reason carries us back not only hundreds of
millions, but thousands of millions of years, and, in endeavoring to conceive
of these long periods, the miad is just as completely overburdened and be-
wildered as when we try to conceive of the immensity of space revealed by
astronomy. By the side of all this how insignificant appears the three mil-
lions of years taken by the sun to give out his light by the mere falling force
of his own materials. Even the twenty millions of years advocated by some
appears no better. Therefore this phase of the mechanical theory of solar
heat is untenable. Neither can it account for the former igneous fluidity of
our globe. During the slow nebulous condensation the heat from that source
must have slowly radiated away, and we must look to the chemical combi-
nation of its elements for its former fused condition.
VI. Mayer, the first originator of the meteoric theory of solar heat, calcu-
1867.]
