230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
lated that the yearly accumulation of meteoric matter on the sun would so
greatly increase the centripetal force of the solar system as to shorten our
years from jf to f of a second. This shortening of our years does not agree
with our present astronomical observations. Moreover Laplace proved, from
the observations of Hipparchus, that during the last 20 centuries our days
have not been shortened by th? one-three-hundredth part of a second. To
escape this difficulty Mayer proposed the extraordinary idea that, by the un-
dulatory theory, as well as by the old corpuscular theory of Newton, " the sun,
like the ocean, is all the while receiving and losing equal quantities of matter.''
All the matter of the meteorites must be repelled back into space just as fast
as they fall. But this is in direct contradiction to the theory of the conserva-
tion of force. The force imparted to the sun by the fall of meteorites might
indeed repel them all back again precisely where they came from, providing
there existed a condition of perfect elasticity. But this elastic rebound would
completely exhaust all the force received by the fall, and no force could be
left to be converted into light and heat. To make the sun give out light and
heat with a force equivalent to the fall, and also to send back the meteors
with a force equivalent to the fall, would be making the sun perform exactly
double duty. Still another objection arises, equally as strong : It would be
like saying that when a body burns, the products of combustion are radiated
away in the forms of light and heat. But experiments in abundance have
proved that chemical combinations lose none of their materials by light and
heat. It would be hard to find a more clear or a more acute mind than that
of Mayer, and yet, to save his grand and magnificent meteoric theory, he was
led, no doubt reluctantly, to this idea of immense quantities of matter radi-
ated away by the undulatory theory. We may say immense quanti-
ties, because the radiation of the suu would amount to his entire mass in
3,000,uuU years ; and a mass equal to the great globe on which we dwell in
the lifetime of an aged man.
VII. Professor Wm. Thomson, of Edinburgh, endeavored to save the mete-
oric theory by a very different method. He supposed that mettorites are
revolviug around the sun within the ear h's orbit, and that they appear to
our vision in the zodiacal light. Being resisted by the solar atmosphi re. they
fall in the sun, and being already within our orbit their fall does not shorten
our year. There are two objections to this phase of the meteoric theory. The
first is that it does uot allow time enough for geological facts. For the sta-
bility of the solar system, the meteorites must revolve around the sun in the
same direction as the plauets. They must come down spirally and hasten
the rotation of the sun. Assuming that before their fall the sun did not ro-
tate on its axis, then, to keep up the present emission of heat, ihe meteorites,
according to Thomson, would give the present velocity to the sun in 32,000
years. Therefore sunlight has existed only during the past 32,000 years.
Therefore the fossil plants away down iu the lowest strata of our earth lived
and flourished and were nourished by the light of the sun only 32,000 years
ago! Sir Charles L) ell, in his Antiquity of Man. calculated that the bones
and implements of men, found iu what may truly be called superficial strata,
are at least 100,000 years old, and in this I believe he is now supported by
the assent of all geologists.
Thr second objection to Prof. Thomson's phase of the meteoric theory, is
that it opposes not only the geological, but also the nebular theory. The
nebular theory must no longer be regarded as a vague hypothesis, but as a
scientific verily. In The Origin of the Stars, and in a paper in this volume
of these Proceedings, I have proved mathematically that the velocities of all
the members of the solar system, more than a hundred in all, are just such as
they must have by the force of gravity acting according to the nebular the-
ory ; and that not only their various velocities, but the directions of their
complicated motions, and the positions of their orbits, are jast what the force
of gravity would necessarily produce. I have given evidences equally as
[Dec.
