NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231
strong that gravity imparted all their motions to all the stars in their orbits,
as we have ever had that gravity now holds them in those very orbits. For
these and many other reasons the nebular theory must be regarded as estab-
lished. The supposition that the rotation of the sun has been caused by me-
teorites is directly opposed to the very foundation of the nebular theory,
which teaches that the original rapid rotation of the sun by centrifugal force
produced all the planets, planetoids, and also these very meteorites of the zo-
diacal light, if such there be. These meteorites must have had the same origin
as the other members of the solar system, because they move in the same plane
and in the same direction. Therefore these meteorites, if such there be, have
derived their velocities from the sun, and not the sun from the meteorites.
The wonder is, not that the sun now rotates so rapidly, but so slowly. When
his surface extended to the orbit of Mercury his velocity of rotation was
110,000 miles per hour. Now it is only 4560 miles per hour. How has it
been retarded? I have shown that in many, probably in most, cases the ro-
tation of a nebula can be only on the surface, and that ultimately it must be
retarded by friction on the unrotating interior. Between the orbit of Mercury
and the present surface of the sun, the velocity of rotation tnust have been
vastly increased in order to abandon any planetary or meteoric matter. But
in reality the velocity was decreased, and therefore none could have been
abandoned. Even before the abandonment of Mercury, there was a slacken-
ing of the rate of increase in solar rotation. It is on this account that the
interplanetary space between Venus and Mercury is greater than that between
the Earth and Venus, contrary to the law of all the other planets. For all the
interplanetary spaces become less and less in approaching toward the sun, in
consequence of the greater rate of nebular rotation. Therefore, in conse-
quence of the slackened rate of rotation, we could look, according to the
nebular theory, for no large mass of meteoric matter abandoned by the sun
inside the orbit of the earth. But, for argument sake, let us suppose that a
large amount of meteoric matter was thus abandoned, and let it be equal to
the mass of Venus. This truly is a very liberal allowance. Then how long
would its fall in the sun keep alive his present rate of heat? According to
Thomson, the fall of Venus in the sun would prolong his heat just 83 years
and 227 days. This is a wonderful contrast with the inconceivable millions
of years demanded by the other facts of science
Mayer's phase of the meteoric theory is also opposed to the nebular theory.
I suppose he must have seen that the present interior heat of the earth and
its former entire igneous fusion could not be accounted for by the fall of me-
teorites, because they must have ceased gradually, and we would now find a
thick crust of meteoric matter on the surface of our planet. He therefore
supposes that the heat was caused by a collision with another large body.
This collision must have produced not only the heat but also the rotation of
the earth. The same must have occurred with the moon, because the lunar
mountains and volcanoes exhibit unmistakeable evidences of former fusion
and interior heat. The same also must have happened to the other planets
and satellites, for they all rotate. Therefore, according to this view, each of
the planets and satellites must have found a fellow to strike them, most won-
derful to tell, precisely in the same way, and impart to them all their rota-
tions in the same direction ! But the solar system is constructed on different
principles. There can be no collision of large planetary bodies ; much less
a very peculiar system of collisions to make them all rotate and move in their
orhits exactly in the same way 1
Thus we see insurmountable objections against all the three phases of the
mechanical theory of solar heat. The old theory of luminous, calorific,
cloud-like envelopes floating in the atmosphere of the sun, is very generally
given up ; but even this docs not attempt to point out the cause of the heat in
the supposed envelopes. There remains only the chemical theory, which ha*
but the one objection, that there is not a sufficient amount of fuel in the sun.
1807.]
