232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
This objection I have shown, in The Origin of the Stars, to be founded on at
least three groundless assumptions ; founded, in fact, on our ignorance. It
pretends to say that the materials of the sun, pound for pound, can give out
no more heat than the materials of the earth. It pretends to say that the phy-
sical forces, all alive in the sun, can produce no more heat in connection with
chemical combination than in our laboratories. It pretends to say that in
the condensation of the sun no new chemical elements can be produced to
serve as new fuel. It pretends all this in profound ignorance of what it
ought to know for such assertions. On the contrary, I have shown various
probabilities that the vastly different materials of the sun give out unspeak-
ably more heat. I have shown various probabilities that all the physical
forces alive together in the sun can produce more heat in connection with
chemical combination ihan in our little laboratories. I have shown, what
seems to me conclusive proofs, that new chemical elements are now forming in
the sun to serve as new fuel. These probabilities I do not call my demon-
stration. But beyond all this I have given, as my special demonstration, large
numbers of facts and arguments, derived from the earth, the sun and the fixed
stars, to prove that solar heat springs from chemical action. Until some one
in the scientific world attempts to answer my facts and arguments, I need
say nothing further.
There are many other objections to the mechanical theory, but I think
quite enough have here been given to put the discussion at rest forever.
Descriptions of Five New Species of Central American BIRDS.
BY GEO. N. LAWRENCE.
1. GLACCIS iENEUS.
Front and top of the head dull brown, upper plumage besides of a shining
coppery bronze, the upper tail coverts are rather more bronzy, with dull
grayish margins ; the two central tail feathers are of a dull pale bronzy given,
the other tail feathers are chestnut at base, with a broad subterminal band
of black, all of them end in white ; ear coverts black; a pale rufous stripe
runs from the bill under the eye, and there is a postocular mark or streak of
the same color ; a dusky line extends from the under mandible down each
side of the neck; the entire under plumage and under tail coverts are of a
clear rufous ; upper mandible black, the under is dull yellow for two-thirds
its length, with the end black ; feet pale yellow.
Length (skin) 4^ in. ; wing 2 1-1 6th ; tail lj ; bill 1|.
Habitat. Costa Rica. Collected by A. R. hhidres. Type in Museum of
Smithsonian Institution.
Remarks. This species differs from G. hirsuta and its allies in the bronzy
coloring of its tipper plumage, and also in being smaller ; in the well marked
band on the tail feathers it is much like G. ajffinis, but the color of the band
is of a deeper black, not bluish black ; the tail feathers are narrower than in
affinis, and the under tail coverts more rufous.
;-everal specimens examined vary only in some having their Tipper plum-
age more of a golden bronze, others being more coppery ; none have the
uuder mandible of a clear yellow, some scarcely showing that color, the bill
appearing to be entirely black.
2. EuPHEBUSA NIGBIVENTEIS.
Pore part of the be id as fir as upon a line with the back part of the eyes,
and the entire under surface deep velvety black; occiput dull ashy brown,
upper plumage grass green tinged with golden ; upper tail coverts of a dull
coppery bronze ; the four central tail feathers blackish purple, the three
lateral on each side pure white; primaries brownish purple : the wing coverts
green like the back ; the secondaries are chestnut at the base with their ends
[Dec
