NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233
purple ; sides under the wings dull green ; the vent and under tail coverts
white ; hill black ; feet yellowish.
Length (skin) IS;, 1 in. ; wing 2 ; tail 1| ; hill f.
Habitat. Costa Rica. Collected by A. R. Eudrcs.
Type in Museum of Smithsonian Institution.
R< marks. The combination of colors in this bird is of an unusual charac-
ter, and I know of none which it at all resembles. I consider it strictly con-
generic with the species heretofore placed by me in Eupherusa, viz., my E.
eupreiceps and Thaumatias chionurus of Mr. Gould. In the present species
the character of the secondaries being chestnut, I think strengthen its claims
to an alliance with E. eximia.
3. Thaumatias Luci.*:.
Upper plumage of a dull bronzy dark green, the crown duller ; the upper
tail coverts of a lighter bronzy green, somewhat golden ; the tail feathers are
dull bronzy green, all except the two central ones are broadly marked near
their ends with dark purplish bronze, the tips being ashy gray ; the throat and
breast are glittering bluish green, middle of the abdomen white ; the under
tail coverts are light olive margined with white ; wings brownish purple ;
upper mandible black, the under yellow with the end blackish ; feet black.
Length (skin) 3| in. ; wing 2} ; tail If ; bill 13 ltiths.
Habitat. Honduras.
Remarks. In size and colors of the body this species is much like T. Lin-
ncei, but the tail is quite different, and closely resembles, in the coloring of its
under surface, that of T. chionopectus.
This was the only specimen in the collection from which I obtained it, but
there were many specimens of T. cqndidus.
This species is dedicated to Miss Lucy Brewer, daughter of my friend Dr.
Thomas M. Brewer, of Boston.
4. DroJIOCOCCYX RUFIGULARIS.
Head above and entire upper plumage rich dark brown of a purplish lustre ;
the tips of the feathers on the head, back and wing covertfc, are sparingly
marked with minute spots of pale rufous, some of the larger coverts are more
rufous at their ends, the color extending for some distance along the shafts :
the upper tail coverts, which are much lengthened, are of a duller brown than
the back, they have a greenish gloss, and are margined with dull gray ; the
tail feathers are much the same in color as the back, and are narrowly edged
on both webs with very pale rufous ; the tail underneath is of a clear grayish
ash, with the shafts of the feathers white, and the edges of the feathers
narrowly marked with whitish ; quill feathers brown, with their shafts white
underneath, and the inner webs marked witli white at the base; a postocu-
lar stripe of light rufous extends to the hind neck ; ear coverts dark brown ;
sides of the neck, throat and upper part of the breast rufous, paler on the
throat and deeper in color on the breast, on the latter some of the feathers
have their edges narrowly marked with black ; the color of the breast con-
nects with the rufous stripe running back from the eye ; the remaining uuder
parts with the under tail coverts, white ; the greater part of the upper man-
dible is black, the edges together with the iinder mandible being yellow ;
tarsi and toes brown, soles of the feet yellow.
Length (skin) 10$ in. ; wing 6; tail b^ ; tarsi 1 ; bill f.
Habitat. Guatemala. Obtained from Dr. C. H. Van Patten, who had no
knowledge concerning it, except that it came from a high mountain region.
Remarks. This species is much smaller and of a more delicate form than
D. phasianellus, Max. (>. mexicanus, Bp.), and is quite different in coloration,
that having the crown and crest dark cinnamon, the wing coverts conspicu-
ously edged with whitish, the postocular stripe nearly white and the throat
and upper breast spotted and streaked with black ; the feet in the new
species are much weaker.
1867.]
