234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
5. Abamides albivextris.
Occiput and part of hind neck brownish cinnamon ; chin and throat
whitish ; fore part of the head and crown, with the neck behind and in front
of a clear bluish gray ; back and wings greenish olive ; rump, tail, Hanks,
abdomen and under tail coverts black ; thighs smoky black ; quills bright
reddish cinnamon ; under wing coverts dull pale cinnamon, with blackish
bars ; breast pale cinnamon, this color extending round partly on the back :
the elongated feathers of the breast, which extend down the sides of the
abdomen are white, and form a conspicuous broad mark in shape of the letter
U inverted, which contrasts strikingly with the reddish and black colors
above and below it ; the bill is orange as far as the nostrils and pale greenish
yellow at the end : the legs appear to have been light Vermillion.
Length about 21 in. ; wing 7 1 . ; tail 2^; bare part of tibia 1 ; tarsi 3 :
bill 2A.
Habitat. British Honduras.
Remarks. I have had the above described specimen for some time, an 1
considered it to be a new species, but delayed publishing it. I have recently
obtained another precisely like it, that came from Guatemala.
It differs from A. Cai/ennensis, Gin., in the breast being of a pale instead
of a deep cinnamon red, and in having the white mark on the abdomen.
Additional Note on the "CHINCH-BUG."
BY HENRY SHTMER, M. D.
The "Chinch-bug" has entirely disappeared from this region, so far as I
have been able to observe. I have made diligent search since spring, with
the object of obtaining a few living specimens, but up to this time have not
succeeded in finding a single specimen. I am convinced that the efficient
cause of their entire destruction exists in the continuation of the epidemic
among them. Their overthrow is a cause of great rejoicing among the farmers.
And once more, as of yore, they have realized a bountiful wheat harvest. I
have but one thing to regret in their annihilation : I neglected to obtain a
good supply of specimens, while they might have been secured by the wagon
load.
Ml. Carroll, III, Sept. 16, 1867.
Prof. Cope gave an account of the extinct reptiles which approached the
birds. He said that this approximation appeared to be at two points. The
first by the Pterosauria, to which the modified bird Archacoptervx presented
points of affinity. The second, and one not less stiiking. is by the Dinosauria
of the orders Goniopoda and Symphypoda. lie showed the essential differences
between the ordinary Dinosanria and the birds to consist in the distinct tarsal
I es iii two scries, the anteriorly directed pubes, and the presence of teeth.
of the first class. In the genus La' laps Cope, type of the Goniopoda. the prox-
imal series of tarsal bones was principally represented by one large astraga-
loid piece which had a very extensive motion on those of the second series.
This was immovably bound to. and embraced, the tibia, and was perhaps con-
tinuous with Lhe fibula, much resembling the structure of the foot of the chick
of tin- ninth day, as given by Gegenbaur. The zygomatic arch was of a very
light description. He was convinced that the most bird-like of the tracks of
the Connecticut sandstone were made by a nearly allied genus, the Bathyg-
nathua Leidy. These creatures, no doubt, assumed a more or less erect po-
sition, and the weight of tin- riscera, etc., was supported by the slender and
e pubic bones, which were to some extent analogous to the marsupial
hones of [mplacental Mammalia, though probably not homologous with them.
He -aid he was Satisfied that the SO-Called clavicles of IguanodOD and otl
Dinosauria were pubes, having a position similar to those of the Crocodilia.
[Dec.
