NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235
Also that a species of Laelaps had been observed in France, by Cuvier, which
was different from the L. aquilungui s, and which he proposed should be
called Laelaps g a 1 1 i c u s.
Oompsognathus Wagner, type of the Symphypoda, expressed the characters
of the latter in the entire union of the tibia and fibula with the first series of
tarsal bones, a feature formerly supposed to belong to the class Aves alone,
until pointed out by Gegenbaur. This genus also offered an approach to the
birds in the transverse direction of the pubes, (unless this be due to distortion
in the specimen figured by Wagner,) their position being intermediate between
the position iu most reptiles and in birds. Other bird-like features were the
great number and elongation of the vertebra? of the neck, and the very light
construction of the arches and other bones of the head.
He thought the penguin, with its separated metatarsals, formed an approach
on the side of the birds, but whether the closest approximation to the Sym-
phypoda should be looked for here or among the long-tailed Batitse (ostrich,
etc.,) he was unable to indicate.
The following reports of the Curators, Librarian and Recording Sec-
retary were read :
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators, in the presentation of their usual Annual Report, take pleas-
ure in announcing to the members of the Academy that its Museum is
throughout in a fair state of preservation, and during the last year has con-
tinued to increase, through the interest and liberality of the lovers of natural
history. Through the same qualities we have been provided with a large
amount of means, upwards of $100,000, towards the purchase of ground and
the erection of a more capacious building to accommodate the Museum.
However, even after sufficient means are procured for the completion of this
object, it is not enough for the interests of the Academy and Science that we
should stop here. The Museum has now acquired such giant proportions
that voluntary labor can no longer be depended upon for the arrangement of
the cabinet ; indeed, the Museum in its present unarranged and often confused
condition, loses the greater part of its value to students. The time has
arrived when it is highly important that means should be obtained to em-
ploy a Curator and competent assistants whose duty it shall be to classify,
arrange, and label the collection and maintain it in perfect order.
The Museum of the Academy has become one of the most attractive places
of visit in our city, and with its collections properly arranged and labelled
will become a great school of popular instruction. During the past year,
though open only, as usual, two half days weekly, it was visited by 51,520
persons.
If our city government appreciated the importance of the Academy as a
school of instruction to the people, it could not hesitate to aid it in its object,
by appropriating for its use, as has been repeatedly suggested, one of the
public squares at Broad and Market Streets.
The following account exhibits the contributions to the Museum in its
various departments during the year.
Mammals. Fifteen specimens were presented by Dr. J. H. Slack, Dr. H. B.
Butcher, U. S. A., S. Powel, Rev. Alden Grant, Mr. Reeves, Joseph E. Shaw,
G. J. Durham, 0. Biddle, W. S. Vaux, and E. D. Cope.
Birds. One hundred and ninety-one from Alaska and Hudson Bay Terri-
tory, were presented by the Smithsonian Institution ; 67 from Texas, by Dr.
H. B. Butcher, U. S. A., and 43 species of birds, nests and eggs, were pre-
sented by Dr. William Zaremba, Dr. V. B. Hubbard, U. S. A , Rev. Alden
1867.]
