12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
This was rendered probable from the occasional occurrence of Wormian
bones near the site of union. In five specimens out of the twenty-three
Wormian bones were found placed between thesquanio-parietal and squamo-
frontal sutures, but more often in the former locality, when they were often
associated with similar bones situated at the temporo-occipital region. The
extent of the suture was subject to much variation ; in some specimens it was
au inch long and well marked, in others it was reduced to a mere point. In
three specimens it was found on one side, the spheno-parietal being present
on the other. In yet another the temporo-frontal was seen on one side and
the spheno-parietal with Wormian bones on the other.
The whole number of specimens was distributed among the varieties of men
as follows :
Anglo-Saxon, Pelasgic, Swede, Chinese, Hindu, Bengalese, Mandau, Semi-
nole Indian, Blackfoot Indian, Iroquois, and Esquimaux, each one. The re-
maining twelve were negro.
This observation lead to the examination of the skulls of the mammalia,
the result being as follows :
Spheno-parietal suture. Temporo-frontal suture.
Simia morio. Troglodytes niger,
Simia satyrus, ex, Hylobates,
Semnopithecus, Cercopithecus, ex,
Catarrhini, Plattyrrhini,
LemuriDvE, Bison,
Marsdpialia, Bos,
Carniyora, Tragus,
Cetacea, Tapirus,
Sirenia, Rhinoceros,
Ruminantia, ex. Sus,
Choeropsis, Equus,
Hyrax, Rodentia,
Dicotyles. Edentata,
Troglodytes gorjlla, Hvpsiprymnus.
In the anthropoid apes it was found that the temporo-frontal suture was
constant in the skull of all the species excepting S. morio and one specimen
of S- satyrus. Prof. Owen* mentions the sphenoparietal articulation in 5.
satyrus, and considers it a distinctive character of Simia ; but in the skull of
a young individual examined, the suture was indubitably temporo frontal.
Out of seventeen specimens of Cercopithecus in the collection seven had the
spheno-parietal articulation. In two of these it was spheno-parietal on one
side, temporo-frontal on the other.
In the Iluminautia the alisphenoid was very slightly developed, the union
being effected by the external angular process of the parietal growing down-
wards in a long falciform extension. This was seen to be a conspicuous
feature in the skulls of this order. The variation noticed in Bison, Bos and
Tragus, had its origin in the first two genera in the unusual development of
the frontal bone backwards and outwards, reaching the temporal bone by
cutting off, as it were, the descending process of the parietal. In the last,
one specimen only was examined ; the spheno-parietal union was complete
on one side, while the temporo-frontal was hut faintly determined on the
other. It was thought probable that the skulls of young individuals of th-se
genera would show upon examination the same plan of construction in this
particular as others of the order.
The suture was seen to be invariable in (arnivora, Cetacea, Sirenia, Eden-
tata ami Rodentia; but inconstant among the members of Marsupialia
and the Oavierian order Pachydermata. Among the marked contrasts here
observed were those between Sus and Dicotyles, Hyrax and Rhinoceros.
* Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. i., 1835, 368.
[Feb.
