NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241
Hubbard, John Krider, J. E. Eshleman, S. R. Roberts, Dr. II. C. Wood, Jr.,
Isaac Lea, Geo. Scarborough, W. D. Harlman, M.D., Geo. H. Horn, M.D., John
Cassin, Thos. Bland, Wesley Newcomb, Wm. S. Vaux, R. E. C. Stearns, Miss
Anna Abbott, J. L. Julius, J. H. Redfield, Dr. James Lewis, and Jacob Ennis.
Types of Rafinesque's Unios, with the original labels in his handwriting,
were obtained by purchase from the collection of the late Chas. A. Poulson.
In addition to the above, the magnificent collection of over one hundred
thousand specimens of ten thousand species, deposited by Mr. Geo. W.
Tryon, Jr., has been received and incorporated with the main collection,
making our cabinet richer than any other in the world in specimens, and
the richest in species with one exception, that of the British Museum.
A collection of one hundred and eight species of American shells has been
sent to Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sydney, Australia, in exchange for Polynesian
shells, received from him. A similar collection has been sent to M. Luigi
Benoit, of Sicily, and a smaller one to M. Spiridione Brusina.
The various collections received during the year have been arranged,
labelled and deposited in their proper places in the cabinet by Messrs.
Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., Chas. F. Parker, S. R. Boberts and others, who have
devoted much time and labor to the work. The proper systematic arrange-
ment has been somewhat interfered with in consequence of the very limited
accommodation afforded our magnificent collection in our present building,
nor can any remedy for this inconvenience be at present suggested.
Dr. S. B. Howell has kindly undertaken the arrangement of our alcoholic
collection, and has made considerable progress therein.
Opportunity having offered to acquire a portion of the collection of shells
belonging to the late Hugh Cuming, of London, which portion consists of
about one thousand species not yet in our museum, a subscription list was
opened, and our appeal having been answered encouragingly, the shells
were ordered, and some of them are now on their way to the Academy.
Although the Conchological Section of the Academy has been in exist-
ence but little over a year, yet an observation of its present condition can-
not, we believe, fail to be gratifying to all interested in the science for the
encouragement of which it was instituted. Whilst the augmentation of the
collection during that time has been beyond all precedent, a reference to the
list of our contributors will prove that the interest taken in the department
is not confined to our members alone, but is manifested by others who are
not so intimately connected with us, both at home and abroad.
In conclusion, we beg leave to congra'ulate those present that through their
instrumentality, the interest heretofore manifested in our science has been
greatly increased, and to hope that their efforts may be still farther success-
ful in the future in gaining for Conchology that prominent position among
the Natural Sciences which it so well deserves.
Respectfully submitted by
JOSEPH LEIDY, Conservator.
LIBRARIAN'S REPORT.
There have been presented during the past year to the Conchological Sec-
tion of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 14<> volumes, and 298 periodicals,
Pamphlets, &c. Of these works, 11)5 are from Authors, 12 from Editors, 14
from Societies, 12 from Smithsonian Institution, 5 from Publication Commit-
tee of Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences, and 140
bound volumes, and 60 pamphlets, &C, from G. W. Tryon, Jr.
In addition to the above there have been presented to the Academy of
Natural Sciences, 21 volumes, pamphlets, &c, on Conchological subjects.
Respectfully submitted.
C. P. PARKER,
Librarian.
1867.] 16
