NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13
From the early obliteration of all cranial sutures in Cheiroptera andlnsec-
tivora many young individuals of the former order were examined nothing
definite was ascertained concerning them. It is reasonable to suppose that
they resemble the Carnivora.
Dr. Allen further spoke of a distinguishing feature between the skulls of
the new and old world monkeys. In the former there is no bony external
meatus; in the latter there is a well defined osseous tube as in man. He also
invited attention to an interesting feature in the skull of a young Chimpan-
zee, in which it was found that the lachyrmal and ethmoid bones were sepa-
rated from one another by an ascending process of the orbital plate of the
superior maxilla, which articulated with the internal angular process of the
frontal bone. The peculiarity had not been seen in any ape, though a human
skull in the collection (Esquimaux) exhibited it.
It was thought that the subject of sutures was of interest from an anatom-
ical stand-point and might, after more extended comparison, prove of value
in classification.
A letter was read from Dr. Charles M. Wetherill as follows :
Bethlehem, Pa., Feb. 16th, 1867.
Wm. S. Vaui, Esq. :
Bear Sir, Will you do me the favor to communicate to the Academy the
following results, which I have reached in an investigation (not yet completed)
upon the Itacolumite.
The so-called flexible character of this sandstone is universally attributed to
the mica which it contains. I have succeeded, beyond a doubt, in establish-
ing the fact that the said motion is due to innumerable ball and socket joints.
This wonderful molecular grouping warrants, I thiak, the suggestion of " arti-
culites " as a generic name for this class of sandstones. I succeeded in first
observing the play of these joints upon their sections under the microscope,
taken in three planes relative to the plane of stratification. It is, however,
unnecessary to incur the labor of preparing such sections; the motion may be
perceived with any fragment by examination with the microscope, moving the
loose particles in the joints with the needle point, or removing the said parti-
cles, thus dissecting the specimens.
The joints are not similar to those observed in columns of basalt. The
fragments of quartz are very small and very sharp; twenty, thirty or more of
these sand particles are cemented to each other to form irregular compound
molecules. The protuberances of these are engaged in the cavities of neigh-
boring groups, and so irregular and abundant is the jointing, that a slight
motion is permitted in any direction.
A long thin rod of the sandstone may be twisted, elongated, compressed
longitudinally, or bent nearly equally in any direction. When suspended by
its extremities, the rod takes the form of a curve which very nearly approaches
a true catenary. My friend and colleague, Prof. E. W. Morgan, of the Lehigh
University, is, at my request, stu'iyingtbe exact nature of the curve thus formed.
The specimens examined are from two localities; from Mines Geraes in Bra-
zil, a specimen in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution ; and another
from Stokes Co., N. C. Au analysis of the latter showed a large proportion of
silicic acid, and the cement, if it be one, which unites the grains of sand, is not
ferruginous, as was shown by boiling a thin sectioD, during a considerable
period, with hydrochloric acid.
I would be very much obliged to you (or to any member of the Academy,)
if you would furnish me with specimens of Itacolumite from different locali-
ties for this investigation.
I have thought that the establishment of the curious molecular character of
this mineral might lead to a knowledge of the physical conditions by whirh it
was effected and perhaps throw light upon that vexed question, the origin of
the diamond. Very truly yours,
Charles M. Wetherill.
1867.]
