NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15
CONCHOLOGY. LIBRARY.
George W. Tryon, Jr., Joseph Leidy,
E. R. Beadle, John Cassin,
C. F. Parker. Robert Bridges.
ENTOMOLOGY AND CRUSTACEA. PROCEEDINGS.
John L. Le Conte, Joseph Leidy,
J. H. B. Bland, William S. Vaux,
Tryon Reakirt. John Cassin,
Robert Bridges,
George W. Tryon, Jr.
Od favorable report of the respective committees, the following were
ordered to be published :
On Colonies of PLANTS observed near Philadelphia.
BY AUBREY H. SMITH.
During the years 1864, 18G5 and 1866, a large number of introduced plants,
chiefly southern, were found growing on the waste grounds below the Phila-
delphia Navy Yard, and at Kaighn's Point and Petty's Island, on the opposite
shore of the Delaware.
It has been thought by those who were engaged in the work of collection,
that some account of these localities and a list of the plants themselves should
be placed at the command of students investigating the subject of the introduc-
tion and naturalization of plants. To meet this view I have prepared the fol-
lowing pages.
The city of Philadelphia is built on a low gravelly bluff, extending along the
right bank of the Delaware with little interruption from Kensington on the
north to the Navy Yard on the south. It is scarcely practicable now to define
accurately the limits of this bluff, but it may be stated, in general terms, that
above Kensington and below the Navy Yard, it recedes from the river, and its
place is supplied by tide marshes to a greater or less extent. Northward these
marshes have been largely filled up and built upon, but southward the low
margin of the river has been but partially reclaimed.
Immediately below the Navy Yard, the rim of tide marsh does not exceed two
or three hundred yards in width. Further down the river it widens greatly,
and has been banked in for agricultural and grazing purposes. Between the
Navy Yard and the banked meadows, the tide flats have awaited the slow de-
mands of commerce for their utilization.
The first step to the reclamation of the flats is the extension of the lines of the
eastern streets to the line of low tide, and the building of bulk-heads of logs at
their extremities below low water mark. The streets thus extended are filled up
with waste earth from cellars and similar excavations, and thus causeways are
made out to the bulk-heads. Next, the bulk-heads themselves are extended
right and left to meet similar works from the ends of other streets. The wharf
line thus built is then conveniently secured by the deposit behind it of sand
and gravel ballast from coasting vessels, as well as of earth brought specially
for the purpose. Behind it, there will, of course, exist a pond or lagoon, to be
filled up from time to time, from the river or from the land, as materials may
offer themselves on either side of it.
From Dickerson Street northward to the Navy Yard, the flats have been en-
tirely reclaimed, and coal wharves and ship yards occupy their place. South-
ward of this street, at the distance of six or seven hundred feet, an earthen em-
bankment extends Morris Street to the line of low water, and a bulk-head
1867.]
