16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
carried to the left connects this causeway with the reclaimed land at Dicker-
son Street. A pond, not now of more than three acres in extent, lies behind
the bulk-head, and communicates with the river by a covered sluice, through
which the tide ebbs and flows. Between the pond and the river are some two
acres of ground made by the deposit there, through many years, of sand and
gravel ballast from the coasters, and of mud from the cleansing of the docks
of the city. On the west and north the pond is rapidly diminishing in size, as
waste materials from the city are cast into it, and in a few years it will no
doubt wholly disappear. The marshes formerly existing above Dickerson
Street have been reclaimed by the same process, and those below Morris Street
will in time be dealt with in a similar manner. Upon the reclaimed land be-
hind the bulk-head between Dickerson and Morris Streets have been found the
greater part of the plants enumerated in this list. This locality, which for
convenience we have called the Ballast Ground, did not exist fifteen years ago,
for the bulk-head which protects it from the river has itself been built within
that period. Some of the plants may, however, have existed in similar places
along the river for a long time. Muhlenberg, in his catalogue published in
1813, mentions Senebiera rfidyma and (Jynodon Dactylon as plants of Pennsylvania,
though since his day they have only been found, so far as I have learned, at
or near this place. Salsola Kali is not rare in the waste grounds about Phila-
delphia, and Atriplex hastala, its maritime congener, is abundant in every neg-
lected out-lot. Pluchea camphorata and Aster hnifolius are firmly established in
a pool, at the foot of Tasker Street, not connected with the pond behind the
Ballast Ground and probably of much older date and different origin, whilst
Artemisia biennis is abundant in by-places for half a mile about.
The unenclosed grounds below the Navy Yard are in some respects very
favorably situated for the growth of southern plants. The trend of the river
shore being south by west, the whole width of the city spreads between them
and the quarters from which the colder winds blow. Those of the north and
north-west must pass before reaching the Navy Yard for four or five miles over
houses and factories, the innumerable fires of which will at all times temper
their rigor, whilst the easterly, southerly and south-westerly winds are made
yet milder by the wide expanse of water over which they come. The ground
too being at the level of tide offers the most favorable conditions, so far as
elevation is concerned.
I regret that it has not been in my power to obtain thermometrical observa-
tions from which a comparison might be made of the average temperatures, at
different seasons, of several points in a line running north-westwardly from the
Navy Yard to Girard College. From these we could learn whether or not the
causes I have indicated are able to produce sensible effects on the vegeta-
tion at the margin of the river. Those at Girard College are all that are needed
for that station, but, there being no intermediate ones, they are of no avail for
the present purpose.
Nearly opposite the Ballast Ground, on the New Jersey side of the river at
Kaighn's Point, is a large enclosed ship and timber yard, which presents con-
ditions somewhat similar to those of the locality just described. A portion of
the low ground at this place has been filled in and levelled out to the wharves
and bulk-heads, whilst another part of it remains nearly in its natural state.
From this enclosure come the most of the plants attributed in this list to
Kaighn's Point, though a few of them have been found without its limits.
IVtty's Island is a tract of reclaimed alluvion on the New Jersey side of the
Delaware, opposite the mouth of Cooper's Creek, which has been, to some ex-
tent, used of late years as a place of deposit for ballast, sand and other waste
and rough material. It was not known as a botanical locality of interest until
visited during the present year (1866) by Mr. Isaac Hurk. Since his discovery of
it, however, it has been constantly and carefully watched by him and other bo-
tanists, and the results of their observations are to be found herein.
Both Kaighn's Point and Petty's Island share the advantages for the growth
[Feb.
