NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 17
and naturalization of the plants of warmer climates which have been ascribed
to the Ballast Ground. Sheltered by the wide sweep of the city crescent from
the colder winds, they lie at the level of tide with the broad expanse of the
river, further to temper the atmosphere which reaches them.
I have been thus minute in the description of these localities, in order not
only that the circumstances under which these curious colonies of strangers
have taken up their abode with us may be understood, but, in the anticipation
of their speedy destruction as the city extends its limits, and of the establish-
ment of similar ones elsewhere on its outskirts, that those who shall observe
such future settlements may have the means of tracing their history and
development.
The Ballast Ground locality was discovered by Messrs. Diffenbaugh and
Parker in the latter part of the season of 1864; that at Kaighu's Point was
made known about the same time by the last named gentleman. Since then
the plants of those places, and in 18(36 those of Petty's Island, have been care-
fully watched and collected by a number of botanists. Among these I may
especially mention Dr. Martin dale and Messrs. Burk, Diffenbaugh and Parker,
to each of whom I am indebted for some of the rarest in the list.
All the plants have been submitted to Prof. T. C. Porter, and the determina-
tions in all cases of difficulty have his full concurrence. Dr. Porter himself
shared the work of collection.
It will be observed in many instances that the fruit has not matured, and in
some that not even the flower has appeared. This may not always have been
due to the shortness of the season, but sometimes to the late deposit of the
sand or gravel with which the seeds have been brought from the south.
A small number of the plants of 1864 did not re-appear in 1865, and some
of those of 1865 were not found in 1866. One or two of them, threatened by
the frost before flowering or fruiting, were transplanted, and developed their
characters under glass. For this service we are indebted to Mr. Kilvington
and Dr. Leidy.
Many plants were found growing with those enumerated in the list, which
are regarded as introduced, but which are not strictly confined to the localities
above described. Some of these are rare and of limited distribution. Never-
theless, but few of them have been included herein, inasmuch as this list
is intended, in the main, to contain the names only of those which have not
hitherto been collected in the neighborhood of Philadelphia. At a subsequent
period, a supplemental catalogue may be given of such of these as shall be
deemed of interest.
This list exhibits, as nearly as my information enables me to give it, the
actual state of the adventive flora of the several localities in each of the years
of collection ; but it is proper to say that the time which has elapsed since
their discovery has been too short to justify any positive assertion as to the
completeness of the catalogue, or the appearance or disappearance of any
of the plants named in it.
1. Erysimum oriental e, R. Br. (Brassica orientalis, L.) Three speci-
mens collected at Kaighn's Point in 1866. Fruit perfected. Adv. from
Europe, where it is widely distributed.
2. Sinapis alba,//. A single plant, collected on the waste grounds north-
west of the Ballast Ground by Mr. Diffenbaugh, on the 17th June, 1865.
Fruit perfected. Adv. from Europe.
3. Senebiera d i d y m a, Pers. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's Point, Sept. and
Oct., 1864, 1865, 1866. Abundant and in mature fruit rather less common in
the latter year. Hab. North Carolina to Florida ; Chapman. Also waste
places at ports, &c, Virginia to Carolina an immigrant from farther south;
Gray.
1867.] 2
