24 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP
palea? and the flowering culms included in their sheaths, grows sparingly along
the margins of the pond and elsewhere in the vicinity in damp places. Mr.
Burk lias observed this second form for twelve or fifteen years past on the hard
dry surface of the Point Road below the old Southwark Canal. He states
it to have been more abundant in 18G6than ever before. Ilab. Pennsylvania
and southward ; Gray. Nat. from Europe.
100. [>a< tyloctenium -Kgyp t ia c um, Willd. Ballast Ground and Kaighn's
Point, 1864, 18G5, 1866. Common in both localities. Rather less frequent in
1866 than before. Ilab. Virginia, Illinois and southward; Gray.
101. Leptochloa mucronata, Kunth. Kaighn's Point, 1865. Not fre-
quent. Ilab. Virginia to Illinois and southward ; Gray.
102. Leptochloa fa sc i c u lar is, Gray. Kaighn's Point, 1866. Collected
by Mr. Burk. Scarce. Ilib. Rhode Island and Southward along the coast;
Gray.
103. Glyceria d is tan s, Wahl. Spreading over the vacant lots west of the
Ballast Ground. Abundant. Ilab. Salt marshes along the coast; Gray.
104. Brizopyrum spicatum, Hook. Ballast Ground, 1865, 1866. Stami-
nate plants only. Ilab. Salt marshes; Gray.
105. Paspalum distichum, L. Ballast Ground, 1864, 1865, 1866. Along
the wit margin of the pond, in similar places at Kaighn's Point, and in 1866 at
Petty's Island. Abundant and with mature fruit. Ilab. Virginia and south-
ward ; Gray.
106. Panicum a m a ru m, Ell. Ballast Ground, 1865. Two flowering spe-
cimens. Again in 1866, but only one or two plants not in flower. Ilab.
Sandy shores, Connecticut and southward ; Gray.
The Cutting Ant of Texas 0EC0D0MA TEXANA, Buckley.
BY GIDEON LINCECUM.
In many portions of Texas this species of ant is quite numerous and trouble-
some. It is capable of and actually docs perpetrate more real perplexing in-
jury to the horticulturist and farmer, than all the other types of Texan ants
put together. In form and color the larger varieties of them do not ditl'er in
appearance V-ery much from the agricultural ants. A great portion of our
citizens -peak of these two ants without distinction, as being the same species.
There is. however, a well-marked difference in their community regulations;
in their manners and customs, iii their mode of constructing their cities, in
their peculiar food and manner of preparing it. and iii their civil and military
ijo\ em incuts.
There are five varieties or castes in this Species, all of which iua\ lie seen in
the Bame community, or citj as I prefer to call it. They vary in size from thai
of a drone honej bee down to near thai of the little black erratic ant; and
their duties and vocations are as varianl as their sizes. The largest size have-
rs and are the mot her ants. They dwell in the ground in sandy lands, and
one of their long established cities will, on an average, acoupy at least two
square rods of surface. The area of the city is considerably elevated ; often
one to two feet, and sometimes even more. The earth which is thus thrown
up, and which is universally sand, is thrown out from their numerous and
capacious oells below, and from their extensive tunnels or subterranean
passages. To their cells they have many holes, or places of entrance, and
gome of them are tunnelled off several hundred yards,
It is known tO nianv observant Texans that in all the larger cities the ants
TFcb.
