NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 25
have penetrated the earth to water. This accords with my not very limited
experience on the subject. I know of a number of wells which were inten-
tionally sunk in the cutting ant hills to procure water, and I have been in-
formed by the owners of these wells, that ant cells, tunnels and live ants were
found all the way down to the water. I have myself seen and drank water out
of eight of these wells, and have accounts of many others. I have not heard
of a failure in any attempt for obtaining water by digging in a cutting ant
hill.
Mr. G. W. Brooks states that, in Chappel Hill, Washington County, Texas,
Columbus Pearson dug a well in an ant hill and obtained plenty of water at
the depth of thirty feet. The facts in this case worthy of notice, and for
which it is here recorded, is the manner in which the ants had also sunk two wells
to the water. These ant wells were large and well-formed, one of them being
fully twelve inches in diameter, the other six inches, both going straight down
to the water. The walls of these wells were travel-worn and stained of a dirty
brown color, presenting the appearance of having been in use for years.
Mr. Pearson states that, if these ant wells had been opened properly, a bucket
could have been let down the largest one at the outset.
Dr. Fechtig, of Brenham, informed me that he had been making observations
on the cutting ant for some months ; and some of his discoveries, which he
was kind enough to communicate to me, are valuable and of an interesting
character, particularly as they afford additional testimony in favor of observa-
tions I have made in reference to the disposition of the dirt which comes out
of their tunnels, &c. These passages are always commenced within the com-
pass of the city mound ; the sand that is taken from the tunnels is always thrown
back on the mound. These tunnels are made at the depth of eight to twelve
inches, and in the direction of the object for which they are excavated. Some-
times, as I will show presently, on extraordinary occasions they are carried at
a much greater depth. Dr. Fechtig's case, which I will now relate, was a tun-
nel from one of their cities to a neighboring well ; the tunnel entering the well
ten or twelve feet below the surface of the ground. The well being walled
with oak timbers, the ants had cut their way through to gain access to the
water. In performing the boring through the thick oaken curbing, they threw
down into the well so much saw-dust that the people were forced to strain the
water previous to using it. On examination Dr. Fechtig found that a quantity
of oak chips, similar to those which had been separated from the well water,
had also been thrown out on the ant mound.
Situated in a garden at Austin, Texas, there was a large, very populous and
seemingly prosperous cutting ant city. The ants had for years, in spite of
many patent traps and newly discovered ant poisons, damaged the garden ex-
tensively. The proprietor of the garden at last conceived the idea that he
would try to drown them, and for this purpose dug a large basin-formed pit in
the ant mound, and led trenches into it right and left from the hillside above
the ant city, to convey the water into the basin when it should rain. Not long
after this preparation was completed, there came a tremendous rain storm.
Large quantities of water rushed along the ditches into the basin dug in the
mound. To the gentleman's surprise the basin did not fill, but seemed to send
forth hollow sounds. After the rain was over it was found that all the water
which had been conveyed into the basin had been swallowed up. There is a
creek with a flat rock bottom about seventy yards from the ant hill, and it was
discovered that the water from the trenches had rushed down the wells of the
ant city, washing out, down to the rock, (22 feet), an immense hole, thence
along a great tunnel on top of the rock, to the before named creek, where the
entire sluice, charged with millions of ants and sand and mud, made its escape
into the creek.
Under a beautiful wide spreading live-oak (Q. Virens) on the west border of
the town of La Grange, Texas, there was an extensive and flourishing ant city.
The city mound was large, occupying the entire area overshadowed by the
1867.]
