26 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE ACADEMY OF
live-oak. Nearly on a level and not exceeding eighty yards from the ant hill,
there was a considerable pondfof filthy water, which, being in the street, the
town authorities ordered it drained. A ditch was opened along one side of the
Btreel which intersected the ant mound near its center, and for the purpose of
inundating and drowning the ants, the workmen let the water into the ditch,
and when it reached the mound (which had hem ditched through to its further
side) it found many Open passages, down which it flowed quite freely. It was
near night when the workmen Left it. with the water passing into and seeming
to be rapidly enlarging the hole it had already opened in the mound.
The workmen and a number of the town people visited the place next morn-
ing. The pond was dry, and the ant mound had also disappeared; and what
was more wonderful still, the large live-oak had settled down into the
chasm that had been made by the disappearance of the ant mound, until the
lower limbs of the tree were resting en the brink of it. (The lower limbs of a
prairie live-oak are seldom more than six or seven feet above ground.) The
outer en. Is of the verv numerous live-oak roots were still clinging^by their long
ramifications in the walls of the great pit all around, and the large tree was
swinging securely upon this net-work of roots as upon a hammock. But where
did the water, mound and ants all go to ? was the question among the La Grange
folks. The ('(dorado river passes in its deep channel three hundred yards dis-
tant from the anthill, and the popular supposition was, that the mound, ant.- and
all. had passed through their great tunnel, which they had previously excavated.
into the river. Several years have gone by, and still when it rains the pond
vents itself through that ant chasm, and the live-oak. though still green and
thrifty, hi i deeper in the ground. I know of many other wells and tun-
nels that were made by the cutting ants, but as I have recorded a sufficient
number id' them here to establish these great works as a characteristic trait in
their national action, it is deemed unn< i i ssary to add any more.
All the sand and other material that is seen piled on the ant mound comes
from the wells, tunnels and cells which are excavated for the accommodation
oi tin ants. The work required to throv. up these quite conspicuous mounds
must have consumed many year-, as well as an immense amount of labor. All
the 3and-carrying labor is performed by the smaller sizes of ants, principally
by the very smallest. These are of a dingy brown color, and when crowded
have a wooll] appearance. These little fellows are lazy and extremely slow in
their motion ; seeming to perform their dailj work with great reluctance. They
are often found crowding in each others way about the gates of the city, and
do not Beem to feel any interest in what they are doing, which is to carry sand
day by day. For their size they carry large loads, but they lose the advantage
of the big loads by their slow motions. The larger types of this species, which
move with greater celerity, pay no attention to the sand carriers, but pass out
and in, walking Over them and their big loads of sand as if they were the pave-
ment. While! observe the slow, careless action of these lazy little mound
builder-.. I cannol avoid the conclusion that they are slaves.
A- the cutting ants perform their destructive works mostly daring the night.
I have not made sufficient observation 0:1 their nocturnal action to Btate cer-
tainlj that they employ their slaves in the leaf-cutting business at all. They
have large mandibles and sharp teeth, and 1 think it Itkely that they are capa-
ble and, perhaps, do participate in the labors and duties of all the departments
in the national v. The cutting ants subsisl entirely on the leaves of
tables. Thej ill - at the leaves of various trees, shrubs and some herbai
plants. [ have not observed them eating of any of the grasses. Sometimes
during warm Bpells iu winter when, as 1 suppose, their provision stores have
run short, I have seen them cutting and carrying home the buds of the long
,,,,,-. (Tillandsia usneoides.) I think, however, that this alternative is resorted
t ily in periods of great scarcity; as I have never observed them collecting
the moss during summer, or at ma other time while the season of green foliage
, ontinues. Thej Beem to have a regular and well disciplined corps of foragers,
[Feb.
