NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27
and these, after a suitable tree has been selected by their scouts for them to
work at, go forth about twilight and, ascending the designated tree, frequently
the tallest willow-oak, (Q. phellos) commence the work of destruction. Thej
cut the green leaves into pieces not much less than a five cent piece, and seiz-
ing it near one corner with their capacious mandibles elevate it, and tilting it
backwards over the crown of the head, it falls edgewise between two strong
spines, or horns, which stand erect at the back part of the forehead. Having
their load thus adjusted, which, to the observer, seems to stand on its edge on
top of the head and lengthways with the body, they hasten away to the ap-
pointed place of deposit. It is quite an interesting sight to observe with what
precision and celerity they can edge their piece of leaf along amongst hundreds
of their fellow laborers who are all carrying similar burthens, while they are
meeting on the path an equal number of workers who are hurrying back to the
tree empty.
They deposit the leaves on the ground at the place appointed for curing
them, where they are left to dry in the sun through the succeeding day. Some-
times the new cut leaves are deposited near the entrance to the city ; at other
times they are strewed thickly along the path from the tree to the city ; and
not unfrequently they are thrown down in a pile near the root of the tree from
whence they were taken. In either case they are left exposed all day in the
sunshine ; und they are, during the succeeding night, carefully gathered up
and taken into the city ; this rule obtains in autumn ; they do not cure their
leaves until towards winter. All summer time they are carried directly from
the tree into the city. Whilst the dried leaves are being stored away, the
foragers are engaged in cutting and laying out a quantity of fresh leaves, which
undergo the same processes of curing and storing as the previous lot ; and so
on through the season for storing up food for winter. But should a shower of
rain fall upon and wet the laid out leaves while they are out drying, it renders
them unfit for food, and they are not stored. I have noticed many piles of
these spoiled leaves rotting on the ground that had been damaged by being
caught in the rain.
In vaj observations on the habits of the cutting ants, I have not discovered
them eating anything besides the foliage of various plants. Neither have I ever
noticed them carrying anything else into their cities. Prof. S. B. Buckley, who
is a very close and accurate observer, states that he saw them carrying hack-
berries (Celtis occidentalis) and that they eat insects, tumble bugs, &c. The
hackberry has a sweet pulpy covering, and I think it likely that if one of the
leaf-eating ants was to find a hackberry, it would try to carry it home ; but it
being a perfect globe, a little too large for the span of its mandibles, I see not
how it could effect it. As to their feeding on insects, I shall not pretend to
deny it, for these wonderful, cunning and very sagacious ants doubtless per-
form many habitual actions that have passed unnoticed in my eighteen years
observation.
It is stated that this species of ant does not lay up stores of provisions for
winter supplies. I have not opened one of their cities during winter, and there-
fore cannot assert that they do. But from the immense quantities of haves
collected by them during the autumnal months, which are carefully sun dried
and taken into the city, I should feel at a loss to say, if it is not intended for
winter food, what other use they can put such quantities of leaves to ; and
furthermore, when it is known to be the kind of food upon which they subsist.
It is also known that they construct cells from fifteen to twenty-five feet below
the surface below the line of change of temperature, and in these deep sub-
terranean apartments for their winter quarters, they would not become torpid,
but would remain active. Now, if during the warm season it is necessary for
them to consume the almost incredible amount of leaves which we see them
daily carrying in, it becomes a matter of surprise an unaccountable I hint;' in-
deed how they can make out through the winter months without anything to
eat, when we know that they are not in a torpid state but lively and active.
1867.]
