28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
In this vicinity within the last two years, (1861) the cutting-ants have greatly
diminished. Many large cities have dwindled away to a few thinly populated
holes: whilst many others are entirely depopulated. This, I think, is mainly
attributable to the protracted dry weather. With many other species, particu-
larly the agricultural and little black ants, long drouths seems to favor their
increase. Not so with the cutting ant. They evidently decline. A seven
war- drouth would cause their wells to dry up as it did many of the wells be-
longing to the genus homo, I know of several very pretty homes that were
evacuated the present year by human families, on account of the failure of
their wells. Their wells dried up, and as they could not deepen them suf-
ficiently to obtain a supply of water, they were obliged to leave their long
cherished and well-fixed homes. The ants have done the same thing, and as I
think for the same reason. Their wells also failed and they have perished for
want of water, or have emigrated to districts more congenial to their peculiar
mode of life. Anyhow, they have greatly diminished, and many large cities
are actually depopulated and lying in ruins.
On the first of August, 18(J1, I discovered in a grove of thick timber and
much undergrowth, a great many cutting-ant holes. They were all around in
the bushes, extending perhaps over an acre of ground. They were all alike
of recent date ; their newly thrown up little heaps of fresh sand was what first
attracted my attention. Finding them there on the hill-side, and actually
boring holes in the thick woods, was a performance so entirely contrary to
their customary habits, that I was led to the examination of the matter, and
if possible to ascertain the cause of this strange unantlike proceeding. My
first impression was. there being a large and very ancient city a few hundred
yards distant from the new settlement, that it was the work of the recently
thrown off queens from that old kingdom ; that the young queens had stopped
short in the shady woods in consequence of the hot dry weather, and were set-
ting up for themselves in a new style, it being on a declivity and in a densely
shaded woodland. I however excused them for all these fiagranl deviations
from their long established customs, by laying it to the continuous drouth and
hot weather. I did not leave them until I had marked the place that I might
visit them again, and find out how such a multiplicity of new settlements
in so small a track of country would manage in the future. I then paid a visit
to the large old ant city spoken of above. I had many times within the pre-
ceding twelve years, visited and made observations on its extraordinary public
works. When I came there 1 was astonished to find thai its inhabitants were
all gone. I found only the large old mound of sand, now smoothed down by
time's BWeeping winds and the passing cattle, but there were no inhabitants
all had disappeared. They had evidently emigrated to the new settlements I
had encountered down the hillside in the thick shady forest, and the inhabi-
tants thereof were not, as I at firsl surmised, the newly commenced communi-
ties of the young queens, but emigrating parties who had gone out from the
old citj in search of water. Their wells having failed, they could no longer
remain in the city, and having left it. had proceeded lower down the hill, and
hoping to find water, were Bin king many new wells. Subsequent observations
have continued me in this opinion. The new settlement in a short time were
uated. Having been unsuccessful in obtaining water at the new place, the
nil- had either died out or gone to some other district.
In accordance with my observations on this subject, I am forced to the con-
clusion that the drouth continued too long for them; that in districts where
the wells are liable to dry up they often perish. I find that the kingdoms thai
are located near a constant stream, arc in a flourishing state, and have con-
tinue. I so through all the time of the protracted dry Beason.
The cutting-ants plant seels of various trees, \ ines and other plants. "When
they locate a > i t \ in bald prairie, which is often the case where they cannot
procure the Beeds of trees, they cultivate the prickly p"ppy (Argemone Mexi-
- ana,) the most appropriate plant for their purpose that grows on the prairie.
[Feb.
