NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 31
ducting parties the best route to it ; and soon a good smooth road is con-
structed, over which in crowds the workers are seen through the night, or
in cool cloudy days, transporting the leaves to the city. This is their mode,
invariably, in a country where the grass has been destroyed, and we can see
and understand the method and the purpose for which they work. But in a
country which is heavily coated with high grass, it is not so easy to discover
by what process they lay off a tunnel and successfully carry it in a direct line
to the selected tree or garden spot a quarter of a mile distant, and sometimes
beyond a considerable streamlet of running water.
On one occasion, on a log that lay across the Ye Gua Creek, the ants passed
over to a gentleman's garden and were rapidly cutting his vegetables to
pieces. The owner hoping to rid the garden of these troublesome insects,
cut the log away and it floated off down the creek. He was mistaken in his
calculations, for it was but a few days after when the ants were ravaging the
garden in as great numbers as they were previous to the removal of the log.
After searching unsuccessfully for some interlocking tree that might afford
them a passage, it was observed that the ants came out from several holes,
situated on the creek side of the garden. Subsequently it was discovered
that, on a large ant mound crowning a sandy point near the edge of some
post-oak timber, two hundred yards from the creek, there were quantities
of the black soil of the Ye Gua bottom thrown out, proving that the second
visit of the ants to the gentleman's garden had been effected by a tunnel be-
neath the bed of the creek ; the channel of the creek, at that place is fifteen
or twenty feet deep, and from bank to bauk on top of the bluff about thirty
feet.
By what degree of the instinctive powers was all this engineering and truly
great project accomplished.
I have never seen the cutting ants fighting among themselves, or with any
of the other species. I look upon them as the most peaceable, the most
sagacious, and at the same time the most destructive of the ant kind.
March bfh.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty-six members present.
The following papers were presented for publication :
" On the Structure of Lopezia." By Thomas Meehan.
" Mammalogical Notices." By J. H. Slack, M. D.
March VLth.
Mr. Cassin, Vice President, in the Chair.
Forty-two members present.
The death was announced of Prince Maximilian, of Wied, a Corres-
pondent.
The following was presented for publication :
" The necessity of Nebular Rotation." By J. Ennis.
Prof. Cope exhibited the fossil skull of a large turtle, from a soft
granular limestone belonging to the cretaceous formation of Barnsboro,
Gloucester Co., N. J. It was characterized under the name of Kuclas-
tes platyops. The length of the skull is 11 inches; its breadth 8]
inches.
1867.]
