32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
March 19/7*.
The President, Dr. Hays, n the Chair
Thirty-nine members and correspondents present.
The following were presented for publication :
" On Euclastes, a genus of extinct Cbelonidre." By E. D. Cope.
Prof. Leidy exhibited a number of plates of a forthcoming work on the ex-
tinct mammals of Nebraska and Dakota, comprising about seventy species.
Among these he exhibited the representation of a skull of a new ruminant
which he characterized under the name of Agrioehoerus latifrons.
In answer to a question, Prof. Leidy remarked that he had never detected
the slightest evidence of the former existence of the Hippopotamus in Ameri-
ca. Remains reported as such had turned out to be infeiior tusks of Mastodon,
<kc.
Prof. Cope presented to the Academy a young specimen of the whale, known
as the Bahia Finner, procured near Bahia, Brazil, the length of which was 21
feet. He said it belonged to the genus Megaptera, Gray, with the hunchback
whales of sailors. The evidence consists in the very t-hort di-and parapophy-
ses of the cervical vertebra 1 and the absence of all trace of acromion and co-
racoid processes. The orbital processes of the frontal are narrowed externally
and the muzzle considerably narrowed. Judging from the name, it possesses
a more fully developed dorsal fin than the other Megaptera. It should be
called Megaptera braziliensis.
A letter was read from Prof. J. P. Kirtland, of Cleveland, Ohio,
giving an account of the death of Major Robert Kennicott, which
occurred on the 13th of Ma}', 1866, at Nulato, on the Yukon River,
tJUO miles above its entrance into Behring's Sea.
March 2(Sth.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty. nine members present.
The resignation of membership of 0. N. Barnes was tendered and
accepted.
The death was announced of Washington L. Shermau, M. D., U. S.
A., a member, on May 4th, 1865.
The following were elected members :
Samuel Ashhurst, M. D., Francis Ashhurst. M. D., Rev. I. L.
Beman, Charles Smith, Thomas Earp, Charles Taylor, Moro Phillips,
Samuel Welsh, Lewis Cooper, Benjamin B. Comegys, S. C. Morton,
Mrs. E. P. Long and Miss Bohlen.
The following were elected correspondents:
Hon. George P. Marsh, Florence, Italy ; Dr. Gideon Lincecum, Long
Point, Texas; John R. Willis, Halifax, N. S. ; and Samuel H. Scud-
der, M. 1)., Boston, Mass.
On favorable report of the respective committees the following papers
were ordered to be published :
[March,
