NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33
On the Structure of LOPEZIA.
BY THOMAS MEEHAN.
Lopezia, with its single stamen, is considered as an anomaly amongst ona-
graceous plants ; but an analysis of L. miniata, D.C., shows the structure to
be on the same regular plan with the rest of the order. The genus is described
as having a four-cleft calyx, which for practical purposes it may be considered
to have, but two of the segments evidently belong to the corollate system,
and two of the petals to the staminate axis, making the arrangement, from a
structural point of view, to be a two-cleft calyx, four petals, and four stamens.
It may be well to observe here, that in consequence of the spiral nature of
the growth of plants, the different parts of what we term the same axis are
not developed simultaneously. Stamens, petals, sepals and leaves, are, there-
fore, though apparently from the same axis or verticel, rarely of the same
size or form, and perhaps a careful microscopic examination might show that
they never are. We may assume that the parts of the verticel which have the
priority of development, will have at times a mechanical as well as physio-
logical influence on the form or direction of the later and weaker parts ; and
when the contraction of the spiral line is very rapid, and the axes of the
different verticels brought in close contact, the lowermost and strongest influ-
ence the one above.
This influence is clearly traced in Lopezia. Lindley remarks ( Vegetable
Kingdom, page 724) that "there are really two stamens, one perfect and
bearing an anther, the other sterile and in the form of a spoon-shaped petal."
This spoon-shaped petal is evidently of the same axis, but with a priority of
development, which enables it to grasp with its lamina the anther of the
weaker stamen. In its expansion it thus draws the stamen down with it,
which, in turn, grasping the pistil by a winged filament gives an irregular di-
rection to the central axis by this simple mechanical means. The progress of
this development is very interesting. The lamina of the sterile petal grasps
the anther till long after the pollen sacs have burst, and remains fast in its
hold until some insect or other external agency touches the petal, when the
stamen is released with great force, and the petal springs backwards instanta-
neously on to the already expanded and spreading calyx, and the stamen at the
same time bends back in an opposite direction, scattering its pollen on the
back of the insect or the other disturbing cause. If this liberation has not been
effected at an early age, the stamen flies back at once into a position regularly
corresponding to the sterile petal on the opposite side ; but if early the grasp
it has on the pistil by its clasping filament prevents it doing so. The whole
arrangement with the progress of the development seems the most effectual con-
trivance that could possibly be devised to prevent a flower from fertilizing
its own stigma.*
Beneath these two stamens are two gland- bearing petals, which the analyzer
will have no difficulty in deciding to be two stamens early developed, and par-
taking, in consequence, of a petaloid character. By the overlapping of the
bases when young these have been pushed out so as to be finally developed in
one direction, and beneath them are two perfect petals, also twisted to go in
one direction by the same law.
We now come to the four-cleft calyx, and we notice that no sooner are the
segments fairly expanded than the two weaker ones take the direction towards
each other which characterizes the sets above them, leaving the two-cleft
calyx to hold its position unchanged as such. These petaloid sepals have
evidently been brought down to the position of the true sepals mechanically,
by a temporary cohesion. If we assist very lightly a flower to open it bursts
easily into two parts, almost precisely like the two-cleft calyx of Cm-sea, its
This elasticity basbeen noticed in Lopezia racemosa, Cav., by Curtis in Hot. Mag. t. 251.
1867.] 3
