34 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF
next affinity, showing clearly that its most natural division is on the binary
plan.
It may be further noted in regard to Lopezia miniata, the only perennial
suffruticose species I believe, that the smooth stem, which is considered a
good character in distinguishing it, is only extant while the plant is in a flower-
ing state. It has two distinct systems of growth. During the earliest it is as
hirsute as the other species ; at the conclusion of its early summer growth it
starts anew with a growth which ultimately flowers, and it is this only which
is destitute of hairs.
These notes are made from cultivated plants.
MAMMALOGICAL NOTICES.
BY J. H. SLACK, M. D.
Anthropopithecus tschego.
Troglodytes tschego Duvcirnoy, Arch, du Mus., vol. ix. 1857.
Troglodytes calvus Du Chaillu, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vii. p. 267,
I860.
Size about equal to that of the Anthropopithecus niger. General color black,
sometimes grey in old age. Head bald, black and shining ; chin of adult
bearded. Ears large, much larger than those of the Anthropopithecus gorilla,
though smaller than those of the Chimpanzee.
Habitat. The deep forests, and the table lands of equatorial Africa.
Figure of skeleton, Duvc'moy, Arch, du Mus., vol. ix.
Figure of entire animal, Du Chaillu, Equatorial Africa, p. 406.
A fine adult skeleton of this rare anthropoidal ape, first noticed as a dis-
tinct species by the late lamented Duvernoy, has been for some time in the
collection of the Academy, and has been regarded until lately as that of the
A. niger. For a full account of the osteological difference between the two
species, I must refer to Duvernoy's most valuable and interesting paper ;
though, on placing the skulls of the two animals side by side, their specific
differences must be apparent to the most superficial observer.
A careful study of the species appears to me to clearly prove the
fallacy of regarding the A. gorilla as the type of a distinct genus, as has been
done by St. Hilaire, the tschego combining in a remarkable degree the charac-
teristics of both genera. The cranial crests, so much insisted on as generic
characters of the gorilla, are to be seen, though in a less degree of develop-
ment, in the tschego, while with the black face of the gorilla are associated
the large ears of the chimpanzee, and, in fact, all the characteristics of the
animal are intermediate between those of the two genera. The names tschego,
nsbego and ncheko appear, from the accounts of travellers, to have been
applied indiscriminately by the natives of equatorial Africa to all species of
anthropoidal apes.
To this species has been ascribed the faculty of constructing a nest or shel-
ter among the higher branches of trees, as a protection from the inclemency
of the weather during the rainy season. This, according to Du Chaillu,
(Equatorial Africa, p. 407) is covered with leaves, compactly laid together, at
such an angle as to readily shed the rain. The branohes an' fastened to the
trunk of the tree with vines ; the roof is generally from six to eight feet in
diameter. Surely this roof-constructing power must place its builder the
highest in the scale of the quadrumana.
The only figure of this animal in the flesh that I have met with, is to be
found in Du Chaillu's work. The so called young in the same plate, however,
resembles in a most remarkable degree a daguerreotype from life of a young A.
niger, which died some years ago in the Jardin des 1'lantes at Paris. It must
therefore be received "cum grano salis."
[March,
