36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
Measurements.
1013. Mounted skin, rj 1 . Abyssinia.
From tip of nose to eye ' 5*
' " ear 8-
" " occiput 13-4
" " tail 38-
Tail to end of vertebrae 19*
" " hairs 22-
Length of fore foot 20*
" hind feet 19'5
The specimen in the collection of the Academy above described was ob-
tained by me for the institution from Messrs. Verreaux freres, of Paris, in 1861.
It, with the type of the species, now in the magnificent collection of the Jardin
des Plantes, was brought by Mr. Schimper from Central Abyssinia about the
year 1855. Tbese two specimens are, as far as I am aware, the only ones
known to naturalists. Both are full-grown males.
M. Schimper states that the animals of this species are gregarious in their
habits, he having met with them in troops of from one to two thousand indi-
viduals. They hunt their prey, which consists mainly of the small rumi-
nants, in a manner similar to that of a pack of hounds ; following the quarry
until it is exhausted by fatigue, and then capturing and devouring it. Similar
habits have been ascribed by travellers to the C. porcarius. It is also stated
that the lion and leopard are unknown in the region inhabited by this baboon.
A glance at the specimen under consideration would convince the observer
that it is of a most ferocious disposition ; the large canines and heavy lower
jaw would be useless to an animal of quiet and peaceful habits, and, in fact,
M. Schimper also informs us that it wages a continual war against the
Dscliellada (Theropiihecus gelada),* which inhabits the same locality.
The only baboon with which this species can be confounded is the C. por-
carius, the form, size and habits of the two species being somewhat similar;
but they can readily be distinguished by their coloration, the porcarius being
much darker.
I have not been able to compare the skulls of the two species, but from an
examination of the only specimens known, both being mounted skins, it
would appear that the occipito- mental diameter of the skull is proportionately
much greater in this species than in the porcarius.
Mijcetes palliatus Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1848, p. 138, fig. vi.
Under this name Dr. Gray has figured and described a monkey from South
America, which presented most certainly all the characters required for the
formation of a new species, though the specimens were young ; still the long
hair of the back and the coloration were very different from any of the known
South American quadrumana. Having received four specimens from the
Smithsonian Institution which had been collected by the Atrato Expedition, I
accepted the species in my Monograph of the Prehensile-tailed Quadrumana
(Proc. A. N. S. 1862, p. 519). I have since had an opportunity of examin-
ing other specimens from New Grenada, and have discovered, to my surprise,
that it is merely the young of the Aluata nii/er. When very young the animal
is of a pale straw color, passing through all the intermediate shades of colora-
tion in its pelage during its youth, and in adult age becoming entirely of an
intense black color. The coloration of the palliatus is that of the period of
the commencement of the second dentition.
Macacus fl'h, sp. nov., vide plate.
General color reddish-brown, dashed with black, the hairs of the body and
external surface of limbs being black throughout the basal two-thirds of their
* A fine Hiiite of specimens, male, female and young of the T. gi-lida have been obtained from
11. Verreaux, and are now in the Museum of the Academy.
[March,
