40 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP
lar to that near Vincenttown, in which the cranium of the Thoracosaurus
neocaesariensis was discovered, being a coarse granular limestone in
many places, with numerous black rounded grains of perhaps phosphate of
iron or hornblende. It is abundantly penetrated by Teredo tibialis Mort.,
Contains Gryphaea vomer abundantly, and has afforded the only specimen
of Aturia from the eastern cretaceous beds, which I have called A. p a u c i f e x.*
The bed is but a few inches thick, and is frequently interrupted, and is over
and underlaid by the green sand of Cook's middle bed.
The physiognomy of this large turtle, in the obliquely expanded ' zygomata
and short muzzle, is like the Pleurodire genera Podocnemis Wagl. among re-
cent Chelonia, and Bothremys Leidy, of the same age, among extinct forms. Its
completely overarched temporal fossae add to the impression of its affinity to the
former genus, but on inspection of the vomer, it is found to be, as in the true
Cheloniida?, largely developed on the palatal surface between the o. o. maxil-
laria, and to extend to a posteriorly situated nareal opening. Though this
element is unossified in the Chelonioid types of Pleurodira, Peltocephalus and
Podocnemis, it is well developed in the family Chelydida? (Agassiz), and the
peculiarity of the cretaceous species might still exist in this sub-order. As it
is a matter of much interest to determine the precedence in time of the two
sub-orders of Chelonians, I have taken pains to remove the matrix from the
orbital and nasal cavities, so as to determine the structure of the prefrontal
bone. As I have elsewhere pointed out, this sends downward a column to the
vomer, either vertically or directed obliquely inwards, in all the Cryptodira,
while in the Pleurodira the column is wanting.
It might be reasonably anticipated that, in the period of the Cretaceous, the
less typical sub-order now characteristic of the Southern Hemisphere would
abound, if not entirely prevail. Its genera occur in the different epochs of the
Jurassic period, and Prof. Agassiz suspects one, at least, of the Cretaceous
Chelonia* of Europe to be really Pleurodire. The species herein described,
however, I must refer to the true Cheloniida?, and consider it as an undescribed
genus, having marks of resemblance to the Trionychida; and Hydraspididae. It
differs from Chelonia in its large naso-palatal foramen, thus resembling Trio-
nyx, in the complete flooring of the nasal meatus by the vomer and palatines
as far back as the line of the inferior openings of the orbits, and by the shallow-
ness of the palate and slight developement of the alveolar margin.
The diagnosis will be as follows : that of Bothremys a Hydraspid, which has
furnished the only other cranium from the same formation, is introduced. It
also has the vomer osseous, extensively in contact with the maxillaries on the
palatine surface.
Bothremys Leidy. Posterior nares separating vomer from o. o. palatina ; pre-
maxillary margin concave, involute ; alveolar surface profoundly concave,
vomerine surface a sulcus. Nasal meatus floored in front.
Euclastes Cope. Maxillaries and palatines separated throughout by the pro-
longed vomer ; posterior nares opposite palatal front margin of orbits ; pre-
maxillary margin projecting, beak-like ; alveolar face little concave, vomer
forming a central ridge. Floor of nasal meatus perforate for hook of man-
dible.
While Bothremys had an inferior mouth and projecting muzzle, as in the
modern Hydraspides, the nostrils of the Euclastes were superior and behind
the short projecting beak. The orbits arc not, as in the Macrochelys of the
Mississippi, far anterior and reduced in size, but their centres are distant from
the end of the muzzle (measured axially) more than one-third the total length
of the cranium.
The descending portion of the prefrontal is very wide, and equal to the width
* Proc. Academy, 1866, p. 5.
[April,
