NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41
of the maxillary outside the lachyrmal foramen ; the latter is small. Inter-
nally the columns of the prefrontals converge below to nearly an acute angle,
and are directed forwards along the vomer. They restrict the nasal meatus
extensively, leaving its diameter less than that of the columns. On the muzzle
the prefrontals have but a short common suture, admitting the frontal far be-
tween them. The internal nostrils have a diameter each side the septum,
equal to that of the meatus between the prefrontals.
EUCLASTES PLATYOPS Cope.
Premaxillaries narrow, rounded in front, maxillary outline nearly straight to
below anterior rim of orbits, where the breadth of the muzzle is four inches,
length to end of muzzle only two. Plane from top of prefrontals to maxillary
margin straight, oblique. Maxillary margin with a gentle sigmoid flexure.
Squamosal much expanded below and behind orbits. Frontal region flat, pa-
rietal rising behind. Nasal meatus subquadrate, slightly narrowed below, its
palatal foramen with a free lateral osseous margin. Alveolar ridge divergent,
little projecting above the oblique surface ; the latter is most concave behind
on each side the vomer, and presents no ridges, and few nutritious foramina.
Line of common suture of o. o. maxillaria in front of vomer, in a sulcus. Pala-
tines cuneiform with everted margins posteriorly, latter most elevated on each
side the small choanal opening, which is bounded in front by the projecting pos-
terior knob of the vomer. The maxillaries are very massive, and underlie more
than two-thirds the area of the orbits ; they receive a very extensive descend-
ing portion of the prefrontals, their union extending so far towards the median
line as to leave but a narrow nasal meatus. This offers a powerful resistant
face to the motion of the mandible. The posterior, orbital margin is -lb inch
in thickness, and is at right angles to its alveolar margin. Pterygoids almost
entirely broken away. The following measurements will furnish the best data
for a comprehension of the form in detail :
In. Lin.
Total length cranium 11
Breadth behind orbits 8 6
" between posterior margins orbits 5 2-5
Least interorbital width i 2 2*5
Width of nasal meatus 1 2-5
Depth premaxillaries 1 1
" maxillary at middle orbit 1 3-5
" squamosal at zygomatic arch 2 2
Length naso-prefrontals 2 3
" " common suture 6-2
" common suture frontals 2 4
" from anterior margin orbit to nasal meatus 11
" from premaxillary margin to end vomer 3 9
Width posterior nares together 1 1*5
" palatine bone opposite end of vomer 9
" vomer near anterior extremity 7
Greatest diameter of orbit 2 6
Least " " 2
The broad, regular alveolar surfaces have no doubt supported a massive
corneous table, in some degree like that of Platypeltis f erox, and with little
or no external cutting margin. This arrangement, as well as the compactness
of structure, is appropriate to a nutrition dependent on crushing more or less
hard bodies, as molluscs. That the Ostreae, Terebratulae, etc., of the sea coasts
or estuaries in which it lived formed much of its food, is therefore quite pro-
bable.
Estimating the proportions to have been similar to those of Hydraspis
maximiliani, the dimensions of the Euclastes platyops were
1867.]
