42
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Ft.
Length from end muzzle to end tail G
" of carapace 4
Width of plastron at middle 3
In.
Note on Dioicceus forms of VITIS VINIFERA, L.
BY THOMAS MEEHAN.
The different species of Vitis are so closely allied that the systematist is often
puzzled to find distinguishing characters, and hence liable to give too much
importance to points really of little value.
De Candolle, in his Prodromus, divides Vitis into two sections, according to
the inflorescence, one, natives of this country, with imperfect flower (Dioiav
aut polygamic, Americans) ; the other, perfect and Old-world forms (Hermaphro-
ditic, in orbe veteri indigenx), but as Vitis is not of a true declinous type, but
of that class which suppresses or develops its sexual organs according to cir-
cumstances, such a division is at best of doubtful value.
Vitis vinifera, the great type of Asiatic forms, has not probably been observed
closely in a natural state : and under cultivation, in the hands of cultivators
who value the vine for its fruit only, barren plants would not likely be pre-
served. Yet pistillate or female plants do not seem uncommon, for De Can-
dolle says (vol. i. p. 633,) " Seminibus numero variis imo interdum omnibus
abortivis," these seedless grapes being most likely the product of unimpreg-
nated ovaries.
That male plants do exist is, however, proved by a specimen, in the Acade-
my's Herbarium, of Vitis vinifera musculo, gathered near Naples by Teuore.
In the endeavor to distinguish forms of Vitis vinifera from American species,
its hermaphrodite character is still often insisted on; but with the demonstra-
tion of the existence certainly of male flowers, and the probable existence of
female ones, this distinction becomes too uncertain to be of much value.
Descriptions of new species of Texan MYEIAPODA.
BY DR. HORATIO 0. WOOD, JR.
Genus CERMATIA.
C. LlNCECI.
C. dilute brunnea, linea mediana saturate viride et alteris lateralibus inter-
dum obsoletis ornata ; stomatis dorsalibus singula maculis duis laete rubris
marginata.
This handsome species is of a brownish color, with the dark green median
stripe often involving nearly the whole of the posterior portion of the dorsum.
The lateral stripes appear to be sometimes wanting. The head is marked much
as in C. forceps ; in the dried specimen it is of a nearly uniform reddish ferru-
ginous color. The scuta are roughened witli rather distant small spines ; their
margins are thin, elevated, without conspicuous spines. The antenna* arc of
the same color as the head, as indeed are all of its appendages. The spots
bordering the dorsal stomata are somewhat kidney-shaped, and of a scarlet
lake color.
The under surface of the body, the coxa) and femora, are of a light brown
color. The tibia 1 and tarsi are of a dark greenish tint. The metatarsi are of
nearly the same tint as the head ; the first article is about equal to the next
five in length. The sterna are rather deeply impressed with a median longi-
tudinal line. The body of the largest specimen in my possession is about seven
lines in length.
The foregoing description is taken chiefly from dried specimens, in which the
coloration, I presume, does not differ materially from that of life.
[April,
