NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 43
Dr. Lincecum states, in his letter accompanying the specimens, that their
favorite haunts are under stones, in hollow logs, and especially about unused
fire-places. He - also says that they are not half the size of C. forceps. In dedi-
cating this species to Dr. Lincecum, I do it as a well merited token of respect
for his untiring zeal as a field naturalist, and for the liberality with which he
furnishes others with the results of his own industry. I am indebted to the
Doctor for all the species described in this paper.
Genus POLYDESMUS.
P. IMPURUS.
P. dilute brunneus fusco variatus ; scutis rubro marginatis ; scuto anale tri-
angulare, apice elongato truncato ; appendicibus masculis, robustis, spina
terminale baud pilosa.
The color is a light brown, finely mottled with dark brown, the dark color
predominating in the central portions of the scuta, the light on the lateral
parts. The scuta are ornamented with a narrow reddish flesh-colored line
both on their posterior and lateral margins, which is, however, more pro-
nounced on the lateral margins ; the first scutum has a similar line on its ante-
rior margin. The vertex has a strongly pronounced median line. The antennae
are filiform, somewhat pilose, and like the ventral surface and pubescent feet,
a light yellowish brown. The male appendages are robust, their blunt
distal end is covered with long hairs, and gives origin to two spines, neither of
w r hich are hairy ; the larger of these is regularly curved, except at its extreme
point, where it is abruptly bent ; the other is slender, curved, and acute. The
total length of the body and head is about an inch.
This species is closely allied to P. hispidipes, differing from it, however, in
coloring and in the form of the genital appendages. I have not examined any
females. Dr. Lincecum informs me that it is rare in Texas, especially in dry
seasons, and is found chiefly under old cow dung. Its favorite haunts suggested
its name, although it is one of our handsomest species.
Genus IULUS.
I. C^ISIUS.
I. cpesius, brunneo annulatus ; antennis filiformibus, modicis, pilosis ; capitis
vertice subnigra, superficie antica dilute brunnea, margine antico modice
emarginato ; scutorum lateribus canaliculars ; mucrone modice magno, recto,
robusto ; segmentis 56, baud pilosis.
The color of this species is a sort of bluish gray, more or less involved in
the brown rings. The antennas are slender, and not at all clavate. The sides
are chased with moderately close channels, which on the anterior scuta are
strongly pronounced, but on the posterior are somewhat obsolete. The last
scutum is prolonged into a somewhat blunt mucro, at least the latter is
quite obtuse in the only specimen which I have seen. The male genital ap-
pendages are composed, as in the allied species, of two parts. The chief of
these gives origin on the outer part on each side to a process, which is bifur-
cated almost to its base ; the arms which thus originate are separated by
a narrow fissure, one of them is thin, broad, and distally narrowed to a point ;
it is so placed as to present its broad aspect somewhat obliquely towards the
flank of the animal. The other is shorter, clavate, distally coarsely profusely
pilose, and set as it were at an angle to the first, so as to face obliquely back-
wards. The inner portion of the male appendages consists on each side of two
slender, subcylindrical, smooth processes, which are united at their bases ; the
shortest of them is nearly straight, the longer somewhat bent. The total
length of my specimen is nearly two inches.
I. DIVERSIFRONS.
I. saturate brunneus, linea nigra mediana et seriebus lateralibus maculae ni-
gra? ornatus ; capitis vertice subnigra, superficie antica cinerea, margine antico
distincte emarginato ; mucrone modice magno, recto ; segmentis 52.
1867.]
