44 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP
The antenna} of this species are filiform and pubescent. The male genital
appendages are composed on each side of two parts, the outer of which is
broad, thin, and very irregular, ending in two processes, of which the outer is
short, very strongly expanded distally and pilose, and often of a black color;
the inner is longer and more irregular, narrowing from the base, distally it is
bent nearly at right angles to itself, ending in cylindrical points. The inner
of the two parts is composed of a single irregular, thin process, which has at
first somewhat of the swan-neck curve, and near its end is bent sharply at
right angles to itself; it gives origin to two sharp spines, one arising from the
angle and the other from the shaft, so as to be, as it were, shielded by the bent
portion. The female appendages are similar to those of /. impressus, differing,
however, in the shape of the lower plates on each side, which give more the
appearance of a volute shell than of a bivalve. The total length of the head
and body is about two inches.
This is a species of which I received a single specimen in a large collection
from South Illinois, and mentioned under /. impressus in my monograph.
It appears to be rare in the Western States, but very plenty in Texas.
On two New Minerals from Chester Co., Penn.
BY ISAAC LEA.
On a visit last summer to the well known Corundum locality near Unionville,
Chester Co., my attention was attracted to an adhering fibrous mass, on the side
of a large piece of Corundum on the farm of Mr. John Lesley, Jr. This was evi-
dently different from any mineral accompanying Corundum which I had ever
seen ; and the application of my chisel showed at once that it had no outward
characteristic of that exceedingly hard mineral. On the contrary, the edge of the
instrument easily penetrated it, but at the same time it was tough and adhered
so closely to the side of the mass of Corundum that it was with great difficulty
I got quite a large piece off without breaking it up. Subsequently I took my
friend Mr. Jefferis to the spot, and we obtained the remaining portion. On the
careful examination of other masses of Conmdum in possession of Mr. Lesley
we could find no more of it. We found, however, pieces of a soft mineral which
had a lamellar structure, and which I think will prove to be the same substance
when they shall both be analysed. Believing that these are varieties of the
same mineral, and that it has heretofore not been observed, I propose to call it
Lesleyile, after the proprietor of the farm where it was found.
On some of the masses of Corundumwc found very fine large lamellar crystals
of Emerylite, some of the cleavage lamina? of which were one to two inches long
and more than an inch broad. Some of these crystals exhibited well defined
hexagonal prismatic sides. I believe no such fine specimens of Emcrylite have
been found elsewhere. In a few cases there were beautifully decremented
crystals. In some of the cleavage plates may be observed irregular red spots,
which under the microscope are transparent and of a bright color, but they
present no regular crystalline form and are, no doubt, composed of one of the
oxides of iron. When thin laminae were subjected to the polaroscope the red
color was unusually brilliant.
Connected with these crystals of Emerylite and passing into ami through
them, are dark green hexagonal, translucent Tourmalines, in prisms often an
inch long, some of them being one-tenth of an inch thick. There is also much
black Tourmaline connected with the Corundum.
The most important and rarest mineral of this locality is, however, Diaspore
(Dihidrate of Alumina.) This I found in connexion with the large cleavage-
plates of Emerylite which surrounded the crystals of Diispore, imbedding them
in the mass. Some of the Diaspore was in lamellated masses of two to three
inches and often of adamantine brilliancy. Some of the crystals of Diaspore
are of a pure opaque white, while others are of a fawn color inclining to topaz
[April,
