NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45
color. Others again are greenish and splendent. The prisms are hexagonal
with four terminal planes, somewhat like the figure in Dana's Mineralogy. The
largest I found is imperfect and measures in length an inch, and in breadth
three-fourths of an inch. The finest and most perfect one is eleven-twentieths
of an inch long and five-twentieths thick, being well terminated at both ends
with four planes. Two small ones, about three-tenths of an inch long, are ter-
minated also at both ends with four planes. These as well as some other
crystals present very closely the color and appearance of crystals of Topaz. One
of the crystals of Diaspore had a crystal of transparent green Tourmaline pass-
ing through the middle of the prism and the whole was enveloped by lamellar
crystals of pearly Emerylite, showing that the Tourmaline was first crystallized,
then the Diaspore and lastly the Emerylite. Mr. Jefferis also obtained some
fine specimens.
Another species of mineral, which I believe heretofore unnoticed, belongs to
the Mica Family. It is found only imbedded in the masses of Lesleyite. It has
a gray metallic color resembling Zinc. It is translucent only in thin cleavage
lamina?. I propose to call this Pattersonile, after Mr. Johnson Patterson, the
owner of the adjoining farm, and where the large masses of Corundum were
first found, one of which weighed four thousand pounds. Mr. Patterson has
always most liberally promoted the objects of Mineralogists who have visited
him in search of minerals, and it is due to Mr. Lesley to say the same of him.
Lesleyite. Fibrous or lamellar, sometimes inclining to massive. Color
whitish passing into reddish. Hardness about three. Streak white. Before
the blowpipe parts with its water and becomes opaque white. Does not fuse
with borax. Does not dissolve in muriatic acid. Under the microscope it pre-
sents no observable characteristics. Its gravity is greater than that of quartz.
There is a disposition in the crystalline fibrous structure to diverge from a
central point to be stellate, and in one crystal before me the radiating fibres
are nearly four inches long.
Pattersonite. Basal cleavage imperfect, rarely if ever presenting an hexago-
nal prism, but disposed to present triangular plates, which joining make a sub-
tetrahedral mass. The laminae are not flexible and but slightly translucent.
The color is metallic, bluish gray, resembling Zinc. The streak is grayish.
Before the blowpipe parts with its water, but does not exfoliate like Jefferisite,
nor does it intumesce like Cryophyllite and Lepidomelane, both of which fuse
easily. With borax melts into a black bead. Does not dissolve in muriatic
acid. Hardness about two. Under the microscope, with a power of one hun-
dred diameters, many imperfect black plates may be observed, some of which
are hexagonal, and they are probably one of the oxides of iron, Gothitef
This mineral may easily be distinguished from Muscovite by its crystalline
form, by its color and by its opacity. From Clinochlore by its lighter color, its
form of crystals, its transparency and its want of elasticity of laminae. From
Cryophyllite by its lighter color and its want of easy fusibility. From Lepido-
melane by its lighter color, its want of easy fusibility, its crystalline form, &c.
A third study of the ICTERID-ZE.
BY JOHN CASSIN.
3. Sub-family Icterinje.
Having for examination one of the most extensive collections of the birds of
this group ever got together, and which includes a large number of specimens
in young and immature plumage, as well as adults, with the sexes carefully
marked, I have given short descriptions of all the species, and the various
plumages of females and young, so far as they can be clearly determined. Of
such species as I have not specimens, but of which I have no reason to doubt
the validity, I have copied the original descriptions.
1867.]
