46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
This large and comprehensive series is composed essentially of the collection
of the Philadelphia Academy, the fine and in fact extraordinary collection of
the Smithsonian Institution, placed at my disposal with the usual generosity
and true scientific spirit of that great Institution by Professor Joseph Henry,
its accomplished Secretary, and the fine collection of my friend, that dis-
tinguished ornithologist, Mr. George N. Lawrence, of New York. The collec-
tion of the Philadelphia Academy contains nearly all the species mentioned in
this memoir, mainly derived from the Massena collection, but the labels indi-
cating locality are not always sufficiently explicit, in which respect, however,
those of the Smithsonian Institution and of Mr. Lawrence are generally entirely
authentic and satisfactory.
I. Genus ICTERUS, Brisson.
Genus Icterus, Briss. Orn., ii. p. 85 (1760),
1. Icterus.
1. Icterus vulgaris, Daudin.
Icterus vulgaris, Daud. Traite d'Orn. ii. p. 340 (1800).
Oriolus Icterus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 161 (1766).
Coracias Nanthornus, Scop., Ann. Hist. Nat. i. p. 39 (1768); not C. A'an-
thornus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 108 (1758).
Aud. B. of Am., oct. ed., vii. pi. 499. Buff. PI. Enl. 532. Catesby Car.
App. pi. 5. .
Large; plumage of the throat and neck in front elongated, linear and pointed; hill
nearly straight or slightly curved. A naked space behind the eye. Wing rather long,
third ami fourth quills longest ; tail rather long, feet rohust. Adult p. Head black ; back,
wings and tail black ; shoulders yellow, greater coverts white, and edges of shorter quills
white, formings longitudinal hand of white on the wing. Neck behind, rump, and entire
under parts usually rich orange- yellow, frequently paler yellow, and inclining to lemon or
sulphur yellow. Hill dark bluish-black, base of under mandible light blue, frequently
nearly white ; legs bluish-brown. Total length about 9J4 to 10 inches ; wing 4}^ to 6, tail 4
to l> j inches. Younger. Like the adult, hut with the Mack plumage tinged with hrown.
Quilt- dark brown, under parts dull gamboge-yellow. Total length about a inches.
Bah. Northern South America, Venezuela, Guiana, Bio Negro, northern Brazil,
Jamaica? southern United States? Spec, in Mub. Acad.. Philada., and Mus. Smiths.,
Washington.
Easily recognized by its lengthened beard-like feathers on the throat and
neck, its large size, and wide stripe of white through the wing longitudinally
from the yellow of the shoulder to the end of the secondary quills. The next
species has, however, all these characters, and is probably not distinct. I have
only seen this species from Northern South America, though one specimen in
the Smiths. Mus. is undoubtedly from Jamaica; but this bird is so common in
cages that almost any locality is possible !
2. Icterus longirostris, (Vieillot).
Agelaius longirostris, Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 547 (1819).
Icterus longirostris, (Vieill.) Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 435.
//at. Northern South America ; " Carthagena, New Grenada" (Vcrrcaux). Spec, in Mus.
A.Cad. Philada., and MUS. Smiths. Washington.
This species, if such it is, may be distinguished from the preceding by its
more slender and rather longer bill, and the specimens that I have seen are
a pale lemon-yellow, instead of the usual orange-yellow of/, vulgaris; but it
has tin- same description of lengthened ami linear leathers on the neck in
front, and the longitudinal band of white on the wing. In this bird the black
of the head perhaps extends downwards on the neck further than in the pre-
ceding, but the general distribution of colors is very nearly the same. The
character indicated by Bonaparte as above, " ted ctrvice nigra," I fail to recog-
nize. It is a apecies id' but very imperfect respectability.
One specimen is the Smithsonian .Mus.. labelled as this bird in the hand-
writing of thai excellent ornithologist, Jules Verreaux, is from Carthagena,
New Grenada; others, in the Academy Mus., are without labels indicating
[April,
