NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49
Adult 9 ? Smaller; total length 8 inches ; entire upper parts olive-green, with obscure
darker shades on the back; under parts greenish-yellow. Throat block, wings dark
brown, coverts and quills edged with white. Tail yellowish olive-green, obscurely tipped
with ashy white.
Hab. Tres Marias Islands, western coast of Mexico. Discovered by Col. A. J. Grayson,
of Mazatlan, Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington.
Single specimens only, labelled as male and female, are in the Smiths. Mus.
This fine species is nearly as large as the well known /. gularis of Mexico and
Nicaragua, which, however, it does not resemble, nor does it resemble inti-
mately any other species. It bears a general resemblance only to I. pustulates,
but is much larger, and has the back nearly uniform with other upper parts.
a few small black spots only being apparent.
This handsome bird is gratefully dedicated to its discoverer, Col. A.J.Grayson,
a gentleman whose indefatigable exertions have greatly elucidated the zoology
of Western Mexico, and whose isolated position only prevents him from attain-
ing high reputation as a naturalist. As yet, Col. Grayson has only found
this bird in the Tres Marias Islands, in the Pacific Ocean, nearly west of San
Bias, and about one hundred miles southwest of Mazatlan, Mexico.
8. Icterus Sclateri, nobis.
" Icterus mentalis, Less.," Sclat. Cat. Am. Birds, p. 134.
Resembling I. pustulatus, but rather larger, and with the back black and less white on
the wings. Plain and rather pale orange-yellow (not reddish-yellow, as in I. pnstidatus).
Also somewhat resembles T. gularis, but much smaller.
Adult (J . Head, rump and entire under parts plain but rich orange-yellow ; throat, Ions,
back, wings and tail black. The plumage of the back white at base, subterminally yellow,
and tipped with black ; the yellow appearing on the edges of the feathers. Scapulars
white and yellow, and widely tipped with black. Shoulders yellow, the longest smaller
coverts tipped with white, which forms a diagonal narrowband; greater coverts black,
narrowly tipped with white on their outer webs; quills edged with white, narrow on the
primaries, wide on the shorter tertiaries ; a large spot of white on the wing at the base of
the primaries. Tail black, yellow at base, ami narrowly tipped with grayish-white; bill
bluish, lighter at the base of the under mandible ; legs bluish-gray. Total" length about 8
inches ; wing -t 1 ^, tail i% inches.
Younger tf or ? ? Entire plumage of the head and body plain dull lemon-yellow, tinged
with green on the body above, and with numerous large spots of brownish-black on the
back. Throat black, wings dull brown, greater coverts and quills edged with grayish-
white, tail olive-green. Total length 1% inches ; wing 3%, tail 3% inches. The specimen
now described is labelled as a female by the collector.
Huh. Nicaragua; "San Juan;" " Pres Grenada;" Guatemala; " San Geronimio." Spec,
in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Washington.
This is the species alluded to by Dr. Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, p. 134, and
perhaps by Dr. Cabanis, Mus. Hein. i. p. 185, as Icterus mentalis, Lesson, which
it is not, however, nor very nearly resembling it, either by that name or its
other name, which is Icterus gularis, Wagler. It is a very handsome small spe-
cies, common in collections from Nicaragua and Guatemala, of which numer-
ous specimens are in the Acad. Mus., certainly from the vicinity of San Juan,
and in the Smiths. Mus. from various localities in both countries. Specimens
in Smiths. Mus., from Mr. Salvin's collections in Guatemala, are labelled ' Ic-
terus mentalis " by him, and this is therefore undoubtedly the bird alluded to
by him and Dr. Sclater under that name as above, and elsewhere.
3. A?idriopsar.
9. Icterus gularis (Wagler).
Psarocolius gularis, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. 754.
Icterus mentalis, Less. Cent. Zool. p. Ill (1830).
"Cacicus mentalis* Wagler, Isis," Less., as above.
Des Murs, Icon. Orn. pi. 9. Lesson, Cent. Zool. pi. 41. Gervais, Atl. Zool.
Orn. pi. 36.
Large; bill thick, strong, rather short, and abruptly taperim; to a sharp point- wing
moderate, third and fourth quills usually longest and nearly equal; tail mod. rate'; leas
rather strong; claws strong, curved.
Adult J. Back lustrous black. Head, rump, and entire under parts rich orange-yellow
Lores and throat black, united by a narrow band at the base of the under mandible Back
wings and tail black, the last yellow at base; shoulders yellow, greater coverts bla-k'
18G7] 4
