NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51
Resembles the preceding (/. Xanthomas), but much larger, and with the
yellow of the plumage more clear and darker yellow, inclining to orange, and
less tinged with green on the upper parts of the body. Specimens in the
Smiths. Mus. are from Mexico. This is undoubtedly the bird alluded to by the
Prince Bonaparte as X. mexicanus and X. nigrogularis in Compt. Rend., as above
cited, and I regard it also as /. auratus, Bonap. Consp. Av. as above, which
species is very probably alluded to in Compt. Rend. (1853, p. 835) as in the
Museum at Brussels.
This bird resembles, in general characters, the immediately preceding, but is
a distinct species. The most available characters for recognition are its larger
size aud clearer yellow color.
12. Icterus mesomelas (Wagler).
Psarocolius mesomelas, Wagl. Isis, 1829, -p. 755.
Icterus atrigularis, Less. Cent. Zool. p. I'd (1830).
Oriolus musicus, Cabot, Jour. Nat. Hist. Soc. Boston, iv. p. 465 (1844).
Less. Cent, Zool. pi. 22. Gerv. Atl. Zool. Orn. pi. 35.
Lemon-yellow, outer feathers of the tail yellow, shorter quills edged with pale yellowish-
white, forming a conspicuous longitudinal stripe on the wing. Bill thick, slightly curved,
wing moderate, third and fourth quills longest; tail long, graduated.
Adult (J . Back, wings and middle feathers of the tail Clack. Lores and throat, and a
narrow frontal band, black. All other parts lemon or chrome-yellow, rather darker on the
head. Shoulders yellow, outer feathers of the tail pale yellow, under wing coverts yellow.
Shorter quills conspicuously edged with yellowish-white; primaries narrowly edged on
their terminal half with grayish-white. Bill and feet bluish-black, the former light blue at
base of under mandible. Total length about 9 inches ; wing 3J4 to 3%, tail i 1 4 to i}4 inches.
Female like the male, but rather smaller. Total length about 8% inches. Yellow plu-
mage, slightly tinged with greenish on the rump ami abdomen.
Younger. Black plumage of the back edged with yellowish-green ; yellow plumage
strongly tinged with dull green.
Hab. Mexico; northern and central Guatemala; Yucatan. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada.,
and Mus. Smiths. Inst. Washington.
Much resembles the species next succeeding (I. Salvinii), but is smaller, and
can easily be distinguished by the longitudinal line on the wing, formed by the
edgings of the shorter quills. Numerous specimens are in the Smiths. Mus.
from Cordova and Orizaba, Mexico, and from central and northern Guatemala.
Specimens in the Acad. Mus. are labelled " Mexico." This species is sufficiently
well given in the plates above cited for recognition, but the characteristic light
yellow edgings of the shorter quills, which form a conspicuous narrow band,
are not fully shown. This fine species seems to be abundant in Mexico, and
extends its range into Yucatan and the northern and central districts of Guate-
mala, south of which it is replaced by the next succeeding larger, species (/.
Salvinii).
13. Ictbrus Salvinii, nobis.
Much resembling the preceding, but larger, and with the quills entirely black (no trace
of the yellowish-white edgings of the shorter quills, which are conspicuous in the prece-
ding species). Bill strong, somewhat curved; wing rather long, third, fourth and fifth
quills longest and nearly equal; tail rather long, graduated feathers of the tail rather nar-
row ; feet strong.
Adult J. Head, rump, and entire under parts of the body fine lemon or chrome-yellow,
shoulders and middle coverts of the wing yellow. Wide "space on the lores and throat
black. Back, scapulars, wings, and middle feathers of the tail deep black, primaries very
faintly edged with grayish-white in their terminal half (all other quills clear lustrous
black). Bill dark bluish or horn-color; feet bluish; under, wing coverts yellow. Total
length about 0% to Id inches ; wing 4 to 4!4, tail i}4 to 4% inches.
Younger. Like the adult, but with the black feathers of the back edged with dull green;
quills dark brown, edged with dull greenish-white ; yellow of the upper parts tinged with
green. Total length about \)}4 inches.
Hab. Costa Rica; "Turrialba;" "San Carlos" (Mr. .1. Carmiol); Nicaragua : "Greytown"
(Mr. Holland); New Grenada; " Atrato River" (Capt. >.'. Michler); " Bogota" (Mr. Lawrence i;
Venezuela. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., in Mus. Smiths. Inst Washington, and in coll.
Mr. Lawrence, New York.
Very similar to the immediately preceding (7. mesomelas), but is larger, and
has the wing entirely black or very narrowly edged on the primaries only, and
inhabits more southern regions of Central America and northern South
1867.]
