52 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE ACADEMY OF
America. Numerous specimens iu the Mus. Smiths. Inst, are from Greytown,
Nicaragua, ami various localities in Costa Rica. .Specimens in Acad. Mus. are
from Bogota, New Grenada, and from Venezuela, and are undoubtedly correct
in locality.
This fine species is dedicated to Osbert Salvin, Esq., of London, a most
accomplished ornithologist, and most liberal patron of the natural sciences.
14. Icterus Grace-Ann^e, nobis.
In a large and highly interesting collection made by the Hon. John Randolph
Clay, while United States .Minister to Peru, and now in the possession of the
Philadelphia Academy, there is one specimen of a small species of this group
which I cannot identify from any figure or description. It is a small thick-
billed species, about the size of I. Xanlhornus, but with colors much resembling
those of /. mesomelas ; easily distinguished, though, from the latter, by its
smaller size, and by having the tail entirely black and a very conspicuous,
longitudinal spot of white in the middle third of its wing. It is very probably
the bird alluded to by the Prince Bonaparte under the head of Xantliornus
mesomelas, Consp. Av. i. p. 434, " var. ex Peru, Minor. An species?" It is a
quite distinct and strongly marked species.
Adult. About the size of/. Xantliornus, but does not resemble it in colors ; smaller than
i". mesomelas, but similar to that species in general color-; only, and easily distinguished in
having a conspicuous longitudinal spot of white in the middle of the wing, and tin- tail en-
tirely black. Head and neck above, rump and entire under parts (except the throat) lemon
yellow; throat, lores, wings, tail, and a wide transverse band across the back, black.
Shoulders and under wing coverts yellow, the greater wing coverts white, which color is
partially concealed by the yellow of the shoulders. Outer edges of the shorter quills, in
their middle third, white, forming a longitudinal spot about the middle of the wing. In
the present specimen the outer feathers of the tail are edged and narrowly tipped with
ashy, nearly white at the ends, and the next two feathers of the tail are also narrowly tipped
witli ashy-white. Bill and feet bluish-black, paler at the base of the under mandible.
Total length 7% inches; wing 3%, tail 3% inches.
Hab. Western South America; Peru? Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada.
The fine collection of Mr. Clay, though mainly composed of birds of Peru,
contained also some species of Ecuador and Bolivia, or hitherto only known as
from those countries. The locality of the present species cannot therefore be
given positively, but it is undoubtedly from western South America.
This handsome little bird I have named in honor of my highly esteemed
friend, Miss Grace Anna Lewis, of this city: accomplished as a teacher of
Natural History, conscientious in all social duties and relations, faithful in her
friendships.
15. Icterus Giuaudii, Cassin.
Icterus Giraudii, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philada. 1847, p. 333.
Xanthornus chrysater, Less. Oeuv. Buff. Supp. vii. p. 332 (1847)?
Icterus melanopterus, Hartl. Rev. Zool. 1849, p. 275.
Jour. Acad. Philada. i. pi. 17 (quarto).
Resembling the three last preceding in colors, but with the back clear yellow, uniform
with the other upper parts (not black, as in /. mesome&at, I. Salrinii, and I. G-raca-Annx). Bill
nearly straight, conic, thick at base, and gradually pointed; wing rather long, third and
fourth quills longest ; tail moderate, graduated; icet moderate.
Adult '. Bead and entire body above and below rich chrome or sulphur-yellow, with a
tinge of orange on the under parts; shoulders and inferior coverts of the wing yellow.
Front, lores, and wide spa a tic throat and neck, enclosing the eyes, black; wings and
tail black. Scapulars yellow, tipped with black (wings clear lustrous black, with paler
edgings only to wan Is the ends of the primaries; tail clear black, back yellow, not black, as
In the preceding three species). Hill dark bluish, or horn-color; legs bluish-gray. Total
length about 8J? inches; wing 4, tail 4J inches.
Younger. Enure upper parts tinged \\ ith dull greenish, under parts with dull orange or
gamboge; wings brownish-black, quills narrowly edged with dull yellowish-green ; tail
dark brown; shoulders black or dark brown.
Young. Entire plumage dull greenish-yellow, black appearing on the throat, wines and
tail dark brow Q, outer feathers of the ta'il with their shafts white. Total length about l]/ 2
Inches.
Haft. Southern Central America and northern South America; Mexico? Spec, in Mus.
Lead. Philada., and Mus. smiths. Inst. Washington.
This very handsome species is another of those in which the plumage is
[April,
