NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53
mainly rich lemon, chrome, or sulphur-yellow, not orange, nor tinged with
red, as in many others of this group. A fine large species, with the wings and
tail clear shining black, the primaries only narrowly edged with grayish-white
on their terminal half.
Numerous specimens in Smiths. Mus. from Central Guatemala, and from the
Rio Atrato (Capt. Michler*s Expedition). Specimens in Acad. Mus. from Guate-
mala, Panama (Mr. J. G. Bell, collected by himself), and Bogota, New Grenada.
This bird is quite probably X. chrysater, Lesson, as above, which is described
as from Mexico, but from which country I have not seen it.
4. Ateleopsar.
16. Icterus melanocephalus (Wagler).
Psarocolius melanocephalus, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. 756.
Icterus graduacauda, Less. Rev. Zool. 1839, p. 105.
Cassin, B. of Cal. and Texas, pi. 21.
Head black, wings and tail black (wings clear black, the quills in the adult without any
edgings of white, and very narrow and obscure only in young plumage). Bill rather short,
nearly straight, eulmen somewhat flattened; wing moderate, third aud fourth quills long-
est; tail rather long, graduated; legs strong.
Adult cf . Head and neck black, body above and below sulphur-yellow, tinged with green
on the back, and frequently on the entire upper parts of the body. Wings and tail clear
black. Bill dark horn-color, base of under mandible blue, which is succeeded by a trian-
gular spot of yellowish-white ; legs dark brown. Total length 8 to S]/ 2 inches; wing 3% to
4, tail 4 inches.
Youngers Upper parts of body yellowish-green, quills narrowly edged with grayish-
white, bill blue at base Younger? Upper parts dark olive-green, wings and tail brownish-
black, shoulders green, quills narrowly edged with grayish-white, outer tail feathers dark
yellowish-green, bill blue at base. Total length about 8 inches.
Hdi. Southern Mexico; Jalapa (D'Oca); Mirador (Sartorius); Orizaba (Sumichrast).
Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths., Washington.
This species and the next (/. Audubonii) form a peculiar group of the genus
Icterus, if, indeed, they are not entitled to generic distinction. The structure
presents peculiarities in this group, the bill being flattened slightly on the eul-
men, wings and tail long, and the colors of the plumage are quite peculiar.
Specimens in the Smiths. Mus. are exclusively from Mexico. This bird is
smaller than the next succeeding, and appears to be quite distinct ; though in
plumage not quite mature, there are some light edgings of the shorter quills,
as here described. In this nearly adult plumage it is described hj Wagler, as
cited above : " remigibus extus stride griseo-marginatis." This plumage also is
described by me in " Birds of California and Texas," p. 139, though the more
fully adult is figured. In the next species the quills are edged with white in
all ages. The name melanocephalus is pre-occupied by Hahn, as below, under
/. Parisorum.
17. Icterus Audubonii, Giraud.
Icterus Audubonii, Gir. B. of Texas, p. 5 (1841).
Like the preceding, but larger, and with the shorter quills widely edged with white. Bill
nearly straight, eulmen flattened, third and fourth quills longest; tail rather loug, gradua-
ted ; legs strong.
Adult d . Head, wings and tail black, body above and below sulphur yellow, tinged with
green on the back more or less strongly, according to age or season. Quills, especially the
shorter tcrtiarics, edged externally with grayish-white; bill dark horn-color, base of under
mandible bluish ; legs dark brown.
Younger. 'Quills brownish-black, tail with the outer feathers dull green. Total length
(adult) about i\y 2 incites; wing 4, tail 4 to 4J4 inches.
Sab. Northern Mexico; Tamaulipas; Neuvo Leon (Gen. Couch); Texas (Mr. J. H.
Clark); New Mexico. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Washington.
Larger than the immediately preceding, but much resembling it, and with
the colors nearly the same. In this species the shorter quills are edged con-
spicuously with white at all ages, in which respect it differs from the prece-
ding, and it appears to inhabit exclusively Northern Mexico and the adjoining
districts of the United States.
1867.]
