NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55
Although having abundance of specimens before rue in the Acad. Mus. and
Smiths. Mus., I am not able to state the islands of the West Indies inhabited
by this species, nor have I seen any other than the adult plumage. One speci-
men only in the Smiths. Mus. is undoubtedly from the island of .Martinique,
but all others now before me are either labelled " West Indies " or " Antilles."
This is a quite peculiar, and, in adult plumage, an easily recognized species,
but is probably allied to the immediately succeeding (/*. rufigasler).
2. Pendulinus rufigaster, Vieillot.
Pendulinus rufigaster, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 321 (1816).
" Bananivorus rufigaster, Bp. ex Vieill.," Bonap. Comp. Rend. 1853, p. 834.
" Cette esp&ee, que je crois nouvelle, a le ventre et les parties posterieures d'un roux ar-
dent ; le rest du plumage noir, ainsi que le bee et les pieds; taille du carouge esclave (P.
dominicensis). Elle se trouve dans rAnierique meridionale." Vieillot, as above.
" Nigro ; eapite, collo, pectoreque castaneis; uropygio, corpore aubtus, tibiis, tectricibus-
que alarum minoribua et inferioribus, fulvis. Le Troupiale enfumt du Musee de Paris,
rapporte de la Guadaloupe par M. Moreau de Jonnes, nomine pur Vieillot, Pendulinus rufi-
gaster et reuni a. tort au spurius." Bonap. Compt. llend., as above.
Hub. Gaudeloupe. Spec, in Paris Museum.
These are the original descriptions of a bird given as distinct from P. banana
by Bonaparte, as above cited, but which I have not seen. It seems to be
nearly related to that species, but may be an inhabitant of different islands,
and, like others in this memoir, persistently presenting some clearly pe-
culiar characters. On the faith of the description by Bonaparte, I give it as
probably a species of respectability, and his indication of the locality is im-
portant. It is given doubtfully by that great naturalist in Consp. Av. (i. p. 432)
as synonymous with P. spurtus of North America, which I suppose is the tort
to which he alludes.
3. Pendulinus rufaxillus, Bonaparte.
Pendulinus rufaxillus, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 432 (1850).
" Ex Mexico. Nigerrimus; humeris cinnamomeo-castaneis ; teetricibus alarum mino-
ribus eitrino-castaneis ; eauda elongata ; rostro elongato, acutissimo." Bonap., as above .
This species I have not seen. It seems to resemble in colors of plumage, at
least, Agelaius pyrrhopterus, Vieill. (which is Hyphantes pyrrhopterus of this
memoir), but that species was apparently known to the Prince Bonaparte, as
he gave it a name (Pendulinus periporphyrus, Bonap. Consp. Av. 1. p. 432.)
2. Poliopsar.
4. Pendulinus Wagleri (Sclater).
Icterus Wagleri, Sclat. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1857, p. 7.
Psarocolius flavigaster, Wagl Isis, 1829, p. 756.
Pendulinus dominicensis, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 432 (nee Linn.)
Baird, B. of N. A. pi. 61, fig. 2. Rept. U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv., Birds,
pi. 19, fig. 2.
Larger ; head, neck and back black; shoulders, rump and abdomen orange- yellow;
wings ana tail blaek, upper and under tail coverts black. The black on the breast sepa-
rated from the yellow of under parts of the body by a narrow band of chestnut, frequently
obscure, but generally strongly marked. Under wing coverts yellow. Bill Long, Curved,
bluish-black, lighter at base of under mandible ; legs dark brown ; wing rather lung, third
ainl fourth quills longest ; tail long; legs rather short. Adult J. Total length about
inches ; wing.4J4. tail i% inches.
Young. Entire upper parts yellowish-green, inclining to clearer yellow on the head, ami
green on the back ; throat blaek; shies of neck and under .parts of body dull yellow ;
wings dark brown, coverts edged with dull white; shoulders greenish-yellow; tail with
the middle feathers brownish-black, outer feathers yellowish-green. Total length about
8 inches.
Younger. Entire upper parts of head and body dull olive-green; under parts dull-pale
greenish-yellow.
Hab. Mexico; Guatemala; State of Coahuila. northern Mexico (Gen. Couch); Mazatlan
(Col. Grayson) ; San Geronimo, Guatemala (Mr. 0. Salvia). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada.,
and Mus. Smiths. Washington.
The under tail coverts being black, is a character to be remembered in com-
1867.]
