NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59
restricted to the tibite and under tail coverts. The young of this species is
probably different entirely from that of P. dominicensis, and certainly from that
of P. hypomelas, and resembles the figure in PI. Enl. 559 in a greater degree
than that of any other species known to me.
The extensive and valuable collections made in Porto Rico by Mr. Robert
Swift and Mr. George Latimer, and presented by them to the Smithsonian
Institution, contain all plumages of this species, as above described.
13, Pendulinus hypomelas, Bonaparte.
Pendulinus hypomelas, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 433 (1850).
" Icterus hypomelas, Du Bus," Bonap. ut sup.
Icterus dominiceusis, et virescens, Vig. Zool. Jour. ii. p. 441 (1827).
Psarocolius melanopsis, Wagl. Isis, 1829, p. 759.
De Sagra's Cuba, Ois. pi. 19, bis. (young).
Like the preceding, but with the under tail coverts black (not yellow, as in the two pre-
ceding, P. dominicensis and P. portoricen sis), but frequently the shorter under tail coverts
' r ' are dull gamboge yellow, quite different from the yellow of the tibise. Yellow space on the
rump wide, as in P dominicensis. Bill rather shorter and thicker than in either of the pre-
ceding, curved; wing moderate, third quill slightly longest; tail rather long, graduated;
legs rather short.
Adult ^ . Shoulders, rump and tibiae yellow, shorter under coverts of the tail dull gam-
boge yellow, under wing coverts yellow. All other parts of the plumage black. Longer
upper coverts of the tail black, all the longer under tail coverts and frequently all the un-
der coverts of the tail black. Bill bluish black, lighter bluish at the base of the under
mandible ; legs bluish black. Total length about 8 to 8% inches, wing 3% to 3%, tail 3% to
3% inches.
Young. Throat black, body above and below yellowish olive green, shoulders and rump
greenish yellow, and in more advanced plumage, tibia? yellow. Under wing coverts yellow,
wings and tail brownish green. Adolescent. The black of the adult appearing on the back
and breast In young plumage this bird is Icterus virescens and Psarocolius melanopsis, as
above.
Bab. Cuba. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and in Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washington.
This is another of the black species with the rump or lower part of the back
yellow, and allied to the two immediately preceding, P. dominicensis and P.
portoricensis. It is not difficult to distinguish from either, by its black' under
tail coverts. Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus. are from the fine col-
lection made in Cuba by Mr. Charles Wright, who most carefully obtained
adults and young in all plumages.
14. Pendulinus leucopteryx ( Wagler).
Psarocolius leucopteryx, Wagl. Syst. Av. 16 (1827).
Icterus personatus, Temm. PI. Coll. ii. liv. 81 (not paged nor dated).
" Oriolus mexicauus, Linn." Leach Zool. Misc. i. p. 8.
Oriolus nidipendulus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 390 (1788)?
Leach Zool. Misc. i. pi. 2. Edwards' Birds, v. pi. 243. Sloan Jam. pi. 258,
fig. 3?
Middle and greater coverts of the wing white, forming a large space of that color (white)
in the first half of the wing; shoulders yellowish green, uniform with the plumage of the
upper parts of the body. Bill thick at base, somewhat curved ; wing rather long, third and
fourth quills longest; tail moderate or rather short; legs strong. Adult $ Entire upper
parts of head and body greenish yellow, lighter on the rump, under parts yellow, tinged
with green on the breast and sides. Front, lores and throat black (united and forming a
mask), wings and tail black. Middle and greater coverts of the wing white, shorter quills
widely edged with white. Under wing eovcrN pale yellow. Bill bluish black, pale blue at
base of the under mandible; legs bluish black. Total length 8 to 8}^ inches, wing 4J4, tail
3]/, inches.
Adult $. Like the male, but with the upper parts more strongly tinged with green, and
the white of the wing not so large; shoulders and scapulars frequently mixed with black.
Youug. Like the female, but with the tail olive green; coverts of the wings widely tipped
with white, all the quills narrowly edged with grayish white. Adolescent. Middle leath-
ers of the tail black, others green. Shorter quills black, edged with white, others dull
brown.
Hub. Jamaica. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washington.
This is a common enough, but quite peculiar species, preserving as it does
in adult plumage the general colors of the young of several others, and espe-
cially of the smaller /'. spurius of North America. Standing before me iu com-
1867.]
