60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
pany with the young of P. dominicmsis, J', hypomdat and P. spurius, I am al-
most inclined to regard it as illustrating arrested development.
This bird is exclusively from Jamaica, so far as my information extends, and
numerous specimens, now under examination, are in the very line collection of
the birds of that Island, presented to the .Smithsonian Institution by William
Thomas March, Esq., of Spanishtown, Jamaica. Numerous others in the
Smiths. Mus. are in another fine collection from Metcalfe Parish, Jamaica, col-
lected and presented by Professor George X. Allen.
In my opinion this bird is Oriohts mdipendulus, Gmclin, as above, founded
on descriptions of two supposed species in Sloane's Jamaica. "TheWatchy
Picket or Spanish Nightingale" and "Another sort of the Watchy Picket."'
(Nat. Hist. Jamaica, ii. pp. 299, 300).
4. Icterioidcs.
15. Pendulinus auricapillus (Cassin).
Icterus auricapillus, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philada., 1847, p. 332.
Jour. Acad. Philada. quarto, i. pi. 16, fig. 2.
Back, wings and tail Vilaek (no white marks in the wing). Bill moderate or rather short
thick .-it base, slightly curved; wing rather long, second and third quins longest; tail
lather long, graduated; legs moderate. Adult cj . Back, wings and tail clear Lustrous
black, without any white spots or marks whatever. Front, lores and throat black, united
and" forming a wide mask. Head, above, rump ami entire under parts golden yellow, paler
on the run i)i. Shoulders yellow, under wing coverts yellow, a few of the longer upper tail
coverts black. Bill bluish black, legs dark brown. Total length 7 to 7}6 inches, wing 3J
to $%, tail :>,' j to 3 :i - 4 ' inches. Younger. Entire head and under parts ofDOdy dull O]
yellow, black feathers appearing on the throat; quills and tail feathers dark brown, rump
greenish yellow.
Hab. Northern South America, New Grenada, Venezuela, Trinidad, Mexico? Spec, in
Mus. Acad., Philada., and .Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washington.
About the size of/*, chrysocephalus and. like that species, somewhat variable
in all its dimensions, a specimen from the Island of Trinidad being the largest
and another from Bogota, New Grenada, the smallest. A handsome and easily
recognized species, with clear black wings and tail, without a vestige of white
markings on either, and differing in that respect from the next succeeding, P.
cucullatus. Shoulders in the present species, yellow ; in P. cucidlattts, black.
Specimens in the Smiths. Mus. are from Bogota and Santa Martha. New Gre-
nada. Two specimens in the Massena collection are labelled as from Mi xico,
in the handwriting of Mr. Victor Massena. # Others in the Acad. Mus. are from
Trinidad and Venezuela.
16. Pendulinus cucullatus (Swainson).
Icterus cucullatus, Swains. Philos. Mag., 1827, p. 436.
Cassin, B. of Cal. and Texas, pi. 8.
Middle coverts of the wing white, forming a wide diagonal Viand across the wing, near
the shoulder. Bill rather long, curved, rather slender; wing moderate, third and fourth
quills longest; tail rather long, graduated; legs moderate. Adult '. Back, wings and tail
black, middle coverts of the wing white, shorter quills widely edged with white, primaries
narrowly edged with grayish white, Front, lores and throat Mack, united and forming a
Wide mask. Head above, rump and entire under parts rich golden or reddish yellow;
under wing coverts yellow. Bill bluish Mack, legs brownish. Total length about ~H inches ;
wing,:: 1 ,; tail, 3% to i inches. Younger f. Buck plumage of the back edged with yel-
l i green, tail narrowly tipped with white, yellow of the head tinged with dull g\
and specimens OCCUr in which the entire yellow (.arts of the plumage are dull greenish
yellow, much paler, and of a different shade of yellow from that of the fully-matured bird.
Female. Upper parts dull ashy olive green, tinged with yellow on the head, under pits
pale greenish yellow, dearer yellow on the middle of the abdomen and under tail coverts,
ashy on the Bides, wings ashy brown, coverts tipped with while, tail yellowish green.
length about 7 inches.
Iluli, Mexico ; Texas; Lower California. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philadelphia, and Mus.
Smiths. Inst., Washington.
About the size of the preceding P. aurieapilhu, and generally resembling it,
but easily distinguished by its conspicuous white marks on the wings, and the
shoulders being black. Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus.. from Cor-
dova and Mirador, and various localities in the States of Tamaulipas and Coa-
[ April,
