62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
and rather short tails. All are of entire symmetry and compactness of struc-
ture, ami the group represents, in my opinion, the perfection of the family
Iclerhhv. ami is therefore, I think, to be properly regarded as the typical genus.
My business, in the present series of memoirs, is, however, mainly with spe-
cies, and I have not ventured upon such arrangement.
1. Hyp hantes.
1. IIyphantes Baltimore (Linnneus).
(Mollis Baltimore, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 162 (1766).
Qriolus tricolor, Mull. Syst. Nat. Supp., p. 87 (177(5).
Catesby Carolina, i. pi. 48. Buff. PI. Enl. 506. Vieill. Gal. i. pi. 87. Wils.
Am. Orn. i. pi. 1, vi. pi. 53. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 12, oct. ed. iv. pi. 217.
Bill straight, pointed : wing with the first four primaries longest and nearly equal : tail
moderate. Adult. Fine reddish orange; head, back, wings and middle tail feathers
black Shoulders orange, greater coverts tipped with white, quills edged with white, tail
at Inse orange, middle feathers black in their terminal two-thirds, others with a medial
black, and largely tipped with orange. Bill bluish, legs bluish brown. Female. Like
the male, but with the black parts tinged with brown, and the orange parts paler, and
sometimes tinged with green; vounger, and frequently mated : the female has the bead
above and back vellouish or grayish olive, quills brown, tail olive green. Youug. Like
the young female, but with the quills blacker. Adolescent. Black appearing on the head
and throat, tail feathers partly black. Total length 1% to 8 inches; wing 3%, tad 3 to 3>4
inches
Hah. Eastern North America; Mexico; Central America. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada.
and Mus. Smiths., Washington.
Specimens of this well-known species in the Smiths. Mus. are from numerous
localities throughout the United States, east of the Rocky Mountains, from
Eastern Mexico, Guatemala and Costa Rica; many of them, in collections from
Mexico and Central America in very fine adult plumage. One of the most
beautiful and familiarly-known birds of the United States. This beautiful
little species varies in the shade and depth of its orange colors in both males
and females. Specimens in the Acad. Mus., from Jalapa, Mexico, are amongst
the finest in plumage that I have seen.
2. Hyphantes Bollockii (Swainsan).
Xanthornus Bullockii, Swains. Philos. Mag., 1827, p. 436.
Psarocolius auricollis, DeWeid, Reise Nord. Am. i. pi. 3(37 (1839).
Aud. B. of Am. pi. 388, oct. ed. iv. pi. 218.
Size of the preceding, front and wide superciliary stripe orange. Bill straight, pointed,
wins rather lone, second and third quills longest, tail moderate, rounded. Adult. Stripe
throUKh the eye, head above, back and throat, black. Wings brownish black, greater
coverts and quills widely edged with white, under wing everts orange yellow, trout
and sunereiliarv stripe, sides of neck and entire under parts of body fine orange yellow,
Tvderonthe abdomen. Lower part nf back and rump orange yellow, frequently tinged
with ereenish Tail, with the middle feathers brownish black in their terminal two-
thirds vellow at base; outer feathers orange yellow, tipped with brownish black. V -
lAuer parts yellowish olive ereen, darker and frequently mottled with brownish black on
theback. Total length about 7 to r% inches; wing 4, tail Scinches.
///,._ Western North America; Mexico. Spec, m Mus. Acad. Philada., and Mus. Smiths.,
Washington. _
Apparently a frequent species of all the temperate countries of North
America on the Pacific Ocean, and inhabiting also a very extensive central
,",.., ion including the Rocky Mountains. Well represented in the plate of
Audubon's folio edition, but indifferently in the octavo. Not ultimately
resembling any other species.
2 Hyi'HANtes Ahku.i.ei (Lesson).
Xanthornus Abeillei, Less. Rev. Zool., 1839, p. 101.
Oriolus Costototl, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 385 (1788)?
About the size ollthe preceding two species, and strictly of the same generic group.
Fntire QDPer part* of head and body black, ruder parts with the throat and tides bUtf.
!;" ... if, ,.,,;,, theeye.sides of the neck and middle of the under parts of the body
,,!', rellow Wings' black, greater coverts white, quills edged with white. Tail with
the middle feathers brownish black, other tail feathers yellow, tipped with brownish
[April,
