NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63
blank. Plumage of the rump and upper tail coverts einerous and greenish yellow at base,
and widely tipped with black. Under wing coverts yellow. Hill bluish brown, light blue
at base of under mandible, legs bluish brown. Bill straight, pointed, wing rather long,
third quill longest, tail moderate, rounded. Total length about 7]^ inches; wing 4, tail 3}
inches.
llab. Mexico. Spec, in Smiths. Mas., Washington.
Of this curious anil little-known bird, I have seen only a single specimen,
which was obtained from Messrs. Verreanx, of Paris, and is now in the Smiths.
Mus. It is at once recognizable by the sides being black. This bird may be
0. costototl, Gmelin, as cited above, founded on a description of Hernandez, but
not to be so determined satisfactorily.
2. Melanophantes.
5. Hyphantes xanthomus (Sclater).
Icterus xanthomus, Sclat. Cat. Am. B. p. 131 (1862).
Bill straight, pointed, thick at base; wing with the second and third quills longest, tail
moderate, rounded, legs rather strong. Adult. Shoulders yellow; all other parts of the
plumage glossy black. Under wing coverts black, uniform with the other black plumage.
Yellow space on the shoulder frequently edged with yellowish white ; very pale and nearly
pure white in some specimens. Bill black, paler at base of under mandible; legs brown-
ish black. Sexes alike? Total length about 7'4 to 8 inches: wing 4 to 4'. t '. tail :;' inches.
Hab. Porto Rico; St. Thomas? West Indies. Spec, in Mus. Acad,, Philada., and Mus.
Smiths., Washington.
This is one of the anomalous forms, not to be arranged without difficulty,
and, in structure, a curious species. My present opinion is that it is analogue
of Agelaius in the genus Hyphantes, but am not without a suspicion that it
really belongs in the subfamily with Agelaius and Molothrus. Easily recog-
nized by its short compact structure, straight and almost conic bill, black
plumage and yellow shoulders. (The under wing coverts being clear black,
not yellow or partly so, as in Pendulinus cayanensis and P. tibialis, which this
bird resembles in colors only.) Specimens in Acad. Mus., from the Massena
collection, without label, numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus., exclusively
from Porto Rico, in the fine collections of Mr. George Latimer.
3. Aporophantes.
6. Hyphantes pyrrhopterus (Vieillot).
Agelaius pyrrhopterus, Vieill. Xouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 543 (1819).
Pendulinus periporphyrus, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 432 (1850).
Bill straight, sharp, rather slender; wing moderate; tail rather long, graduated; feet
strong. Adult. Shoulders dark chestnut; all other parts of plumage lustrous black. Bill
bluish black, feet brownish black. Total length about 8 inches; wing 3} to I} 1 ^, tail 4 in.
Hib. Northern South America; Bolivia (Massena Coll.) Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada.
Another singular and anomalous form in this group, and not to be assigned
to any genus without difficulty. The bill is straight, pointed and conic,
though rather weak, the wings may almost be said to be rounded, the first
quill shorter, the next four nearly equal, and the tail long and partially gradu-
ated. At present my impression is that this bird belongs here, though it may
be perhaps more properly regarded as Pendulinus or possibly Agelaius.
The only specimens that I have seen of this curious species are in the Acad.
Mus., from the Massena collection, one of which is from D'Orbigny's collection,
and is labelled " Chicquitos." Easily distinguished by its chestnut shoulders
and black plumage, which combination is peculiar.
IV. Genus CASSICUS, Brisson.
Cassicus, used generically, Briss. Orn. ii. p. 98 (1760).
Cassicus, Daud. Traite D'Orn. ii. p. 322 (1800),
Cassicus, Illig. Prod., p. 214 (1811). Cuv. Reg. An. i. p. 394 (1817).
1 . Cassicus.
1. Cassicus hvEmorrhous (Linnams).
Oriolus ha-morrlious, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 161 (1766).
1867.]
