Gt PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
Buff. PI. Enl., 482. Swains. B. of Braz., pi. 1. Shaw Nat. Misc. x. pi 365.
Prevost Ois. Exot., pi. 71. Dubois Orn. Gal., pi. 43. D'Orb. Cuv. Orn. pi.
37. Briss. Orn ii. pi. 8.
Bill large, slightly curved, wing long, third quill longest, tail moderate or rather short,
feet strong. Adult. Back and rump bright scarlet: all other parts of the plumage lustrous
black; bill bluish or greenish yellow; feet brownish black. Sexes alike in colors.
Younger. Back and rump yellowish scarlet; other parts of plumage dull brownish black;
bill dull greenish yellow, darker at base. Total length, male, about 12 inches; wing 7}^,
tail 4 to -1 ' 2 inches; female smaller.
Hiab. South America; Central and Eastern? Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus.
Smiths., Washington.
Apparently one of the most abundant birds of South America. In all col-
lections in this country, usually from Bahia, Rio de Janeiro, St. Katherine,
ami other points in Eastern Brazil. Perhaps the same also from Guiana and
Trinidad. In this species the bill is not so large as in the next succeeding,
(C. affinis,) but in all other characters the two birds are very similar, and prob-
ably ought to be regarded as identical.
2. Cassicus affinis, Swainson.
Cassicns affinis, Swains. B. of Braz.
" Cassicus crassirostris, Aliq." Bonap. Compt. Rend., 1853, p. 833.
Swains. B. of Braz., pi. 2.
To be distinguished from the preceding by its thicker bill, which is, so far
as I can see, the principal character, and but a doubtful species. Not having
a sufficient number of specimens which are clearly this bird, to form a satis-
factory series or to show gradations, I give it provisionally as distinct, and
very nearly as defined by the Prince Bonaparte in Compt. Rend, xxxvii. p.
833.
Like the preceding, and about the same size, but with the bill much larger, especially at
base, straighter and wider; wing long; tail rather short. Back and rump bright scarlet;
all other parts of the plumage lustrous black; bill bluish yellow; feet brownish black.
Total length about 12% inches; female smaller.
ILib Northern South America: '-Cayenne." Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada.
The Prince Bonaparte's diagnosis of this species, as above crted is :
"Grande; d'un noir luisant; la couleur rouge 6tendue ; le bee droit, mais
tres-dilat6, enorme a la base." Several specimens in the Massena collection
present all these characters, and especially the last, the bill being, indeed,
quite entitled to be considered i nurmous at base. The scarlet of the back is of
greater extent than in either of the two next succeeding, ami perhaps also of
the preceding, (C. hxmorrhous,) as stated by the Prince Bonaparte, as above
cited; but I cannot see that this bird is of a more lustrous black than the pre-
ceding, as also stated by him in descriptions of the two supposed species
" noir mat " and " noir luisant."
Specimens in the Acad. Mus. from "Cayenne."
3. Cassicus uropygialis, Lafresnaye.
Cassicus uropygialis, LafreS. Rev. Zool., 1843. p. 290.
Cassicus curvirostris, Lafres. Rev. Zool., 1847, p. 218.
Halm Voeg., pt. vi. pi. G?
Like the two preceding, (C. hxmorrJiout and C. affinis,') hnt smaller, and with the bill
curved, and the BCarlel of the back and rump more restricted. In all .specimens now
before inc. the scarlet on the upper parts is restricted to the rump, and much smaller in
extent than in either of the preceding, and frequently assuming a yellowish or copper
lustre, (which is the case also in the succeeding species, ' '. micramynchm). Entire other
plumage lustrous black, bill greenish yellow, feet dark brown. Mill thick at base, both
mandibles curved, wing long, tail moderate or rather short. Total length about 10 to lu%
inches ; wing C<},, tail . r >J4 to b]^ inches. Female smaller.
//</. Northern South America: Bogota: Rio Atrato. Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst.,
Washington, and in Coll. Mr. Lawrence, New York.
Apparently a Bpecies of fair respectability. The specimens before me could
readily be distinguished from either of the preceding, but perhaps not so easily
from the next succeeding, ( C microrhyncktu,) which it more strongly resembles.
The more restricted scarlel of the body above is a reliable character, and the
bill always presents a degree of curvature not seen in the preceding.
[April,
