NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 65
Very fine adult specimens of this curious species are in an extensive and
valuable collection from Bogota, recently presented to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion by the Hon. A. A. Burton, late Minister of the United States to New
Grenada. It is also in Oapt. Michler's collection from the Rio Atrato, and I
have seen it in other collections.
4. Cassicus microrhynchus (Sclater et Salvin).
Cassiculus microrhynchus, Sclat. et Salv. Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1864,
p. 353.
About the size of C. umjiygiafis, and much resembling it, but with the bill smaller and
straighter. Scarlet of the upper parts nearly restricted to the rump, and frequently
tinged with yellow, as in that species, but much smaller in extent than in C. lutmorrhous
and C. affinis. Plumage lustrous black, (except the rump,) bill greenish yellow, legs
brownish black. Bill small; in some specimens nearly straight, but generally slightly
curved; (usually not proportionately larger than in the thrushes, and resembling that of
the subgroup Cassiculus;) wing long, tail rather short, feet strong. Total length about 9
inches.
Hab. New Grenada; Panama; Central America? Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Inst., Washing-
ton, and in Coll. Mr. G. N. Lawrence, N. Y.
Mainly distinguishable from the preceding, (C uropygialis,) by its small bill,
generally straighter, but frequently somewhat curved, and, in fact, the ap-
proximation to that species is quite general, and yet to be more diligently
inquired into. The scarlet of the rump is nearly of the same extent as in that
species, and restricted, but in all the specimens under examination the wings
seem shorter, and have the third quill longest, and perhaps all the quills nar-
rower than in C. uropygialis.
This is the last of the red-backed species. We will now try what can be
done with the yellow backs, as follows :
5. Cassicus persicds (Linnaeus).
Oriolus persicus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 161 (1766).
Oriolus cacicus, Shaw, Gen. Zool. vii. p. 413 (1809).
Cassicus icteronotus, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. v. p. 315 (1817).
Edwards Birds, pi. 319. Briss. Orn. ii. pi. 9. Buff. PI. Enl., 184. Swains.
B. of Braz., pi. 3. Prevost Ois Exot., pi. 71.
Adult Lower part of back, and upper and under tail coverts yellow. Tail, with its basal
half to two-thirds, yellow. Large spot on the greater wing coverts yellow. All other parts
lustrous black; bill yellow, feet dark brown, bill thick, slightly curved, wing long, third
and fourth quills usually longest, tail rather short, feet strong. In this species the outer
tail feathers are generally yellow in the basal two-thirds of their length, which color
becomes shorter in each succeeding feather, and in the middle feathers are seldom more
than one-half of their length; (in C. vitellinus these proportionate lengths of the yellow
color of the tail are reversed). Specimens occur in which the outer tail feathers are yel-
low in three-fourths of their length. Younger. Yellow of the plumage with a greenish
tinge; other parts brownish black, tinged with greenish yellow on the abdomen. Bill
brownish or bluish at the base. Total length, cf, 11 to 1\}4 inches; wing G, tail 4 to i%
inches. . Total length about 8 to 9 inches ; wing 5, tail 3% to i inches.
Hab. Northern South America; Trinidad. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and Mus.
Smiths., Washington.
An abundant and long-known species, to be found in all collections, but not
always presenting uniform characters, specimens differing in size and shape of
the bill, extent of yellow on the back and tail, and I am not sure that various
species might not be made' by a sufficiently enterprising and speculative per-
son. The bill in this species seems to be always smaller than in the next suc-
ceeding, (C. vitellinus,) and it is further clearly distinguished from that species
by the yellow of the tail, as above described.
Numerous specimens in the Mus. Smiths., from Trinidad, Guiana, "Amazon "
and Eastern Peru, ("Head waters of the Huallaga River,") and in the Mus.
Acad., from Trinidad, Surinam, " Brazil " and other localities. Specimens
from Trinidad seem to be the smallest, and perhaps not quite the same, specific-
ally. Another style in the Mus. Acad., without label, has the bill short, and
the yellow of the back extending upwards, and still another, also, without
label, has the bill unusually straight and pointed.
1867.] 5
