60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
G. CASSicrs yitellinus, Lawrence.
Cassicus vitellinus, Lawr. Proc. Acad. Philada. 1864, p. 107.
Like the preceding (0. persicus), but with the bill thicker and more curved, the yellow of
the tail much more restricted and reversed, being shortest on the outer feathers. Adult.
Entire plumage lustrous black, except the back and upper and under tail coverts and a
large space on the greater wing coverts, which are rich yellow, inclining to orange [darker
and of a richer shade than in the preceding). Bill yellow, generally tinged with greenish,
especially the under mandible: feet dark brown. "Eye opal color, bill greenish yellow,
legs black." (Mr. F. Hicks' label, Panama), d- Total length lli to 12 inches, wing &U
to 7. tail \y t to 4% inches. ?. Total length about 9% inches, wing 4 to 4}4, tail :;"., to T
inches.
Bab. Northern South America. New Grenada, abundant at Panama. Turbo, Atrato River,
Central America'.' Spec, in Mus. Smiths., Washington; Mus. Acad., Philada.. and coll. Mr.
Geo. N. Lawrence, New York.
Clearly a distinct, and in the numerous specimens now under examination,
an easily recognized species. It seems to be uniformly rather larger and with
the bill thicker than C. persicus. The fine rich and deep yellow of the back in
the adult of this species, I have never seen in its relative, and is correctly
pointed out by Mr. Lawrence as a specific character, as above.
Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Mus., from Panama, and in Col. Mieh-
ler's collection from the Atrato River. Specimens in the Acad. Mus. labelled
doubtfully as from " Mexique."
7. Cassicus melanotics, nobis.
Prevost Ois. Exot. pi. 71 ? Hubner, Samml. Voeg. pi. 99 ?
In the Massena collection, now a part of the ornithological collection of the
Philadelphia Academy, there is a single specimen of a species resembliug and
allied to C. persicus, but with the tail and under tail coverts entirely black.
This specimen is labelled as a female and from Guyaquil, in the handwriting of
M. Victor Massena, Prince D'Essling, and is the only one that I have ever seen
of the species.
Adult 9- Smaller than either of the preceding, though strictly of the same subgroup,
and with the tail entirely black, and the under tail coverts black. A wide transverse band,
immediately above the under tail coverts, yellow. Hump and a large spot on the wing, at
its insertion with the body, yellow. The longer tail coverts Mack. All other parts, includ-
ing tln> head, Deck and 'back, and entire under parts of the body, wings and tail. Mack.
Bill light colored, feet dark. Bill smaller than in C. persicus, pointed; wing moderate or
rather long, third quill longest; tail ] lerate, legs rather short.
Total length s ;t .j inches, wing 4J4, tail 3% inches, i female).
flat. Guayaquil (Massena Coll.) Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada.
2. Cassiculus.
Genus Cassiculus, Swains. Faun. Bor. Am. ii. p. 27G (1831).
8. Cassicus melanicterus (Bonaparte).
Icterus melanicterus, Bonap. Jour. Acad. Philada. iv. p. 389 (1825).
Icterus diadematus, Temm. PI. Col.
Cassiculus coronatus, Swains. Philos. Mag. 1827, p. 436.
Temm. PI. Col. 482. Jard. & Selb. 111. Orn. ii. pi. 45.
('rested, tail entirely yellow, except the two middle feathers and the outer web Of the
outer feather, which are black. Large, bill straight, tapering, pointed: wing long, third
and fourth quills longest : tail rather long; head with a crest of long and Blender feathers.
Adult ff. Back and upper and under tail coverts and tail (except two middle feathers)
> ellow, middle and greater wing coverts yeiiou. ah other parts of the plumage lustrous
black, mu bluish or greenish yellow, legs dark brown. Outer web of outer tail feather usu-
allv dark brown, and the yellow feathers of the tail are frequently spotted with brown at
their tips. Total length abou! 12 to i:i inches, wing 6 to 6J4, tail 6V$ to 6 inches. Female
.smaller, and with the dark parts of the plumage usually tinged with brown. Total length
about a 1 ,, inches. Young. No crest, dark parts of plumage brownish black, yellow parts
tinged with green, all the yellow tail feathers edged on both webs with dark brown. An
irregular large spol on each side nt the I, use of the upper mandible dull yellOW, throat with
numerous whitish spots.
HaA Mexico, Abundant at Mazatlan, Acapulco. Spec, in Mus. Acad., Philada., and
Mus. Smiths., Washington.
The only species of this group having a well defined crest, and easily recog-
[April,
