NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89
initial velocity which it acquired in the rounding process. I have found by
calculation that this velocity may be so great as to give all the zone on the
nebular equator a centrifugal force equal to the centripetal force. Therefore
a period may arrive in the contraction of a nebula, when the equatorial zone
can no longer approach towards the centre, but must be abandoned as a ring
circulating around the nebula, until by perturbation it is broken, and subsides
by gravity into a rotating nebulous planet. Friction, however, in the cases of
some nebula;, may be so powerful as to retard the velocity, and prevent the
separation of matter in the form of a ring.
There are some points of difference between a comet and a particle on a ro-
tating equatorial zone. A comet, in departing from the sun, is deprived by
gravity of all that velocity which, in approaching the sun, was imparted by
gravity. A nebulous particle does not fly off from the centre like a comet
when departing from periphelion, because it does not run in a conic section ;
and it cannot pursue a conic section on account of friction, which retards its
motion, and also on account of atomic repulsion in the nebulous mass,
which forces it outside of the elliptic curve on the way towards periphelion.
The spiral course of the nebulous particle, from the slowness of nebular con-
traction, is nearly circular, and hence, when the centrifugal equals the centri-
petal force, the particle takes nearly a circular orbit. Hence, as it always ap-
proaches the centre of the nebulous mass, it always receives velocity from
gravity. And when it ceases to approach, it never flies far off, and therefore
never loses velocity from gravity, as does the comet.
Gravity could cause no rotation, unless a particle on the surface had first a
horizontal motion given in the process of rounding the nebula, and unless the
nebula contracted. By this horizontal motion and by contraction, the particle
approaches the centre of the nebulous sun obliquely, and gravity hastens it
down the inclined path. The particle cannot stop, because there is nothing
to make it stop. Repulsion cannot stop it, because repulsion, like centrifugal
force, is every instant yielding before it, and allowing it to retain all its actual
motion, and to acquire more motion by a fall every instant towards the centre.
If it be delayed in its velocity by friction on other particles, then just so much
momentum must be imparted to them, 'and they too will move in the direction
of an inclined plane towards the centre, and these again will move other parti-
cles, and so on until the entire mass moves and rotates. If the particle had
no horizontal motion, then repulsion and gravity would act upon it in opposite
directions, and it would partake only of the general contraction in radial lines
towards the centre. There could be no rotation. But by its horizontal mo-
tion, and by the slow contraction of the mass, slower than is due to gravity,
the particle finds the path before it every instant settling down. Hence
every instant it goes down as it goes forward, and its motion is in the direction of
an inclined plane, and subject to the inclined plane law of increased velocity ;
that is, a velocity equal to that of a fall through the height of the plane.
Imagine a circle, the equatorial section of a nebulous globe, with a million
of radii. Then the particle with a horizontal motion finds at each succeeding
radius that the surface, by contraction, has gone down towards the centre. It
must, through gravity, follow that surface downward. Every instant, there-
fore, it receives a new impulse down its course, a million of impulses in one
revolution. Then, with no impulse in the contrary direction, its velocity must
increase.
By calculating the velocity of the equatorial zone of our sun down an in-
clined plane as due to gravity, I ascertained the velocity of rotation of our sun
when in a nebulous condition, and found that it precisely equalled, at different
stages of its contraction, the present velocities of the planets and asteroids
when an infinitessimally small allowance is made for an inevitable friction on
the unrotating or slowly rotating interior. These small allowances due to
friction are given in my recent volume, " The Origin of the Stars." In that
volume also the rotations of the several nebulous planets are shown to have
1867.]
