90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
been the ?nmo as the present revolutions of their satellites ; and the reason is
pointed out why the smaller planets could have qo satellites. By these and
by many other coincidences the discovery was first made that gravity is the
FORCE WHICH IMPARTED ALL THEIR MOTIONS TO ALL THE STARS.
It is proper now to attend to three objections which, on account of the pre-
sent state of astronomical science, naturally rise against this view of the ne-
cessity and velocity of nebular rotation.
The first objection is that this view " contravenes the principle, of conserva-
tion of areas." The fallacy of this objection may be seen by a very simple
arithmetical calculation. We will take Mercury, w hose radius vector moves
most rapidly, and at the rate of 110,000 per hour. Neptune is about eighty
times farther from the sun. The original extent of our nebulous sun was half-
way to the nearest fixed star ; say 3.622 times farther than Neptune, and con-
sequently, in round numbers, 3622 X 80 = 290,000 times farther than .Mercu-
ry. The area described by the radius vector of Mercury in one hour equals
that radius multiplied by half its distance per hour, say 1 X 110,000 2.
The area described by the radius vector of the original nebulous sun must
have equalled that radius multiplied by half its distance per hour, say 290,000
X * -f- 2. Both these areas must be equal. Now what must be the value of
k that, when multiplied by 290,000, gives 110,000 ? Plainly 11, or \ nearly ;
that is, the movement of the radius vector of the original nebulous sun, or, in
other words, its primary rotation, was about one-third of a mile per hour. I
will soon point out how this velocity was obtained.
The second objection is drawn from a misapplication of the principle that
action and reaction are equal, and in opposite directions. By this principle,
when an object falls to the earth, the earth falls proportionally to the object j
when we walk forward in a straight line, we push the earth backward pro-
portionally ; when a car, by gravity, runs down an inclined plane, the earth
as well as the plane moves proportionally in the opposite direction : that is,
both upward and backward. Therefore it has been wronglj inferred that when
a particle, or all the particles, on the rotating exterior of a contracting nebula
move by gravity in the direction of an inclined plane toward the centre, then
the interior should move proportionally just the contrary way. It has been
wrongly inferred that these two opposite motions should counterbalance each
oilier, that in fact there can be no such operation, that the whole idea is like
" the old absurdity of a perpetual motion, or of a man trying to lift himself up
by pulling at the straps of his boots."
But all such inferences show a misunderstanding of the case. We must
learn to see the difference between moving in the direction of an inclined
plane, and moving on an actual inclined plane. A comet or a planet approach-
ing perihelion is moving in the direction of an inclined plane. With its tor-
ward motion in its orbit it has an inclined motion towards the sun. and its
velocity is hastened by gravity in consequence of this inclination. Imagine a
hundred comets all in the plane of the sun's equator, and equally distributed
around the sun, and all approaching their perihelion. While all would be
accelerated by gravity toward the sun, the sun would not be moved in any
way towards them, because it would be equally acted on all around by the
comets. Neither could there be any reaction to make the sun rotate in the
opposite direction, because there is no actual inclined plane to cause a back-
ward motion. The comets have the inclined plane motion without an inclined
plane. In the same manner on the horizontal equatorial zone of a rotating
and contracting nebula, all the particles move in the direction of an inclined
plane spirally coiled many times around, and all are hastened by gravity
according to the law of velocity on such a plane, but not one of them moves
down an actual inclined plane. Thbt all reposb on a i.kvf.i, ob horizontal
surface! therefore they do uot move the interior backward while they move
forward. If they were on an actual inclined plane they would create a conn-
[July,
