NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA.
91
ter movement. But such is not the case. Each one, while approaching the
centre, draws the entire mass up towards itself, as when a fly alights on the
earth, but being equally distributed all around, they counteract one anothers'
efforts in this regard, and produce no result. The reason why there is a back-
ward reaction on a real inclined plane is simply because of the inclination of
the surface. An object cannot repose quietly on such a surface. The forward
motion of the object must give a backward push to the surface. But when
there is no inclined surface, as on an equatorial zone, there can be nothing
against which a backward push can be made by mere gravity.
In its approach toward perihelion a comet is upheld from falling in a straight
line toward the sun by centrifugal force ; that is, its plane is sustained by
centrifugal force. In like manner, on the equatorial zoue of a rotating and
contracting nebula, a particle is upheld from falling straight toward the sun s
centre, partly by centrifugal force and partly by atomic repulsion ; that is, its
plane is upheld partly by centrifugal force and partly by repulsion. But nei-
ther of these hinders the force of gravity from imparting every instant an in-
creased velocity in the inclined plane direction. Both repulsion and centrifu-
gal force are constantly yielding before the power of gravity, and allowing the
comet or the particle to be accelerated. In this way inclined plane direction
and increasing velocity are produced without an actual inclined plane, and
hence one of the reactions of an inclined plane is wanting : namely, the back-
ward reaction. The other reaction the upward is nullified by opposite
particles on opposite sides of the nebula.
Atomic repulsion has two effects different from mere centrifugal force ; it
hinders the moving particle from following an elliptic orbit, and it causes re-
tardation by friction. But the direction of its action is always in a radial line,
always perpendicular to the nebular surface on which the particle quietly re-
poses ; and it yields every instant like centrifugal force before the power of
gravity, which continually brings the particle toward the centre. In the be-
ginning of nebular rotation, and when that rotation is very slow, a particle on
the exterior presses with nearly all its weight on the interior. It is then up-
held very little by centrifugal force, and chiefly by repulsion. As it moves
more rapidly it acquires greater centrifugal force, and presses less heavily on
the interior. It becomes hourly less and less upheld by repulsion, and more
and more by centrifugal force. At length it is held up entirely by centrifugal
force, and presses no more on the interior. It is independent of repulsion ; it
circulates freely around the centre, without approaching it. The centripetal
and the centrifugal forces are equal.
An important illustration may be made with a funnel to show that a fluid
may move down the direction of an inclined plane without producing the back-
ward reaction,. of such a plane. Suspend the funnel by a single small silk braid,
having no twist. Pour in the water, and give a portion a horizontal motion.
Give the funnel an equal impulse in the opposite direction. The water, as it
runs through the funnel, will rotate, and evidently every particle of the water
will run an inclined plane direction, but the plane must necessarily take the
form of a coil. According to the principle of the backward reaction on an
actual inclined plane, the natural expectation would be to see the funnel ro-
tate in the direction contrary to that of the water. But this does not occur.
On the other hand, the water, by friction, carries the funnel around in the
same direction with itself. In like manner the exterior of a nebula must carry
along the unrotating interior with its own motion. The reason is the same in
both cases. There is no backward reaction, because in both cases the particles,
as they move, repose on a horizontal suhface. They do not move down an
actual inclined surface, and hence cannot react according to the law of an in-
clined plane surface. They have the law of velocity, but not the law of back-
ward reaction. This absence of the backward, though not of the upward, re-
action, may be regarded as a new dynamical principle. It has not before been
detected in the funnel problem, nor in the nebular theory, nor in aught else
that [ am aware.
1867.]
