92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
The third and last objection is that gravity cannot cause nebular rotation,
and that it cannot therefore be the force which imparted their present motions
to the stars. We have already seen that if, on the surface of the nebula which
formed our solar system, there had been a movement of rotation only about
one-third or one-half a mile per hour, then gravity, acting by the law of con-
servation of areas, would have imparted the velocity of 110,000 miles per hour
to Mercury. But how could this nebula have received a rotation of half a mile
sperhour? This question is easily answered by following the logical conse-
quences of the nebular theory, aided by well known facts in astronomy. The
fixed stars have velocities at least equal to the planets. When they were all in
a nebulous condition, just broken up from the vast nebulous disk stretching all
around within the Milky Way, they must have been irregular in form, quite
near to one another, and endowed with their present rapid velocities. Then, by
their mutual perturbations, they must have imparted motions to one auothers'
irregular exteriors.
The power of perturbation between the fixed stars is much stronger than has
been suspected By astronomers. In " The Origin of the Stars" I have shown
that the sun's gravity on Alpha Centauri is now so powerful that that star
must move more than 2,000 miles per clay at right angles to its present direc-
tion from ourselves, to gain a centrifugal force sufficient to avoid falling into
the sun. Estimating the masses of the stars from the amounts of their light
and their distances, then the power of gravity from Alpha Centauri alone on
our sun is so great that our sun must move more than 5300 miles per day to
avoid falling into that star ; and for the same reason our sun must fly with a
velocity of more than 13,000 miles per day to avoid falling into Sirius. When
these stars were in their nebulous conditions, expanded nearly to one another,
irregular in shape, and moving past one another with their present astonishing
velocities, their mutual power for moving currents on their irregular surfaces
must have been very strong. Moreover, they must have had the same liability
to fall into one another, and thus to produce rotation as the original stellar
nebula-.
We can also readily conceive how, in the very first formation of the several
solar nebulae, and flying along with inconceivable rapidity, their irregular
projections may not have had precisely the same motions as the centre of
gravity. From all these causes we can understand how, after the rounding
process, a motion of half a mile per hour may have been given to the one re-
sultant current on their surfaces.
I!ut whence the proper motions of the fixed stars? or rather, whence the
proper motions of the nebulas from which the fixed stars were formed? The
nebular theory gives the same cause for the forms and the motions of the
stellar systems as of our solar system. That theory points to a great original
nebula, trhose rotations by the force of gravity formed and moved the ring of
the Milky Way, and its interior disk, and its scattered exterior clusters.
Gravity, in causing this rotation and the proper motions of the fixed stars.
must have acted by the law of conservation of areas; ami now we must in-
quire how much motion, according to that law, was necessary on the surface
of our original stellar nebula? If half a mile per hour was sufficient for our
solar system, how much was necessary for our stellar system ? On the suppo-
sition that the stellar motions are as rapid as the planetary, and that the tone
Of gravity was equally Strong in both, then the original surface motions of
our solar and stellar nebulas must have been to each other in some proportion
inversely as the Lengths of their radii. But as the length of the Stellar radius
was almost infinitely longer than that of the solar radius, so the original mo-
tion on the surface of the stellar nebula must have been almosl infinitely
slower than on the BUrface of the solar nebula ; that is, almost infinitely slow-
er than half a mile per hour !
lint whence these very slow motions on the surfaces of the original stellar
nebula- ' These I have already given in the four sources of motion in the be-
ginning of this paper.
[July,
