NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93
In our solar nebula the areas described by the radius vector diminished
very slowly, on account of the very slight friction, which also retarded the
velocities of the planets, as I^have shown in Section 19th.
August 6 th.
Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Nineteen members present.
Dri H. C. Wood, Jr., called the attention of the Academy for a few minutes
to some observations on the life history of some of our siphonaceous fresh
water algae.
He stated that the accounts of the method of the production of the zoospores
of the ordinary Achyla prolifera, as given by Henfrey and Carpenter, differed
very essentially. The former states that the zoospores do not directly appear
in the filaments, but that in the original zoosporangium are formed only daugh-
ter cells by the aggregation of nitrogenous protoplasm, which daughter cells
are incapable of spontaneous motion, are unprovided with cilia, and are emitted
apparently by being, as it were, forced out by endosmotic pressure excited
through the zoosporangium. After emission, according to Henfrey, they re-
main clustered at the end of the filament, and in a few hours each daughter
cell gives origin to a single zoospore, which is formed from the whole of its
protoplasmic contents. According to Carpenter, the zoospores are formed di-
rectly in the zoosporangium, are theu furnished with cilia, and escape by means
of their own motile power. Dr. Wood stated that his own observations on the
plant entirely corroborate and coincide with the results arrived at By the la-
mented Henfrey, and that he had frequently seen the very delicate cellulose
coats of the daughter cells still aggregated around the distal end of the zoospo-
rangium after the escape of the zoospores from them. Dr. Wood further called
the attention of the members to the existence of several algoid forms growing
in the neighborhood of the city, which were closely allied to Achlya prolifera,
but in some respects quite distinct from it. In one of these, which appears to
be at least generically the same as the former species, the Doctor stated he had
studied the formation of resting spores, which takes place in a way similar to
that seen in other of the Siphonaceae, such as the Vaucheria. At the distal
end of a filament about to form resting spores a roundish bulb-like enlarge-
ment takes place, which soon is crowded with nitrogenous protoplasm derived
from the main filament, from which it is in a little while shut off by a delicate
membranous partition. About this time, just below such sporangium, there
appears a process very similar to that seen in the Vaucheria, which process fi-
nally conies in contact with the sporangium, between which and itself a com-
munication is soon established. The contents of the sporange now contract
themselves into a globular ball, and develop into the resting spore.
If these views and observations hereafter should be confirmed, they would
settle the doubt expressed by many authorities, whether the Achyla lie not
merely a submerged fungus, altered by this very submersion so as to resemble
an algoid growth ; for if species of the genus are found whose whole life his-
tory is similar to that of others of the Siphonacea^, even to the formation of
resting spores by a kind of conjugation, it seems indisputable that the organ-
isms under consideration are perfect entities, not merely degraded forms of
higher plants. Further, granting the facts stated, if one of the Siphonaceae is
a fungoid growth, surely all the others must be ; and it does not seem proba-
ble that the Vaucheria, with its green endochrome, is a fungoid growth.
Dr. Leidy mentioned the recent appearance of the seventeen year
locust in Montgomery, Wythe and other counties of Virginia.
1807.]
