94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
August \oth.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Nineteen members present.
The following was presented for publication :
"Additional Notes on male forms of Vitis vinifera." By T. Meehan.
By permission, the Committee reported in favor of publishing the
following paper, which was so ordered :
Notes on certain BIRDS from New Granada, with descriptions of New
Species.
BY GEO. N. LAWRENCE.
Tachyphoxcs rnopiNQrrs.
Tacliyphonus rubrijrona, Lawr., Proc. Acad. Sci. Phil. 18G5, p. 106.
In a conversation with Mr. McLeannan concerning the red on the forehead
of the male in this species, he said the sexes were alike in plumage, and sug-
gested that the color might be a stain caused by its feeding on some kind of
fruit ; on examination with a glass, it is quite apparent that the color is due to
such a cause, the pulp, probably of some kind of fruit, still adhering to the
feathers.
The first name, therefore, being inappropriate, I propose iu place of it that of
propinquus, from its near relationship to T. xanthopygius.
2. PlI/EXICOTHRAUPIS YIXACEA.
Male. Crest scarlet, distinctly bordered on each side with a line of blackish
feathers; the entire upper plumage besides, including the tail, is of a dark
vinaceous red ; the quills have their inner webs blackish-brown, the outer are
the color of the back, but brighter, as are also the outer margins of the rec-
trices; the under plumage is likewise dark vinaceous, but lighter than the
back, with the throat clearer in color, but not so decidedly as in all the other
allied species, except P. rubica, in which the entire under plumage is quite
dull ; the upper mandible is black, the under brown : tarsi and toes reddish-
brown.
Length about Cj in. ; wing 3 ; tail 3$ ; bill 9-lGths ; tarsi J.
Habitat. New Granada, line of the Panama Railroad.
Remarks. I have had this specimen for some years, and considered it dif-
ferent from any of its atlines ; in its upper plumage it comes nearest to P. ru-
bica, but the color is deeper and clearer, the sides of the head are not dusky as
in that species, in the coloring below they are not at all alike, rubica being of
a dull brownish-red, with but little brightness even on the throat, whereas the
other is of quite a clear color throughout; rubra, rubicoides and fuscicauda have
their throats much lighter and brighter in color ; it is smaller than any of the
Others except rubra, from which it scarcely differs in size ; they are also much
alike iu their upper plumage, but rubra has the rump and tail brighter, and
below LB much paler in color, being the most so of any id' the group. Its deep
and nearly uniform color will distinguish it from all the others.
In an article by Mr. Salvia (l'roc. Zool. Soc. London, 1807), "On some
Collections of Birds from Veragua," he refers a bird to J', rubica with a ques-
tion, id' which be has several specimens; from his remarks I should judge it to
be the .-nine as the above described species.
3. Leptoptii.a CASSINIl.
Leptoptila verreauzi, Cass., Proc. Acad. Sci. Phil. 18G0, p. 195.
Leptoptila rrrrcauxi, Lawr., Annals Lye. N. Y. vol. vii. p. 333.
J/aZe. Forward part of the crown and front bluish-white, paler next the
bill | hind part of crown and nape, back, wings and central tail feathers, of a
[August,
