NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95
dark greenish olive-brown, washed on the upper part of the back with vina-
ceous ; the lateral tail feathers are purplish-black, the outer two on each side
marked with grayish-white at their ends ; quills dark brown, tinged with pur-
ple, the inner margins for two-thirds their length from the base pale dull cin-
namon ; lining of wings and axillars deep cinnamon ; a band on the hind neck,
of bluish ash, connecting with the same color on the breast ; the lower part
and sides of the neck are of a paler bluish-ash ; chin and throat white ; the
sides are dark olive-brown ; upper part of abdomen of a pale vinaceous, the
lower part nearly white, just tinged with the color of the upper part ; feathers
over the thighs filamentous, and of a grayish-white color, as are also those of
the vent ; under tail coverts brown, with their ends white ; bill black ;
" irides vellow ;" tarsi and toes fleshy yellow.
Length (fresh) 10| in. ; wing 5]~ ; tail 3-f ; bill f ; tarsi 1 3-lGths.
The female does not differ materially from the male.
Habitat. New Granada. Line of the Panama Railroad.
Remarks. This species was referred to L. verreauxi by Mr. Cassin, in hi?
" Catalogue of Birds from the Isthmus of Darien," and by myself in " Catalogue
of Birds from New Granada," &c. Since then I received from Mr. McLeannan
a specimen of another species, which I determined to be the true L. verreauxi,
Bp. ; on a recent visit to Boston I was able to verify it as being so, by com-
parison with that species in the Lafresnaye collection, now the property of the
Boston Natural History Society, the liberal gift of the late Dr. Henry Bryant.
L. verreauxi is above of a lighter and more decided olive, the outer three tail
feathers on each side end more largely in white, the under plumage is much
lighter and very different in color, the neck and upper part of the breast being
of a light vinaceous rose color, gradually merging into white on the abdomen;
the under tail coverts are entirely white.
The two species are very different in appearance, that of cassinii being very
dark, whereas the colors of verreauxi are comparatively light.
I have conferred the name of my friend Mr. John Cassin on this fine species.
In the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution are specimens from Costa Rica,
as well as those from the Atrato in Lt. Michler's collection.
Mr. John Galbraith, in his notes sent with the collection made for me on the
line of the Panama Railroad, states that it is " common, but shy."
August 20th.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Nineteen members present.
August 27th.
Mr. Vatjx, Vice President, in the Chair.
Sixteen members present.
The following gentlemen were elected members :
Dr. J. K. Tyson, Dr. W. Pepper, Dr. Geo. Pepper, Dr. Horace
Binney Hare and Elias D. Kennedy.
The following were elected correspondents :
Geo. J. Durham, Austin, Texas; John Henry Gurney, Norfolk, Eng.j
Osbert Salvin, London ; T. C. Jerdon, M. D., Madras, India ; and Prof.
J. Reinhardt, Copenhagen.
Prof. Cope communicated by letter the following description of a
new genus of Cyprinoid fishes from Virginia :
Among the Cyprinidre of the Kanawha River, at Eggleston's Springs, one
appeared to be of sufficient interest to mention to the Academy. I took but
1867.]
