06 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
two specimens, supposing them to be the young of some species of Catostomus
or sucker. The size of the scales shows that it does not pertain to any species
known in this region, and I was, therefore, induced to examine the pharyn-
geal teeth and alimentary canal. I found, to my surprise, that they were both
of the carnivorous type, showing the form and position of the mouth to be de-
ceptive, though they are frequently coordinated parts. The genus and species
appearing to have hitherto escaped observation.
Piienacobius Cope. Pharyngeal teeth 4 4, uncinate raptatory, sharp edged ;
alimentary canal not longer than head and body ; dorsal fin above the ventrals ;
scales normal, lateral line complete; mouth very small, inferior, maxillary
arch projectile, covered by a thick fleshy lip, which is enlarged posteriorly
and behind mandible ; no barbels ; mandible naked, included. Aspect of Ca-
tostomus. Name from <bivu%, deceptive, and /??, life.
Piienacobius teretulus Cope, sp. nov.
Head stout, 4 times in total length, exclusive of caudal fin, equal depth at
dorsal fin ; orbit 3-5 in length of former, its superior rim on frontal plane. Pre-
orbital bone elongate parallelogramrnic. Muzzle elongate, decurved obtuse,
heavy. Canthus of mouth opposite middle of o. prseorbitale ; Bupra-opercular
region rounded; isthmus wide ; form moderate, caudal peduncle not attenu-
ated. Scales with coarse concentric lines and radii ; G 43 5 ; thoracic
region scaled. Pectoral fin not reaching ventrals, nor ventrals the anal.
Dorsal narrow, elevated ; caudal deeply forked ; radii D. 1. 8 : C-| 18-| : A. 7 :
V. 1. 8 : P. 17. Total length of specimen 3 in. 6-5 1. Above pale olive yel-
low, the scales faintly edged with black; below silvery; end of muzzle and
band on each side to orbit blackish ; a leaden band on each side on middle
line from behind ventrals to base of caudal, which is occasionally broken into
'spots.
The affinities of this fish appear to be to Ceratichthy? ; its habits and food
are probably similar ; as in that genus the natatory bladder is largely devel-
oped. Its habitat appears to be in the rapid parts of the river; I have not
seen it in the tributary creeks, though I have examined them carefully. .Sev-
eral specimens procured.
A second species of this genus exists in the upper waters of the Holston
River, (Va.,) which is more elongate than the P. teretulus, has smaller
scales, and a more vertical range of vision. The thick projectile lips are
slightly tuberculous ; the orifice of the mouth very small, and the inner i
of the narrow mandible a cartilaginous ridge. Its habit is to lie on the bottom
in the main channels of the river, as the form of its mouth would indicate,
while the digestive system indicates carnivorous diet. The species does not
occur commonly in the smaller creeks. It may be characterized as follows,
under the name :
1'licnacobius u r an o p s.
Isthmus very wide ; teeth 4 4. Head subcylindric ; muzzle broad, pro-
jecting: orbits oval, having some vertical range, 3-5 times in length head,
equal frontal width. Head -1-75 in length to origin caudal, 5-GG to end of
same. Depth of dorsal in same respectively G-25 and 7 - 25 times. Lateral
line straight ; scales cu, those on the line of and anterior to the ventrals
minute; lower surface from ventrals forward, naked. Pectorals extending
H wa\ to ventrals. R. 15; ventrals to vent, R. 8; anal narrow, short, 7.
Caudal deeply emarginate, its peduncle narrowed; R. 20; dorsal much larger
than anal ; 1.8; anterior margin longer than depth of body : equal pectorals.
in. lin.
Total length 3 7-5
I ie | it h at occiput , 4-5
" " dorsal 6-
" " caudal peduncle (least) 2-75
[August,
