NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 99
These extracts confirm my views in reference to the existence of imperfect
forms of Vitis vinifera, and they open up an interesting inquiry as to the cause
of seedless raisins. One of our fellow members suggests that my hypothesis
that they arc pistillate forms, imperfectly developed through lack of fertiliza-
tion, is unlikely, because, with so many vineyards of perfect grapes, at times
some of these would get fertilized from stray pollen, and thus we should occa-
sionally find seeds in dried corinths, which we do not. But old writers on the
corinth say that berries with seeds are found at times amongst the others, in
which case they are double the size (see Prince's Treatise on the Vine, pages
97, 98, copied probably from Duhamel). They are perhaps rejected when the
currants are being prepared.
However, the object of my note was to refer to the fact of the existence of
male plants; and the hypothesis in reference to the seedless grapes was intro-
duced rather to stimulate inquiry as to what the facts really are in relation to
their real nature and organization.
Description of an apparently new species of OWL, of the Genus SCOPS.
BY D. G. ELLIOT, P. L. S., F. Z. S., ETC.
Scops Kennicottii.
Head and upper parts light rufous brown, each feather having a central
streak of brownish-black, and also barred with the same color. The rufous-
brown hue lightest on the lower part of the neck, where it is almost a buff.
The outer feathers of the interscapulars have the outer webs light buff, forming
a distinct bar. Wings same color as the back, but the central streak broader.
Primaries dark brown, outer webs marked with distinct spots of light buff,
slightly discernible on the inner. Secondaries blackish- brown, outer webs
distinctly spotted with dark buff. Tertials mottled with light buff and black.
Ear tufts light buff, with a central streak of black, and barred with the same ;
broadest on the outer webs. Feathers around the eye reddish-brown ; those
covering the nostrils soiled white, with black shafts. Concealed patches of
white feathers equidistant between the ear-tufts and the ears. Upper part of
breast light buff; several feathers on each side having very broad central
streaks of black, forming together a conspicuous spot ; the rest have this mark
much narrower, and the black bars either nearly obsolete, or mere wavy lines.
Feathers of the flanks light buff, with a broad line of black in the middle, and
a conspicuous bar of pale yellowish-white near their tips. Centre of abdomen
and under tail coverts yellowish-white, a few indistinct brown bars on the
latter. Feathers of tarsi reddish-brown ; of feet yellowish-white. Bill black,
white at tip. Claws chestnut at base, rest black.
Total length 11 inches; wing 7] in., tail 4 in., bill in. along the curve,
claws i in.
IIab~ Sitka.
The general hue of this curious little owl is a reddish-brown, mottled and
blotched with black. In size it is between the Scops Asio and Olus Wilsonianus,
and is not unlike what a cross between these species might be supposed to re-
semble. It, however, bears very distinctive characters, which free it from any
such suspicion, among which, and not the least, is the curious concealed tuft
of white feathers just above the ears.
The specimen was procured at Sitka by the expedition engaged in hiving the
telegraph which is to connect the two great continents of America and Asia,
and is one of the most interesting additions which the indefatigable natural-
ists attached to this band of zealons workers have made to the Avi fauna of
North America.
The example from which my description is taken is unique, and belongs to
the Academy of Natural Sciences of Chicago, by the kindness of whose officers
1867.]
