100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
I am enabled to bring this bird to the notice of ornithologists ; and in my large
work on the Birds of North America, now publishing, I propose to give a life-
size portrait of this species.
In bestowing on this owl the name which I trust it is ever destined to bear,
I simply express the desire which I am sure is felt by all ornithologists, to
render honor to him who, combining the intrepidity of the explorer with the
enthusiasm of the naturalist, twice penetrated the forbidding, cheerless districts
of the far north, in order to extend the knowledge of his favorite science ; and
who perished in his early manhood, in the full tide of his usefulness, on the
banks of the Yukon.
Ornithology has met no greater loss, in these later days, than in the death of
Robert Kennicott.
A Study of the RAMPHASTID2E.
BY JOHN CASSIN.
Having been frequently interested, as well as greatly perplexed with the
singularly nearly allied forms in this group, and having recently undertaken
to study and label the large collections of the Philadelphia Academy and of
the Smithsonian Institution, my memoranda have been readily expanded into
this memoir. The collection of the Smithsonian Institution is mainly from
Mexico and Central America, and contains numerous specimens of species pre-
viously known only as exceedingly rare and valuable. The collection of the
Philadelphia Academy is quite extensive, and comprehensive also, containing
about five-sixths of all known species, nearly the whole of which were pre-
sented by its most munificent and judicious patrons, Dr. Thomas B. Wilson,
and Edward "Wilson, Esq.
In this group, species do certainly exist which are very nearly related to
each other, but I am not without a suspicion that the number has been un-
necessarily increased, and that several so-called species should be regarded as
varieties only, anil in a few instances I doubt whether even that distinction is
clearly tenable or permanent. In all cases, however, I give the species as I
find them described. The splendid Monograph of this group by Mr. Gould
renders the study of these birds comparatively easy ; and, in very nearly all
species, the figures are of the very first class in accuracy and faithfulness of
representation.
I. Genus RAMPHASTOS, Linnaeus.
Genus Ramphastos, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 103 (1758).
Ramphastos, Aldrovandus, Orn. i. p. 801 (1509).
Ramphestes, Gesner, Icon. Av. p. 130 (15GU).
1. Ramphastos.
1. Ramphastos Toco, Miiller.
Ramphastos Toco, Mull., Syst. Nat. Sopp. p. 80 (177G).
Ramphastos Toco, 6m., Syst. Nat. i. p. 356 (1788).
Ramphastos magnirostris, Swains., Cab. Cy. ii. p. 299 (1837).
Ramphastos niveus, Less., Supp. Oeuv. Buff.
Ramphastos picatus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 103 (1758)?
LeVaill. (lis. Par. pi. 2. Buff. PI. Enl. 82. Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi.
6, 2d ed. pi. 1.
This large and well known species is regarded as the type of the genus Ram-
phastos by all modern authors, bul as a matter of after as well as antecedent
consideration, and especially for strict constructionists (of which I am one), it
is worth remembering that, although the genus was established by Linnaeus (or
his editor Jussieu) as early as the fourth edition of Syst. Nat., in 1744, this
[Sept.
