NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101
species seems to have been then quite unknown to him. In the tenth edition
(1758), the first species mentioned is R. piperivorus, which is now included in
the genus Pteroglossus ; and in the twelfth edition (1766), the first species
mentioned is R. viridis, also a. Pteroglossus. This bird does not appear to have
ever come under his notice, unless it is R. picatus of the tenth edition. The
fourth edition of Syst. Nat., in which this name first occurs, was published in
Paris, and edited by B. Jussieu (in 1744). The next edition by Linnseus him-
self is the sixth, in 1748, and this name is given with the orthography as at
present, Ramphastos (6th edition Syst. Nat., p. 19, 1748), and as given by
Aldrovaudus in 1599.
This bird is, however, properly enough regarded as the type of its genus, the
name having been first applied to it, and it having been probably the very first
species known to naturalists. The bill is described and figured by Belou in
1555. It is more fully described and figured by Conrad Gesner in 1560 (Icones
Avium Omnium, p. 130), and the present generic name first occurs on the same
page : " Burhynchus ant Ramphestes appellari poterit." Aldrovaudus puts it
into its present shape: Ramphastos, Aldr. Orn. i. p. 801 (1599), and figures
quite intelligibly this same species (p. 802), perhaps copying from Gesner, but
much enlarging the figure. It was evidently amongst the earliest birds sent
to Europe after the discovery of America, and was known by the name of Ram-
phastos at least a century and a half before the time of Linnams, and is in all
characters a typical and representative species of its genus.
Large, bill very large; rich orange, with a large oval spot of black at the tip of the upper
mandible, and a transverse band of black at the bases of both mandibles. Throat white,
tinged with pale yellow, and in its lower part this white space is generally, but not always
edged and tinged with red. (In the next species, R. albor/idaris, the white of the throat is
pure, and not tinged with yellow nor edged with red.} This red color frequently wanting
in the female, and occasionally in the male, but the yellow tinge is very nearly always
present.
Upper tail coverts white, under tail coverts scarlet. All other parts of the plumage
blank, frequently tinged with brown on the head. Legs greenish or bluish-black.
Total length about 22 to 24 inches; wing 10, tail d]4 to 7, bill (chord from angle of mouth
to point of upper mandible) 1% to 8% inches. Female rather smaller; total length about
20 inches.
Hab. Northern and central South America, Guiana, Para, Rio Orinoco, Bolivia (Mr. W.
Evans), Paraguay (Capt. T. J. Page), Rio La Plata ( Dr. W. 8. W. Rusehenberger, U. 8. N.),
" Chiquitos, Bolivia" (label on D'Orbigny's specimen in Mus. Acad.) Spec. inMus. Acad.
Philada. and Mus. Smiths. Washington.
This fine species seems to have a wide range of locality in South America,
undoubted specimens being in the Acad. Mus. from Para, in north-eastern
Brazil, and from the Rio La Plata. It is also in the Mus. Smiths., in a very
interesting collection from Bolivia presented by Mr. W. Evans, and in the col-
lection made during the exploration and survey of the Rio La Plata and Rio
Parana, by Capt. T. J. Page, late of the IT. S. Navy. Specimens from the Rio
La Plata in the Acad. Mus. were collected and presented by its distinguished
and ever faithful membe^ Dr. W. S. W. Rusehenberger, of the U. S. Navy,
and the locality is undoubtedly authentic.
The larger size, especially of the bill, yellow tinge of the white space on the
throat and red edgings in the lower part of the same white space, distinguish
this species from the next succeeding, R. albugularis. The yellow tiuge is
present in all specimens that I have seen, though frequently very slight ; but
in some females the red edgings are wanting entirely.
This species is very probably Ramphastos picatus, Linn., Syst. Nat., 10th
edition (1758), but he cites as a synonyme Albin, Av. ii. pi. 25, which is appa-
rently a fictitious species, like a Pteroglossus. The description applies to the
present bird.
2. Ramphastos albogularis, Cabanis.
Ramphastos albogularis, Cab., Jour. Orn. 1862, p. 334.
Very similar to the preceding, If. Toco, but smaller, and with the white spaee on the
throat and neck im front pure, and without yellow tinge or red edgings in its Lower part.
1867.]
