102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
Transverse band of black at the base of the bill narrow, and spot of black at the tip of up-
per mandible much smaller. Colors of plumage as in R. Toco.
Total length about 19 to 20 inches; wing %%, tail 6, bill (chord) 5 inches.
llnh. Southern Brazil (Cabanis). Spec, in Mas. Acad. Philada.
The throat is pure white in this species, if such it is, and the transverse band
at the base of the bill seems to be much narrower than in R. Toco. The
general size is smaller, and the bill much shorter. Probably only to be dis-
tinguished from the female of R. Toco by the presence or absence of the yellow
tinge of the white of the throat, always present in R. Toco, always absent in R.
albogularis. The red edgings and tinge of the white throat are not reliable as
a character, being frequently absent in R. Toco, but ought to be always so,
according to Dr. Cabanis' description, in R. albogularis. I suspect thai this
bird is the young female of R. Toco, so far as I can judge from one specimen
only in the Acad. Mus., without label, stating locality.
2. Burhjnchus.
3. Ramphastos carinatus, Swainson.
Ramphastos carinatus, Swains. Zool. 111. i. p. (1821).
Ramphastos Tucanus, Shaw, Gen. Zool. viii. p. 362 (1811, nee Linn.)
Ramphastos sulfuratus, Less., Tr. Orn. i. p. 173 (1831).
Ramphastos callorhynchus, Wagl., Syst. Av. (1827).
Ramphastos pcecilorhynchus, Licht.
Ramphastos piscivorus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 151 (17GG) ?
Edwards, Birds, vii. pi. 329. Swains. Zool. 111. i. pi. 45. Gould, Mon.
Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 7, 2d ed. pi. 2. Edwards, Birds, ii. pi. 64?
This large and very handsome species is well known as a bird of Mexico,
and in the United States specimens were first introduced in sufficient numbers
to supply all museums by Mr. Rafael Montes D'Oca, who obtained them at
Jalapa. It stood isolated, and especially characterized by the colors of the
bill, until a near relative, R. brevicarinalus, was described by Mr. Gould in
1854, and in 1862 another near relative, R. approximans, Avas described by Dr.
Cabanis. These species, or supposed species, are very nearly related to each
other, and although I have before me no less than thirty-two specimens, cer-
tainly representing all three of them, from the Academy anil Smithsonian
collections, I acknowledge myself quite perplexed in attempting to distinguish
satisfactorily between them. At present, I can regard R. carinatus and R. ap-
proximans as differing only in the width of the scarlet band on the lower edge
of the yellow space on the throat, and 7i'. approximans and R. brevicarinatus as
differing only in size. There are, however, specimens before me which I can-
not clearly refer to cither of the three species, though very probably one or the
other, and' 1 find it quite impossible to ascertain different geographical districts
of locality. In fact, so far as can be determined from specimens before me,
evidently very carefully labelled, these species inhabit very nearly the same
countries and districts.
Throat yellow. Lower edge ofthe yellow space of the throat with a vtry tun-raw andjre-
m nihj obi curt band oftcarl i separating it from the Mack of the under parts of the body.
Bill green, tipped with red, and a large obovate sp"t of orange near the base of the upper
mandible, and an orange line on the eulmen. At base of bill a narrow transverse band of
ick.
Upper tail coverts white, under tail coverts searlet. All other parts of the plumage black,
with a strung tinge of reddish-brown on the top of the head and neck behind. Legs bluish-
black.
Total length about 22 to 24 inches ; wing 8] J. tail 7. bill [chord) ">' & to 6 Inches.
Hab. Mexico, Jalapa (Mr, D'Oca i, Mirador, Vera i Iruz t l>r. C. Sartorius), Potrero, Cordo-
va i Prof. F. Sumichrast), Vera Paz (Mr. O. Salvia). Coban, Guatemala (Mr. ll. Hague), Be-
i Honduras (Mr. C. J. Wood), spec in Mus. Acad. 1'hilada. and Mus. Smiths, washing-
ton.
The band of scarlet on the lower edge of the yellow space of the throat is
very narrow in this species, and frequently nol to be seen without examination,
but iu fourteen specimens now under examination, it is present, and can be
[Sept.
