110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
pluricinctus). Yellow of the under parts much mixed with scarlet. Otherwise much re-
sembling /'. pluricinctus.
Total length about 18 to 20 indies; wing 6 to 6% tail 7 inches. Female rather smaller.
Ebb. New ( trenada, Bio Trnando, a tributary of the Rio Atrato. Sped in Mus. Smiths.
Washington, and Mus. Acad. Philada.
Six specimens in Capt. Michler's collection, from the Rio Atrato and its
tributaries, are undoubtedly this species, and as distinct as customary in this
group from P. erythropygius. It is probably not smaller than that species.
8. Ptrroglossus torquatus, (Gmelin).
Ramphastoa torquatus, Gen. Syst. Nat. i. p. 354, (1788).
Pteroglossus ambiguus, Less. Traite. d'Orn. i. p. 178, (1831).
Pteroglossus regalis, Licht.
Ramphastos discolor, Mull. Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 83, (1776).
Tucana mexicana torquata, Briss. Orn. iv. p. 421.
Gould, Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 14, 2d ed. pi. 20.
Generally resembling the preceding, but rather smaller, and distinguished by a band of
chestnut on the neck behind. Upper band (on the breast) nearly obsolete, or represented
only by a large black spot on the breast. Yellow of the under parts much mixed with
scarlet.
Total length about 17 inches.
Y<>ung <J. Bill with the cutting edges plain, without serratures, and entirely light
brown, yellowish on the edges of the upper mandible. Adolescent. Under mandible
nearly Mack ; upper mandible orange at base; plumage nearly as in adult, but dull, and
abdominal hand narrow and imperfect.
llali. Central America, Northern South America, Mexico? Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada.
and Mus. Smiths. Washington.
Numerous specimens in Smiths. Mus. from Angostura and Turrialba, Costa
Rica, and from Coban and Choctun, Central Guatemala, and in the Acad.
Mus. from Chiriqui, Costa Rica, and Veragua, New Grenada, and several spe-
cimens labelled ' Mexique." One specimen in Acad. Mus. is labelled "Guay-
aquil," Ecuador.
This handsome Toucan, was until recently, a highly respectable species,
eminently distinguished by its chestnut collar worn on the neck behind; but
that character is no longer peculiar, two other species having appeared
setting up the same badge of distinction with some propriety. We will
proceed to examine their claims without unnecessary delay.
9. Pteroglossus nuchalis, Cabanis.
Pteroglossus nuchalis, Cabanis, Jour. Orn. 1862, p. 332.
Very similar to the preceding, P. ton/unfui, and with a chestnut collar on the neck be-
hind. Bill larger, longer, and curved at the end at a wider i>r more obtuse angle. Black
spot on the breast smaller, and yellow of the under parts more mixed with scarlet than in
/'. torquatus.
Total length about is inches.
Bab. " Porto Cabello" (Cabanis). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada.
This species, if so, can be recognized mainly by its larger and longer bill,
gradually curved and not so decidedly nor abruptly hooked at the end as in
P. torquatus. The under parts in the specimen before me are more mixed or
spotted with scarlet than in either of ten specimens of that species (P. tor-
quatus) in the Acad, and Smiths, collections, and at the termination of the
black on the neck in front there is a band of bright scarlet, narrower, but
more complete than in either of them. It may be only a full plumaged or
older specimen of that species 1
The only specimen in Acad. Mus. is labelled " Pteroglossus regalis,^ ? Mex-
ique," in a handwriting that I do not recoguise.
10. Pteroglossus Frantzii, Cabanis.
Pteroglossus Frantzii, Cab. Sitz. Bericht Naturf. Berlin, 18G1. Jour. Orn.
1862, p. 332.
Like /'. torquatus and /'. nuchalis, and about the same size or rather larger, but with the
abdominal band -very wide and nearly pure scarlet. Upper mandible yellow, except the
usual stripe en the eiihiieii. which is black, and a -j ace of dark greenish at base (yellow at
the tip, which is black in P. torquatus and J', nuchalis). chestnut-colored collar on the neck
[Sept.
