NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill
behind darker, and perhaps more narrow than in those species. Bill larger and wider
than in P. torquatut, but not so long as in P. nuchalis, and with the teeth smaller than m
either. In other characters much resembling these and nth it allies of P. pluricinctus.
Total length about 18 to 19 inches; wing 6 to i;>$, tail 6J^ to 7, bill (chord of upper mandi-
ble ! 1 inches.
Young. Bill with the cutting edge of upper mandible smooth (not serrated as in tin-
adult), entirely dull brown. Head dark brown ; abdominal band yellowish-scarlet. General
colors as in adult.
Bab. Costa Rica, " San Jose," " Angostura," " Chiriqui." Spec, in Mus. Smiths. Wash-
ington, and Mus. Acad. I'hilada.
This species is of the same general style and colors as the two preceding,
and has a well defined nuchal collar, but is easily to be recognized by its
wide and clear scarlet abdominal band, and yellow pointed upper mandible.
The abdominal band is more than double the width of that of either P. tor-
quatus or P. nuchalis, and seems to afford a character entirely reliable in
determining this species.
Specimens in the Smiths. Mus. are from the large and very interesting col-
lections of Mr. Julian Carmiol, made at various localities in the Republic of
Costa Rica as above cited.
11. Ptekoolossus castanotis, Gould.
Pteroglossus castanotis, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1833, p. 119.
Gould, Monogr. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 13, 2d ed. pi. 19.
This is one of the strongly marked species of this sub-group, and (in a
sort of aggregate) is not difficult to recognize, a large space on the sides of
the neck, continuing into a wide collar on the neck behind, being rich dark
chestnut. In all specimens before me the neck in front i3 chestnut also, but
this space differs in extent, and may give place to black. In two specimens
ihe throat, immediately at the base of the under mandible and within its
fork, is black, in others it is chestnut. One band only on the abdomen, which
is wide and well defined, and bright scarlet.
Entire justice has not been done to this species, regarding as praiseworthy
example the treatment of P. aracari, P. pluricinctus, and P. torquatus. Like
them, it heads a group of allies and affinities which seem to inhabit different
localities ; and in the specimens now before me I think I could set up a spe-
cies or two, as customs seem to prevail in this group. But having got through
the almost inextricable tangle of the preceding ten species, after a fashion, I
am quite demoralized, and very sure that no living man can remember the
species already described in this group, unless, like the gay young gentleman
who tied his cravat with such wonderful success, he gives his whole mind
to it.
Adult ,-f . Sides of the neck rich dark chestnut, whieli color continues into a wide, well
defined band on the neck behind; frequently, neck in front also chestnut. Head above,
and throat black, especially near the commencement of the yellow of the under parts (but
above frequently chestnut). Mack, wings and tail dark green. Rump scarlet; a wide band
on the abdomen scarlet ; other under parts pale greenish-yellow, mixed with scarlet on
the breast and under tail coverts." Tibia' dark chestnut, frequently mixed with green.
I '|>jn*r mandible yellow, with a wide band of black on the culmen in its basal three fourths,
and another at its base and near its cutting edge, of nearly the same, length. Under man-
dible black. Legs dark colored. ?. Like tiie male, but with the chestnut of the head
more extended.
Total length about 17 to 22 inches: wing r, to 7, tail r>}4 to 7, bill (chord 1 \% to r>]4 inches.
Hah. Northern and western South America, Itio Amazon (Lieut. Herndon 1, Para (Imp.
Mus. Hio de Janeiro), Peru (Mr. Gould).
This fine species is strongly characterized by the chestnut color of the neck,
throat and cheeks, but this color seems to be variable in extent, and in some
specimens now before me extends to the top of the head. The size of speci-
mens is also quite different, the smallest in the present collection being in
Capt. Page's collection from the Rio Parana, and labelled " Brazil," undoubt-
edly correct, and showing the most southern locality yet ascertained for this
species. These are both sexes in mature plumage, and so much smaller than
specimens from the Bio Amazon that they would easily make a species in
this group. Another specimen in the Acad. Mus., labelled 9> uas * l " head
1867.]
