112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
entirely chestnut, with only frontal and superciliary stripes black. Three
varieties of this species may be distinguished :
/'. caslanolis, a, castanotis. Larger ; head above black ; total length about 20
to 22 inches. Northern, Rio Amazon, Peru.
b, australis. Smaller; head above brownish-black ; total length
about 1G to 17 inches. Southern, Rio Parana.
c Entire head chestnut, with a frontal band and su-
perciliary stripes black. Locality unknown.
Perhaps young female of var. castanotis.
2. Grammarhynchus.
Genus Grammarhynchus, Gould, Monogr. Ramph. Intr. p. 2G (2d ed., 1854).
12. Pteroglosscs inscriptis, Swainson.
Pteroglossus inscriptis, Swains. Zool. 111. ii. p. (1820).
Pteroglossus scriptus, Temm. Man. d'Orn, i. p. 76 (1820).
Gould, Monogr. Ramph., 1st ed. pi. 23, 2d ed. pi. 23. Swains. Zool. 111. ii.
pi. 90.
This is the first of three species which form a sub-group of the genus
Pteroglossus ; all having the plumage dark green on the upper parts, and plain
greenish-yellow on the under parts, without the bands and spots which are
so conspicuous in the preceding sub-group, or typical 1'teroglossus. These
species resemble each other, but differ in size and other characters, especially
the colors and markings of the bills, and are without exception represented
with entire accuracy in Mr. Gould's Monograph of the Ramphastidae.
Adult (J. Small; bill with both mandibles yellow, tipped with black, the under mandible
black at base, and a wide longitudinal band on the culmen black. Both mandibles with
irregular black marks on their cutting edges (rather remotely resembling letters). Mead
and neck black; back, wings and tail dark green; rump scarlet; under parts of body
greenish-yellow or lemon-yellow; tibia; mixed with chestnut ; legs dark green.
" Adult ?. Throat and sides of the neck dark chestnut, otherwise like the male.
Young cf Bill dull yellow, with the hand on the culiiien dull brown and indistinct, and
tipped with dull brown. Head above black, throat chestnut; otherwise as in adult. Yellow
of the under parts with obscure spots of dull reddish.
Total length about 13 inches; wing \ l />, tail a'.J', bill (chord) 2% to 3V inches.
liah. Northern south America, Northern Brazil, "Guiana," "Para." Spec. in Mas. Acad.
Philada.
Distinguished from the succeeding by the under mandible being yellow in
a large middle space (the under mandible is entirely black in both of the
succeeding, P. Ilumboldlii and P. viridw). This is a common species in col-
lections, and of which numerous specimens are in Acad. Mus., but none of
them verv carefully labelled for locality, being only given as "Brazil" and
" Guiana!"
13. Pteroglossus Humroldtii, Wagler.
Pteroglossus Humboldtii, Wagl. Syst. Av. p. (1827).
Gould, Monogr. Ramph., 1st ed. pi. 22, 2d ed. pi. 22.
Resembles tie- preceding, /'. inscriptis, but i^ larger, and has the under mandible black.
Cutting edge of the upper mandible with irregular black marks, remotely resembling let-
ters. Tibia chestnut, and in some specimens tier'- are obscure marks t>f dull chestnut,
forming an imperfect and partially concealed band on the abdomen. Plumage in both
sexes as in the preceding.
Total length al I 15 to 17 inches; wing 5 to ''J. tail 6 to 6V bill (chord) a 1 .; to 4 inches.
Hah. Northern Brazil. "Upper Amazon," "MinasGerass, Peru, "Head waters ol the
Huallaga River." Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philadelphia, and Mus. Smiths. Washington,
Clearly distinguished from the preceding by its black under mandible.
Specimens in the extensive and valuable collection made by Mr. Walter S.
Church, from the head waters of the Huallaga River, Peru, are the largest,
and have a partial band on the abdomen, of chestnut, much more apparent
than in specimens from Mr. "Wallace's collections on the Upper Amazon. The
[Sept.
