116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
With this species we again enter upon a group resembling each other in
colors of plumage, but distinguished by different colors and markings of tbe
bills. All the species are smaller than in either of tbe preceding groups,
Ramphastos or Pteroglossus, and form apparently a natural and readily defined
group, probably generic. All the species are singularly alike in colors of
plumage, and are nearly of the same size. They are, without exception, repre-
sented with extraordinary accuracy in Mr. Gould's Monograph of the Family
Ramphastidie. The ear coverts are yellow in all known species of this group,
and present an immediately available generic character.
Adult r?. Bill pale bluish or greenish-white, darker on the culmen and at the base : up-
per mandible with about four or five irregular transverse bars ol black, the last oi which
(nearest the tip) extends to the under mandible also, forming a very distinct and nearly
perfect transverse band across both mandibles near the end. Head, neck and breast glossy
black ; ear coverts orange nearest the eye, pale yellow posteriorly. Narrow band of yellow
on the back of the neck; back, wings and tail dark olive-green, tinged somewhatwith
yellowish on the back and nun]). Flanks with a large spot of orange; abdomen yellowish-
green; under tail coverts scarlet. About six middle tail feathers, tipped with chestnut.
Feet greenish-brown.
Adult 9. Head, neck and breast reddish-chestnut; otherwise much as in the male.
Total length about 12 to 1:5 inches; wing 5 to 5] ,. tail 4'., to 5, bill (chord) 2% inches.
Bob. Central and eastern Brazil, Kio de Janeiro, St. Katharines, Bahia. Spec, in Mus.
Smiths. Washington, and Mus. Acad. Philada,
Abundance of specimens of this species in Smiths. Mus. and Acad. Mus.,
but not specially stating locality ; nor is there any specimen in young or im-
mature plumage. It is brought commonly from Brazil.
2. Selenidera Gouldii (Natterer).
Pteroglossus Gouldii, Natt. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1837, p. 44.
Gould, Monog. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 32. Icon. Av. pi. 7.
Much resembling the preceding, and about the same size, but with the basal half to two-
thirds of the upper mandible Mack (not with transverse bars or bands, as in that species,
S. maculirostris.) Under mandible with one transverse band near the tip. Large spaces
on the Hanks deeper orange.
$. Very nearly as in S. maetdirostris, but with the upper mandible black at base, as in the
male.
Total length 12 to 1?, inches.
Baft. Northern South America, Para, Rio Amazons. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada,
Easily distinguished by the black of the upper mandible, and inhabits
more northern regions of South America than S. maculirottris. Specimens in
Acad. Mus. labelled " Para" and " Rio Amazons," the latter from Mr. Wallace's
collections.
.3. Selenidera Langsdorffii (Wagler).
Pteroglossus Langsdorffii, Wagl. Syst. Av. (1827.)
Gould, Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 28, 2d ed. pi. 33.
Resembling the preceding two species, but with the bill entirely bluish-black, paler at
base, especially of the under mandible. Colors of the plumage much as in the preceding,
in both sexes.
Total Length about 12 to 13 inches.
Hob. Western South America. Peru, Amazon River (Lieut. Ilerndonl. Spec, in Smiths.
Mus. Washington, and Mus. Acad. Philada.
This species has the upper mandible uniform bluish-black or dark horn-
color, paler at base ; under mandible with the paler base extending to one-
lialf to two-thirds of its length, bluish-black in the terminal portion. Easily
distinguished from the two preceding or other species by these colors of the
bill. Lieut. Berndon's specimens in Smiths. Mus. are labelled "Amazon
River," but as he crossed the continent on the route of that river, they are
probably from its western or head waters. Other specimens in Acad. Mus.
arc from Peru.
4. Sk.lknidera Rbinwaedtii (Wagler).
Pteroglossus Iteinwanltii, Wagl. Syst. Av. (1827.)
Gould, Monog. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 26, 2d ed. pi. 34.
[Sept.
