2. PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
The following were elected correspondents :
Prof. O. C Marsh, New Haven, Conn., and Prof. Win. H. Brewer,
New Haven, Conn.
Pursuant to the By-Laws, an election of members of the Standing
Committees for the ensuing year was to be held, but was deferred until
the next meeting for business.
On favorable report of the committee the following paper was ordered
to be published :
On a new genus in HOMOPTERA, (Section Monomera.)
BY HENRY SHIMER, M. D.
Characters for a supposed new Family.
DACTYLOSPHJERIDJE, Sbimer.
Wings four, carried flat on the back in repose.
Antennae few, jointed.
Tarsi composed of one joint, terminated by two claws, and from two to
six digituli.*
Honey-tubes none ; otherwise resembling Aphidse.
DACTYLOSPHiERA. New genus.f
Male Anterior wing with one one-branched discoidal. and a stigmatic
nervure ; posterior wing with no discoidal.
Female Apterous, body thick, clumsy, subellipsoidal.
Common Characters Antennae 3-4 jointed. Tarsi, six digituli. Promuscis
sheath four-jointed,
Dactylospovkra olobosum, n. sp.
Inhabits galls on the Pig-nut Hickory, (Carya glabra.)
Male Abdomen and prothorax orange-yellow; mesothorax, head and eyes,
blackish ; legs and antenna? dark cinereous. Wings hyaline, broad, some-
what overlapping as they lie horizontally on the back. Anterior wing, even-
<
* I suggest this name, digituli. from the L;itin diffitlllus, a small finger or toe, for these
remarkable organs; it appears to me appropriate, because tbey are arranged around the foot
somewhat like the toes of an animal.
A. B.
A. a side view of the foot of Df ritifolim magnified; a, the
two digituli; b, the claws.
B. a verticil view of the foot Of DadytotpkKtU gloibosUM, from above, magnified :
tUffitvli; b. the claws, as they may be seen while the insect attempts to walk on the
of a microscope.
a.
a. the six
glass plate
C. the promuscis sheath of
/). globostem.
D. Dpper and under wing of
DactyloMmsara f vitifditt great-
ly magnified. This figure was
drawn from the only specimen
I have remaining, (from the Clinton grape gall.) The dotted lines in the anterior wing are what
I saw under the microscope in the recent specimen; the shading between the costal and mo-
il nerve}.- represent! a ban appearance, as I saw it under the microscope, The vein in the
posterior wing is very obscure, but I saw it with an excellent simple lens.
t From <Ta*TW.oc, a finger or toe, snd 0-9 <]>*, a globe, on account of the slender globe-ended
appendages of the tarsi, digituli.
[Jan.
