NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121
Frequently received in Bogota collections, and several specimens in Acad.
Mas. are labelled " Columbie " in Mr Verreaux's hand-writing. Much resem-
bling the two preceding, especially A . prasinus, but easily recognized by its
white band at the base of the bill. The black portion of the under mandible
is also much wider.
9. AULACORAMPHUS ATROGULARIS (Sturm).
Pteroglossusatrogularis, Sturm ed. Gould's Mon. Ramph. (not paged, 1845).
Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 50.
Throat black. Upper part of upper mandible yellow, lower part black ; upper mandible
with a line of white at base, frequently tinned with yellow, or with a line of white and an-
other of yellow at base. Under mandible black, with a wide line of white at base, some-
times tinged with yellow. Colors generally as in A.prasinus and A. bivittalus.
Total length 12}/, to 15 inches.
Bab. Western South America, "Peru, Ecuador" (Mr. Gould), " Columbie " (Mr. Ver-
reaux's label). Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada.
The peculiarity of this species is the black throat, which character is strongly
defined in two specimens in Acad. Mus., but in one other the throat is black,
tinged and edged with blue. This specimen is, however, evidently not adult.
10. AULACORAMPHUS C^RULEOGULARIS, Gould.
Aulacoramphus casruleogularis, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1853, p.
45.
Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 51.
Throat and cheeks blue. Upper mandible with a wide transverse band of reddish-chest-
nut at base, and also a longitudinal band ot black in the basal one-third of the eulmen.
Upper part of upper mandible yellow, lower part black ; under mandible black ; a wide line
at base of hill yellow in upper mandible, wider and white in the lower mandible. Inferior
tail coverts chestnut; all the tail feathers tipped with chestnut. Entire other plumage
grass-green, strongly tinged with golden on the head, and with yellow on the abdomen.
Legs bluish-brown.
Total length about 12)4 to 14 inches ; wing 4% to 5, tail 4^g, bill (chord) 1M to 3 inches.
"Iris black, length 14 inches" (Dr. A von Frantzius). "Iris brown, length 14J4 inches"
(Mr. J. Carmiol). " ?, length 13 inches."
Bab. Costa Rica, " Bems," "La Palma," "San Jose" (Dr. A. von Franzius), "Dota,"
" Barranca," " Turrialba " (Mr. J. Carmiol), Veragua (Mr. Gould). Spec, in Mus. Smiths.
Washington.
Numerous specimens in the Smiths. Coll., exclusively from Costa Rica. This
species strongly resembles the immediately preceding, A. atrogularis, but has
the throat blue instead of black, and the plumage of the head is glossed with
golden yellow, and in other respects it is quite distinct and easily recognized.
Seems to be the most abundant species of Toucan inhabiting Costa Rica.
11. Aulacoramphus cyanoljemus, Gould.
Aulacoramphus cyanolaemus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1866, p. 24.
"Male. Bill black, with a small mark of yellow at the tip of the upper mandible, and a
band of white at the base of both mandibles, except on the eulmen; this white baud is
much narrower on the upper than on the under mandible, and moreover has the posterior
half of its breadth pale yellow. Naked skin around the eyesdull red ; throat grayish-blue,
approaching to violet, and becoming of a deeper tint where it joins the green of the neck ;'
a tinge of blue also appears at the base of the ear coverts, towards 'the bill, and over the
eye, where, however, it becomes of a greener hue. Plumage of the head ami body deep
grass-green, with a wash of yellow on the flanks ; primaries black, edged with brown ; un-
der surface of the wing pale yellow; tail feathers deep green, conspicuously tipped with
chestnut; under tail coverts chestnut-brown; lctrs green?'
"Total length of male 12 inches; bill 2%, wing 5^j tail 5] X. tarsi l^."
"Female. Precisely similar in color, but, as is the case wfth all the other species of the
genus, much smaller than the male."
"If ih. Loxa in Ecuador."
"Remark. This well marked species is allied to the Aulacnrumphi/s en rnU'igularil of Pana-
ma and the A. atrigularisof Peru, but differs from the former in the smaller extent o( 1,| 1 10
on the throat, from tic latter in having 110 trace of black on that part, and from both in the
markings of the bill." (Mr. Gould.)
This is Mr. Gould's description, but the species is unknown to me.
1867.]
