122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
V. Genus ANDIGENA, Gould.
Genus Andigena, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 18a.O, p. 93.
1. Andigena.
1. Andigena hypoglaucus (Gould).
Pteroglossus hypoglaucus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1833, p. 70.
Gould, Mon. Ramph. 1st ed. pi. 19, 2d ed. pi. 38.
Bill with its basal one-half yellow, enclosing a nearly triangular spot of black near the
base; terminal portion of upper mandible red ; terminal portion of the under mandible
black. Head above black; back and wing coverts reddish-brown; rump yellow; outer
webs of quills dark green. Under parts and hand around the neck light blue or bluish-
gray; tibiae chestnut; under tail coverts scarlet; tail greenish-black, the lour middle
feather- tipped with chestnut; legs bluish-brown.
Total length 17 to 18 inches; wing i: 1 .,. tail 6>4 to 7, bill 4 inches.
7/./ .Western South America, Peru (Hon. Jf. Randolph Clay), "Columbie" (Mr. J. Ver-
reaux's label;. Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada.
This is an oddly colored species, two specimens of which in the Acad. Mus.
are all that I have seen. One specimen in excellent plumage is in the inter-
esting collection made by the Hon. .lohn Randolph Clay in Peru, while Minis-
ter of the United States to that country; and the other was received from the
establishment of the Messrs. Verreaux, Paris. These specimens have the bills
differing somewhat in size and length, but are otherwise quite similar.
This is the type of a very peculiar group, certainly of generic value, and so
described and named as above by that great naturalist, Mr. John Gould, of
London. All of the known species are of rather plain but grotesque and tiddly
arranged colors. This lot is evidently what my Lamented and accomplished
friend and associate, the late Dr. Wilson, was accustomed to call " the eccentric
type " of the Toucans.
2. Andigena laminirostris, Gould.
Andigena laminirostris, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. Loudon, 1850, p. 93.
Gould, Mon. Ramph. 2d ed. pi. 37.
Bill with a raised plate or lamina of yellow in its basal half; hand at base of bill red,
other parts of bill, black. A large spoi on each flank orange-yellow. Head above and neck
behind black ; back and wings light brown or snuff-color ; rump greenish-yellow. Under
parts light blue; tibise dark chestnut; under tail coverts scarlet; tail bluish-black, the four
middle leathers tipped with chestnut ; leu- bluish-brown.
Total length al t is inches; wing >'.. to 7. tail <;'.. to 7, bill 3% inches
Hob Ecuador (Hon. Charles R. Buekalew). Spec, in Mus! "Acad. Philada. and Mils.
Smiths. Washington.
Strongly characterized by the curious raise. 1 plate in the basal half of the
upper inaudible. The colors of the plumage ill this .strange Toucan resemble
those ot' i lie preceding, A. hypoglaucus, but differ entirely in the bill, and in the
present bird there is no extension of the color of the under parts around the
neck behind, and it has Large spots of orange on the Hanks.
The fine collection made in Ecuador by thai accomplished gentleman and
statesman, the Hon. Charles II. Iiuckalew, late Minister of the United Slate- to
that country, and now United States Senator from Pennsylvania, contained
severa' excellent specimens of this curious bird, very similar in their colors
and other characters. Mr. Buckalew's collection was presented by him to the
Smithsonian Institution.
3. Andigena odcullatus (Gould).
Pteroglossus cucullatus, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 184G, p. C9.
Gould. Mon. Ramp. 2d ed. pi. 40.
Much resembling .1 ht/pogl lueus, but with the bill yellow in its basal two-thirds and black
in its terminal one-third; under mandible with a black spot near its base. Tail hi aide (not
tipped with chestnut . Plumage nearly as in A. hypoglaueus.
Total length ahoiit Is inches.
Hat. Bolivia Spec, (n Brit. Mus. London.
This species is not in an\ American collection, to my knowledge, and seems to
[Sept.
