NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 125
October 1st.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Twenty-three members present.
Dr. Leidy exhibited specimens of black hornstone, a variety of basa-
nite, from the limestone of Easton, Pa., and observed that he had
suspected it was of organic origin. Low microscopic power exhibits
in tbis hornstone a composition resembling oolite.
October Sth.
Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-four members present.
October 15th.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty-five members present.
The following was presented for publication :
tl Notes on a Collection of Mammals from Arizona." By Elliott
Coues, M. D., U. S. A.
Prof. Holmes, of Charleston, exhibited specimens of remains of
extinct and recent animals, accompanied by bones of man, together
with pottery, stone arrow-heads and hatchets, which he observed were
obtained from the post-pliocene strata in the neighborhood of
Charleston.
Dr. Wood made some remarks on a fresh-water alga from the thermal
springs in Mono Co., Cal., which was said to grow in water having a
temperature of irom 120 136 F.
October 22d.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Twenty-three members present.
The following papers were presented for publication :
"Notes on a Collection of Californian Myriapoda, with the descrip-
tion of a new Lithobiid from Illinois." By Horatio C. Wood, Jr..
M D.
" Note on Geotrygon sylvatica. Go.sc." By Richard Hill.
Abstract of a verbal communication to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,
2'^d Oct., 13G7, by Benj. Smith Lyman.
On the Great CARBONIFEROUS CONGLOMERATE in Sullivan County, Pa.
It has been hitherto supposed that the Great Conglomerate, or Formation No.
XII, at the bottom of the coal measures, thinned away so rapidly northwest-
ward from a thickness of twelve hundred feet near Mauch Chunk, that il had a
thickness of only a hundred feet on the northern edge of the Wyoming Valley,
and still less in the First Bituminous Coal Basin north-west of that A recent
examination of exposures in the First Bituminous Coal Basin, on tl i Berwick
and Towanda Turnpike, in the eastern part of Sullivan County, some thirty
miles north-west of Wilkesbarre, and twenty-five from the nearest anthracite
1867.]
