NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 129
S. inermis, sp. nov.
S. aurantiaca; corpore valile depresso, antico modice angustato ; capite mo-
dice magno; segtnento cephalico triaagulare, modLce lato ; antennis brevibus,
submoniliformibus, baud acuminatis ; mandibulis parvis, baud denticulatis
sternis depressione medianainstructis ; pedibus crassis, brevibus, utrinque 115;
scutis brevibus sine suturis.
Tbe labium is strongly narrowed posteriorly by the very large basal joint of
the mandible encroaching on it. In general appearance this species closely
resembles G. tseniopsis, Wood, from which it is separated by the wide disparity
of the number of joints. The coxie of last pair of feet are not pitted.
Ilab. Santa Cruz Mountains, California.
Gen. POLYDESMUS.
P. Haydenianus, Wood.
Specimens from tbe Santa Cruz Mountains, agreeing well with the published
description.
P. dissectcs, sp. nov.
P. olivaceus? ; scuto anale parvo, triangulare ; appendicibus masculis maxi-
mis ; spina terminale magna, robusta, intra pilosa, ultima in spiuulis 4 secta.
The specimens which I have seen have either lost their color from long con-
tact with alcohol, or else are individuals which have recently shed their skins.
The pattern of coloration is therefore not to be made out with certainty. The
lateral laminae evidently differ in color from the remainder of tbe scutum. The
male genital appendages are large. They are robust and very hairy. The ter-
minal spines are robust, and so placed at right angles to the rest of the part as
to be nearly horizontal and anteriorly divergent. They are furnished on their
inner surface with numerous long rigid hairs. Each spine in its distal third is
divided into two parts, and the upper of these (the one nearest the body) con-
sists of a short, robust, curved process, which is opposed to the lower part much
as the thumb is to the fingers. The lower division is much the larger, ami is
terminated by a short, inconspicuous, blunt proce'ss and three spines ; of the
latter, the lowermost is broad, thin, obtuse, and as it were twisted on itself; the
other two are sub-cylindrical, acute and simply curved, tbe larger of them is
slightly sabre-shaped.
This species belongs in the group Fontaria.
Hub, Fort Tejon.
Gen. SPIROBOLUS.
S. UNCIGERCS, Wood.
A number of specimens, agreeing well with the published description, ex-
cepting that they are much darker in color.
Ilab. San Jose, Fort Tejon.
Gen. JULUS.
J. Oregonensis, Wood.
Hab. Fort Tejon, San Jose.
Gen. CRYPTOPS.
C. asperipes, sp. nov.
C. aurantiacus; antennis 19 articulatis; pedibus postremis dilute aurantia-
cis, modice robustis, longissimis, spinulis acutis nigris numerossimis armatis ;
appendicibus analibus lateralibus truucatis, profunde punctatis, spinulis pau-
cis instructis.
Long., unc I.
The color of this strange little animal is orange, mostly somewhat deeper on
tbe head and lighter on the feet. The labium is convex, rather short, and
edentate. The mandibles very long. The cephalic segment has a dark, more
or less concentric marking. The scuto-episcutal sutures are well marked, and
there is in many specimens a central line. The antenna; have 19 joints each,
1867.J 9
