130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
and the latter are so short and broad that they are almost moniliform. The
hindmost two or three pairs of feet are roughened by small black acute spines,
which are especially pronounced on their femora and tibiae. The last pair are
very much longer than any of the others and. when preserved in alcohol, the
last three joints are bent into the form of a triangle, so that the terminal claw
rests on the tibiae-tarsal articulation, pointing inwards ; the femora and tibiae
are almost covered with the very numerous black spines. In most specimens
there is a sharp black spinule on the upper posterior angle of the lateral anal
appendages. I am indebted to Prof. Leidy for my specimens of this species.
He caught them in the woods on the Alleghanies of Montgomery County, Vir-
ginia.
Gen. LITHOBIUS.
L. BILABIATUS, Sp. nOV.
L. brunneus ; segmento cephalico sparse leviter punctato. late subcordato,
margine postico elevato ; antennis modice longis, nonnihil pubescentibus ;
ocellis utrinque 13; labio antice producto, sine laminis dentalibus distinctis,
cum lateribus sejunctis usque ad basem ; dentibus sejunctis 4 6; scntorum
marginibus posticis rectis, angulis baud productis ; pedum pare postremo in
mare magno, processibus magnis duobus utrinque arm at o.
The general color of this species is a dark brown, with the labium and feet
lighter, somewhat approaching ferruginous. In the male the last segment with
its appendages is much lighter than the rest of the body. The cephalic seg-
ment is very broad in the male, much broader than the anterior portion of the
body. The labium is produced forward in such a way that there are no dis-
tinct dental lamina?. The two halves are separated or merely joined by a mem-
brane almost to their base. Anteriorly they are very close to one another, but
then separate so as to make an elliptical opening closed by a thin membrane
and a little ligula-like process projecting on the superior portion. The styliform
appendages of the anal segment appear to be wanting in the male. The mar-
gins of the scuta are remarkably straight, the angles generally rounded, so that
they are not all emarginate. The feet generally are robust and somewhat
compressed. In the male the hindmost ones are very large, the coxae short, the
thigh short with the distal internal angle prolonged into a well-pronounced
process surmounted by numerous spines; the next joint is large, with a long,
robust, curved process projecting inwards from its proximal third, and also a
small, nearly cylindrical one on its distal inner angle.
In the female the next to last pair of feet is larger than those anterior to it ;
the last pair long, cylindrical, still larger, without processes, but with numerous
spines on the enlarged distal end of the thigh. I am indebted to the well-
known entomologist, Mr. Walsh, of Hock Island, Illinois, for a male and
female of this species, by whom they were captured in the vicinity of his
home.
Length, f an inch.
Note on GEOTEYGON SYLVATICA, Gosse.
BY RICHARD HILL.
(Communicated by Thomas Bland, New York.)
Spanish Town, Jamaica, 1th June, 1867.
To Thomas Bland, Esq.:
My Dear Sir: In examining, the other day, our large ground dove, found
only in solitary places in our mountain forests, (the bird familiar to you by
the name of the mountain witch, but so named less from the beauty of it's
coloring than from its mysterious movements moaning in the underwood,) it
Btruck me that, in habits and contour, it had an apparent relation to the ex-
tinct Dodo, the Didut ineptut of naturalists. A careful examination of the only
remains of the Dodo, the head and foot in the British Museum, establishes
[Oct.
