NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 131
that it was one of the Columbidai. Our mountain ground dove is the Geotry-
gon sylvatica of Gosse. Its habits are solitary ; it is of a thick, heavy form ;
seldom seen on the wing; feeds on the ground, and has a moaning coo.
The Geotrygon sylvatica varies in plumage from light bright tints to a sombre
blending of bronze and claret-purple. It is drab colored on the head, varying
from blue to dull yellow. The feathers fall into a kind of hood, and the
plumage of the breast to the legs is edged so as to appear scaled. A scaled
feathering prevails in all the under plumage. It resembles in this peculiarity
the Carpophaga of Eastern Australia; a style of feathering rare in doves, but
characterizing the Dodo. Our bird is such a lover of solitude that it is seldom
seen ; few know its habits, beyond the lonely moaning and the uncertain
movements that render the tracing of it difficult in the forest.
Our bird is the largest of our doves ; as big as a pullet. The bill has con-
siderable curvature and fleshiness, large and strong. It would be easy, by
studied exaggeration of the rounded heavy contour, with the pigeon beak, and
the dumpy goose-shape, to make out the Dodo-form, between the figures of
Bontius and Leguat. We have only to elevate it into its habitual stride, and
we have the stateliness and grace in Leguat's description of the solitary bird
of the Island of Rodrigo. That description is just our mountain-witch, grown
to the size of a turkey.
Our bird is noticeable for its rasorial scratching, if that habit be correctly
reported. It is said to take in occasionally such molluscous food as the snail.
with the eggs of termites. Mr. Gosse's information relative to mollusks is
very precise. He detected the snail among the contents of its craw. This is
a great deviation from the pigeon character. Pigeon food only varies from
grain by the occasional mixture of the young shoots of such succulent herbage
as turnip tops.
Sir Hans Sloane has in his manuscript notes an observation made by L'Es-
trange on the living Dodo. It is introduced as an annotation by Wilkins in
Pickering's edition of Sir Thomas Brown's " Vulgar Errors." " About 1638 as I
walked London streets I saw the picture of a strange fowle hong out upon a cloth.
vas* and myselfe with one or two more Gent, in company went in to see
it. It was kept in a chamber, and was a great fowle somewhat bigger than the
largest Turkey Cock and so legged and footed, but stouter and thicker, and of
a more erect shape, coloured before like the breast of a young cock Fisan
(pheasant) and on the back of dunn or deare colour. The keeper called it a
Dodo and in the ende of a chimney in the chamber there lay a heape of large
pebblestones whereof hee gave it many in our sight, some as big as nutmegs."
Yours, &c, Richard Hill.
November bth.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty-twn members present.
Prof. E. D. Cope presented to the Academy specimens of four extinct species
of Mammalia, which were discovered by Jas. T. Thomas, in the Miocene de-
posits of the Yorktown epoch in Charles Co., Maryland.
The first was a species of the genus Eschrichtius, to which the recent hump-
back whale is allied, of a species not previously known. It was called E.
cephalus Cope. The remains preserved were a considerable portion of the
muzzle, both rami of the mandible, several vertebrae, and a considerable-
number of pieces of the hand, with ulna, humerus, etc. Other specimens,
previously presented to the Academy, probably belonging to the same species,
were some cervical and dorsal vertebra", portions of cranium aud os petrosum
* The name is in part erased, perhaps it was Gervas, for Gervas Hollis, the antiquary.
1867.]
