132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
from Yorktown, Va., and os petrosum from Tarboro', N. Ca. The mandibular
rami measured 9 ft. 4 in. and were referred to an individual 31 ft. long. They
were compressed, and with a narrow superior ridge, without nutritive foramina.
The hitherto known Miocene Whales Balaena p r i s c a and B. p a 1 a e a t-
1 a n t i c a of Leidy founded on portions of the mandibular rami, were much
less compressed, were furnished with numerous marginal nutritive foramina,
and the B. p r i s c a was without superior ridge. The anterior cervical ver-
tebrae were transverse quadrate. The arms were much shorter relatively
than the recent M. 1 o n g i m a n a and M. o s p h y i a of the American coast.
Mandible with a low coronoid process.
The second, named Rhabdosteuslatiradix Cope, was a peculiar genus near
the Delphinidaj, allied to Priscodelphinus Leidy, and perhaps Platanista of the
Ganges. Characteristic of it was a muzzle formed of the usual elements
but entirely cylindrical, the alveolar series approximated underneath, and
ceasing near the middle. Beyond this the muzzle was prolonged like a cylin-
drical beak of a sword fish, or Coelorhynchus, and probably much farther
than the mandible. Alveola; longitudinal fragmentary specimens of this
muzzle had been found by the discoverer 2-5 feet in length.
Thirdly, a fragment of the muzzle, including the proximal portions of the
maxillary bones, with molars, and the canine teeth of the Squalodon ATLAS -
ticus (Leidy). As the Miocene representative of the larger species of the
Eocene period, it was shown to possess a close affinity to the Miocene Squa-
lodon grateloupii (Gerv.) of Malta and France. The double serration
of the molars and their deeply divided compressed fangs were features in which
it differed from its congener.
Squalodon mento Cope was characterized from four molar teeth, which
were between two and three time as large as those belonging to the Squalodon
w y m a n ii (Phoca of Leidy) with similar short incurved crowns, but much
more rugose. One molar had a smooth compressed fang, which was little
curved and with groove on each side. The fangs of the others were weathered,
not grooved, curved and acute.
November \2.th.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty- two members present.
The following was presented for publication :
An addition to the Vertebrate Fauna of the Miocene Period of the
Uuited States. By Edward D. Cope.
The death of Prof. Michael Faraday, correspondent, was announced.
Dr. Le Conte made remarks, illustrated by specimens, upon the
tertiary coal-beds of New Mexico, in the vicinity of the Rocky Moun-
tains, and upon the cretaceous coal-beds of the Rio Grande Valley.
Roth regions were regarded by him as capable of supplying abundaut
fuel for railroads, metallurgic and manufacturing purposes. He also
mentioned beds of lignite coal, in the vicinity of Denver, of great thick
ness from 11 to 16 feet free from impurities.
November \{\th.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty-four members present.
[Nov.
