6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not sufficient mathematical genius to greatly improve; for thousands
of observations made to increase the accuracy of the tables of the
motions of the sun and planets; for catalogues of the position and
brilliancy of the fixed stars; and last and not least, for keeping the
lamp of learning burning in their great schools, or universities, in
Spain and elsewhere during the centuries from the eighth to the fif-
teenth. Since the time of the Greek schools of Alexandria the home
of the exact sciences has been successively in Bagdad, Cordova, Seville,
Tangiers, Bokhara and Samarkand. It was only in the sixteenth
century that they were firmly domiciled in christian Europe.
Even in the shortest sketch it is necessary to point out that a great
part of the astronomical learning of the Moorish schools was due to
Jews; and that it is to orientals and not to Europeans that we owe
the earliest recognition of the fundamental truth that all sound pro-
gress in astronomy must be based on actual and continued observation
of the places of the heavenly bodies; that theory must be based upon
practise. It is usual to credit this insight to Tycho Brahe, and it is
certain that his greatest claim to our gratitude is based upon a thor-
ough recognition of the fact that until observations have shown us
exactly how the planets move we can form no adequate theories to
account for their motions. But the astronomers of India and Persia
in the ninth and tenth centuries thoroughly understood this funda-
mental notion, as did Ulugh Beg (1393-1449) at Samarkand, and they
invented means to obtain observations of adequate accuracy and in
sufficient number.
The need for more observations and for greater precision was also
fully realized by Purbach as early as 1450. Eegiomontanus returned
from Italy in 1471 to set up in Nuremberg an observatory for the
especial purpose of correcting the Alphonsine tables, which Purbach
and himself had found to be so defective a score of years earlier.
Landgrave Wilhelm IV of Cassel and his astronomers were working
in the same direction in Tycho s time. It is Tycho s merit that he
was the first in Europe to create instruments of sufficient power, and
to use them with exceeding diligence over a long series of years.
There was little knowledge in Denmark of what was doing in the
orient. Tycho s plans were made quite independently of the further
east. At the same time Europe touched the orient closely, through
Venice, and sent many of her sons to study at Moorish schools; and
it is not conceivable that Tycho was entirely ignorant of the details of
the work done, a century and a half before his time, in Samarkand.
The debt of Europe to the remoter east has never yet been fully
reckoned out. For thirty centuries the culture of the orient has, in
one way or another, created, informed or modified our own. The
religion, the learning, the art, the architecture of the east have most
