;
96
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
air, to travel at speeds higher than
any with which we are familiar.
The secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution should be the representa-
tive of American science and should
be extremely careful not to do any-
thing that may lend itself to an inter-
pretation that will bring injury on the
scientific work of the government or
of the country. Dr. Langley has
stated that for the commercial and
practical development of the idea it is
probable that the world may look to
others. We think that it would
have been better if the secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution had adhered
to this resolution and had not spent
large sums on secret experiments for
the War Department. He could have
placed his scientific knowledge at the
disposal of army officers and expert
mechanicians, and this would have
been better than to attempt to become
an inventor in a field where success is
.doubtful and where failure is likely to
bring discredit, however undeserved,
on scientiiic work.
SCIENTIFIC ITEMS.
Professor Alexander Bain, for
many years professor of logic in the
University of Aberdeen, died on Sep-
tember 17, at the age of eighty-five
years. Dr. Bain was the author of an
important series of books on psychol-
ogy, logic and English. His works on
The Senses and the Intellect, in 1855,
and The Emotions and the Will, in
1859, in many ways laid the founda-
tions of modern scientific psychology.
Dr. W. a. Notes, of the Rose Poly-
technic Institute, has accepted the posi-
tion of chemist in the National Bureau
of Standards. — Professor J. Mark
Baldwin, of Princeton University, has
been called to organize a graduate de-
partment of philosophy and psychology
at the Johns Hopkins University. —
Dr. T. H. Montgomery, Jr., assistant
professor of zoology at the University
uf Pennsylvania, has been appointed to
the professorship of zoology in the Uni-
versity of Texas, vacant by the re-
moval of Professor \\\ M. Wheeler to
the American Museum of Natural His-
tory. Dr. Herbert S. Jennings, assist-
ant professor of zoology at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, and now at
Naples, has been called to the as-
sistant professorship of zoology at the
University of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Robert E. Peary has been given
three years leave of absence from the
navy to continue his Arctic explora-
tions. His plan contemplates the con-
struction of a strong wooden ship with
powerful machinery, in which he will
sail next July to Cape Sabine and,
after establishing a sub-base there,
force his way northward to the north-
ern shore of Grant Land, where he will
spend the winter with a colony of
Whale Sound Esquimaux, who will
be taken there by him from their homes
further south. This winter base will
be at or in the vicinity of Cape Co-
lumbia or Cape Joseph Henry, situated
about the 82d degree of north latitude.
The new medical buildings and labo-
ratories of Toronto University were
officially opened on October 1. The
opening address was given by Professor
Charles S. Sherrington, of Liverpool.
Speeches were made by representatives
of various institutions, and an address
in the evening was made by Professor
William Osier, of the Johns Hopkins
University. A special convocation was
held on October 2, at which the fol-
lowing visitors received the honorary
degree of LL.D. from the university:
William Williams Keen, Jefferson Med-
ical College, Philadelphia; William
Henry Welch, Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity; William Osier, Johns Hopkins
University; Russell Henry Chittenden,
Yale University; Charles S. Sherring-
ton, University of Liverpool; Henry
Pickering Bowditch, Harvard Univer-
sity.
/
