98 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in the case of the armadillo, Tatusa hyhrida of Paraguay. The eight
to eleven young of each birth are always of the same sex. This occurs
also, it is said, in another species, Tatusa novemcinta. In the latter
case it was found by Jehring that all the embryos of one birth are
enveloped in a common chorion, although each has its own separate
placenta. It is probable that these embryos are the product of a single
egg that has become separated during the early stages of segmentation
into as many parts as there are embryos produced. That separated
blastomeres or cells are capable of giving rise to whole embryos has
been demonstrated experimentally in recent years for a number of
animals.
The following discovery also bears on the same question. A
hymenopterous insect, a chalcid bee, Encrytus fiLScicollis, lays one or
two eggs in the egg of a caterpillar that is to become the host. The
egg of the parasite develops inside the body of the young caterpillar,
not into a single embryo, as is the rule, but into a chain of embryos. As
many as a hundred embryos may come from the same egg, all united in
a common amnion. It has been observed that the bees that emerge
from the same caterpillar are frequently of the same sex. Thus in
twenty-one observations the progeny was in fourteen cases all of the
same sex. In the remaining seven cases both males and females
appeared. In the former it is probable that only a single egg had been
laid in the egg of the butterfly, and in the latter more than one egg
may have been deposited.
One of the earliest and most important of the recent memoirs that
have attempted to show that the sex of the individual is determined in
the egg is that of Cuenot.* This paper deserves first place not only
because in point of time it precedes the others to be mentioned, but
also because the author has undertaken a considerable number of
important experiments that bear on the problem of the determination
of sex.
It had been claimed that when young caterpillars are poorly
nourished they give rise to a larger number of males, and conversely,
when well nourished to a great majority of females. The experiment
was first carried out by Landois, and later confirmed by Giard, Treat
and Gentry. On the other hand, Eiley found that starved caterpillars,
as well as those abundantly supplied with nourishment, give both
male and female individuals with no greater disproportion in numbers
than ordinarily exists. Other observers have recorded similar results.
Furthermore, a number of investigators have shown that the sex of
the young insect is already determined at the time when it emerges
from the egg and even some time before that event. Brocadellos
* Bulletin Scientifique de la France et de la Belgique, XXXII., October,
1899.
