loo POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
by Lowne that individuals from the large maggots that have been well
nourished are nearly always females, while those from small maggots,
poorly nourished, are usually males. Cuenot first determined, in the
three genera used in his experiments, that normally the number of
males and of females is about the same. The results of his experi-
ments, in which the maggots were well fed, were as follows — in Lucilia
ccesar 49.27 per cent, of females; in Calliphora vomitoria 51.02 per
cent, of females; and in Sarcophaga carnaria 51.62 per cent, of females.
It is obvious that the presence of an abundance of food did not produce
an excess of females. In another experiment in which the maggots
received as small a quantity of food as possible there was great mortality
and the pupae were of diminutive size. The results were as follows —
Lucilia ccesar 57.92 per cent, of females; Calliphora vomitoria 57.92
per cent, of females; and Curtonerva pabulorum 26 females and 17
males. It is even more evident from the results of this experiment
that starving does not have the effect of producing an increase in the
number of males. Several variations of these experiments were made,
but the results were always the same. Cuenot also tried to find out if
the amount of food taken by the individual during its growth has any
effect on the kinds of eggs that are produced. The larva? of Calliphora
vomitoria were starved from their birth until they pupated. They
gave rise to twelve males and five females, whose size was scarcely half
that of the normal individuals. These dwarf flies, confined in a cage
with sweetened water and meat, laid twenty times. The larvae that
hatched were kept in a well-nourished condition, and gave rise to 359
females and 353 males. The results show that the amount of food
supplied to the young maggots had no effect upon the relative number
of male and female eggs that they produced. It is true that these
animals, when poorly nourished, gave rise to only a few eggs, but the
relative number of eggs that became male or female remained the
same.
Among the earliest experiments that were carried out to show
whether the sex of the individual could be determined by external condi-
tions were those of Born in 1881, and of Yung in 1883 and 1885. Born
tried to show that more male frogs develop when the fluid containing
the fertilizing spermatozoa is more concentrated, but this conclusion
has been shown to be wrong. Born also fed the tadpoles of Rana
iemporariu on a rich diet consisting of water plants and of the flesh of
frogs and of tadpoles. A large percentage of females developed which
Born attributed to the abundance of food. It was shown, however, by
Pfliiger in the following year, 1882, that Boms conclusion was
erroneous, because, even under normal conditions, female frogs are
more numerous. Pfliiger found that the normal proportions of females
to males is often as high as five to one ; and this corresponds also to the
