102 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
fed) there were 51 females and 57 males (and 8 not differentiated).
The i^roportionate number of females to males in all the tadpoles
reared in these experiments is not different from that which Cuenot
determined in nature. He concludes from his results that the sex of
the frog is not influenced by the external conditions (especially of
food) to which the tadpoles are subjected.
Pigeons have also furnished some interesting facts in regard to
problem of sex. From the time of Aristotle it has been recognized
that of the two eggs laid in each batch one generally produces a male
and the other a female. Nevertheless numerous exceptions have been
recorded in which both individuals were of the same sex. Cuenot
himself found in eight sets that in two instances there were two
males; in two instances there were two females, and in five instances
there was a male and a female.* It has been claimed moreover, and
the tradition also goes back to the time of Aristotle, that the first egg
laid gives rise to a male and the second to the female. Flourens con-
firmed this fact for eleven sets, and Cuenot found the same result.
The meaning of this is obscure, for it may be that a male Qgg is first
set free, or that the conditions to which the first egg that is laid is
subjected are such that it becomes a male. The former interpreta-
tion may appear to be the more probable, but it is not conclusively
established by the facts.
Although many statistics have been brought together in regard to
the determination of sex in man and in other mammals there is no con-
vincing evidence showing that external factors determine the sex of
the embryo; and, as has been pointed out, there is strong evidence
pointing in the opposite direction.
If we turn now to some of the lower animals we shall find that
there are a few indisputable cases in which it has been shown that
the sex of the individual is predetermined in the Qgg. It was dis-
covered by Korschelt that two kinds of eggs are produced by a small
worm, Dinophilus apatris, and that the larger eggs develop, after
fertilization, into females and the smaller into males. The females
are about 1.2 mm. long, while the males are only 0.04 mm. long. The
males are degenerate in structure; they are less numerous than the
females, and live only ten days, whereas the females live a month or
more.
A similar difference in the size of the eggs that produce males and
females is found in certain rotifers, in Hydatina senta for example.
In this species there are three kinds of females distinguished by the
different kinds of eggs that they lay. One lays large eggs which
without fertilization produce females. Another lays small eggs, less
rich in j^olk than the last, and these eggs, also without being fertilized,
* Tliere is here probably a misprint since 2 + 2 + 5 equal nine.
