THE DETERMINATION OF SEX. 103
produce males. A third kind of female produces the winter eggs,
which are fertilized by the males and give rise to females. In this
rotifer the sex of the egg is determined while the egg is still in the
ovary, and Nussbaum has made the important discovery that the
amount of nourishment taken by a young female, between the time of
her emergence from the Qgg and the deposition of her first egg, deter-
mines which kind of eggs she will subsequently produce. If she has
been well nourished in this interval she produces eggs that become
females, but if poorly nourished she produces male eggs. After the
eggs have been once formed no subsequent change of food or of tem-
perature can alter the kind of eggs that are produced. It has not been
determined why some females produce parthenogenetic eggs and other
females winter eggs that are to be fertilized. Nussbaimi thinks that
the effect of an early union with a male, combined with insufficient
nourishment during the first hours of free life, determine that winter
eggs are to be produced.
Amongst crustaceans and insects there are several instances known
in which the sex of the individual appears to be connected with certain
kinds of eggs. The water fleas, or daphnids, produce during the sum-
mer small parthenogenetic eggs with a thin shell which develop into
parthenogenetic females,* but under certain conditions males and
females appear. The females produce large winter eggs which are
fertilized and produce in the following year only female daphnids which
start the parthenogenetic summer broods. The sex of the winter eggs
is probably determined in the ovary, since the eggs show their charac-
teristic structure before they are set free. The appearance of the male
and female generation is supposed to be connected with the change in
temperature, or more probably with a change in the amount of food.
Under these conditions, as has just been said, eggs that produce males
and females are formed. Here it would appear that an external con-
dition determines the appearance of the male and of a different kind
of female.
Similar facts are known for the aphids, or plant-lice. If conditions
are favorable, i. e., if they are kept warm and have an abundance of
succulent food, they continue indefinitely producing wingless parthen-
ogenetic females. But if the food becomes scarce or dry, then winged
males and females arise from the parthenogenetic eggs; these unite,
and the fertilized winter eggs are laid. From these eggs the wingless
parthenognetic females arise in the following spring.
The life history of Pliyloxera vitifolii, which is parasitic on the
* Lenssen claims that the parthenogenetic female eggs do not give off a
polar body, and that the male eggs give off only a single polar body. Whether
this difference may have any relation to the sex of the individual will be dis-
cussed later.
