I04 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
roots of the grape, is as follows: A series of par chenogenetic wingless
females succeed each other, until at the end of June the last generation
of these produces, parthenogenetically, winged females that are capable
of migrating. These also produce parthenogenetic eggs of two kinds,
small ones from which winged males develop, and larger ones from
which winged females arise.* Union of the sexes now takes place and
each female lays one egg which gives rise in the following spring to
the parthenogenetic wingless female that lives on the root of the
grape vine.
We come now to the much discussed case of the hive bee. There
are here three kinds of individuals : the queen which lays all the eggs ;
the workers, which are immature females and do not reproduce at all,
and the drones or males which fertilize the eggs of the queen.
It has long been believed that when an egg of the queen is
fertilized it gives rise to a female (either queen or worker according to
the kind of food given to the young maggot), but if not fertilized the
egg gives rise to a male. It has been generally assumed, in accordance
with this belief, that all the eggs are alike and will produce males if
they are not fertilized, but females if they are fertilized. It is known
moreover that the cells of the comb in which the queen deposits the
eggs that are to become males are different from the worker cells, and
this fact is generally interpreted to mean that the queen is capable of
determining the sex of her offspring by allowing or preventing the
fertilization of the egg. The sperm which was received by the young
queen at the time when she left the hive with a swarm is stored up in
a special sac or receptacle with muscular walls and an outlet that
opens near the oviducts. It is generally assumed that the queen
squeezes out the sperm when an egg that is to be fertilized is laid, but
does not do so when a male is to be produced. Some writers have
marveled at this wonderful power, that seems almost akin to intelli-
gence, by which the queen determines at will the sex of her offspring,
but this may give an entirely exaggerated idea of what takes place, for
the act may be a very simple reflex. It has been shown by Drory
that if the queen is supplied with an artificial comb containing only
drone cells she may be forced to lay in them fertilized eggs that
become workers. Conversely, if supplied with worker cells only she
will sometimes lay unfertilized eggs in them. This has been inter-
preted to mean that there are really two kinds of eggs that are laid by
the queen, male and female, and that only the latter are capable, as
a rule, of being fertilized. On this assumption we should be forced
to conclude either that the queen can determine which kind of egg is
to be laid and places it in its proper cell, or that she has a knowledge
* The small eggs appear to be laid by the smaller winged individuals and
the larger eggs by the larger individuals.
