THE DETERMINATION OF SEX. 105
of which kind of egg she is about to lay next, and seeks the proper cell
to deposit it in. There are, however, some further facts that show
that the conditions may be more complicated than has been generally
supposed.
It has been possible to introduce a virgin queen of an Italian stock
into a hive containing workers and males of a German stock. These
two kinds of bees are sufficiently different to be readily distinguished
from each other. The Italian queen becomes fertilized by the Ger-
man males. In consequence all the queens and workers that come from
her eggs are hybrids, since they come from fertilized eggs, but the males
or drones are nearly all of the same kind as the queen, which indicates
that they have come from unfertilized eggs. Occasionally, however
— and this is the point of special interest in the present connection —
a few males appear that are hybrids, as Dzierzon long ago observed.
Hence we must suppose that an egg has been fertilized, and despite
this fact it has developed into a male. This conclusion may indicate,
as Beard has recently claimed, that the sex of the egg must have been
already determined, and was not altered by the accidental entrance of
a spermatozoon.
In this connection it should be pointed out that Weismann and
Petrunkewitsch found that out of 272 drone eggs that they studied
there was one that had been fertilized. Whether it would have become
a male or not, could not be determined; for it is said that the queen
sometimes makes a mistake and deposits a worker egg in a drone cell.
Indeed whole combs of drone cells may produce workers instead of
drones.
These are some of the principal facts that seem to show that the
sex of the individual is predetermined in the Qgg. From the evidence
Cuenot arrives at the following general conclusions: He thinks that
in the great majority of animals the sex is determined in the egg and
at latest when the egg is fertilized. In no instance, he claims; has it
been shown that the sex of the individual can be determined later than
fertilization. The classic examples, insects and frogs, in which it was
supposed that external conditions acting on the later embryo deter-
mined the sex, have been shown to be capable of a different interpreta-
tion. It has been especially made clear, Cuenot claims, that a meager
or an abundant supply of food has no influence on the determination
of the sex of the embryo. He believes moreover that it is the egg and
not the spermatozoon that determines the sex of the individual. In
several insects, in Dinophilus, in pigeons, and in the winter eggs of
aphids and of daphnids, this has been clearly shown to be the case.
In other animals, as in the rotifers and in the social hymenoptera, the
spermatozoon appears to have a determining influence. In the mam-
mals the entrance of the spermatozoon may have only the same in-
