THE RENAISSANCE OP SCIENCE. 7
intimately influenced the west. The chivalry of Europe is, in great
measure, a product of the Saracen chivalry which entered Europe in
two streams flowing through Constantinople and through Spain. The
poetry of the Troubadours and the romances of the feudal period are
directly derived from the Arabs. Even the rhythms of the Troubadours
are copied from Arab models, and the three-stringed lyre of the Jong-
leur is from an Arab original. It is from the east that the very idea
of rhymed poetry is derived. To speak only of Persia : Alexander the
Great destroyed at Persepolis buildings more magnificent than any
others ever seen on the round world, not excepting the monuments of
Athens; the looms of Persia made imperial Constantinople splendid;
chemistry is a Persian word, and the Arabs borrowed their knowledge
of the art from Iran; all the drugs of Hippocrates have Persian
names; the Persians transmitted the immortal fables and apologues
of India to the Arabs, and through them to the west; the works of
the Persian sage Avicenna were text-books in the universities of Paris
and Montpellier as late as the time of Louis the Fourteenth; our
little children are bred up on the tales of the Arabian Nights, a great
part of which are of Persian origin; in a thousand unacknowledged
ways the west has been taught by the east. When England was a
wilderness, inhabited by savages, Persia was polite, cultivated, ingeni-
ous, learned and illustrious. Whether we know it or not, we have
learned much from them, though the debt is all but ignored except in
the writings of scholars.
Moslems took the alien culture of the Greeks much as the Japanese
of our own time have taken the culture of Europe. I remember well
handing an astrolabe made in England in the seventeenth century, for
one of the ships of the Alaskan fleet of Russia, to an accomplished
officer of the Japanese navy. He was perfectly familiar with modern
navigation and with the sextant, but this classic instrument was a
complete puzzle to his mind. The contemporaries of his father had
sailed their little boats by timid coasting from headland to headland
of the Inland Sea; but no one of them had ever seen a sextant or a
quadrant. Like the Arabs of long ago they made one leap from com-
plete ignorance of such matters to the possession of the most refined
apparatus, while English navigators, our ancestors, slowly mastered
the use of the backstaff, the cross-staff, the astrolabe, the quadrant, the
sextant, during a long succession of centuries.
Such considerations as these partly account for the fact that, in spite
of their wonderful acumen, the Arabs added little or nothing to the
theory of scientific astronomy. Moreover, their religion allowed them
but scant liberty. They were confined within the narrow limits of
Koranic permissions and prohibitions. It was forbidden to make an
image of any living thing either by painting or sculpture. Poetry was
