io6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
fluence as that of the egg itself. It will be observed that there is a
certain catholicity in these conclusions at which Cuenot arrives, and
in the present uncertain state of our knowledge on many important
points it is probably wiser not to take too narrow a point of view in
regard to what factors determine the sex of the individual.
Strasburger* has recently arrived at a somewhat similar conclusion
in regard to sex, basing his evidence mainly on certain observations
and experiments in higher plants. He, too, concludes that the sex of
the individual is determined in the egg, but he does not attempt to
push the question further than this general statement.
Lenhossekf has also discussed in a more popular form the question
of the determination of sex, and he likewise urges that the sex of the
individual is determined in the egg. His discussion of the relative
number of males and females born in the human race is particularly
instructive, but it would carry us too far here to discuss the conclusions
at which he arrives.
BornJ has carried out a series of experiments with mice, and finds
that the amount of food given to the parents produces no effect on the
relative numbers of males and females born. He also finds that the
age of the parents has no effect, nor has close interbreeding. He
arrives at the conclusion that the sex of the higher animals and plants
is determined in the egg.^
In striking contrast to the general conclusions of Cuenot, Stras-
burger, Lenhossek, and of Born there are two more recent theories in
which an attempt has been made to describe in detail how the sex
of the individual may be determined in the egg. Beards paper, ||
published in 1902, may be said, in a sense, to take up the problem
where it was left by Cuenot. He attempts to bring the problem of
the differentiation of the sexes into connection with the recent work
relating to the origin of the reproductive cells or gametes. Beard tries
to show that there are not only two kinds of eggs, but also two kinds
of spermatozoa that correspond to the two kinds of eggs. It is sup-
posed by him, however, that the determination of sex rests entirely
with the egg, and that the spermatozoa do not have any influence on
sex-determination. It is assumed, moreover, that one of the two
* Biologisches Centralblatt, XX., 1900.
t Das Problem der geschlechtsFestimmenden Ursachen, Jena, 1903.
t Sitz. phys. med. Gesell. WUrzhurg, 1902.
ยง Born points out that while it has been shown experimentally that in
hermaphroditic animals and plants, especially in the lower groups, it is possible
to cause one or the other kind of sexual organs to develop or to be suppressed,
that in the higher forms, at least in those in which the sexes are separated, it
has been found that the sex can not be changed by external factors.
II Zoologische Jahrbiicher, XVI., October, 1902.
