TEE DETERMINATION OF SEX. 107
kinds of spermatozoa has lost its power of fertilizing the egg and in
most cases has become degenerate.
In respect to the occurrence of the two kinds of spermatozoa,
Beard brings together rather a heterogeneous collection of facts. It
has been known for some time that in a few cases two kinds of sper-
matozoa are found. The oldest and now the most thoroughly studied
example is that of the snail, Physa vivipera. In this animal there are
hair-like spermatozoa that resemble the ordinary forms of spermatozoa,
and also worm-like forms which are as numerous as the other kind.
A remarkable fact has recently been discovered by Meves in regard to
these spermatozoa. An unusual and probably degenerate process
occurs in the formation of the worm-like spermatozoon, so that instead
of containing the reduced number (seven) of chromosomes it con-
tains but a single one. In another form, Pygcera, this second form
of spermatozoon contains no chromatin material whatsoever, i. e., it is
headless and presumably functionless as well.
In the long list of cases given by Beard in which two forms of
spermatozoa have been described, there are several cases in which the
two distinct forms appear to be always present and characteristic, as in
the cases cited above; but he has also included some other cases in
which giant spermatozoa occur, and some of these at least have been
shown to be the result of a failure of the spermatocytes to divide.
Until it can be shown that this failure to divide is usual and charac-
teristic of one set of these spermatocyte cells the result may really
have no bearing at all on Beards contention.
Much more striking are the cases in which there is an accessory
chromosome present in two of each of the four cells that develop from
a single spermatogonial cell. The discoveries of McClung, Mont-
gomery and Sutton in this connection indicate that there are two
kinds of spermatozoa, and McClung has urged that this difference is
connected with the determination of sex; but there is nothing more
than the supposition that this may be so to go upon at present. In
these cases, although the form of the spermatozoa is the same for the
two kinds, there appears to be a difference in the amount of the
chromatin material. It has not been shown that a difference of this
kind would have any value in the determination of sex, and even if
this were the case the results do not conform to the requirements of
Beards theory, as we shall see presently.
Beard calls attention to the fact that in nearly all the cases in
which two kinds of spermatozoa have been described there is evidence
of the degeneration of one of the two kinds. Prom this he draws the
rather sweeping conclusion that throughout the animal kingdom one
of the two forms of spermatozoa has become suppressed. He arrives
at this conclusion in the face of an overwhelming body of evidence
