THE DETERMINATION OF SEX. 109
patent and touches such a fundamental point of Beards theory that
it is more than surprising that he has said nothing about it. If the
female aphid develops from a female egg (the polar bodies of which
are on Beards theory also female), we can understand why in the next
generation she must give rise to female eggs, but why should males
ever be again produced ? Since it has been established beyond question
that these parthenogenetic females do produce both males and females
at the end of the summer, the question is where have the male eggs
come from?* Beard appears to take for granted that a female egg
can give rise to cells that become male eggs. If so his theory can
have very little if any value, since the entire conception on which it
rests, namely, the separation of the male and the female eggs at one
division, is rendered valueless, I think, by the assumption that after
such a thing has once taken place a female cell may in the next
generation give rise to male eggs. Furthermore Beards assumption,
that the separation of the male and the female eggs occurs at the time
when the reduction in the number of the chromosomes takes place in
the egg, is pure guess-work, and not very good guessing either, for
certain recent work indicates that the reduction in the number of the
chromosomes involves a process that can have no conceivable connec-
tion with the separation of the male from the female elements of the
egg. On the whole it does not appear that Beard has offered a very
convincing theory as to how the determination of the sex of the
individual is accomplished.
Castlef also has recently advanced certain hypotheses in regard to
the determination of sex. In certain superficial respects his view
appears similar to that of Beard, but closer scrutiny shows that the
two views are essentially different in many important points.
Castle assumes that there are two kinds of eggs, male and female,
and two kinds of spermatozoa, male and female. He supposes that
both kinds of spermatozoa are functional in the sense that each carries
with it the possibility of determining the sex of the individual, and
each spermatozoon is also capable of fertilizing an egg, but a male
spermatozoon can fertilize only a female egg and a female spermatozoon
a male egg. It is evident, therefore, that Castles idea in regard to
the spermatozoa is fundamentally different from that of Beard.
Furthermore, Castle supposes that the separation of the male from
the female qualities of each egg takes place at the time when the
second polar body is extruded, and, in consequence, the egg and one
of the polar bodies will be female and the other two polar bodies male,
or if the egg remains female, one polar body will be female and the
* The same paradox appears wherever a female contains male eggs.
t Bulletin Museum Compt. Zoology at Harvard College, January, 1903.
