no POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
other two male. Similarly for the spermatozoa; two of each four
(formed from the first spermatocyte) are female, and two are male.
The evidence on which Castle rests his assumption that there are
two kinds of spermatozoa, as well as two kinds of eggs, is contained
in the following statement: That sex is borne by the egg is shown
clearly by the case of parthenogenetic animals, which without the
intervention of a male produce young of both sexes. That the sper-
matozoon also bears sex is manifest in the case of animals like the
honey bee, for the egg of the bee, if unfertilized, invariably develops
into a male, but if fertilized into a female. The finality of the con-
clusions drawn from these facts is by no means above question.
Perhaps the most distinctive part of Castles paper is his attempt
to apply the much-discussed Mendels law to problems of sex-determi-
nation; an idea that had suggested itself to Bateson and Saunders,
but had been rejected, because the distribution of sex among first
crosses shows great disparity from the normal proportions. Castle
does not admit however the force of this objection.
A specific example may be the simplest way of illustrating Mendels
law and its application to sex as maintained by Castle. If a white
mouse is crossed with a wild gray mouse all the offspring of this
first cross will be gray like the wild mouse. The gray color of the
gray mouse is said to be dominant and the white color (inherited from
the other parent) does not appear, but is supposed to be present in a
sort of latent condition. It is said to be recessive. If now these
primary hybrid mice are interbred some of their young will be white
and the rest gray in the proportion of one to three. If these white
mice, when they become grown, are interbred their offspring will
always be white as well as all their subsequent descendants. Some
of the gray mice will also breed true, but the rest that are gray hybrids
will, if interbred, give rise to some white and some gray in the propor-
tion again of one to three. This is only a partial statement of
Mendels law, but will suffice for our present purposes.
The explanation that Mendel offered to account for the proportion-
ate number of individuals that inherit the dominant and the recessive
characters is very simple and is probably correct. As applied to our
illustration of the mice it would be as follows: When the egg of the
white mouse is fertilized by the spermatozoon of the gray mouse the
fertilized egg and all the cells into which it divides contain chromatin
material in the nucleus half from the white and half from the gray
parent. The dark element dominates whenever the two are together,
hence the first generation of hybrids are all dark. The cells of this
primary hybrid that have gone into the reproductive organs (in the
female into the ovary and in the male into the testis) are supposed to
be at first like all the other cells of the body, and contain both white
