TEE DETERMINATION OF SEX. m
and dark elements.* But at some time in their later history, and
presumably at the time when the egg sends ofiE its polar bodies and at
the time when the four spermatozoa are formed, a separation of the
dark from the white elements occurs, so that two cells of the one kind
and two of the other are formed. Thus the germ-cells are, as it were,
purified, and consist of those that contain only white and of those that
contain only dark elements. This is supposed to be the condition of
the germ-cells in the ovary and in the testis of the primary hybrids.
Suppose now that these hybrids breed together, the white and the
black spermatozoa will meet the white and the black eggs, and since
it is a question of chance alone how they will come together, all possible
combinations will be made. When a white germ-cell meets with a
white one, a white individual results, and since it contains only white
elements all its descendants will be white (if it is bred, of course,
to white individuals). If a gray germ-cell meets a gray germ-cell, a
gray individual will result, and all its purely bred descendants will
be gray. If, however, a white and a gray germ-cell unite, the individual
that develops will contain both elements in all its body-cells and, since
the gray always dominates in such combinations, the individual will be
gray, but will have the white as a recessive character that may crop out
in subsequent generations. On the theory of chance combinations
there will be twice as many of these gray-white individuals as of the
white or of the pure gray. The series stands 2:1:1. Since in outward
appearance all the gray-white mice are like the pure gray, we get three
grays to every one white.
Let us now return to Castles theory and see how he tries to make
an application of Mendels principle to sex. Just as there are two
kinds of mice in our illustration, white and black, there are two kinds
cf sexual individuals, males and females. It is now assumed that
the germ-cells, when they reach their final divisions, separate their
male from their female elements, giving pure male and pure female
eggs, and pure male and pure female spermatozoa. If, as in the
mice, all chance combinations of the germ-cells are possible, there will
result three kinds of individuals in the proportion of 2:1:1. The first
of these, that are twice as common as either of the other two, would
be sex-Jiyhrids. If we assume, as in the mice, that one character always
dominates in such a combination, the male let us say, there would be
twice as many males of this hybrid kind as there are individuals of
either of the other two pure kinds, and since there are as many pure
males as there are pure females, there would be in all three times as
many males born as females. Since we know that there is no such
disproportion of one sex to the other, it appears absurd to attempt to
* More accurately, elements corresponding to the white and black colors.
■^
%
