112 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
apply Mendels law to the problem of sex. Castle is therefore obliged
to make a further assumption to avoid this difficulty. He assumes that
a male spermatozoon can fertilize only female eggs, and a female
spermatozoon only male eggs. There is no evidence known at present
supporting this assumption, but it must be admitted that it can not
be disproved, however improbable it may appear. On this view every
fertilized egg is a sex-hybrid, and may give rise to a male or to a female
according to which element dominates. Thus we return once more to
our original question as to what determines the sex of the individual.
We shall see presently that Castle fails to meet tliis fundamental
question.
There is one result that Castle cites, which he claims indicates that
his assumption that the eggs may show a selective power towards cer-
tain of the spermatozoa is not unwarranted. He found some years
ago in the ascidian, Ciona intestinalis, that the eggs of one individual
can not be fertilized by the sperm from the same individual, except
very rarely. This case is cited as indicating that successful fertiliza-
tion depends upon unlikeness between the gametes that unite. I have
repeated this experiment on Ciona and have confirmed in large part
this result, but, unfortunately for the point of view, I found in other
ascidians that this relation does not hold. In Molgula, for example,
the eggs are perfectly fertile with sperm from the same individual.
Furthermore, by making the sperm of Ciona more active by adding
ether to the water, I have been able to make them, under certain condi-
tions, fertilize all the eggs of the same individual. In the light of
these facts I do not think the conditions in Ciona can be given the
interpretation that Castle has applied to them.
There is another side of Castles hypothesis that must be briefly
referred to, since he suggests a way of meeting a difficulty that is fatal
to Beards theory. I refer to parthenogenetic development and to
the production at the end of a parthenogenetic series of male and female
individuals. Castle supposes that in parthenogenetic reproduction
the female character dominates over the male, when the two are
present together, and that when a separation of the sex-characters takes
place it does so at the time of the formation of the second polar body
in the egg, and probably at the corresponding state of development in
the spermatozoon. There is a fact in this connection, the bearing of
which Weismann was the first to fully appreciate, namely, that the
parthenogenetic eggs of daphnids and of some rotifers give off only
one polar body, while eggs that are to be fertilized give off two polar
bodies. Castle suggests that the second polar body is the female
gamete, hence when it is given off the egg must become a pure male if
it develops. If this polar body should be retained in the egg the con-
ditions are exactly the same as when a female spermatozoon enters a
