THE DETERMINATION OF SEX. 113
male egg. Hence, since the female element dominates in these ani-
mals when the two sexes meet, the individual must become a female.
Since therefore such an egg carries the male element in a recessive
form, this element may, if it becomes separated from its female asso-
ciate, give rise to a male. In this way the theoretical difficulty referred
to above is met.
Let us follow out a little further the applications of this view. It
is probable in the honey-bee that all the eggs give off two polar bodies.
Consequently unfertilized eggs must produce pure males. If they
are fertilized by female spermatozoa they will give rise to females,
and, on the hypothesis, only female spermatozoa can enter male eggs.
In rotifers and certain crustaceans only one polar body is given
off, but since this is the first polar body it does not involve the question
of sex. Consequently the parthenogenetic eggs in these forms are sex
hybrids. If at any time the conditions change so that one or the
other sex element dominates, males and females may arise. But why
the female element should dominate in some eggs and the male in others
is not explained, and thus we are in exactly the same predicament as
we were before Castles hypothesis was proposed.
One case of special difficulty should not pass unnoticed since Castle
has made an interesting suggestion that appears to clear up a difficulty,
provided the facts on which the conclusion rests are confirmed. The
eggs of the honey-bee extrude two polar bodies, as we have said, and
hence are purely male. It is assumed that these males must produce
spermatozoa that are female. This is a necessary assumption, because
the eggs of the bee having extruded their two polar bodies are purely
male, but become female after they are fertilized. Therefore the
spermatozoon must bring the female element into the egg. Castle
tries to meet this difficulty of the formation of female spermatozoa in
a purely male individual by reference to a recent observation of
Petrunkewitsch, namely, that the reproductive organ of the male
bee develops not from the egg itself, but from the second polar body
which fusing with one of the first pair reenters the egg. This second
polar body is, on Castles theory, purely female, hence the spermatozoa
must be female. The ingenuity of the explanation is admirable, and
rescues the theory from a fatal objection, but of course even if Petrunke-
witsch s results are accurate (and they are not above suspicion) it by
no means follows that the spermatozoa that come from the second polar
body are female, as Castle assumes. The facts in regard to the partheno-
genesis, and in regard to the special case of the bee, may possibly be
given a much simpler explanation than that which Castle applies to
them. For instance, if in certain insects the addition of the chromatin
material of a spermatozoon (or what amounts to the same thing the
chromatin contained in a polar body) determines that the egg shall
VOL. LXIV. — 8.
