TEE ACADEMY OF SCIENCE OF ST. LOUIS. 117
THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCE OF ST. LOUIS.
A Biography.
By Professor WILLIAM TRELEASE,
MISSOUKI BOTANICAL GARDEN.
WHEN the Henry Shaw School of Botany was inaugurated as
a department of Washington University in 1885 the venerable
Dr. Eliot, then president of the board of directors and chancellor of
the university, said that more than forty years earlier, five or six
young men, of whom he was one, met together on Main Street, near
Chestnut, in the office of Judge Mary P. Leduc, their object being to
found an academy of science: But, he said, not one of our num-
ber knew enough of science to found a primary school, except Dr.
George Engelmann, who was an enthusiastic student, especially in
botanical research, and who inspired us all with something of his
zeal. We organized a society and proceeded to purchase five or six
acres of ground, far out of the city, I think near Eighth Street and
Chouteau Avenue. There Dr. Engelmann began a botanical garden
and arboretum on a small scale. It was kept up, after a fashion, for
some years, but the society faded out and the land was sold, and
apparently there was an end of the academy; but under the law of
the survival of the fittest. Dr. Engelmann survived and became an
Academy of Science in himself.
Engelmann, however, was not the kind of man to work indefinitely
without closer association with the few other St. Louis men interested
in science than was afforded by chance, and on March 10, 1856, after
several preliminary meetings, the existing Academy of Science of St.
Louis was organized. It is recorded that the men in attendance at the
meeting for organization were, in addition to Dr. Engelmann, who
acted as chairman, Charles P. Chouteau, James B. Eads, Nathaniel
Holmes, Moses L. Linton, William M. McPheeters, Moses M. Pallen,
Simon Pollak, Charles A. Pope, Hiram A. Prout, Benjamin F.
Shumard, Charles W. Stevens, William H. Tingley, John H. Watters
and Adolphus Wislizenus.
A previously appointed committee, consisting of Tingley, Prout,
Shumard and Holmes, reported a constitution and by-laws, which were
adopted. The original constitution, which was amended somewhat
in the course of the first year, consists of six articles, referring re-
spectively to style, objects, members, ofiicers, meetings and amend-
ments. The second article is so important that it is here quoted
in full:
