ii8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Section 1. It shall have for its object the promotion of science: it shall
embrace zoology, botany, geology, mineralogy, paleontology, ethnology (espe-
cially that of the aboriginal tribes of North America), chemistry, physics,
mathematics, meteorology and comparative anatomy and physiology.
Section 2. It shall furthermore be the object of this academy to collect
and treasure specimens illustrative of the various departments of science above
enumerated ; to procure a library of works relating to the same, with the instru-
ments necessary to facilitate their study, and to procure original papers on them.
Section 3. It shall also be the object of this academy to establish corre-
spondence with scientific men, both in America and other parts of the world.
Membersliip was divided into associate and corresponding classes,
the former, constituting the main body of the academy and ex-
clusively entrusted with the conduct of its affairs, to include men
desirous of cultivating one or more branches of science above enumer-
ated, while corresponding membership, as is usual in such cases, was
intended for eminent men of science and other persons not residing
in or near the city, but disposed to further the objects of the academy
by original researches, contributions of specimens or otherwise. The
customary provisions were made for election, lapsing of membership
and expulsion for cause, no person expelled being under any circum-
stances admissible to reelection. The provisions referring to officers,
meetings and constitutional amendments are such as are usually
adopted.
The original by-laws likewise contained six articles, referring re-
spectively to committees, library, museum, communications, meetings,
and authority. Apparently provision for amendments was not
thought of, or was considered unnecessary.
The scope of live interest of the original members may be inferred
from the section providing for standing committees, which were to
represent ethnology, comparative anatomy, mammalogy, ornithology,
herpetology and ichthyology, malacology and chemical geology, ento-
mology, botany, paleontology and geology, mineralogy, chemistry,
physics, embryology and monstrosities — in addition to library and pub-
lication committees. These standing appointive committees, in con-
junction with a board of curators provided for in the constitution as
elective officers, were charged with the care of their respective depart-
ments and expected to make exchanges of duplicates, to arrange, label,
catalogue and keep in order all donations and deposits, and to report
in writing at a specified meeting each year. The somewhat quaint
by-laws referring to the library and museum contain such provisions
as were thought desirable to ensure the greatest good to the greatest
number in their use. The article on communications provides for the
reference of those designed for publication to special committees, for
the preservation in the archives of all, whether published or not, and
for discussion of original papers on the subjects before enumerated.
Fortnightly meetings were arranged for, with an adequate order of
business, and current rules of order under the heading authority.
