120 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Salzburg ; Specimens of Productus from the Carboniferous limestone of St,
Louis Co. ; A weasel ; Specimen of a grizzly bear ; * An interesting suite
of Cretaceous and Tertiary fossils, specimens in zoology, and Indian curiosities ;
* Two specimens of horned frogs from South-West Missouri ; Indian curiosities
. . . also a fine specimen of fossil turtle {Testudo Oweni) from Nebraska;
Specimen of Heliophyllum Halli, a Chaetetes, and a Spirifer ; A specimen of
tarantula, found . , . seventy miles below St. Louis and A tarantula and
a centipede from Texas, also shells from North Alabama, He was better able
than any other member to afford material assistance to the academy in its early
days, through his connection with the medical school, and promptly offered to
the new body a meeting room in the building of the OFallon Dispensary, con-
nected with the Medical School, and the use of the collections in his hands. He
was made chairman of the committee on comparative anatomy.
Nathaniel Holmes* was a lawyer of wide interests and versatile talents who
later removed to Cambridge as Royal Professor of Law in Harvard University,
He was promptly elected corresponding secretary, and held that oflSce for many
years, making a practice of intelligently reading the more important of the
academys exchanges — for the reception of his analyses of which a special order
of business was established. It was mainly through his efforts that the academy
was placed on the mailing lists of foreign bodies at a time when it had nothing
to offer in exchange, and in this way he contributed more, perhaps, than any
other member to perpetuating it when its life flagged.
Moses M. Fallen f was one of the active physicians of the city, and a pro-
fessor in the St. Louis Medical College. He was made chairman of the com-
mittee on herpetology and ichthyology.
Simon Pollak, who died in St. Louis a few weeks ago, at a very advanced
age, was an active physician.
Charles W. Stevens was a physician, an excellent anatomist and a pro-
fessor in the St. Louis Medical College. He was made chairman of the com-
mittee on mammalogy, and, before the end of the year, recording secretary.
William M. McPheeters, still living in St. Louis, and the sole survivor of
the founders of the academy, was a physician of broad interests and a professor
in the St. Louis Medical College. He was made chairman of the committee
on entomology.
Hiram A. Prout J was a physician. He was made chairman of the curiously
devised committee on chemical geology and malacology. He appears to have
taken an active part in most of the meetings that he attended.
Benjamin F. Shumard § was a physician and also a professional geologist
well known as an authority on paleontology. He was at this time occupied with
the geological survey of the State, and soon after the organization of the
academy was made state geologist of Texas. He was naturally chosen as chair-
man of the committee on paleontology and geology.
George Engelmanny was likewise a practising physician, who found much
time for scientific research. He was a recognized authority on botany, and,
among other interests, cultivated meteorology, and he was justly regarded as the
leading scientist of the west. He was the first president of the academy, was
frequently reelected to that ofiice, and stimulated many of its activities.
* Trans. Acad. Sci. of St. Louis. 11: xxvii.
t Trans. Acad. Sci. of St. Louis. 3: ccxxii.
$ Trans. Acad. Sci. of St. Louis. 2: 178.
§ Trans. Acad. Sci. of St. Louis. 3 : xvii.
II Trans. Acad. Sci. of St. Louis. 4: xc, and Supplement.
