TEE ACADEMY OF SCIENCE OF ST. LOUIS. 121
Adolphus Wislizenua * was a physician, intensely interested in meteorology,
electrical phenomena, etc. He was made chairman of the committee on
ethnology.
James B. Eads f was a civil engineer, broadly trained and interested in the
scientific aspects of his profession. His name will long be remembered in con-
nection with the first St. Louis bridge and the jetties at the mouth of the
Mississippi River — his creations. He was made chairman of the committee on
physics.
William H. Tingley was a physician, and actively served the academy as
secretary until his removal from the city, which occurred before the end of the
first year.
Charles P. Chouteau J was the St. Louis representative of Mr. Astors great
fur house, an extensive traveler in the Northwest, and in close touch with the
work being done by Hayden in the then new and still wonderful * Bad-Lands.
At the meeting of April 21, 1856, he offered to deposit with the academy (and
to present his personal interest of about one fourth in them) the collections
already made by Hayden, as soon as a place was fitted to receive them. This
gift was but one of many, and he soon put the academy in the way of utilizing
the great resources at his commaild in the many trading posts of the upper
Missouri and its tributaries.
It is not by chance or without significance that M.D. is afifixed to
the names of all the founders of the academy except Chouteau, Eads
and Holmes, or that before the end of the year 1856, when the original
associate membership of 15 had been increased to 104, no less than
35 of the first additions to the roll were also physicians, for it was in
the courses preparatory to and immediately concerned with medicine
that the chief opportunity for scientific study lay half a century ago.
At the first meeting of the academy Dr. Engelmann called atten-
tion clearly to the fact that its firm establishment demanded the pro-
vision of an endowment fund ; and it was also noted that the valuable
collections of fossil remains and other natural objects then in the city
ought to be secured for permanent preservation. Little success appears
to have rewarded the efforts to raise money; but by making almost
every one of the original members the head of a committee charged
with some branch of museum activity, the acquisition of specimens was
greatly stimulated. The record of Dr. Popes gifts during the first
year might be paralleled, if not equaled, by entries concerning the gifts
of other members.
After one or two abortive efforts to affiliate with the new academy
a private museum which then existed in St. Louis, Dr. Popes offer of
a home with the medical school was accepted, and the property of the
earlier Western Academy of Science, referred to above, was given to
swell the rapidly growing collections. The museum was evidently the
first love and mainspring of the new academy. Though money was
not available for extensive purchases, and the records show that even a
* Trans. Acad. Sci. of St. Louis. 5 : xxxvii, 464.
t Trans. Acad. Sci. of St. Louis. 5: xiii.
$ Trans. Acad. Sci. of St. Louis. 11: xxi.
