122 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
taxidermist was kept for a time to care for the material which was pre-
sented only through the advance of his salary by members month by
month, one of the first principles in museum administration was prac-
tically recognized before the end of April in the authorization of a
collecting trip in search of some important fossils that were then being
talked of; and Mr. Chouteau several times allowed a representative of
the academy to accompany his parties into the northwest.
In gathering the nucleus of a library, which went hand in hand
with the formation of a museum, letters were sent to learned bodies
which published scientific matter. In the course of this correspond-
ence it was learned that the valuable Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge could be sent only to societies able to offer an equivalent
in published matter, which clearly brought before the new academy
the exchange value of such publications; and even before this point
was so emphasized, a committee had been appointed to consider the
question of undertaking some publication on the part of the new
academy. At the meeting of August 25, 1856, preliminary steps were
taken toward launching this venture, though the members present seem
to have been in doubt not only regarding its financial possibility, but
as to the productive activity of the small working membership. At
the next meeting, however, the practicability of undertaking the publi-
cation of papers was shown, and doubt as to the immediate power of
the academy to furnish creditable matter for publication was removed
by Dr. Shumards offer of a paper by himself and Dr. John Evans, on
new species of fossil shells from the Cretaceous formation of Nebraska.
Other papers were soon handed in, and the initial number of the new
Transactions was issued early in 1857. It contained, in addition to
the charter, constitution and by-laws, journal of proceedings, etc., this
paper by Evans and Shumard, a description of a new Productus by
Prout, an account of glycerine by Schiel, a paper on phyllotaxis by
Hilgard, an account of certain Mastodon remains by Koch, a study of
the inscriptions on a brick from Nineveh by Seyffarth, an account of
Indian stone graves in Illinois by Wislizenus, descriptions of new
crinoids by Shumard, an account of the geological formations under-
lying St. Louis, as shown by the Belcher artesian well borings, by
Litton* and the first of a long and important series of local meteoro-
logical records by Engelmann and Wislizenus.
There does not appear to have been much change in the academy
during the first few years of its life. Before the end of the first year,
Engelmann, to whom the elaboration of the Cactaceae collected on the
United States and Mexican boundary survey had been entrusted, so
* Dr. Abram Litton (Trans. Acad. Sci. of St. Louis. 12: xxiv) was elected
at one of the first meetings after the organization of the academy and was the
first thoroughly trained chemist west of the Mississippi. He was made chair-
man of the committee on chemistry.
