THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCE OF ST. LOUIS. 123
arranged his medical practise as to permit his absence for about two
years, spent with Gray and in Europe — and a new president was of
necessity elected; but the office was well filled by Shumard, who
during this period was the leading investigator among the members.
Meetings were held regularly. The museum continued to grow, and
accessions to it to be reported. Occasional and for the most part good
papers were contributed to the transactions, thus furnishing means for
the increase of the library through exchanges, and Holmes presented
abstracts of the most important or interesting of the accessions. But
the raising of money for other than current purposes seems to have
been given up, and with the hard and trying times of the civil war
the border city of St. Louis could have been expected to concern itself
but little with science. And yet in the gloomy year of 1863 twenty-
two meetings were held, with an average attendance — ignoring two
meetings for which the number is not recorded — of eight members.
At these meetings letters were read from corresponding members, of
whom a goodly number of the distinguished men of the day had by
this time been elected, and from institutions with which relations had
been established; and exchange publications were laid on the table and
discussed. For some meetings nothing more is recorded, but a
knowledge of the men who were constant in their attendance makes it
certain that much unrecorded comment on the scientific work and
spirit of the times should be read between the lines of the journal. On
other occasions scientific communications or informal accounts of work
in hand were presented. In his report on that years activity of
the academy, Engelmann justly takes pride in the collections and
library already acquired, the inauguration of the second volume of
transactions, and the fact that two hundred exchanging institutions
of science, in all civilized countries, were bidding God-speed to the
struggling St. Louis body. Only sixty active members, however, were
reported at this time, and the publication of transactions had placed
a per capita debt of about ten dollars on each of these. The testimony
of surviving members of this period is not needed to show that the life
of the academy then hung in the balance; but the men who were in-
terested in its existence were not the sort of men who let their efforts
come to naught, and it would have been more surprising if it had died
than that it lived. The war came to an end, the country, freed from
the great strain it had been subjected to, prospered, new members
came to replace those who had died or removed, and the academy con-
tinued to exist.
In retrospect, we are often tempted to wonder what would have
come about if some particular thing had or had not happened; and
the temptation is present here. The thing that did happen at this
point in the history of the academy was a disastrous fire which de-
stroyed that part of the medical building in which the academy met,
