124 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
early in 1869, and wiped out the collections of Dr. Pope, and with
them nearly all of the academys museum. The library, then number-
ing not far from 3,000 volumes, fortunately was saved, through the
activity of a few members, and most of the reserve copies of the
academys transactions, which had been covered by a falling floor, were
included in this salvage.
Even before the fire, the academy had outgrown the accommodations
that had been given it by Dr. Pope, as is shown by the appointment,
some time before, of a committee to try to secure new and more
ample quarters. Without the check of this fire, cramped surroundings
might perhaps have caused stagnation in the material growth of the
academy: but the loss of the museum effected lasting and at the time
all but complete paralysis of this side of its activity. Still, out of the
fire came sympathy, encouragement and some help. New quarters were
offered in the public school boards building, and the public school
library shelved its books; but the academy was a tenant-at-will, re-
stricted in its powers, without funds for amplifying its collections or
properly caring for them, and the need of putting it on a safer basis
was so unmistakable that in 1872 a serious effort was again made to
secure endowment funds. As a result of this effort, which was shared
by the Missouri Historical Society, the academy was made the recipient,
through the generosity of Mr. James H. Lucas, of a building site on
which a home for the two societies was to be erected. Only $50,000
was considered necessary for the construction and maintenance of an
adequate building; but even this sum was not forthcoming, so that
ultimately the academy sold its share in the building site and put the
money out at interest, and still has it, with some additions, safely
invested.
For another dozen years the academy continued to meet in the
quarters to which it moved after the fire. Another effort to secure a
home was made and failed. Then for a like period it enjoyed the
hospitality of Washington University. When the rooms that it occu-
pied there were needed for university purposes, more than a decade
since, it became a tenant of the Missouri Historical Society, which,
unlike the academy, had at last secured a home of its own. There was
thus secured a meeting room and limited shelving for the library, but
such museum material as the academy possessed has been stored, for
the most part, in basements and out-of-the-way places, where it has
been of little use to members or to the public.
The interest felt by the early members in scientific effort at the
great centers of such activity, as has been said, led to early associa-
tion with prominent workers abroad, from whom publications and
communications were received. The prompt establishment of such
relations, fortified by the commencement of the academys own activity
as a publishing body, quickly resulted in the formation of a valuable
