THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCE OF ST. LOUIS. 125
scientific library, especially rich, naturally, in the publications of
organizations having objects similar to its own. Most of these ex-
changes have been received without interruption, and prove invaluable
to investigators who desire to go into the earlier literature of their
subjects. At the end of 1903, 569 exchanging institutions were re-
ported by the librarian, and the library contained 14,491 books and
11,017 pamphlets. Unfortunately, lack of room has caused these to
be rather difficult of access for some years past, and the index, started
many years ago by Dr. Baumgarten, has fallen into arrears. The
latter fault, however, is in process of correction, and it is believed that
the library will be more usable and more used in the future than has
been the case heretofore.
In the homeless state in which the academy has passed the last
third of a century, little inducement has been found for the accumula-
tion of museum material that could not be displayed and could scarcely
be housed. Some things, however, there are, which will form a nucleus
for the museum of the future, for while the activity of the academy
has been concentrated of late on holding meetings and publishing its
transactions, the original inclusion of a museum among its prominent
objects has been neither forgotten nor discarded. Among the present
collections are a dozen or so of good fossiliferous slabs from various
formations, some of them of unique value; a few remnants of the
Hayden collection saved from the fire, containing among other things
the type of Tetanotlierium Prouti; a good specimen of Bos cavifrons;
some ten thousand paleontological specimens brought together by
Yandell, containing his own types and those of many of the species
described by Shumard, whose own poorly preserved collection, of about
the same size, is owned by Washington University; several hundred
specimens of pottery from the mounds of southern Missouri, on which
is based a quarto publication by Evers, issued by the academy some
years since; two or three dozen human crania from the same district,
the measurements of which have proved so divergent from those of
skulls of comparable periods that those to whom their study was en-
trusted have never ventured on a description of them; several dozen
meteorite specimens, of which the most important is one originally
weighing about 35 pounds, which is described and figured in the first
volume of the academys transactions; and a collection of over 600
butterflies, beautifully mounted on Denton tablets, was presented to
the academy a few years ago by subscription, through the efforts of
Mrs. W. L. Bouton.
It may seem to have been by chance, but I think it appears from
what has already been said that it was not, that the early existence of
the academy was closely associated with the St. Louis Medical College,
and that leading members of the faculty of that institution have always
been among its active members. Too much credit can not be given to
