THE RENAISSANCE OF SCIENCE. 9
intellects; and its religious avithority was assigned to it by making all truth a
part of religion. And as Religion claimed assent within her own jurisdiction
under the most solemn and imperative sanctions, Philosophy shared in her
imperial power, and dissent from their doctrines was no longer blameless or
allowable. Error became wicked, dissent became heresy; to reject received
human doctrines was nearly the same as to doubt Divine declarations.
Aristotle became the sole authority in science^ just as the church was
the sole authority in religion.
While a general statement like the foregoing is, in the main, true,
it requires countless modifications if it is to be taken as an explanation
of the course of intellectual progress in the middle ages. Their con-
ditions were almost as complex as those that surround our own century.
They were modified by unnumbered circumstances of place, time and
personality. No one formula can possibly express the spirit of the
middle ages, even in respect of a single branch of science. It is, for ex-
ample, entirely true that the authority of Aristotle was overwhelming.
What was not found in his works was, necessarily, false. This is a
general truth, and the career of Galileo is a commentary upon it. On
the other hand, it must not be supposed that Aristotle was always and
everywhere unquestioned.
It was not until two great doctors of the church — Albertus Magnus
and St. Thomas Aquinas — had adopted, explained and consecrated
Aristotle s doctrines in the thirteenth century that his authority became
overpowering and universal. Eoger Bacon, the great contemporary
of St. Thomas and Albert, was also, as Voltaire has said, **un homme
admirable pour son siecle. Quel siecle? me direz-vous. Cetait celui
du gouvernement feodal et des scholastiques. Figurez vous les
Samoides et les Ostiasques qui aurient lu Aristote et Avicenne — voila
ce que nous etions.
In the year 1000, the world did not come to an end, as had been
prophesied and expected : Whereupon men took renewed possession
of the Earth and of themselves. This gave leisure to the spirit;
leisure and comfort for the body had already, in some measure, been
conquered. Men again began to be curious regarding humanity, life,
nature. Science for the first time became possible. It is with the
greatest difficulty that the attitude of the middle ages towards scientific
matters can be comprehended. The time is full of the sharpest con-
trasts. Eoger Bacon illustrates its highest lights. Its deepest shadows
are found in the doings of the inquisitors of Spain. Its everyday
aspect is, perhaps, best to be conceived from poems and legends that
pleased the people. Bestiaries, or story-books of animals, were ex-
tremely popular.
They declared, among other things, that:
The basilisk kills with a glance of his eye; the bite of the cockatrice is fatal
to the weasel if the weasel eat not rue before; the salamander lives in fire;
