126 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
these men when the history of St. Louis comes to be written. Busy
physicians, they gave their services free of cost to the school they
established, letting its earnings go to form a permanent medical fund,
the ultimate wise use of which they did not question, though they
provided against its alienation. Step by step they raised the grade of
their school until it compared favorably with the best of the Eastern
medical schools, though in doing so they sacrificed financial success;
and at length, that it might enjoy the broadest affiliation, they merged
it with Washington University, in which St. Louis always has had
confidence and in the development of which it feels justifiable pride
to-day. And yet, though professional men, they did not go into the
academy for shop talk. The meetings have never been closed to dis-
cussions of interest to the medical profession, but of their own volition
these men presented only subjects of scientific interest. Even while
they were the principal active members, geology, meteorology, botany
and ethnology were the chief subjects of discussion, and the papers
presented for publication show a keen discrimination between the art
of medicine and the sciences, on some of which it rests.
Up to the time of its removal from Washington University, the
academy met in a rather informal manner. My own connection with
it dates from the autumn of 1885, when I came to the city to live.
The notices that I received were more commonly to the effect that the
next meeting would be held at a certain time and place than with any
indication of what would be done at the meeting. On a long table
were to be found the recent additions to the library. At the head of
the table sat the president and recording secretary. Around it were
half a dozen or a dozen members who looked over the papers between
attending to the items provided for on the order of business. When
written communications were called for, a paper for publication
might be handed in, sometimes accompanied by an oral abstract, some-
times not. The order oral communications was pretty sure to lead
some member to produce a specimen, piece of apparatus, or recent pub-
lication, on which he spoke, usually in a way to interest everybody
present. Not infrequently nearly the entire body, like a German
scientific gathering, gravitated after adjournment to a summer garden
or winter Lokal, where the discussion was apt to be continued over
a glass of beer until the younger men felt that it was time for them
to set their faces homeward.
Ladies were occasionally interested in the rumor or announcement
that some particular paper was to be presented, but they appeared
awed by the informality of the seating about the board, and could
rarely be made to feel welcome after a tortuous wandering through the
long halls and museum at the top of the University had led them to it.
In the meantime the membership had greatly changed. Shumard,
Prout, Pope, Swallow, Eads, Holmes, Wislizenus and Engelmann had
