THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCE OF ST. LOUIS. ,127
dropped from the active workers. Even the places of their successors
had been taken by a younger generation, and the number of non-
professional members had been very greatly increased.
These are some of the causes which led to a serious consideration,
in 1893, of means for further widening the academys influence and
usefulness, a first step toward which was the appointment of a com-
mittee to report on the desirability of a revision of the constitution.
On the report of this committee, the constitution was considerably
changed, not in essentials, but radically by the adoption of a letter
ballot for elections, amendments and the like, in place of the vote
formerly taken at a regular meeting after due notice of the business
to be done; and by provision for the election of a non-office-holding
committee each winter to nominate officers for the ensuing year, with
the privilege of additional nominations from the floor when the com-
mittee reported.
Direct effects of these provisions were to check a perfunctory re-
nomination of officers to which informal nomination on the spur of
the moment may lead along the line of least resistance and to place the
franchise in the hands of the entire membership instead of leaving it
through non-attendance to the few members who might be at the
meeting when a vote was taken. Current matters of administrative
business were also taken out of the hands of the membership and
directly vested in a council, consisting of the principal officers. No
doubt the general result of the innovations was good.
Some notable changes in the life of the academy showed themselves
very soon after the revision of the constitution and the removal of the
meeting-place from Washington University to the building of the Mis-
souri Historical Society. For instance, the provision of a nominating
committee having time for reflection and compelled to hold a meeting
for the preparation of a list of nominees has led to a more frequent
nomination of men of affairs for the offices of president and vice-
presidents, as a means of identifpng the non-professional majority of
the members with the life of the academy, in place of the customary
election to those offices of the most distinguished scientific men on the
roll, or of those whose attendance was most constant; and the removal
of business details from the meetings has cut out many spicy dis-
cussions on the financial standing and intentions of members in
arrears and other non-technical matters, leaving the sessions free for
the strictly scientific purposes of the academy.
Perhaps the most noticeable change of this period has been in the
character of the program. In its new quarters, the academy met
in a formal lecture room, with a platform for the presiding officers
and regularly placed seats for the audience, the exchanges being dis-
played in a separate room, for inspection before the meeting. Attend-
ance was made easier and the presence of ladies was more frequently
