128 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
noted; but almost in the turn of a hand, the charming impromptu
character of the meetings gave place to formality. Current publica-
tions were not brought in by those who, if they had had them in hand,
would have commented on them. Specimens not announced were not
brought to be shown if opportunity ofEered. Apparatus, chiefly from
the laboratories of the university staff, which had been easily ex-
hibited when the meetings were held under the university roof, was
rarely taken down, transported and rearranged where facilities were
few, with the certainty that the reverse process must be gone through
in the busy hours of the following day. So it quickly came about
that if nothing was announced for a given meeting little or nothing
was offered, and the council was thus compelled to provide a stated
program for each meeting, which contributed to cut out the last
remnant of spontaneity in offering the many small things which go to
make up the daily life of the teacher, investigator or reader, and
which, fresh from his own life, are of greatest interest to his asso-
ciates. To counteract this regrettable loss, the council, for the greater
part of the past decade, has striven to make the program of evident
interest to the non-professional members by providing, at least for
alternate meetings, lectures divested of technicalities on matters of
current scientific progress. Do what they may, however, though they
have succeeded in winning the approbation of the non-scientific con-
tingent, they have not much more than doubled the average attend-
ance, while the membership has correspondingly grown; and they
have not secured the attendance of any considerable number of mem-
bers or other persons not themselves closely identified with pure or
applied science.
It has been evident for several years past that the accommodations
at the historical societys building were inadequate to the needs of the
academy, and access to the building had become less convenient because
of great changes in the location of the residence section of the city.
This led to another effort being made, a year or two ago, to secure the
much needed building; and again little reason was found for hope.
But during the present year, as a gift from Mrs. William McMillan and
her son Mr. William Northrop McMillan, the academy has been put
in possession of a building, conveniently located with reference to
intersecting car lines traversing the now widely separated residence
districts. It was originally built for a private school, and has there-
fore been found directly adapted to many uses of the academy;
such changes as were needed and practicable have been made, and the
building has been renovated and equipped with modern heating and
lighting appliances.
With the opening of the fall, therefore, the academy, for the first
time in its existence, meets in its own home, and this, fortunately, not
only without any encumbrance of debt, but with a small invested fund
