TEE ACADEMY OF SCIENCE OF ST. LOUIS. 129
which its friends now hope to see rapidly swelled to an adequate
endowment. It may safely be said, therefore, that tlie hitherto always
present question whether or not the academy might some day find itself
without a meeting-place or the means of securing one is finally
answered m a very satisfactor}^ manner; and official and personal ex-
pressions without number testify to the warm gratitude with which
those who have so long struggled with little more than hope to support
them have witnessed the laying of this solid foundation of security for
the future. That their struggles are at an end, however, they can not
flatter themselves. Ample as the new building is for the present life
of the academy, it is but temporarily suited to the housing of valuable
collections, since it is not fire-proof; and one of the first things for
future activity to accomplish is the provision of a suitable fire-proofed
library and museum at the rear of the present building — for which
ample space exists. Very unfortunately, too, while the academy is
nominally able for the first time in many years to arrange its library
and more important collections for convenient public use, it is actually
confronted by the necessity, which has heretofore been felt by its late
host, the historical society, of utilizing no inconsiderable part of its
new home for purposes of revenue, by housing other homeless bodies,
so that, as heretofore, its publication resources may be maintained. It
is probable that many a vision of a reading room in constant use by
investigators and science teachers, and of synoptical rooms thronged
with nature and science classes from all grades of the schools of the
city, will still be dreamed for some years by the council before giving
place to the realities. That the academy will ultimately be enabled
to perform this part of its functions, however, should now be certain;
and the arousing of public interest in such matters which the worlds
fair and its congresses and the national scientific meetings of this
winter are sure to lead to, makes it reasonable to hope that the time
when this may be accomplished lies not very far in the future.
In its inner life, as well as in its outer semblance, the academy is
not unlikely soon to experience marked changes. Its activity as a
center of publication will doubtless remain unchanged. With the
growth of the city, of the medical schools and of Washington Uni-
versity, with which many of its most active members have always been
connected, scientific results of merit are certain to be offered for
publication in increasing number ; and there is little reason to question
that in the future, as in the past, no paper of real value will lie long in
manuscript awaiting the funds essential to its publication. As is
necessarily true of most learned bodies, the world over, the academys
transactions are of an undesirable heterogeneity in their subject-matter,
but their publication in brochures, each devoted to a single paper,
ensures the availability of each paper when the entire volume is not
desired; and if a national agreement were ever to be reached by which
VOL. LXIV. — 9.
