130 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the functioii.s of jDublication were delegated by the principal scientific
bodies to a central bureau, in such manner as to secure a subject
division of volumes, it is not probable that the Academy of Science of
St. Louis would be found to oppose such a step, though its isolation
may prevent it from taking the initiative.
Perhaps the most probable immediate change in the inner working
of the academy lies in the direction of its meetings. It is hardly to be
expected or even hoped that these as a whole will ever revert to the
character of those held when Holmes presented critical and spicy
analyses of the contents of such publications as came to hand, or Engel-
mann or Riley chatted from the masters seat on investigations being
carried on. Publications to-day are too complex for most amateurs of
science to care to follow them in detail, and the minutiae of current
research promise but small audiences for their advance presentation.
In these changed conditions lies the mainspring of probable changes
in the organization and meetings of the academy. jSTo doubt, as
heretofore, the results of research offered for publication will be pre-
sented at the general meetings, the manuscript, with data for discussion
by experts, if these are present, lying on the table, and the processes
and conclusions being briefly and clearly presented in abstract from
tlie floor. Xo doubt, too, at such intervals as may prove best, special-
ists will continue to present in untechnical language, comprehensible
to laymen and teachers, analyses of progress achieved in the scientific
world. But it is more than probable that these general meetings will
be supplemented by others held by small sections of restricted aims,
within each of which will be found the enthusiasm for current litera-
ture and the warm interest in special detail that characterized the
earlier meetings of the academy as a whole.
Under the constitution, such sectional organization is provided for.
If I do not mistake the drift of the times, the growing number of engi-
neers and chemists, whose professions rest upon and demand a con-
tinued touch with the current progress of science; of physicians and
pharmacists, wliose professional life is full of opportunities for the
observation and record of scientific detail and generalization and of
teachers with university training, but so fully occupied with the daily
routine that they can not for the moment do research work although
they can not afford, if they would, to lose touch with what others are
doing in biology, chemistry and physics — are going to find in the
organization of sections in the academy the most logical and economical
way of meeting their own needs, while through community of interest
they will reach a unity of purpose which will inevitably react on the
entire community, to the common good.
