132
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Diagram 1. Hargrave Box Kite.
them hitched on one line. But Dr. Bells object was great lifting
power in one kite and not in a team of kites. He realized that he was
thwarted at the very outset
by an old law, which was
recently formulated by Dr.
Simon Newcomb and which
has made many believe that
the flying machine is impos-
sible without the discovery of
a new metal or a new force.
This law is that the weight of kites or machines built on exactly
the same model increases as the cube, when all the dimensions are
increased alike, while the supporting or wing surface increases as
the square.
A Hargrave box kite two meters on a side weighs eight times as
much as one that is one meter on a side, but it has only four times as
much sustaining or wing surface; the weight is tripled, while the
wing surface is doubled; hence
as the size of a box kite is in-
creased a point soon comes
when the weight is so great
that the wing or support-
ing surface will not lift the
weight.
Dr. Bell then set to work to see if he could not outwit this law by
devising a new form of kite which he could enlarge indefinitely without
the weight increasing faster than the wing surface. He saw that if he
could get a large kite by combining many small kites instead of by
increasing the dimensions of his model the weight would not increase
faster than the wing surface. He decided, therefore, to combine
many small cells into one large kite instead of using two large cells
each as big as a barn door. The Hargrave box cell however did not
lend itself to combination. Two box cells fly well, but when a number
of them are tied together they do not act with the
same harmony. A box cell is structurally weak in
all directions and requires a great deal of bracing
to keep it from being twisted in a strong breeze;
this bracing adds to the weight and makes head
resistance to the wind; the more cells combined
together, the more bracing required proportionally.
Furthermore, the cells must be grouped in two sets
at a distance from each other, and as the sets tend
to pull apart, the framework connecting the two sets has to be very
strong and heavy. As a result the experiments showed that neither
Diagram 2. Triangular Cells.
Diagram 3. Regu-
lar Tetrahedral
Winged Cell.
