TETRAEEDRAL KITEb.
139
ful than this one have since been built and prove beyond a question
that a practical, efficient and powerful method of combination of small
forces has been discovered.
Dr. Bell has been building during the past summer thousands of
tetrahedral cells varying in size from 35 cm. to 1 meter. Some of
them are covered with light red silk weighing about -iO grams to the
square meter and others with nainsook, very fine cotton, about as light
as the silk. Some of the earlier cells were covered with cheesecloth,
but the cheesecloth weighed so much — over 100 grams to the square
meter — that Dr. Bell has discarded it. The framework of the cells
is usually of black spruce, which is light and strong.
To make a tetrahedral cell, take six sticks of equal length and
place three of them on a table so as to make an equilateral triangle.
Erect one of the three remaining sticks at each corner of the triangle
and bring the tops together. It
is the old-fashioned puzzle of
making four triangles with six
matches. Then cover any two
sides and you have a tetrahedral
winged cell.
A number of cells outlined
against the sky look like a flock
of birds; for instance look at
Fig. 18; the wings of a cell are
also like a birds wings in that
they are not rigid like a board;
the silk covering yields somewhat
to the pressure of the wind as the
feathers of a birds wing.
Hundreds of tetrahedral cells
are now being made in which the
frame consists of hollow alumi-
num tubing. The aluminum
weighs very little more than the
spruce wood hitherto employed
and gives much greater strength
to the frame.
Using these cells just as a
mason uses bricks to build houses
of many forms, he has been con-
structing kites of every shape that a fertile brain could devise. Steadi-
ness in the air and lifting power have been the main object in all.
Some of his combinations are gigantic, exceeding twenty-five feet in
length and twelve and fifteen feet in height and width, but in spite
Fig. 7. Red Flier in the Air.
