TETRAHEDEAL KITES.
143
shattered to pieces, but beyond a few broken sticks it was as well and
strong at the end of the journey as when it started.
The big tetrahedral kites, twelve feet and more on a side, look like
awkward things to travel with or to store away, but they may be
packed as handily and in as small compass as blankets or rugs. Each
kite is made in collapsible sections, which open and then fold up, as
shown in Fig. 12. Half a dozen large kites can in this way be carried
in a trunk from place to place and put together in a few minutes.
The more recent experiments made have been to obtain a giant
manlifting kite, or flying machine, that will rise from the surface of
a lake. Any one who has ever watched a heavy bird rise from the
ground has doubtless noticed that
it runs along the ground for a
few feet before it rises — the bird
must acquire some momentum
before its wings can lift its heavy
body into the air. The natives of
certain parts of the Andes under-
stand this fact very well and hy
means of it catch the great
Andean vultures. A small space
is shut in with a high fence and
left open at the top. Then a
lamb or piece of carrion is placed
on the ground inside. Presently
a vulture sees the bait and swoops
down upon it ; but when once
he has lighted on the ground
inside he can not get out for
he has no running space in
which to acquire the momentinn
that is necessary before his wings
can lift him. In the same way
the first difficulty of all flying
machines is to acquire the first
momentum that will lift the machine into the air. To over-
come this difficulty the flying machine inventor usually shoots his
machine from a high platform which makes it necessary for the ma-
chine to rise immediately. But if the flying machine can not start
in a natural way the chances are its method of working is not right and
it is doomed to failure. And even if a machine could fly perfectly
after it had been started how could it get up again if it came down for
food or fuel at some point where there was no platform and starting
Fig. 12. A Section of a Kite folded up
FOR Packing.
