THE RENAISSANCE OF SCIENCE. n
them to be made harmless — and then slew the magician; so that to
this day the water is safe. Stories of this sort are interwoven with
admirably intelligent accounts of these distant countries. All are
equally credited and credible.
What strikes a modern reader with astonishment is by no means
the ignorance of the writer, but rather his entire lack of the critical
faculty. This lack, for Europeans as well as for Arabs, may be taken
as characteristic of the middle ages. Our ancestors appear, at times,
nothing but adventurous Eskimo who had read Aristotle.
In the year 1238 the inhabitants of Sweden Avere prevented by their fear of
the Tartars, from sending as usual, their ships to the herring fishery on the
coast of England; and as there was no exportation, forty or fifty of these fish
sold for a shilling. It is whimsical enough, says Gibbon, that the orders
of a Mogul Khan, who reigned on the borders of China, should have lowered
the price of herrings in the English market.
The reign of Faith appears, at first glance, so absolute during the
Middle Ages, that one is tempted to believe that for a thousand years
no voice was lifted against established religion. A study of the
details of history brings, however, many episodes to light that exhibit
something like a continuous change from the rationalism of the ancients
to that of the moderns. The chain is easiest to trace, of course, in
the history of philosophy. It existed likewise in the history of science.
The whole of the thirteenth century, exclusively religious as it appears
at first sight, was stirred by an undercurrent of free inquiry which has
left little trace in written history solely because the history of that
period was written by the Dominican school. Eoger Bacon was a
product of his age, then, not a lusus naturae.
The philosophy of the Arab commentators of Aristotle — pantheistic
in its essence — was utterly opposed to the philosophy of orthodox
scholastics. In the year 1209 the council of Paris condemned the
Natural Philosophy of Aristotle and its commentaries. A bull of
Gregory IX. in 1231 confirmed the condemnation. Such condemna-
tions demonstrated the prevalence of presumed error. By the middle of
the century Albertus Magnus had arranged Aristotelian teachings so
that they were again in favor, and he incorporated in his text, from
the Arabs, all that was useful to his argument. Heterodox comments
were refuted when they were not rejected outright. St. Thomas
Aquinas gave an even more solid form to orthodox philosophy and
waged persistent war on the specific doctrines of the Arabs. In the
year 1277 a series of thirteen propositions, mostly taken from Avicenna
and Averroes, was formally condemned at Paris and at Oxford. In
the general chapter of the Franciscans held at Assisi in 1295, an
especial warning was given against exotic opinions. These instances
from the history of a single century indicate that there was no universal
stagnation. Condemnations of heterodox philosophizing were required
