POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
149
sitting in a chair suspended some yards below the machine. As the
ultimate machine will probably be of tougher material than wood and
silk, in time of war the operator and the motor would be protected as
well as hidden, instead of being a splendid target for every shot from
below.
Kites that are tetrahedral in form, as the red and white fliers
shown in Figs. 6 and 9 and those used to form the superstructure of
Mabel II., have perfect equilibrium, but because of their small resultant
area of horizontal or sustaining surface, their lifting power, though
considerable, is not as great as Dr. Bell is satisfied to obtain. His
latest combinations have, therefore,
been made in the hope of obtaining
greater horizontal surface, and thus
greater lifting power. In Figs. 21
and 23 is shown a new form of
kite, Victor I., which is undoubtedly
the most wonderful kite ever devised
and put together.
This great H-shaped kite rose
from the hand, without running, in
a breeze so light that a flag on a pole
fifty yards away hung limp and
motionless. It glided up and up
until it was flying six or seven hun-
dred yards high, steady as a table
top. The breeze at that elevation
was perhaps flve or six miles, though
on the ground the movement of the
lir was so light as to be imper-
ceptible even on the grass or trees.
In a breeze of fifteen miles it fiew
as steadily as before, but nearer the
perpendicular and with a tremendous pull.
A glance at the photographs will readily explain what makes the
kite such a remarkable flier. The cells of the two wings are reversed,
the keels of the cells pointing up instead of down, and the tips pointing
down instead of up, while above each tier of cells stretches a wide
aeroplane. This wide expanse of sustaining surface helps the winged
cells tremendously and at the same time does not interfere with their
working. Victor I. is three meters long, three meters wide and one
meter deep and weighs only twelve pounds. The flying weight is only
three hundred and fifty grams to the square meter of horizontal sur-
face. A smaller kite of similar model has been constructed whose
flying weight is about two hundred grams.
Fig. 20. Model of Mabel II. in Air.
