TETRAHEDRAL KITES. 151
The framework of this latest model is also strong enough to support
a man, and yet its flying weight is, as I have said, only 200 grams to
the square meter of supporting surface. When we consider that the
flying weight of other machines in which the greatest lightness has
been striven for is nearly one hundred times as great as in this kite,
we realize the tremendous advance made by Dr. Bell in at least one
direction^ — a marvelous combination of lightness and strength.
In not one of the successful kites of Dr. Bell has the flying weight
exceeded 500 grams to the square meter of supporting surface, whereas
in various other machines the ratio exceeds 10,000 grams to the square
meter.
Dr. Bell has thus constructed one form of successful flying machine,
Mabel II. Another form, which may be even more successful and of
which Victor I. is a model, is nearly completed. To obtain the form
of a flying machine has been the principal problem to solve ; the matter
of a motor is comparatively simple.
The next step is to place a motor on Mabel II., or an enlarged
Victor I., with a propeller extending from each side of the kite like
an aerial paddle wheel. Strong and light motors are in the market
and to be had easily. Then, as the operator sits inside with spinning
propellers he can drive the kite up and down the surface of the bay
testing how to control and steer her. Later, with the propellers going
faster, he can send the kite skimming along a few yards above the
surface and continue the experiments at this small height above the
water without danger to life.
Finally, by still further increasing the speed of his propellers he
can shoot upward and leisurely proceed wherever he may desire.
Great speed is not Dr. Bells object. Ten or fifteen miles an hour is
enough to start with.
Dr. Bell has now reached the point where the flying machine is no
longer problematical. It is simply a question of time necessary to put
things together. Whether the first flying machine carrying a man is
built by him at his laboratory in Beinn Bhreagh is probably immaterial
to him, but the chances are that if some one else does not build a suc-
cessful machine within the next yea,r or two he will have a flying
machine of his own by that time.*
* Figures 1-8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 20 are from photographs by Mr. David
George McCurdy, the photographer of Dr. Bell? laboratory; the photographs
shown in Figures 9 and 11 and those of Mabel IT. and Victor I. were taken
by the author.
