52 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY, VII.
By Dr. J. A. FLEMING,
PROFESSOR OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON.
A NUMBER of more or less imperfect arrangements, having the
-^--^ isolation of communications for their object, have been devised or
l-»atented, which are dependent upon the use of several aerials, eacli
supposed to be responsive only to a particular frequency ; and attempts
have been made to solve the problem of isolation by MM. Tommasi,
Tesla, Jegon, Tissot, Ducretet and others.
We may then pass on to notice the attempts that have been made
to secure isolation by a plan which is not dependent on electrical
syntony. One of these, which has the appearance of developing into a
practical solution of the problem, is that due to Anders Bull.* In tbe
first arrangements proposed by this inventor, a receiver is constructed
which is not capable of being acted upon merely by a single wave or
train of waves or even a regularly spaced train of electric waves, but
only by a group of wave trains which are separated from one another
by certain unequal, predetermined intervals of time. Thus, for instance,
to take a simple instance, the transmitting arrangements are so de-
vised as to send out groups of electric waves, these wave trains follow-
ing one another at time intervals which may be represented by the
numbers 1, 3 and 5; that is to say, the interval which elapses between
the second and third is three times that between the first two, and the
interval between the fourth and fifth is five times that between the first
two. This is achieved by making five electric oscillatory sparks with a
transmitter of the ordinary kind, the intervals between which are settled
by the intervals between holes punched upon strips of paper, like that
used in a WHieatstone automatic telegraphic instrument. It will easily
be understood that by a device of this kind, groups of sparks can be
made, say five sparks rapidly succeeding each other, but not at equal
intervals of time. One such group constitutes the Morse dot, and
two or three such groups succeeding one another very quickly con-
stitute the Morse dash. These waves, on arriving at the receiving
station, are caused to actuate a punching arrangement by the inter-
mediation of a coherer or other kumascope, and to punch upon a uni-
formly moving strip of paper holes, which are at intervals of time
corresponding to the intervals between the sparks at the transmitting
station. This strip of paper then passes through another telegraphic
instrument, which is so constructed that it prints upon another strip
*See The Electrician, Vol. XLVI., p. 573, February 8, 1901.
