HEBTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 153
a dot or a dash, according to the disposition of the holes on the first
strip. Accordingly, taken as a whole, the receiving arrangement is not
capable of being influenced so as to print a telegraphic sign except by
the operation of a series of wave trains succeeding one another at cer-
tain assigned intervals of time.
An improvement has been latel}^ described by the same inventor*
in which the apparatus used, although more complicated, performs the
same functions. At each station two instruments have to be employed;
at the transmitting station one to effect the conversion of Morse signals
into the properly arranged series of wave trains, and at the receiving
station an instrument to effect the reconversion of the series of wave
trains into the Morse signals. These are called respectively the dis-
])enser and the collector. The details of the arrangements are some-
what complicated and can only be described by the aid of numerous
detailed drawings, but the inventor states that he has been able to
carry on Hertzian wave telegraphy by means of these arrangements
for short distances. Moreover, the method lends itself to an arrange-
ment of multiplex telegraphy, by sending out from different trans-
mitters signals which are based upon different arrangements of time
intervals between the electric wave trains. Although this method
may succeed in preventing a receiving arrangement from being in-
fluenced by vagrant waves or waves not intended for it, yet an objec-
tion which arises is that there is nothing to prevent any one from
intercepting these wave trains, and with a little skill interpreting their
meaning. Thus, if the record were received in the ordinary way on
a simple receiver, corresponding to a Morse dot would be printed five
dots at unequal intervals, and corresponding to a Morse dash would
be printed two such sets of five dots. A little skill would then enable
an operator to interpret these arbitrary signals. On the other hand,
the inventor asserts that he can overcome this difficulty by making
intervals of time between the impulses in the series so long that the
latter become longer than the intervals between each of the series of
waves which are dispatched in continuous succession when the key is
pressed for a dash. In this case, when telegraphing, the series of dots
would overlap and intermingle with each other in a way which would
make the record unintelligible if received in the usual manner, but
would be perfectly legible if received and interpreted by a receiver
adapted for the purpose.
Another way of obliterating the record, as far as outsiders are con-
cerned, is to interpolate between the groups of signals an irregular
series of dots, i. e., of wave trains, which would affect an ordinary
coherer, and so make an unintelligible record on an ordinary receiver,
* See Electrician, Vol. I., p. 418, January 2, 1903.
