154 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
but these dots are not received or picked up by the appropriate selecting
instrument used in the Anders Bull system.
The matter most interesting to the public at the present time
is the long distance telegraphy by Hertzian waves to the accom-
plishment of which Mr, Marconi has devoted himself with so much
energy of late years. Every one, except perhaps those whose interests
may be threatened by his achievements, must accord their hearty
admiration of the indomitable perseverance and courage which he has
shown in overcoming the immense difficulties which have presented
themselves. Five years ago he was engaged in sending signals from
Alum Bay, in the Isle of Wight, to Bournemouth, a distance of twelve
or fourteen miles; and to-day he has conquered twice that number of
hundred miles and succeeded in sending, not merely signals, but
long messages of all descriptions over three thousand miles across the
Atlantic. Critics there are in abundance, who declare that the process
can never become a commercial one, that it will destroy short distance
Hertzian telegraphy, or that the multiplication of long distance sta-
tions will end in the annihilation of all Hertzian wave teleg^aph5^ No
one, however, can contemplate the history of any development of
applied science without seriously taking to heart the lesson that the
obstacles which arise and which prove serious in any engineering under-
taking are never those which occur to armchair critics. Sometimes
the seemingly impossible proves the most easy to accomplish, whilst
difficulties of a formidable nature often spring up where least expected.
The long distance transmission is a matter of peculiar interest to
the author of these articles, because he was at an early stage in con-
nection with it invited to render Mr. Marconi assistance in the matter.*
The particular work entrusted to him was that of planning the elec-
trical engineering arrangements of the first power station erected for
the production of electric waves for long distance Hertzian wave teleg-
raphy at Poldhu, in Cornwall. When Mr. Marconi returned from the
United States in the early part of 1900, he had arrived at the con-
clusion that the time had come for a serious attempt to accomplish wire-
less telegraphy across the Atlantic. Up to that date the project had
been an inventors dream, much discussed, long predicted, but never
before practically taken in hand. The only appliances, moreover, which
had been used for creating Hertzian waves were induction coils or
small transformers, and the greatest distance covered, even by Mr.
Marconi himself, had been something like 150 miles over sea. Accord-
ingly, to grapple with the difficulty of creating an electric wave capable
of making itself felt at a distance of 3,000 miles, even with the delicate
receiving appliances invented by Mr. Marconi, seemed to require the
* See Mr. Marconis Friday evening discourse at the Royal Institution,
June 13, 1902: also Tlie Electrician, Vol. XLIX., p. 390.
