HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 155
means of producing at least four hundred times the wave-energy that
had been previously employed. The author was therefore requested
to prepare plans and specifications for an electric generating plant
for this purpose, which would enable electrical oscillations to be set
up in an aerial on a scale never before accomplished.
This work involved, not merely the ordinary experience of an elec-
trical engineer, but also the careful consideration of many new prob-
lems and the construction of devices not before used. Every step had
to be made secure by laboratory experiments before the responsibility
could be incurred of advising on the nature of the machinery and
appliances to be ordered. Many months in the year 1901 were thus occu-
pied by the author in making small scale experiments in London and
in superintendence of large scale experiments at the site of the first
power station at Poldhu, near Mullion, in Cornwall, before the plant
was erected and any attempt was made by Mr. Marconi to commence
actual telegraphic experiments. As this work was of a highly con-
fidential nature, it is obviously impossible to enter into the details of
the arrangements, either as made by the writer in the first instance, or
as they have been subsequently modified by Mr. Marconi. The design
of the aerial and of the oscillation transformers and many of the de-
tails in the working appliances are entirely due to Mr. Marconi, but as a
final result, a power plant was erected for the production of Hertzian
waves on a scale never before attempted. The utilization of 50 or 100
H.P. for electric wave production has involved dealing with many
difficult problems in electrical engineering, not so much in novelty of
general arrangement as in details. It will easily be understood that
Ley den jars, spark balls and oscillators, which are quite suitable for
use with an induction coil, would be destroyed immediately if employed
with a large alternating current plant and immensely powerful trans-
formers.
In the initial experiments with this machinery and in its first work-
ing there was very considerable risk, owing to its novel and dangerous
nature ; but tliroughout the whole of the work from the very beginning,
no accident of any kind has taken place, so great have been the pre-
cautions taken. The only thing in the nature of a mishap was the
collapse of a ring of tall masts, erected in the first place to sustain
the aerial wires, but which have now been replaced by four substantial
timber towers, 215 feet in height, placed at the corners of a square
200 feet in length. These four towers sustain a conical arrangement
of insulated wires (see Fig. 26) which can be used in sections and
which constitute the transmitting radiator or receiver, as the case may
be. Each of these wires is 200 feet in length and formed of bare
stranded wire. t
