HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 157
inch. In the case of Hertzian wave telegraphy, we are, however, dealing
with ether waves many hundreds of feet in length, and the waves sent
out from Poldhu have a wave-length of a thousand feet or more, say one
fifth to one quarter of a mile. The distance therefore between Poldhu
and Cape Cod is only at most about twelve thousand wave-lengths, and
stands in the same relation to the length of the Hertzian wave used
as does a body the diameter of a pea to the wave-length of yellow light.
There is unquestionably a large amount of diffraction or bending of
the electric wave round the earth, and proportionately speaking it is
larger than in the case of light waves incident on objects of the same
relative size.
Quite recently Mr. H. M. Macdonald (see Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond.,
Vol. LXXI., p. 251) has submitted the problem to calculation, and
has shown that the power required to send given electric waves 3,000
miles along a meridian of the earth is greater than would be required
to send them over the same distance if the sea surface were flat in the
ratio of 10 to 3. Hence the rotundity of the earth does introduce a
very important reduction factor, although it does not inhibit the
transmission. Mr. Macdonald s mathematical argument has, however,
been criticized by Lord Eayleigh and by M. H. Poincare (see Proc.
Roy. Soc, Vol. 72, p. 40, 1903).
The accomplishment of very long distances by Hertzian wave teleg-
raphy is, however, not merely a question of power, it is also a question
of wave-length. Having regard, however, to the possibility that the
propagation which takes place in Hertzian wave telegraphy is not
that simply of a free wave in space, but the transmission of a semi-
loop of electric strain with its feet tethered to the earth, it is quite
possible that if it were worth while to make the attempt, an ether dis-
turbance could be made in England sufficiently powerful to be felt in
New Zealand.
Leaving, however, these hypothetical questions and matters of pure
conjecture, we may consider some of the facts which have resulted
from Mr. Marconis long distance experiments. One of the most in-
teresting of these is the effect of daylight upon the wave propagation.
In one of his voyages across the Atlantic, when receiving signals from
Poldhu on board the S. S. Philadelphia, he noticed that the signals
were received by night when they could not be detected by day.* In
these experiments Mr. Marconi instructed his assistants at Poldhu to
send signals at a certain rate from 12 to 1 a. m., from 6 to 7 a. m., from
12 to 1 P. M. and from 6 to 7 p. m., Greenwich mean time, every day
for a week. He has stated that on board the Philadelphia he did not
-»
See Proc. Roy. Soc, June 12, 1902. A note on the EflFect of Daylight
upon the Propagation of Electromagnetic Impulses Over Long Distances, by
G. Marconi.
