158 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
notice any apparent difference between the signals received in the day
and those received at night until after the vessel had reached a dis-
tance of 500 statute miles from Poldhu. At distances of over 700
miles, the signals transmitted during the day failed entirely, while
those sent at night remained quite strong up to 1,551 miles, and were
clearly decipherable up to a distance of 2,099 miles from Poldhu.
Mr. Marconi also noted that at distances of over 700 miles, the signals
at 6 A. M., in the week between February 23 and March 1, were quite
clear and distinct, whereas by 7 a. m. they had become weak almost to
total disappearance. This fact led him at first to conclude that the
cause of the weakening was due to the action of the daylight upon the
transmitting aerial, and that as the sun rose over Poldhu, so the wave
energy radiated, diminished, and he suggested as an explanation the
known fact of the dissipating action of light upon a negative charge.
Although the facts seem to support this view, another explanation
may be suggested. It has been shown by Professor J. J. Thomson that
gaseous ions or electrons can absorb the energy of an electric wave, if
present in a space through which waves are being transmitted.* If it
be a fact, as suggested by Professor J. J. Thomson, that the sun is
projecting into space streams of electrons, and if these are continually
falling in a shower upon the earth, in accordance with the fascinating
hypothesis of Professor Arrhenius, then that portion of the earths
atmosphere which is facing the sun will have present in it more elec-
trons or gaseous ions than that portion which is turned towards the
dark space, and it will therefore be less transparent to long Hertzian
waves, f In other words, clear sunlit air, though extremely trans-
parent to light waves, acts as if it were a slightly turbid medium for
long Hertzian waves. The dividing line between that portion of the
earths atmosphere which is impregnated with gaseous ions or electrons
is not sharply delimited from the part not so illuminated, and there
may be therefore a considerable penetration of these ions into the
regions which I may call the twilight areas. Accordingly, as the earth
rotates, a district in which Hertzian waves are being propagated is
brought, towards the time of sunrise, into a position in which the
atmosphere begins to be ionized, although far from as freely as is the
case during the hours of bright sunshine.
Mr. Marconi states that he has found a similar effect between inland
* See Phil. Mag., Vol. IV., p. 253. Series 6, August, 1902. J. J. Thomson,
On Some Consequences of the Emission of Negatively Electrified Corpuscles
by Hot Bodies.
t The opinion that ionization of the air by sunlight is a cause of obstruc-
tion to Hertzian waves propagated over long distances has also been expressed
by Mr. J. E. Taylor. See Proe. Roy. 80c. , Vol. LXXI., p. 225, 1903. Char-
acteristics of Earth Current Disturbances and their Origin.
