HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 159
stations, signals having Ijeen received by him during the night between
Poldhu and Poole with an aerial the height of which was not suffi-
cient to receive them by day. It has been found, however, that the
effect simply amounts to this, that rather more power is required by
day than by night to send signals by Hertzian waves over long dis-
tances.
Some interesting observations have also been made by Captain H.
B. Jackson, E.jST.,* on the influence of various states of the atmosphere
upon Hertzian wave telegraphy. These experiments were all made
between ships of the British Eoyal Navy, furnished with Hertzian wave
telegraphy apparatus on the Marconi system. Some of his observa-
tions concerned the effect of the interposition of land between two
ships. He found that the interposition of land containing iron ores
reduced the signaling distances, compared with the maximum distance
at open sea, to about 30 per cent, of the latter; whilst hard limestone
reduced it to nearly 60 per cent, and soft sandstone or shale to 70 per
cent. These results show that there is a considerable absorption effect
when waves of certain wave-length pass through or over hard rocks
containing iron ores. It would be interesting to know, however,
whether this reduction was in any degree proportional to the dryness
or moisture of the soil. Earth conductivity is far more dependent
upon the presence. or absence of moisture than upon the particular
nature of the material which composes it other than water.
The observations of Captain Jackson, however, only confirm the
already well-known fact that Hertzian waves, as employed in the
Marconi system of wireless telegraphy, within a certain range of
wave-length, are considerably weakened by their passage through
land, over land or round land. In some cases he noticed that
quite sharp electric shadows were produced by rocky promontories
projecting into the line of transmission. His attention was also
directed (loc. cit.) to the more important matter of the effect of
atmospheric electrical conditions upon the transmission. The effect
of all lightning discharges, whether visible or invisible, is to make a
record on the telegraphic receiver. On the approach of an atmospheric
electrical disturbance towards the receiving station on a ship, the first
visible indications generally are the recording of dots at intervals from
a few minutes to a few seconds on the telegraphic tape. Captain Jack-
son states that the most frequent record is that of three dots, the first
being separated from the other two by a slight interval like the letters
E I on the Morse code, and this is the sign most frequently recorded
by distant lightning. But in addition to this, dashes are recorded and
* See Proc. Roy. 80c., May 15, 1902. On Some Phenomena affecting the
Transmission of Electric Waves over the Surface of the Sea and Earth, by
Capt. H. B. Jackson, R.N., F.R.S.
