i6o POPULAR. SCIENCE MONTHLY.
irregular signs, which, however, sometimes spell out words in the
Morse code. He noted that these disturbances are more frequent in
summer and autumn than in winter and spring, and in the neighbor-
hood of high mountains more than in the open sea. In settled weather,
if present, they reach their maximum between 8 and 10 p. m., and
frequently last during the whole of the night, with a minimum of dis-
turbance between 9 a. m. and 1 p. m. Another important matter noted
by Captain Jackson is the shorter distance at which signals can usually
be received when any electrical disturbances are present in the atmos-
phere, compared with the distance at which they can be received when
none are present. This reduction in signaling distance may vary
from 20 to 70 per cent, of that obtainable in fine weather. It does not
in any way decrease with the number of lightning flashes, l)ut rather the
reverse, the loss in signaling distance generally preceding the first
indications on the instrument of the approaching electrical disturbance.
It is clear that these observations fit in very well with the theory out-
lined above, viz., that the atmosphere when impregnated with free
electrons or negatively charged gaseous ions is more opaque to Hertzian
waves than when they are absent. Captain Jackson gives an instance
of ships whose normal signaling distance was 65 miles, failing to com-
municate at 22 miles when in the neighborhood of a region of electrical
disturbance. These effects in the case of wireless telegraphy have
their parallel in the disturbances caused to telegraphy with wires by
earth currents and magnetic storms.
Another effect wliich he states reduces the usual maximum signaling
distance is the presence of material particles held in suspension by the
water spherules in moist atmosphere. The effect has been noticed in
the Mediterranean Sea when the sirocco wind is blowing. This is a
moist wind conveying dust and salt particles from the African coast.
A considerable reduction in signaling distance is produced by its
advent.
Another interesting observation due to Captain Jackson is the ex-
istence of certain zones of weak signals. Thus, for instance, two ships
at a certain distance may be communicating well; if their distance
increases, the signaling falls off, but is improved again at a still greater
distance. He advances an ingenious theory to show that this fact may
be due to the interference between two sets of waves sent out by the
transmitter having different wave lengths.
Finally, in the paper referred to, he emphasizes the well-known
fact that long distance signaling can only be accomplished by the aid
of an aerial wire and a good earth. Summing up his results, he con-
cludes: (1) That intervening land of any kind reduces the practical
signaling distance between two ships or stations, compared with that
