HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. i6i
which would be obtainable over the open sea, and that this loss in
distance varies with the height, thickness, contour and nature of the
land; (2) material particles, such as dust and salt, held in suspension
in a moist atmosphere also reduce the signaling distance, probably by
dissipating and absorbing the waves; (3) that electrical disturbances
in the atmosphere also act most adversely in addition to affecting the
receiving instrument and making false signals or strays, as they are
called; (4) that with certain forms of transmitting arrangement, inter-
ference effects may take place which have the result of creating cer-
tain areas of silence very similar to those which are observed in con-
nection with sound signals from a siren.
It is clear, therefore, from all the above observations, that Hertzian
wave telegraphy taking place through the terrestrial atmosphere is not
by any means equivalent to the propagation of a wave in free or empty
space; and that just as the atmosphere varies in its opacity to rays of
light, sometimes being clear and sometimes clouded, so it varies from
time to time in transparency to Hertzian waves. The cause of this
variation in transparency probably being the presence in the atmosphere
of negatively charged corpuscles or electrons. If there are present in
the atmosphere at certain times clouds of electrons or electronic
fogs, these may have the effect of producing a certain opacity, or
rather diminution in transparency to Hertzian waves, just as water
particles do in the case of sunlight.
We may therefore in conclusion review a few of the outstanding
problems awaiting solution in connection with Hertzian wave wireless
telegraphy. In spite of the fact that this new telegraphy has not been
accorded a very hearty welcome by the representatives of official or
established telegraphy in Great Britain, it has reached a point, un-
questionably owing to Mr, Marconis energy and inventive power, at
which it is bound to continue its progress. But that progress will not
be assisted by shutting our eyes to facts. Many problems of great
importance remain to be solved. We have not yet reached a com-
plete solution of all the difficulties connected with isolation of sta-
tions. In the next place, the question of localizing the source of the
signals and waves is most important. Our kumascopes and receiving
appliances at present are like the rudimentary eyes of the lower organ-
isms, which are probably sensitive to mere differences in light and
darkness, but which are not able to see or visualize, in the sense of
locating the direction and distance of a radiating or luminous body.
Just as we have, as little children, to learn to see, so a similar process
has to be accomplished in connection with Hertzian telegraphy, and
the accomplishment of this does not seem by any means impossible or
even distant. We are dealing with hemispherical waves of electric
VOL. LXIV. — 11.
