1 62 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and magnetic force, which are sent out from a certain radiating center,
and in order to localize that center we have to determine the position
of the plane of the wave and also the curvature of the surface at the
receiving point. Something therefore equivalent to a range-finder
in connection with light is necessary to enable us to locate the distance
and the direction of the radiant point.
Lastly, there are important improvements possible in connection
with the generation of the waves themselves. At the present moment,
our mode of generating Hertzian waves involves a dissipation of energy
in the form of the light and heat of the spark. Just as in the case of
ordinary artificial illuminants, such as lamps of various kinds, we have
to manufacture a large amount of ether radiation of long wave length,
which is of no use to us for visual purposes; in fact, creating ninety-
five per cent, of dark and useless waves for every five per cent, of
luminous or useful waves, so in connection with present methods of
generating Hertzian waves, we are bound to manufacture by the dis-
charge spark a large amount of light and heat rays which are not
wanted, in order to create the Hertzian waves we desire. It is impos-
sible yet to state precisely what is the efficiency, in the ordinary sense
of the word, of a Hertzian wave radiator. How much of the energy
imparted to the aerial falls back upon it and contributes to the pro-
duction of the spark, and how much is discharged into the ether in the
form of a wave.
Nothing is more remarkable, however, than the small amount of
energy which, if properly utilized in electric wave making, will suffice
to influence a sensitive receiver at a distance of even one or two hun-
dred miles. Suppose, for instance, that we charge a condenser con-
sisting of a battery of Leyden jars, having a capacity of one seventy-
fifth of a microfarad, to a potential of 15,000 volts; the energy stored
up in this condenser is then equal to 1.5 joules, or a little more than
one foot-pound. If this energy is discharged in the form of a spark
five millimeters in length through the primary coil of an oscillation
transformer, associated with an aerial 150 feet in height, the circuits
being properly tuned by Mr. Marconi s method, then such an aerial will
affect, as he has shown, one of Mr. Marconis receivers, including a
nickel silver filings coherer tube, at a distance of over two hundred
miles over sea. Consider what this means. The energy stored up in
the Leyden jars cannot all be radiated as wave energy by the aerial,
probably only half of it is thus radiated. Hence the impartation to
the ether at any one locality of about half a foot-pound of energy in
the form of a long Hertzian wave is sufficient to affect sensitive re-
ceivers situated at any point on the circumference of a circle of 200
miles radius described on the open sea. Hertzian wave telegraphy is
