HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 163
sometimes described as being extravagant in power, but, as a matter
of fact, the most remarkable thing about it is the small amount of
power really involved in conducting it. On the other hand, Hertzian
wave manufacture is not altogether a matter of power. It is much more
dependent upon the manner in which the ether is struck. Just as half
an ounce of dynamite in exploding may make more noise than a ton
of gunpowder, because it hits the air more suddenly, so the formation
of an effective wave in the ether is better achieved by the right applica-
tion of a small energy than by the wrong mode of application of a much
larger amount. If we translate this fact into the language of electronic
theory, it amounts simply to this. It is the electron alone which has
a grip of the ether. To create an ether wave, we have to start or stop
crowds of electrons very suddenly. If in motion, their motion implies
energy, but it is not only their energy which is concerned in the wave-
making, but the acceleration, positive or negative, i. e., the quickness
with which they are started or stopped. It is possible we may discover
in time a way of manufacturing long ether waves without the use of
an electric spark, but at present we know only one way of doing this,
viz., by the discharge of a condenser, and in the discharge of large
condensers of very high potentials it is difficult to secure that extreme
suddenness of starting the discharge which we can do in the case of
smaller capacities and voltages.
How strange it is that the discharge of a Leyden jar studied so
profoundly by Franklin, Henry, Faraday, Maxwell, Kelvin and Lodge
should have become an electrical engineering appliance of great im-
portance !
Whilst there are many matters connected with the commercial
aspect of Hertzian wave telegraphy with which we are not here con-
cerned, there is one on which a word may properly be said. The ability
to communicate over long distances by Hertzian waves is now demon-
strated beyond question, and even if all difficulties are not overcome at
once, it has a field of very practical utility, and may even become of
national importance. Under these circumstances, we may consider
whether it is absolutely necessary to place the signaling stations so
near the coast. The greater facility of transmission over sea has
already been discussed and explained, but in time of war, the masts
and towers which are essential at present in connection with trans-
mitting stations could be wrecked by shot or shell from an enemys
battleship at a distance of five or six miles out at sea, and would cer-
tainly be done within territorial waters. Should .not this question
receive attention in choosing the location of important signaling sta-
tions? For if they can, without prejudice to their use, be placed
inland by a distance sufficient to conceal them from sight, their value
as a national asset in time of war might be greatly increased.
