1 64 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
It has been often contended that whilst cables could be cut in time
of war no one can cut the ether; but wireless telegraph stations in
exposed situations on high promontories, where they are visible for
ten to fifteen miles out at sea and undefended by any forts, could
easily be destroyed. The great towers which are essential to carry
large aerials are a conspicuous object for ten miles out at sea; and a
single well-placed shell from a six-inch gun would wreck the place
and put the station completely out of use for many months. Hence
if oceanic telegraphy is ever to be conducted in a manner in which
the communication will be inviolable or, at any rate, not be capable
of interruption by acts of war, the careful selection of the sites for
stations is a matter of importance. A small station consisting of a
single 150-foot mast and a wooden hut can easily be removed or
replaced, but an expensive power station, the mere aerial of which
may cost several thousand pounds, is not to be put up in a short time.*
Meanwhile, whatever may be the future achievements of this new
supermarine wireless telegraphy conducted over long distances, there
can be no question as to its enormous utility and present value for
intercommunication between ships on the ocean and ships and the
shore. At the present time, there are some forty or more of the
transatlantic ocean liners and many other ships equipped with this
Hertzian wave wireless telegraph apparatus on the Marconi system.
Provided with this latest weapon of applied science, they are able to
chat with one another, though a hundred miles apart on the ocean,
with the ease of guests round a dinner table, to exchange news or
make demands for assistance.
Ships that pass in the night, and speak each other in passing —
Only a signal shown, and a distant voice in the darkness;
So, on the ocean of life, we pass and speak one another,
Only a look and a voice, then darkness again, and a silence.
Abundant experience has been gathered to show the inexpressible
value of this means of communication in case of accident, and it can
hardly be doubted that before long the possession of this apparatus on
board every passenger vessel will be demanded by the public, even if
not made compulsory. Although the privacy of an ocean voyage may
have been somewhat diminished by this utilization of ether waves,
there is a vast compensation in the security that is thereby gained to
human life and property by this latest application of the great energies
of nature for the use and benefit of mankind.
, .
* Mr. Marconi has informed the writer that these strategic questions have
received attention in selecting the sites for large Marconi power stations in
Italy.
