SALMON AND SALMON STREAMS OF ALASKA. 165
THE SALMON AND SALMON STREAMS OF ALASKA.
By President DAVID STARR JORDAN,
LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY.
The Salmon of the Pacific.
nnHE salmon of the Pacific differ notably as a whole from the single
-*- species called salmon (Salmo salar) in the Atlantic. Anatomic-
ally the Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus) differ from the salmon of the
Atlantic (Salmo) in the greater number (14 to 20) of developed
anal rays (the Atlantic salmon having 10 to 12), in the greater
number of branchiostegal rays, 13 to 16, the Atlantic salmon having
about 11, and in the usually larger number of pyloric caeca, 65 to 180,
the Atlantic salmon having 65. In habits, the distinctions are still
more marked. The Atlantic salmon spavens in the small streams and
runs in the rivers in the fall for a long distance. In the run, the
males become hook-jawed and somewhat distorted and many are
attacked by fungus, dying before reaching the sea. But they attempt
to reach the sea, and a large percentage of them revive, to spawn again.
The Pacific salmon, Oncorhynchus, have more definite runs. In
the process of running, they take no food of any kind. The oil in
the body is consumed, the flesh becomes pale, the jaws in the males
become much elongated, the front teeth are enlarged, the color is
changed and the whole body is greatly distorted. After spawning the
fishes drift tail foremost in the stream, and all die within about a week.
There is no reason to believe that any individuals of any spceies of
Pacific salmon survive the reproductive act.
All the salmon spawn in cold or cooling water. The eggs are
hatched when the water cools to 54°. Freezing kills them but any
temperature between 32° and 54° is favorable to their development.
Any temperature above 54° causes the egg to develop precociously
and the young salmon dies. The temperature of the streams of the
north fall earliest to 54°. For this reason, the run is earlier in
northern waters than in southern ones in Alaska. All the species
spawn in flowing water, the male with its tail scooping out the gravel
in which the female deposits the eggs and over which the male casts
out the milt.
The Species of Pacific Salmon.
There are five species of salmon in Alaska and neighboring regions.
These differ widely in habit and in value, a matter of vital importance
to an understanding of the salmon question.
