THE RENAISSANCE OF SCIENCE. 13
pean manuscripts were, at first, preserved in churches, and later, in
convents and abbeys, where they were copied and recopied and sold
at high prices. It is, finally, to the church that we owe their preser-
vation. Wars and strifes were not so fatal to manuscripts in
the west as in the east. When Constantinople was taken by the Cru-
saders (1204), thousands of manuscripts perished. Many others were
lost in its three great confiagrations, but in spite of these misfortunes
thousands of volumes were preserved and have come down to us. The
fragment that has been saved may give some notion of the magnitude
of the original collections. Ximenes in the beginning of the sixteenth
century burned 80,000 manuscripts in the public squares of Grenada.
The magnificent collection of the Escurial comes from Morocco, and at
least half of it was destroyed by the fire of 1671.
The Abbaside caliphs were liberal patrons of learning, as was the
fashion of their time and race. Haruns quick intelligence was inter-
ested in scientific matters and he had very wise advisers. Al-Mamun
was even more interested. To patronize science and the arts was a part
of the state of a sultan. It had to do with Aristotles virtue of mag-
nificence, now erased from our list of cardinal excellences. The
Almagest was first translated by learned Jews in the reign of Harun
al-Easchid (765-809), and an observatory had been maintained by his
predecessors at Damascus. His son, Al-Mamun (786-833) erected a
magnificent establishment at Bagdad in 829, sixty-seven years after the
foundation of the city. The Arab instruments were fashioned from
descriptions given by Ptolemy, but they were much larger and far more
accurate than those of the Greeks. Moreover, the Arab astronomers
observed the heavenly bodies continuously, and this habit led them to
a more precise knowledge of the elements of planetary motion. The
attitude of an oriental monarch towards learning is well illustrated by
a paragraph from the Memoirs of Tamerlane. Tamerlane was nearly
a savage, but he had learned from contact with polite nations the
fashion of kings, and it is interesting and significant that he cared to
be in the fashion. He says :
Men learned in medicine and skilled in the art of healing, and astrologers
and mathematicians, who are essential to the dignity of empire, I drew around
me; and by the aid of physicians and surgeons I gave health to the sick; with ,
the assistance of astrologers I ascertained the benign or malevolent aspect
of the stars, their motions, and the revolution of the heavens; and with the
aid of geometricians and architects I laid out gardens and planned and con-
structed magnificent buildings. At the Court of Akbar (1575) there were
thirty-eight doctors of the law and theologians, sixty-nine literati, fifteen
physicians, one hundred and fifty-three poets, besides historians, artists,
astrologers, three Jesuits, and translators, scribes and clerks without number.
Arab history shows, however, that culture and the desire for culture
never penetrated the mass of the people. They were rigid Moslems;
