1 66 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Quinnat Salmon.
1. The Quinnat salmon (Oncorhynchus tscJiawytscha Walbaum).
This species is called king salmon in Alaska, Chinook salmon on
the Columbia, spring salmon on Fraser River, Tyee salmon where the
Chinook jargon is spoken and Tchaviche among the Russians. This
is the salmon of the Columbia and Sacramento, the only species having
value south of Puget Sound. It reaches a larger size than any of
the others, the average at four years being 22 pounds and occasionally
running to 60, 80 or even 100 pounds. In quality of flesh it is also
superior to any of the others, at its best no wise inferior to the Atlantic
salmon. Its flesh is red, rich and tender, becoming however progress-
ively paler in color and less rich in flavor, as the spawning season
approaches, although the flesh of spawning fish is sometimes dull
red. The Quinnat is readily known by its large size and the
presence of round black spots on back and tail. As the breeding
season approaches it becomes blackish, the sides blotched with
dull red.
The Quinnat runs in the large rivers, especially those having glacial
or snow-fed tributaries. Its chief run is in May in the north, in
June and sometimes in early July in the Columbia and even later in
the Sacramento. In the Columbia, there is a more or less distinct
full run in September. In Alaska, the principal run is in May.
The Quinnat salmon runs to the very headwaters of the streams it
inhabits. In the Columbia, it goes to the Sawtooth Mountains of
Idaho, as well as to the headwaters of the Clackamas, Cowlitz, Des
Chutes and other streams furnishing suitable spawning beds. In the
Yukon some individuals each year ascend to Caribou Crossing on
Lake Bennett, a distance of 2,250 miles from the sea. In Alaska
the king salmon runs in appreciable numbers in the following rivers:
Stikine, Taku, Unuk, Chilkat, Alsek, Kussilof, Copper, Knik, Shu-
shitna, Nushigak and Kvichak. Schools of king salmon are occasion-
ally seen among the islands of southeast Alaska, in pursuit of schools
of herring. It is not likely that the species goes far out to sea, or for
any great distance from the stream in which it was spawned. It is
commonly asserted that each salmon returns to the particular stream
in which it was spawned. There is no evidence that this is true. A
discussion of this point will be found in a previous article in this
journal.
The Red Salmon.
The red salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka Walbaum). This fish is
known throughout Alaska as red salmon. In the Columbia, it is
called blue-back salmon, while in Fraser River it is known as Sockeye,
a Chinook word, originally spelled Sukkegh, then Sawkwi. To the
