SALMON AND SALMON STREAMS OF ALASKA. 167
Russians it is Krasnaya Eyba, which means red-fish. This species is
the neatest and most symmetrical of the salmon. Its usual weight at
four years is about seven pounds, varying from six to ten pounds.
The flesh is deep-red, firmer, drier and less palatable than that
of the Quinnat. The flesh is more compact than that of any other
salmon, hence in canning it is boiled longer. In the sea the red
salmon is clear sky-blue above, silvery below, without spots. After
entering the river, for the purpose of spawning, the color soon changes
[0 crimson, at first bright, but soon blotched with darker and blood-
red, the head becoming bright olive green in sharp contrast with
the red. The jaws in the male become extravagantly produced and
hooked.
This species runs chiefly in Jul}-, and often goes for a very long
distance. In the Yukon, it ascends to Forty Mile, a distance of over
1,800 miles from the sea. In the Columbia, it ranges as far as the
lakes of the Sawtooth range in Idaho. It always spawns in small
streams which run into the head of a lake. It never runs in any stream
which does not have as a tributary a lake with available spawning
grounds in the streams at its head. The red salmon often enters small
streams, even those a few feet across, and sometimes in great numbers.
The determining factor is always the presence of a suitable lake with
spawning beds above it. The lake may be a few rods from the sea as at
Boca de Quadra, or it may be many hundreds of miles as in the case
of the Columbia, but the lake is always present in every stream in
which red salmon run.
In certain large lakes at a distance from the sea, in Idaho, there
is a dwarf form of the red salmon, exactly similar to the sea form, but
rarely exceeding half a pound in weight. These are probably land-
locked in these lakes as both sexes are freely represented among them.
At the sea, the dwarf fish running are almost all males. In the spawn-
ijQg season of tne Quinnat salmon, many young males but one or two
years of age enter the river with the larger fish, spawning pre-
cociously, and all dying. Perhaps these dwarf red salmon are simply
precocious individuals spawning and dying before their time. No
females were seen among these by us at Astoria. In streams of Cook
Inlet, there is a late run of very small red salmon, locally known as
Arctic salmon. These are doubtless young fish running prematurely.
They are not confined to Cook Inlet, but many were seen by us at
Karluk. Of a large number examined, all but two were found to be
males. The small red-fish running in Necker Bay on Baranof Island
are of the same nature. With them are some full grown red salmon.
Why this particular stream is attractive to precociously spawning fish
is a matter for investigation.
