1 68 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Silver Salmon.
The silver salmon (Oncorhynchus milk ts chit sch) is called Coho
about Puget Sound, Kisuteh or Bielaya Eyba (white-fish) by the Rus-
sians. This species is very similar in size and color to the red salmon.
It is distinguished at once by the much smaller number of gill-rakers
(23 instead of 37). Its dorsal fin is always black at tip. The flesh is
less firm than that of the red salmon, and the scales fall off when the
fish is handled, leaving only those along the lateral line. The fine
texture and loose attachment of the scales is the most convenient mark
to distinguish the silver salmon. In the spawning season it becomes
hook-nosed and the color changes to blotchy red. The flesh of the
silver salmon is rather pale, without the deep red hue of the red salmon.
In flavor it is rather better than the latter, and only the pale color
keeps it from ranking with the best of salmon.
The silver salmon runs in the fall and ascends the streams for a
short distance only. It remains close in shore. The young can be
taken with a seine at almost any time along the shores in Alaska,
and these seem to remain in the rivers longer than the young of the
other species. The species is taken in small numbers at all the fishing
grounds in Alaska. When enough are taken, it is canned as Coho or
as medium red, but no dependence can be placed on it. It runs in
Alaska from August 15 to September 15. When it begins to run in the
streams it is not far from its spawning time, and its flesh is deteriorated.
For these reasons, although a fine food-fish, it will never have much
economic importance.
The silver salmon is common in the rivers of Japan. The king
salmon is unknown in Japan, there being no ice-fed rivers suitable for
it. The red salmon runs in a few lakes (as Lake Akan) in the extreme
north (ISTemuro) of the northern island of Hokkaido or Yeso.
The HumpbacJc Salmon.
The humpback salmon {Oncorhynchus gorhuscha) is known to the
Russians as Gorbuscha and to the trade as pink salmon. This is a
small fish, seldom weighing over six pounds and often not over three.
It differs from the other salmon in its very small scales. The pres-
ence of oblong black spots on the tail is also characteristic. Its fiesh
is soft, very much less firm than in the preceding species. It is pale in
color, and without much of the characteristic salmon flavor. When
fresh it is fairly palatable and quite wholesome, and the bellies when
salted are of good quality. The flesh becomes soft in a short time
ifter death, becoming tainted in 48 hours or less in the cool climate of
Alaska. Wlien the species begins to run in the river, its flesh loses the
little oil it has and is almost worthless as food. The humpback salmon
