SALMON AND SALMON STREAMS OF ALASKA. 169
carries the changes due to the spawning period to an extravagant de-
gree, being hook-jawed, hump-shouldered and distorted more excess-
ively than any other species.
The humpback is the most abundant of the salmon among the
Alaskan Islands. It exists in millions, it swarms everywhere in
waters near the sea, breeding in brooks, lakes, swamps and brackish
estuaries — anywhere where a little fresh water can be found. It runs
for a slight distance, and does not go far from the shore. From its
great abundance and the ease by which it is taken in nets, this species
is exceedingly cheap in Alaska, the individuals costing about a cent
apiece. In the large rivers, the humpback rarely runs. It is there-
fore almost unknown in the Sacramento, the Columbia and even the
Eraser River. Small rivers which do not rise in lakes are often
crowded with humpbacks. Such streams are known as humpback
streams.
The humpback is not found in Japan, where it is replaced by a
closely allied species, with unspotted tail, the Masu {Oncorhynchus
masou).
The Dog Salmon.
The dog salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) is known also as calico
salmon and as chum, to the Russians as Hayko, and in Japan where it
is especially abundant as Sake. It is rather larger than the silver
salmon, averaging about ten pounds. It is plump and silvery, when
taken in the sea, and may then be best distinguished from the red
salmon by the tendency of the dark color of the back to form vertical
bars on the side. In the breeding season, it becomes largely black, still
obscurely barred, and the jaws are greatly elongated and distorted.
The flesh of the dog salmon is very pale, with little of the salmon
flavor and none ot its color. When fresh from the sea it is however
well-flavored and wholesome. When canned it is dirty white, soft and
mushy, and with a strong taste of mud. It is then practically worth-
less as food. It runs in the rivers in the fall and for very short dis-
tances. Its flesh is then still more pale and mushy. It is in fact unfit
for canning, and, the few firms who have packed it have been unable to
dispose of the goods. The Rainbow Brand was established for dog
salmon.
The dog salmon takes salt well. It is the large salmon or saki of
Japan, of which great quantities are salted in Japan, and Japan has
also furnished a market for the same species salted in Alaska. The
dog salmon — taken fresh in spring — is frozen and sent in cold storage
to the East and to Germany, where it sells readily. The species is
attractive in appearance, and when taken in the sea is good food, al-
though unsuited for canning purposes.
hi
