I70 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
The dog salmon enters all sorts of rivers in the fall, spawning at
no great distance from the sea. It is less abundant than any of the
other species, although it can be taken in almost any stream from
the Columbia Kiver to the rivers of northern Japan.
The relative food value of the five different species of salmon may
be well expressed by the five digits, Quinnat five, red salmon four,
silver salmon three, humpback salmon two, dog salmon one. The
canned product has at the present time approximately the same relation
of values, except that the aggregate value of the red salmon now
considerably exceeds that of the Quinnat.
The Trout of Alaska.
Besides the five species of salmon, four species of trout are found
m Alaska. These may be briefly noticed. The steel head trout {Salmo
yairdneri) is frequently taken in the mouths of the large streams,
which it enters for the purpose of spawning. It reaches a weight of
10 to 16 pounds. The large examples are valued for purposes of cold
storage. The species is sometimes salted, but rarely canned. It is a
handsome fish, black spotted, and may be known by the very short
head, which it one fifth the whole length to the base of the tail.
The cut-throat trout (Salmo clarki) is found in streams about
Sitka and southward to Vancouver Island. It has no economic value
in Alaska. Although sometimes weighing 15 to 25 pounds in favorable
lakes, it does not ordinarily exceed three pounds. The species may
always be known by a concealed dash of scarlet on each side of the
throat. This is wanting in the steel-head, which is likewise spotted
with black.
The rainbow trout (Salmo irideus) occurs also in Alaska. It has
been taken in Naha Eiver at Loring and in some other places. It
lacks the red dash of the cut-throat trout and has larger scales. From
the steel-head it is separated by its larger head, larger scales and
smaller size.
The Dolly Varden (Salvelinus malma), miscalled salmon trout
in Alaska, is one of the most abundant fishes in Alaska. It swarms
in every stream and enters the sea, where it occasionally reaches the
weight of eleven pounds. The young trout are the most persistent
enemies of the salmon fry, destroying them by millions, although
in turn the salmon feed on the fry of the trout. The Dolly Varden
is one of the finest game fish — a fact little appreciated in Alaska.
In the rivers, its color is rich dark blue or olive with crimson spots. In
the sea, this color changes to steel gray with spots of paler gray.
The trout is an excellent food fish, but of no economic value except
about the towns where it may be consumed fresh. It can not be taken
