THE STORM CENTER IN THE BALKANS. 173
THE STORM CENTER IK THE BALKANS.
By Dr. ALLAN McLAUGULIN,
V. S. PUBLIC HEALTH AND MARINE HOSPITAL SERVICE.
ny /FANY students of European political conditions believe that the
-^-^ end of Turkey as a European power is in sight and that in
the near future important events will occur in the Balkan Peninsula
which will change the map of that part of Europe.
The solution of the Balkan question has been confidently expected
at various times during the past fifty years, but never have the signs
of the times so consistently pointed toward this result as they do at
the present time. The condition of anarchy and guerilla warfare in
the so-called province of Macedonia and the accounts of wholesale
murder of old men, women and children, even after due allowance for
possible exaggeration, must excite a feeling of horror in the most
indifferent observer. The position of the christian inhabitants in the
unhappy country is such as to cause an outburst of popular feeling
even in England against the Turk. The significance of the tone of
hostility evinced by the English press lies in the fact that hitherto
England has been the chief supporter of the Turks political position
in Europe.
The polyglot population of these Turkish provinces, differing from
the Turk no less than from one another in race and speech, makes a
favorable soil for the sowing of seeds of political discord, the value of
which outside influences are not slow to recognize.
The Turk has availed himself of the racial differences of his sub-
jects and encouraged the hostility of Greek for Slav, and the hatred
of the Albanian for both. To understand the complicated conditions
of the present insurrection it is necessary to consider the racial factors
which go to form the population of the disaffected provinces and to
review briefly the outside influences which tend to keep the Balkan
question alive, and the reasons why the question has not sooner been
settled.
There is no official division of the Turkish empire known as
Macedonia; but the name has a wide popular usage in designating the
territory occupied by these warring racial elements of European
Turkey. The name is popularly applied to the Turkish vilayets of
Salonika and Monastir, The resident factors in the racial problem
of Macedonia consist of Slavs (Bulgars and Serbs), Albanians, Greeks,
Roumans and Turks.
The Slavs came into Macedonia in the seventh century. They
came in irresistible numbers, forced the Albanians to the mountains
