174 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the west, the Greeks to the south and the Eoumans to the north.
Two distinct elements were concerned in the Slavic invasion, the
Bulgars and Serbs. The Bulgar and Serb alternated in the supremacy
of the country for nearly eight centuries, until the Turk finally
conquered both. For the past four hundred years the sultan has ruled
the country and his rule has been frequently marked by barbaric
cruelty and fanatical race hatred. The Slavic race (Servian or Bul-
garian) predominates numerically in Macedonia. The race types that
have survived the Slavic invasion and the Turkish conquest (Rouman,
Greek and Albanian) are all modified by the infusion of Slavic blood.
Greeks are scattered throughout Macedonia in considerable num-
bers. They are mostly in the cities and towns engaged in trade and
commerce, and are like the Eouman — inclined to let the Slav till the
soil. The feeling between Greek and Turk is what might be expected
after the race conflict of centuries. The Greek can never consider the
Turk as anything but an intruder, and he will never relinquish his
cherished dream of a great Greek empire with Constantinople for its
capital. Yet many Greeks see their way clear to accept Turkish pay
and assist in defeating the revolutionary schemes of their Slavic neigh-
bors, the Bulgars.
The Wallachs, Vlachs or Eoumans are a distinct division of the
Latin family of peoples and to-day number about 5,000,000, most of
them in Eoumania; but Eoumans are found in Bessarabia, Transyl-
vania, Hungary, Albania and Macedonia. In Macedonia are numerous
colonies of Eoumans; and the Zintzars, as these Macedo-Eoumans are
called, are a factor of considerable importance in the question of the
future of Macedonia. They are descended from a blended stock made
up of Eoman colonists and disbanded soldiers, and the lUyrian and
Thracian inhabitants of Macedonia at the time of the Eoman con-
quest (146 B. C). The whole of Macedonia was, up to the seventh
century and the coming of the Slav, occupied by a Latin-speaking race.
The Slavic conquest forced the Eoumans in great numbers to their
brothers north of the Danube and many were carried farther by the
wave of invasion — as far west as the Tyrol. The supremacy of the
Slav did not wipe out the Eouman race, although the races probably
blended to some extent. The Eouman exists to-day as a distinct type,
speaking a Eomance language and possessing in a marked degree the
pride of race common to all peoples of Eoman blood. In physical
appearance the Vlachs are short and dark. They are very industrious
and are usually engaged in trade and manufacturing. They are skilled
in the building trades and metal working.
The Albanians are probably the chief disturbing element in
Macedonia to-day, if we except outside influences. They constitute
an important factor in the question, not only because thousands of
them live in western Macedonia, but because many thousands more
