THE STORM CENTER IN THE BALKANS. 175
are enrolled in the Turkish army as irregular troops, or bashi-bazouks.
The cradle of their race lies along the shores of the Adriatic from
Montenegro on the north to Greece on the south. The country corre-
sponds to ancient Epirus and in physical character resembles the high-
lands of Scotland. They are descended from the old Illyrians, who
were never recognized as Hellenes by the ancient Greeks, but were
probably allied to the Greeks racially.
The Eoman occupation left many traces, especially in the valleys
and more accessible parts of the country, and the great number of
Latin derivatives in the Albanian language makes it semi-Eomance in
character as spoken to-day. The Albanians have blended to some ex-
tent also with Slavic elements in the north and Greeks in the south.
Their religion is a form of Mohammedanism, but they take their
religion less seriously than the moslem Turk and probably embraced
it more for political reasons than for feelings of religious conviction.
They made a magnificent fight against the conquering Turks in the
fifteenth century. For twenty years under their heroic leader, George
Castriot, they repelled army after army sent against them. After the
death of Castriot, or Scanderbeg, as the Turks called him, the
Albanians lost heart and with the fall of Scutari in 1478 they passed
under Turkish dominion. They were governed by pashas appointed
by the Porte, and under one of these, Ali Pasha, in the early part of the
last century they became practically independent. They at first sympa-
thized with Greece in the Grecian war for independence, but the Greeks
refused their offers of friendship, and in a certain town besieged and
captured by Greeks, there were massacred along with the Turkish garri-
son a body of 3,000 Albanians who had signified their willingness to
desert the Turks and deliver the town to the Greek besiegers. Their
treatment at the hands of the Greeks forced the Albanians into the
arms of the Turk, and they have since fought valiantly to maintain
the supremacy of the Porte. Their native dress is not unlike that of
the Scotch highlander, and their skill and bravery in war, their con-
stant interclan strife and their fierce untamable character make the
analogy almost complete between the Scotch highlander and this other
highlander of the Albanian mountains. The Albanian is a born
plunderer. War is his business, and pillage his pastime; and he is
held in great dread by the Slav, Eouman and Greek inhabitants of
Macedonia.
The Macedonian question is kept alive by several distinct forces.
The warring racial elements — Slav, Greek, Eouman and Albanian —
and common hatred of the christian inhabitants for the Turk cause
constant turmoil and riot. The desire of Servia, Bulgaria and Greece
to annex Macedonia no doubt also contributes to the local unrest. The
influence of Eussia must not be overlooked. Eussia has been accused,
and history supports the accusation, of fomenting insurrection in
