14 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and men of learning were suspected of heresy or worse. An aristocracy
of learning has always been more odious to the people than one founded
on wealth or birth ; and there is no intolerance like that of the ignorant.
Their princes could do no act more popular than to order the destruc-
tion of heretical books and manuscripts in the public square. All
Hakims manuscripts were so destroyed after his death to conciliate
the people. Works on theology, grammar and medicine were alone
spared, with a few treatises on elementary astronomy — for it was neces-
sary to be able to calculate the direction in which Mecca lay, the Kibla
towards which every Moslem turns his face in prayer.
In Arabia, in Spain and in Europe, the mass of the people was fa-
natical, brutal and ignorant. Dominion over them was gained and held
by exciting their passions. The influence of sages, like Bacon and
Averroes, of liberal princes, like Hakim and Frederick II., saved learn-
ing from extinction; but it has required the experience of centuries to
raise the tolerance of new ideas to its present level ; and even now, is not
tolerance composed quite as much of indifference as of enlightenment?
If the history of the renaissance of art in Italy is closely examined a
corresponding ignorance and indifference is exhibited. Where art min-
istered to religion, to superstition or to local pride, the multitude was
concerned for it. For art as art, only a select few were interested.
The writings of the Greeks first became known to the Arabs through
translations from the Syrian. In the year 431 the Nestorian heresy
was condemned at the council of Ephesus. Nestorian priests were
banished and dispersed throughout Syria, Persia and the further east,
and everywhere carried somewhat of the learning of the west. Under
the caliphs they spread from Cyprus to China and outnumbered the
Greek and Latin churches. There was a Nestorian bishop in Merv in
A. D. 334; and at Herat and Samarkand in A. D. 500. The Kerait
Turkomans accepted Christianity about A. D. 1000, as a tribe. A
Nestorian christian was superintendent of the city schools of Bagdad
under one of the Abbaside caliphs. Until the death of Tamerlane
(1405) Nestorians were to be found everywhere throughout the orient.
It is doubtful whether a single Arab scholar was acquainted with
the Greek language, and certain that none of the Moorish doctors were
so. The printed volumes of Averroes Aristotle are a Latin translation
of a Hebrew translation of a commentary made on an Arabic translation
of a Syriac translation from a Greek text. The meaning of the original
was almost lost in its transmigrations through tongues so different in
spirit as Greek, Syrian, Arabic, Hebrew and Latin.
Latin editions of the whole or of parts of Averroes Aristotle were
greatly multiplied in Europe after the invention of printing. During
the century 1480-1580 nearly a hundred editions were issued. At
Venice alone more than fifty were put forth. It is in Avicenna that
