176 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Macedonia through the agency of the Macedonian Revolutionary
Committee.
Thus in this small territory of Macedonia we have five distinct
elements, each discontented with Turkish domination, and yet each
suspicious of his neighbor and fellow sufferer of alien race. The
Albanian is at present on the side of the Turk. . The Greek hates the
Albanian, fears the Slav and detests the Rouman; yet hopes to domi-
nate all three in some miraculous way from Constantinople after the
Turk is forced out of Europe.
The Eouman hopes for the restoration of Eouman supremacy in
the Balkan states through the agency of Roumania. The Serb and
Bulgar are suspicious of the Greek and yet do not trust each other.
All these races have one thing in common — the desire to free them-
selves from Turkey. The sultan is clever enough to take advantage
of these race quarrels in Macedonia. In this game he has played
Greek against Slav, and the Albanian against both, and thus made his
own supremacy secure.
Russia has continually stirred up trouble in the Balkans, hoping
to profit thereby. Each state separated from the Turkish empire
brought Russia one step nearer the Bosphorus. In fact, Russia if left
to herself would have settled the Macedonian question long ago. But
this would necessitate driving the Turk across the Bosphorus and
Russian occupation of Constantinople.
With Russia in Constantinople, the control of the eastern end of
the Mediterranean sea and the entrance to the Suez canal would be
lost to England. The weak Slavic Balkan states would become Russian,
and the Slovenes and Croats, and all Austrias Slavic dominion south
of the Danube would probably be lost to Russia.
England can never permit Russia to occupy Constantinople and
control the great waterway to India, no matter what sentimental reasons
might be advanced for ending Turkish barbarity. Austria must con-
sider each Russian advance toward Constantinople as a step toward
her own impending disintegration.
Germany, with the kindly feeling engendered by liberal railway
concessions in Asia Minor and Mesopotamia, will endeavor to strengthen
the sultans failing grasp on the last European province left him.
Time alone can tell what action the great powers will take. Turkey
and Bulgaria are on the verge of war and in the event of such a war
European intervention would surely follow.
It is almost certain that the powers will intervene anyway and
give to the disaffected provinces some form of civilized government.
It is very unlikely that Russia will soon occupy Constantinople. All
the great powers, with the possible exception of France, would be
against such a step. Nor is it likely that the petty ambition of
Servia, Bulgaria, Roumania or Greece will be gratified by territorial
acquisitions in Macedonia.
