THE GROWTH OF RURAL POPULATION. 179
was greater than for 1870-1880. There is a distinct recovery in the
rate of increase in population.
The statistics given of the north central and Xew England states
show that, taken as a whole, the rural sections are not being depopu-
lated, but arc increasing in population at a gradually accelerated rate ;
townships and villages located near large cities, as a rule, show the
greatest gain in population; better methods of transportation and com-
munication and improved social conditions actually do tend to stop the
depopulation of the rural districts. The reasons which may be given
for this increased rate of growth in the population of the rural and
suburban districts are many. They may be conveniently classified as
follows : First, recent changes and improvements in industrial methods
and conditions; second, the improvement in the home and social life
of rural communities, due to better methods of transportation and
communication.
At present there is a marked tendency for manufacturing plants to
locate in the suburbs or the outskirts of a city. It seems probable that
this tendency is to continue and that our manufacturing establish-
ments are in the future to be located farther from the crowded portions
of a large city or in a small city or town. The value of land is lower
and rents are lower than in the densely populated portions of the city.
Better shipping facilities can usually be obtained ; switches can be built
into the plant itself with little expense. The old two-, three-, or more
story shop is being supplanted by the one-story steel structure ; methods
of construction have undergone a radical change in recent years. The
new style building is better lighted, heated and ventilated than the
old ; it also requires more floor space and provides for traveling cranes
to carry heavy parts of machinery. Coincident with this change in
shop construction has come a change in the methods of transmitting
power. Shafting and belting are being replaced in many new shops by
compressed air and electricity. The use of compressed air and elec-
tricity allows the machines to be spaced much farther apart, as power
can be economically transmitted over a much greater distance than in
the case where shafts and belts are used. Long distance transmission
of electrical power and the utilization of water power will aid in scat-
tering manufacturing establishments in localities outside the large
cities — witness the rapid growth of industrial settlements near jSTiagara
Falls and the Sault Sainte Marie. Water power is destined to play a
continually increasing part in industrial operations; but if we are
able to transmit power economically to considerable distances, there will
be no necessity for a close concentration of manufacturing plants in the
vicinity of any water-fall. No claim is made that such a change in-
volves a return to smaller units or to a greater number of small pro-
prietors. It. taken in connection with the preceding, does, however,
