i8o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
point to a scattering of manufacturing plants; to a spreading out over
more ground space in the case of each individual establishment and to
more healthful, natural and inviting home and shop surroundings for
the working men. One company may own many plants located on one
large site or in many different parts of the United States, as circum-
stances may dictate. The great economies which consolidation permit
are in the expense of management, in buying, selling, advertising and
the like. These are as readily obtained when the business is carried on
in several moderately large establishments as in one mammoth one.
Increased facilities for rapid transportation also allow workmen to live
many miles from their work. In this connection one more point must
be discussed. Employers as well as students of social conditions are
beginning to understand that the efficiency and value of workingmen
to their employer depends, in a large measure, upon the home and shop
conditions and environment. Poorly fed, poorly housed and poorly
clothed workmen are not efficient laborers; also, dark, dingy, un-
sightly, poorly ventilated and badly heated factories are distinctly det-
rimental to the amount and quality of the work done in them. Look-
ing at the matter from the standpoint of profits, as purely a business
proposition, employers are beginning to realize this fact and to attempt
to remedy it. The following quotation, taken from a magazine devoted
to shop management and economy, illustrates the trend of thought :
The duty of a corporation, like that of an individual, is of a dual
nature, viz., toward itself and toward its neighbors. Its duty to itself
comprises the necessity of turning out its product cheaply and at the
same time excellent in quality. To fulfill these requirements the man-
agement must see that the component factors of production are kept
in prime condition. The more intelligent the employees and the more
efficient their facilities for |)roduction, other things being equal, the
cheaper and better will be the resultant output. . . . The manager
who lives in luxury, without seeming to care for the condition or welfare
of his employees, rouses antagonisms, which are not conducive to col-
laboration with his interests either in the works or in the community.
A better grade of workingmen is, as a rule, attracted to a shop located
in the suburbs owing to its superior advantages in regard to shop and
home environment. The theory of demand and supply is not the sum
and substance of economic thought and reasoning. The human ele-
ment must be considered. Humanitarian principles are beginning to
be recognized in the business world and must be reckoned with in the
future.
The improvement of the rural school, the increased rural circulation
of the daily paper and the magazine, the electric suburban and inter-
urban railroads, improved roads, rural mail delivery, the extension of
the telephone service into the rural districts and many other improve-
