REAR-ADMIRAL G. W. MELVILLE, U.S.N. 183
REAE-ADMIKAL G. W. MELVILLE, U.S.N., AND APPLIED
SCIENCE IN CONSTEUCTION OF THE NEW FLEET.
By the late Professor R. H. THURSTON.
A S remarked by the editor of The Nation, the retirement of Rear-
-^-^ Admiral George W. Melville merits more attention than it has
received. The final withdrawal of the engineer in chief of the United
States Navy is an event of importance, not only as affecting the
efficiency of the naval service, the value of its fleet and the usefulness
of its personnel, but also, in hardly less degree, as liable to influence
the progress of applied science in that essential branch of the public
service. The retiring officer has held his position, despite all political
changes, for the extraordinary period of sixteen years. His fourth
term expired on August 8 and, although his retiring age was attained
in January, he was, under a provision of the law allowing the Presi-
dent that option, retained and permitted to serve out his term.
It has been during the term of service of Admiral Melville that the
new navy has been created and all the modern scientific methods and
all the resources of the applied sciences have been availed of in its con-
struction and operation. In this work of application of modern learn-
ing, conspiring with recent invention, Melville has been responsible for
the most extensive and vitally essential innovations, those of the de-
partment of machinery of propulsion. That his administration has
been attended with the highest success is sufficiently evidenced by his
long retention in his office and by the unanimous agreement of our
own and foreign naval experts in a high rating of our fleet. The com-
ments of the past summer upon the occasion of the visit of the Kear-
sarge to European waters, the earlier verdict on the performance of
our fleet during the Spanish-American war and particularly on the
Oregon and her work, are illustrations of the opinions of foreign as well
as of our own experts. For the whole mass of machinery with which
these ships are laden, and for their performance under steam, the
Chief of the Bureau of Steam Engineering of the Navy Department is
ultimately responsible. Melville has carried this responsibility for
sixteen years and retires with honor and appreciation by all who have
officially dealt with him or who have been professionally familiar with
his work. The transformation which he has witnessed and in which
he has taken so large a part is only comparable to that of the original
introduction of steam into the navy, and the only comparable career
is that of Engineer-in-Chief Isherwood, who was similarly responsible
