i84 IVlLLAR SCIENCE MONTllLl.
for the efficiency and reliability of the fleet of 1861-5 and later. But,
while the latter has great interest for all as an element of the success of
the government in suppressing the southern confederacy, the former is
more impressive in its illustration of the application of modern science
to the revolutionizing of the construction of the fleet.
The career of Admiral Melville has thus been one of peculiar
interest, and I am glad to be able to review it from the standpoint of
the contemporary and professional colleague, of one who entered the
navy iji 1861 in the same class and, with commissions of similar date,
served for many years in the same corps, and later, professionally, in
civil life in such capacities as permitted constant touch with the
chief.*
Melvilles services to science as an arctic explorer antedated his
appointment as chief of bureau. He was appointed chief by Mr.
Whitney, secretary of the navy, on August 8, 1887, and served sixteen
years, the longest period of service on record for a chief of bureau.
He immediately took up his task of preparing plans for the machinery
of the new navy, gathering about him the ablest available members
of his corps. The department had meantime bought plans from foreign
builders for the Baltimore, Charleston and Texas; but the work of the
new bureau-chief and his corps made it quite unnecessary to experiment
in that direction further. The existing fleet is, as a whole, the produc-
tion of the engineers and naval architects and ordnance officers of our
own Navy Department; the whole system of steam propulsion and its
accessories being designed under the direction and supervision of the
hero of the Lena Delta.
Among other innovations and improvements was the installation
of the previously almost untried marine water-tube boiler of the general
type long familiar on land. John Stevens, a century ago, asserted
that the proper construction of a steam-boiler, on the score of safety, was
that which divides the steam and water spaces into many small cham-
bers, in such manner that the rupture of any one should be in mini-
mum degree dangerous.f He invented a water-tube boiler and used
it in a screw steamboat, 1804. The famous British engineer, Fair-
bairn, asserted the principle: A steam-boiler should be so constructed
as not to be liable to explosion. J The modern water- tube boiler of
good design combines the principle that a steam-boiler should not be
liable to disruptive explosion with that which asserts that, if rupture
does occur, it shall be in minimum degree dangerous. It was asserted
by the writer, a generation ago, that this class must ultimately displace
the older forms of shell-boiler which are liable to destructive ex-
* See Cassiers Magazine, September, 1903, for an admirable and detailed
account of the work of this distinguished oflicer, by his former assistant, Mr.
W. M. MeFarland, formerly chief engineer, U. S. N.
t * History of the Growth of the Steam Engine.
+ Manual of the Steam-Boiler, R. H. T.
