REAR-ADMIRAL G. W. MELVILLE, U.S.N. 185
plosion.* In fact, the list of boiler explosions, with their attendant
loss of life and property, is a list of failures of the shell-boiler.
Admiral Melville brought this new boiler into permanent employ-
ment a hundred years after Stevens and made its valne and necessity
evident. The battle-ship or cruiser of to-day could not be constructed
of equal speed, and equal efficiency of armor and armament, without
it, and all navies are now adopting it. It gives a minimized weight
and space for the unit of power, is safe against the disastrous explosions
characterizing so frequently the termination of the work of the shell-
boiler, and it is economical. It may be employed for pressures of any
degree of intensity . The battle-ship of to-day could not attain its
actual effectiveness without its employment, at least as a battery for
high speeds. At cruising speeds, the older boiler is often retained; the
later type being brought into operation when driving the ship up to
emergency speed. The water-tube boiler requires more skill in han-
dling than the fire-tube.
Melville introduced the triple-screw system for large ships, in which
it was becoming difficult to secure safe construction of the enormous
propeller-shafts demanded, and where it seemed to him desirable to
secure a better hold upon the water by enlarging the area of the current
utilized in propulsion. The success of the Columbia and the Minne-
apolis, fast cruisers, was? complete, breaking the record for naval craft
of large size and exceeding by a knot the speed anticipated even by
their designer. He introduced the repair-ship, a floating machine-
shop, and the distilling ship, in the war with Spain, as adjuncts to
the fleet, innovations, both, of great value, often of vital importance.
In the details of his work, the chief of bureau has always exhibited
the most thorough familiarity with its scientific side, and his plans
have always involved the employment of every expedient known to
science for promotion of efficiency. He has advocated increased
thermodynamic range, higher ratios of expansion and greater piston-
speeds for his engines, to give increased thermodynamic efficiency;
has made effective provision against those extra-thermodynamic wastes
which constitute the most serious tax upon heat utilization and has
adopted every sound system of improvement known to modern science
as bearing upon his work.
One of his most important movements was that in promotion of
the merging of the old engineer corps of the navy into the line. The
battle-ship has long been recognized as what the writer has called the
* Report to American Institute, 1871, Ibidem.
t Water-tube boilers have been built to sustain from one to two thousand
pounds on the square inch. The boiler of a quadruple-expansion experimental
engine constructed as thesis-work in Sibley College, and the engine attached
which holds the worlds record for economy in its class, has been operated at
above one thousand pounds.
