THE RENAISSANCE OF SCIENCE. 15
we must seek the full expression of Arab philosophical thought, while
Algazel is its most original expositor. The greatest of the astronomers
were Albategnius, Ibn Yonis and Abul-Wefa.
Greek made its way slowly in Europe, also, though it was never
quite lost. In the tenth century, Sister Hrosvita, a nun of Hanover,
composed Latin poems and dramas, learned Greek and read Aristotle.
In the twelfth Abelard recommended the nuns of the Paraclete to
study both Latin and Greek; and Heloise was acquainted with Latin,
Greek, and Hebrew as well. In the thirteenth, Greek manuscripts were
systematically collected by a few scholars — Eobert of Lincoln, for ex-
ample; and Eoger Bacons far-reaching proposal for the establishment
of schools of comparative grammar for the study of Chaldean, Hebrew,
Arabic and Greek, as well as Latin, represents the highest wave of a
very widespread current. Petrarchs letters are a proof of a great
rationalistic movement in the fourteenth century to which the study
of the classic authors of Greece, in their original tongue, was a prime
necessity. Neither Petrarch nor Dante knew Greek sufficiently well
to read Homer in the original. The council which sat at Basel from
1431 to 1449 to consider the reconciliation of the Greek and Latin
churches attracted many Greek scholars to western Europe, and by the
fall of Constantinople in 1453 learned Greeks, who brought with them
treasured manuscripts, were dispersed throughout all christian
countries.
Raymond of Toledo, grand chancellor of Castile, established a col-
lege of translators shortly before the middle of the twelfth century,
and the works of Avicenna and other Arab philosophers were trans-
lated into Latin. In all works of this kind learned Jews bore an
important part. The translations were barbarous in the extreme.
Each Arabic word was translated into Latin by one clerk, and the
construction arranged by another. The Latin word covered the word
in Arabic as a piece in chess covers the square. The grammatical
construction was Arabic rather than Roman. The style was barbaric.
Inuarkin terra alJcanarihy, stediei et haraJci et castrum munitum
destendedyn descenderunt adenkirati ubi descendit super eos aqua
Euphratis veniens de Euetin is a phrase from Hermann, the German,
and it bears out Roger Bacons dictum that students would lose their
time, trouble and money over translations of the sort. * * Should Cicero
or Livy return, says Petrarch, * and stumblingly read his own writings
once more, he would promptly declare them the work of another, per-
haps of a barbarian.
We have seen that the eagerness of collectors of manuscripts some-
times made Moorish scholars familiar with literary works even before
they were published in their native country. Copies were rapidly
made and distributed: a popular work would soon be known over the
