i86 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Engineers War-Engine/* simply an engine devised for destructive
rather than productive purposes in contest with others of its kind, and
demanding maximum possible offensive and defensive power. The
naval officer, whether he will or no, must therefore be an engineer,
actually, if not nominally, and whether on deck at the guns or below
at the source of power. The design, the construction and the operation
of this now complicated and powerful and enormously costly machine
are alike tasks in engineering, and whether the mind which produces
its part of the work is that of the mechanical and electrical engi-
neer, the naval architect or the ordnance deck-officer. This fact
became officially recognized when the famous Personnel Bill was
enacted, at the suggestion of a board on which x4.dmiral Evans and the
then Assistant Secretary of the Navy Eoosevelt were strongly in-
fluential in supporting the view held by Melville. This radical change
was effected and we are still awaiting the outcome.
The education of engineers at the U. S. Naval Academy, commenced
nearly forty years ago, is now become an essential feature of the
course for all its pupils. The fighting officers of the navy have
now all necessarily become engineers, and the future of that service will
largely depend upon whether our ships are manned and officered by
amateurs or by experts of knowledge, experience, courage and judg-
ment. At present, the number of officers in the latter class is far too
small; but this defect should remedy itself promptly. The new
Naval Academy is the most complete and perfect institution of its
class, perhaps of any class in the educational world, which has ever
been seen or conceived; we are sending there for technical and general
training as fine a body of young men as can anywhere be found, and
the future history of our steam navy is likely to do no discredit to its
past, either in the days of Paul Jones or in those of Farragut.
The successor of Admiral Melville is Rear-Admiral Charles ^Y.
Rae, a graduate of the Eensselaer Polytechnic Institute and an alumnus
of the Naval Academy, where he graduated with the first class in
engineering organized at that institution.! An officer of great ability
and of high distinction, he is well fitted to continue a progress based
upon modern science as well as upon advanced professional practise,
and which was so admirably illustrated during Melvilles period of
service. The naval service has come to be perhaps the most impressive
and extensive field of application of science of modern times.
* JJ. A. Revietc, December, 1897, The Engineer and his War-Engine.
tTliis class of sixteen young men, coming from the colleges and technical
schools of the country, was organized during the period of service of the
writer at the Naval Academy and was one in which every naval officer felt
peculiar interest. Its members justified every hope and expectation of the
promoters of this new departure and showed admirably the value of a scientific
training for their work.
