THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
189
THE PROGEESS OF SCIENCE.
ROBERT HEXRY THURSTON.
By tlie death of Professor R. H.
Thurston education and science suflfer
a serious loss. His activity was wide-
reaching and entirely beneficent. xVs
a physicist he was not the peer of
Gibbs and Rowland, but his work cov-
ered such a broad field and was so
large in quantity that the highest ex-
actness could scarcely be attained.
His special researches in thermody-
namics and their applications to the
steam-engine have given him an emi-
nent place among scientific men, while
his conduct of Sibley College has proved
him to be one of the educational lead-
ers of the country. While thus carry-
ing on the work of two men, he devoted
himself unsparingly to every good
cause. Innumerable demands on his
time and patience were met cheerfully
and helpfully. His death is a personal
loss to every one who knew him, and is
at the same time a public misfortune.
Thurston was born at Providence,
U. I., on October 25, 1839. His death
from heart disease occurred with en-
tire suddenness on his sixty-fourth
birthday, while he Avas awaiting guests
whom he had invited to his house. He
was educatea at Brown University and
in his fathers shops. At the outbreak
of the civil war he enlisted in the naval
engineer corps, and served with dis-
tinction. He was on the Monitor in its
famous engagement with the Merrimac
and later was first assistant in charge
of the ironclad Dictator. At the end
of the war he became professor of
natural philosophy in the U. S. Naval
Acaaemy, and in 1871 accepted the
chair of engineering in Stevens Insti-
tute of Technology. In 1885 he ac-
cepted a professorship in mechanical
engineering at Cornell University and
the directorship of Sibley College.
Under him the college was organized
and, chiefly through his personal efforts
during the past eighteen years, it has
attained its present iireeminent posi-
tion. There are this year nearly a
thousand students in the college, and
its courses of study nave set standards
for other institutions. While thus en-
gaged in constant teaching and arduous
administrative work, Thurston was
equally occupied with investigation and
publication. He was the author of
eleven books and of some three hundred
papers. In tnis journal will be found
many of his more popular articles, and
in the present number we have the sad
privilege of publishing his last paper.
He was one of the editors of Science
and of Johnsons and Appletons Cyclo-
paedias. He was constantly engaged on
committees and commissions, and took
an active part in scientific and educa-
tional societies. He was three times
president of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science and
was first president of the American
Society of Alechanical Engineers.
INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION.
Science and education have always
ignored the boundaries of nations and
liave been important factors in pro-
moting peace and good-will. It is a
most extraordinary fact that there
should have been 10,000 students from
all parts of Europe at Bologne in the
thirteenth century. The origin of the
words ■ university and college ap-
pears to have been in the separation
of the students from different countries
into guilds, and the organization of the
stiidium generaJe was definitely based
on the division into nations. Teach-
ers, as well as students, migrated from
