TILE FEOGBESS OF SCIENCE.
191
siderable number from South America.
The American college was directly
modeled on the corresponding institu-
tions in England and Scotland, and it
would probably have been an advan-
tage, both educationally and from the
point of view of international rela-
tions, if we had kept in closer touch
with the British university. The will
of Cecil Rhodes was an attempt to
promote artificially such relations, and
there is every reason to believe that
it Avill meet with a fair degree of suc-
cess. Ninety students from the United
States residing at Oxford will con-
tribute to the development of the uni-
versity and will bring back to America
the traditions of English education
and culture. From the point of view
of this journal, the entrance require-
ments and part of the curriculum at
Oxford are a medieval survival, and
the opportunities for advanced work
in science are limited. But no one who
has been brought intimately in contact
with the Oxford life can fail to realize
its charm. The influence on a few
American students scattered over the
whole country will surely be of advan-
tage to them and to our relations with
Great Britain. The American university
presidents who have been given control
of the administration of the Rhodes
scholarships have decided to require
residence at an American college before
the student proceeds to Oxford. This
is contrary to the intentions of Mr.
Rhodes and appears to be scarcely
justifiable from an educational point
of view. For undergraduate work, Ox-
ford possesses peculiar attractions. It
would be better for a student to go
through the B.A. course at Oxford and
then pursue graduate studies in Ger-
many or America, rather than to re-
verse the order. It may be remarked
incidentally that Cambridge now offers
admirable opportunities for research
students in the natural and exact sci-
ences, quite equal to those of the Ger-
man universities, and that these should
be more largely used than is at present
the case.
A few years since America was al-
most outside the limits of European
vision. In order to meet foreign schol-
ars it was necessary for us to go
abroad. But these conditions are
changing rapidly. European men of
science, and scholars singly and in
groups, are continually going up and
down over the land. The most emi-
nent representatives of science and
learning from Great Britain, Germany,
France and other nations visit us in
order to teach and to learn. Just now,
for example, we are entertaining the
educational commission organized by
Mr. Mosely. Some thirty of the more
active and eminent British educators
were invited by Mr. Mosely to visit
America as his guests, in order to
make a study of our educational sys-
tem from the primary school to the
university. The commission includes
scientific men, such as Professors Arm-
strong, Ayrton, Frankland and Mac-
Lean. A visit of this character will
conduce to Anglo-American amity and
the improvement of educational meth-
ods. An even more interesting event is
promised for next year, when more
than a hundred leading European men
of science and scholars will visit the
United States to take part in the Con-
gress of Arts and Science, organized in
connection with the St. Louis Exposi-
tion.
MENTAL AND MORAL HEREDITY.
The Popul.\r Science Monthly has
had the privilege of printing two of
the four Huxley Memorial Lectures,
given before the Anthropological In-
stitute of Great Britain^that on Hux-
ley by Lord Avebury and that on the
Improvement of the Human Breed by
Dr. Francis Galton. The latter sub-
ject is continued by the last lecture of
the series given by Professor Karl
Pearson, who in general is carrying
forward the quantitative work on
heredity which owes so much to Dr.
