192
rOrULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Galton. Professor Pearson sent cir-
culars to a large number of teachers
asking them to grade pairs of brothers
and sisters for mental and moral traits,
such as popularity, conscientiousness,
probity, vivacity and general ability.
There proved to be a remarkable fra-
ternal resemblance, represented by a
regression line of one to two, exactly
the same as that found for physical
traits such as the cephalic index. Pro-
fessor Pearson concludes that mental
and physical heredity are equally po-
tent; mental traits are bred in the
bone and are not the result of training.
Great Britain could not help its posi-
tion among the nations by improving
its schools or by increasing technical
education. The trouble is that the less
able and the less energetic are more
fertile than the better stocks.
Professor Pearsons figures require
confirmation. The viriter of this note
once remarked on the resemblance of
some children to their mother; the re-
semblance became less obvious when he
was informed that she was their step-
mother. The fact that two children
are brothers may lead a teacher to re-
gard them as similar in mental traits.
But Professor Pearsons figures in any
case appear to be misinterpreted. If
the resemblance of brothers in physical
and mental traits is alike, we must
conclude, contrary to Professor Pear-
son, that the inheritance of physical
and mental traits is not equal. Asso-
ciation and similar home life have
some influence, however slight, on
traits such as temper and honesty.
It would be possible to argue from the
figures that mental traits are not
hereditary, the eflects of similar en-
vironment being equal in amount to
physical heredity.
SCIENTIFIC ITEMS.
The American Association for the
Advancement of Science with a large
number of affiliated societies, including
the American Society of Naturalists,
The American Chemical Society, The
American Physical Society, The As-
tronomical and Astrophysical Society
of America, the Botanical Society of
America, The American Anthropolog-
ical Association, The American Psy-
chological Association and others, meet
at St. Louis in convocation week, be-
ginning on December 28. We shall
give in the next issue a forecast of the
meeting, at present only calling atten-
tion to the importance of this meeting
and to the admirable arrangements
that have been made and urging the
privilege and importance of attendance,
both for professional scientific men and
for those who are interested in the
progress of science.
The Lawrence Scientific School of
Harvard University will receive a very
large sum, said to be more than $4,000,-
000, from the estate of the late Gordon
McKay.
President Schurman, of Cornell
University, has proposed the erection
of a new building for Sibley College,
in memory of the late Professor Thurs-
ton, to be known as Thurston Hall.-
The students of Sibley College have
voted to erect a bronze memorial tablet
in honor of Professor Thurston. — An
obelisk of unpolished grey granite has
been placed over Virchows grave in
the old Matthai graveyard, Berlin. It
bears on one side a black marble tab-
let, on which is inscribed Rudolf
Virchow and the date of his birth and
death. A statue of Virchow will also
be erected near the place where his
scientific work was conducted.
