1 6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
whole of Europe. The French poems of the trouveres were, in less
than a century, familiar in translations into German, Swedish, Nor-
wegian, Icelandic, Flemish, Dutch, Bohemian, Italian and Spanish.
A work composed at Morocco or Cairo was known at Paris or Cologne
in less time than is now-a-days required for an important book pub-
lished in Germany to cross the Ehine (Renan). To this intellectual
movement the commerce of the Jews powerfully contributed. If there
were any demand for a particular manuscript they promptly supplied
it. Books of science were, naturally, not multiplied with the same
rapidity as works on medicine and philosophy, but whatever demands
existed were supplied. A knowledge of Latin was widely spread among
the Jews. In the thirteenth century Solomon of Barcelona reproves
his co-religionaries of Provence for neglecting the study of Hebrew in
their eagerness to acquire the Eoman tongue.
Civic toleration has seldom been carried further than among the
Arabs in Spain. Cordova was preeminently the city of learning;
Seville of gaiety and music. Jews, Mohammedans and Christians were
on the same official footing and spoke the same language. Hebrew and
Spanish were often written in Arabic characters. John of Seville, a
christian bishop, translated the Bible into Arabic. In spite of the
opposition of the clergy mixed marriages were not very infrequent.
This fact indicates that toleration had already begun to penetrate the
mass of the people ; yet this must not be taken as a general conclusion,
for at the slightest sign religious feuds broke forth. It is probably more
true to conclude that tolerance was the mark of liberal princes. Jews
and Christians had a place among the Moors so long as their interests
did not clash. There was no real learning among the masses in Spain
or in Europe in the days of ignorance. The courts of princes, on the
other hand, were alive with intellectual curiosity.
Nothing was easier, however, than for a learned man to get a hear-
ing in Moslem countries before other men of his class. The case was
much the same at European universities. Any mosque would serve
the Moslem doctor for an audience-hall, and as nearly all mosques had
endowed schools attached to them, hearers were provided from the
outset. If the teacher was eloquent, pupils flocked to hear him by
hundreds. The subjects taught were jurisprudence, logic, philosophy,
medicine, mathematics, astronomy. All except the first were derived
directly from the Greeks, or from Arab commentators. Of Greek
literature, poetry, drama, the Arabs were absolutely ignorant. They
did not even know the distinction between Greek tragedy and comedy.
We may perhaps judge of the authority of Aristotle among them
by quoting from Averroes s edition of his works :
The author of this book, says the Arab commentator, is Aristotle,
wisest of the Greeks, who both founded and completed the sciences of Logic,
