196 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The messages are often elaborate, and surprise the writer quite as
much as they do the bystanders by their content. The upper con-
sciousness seems sometimes to cooperate in a faint way, sometimes
merely to permit, and sometimes to be entirely ignorant of what the
hand is doing. Occasionally the subject grows abstracted, and may
go into a sort of reverie or trance if the writing or drawing is pro-
longed. Sometimes, but apparently in a minority of cases, the hand
becomes insensible to pricking and pinching. Of the matters set
down and their peculiarities I will say nothing here, these words of
mine being merely introductory to a case of automatic drawing which
may be interesting to the general reader from its lack of complication
and its oddity.
The subject, C. H. P., married, fifty years old, made his living as
a bookkeeper until the autumn of 1901, when he fractured his spine in
an elevator accident. Since the accident he has been incapable of
carrying on his former occupation.
For several years previous to the accident, automatic hand-move-
ments, twitchings, etc., had occurred, but having no familiarity with
automatic phenomena Mr. P. thought they were mere nervousness,
and discouraged them. He thinks that drawing would have come
earlier had he understood the premonitory symptoms and taken a
pencil into his hand.
The hand movements grew more marked a few months after the
elevator accident, but the subject sees no definite reason for ascribing
to the accident any part in their production.
They were converted into definite movements of drawing by an
exhibition which he witnessed in Februar}-, 1903. The account which
follows is in Mr. P. s own words.
A friend who was interested in hypnotism introduced me to a man who
had some power as a hypnotist, and this man gave for our amusement a sample
of automatic drawing, a mans face in dotted outline, no shading or detail.
A*
The movement of his hand reminded me of the way my own hand frequently
acted, so the next day I sat down to a table with a pencil and paper, and
tracings were directly made; but it was some days before I made an object that
could be recognized, and I have never made dotted outlines like the man who
