20 2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE COLLEGE COUKSE.
By Professor JOHN J. STEVENSON,
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY.
MUCH of the discussion respecting utility of college training is
irrelevant, for success in life proves nothing on one side or the
other. Every observing man knows that the qualities on which success
depends are inborn. College instructors can not impart brains or
common sense, can not convert the sluggard into a model of industry;
can do little toward removing the vanity which resents advice. They
can make only an honest effort to cultivate the material provided by
nature.
The discussion has been too nearly academic, and the parties have
been wary of coming down to definite issues. The opponent of college
training is cautious about too detailed attack upon that with which
he is not familiar; while teachers, though united in defense of their
work, are not wholly agreed either as to its final purpose or as to the
method of attaining it. The lack of consensus respecting the mean-
ing of the term education, whether preparatory or collegiate, is a
weakness which opponents have been quick to see and to attack. The
purpose in mental training should be as definite as is that in physical
training. The latter is a new branch of educational work and the
instructors, fettered by no traditions, aim to make the man physically
good all around, without any reference whatever to his future calling.
In mental training there seems to be no longer any such clear-cut pur-
pose. All agree, of course, in the abstract proposition that the aim is
to make the man useful — but, for what?
The medieval theory of education looked to the utilization of the
individual for himself. Education being for the privileged few, to fit
men for the proper enjoyment of leisure, for the Latin priesthood or
to expound Roman law, the relations and the duties of the few to the
many were ignored. There resulted a narrow curriculum with close
attention to detail, which gave accuracy, certainly very wonderful, but,
like that of the microscope, in a very limited field. The modern
theory, developing slowly after men were emancipated from the thral-
dom of the church, more rapidly after the study of nature by observa-
tion was born again, regarded the individual not as the whole, but as
part of the whole, recognizing the basal principle that No man liveth
unto himself. It demanded that man be so trained as to be of the
