THE COLLEGE COURSE. 203
utmost use not to himself only, but to his fellows also. It asserted that
a man must earn the right to live by being of service, and denied that
training along the prevalent narrow lines was education in the proper
sense. It ridiculed the pretensions of a system which boasted of its
success in producing men whose scholarship was proved by volumes
filled with quotations illustrating the use of Latin or Greek particles;
it demanded a training which should develop all sides of the man and
fit him for the exigencies of active life as contrasted with that of the
cloister.
Efliorts made in our country sixty years ago to remodel the curri-
culum so as to satisfy both sides are spoken of as absurd, because they
were not radical. They were not absurd; they were the first steps
along an untried way. Educational institutions were controlled by
medievalists, and the doctrine was ingrained that instruction belonged
to the province of the christian minister as much as did the pulpit ; the
whole system had grown up under the requirements of the church and
under the limitations permitted by the church; so that, in considering
the change, those in charge found themselves at a loss. Their Latin
was no longer a modern language, it was no longer the common
tongue of learned men; Greek, at best, had been only a luxury. The
study of material things, having led men to doubt respecting some
matters of religious belief which had come down without challenge
from antiquity, was tainted with suspicion of sacrilege; of its true
nature they were wholly ignorant. The best that could be done was
done; within college walls, the classical languages gradually ceased to
be living languages, came to be regarded as dead languages, their words
were used as medium for teaching a kind of universal grammar, and the
average student, after spending a round dozen of years in the so-
called study of Latin, thought himself uncommonly accomplished if
he were able to read his diploma without resort to a lexicon or grammar.
The course leading up to the degree, for there was but one degree, was
broadened gradually so as to embrace additional subjects. But until
fifty years ago it consisted in most colleges of linguistics, that is to say,
Latin and Greek with practical neglect of English, a notable amount
of pure mathematics, a medley of courses in history and philosophy,
with a trifle of natural science. In some institutions, additional
branches were inserted, the courses were differentiated and a new degree
was granted to those who, neglecting the classical languages, had taken
instead modern languages and somewhat extended work in natural
science.
The concessions to the claims of natural science were made grudg-
ingly; the study of nature was looked upon by educated men gener-
ally as a rather low-lived pursuit, not to be encouraged, as it led men
away from man, mans noblest study. But there were those who felt
