204 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
intuitively that it was not safe to entrust the education of their children
to men whose circle of vision was so contracted. A reaction came ; and
when it came, the pendulum, as was to be expected; swung too far in the
opposite direction. Semi-technical schools were established, which
soon became either purely technical or purely scientific, in each case
thrusting aside almost wholly the literary studies of the older system.
These appeared to meet the requirement of the time and quickly grew
to gi-eat importance, in some cases overshadowing older institutions
near at hand. They gave degrees, commonly the scientific baccalau-
reate, of the college; in many cases they were incorporated with uni-
versities and at length stood on the same footing with the schools of
law, medicine or theology. They admitted students at the same age
as did the colleges, though the entrance requirements in some directions
were less rigid. But those requirements were made more and more
severe until it became necessary to increase college requirements; and
this in turn led to increased requirements as well as to elevation in
grade of instruction in law and medicine with, as a final outcome, a
lengthening of the course in these two departments — while in some
institutions a bachelors degree became a prerequisite for the pro-
fessional diploma. The results of these varied changes have been dis-
astrous in several ways to the college and to college training.
The outcome was inevitable in one direction. Two schoolmates,
leaving the preparatory school together, go for advanced study to the
same institution; one enters the college on the scientific side, to take
a course in cultural studies; the other enters the technical school to
become an engineer. The boys meet on the same campus almost every
day; for a time, they may meet occasionally in the same class-room;
they speak in both cases of being at college. At the close of four years,
each receives the degree of B.S., one in pure science, the other in
engineering. To their friends, the degree is the same in both cases;
but it is not, as the friends quickly discover; the engineer has now a
profession and is ready to begin his lifes work, whereas the other is
still confronted with a course of three or four years, if professional
work be his aim.
It was natural that a demand for shortening of the college period
should be made, that there should be a cry to save the early years of
the mans life. It was said that increased requirements for entrance
had made it impossible for men to graduate at sixteen or eighteen as
they did fifty years ago; that the advance in grade of instruction had
made the man who completes the junior year fully equal to the graduate
of fifty years ago. But this argument can not hold. The average of
college graduates, as appears from study of alumni catalogues, is very
little greater to-day than it was thirty or forty years ago, and, in any
event, there is no reason why it ought to be greater. That requirements
