THE COLLEGE COURSE. 205
along some lines have been increased is true, but one must not forget
that opportunity for preparation has been increased to a much greater
extent. Fifty years ago, schools offering good preparation for college
were rare in agricultural districts, and young men in such districts
were dependent upon the country clergyman for preparation. Now,
however, secondary schools are within reach in almost all parts of our
country and a farmer boy can be made ready for college at almost as
early age as the city boy. Despite these facts, the cry was heeded,
the college period was shortened and, in a number of our universities,
professional study during the last year of the college course counts
toward both college and professional degree; so that from entrance
into college to final graduation with professional degree in law, the
period is the same as it was years ago, when the course was one year
shorter, or one year less than it was forty years ago in institutions
where the course has not been lengthened ; forty years ago, the medical
degree was reached in six years, now it is obtained in seven, though
the professional course has been lengthened by two years. The sug-
gestion has been made that the time spent at college should be short-
ened still further and that mere training should be thrown back upon
the secondary schools. This plan, if adopted, would bring little relief,
for, no doubt, the secondary schools, in their anxiety to avoid oppressing
their pupils, would find it necessary to insist on still shorter lessons
and on ampler time for recreation, so that nothing would be saved in
time unless the college period be shortened still further — at last to
extinction.
The injury has been more serious in another direction.
In all fairness, one must concede that the regular college course
of twenty or twenty-five years ago, despite the preponderance of class-
ical teaching, had gained so far by the introduction of new subjects
that it did give a broad aspect of things to the average student. It
offered such a thorough taste of many branches of learning as to let
him find where his strength lay. Even forty years ago it had developed
much along the same lines in the larger colleges as well as in the
newer of the small colleges. But specialization grew up rapidly in
the scientific schools and this example, reinforced by a popular demand
for broader opportunities of selection, led to specialization in college
work. Practically the old college course has disappeared in many of
the more prominent institutions, and in its stead one finds broad
election in some, narrow groups in others. In some, a compulsory
broad course is the freshmans lot, but in higher classes the student
follows a chosen group, in which some special branch absorbs most of
his time, all others being subordinate; in others, election begins with
the sophomore year and is nominally almost unfettered, though adroit
manipulation of the recitation schedule may impose serious limitations.
