2o6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
University methods of instruction have been introduced and laboratory
work is made an imjaortant feature, to the exclusion of information
courses, which should go toward making the student a well-informed
man. Even the high schools have been infected, and in one city, at
least, the lad of fourteen has the opportunity to elect a considerable
part of his studies.
The whole system of groups or of wide election in the earlier years
is based upon an erroneous conception of the proper aim of college
work. No considerable proportion of American students are com-
petent to decide at the outset of the college career or even at the close
of the freshman year what studies they should pursue ; nor in the vast
majority of cases are the parents competent to decide the question.
One is told that the German student is but nineteen years old when he
enters the university, where all courses are open; and then is asked if
he is prepared to assert that the American boy is less capable than the
German boy. The question of capability or non-capability has noth-
ing to do with the matter. When American secondary schools attain
to the grade of the German gymnasium and American boys are com-
pelled to undergo severe preparatory training such as is given in the
gymnasium, they will be at least as competent to make a choice as are
the German boys. But that matter is neither here nor there in this
connection, for the training in our secondary schools is too frequently
such as to cause only pain and annoyance to college instructors. The
wliole system is wrong, in view of the imperfect preliminary drill
received by our students. No physical director would permit a hollow-
chested, slender-armed sophomore to confine himself to leg exercises,
merely because he has chosen book-canvassing as his lifes work. Yet
such freedom is allowed in the vastly more important matter of mental
training; a sophomore who thinks he intends to become a clergyman is
permitted to confine his attention to classics and literature; another,
who finds mathematics distasteful and acquiring a vocabulary irksome,
is permitted to select a course omitting those subjects, because he
expects to be a lawyer; while another has the opportunity to select a
still narrower course because he has medicine in view. So men pass
through college, some to reach the ministry as leaders of thought
and at the same time to be laughing stocks for the children of the
parish, because ignorant of the works of the God whom they preach;
others to become lawyers and to find themslves shut out from the most
important branches of practise, because ignorant of the fundamental
principles of science; others still to become physicians and to find
themselves handicapped in the race by inability to communicate their
thoughts in direct language ; while most of them enter life s struggle
with a stock of ignorance utterly discreditable to a young man of the
twentieth century. The error throughout is due to forgetfulness of
the fact that the college is a training not a professional school.
