THE COLLEGE COURSE. 207
That our present method or lack of method is successful, no one
asserts. The practical shortening of the college course to three years
and the proposition to shorten it still further are in themselves con-
fessions of failure. They are more than that; they are acknowledg-
ment that, in the competition between colleges, the race for degrees
has been made so easy that all the mental training given in the four
years course can be given readily in three if not in two. And this
acknowledgment appears to be not wholly unreasonable. As matters
now stand, there is ample time even in the three years for men to
complete the course for A.B. or B.S. creditably, while in addition they
take elaborate courses in glee clubs, baseball, football, amateur journal-
ism and other branches of learning, which require not only much time
at home, but also frequent absences and excursions during term time.
The correctness of the conclusion is made more evident by the fact
that men following these collateral pursuits are required to maintain a
fair standing in their classes. A fine degree of skill in determining
the minimum degree of required work is attained by many of them;
and their example is not altogether without influence upon their
fellows, for it is well known that among students the dig is a some-
what disreputable character. There is no room for surprise when one
discovers that business men often look upon the college course as four
years of training in the science of shirk and regret that social require-
ments compel them to send their boys to college.
The evil can not be corrected by shortening the college period. In
truth, this proposition to shorten the period evidences another erroneous
conception of the purpose of the college itself — a conception which
seems to be gaining wide currency. The college is not an institution
whose chief function is that of conferring degrees. This certainly
seems to be the conception of many outside of the colleges as well as of
not a few within, for there appears to be no end of ingenious methods
whereby those who can not attend college may find a way of passing
examinations, of receiving degrees and of becoming enrolled among
the alumni, meanwhile adding to the glory of their college by swelling
its numbers.
A thoughtful consideration of the conditions in American colleges
reveals the fact that, during the last forty years, a great change has
come about in the relations of instructors and students. In many
respects this has been greatly to the advantage of both, but in others
very much to their disadvantage. College matters have been adapted
largely to accord with wishes of the students ; the young men determine
almost wholly the details of their courses; they regulate in no small
degree the general conduct of matters so that a positive assertion of
faculty authority causes surprise and is apt to arouse resentment;
athletic associations complain bitterly because stringent rules are
