2o8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
made by the authorities; editors of college publications rebel against
rebukes or censures for indecent or scurrilous attacks upon officers of
the institution and are ready to denounce them as interference with
the liberty of the press. It would appear as if the college faculty, in
the opinion of too many students, is an inconvenient and somewhat
disagreeable, but unfortunately necessary, appendage to the student
body.
Clearly enough, the change has not been altogether for good. The
old adage says He who would command must first learn to obey. It
is but the expression of human experience. That American lads are
sorely in need of such training is only too evident; but they can not
get it in secondary schools dependent upon tuition fees for their sup-
port. Such training means more — training to think, to reason. Lads
too often fail to receive this training in secondary schools, as any in-
structor who has to deal with freshmen can testify. In any event, the
secondary schools of to-day can not give this training in its complete-
ness, for they have not become fully adjusted to the suddenly expanded
requirements for admission to college or scientific or technical school,
and in their present state of development are little better than cram-
ming houses to fit pupils to answer odds and ends of questions in
papers for entrance examinations. Loose thinking and restlessness
under constraint characterize the American student in the lower
classes at college; lack of home training may be responsible in part
for the latter characteristic; inferior teaching in secondary schools
is largely responsible for the former.
The corrective for the evils which beset our colleges is not transfer
of the training to secondary schools, which can not give it, but a return
to the college organization of twenty-five years ago, to the college with
{1 course four years long, mainly compulsory, with little election prior
to the senior year — not to the old course in its narrowness but to the
old course with its compulsion and with increased severity. Four years
are none too long for the necessary moral and intellectual discipline,
and the graduate, who afterward enters law or medicine, will still be
so young as to make clients and patients hesitate to employ him. If
the cry for earlier admission to professional schools must be heeded,
lessen the entrance requirements for the college — though even that
might fail : the increasing solicitude of parents for the health of their
sons and the schoolmasters canny dread of pushing pupils too rapidly
are familiar phenomena. The course should be a broad one, embracing
linguistics, philosophy, mathematics and natural science, each term
being used in its wide sense, and each group in proper proportion to
its importance to-day. Every branch should be so taught as to give
mental training and at the same time knowledge, that at graduation
the faithful student may have laid the foundation for becoming a well
