2IO POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE FUNCTIONS OF MUSEUMS: A EE-SUEVEY.
By F. a. bather, M.A., D.Sc. (OxoN),
PRESIDENT OF THE MUSEUMS ASSOCIATION ; BRITISH MUSEUM, NATURAL HISTORY.
WE are rapidly approaching, and some parts of the world have
already reached, that millennium desired by the writer — was
it not Professor E. S. Morse? — who exclaimed Public libraries in
every town! then why not public museums? With this increase in
number has come a change of function, or at least an added function
or two. Such a change is in the nature of an adaptation to the new
surroundings, and is necessary for the vigorous life and propagation
of the modern type of museum. How great the change is may be
realized by contrasting, let us say, the American Museum of Natural
History, which not only arranges attractive exhibits, but makes them
known by its popular Journal, with some museums in Europe that
still appear to be maintained in the interests of their staff, while the
public is only admitted for a few hours each week, to gape at an un-
organized crowd of objects which it can not comprehend. The student
of science or of art who has to make his living as a curator in a public
museum, which is public in fact and not merely in name, often envies
those colleagues who, undisturbed by the profanum vulgus, spend a
peaceful life in original research, such as he can only squeeze in at the
close of a hard days work. But in America and Britain we can never
go back to those old days when visitors, after securing tickets by
prayer of some high person, assembled at the gate of the British
Museum and were conducted around it by a verger wiih a livery and
a black wand as his chief qualifications for the task. Nor indeed can
we now find ourselves in the position of that eager spinster, who,
after many a vain attempt, journeyed from her suburban residence
through mire and fog to those giant portals. Which department,
Madam? said the majestic policeman on the threshold. Oh! just
a general look around, thank you. Museum closed to-day, Mum,
except for students. Back on a bus to Brompton, and No more
British Museum for me !
No, the times have changed and are still changing. A stage in the
advance was marked when Flower and Brown Goode gave us their
masterly surveys of museum organization. They laid down the lines on
which we have all been working. But still the outer conditions are
changing, and in some respects we fail to keep pace. The occasion for
