THE FUNCTIONS OF MUSEUMS. 211
a re-survey of the situation recently presented itself to me, and I was
led to the conclusion that a redisposition of our forces was required
if we were to cope adequately with the difficulties of the present situa-
tion. On that occasion, however, I had another object in view, and
alluded to this question only so far as was necessary to explain certain
proposals with regard to art-museums.* The subject is too important
to be dealt with as a side-issue, and so I wish to discuss some aspects of
it a little more fully.
Let us then consider the main purposes of museums, and see first
how each of them may best be worked out, and secondly how they may
be combined when necessary.
First, then: What are the functions of museums? Multifarious
though they are, the more important of them may be placed under
three heads :
(a) The collection and preservation of material for study by ex-
perts, so that they may widen the bounds of knowledge. The ultimate
aim of this function may be summed up in one word — investigation.
() The collection, preservation and exhibition of material for
the education of less advanced students and for the assistance of
amateurs. The provision for students covers such collections and ex-
hibitions as samples of textiles for the use of weavers, specimens of
wood-carving and of wrought iron for the workers in wood and in
metal, plaster cases, paintings and engravings for students of the
plastic and graphic arts, anatomical preparations for medical students,
series of natural objects or of physical apparatus and the like for young
people taking their B.Sc. The term amateurs is a convenient one
to include the field-naturalists who come to a museum to identify their
captures, the collector of coins, of postage stamps or of china, who
wishes to verify some recent acquisition, and, in short, the many lovers
of art, who without being artists, art critics or connoisseurs, yet enjoy
the examination of even inferior productions of some school or period
in which they have assumed an interest. For students and amateurs
alike, this function of the museum may briefly be expressed as in-
struction.
(c) The selection and display of material in such a way as to attract
the general public, to provide for its members intellectual and esthetic
pleasure, and so eventually to interest them in noble things outside the
daily groove. Any one who visits a museum, or any portion of a
museum, not as a specialist or student, but as a sight-seer, is to be
regarded as one of the general public. To every such layman, learned
or unlearned, the museum should help to give that higher and broader
* Museums Association. Aberdeen Conference, 1903. Address by the
President, Museums Journal, III., pp. 71-94, 110-132 and 36 plates; Septem-
ber and October, 1903.
