212 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
outlook on life for which we have no better name than culture. In a
word, the third great function of a museum is inspiration.
It must be recognized clearly that these three functions — investi-
gation, instruction and inspiration — are quite distinct from one
another. Their point of contact lies in the fact that all are carried out
by institutions in which material objects are assembled; and that there
is any contact at all depends partly on the convenience of utilizing the
same objects for different purposes, and partly on the economy of
employing one staff of curators (or one curator) instead of three. But
the distinctness of the functions will be realized by taking the stand-
point of the several visitors ; for they constitute separate and mutually
intolerant groups: the specialist disdainful of the amateur and ignor-
ing the public, the amateur and college student with an absurd rever-
ence for those specialists whom they have not yet found out, and the
public gaping at the spectacled enthusiast with a mildly contemptuous
pity. The same individual may come into each of these classes, but,
so far as any one branch of knowledge is concerned, he does so at
different periods : first, as a member of the public, he receives the
inspiration; then, after learning something in the field or in the class-
room, he comes to the museum for further instruction; finally, he ad-
vances to the ranks of the researchers and finds in our cabinets
material for investigation.
From what has been said it follows that, in considering how a
museum may best fulfil these main functions, or, in other words, best
serve these three classes of visitors, we shall do well to treat them
distinctly.
Beginning with the function of investigation, we see that a mu-
seum serves investigators by collecting and preserving fresh material
for research, or by accumulating standard historical specimens, such as
those which in systematic biology are known as types.
An enquiry into the methods of collection scarcely falls within the
scheme of this survey; but I should like to express my conviction that,
in general, the best results are obtained when a definite purpose is
clearly kept in view. If expeditions are sent out, they should be
specially equipped and informed towards the acquisition of particular
specimens. If purchases are made, they should be, not of miscellaneous
collections, but of preselected objects. The curator should know what
his museum wants, and should bend his energies to obtaining those
things and those alone. He should resist the temptation of cheap bar-
gains. But when temptation comes as a present, and the donor is a
patron who may not be offended — what then? Well, then the curator
without a settled plan must open his mouth and shut his eyes, take
what the millionaire sends him, and pray for a speedy release. But
donors generally mean well, and even a millionaire may have com-
