214 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
too large for such treatment, or otherwise incapable of being kept in
drawers. The usual solution (if so it can be called) is to place such
objects on public exhibition, because in the public galleries alone can
room be found for them, or the show-cases are the only receptacles big
enough for them. This method of storing such specimens is opposed
to all the requirements of the investigator, and has the additional
defects of disturbing the harmonious arrangement of the exhibition-
gallery, and of distracting the public with a multitude of unsuitable
objects. For all parties, then, it were better to shut off a portion of
the exhibition space and to devote it to storage alone.
Passing now to the function of instruction, we have to see how a
museum may best serve students and amateurs. To its activities of
collecting and preserving, it must add a third — that of exhibiting
specimens.
The remarks on collecting need no repetition. As regards the other
activities, two essentials must be kept in view. First, the need of the
student to handle specimens in certain instances. Secondly, access for
him to a fairly large series of accurately labeled specimens, the hand-
ling of which is not as a rule required.
The objects to be handled, which need not be very numerous, must
be kept in such a way that their removal does not interfere with the
exhibited series, does not require the prolonged attendance of a member
of the staff, and does not give much trouble in unlocking, checking
and so forth. For this purpose, therefore, it is as well to have a
sample collection, stored in a workroom, or placed on its walls; and in
this room might be posted an attendant, who would usually be carrying
on his regular work.
The series not as a rule to be handled might be kept either in cases
or in stop-drawers, under glass. Wliat is important is that it should
not interfere with or encroach on the public exhibits, for the follow-
ing reasons: The public distracts the student; the student, with his
chair and his own specimens, or his note-books, or his easel, gets in the
way of the public; the explanatory labels useful to this class of stu-
dent are too advanced for the general public and act as a deterrent;
and here again the mere multitude of specimens, frequently of re-
stricted interest, is but a source of weariness to the lay mind.
On these grounds the rooms for the technical series should be set
apart, and should be in connection with a library whence books might
be taken into them. The specimens on exhibition might be as numer-
ous as space allow^ed, so long as needless duplication was avoided.
There would be no need for elaborate methods of mounting; it is only
essential that each specimen, with its label, should be clearly visible.*
* Only to those familiar with museums will this remark appear a needless
truism.
