THE FUNCTIONS OF MUSEUMS. 215
The last function^ that of inspiring the layman with an interest
in the subject-matter of the museum, demands adherence to two leading
principles. First, only a few specimens should be shown, and those
the best obtainable. Secondly, the arrangement of the objects must
both arrest attention and give pleasure, so that the visit may be re-
peated. Here, then, we speak not so much of collection and exhibi-
tion as of selection and display. In these two respects, as well as
in minor details, such as the nature of the labels, the spaciousness of
the rooms and the absence of any need for handling, the requirements
of the lay public are, if not always opposed to, at least different from,
those of either investigators or students.
Thus far then, we are, I trust, agreed not only that museums have
three distinct classes of visitors, but that the proper methods of fulfill-
ing those functions are likewise distinct. Possibly these considerations
may help the curator to find an answer, when he asks the question:
What exactly is the object of my museum and how nearly do I
attain it?
The curator, however, may fear that, since museums are so various,
and the activities even of a single museum so numerous and diverse,
therefore the question can only admit of a confused and futile answer.
This complexity may be partly disentangled if he realizes that museums
may be classified in various ways. For instance, according to their
subject-matter, as of geology, fine-art, archeology, sanitation and the
rest. So far as this is concerned the answer to the question is in each
case obvious and needs no discussion here.
Another point of view is that of their financial relations to the
community. A museum may be under national, provincial or munici-
pal control; it may be run by some semi-public body, — a university, a
local society, or a trade guild ; it may be a purely private concern
— the secluded treasure of a dilettante, the money-making show of a
company, or the freely open halls of a philanthropist. This classifica-
tion indicates the class of visitor for whom the museum is intended:
the guild museum for the members of a trade, the university museum
for the university student, and the state museum for all sorts and
conditions of men. But the connection is not inevitable.
Omitting other possible classifications, we find that the only one
bearing on the curators problem is that according to the visitors either
actual or desired. In its main lines this follows our classification of
the functions of a museum under three heads. Few museums, however,
have their scope so rigorously defined, though in some cases, as just
suggested, it is, or should be, defined by circumstances.
Perhaps the most usual restriction is to that group of functions above
comprehended under instruction. Here and here alone come the teach-
ing collections of a university, the technological museum for artisans.
