i8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not find, as in those of other philosophers, secret matters only to be
expounded after they are dead. Avicenna explains the views of others
and conceals his own, and avows that beside his published works he
has written a treatise in which he has expounded philosophy according
to Nature and Eeason alone. This was his Oriental Philosophy, now
lost, if indeed it was ever current. On this declaration of Avicenna,
Eoger Bacon comments : The naked truth cannot be told. Avicenna
well knew that the envy and pride of his rivals, and the folly of the
multitude forced him to speak like all the world in his published works,
and he knew that he could only think the pure doctrine of Science for
the few, The pure doctrine of Avicenna was a pure pantheism —
God was identified with the revolving spheres. Bacon expressly
rejected this identification without ever knowing what Avicenna s last
word was.
Students flocked to schools wherever the desired instruction was
provided, as indeed, they always had done. In the sixth century Lis-
mores learned isle, off the bleak Scottish coast of Oban, was visited
by scholars from every part of Europe. In the twelfth, the Moorish
universities held some students from countries as distant as England
as well as many from Italy and France. To seek for the situations
of the foci of learning in different centuries would be a curious inquiry.
The excursion would extend from Turkistan to Tunis and Toledo.
Consider also the narrations of the voyages of travelers that began
to be current. Benjamin of Tudela (1173) visited regions so distant
as Samarkand and India. Jean Carpin, the Franciscan, was sent
(1246) by Pope Innocent IV. on a mission to the Tartars, and Kubru-
quis (1253) to the same people by St. Louis. Marco Polo returned
from China and India in 1295. Sir John Mandevilles travels in the
orient (in the middle of the fourteenth century) were recorded by him
in three languages and were copied everywhere in Europe. Consider,
also, that well traveled trade routes existed throughout the nearer east
and that the products of all the orient were familiar to the cities of
Italy and southern France. The minds of men were opened by the
recitals of the experiences of returning travelers. Abbey schools and
great universities were everywhere to be found. The learning of the
time was within the reach of multitudes.
What the mathematical courses in the English universities were,
even in the sixteenth century, is illustrated by a curious passage from
the Oxford lectures of Sir Henry Savile (1549-1622) : By the grace
of God, gentlemen hearers, I have performed my promise; I have re-
deemed my pledge. I have explained, according to my ability the
definitions, postulates, axioms and the first eight propositions of the
Elements of Euclid — eight propositions ! Dante in the Convito gives
the classic scheme of studies in European universities slightly modified
