2i6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and the gallery of plaster casts for art-students. Frequently, too, the
museum of a local society is intended solely to preserve natural or
artificial objects for reference by the collectors and amateurs who con-
stitute its members.
Scarcely any museum can nowadays be regarded as the strict pre-
serve of investigators. In fact, the total number of museums whose
main function it is to amass vast collections for the advancement of
knowledge can never be very great; indeed, the smaller the better.
The scattering of material and of the necessary literary apparatus
through thousands of towns would not conduce to either economy or
efficiency. Concentration permits of comparison, better equipment,
a larger and more highly trained staff, while it necessitates the inter-
course of fellow-workers and leads to interchange of ideas. Such a
museum should be a great organization for research, with laboratories,
libraries, studios and publications, with a staff of investigators, prepa-
rators, artists, photographers, copyists and the usual servants. I have
not mentioned curators, believing any attempt to separate them from
investigators to be a false economy.
Museums entirely devoted to the inspiration of the lay public are
hard to find. But they exist in theory if not in practice; and theo-
rectically too the encouragement of art and science among the populace
is the main reason for the establishment of most museums, especially
the municipal.
Now, where museums come to grief is in attempting to sit on these
three stools, or rather through not distinguishing clearly enough that
the stools are three and that they are of very different nature.
A small museum with small means should make the choice of not
more than two out of the three; and the function to be dropped
should, in my opinion, be investigation. JSTot that the curators of
small museums should be warned off the field of original work; but
the museum should neither amass nor preserve specimens of interest
chiefly to specialists. From the two remaining functions, instruction
and inspiration, it should select the one more appropriate to the con-
ditions of its existence and spend its energies on that.
Many a large museum, on the other hand, is able to undertake
all three functions, and if it be supported out of public funds, it is its
duty so to do. It is not enough to provide admirably for two classes
of visitors, and to suppose that the same provision will satisfy the third
class. On the contrary, the more thoroughly the wants of any two
classes are supplied, the more will the third class be left out in the cold.
Take the case of a large museum of any subject. Usually an
attempt is made to combine all three functions in one series of rooms
and cases. For the sake of the collectors and amateurs, a large num-
ber of objects is exhibited; and this perplexes the public. For the
