THE FUNCTIONS OF MUSEUMS. 217
sake of students, too, technical terms and labels are introduced; these
are above the ordinary visitor and disgust him. For the sake of the
public, on the other hand, much space, time and money are devoted
to elaborate mounting of the objects. This, in itself to be commended,
and practicable when restricted to a selected series, sets a standard
that is far too high for application to all the thousands of exhibited
specimens, since this extension of it absorbs energy that were better
emplo5^ed in other directions, and renders the specimens less accessible
to both investigator and student. Again, much of the material amassed
for the specialist is not readily stored, and, finding its way into the
show-cases, detracts from their effect and overweights both layman and
student.
For such a museum then, I suggest a tripartite arrangement of
the collections, corresponding with the three functions.
First, there would be a stored series, in drawers, or special cases,
or private rooms, so arranged as to be easily transferred to the work-
rooms, and reserved for the use of specialists or researchers.
The series for students may assume two forms. One, a collection of
objects to be handled, best stored in a private room and immediately
accessible to accredited students. The other, a large exhibited series,
under glass when advisable, arranged systematically and properly
labeled, but without superfluous niceties of mounting. This should
be kept in galleries to which access could be had on application to an
attendant. The general public should not be permitted to wander
freely through them, and especially should loving couples and infants
in arms be warned off. It would probably be a sufficient barrier if
each visitor were required to write his or her name and address in a
book kept at the entrance.
Finally, there would be other rooms for a smaller series of care-
fully selected objects, so arranged as to make the utmost appeal to
the great public.
The fundamental distinction between the series for research and
that for public exhibition has long been realized by directors of natural
history museums, and has been strenuously urged by Flower and
Brown Goode. The directors of art-museums are just beginning to
apprehend it ; but even the best museums of natural history are still far
from the ideal upheld, not for the first time, in Flowers address to the
British Association fourteen years ago. If I may judge from my own
limited experience, the chief reason for this failure is the existence of
those two distinct types of visitor, the layman and the student. We
are obliged in self-defence to exhibit far more specimens than we know
to be good for the public, because if we did not we should be doing
little else than answering the enquiries of amateurs, and unlocking
drawers for all manner of students. Moreover, in the absence of
