2i8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
proper store-cabinets, and especially of interchangeable drawers, our
reduced and over-worked staff finds it less trouble to thrust a new
acquisition into a show-case than to make room for it in the confused
and crowded study-series.
It is to obviate such difficulties that I propose the further division
of the exhibited series. In this way more specimens can be exhibited
for the student and amateur with less trouble and expense, and in a
more practical manner, as, for example, on interchangeable trays or
frames, which can as needed be removed for the use of the specialist.
The student will no longer be disturbed by the loud-voiced pastor or
by urchins at hide-and-seek, and the elimination of crowds will permit
a saving in floor and cubic space. The public galleries in their turn
will be freed from students with their apparatus and from inappro-
priate specimens, while such objects as remain can be displayed in a
more becoming manner. ;
It is easy enough to see where we have gone wrong. The advance
towards democracy has been too rapid, the revolution too complete.
We have thrown open everything to the public, to the publics bewilder-
ment and our own undoing. The lot of a curator in a large museum
is not altogether a happy one. Surrounded by the treasures that his
heart longs for, he must maintain them for the use and enjoyment of
others, while, Tantalus-like, he himself is unable to reach them. He
consoles himself with the thought that he is a martyr for the good of
humanity, and he has not seen how to shift his ever-increasing burden.
The suggestions here made will, I believe, benefit the specialist, the
student and the man in the street; but the argument most likely to
secure their adoption is that they will also benefit the curator. If con-
sistently and boldly carried out, they would result in a saving of expense
on architecture and installation, so leaving more money for actual
work on the collections ; and they would, in the various ways that I have
indicated, effect a saving of time, thus permitting the curator to make
better use of the material at his command. In this firm belief, I ask
for these proposals the serious consideration of the large number of
people who to-day are interested in museums.
