THE ERUPTION OF PELEE. 219
THE ERUPTION OF PELEE, JULY 9, 1902.
By Professor T. A. JAGGAR, Jr.
HARVARD UNIVERSITY.
ADESCEIPTIOISr of the scene of devastation in Martinique was
published by the writer in this magazine in August, 1902.
Some of the readers of The Popular Science Monthly may be
interested in the details of a great eruption, and scientific deductions
from observation of the same; the present article aims to present the
results of such observation. The writer returned to Martinique from
Barbados in June, 1902, and had the good fortune to see an eruption
of first magnitude on Mount Pelee. On the evening of the ninth of
July, he was in Fort de France, and the commission sent out by the
Royal Society, Drs. Tempest Anderson and John S. Flett, were living
on board the sloop Minerva near Carbet; thus the scientific record kept
of this eruption was unusually complete.
At 8 :15 in the evening, just at twilight, there was seen from
Fort de France a very high column of black dust with the character-
istic cauliflower surface, boiling straight up from the direction of the
volcano to an enormous height (compare Fig. 1). The blackness of
this dust cloud increased, the bulbous profile gave place to a smooth
balloon-shaped outline slightly flattened above, and from the moment
that the interior of the cloud first became obscure, small spicular
lightnings were seen dancing like a myriad of bright white sparks all
over the cloud surface. At first this whole extraordinary display was
perfectly silent; the writer was called out from the public library in
Fort de France by an attendant at about 8:20 p.m., and there was a
singularly oppressive stillness noticeable. When the phenomenon was
first observed in the streets, some slight disturbance akin to panic had
been audible, but the people as a whole had grown so callous to these
happenings, that after a few moments very few individuals seemed to
take any note of the extraordinary phenomena in the northwestern sky.
At 8:30 the cloud had the form of a balloon, swelling rapidly to
the zenith, and filling with its diameter perhaps 70° of the sky
north-northwest. The wonderful coruscations grew more brilliant,
leaping rapidly from place to place over the surface of the cloud, but at
first they had the form of points of light, rather than lines. There
was no thunder accompanying these early flashes, and their frequency
was incessant, the whole cloud surface fairly scintillating with dancing
lights.
