2 20 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Gradually a sound became perceptible, which at no time developed
into loud detonations. It was rather a bubbling growl, far away, differ-
ent from thunder, and continuous. It lasted an hour, and varied in
intensity; this noise was undoubtedly occasioned by the expansion of
steam released from the craters throat, accompanied by the tumble of
a volcanic avalanche on the flanks of the mountain and at the crater.
The distance of Fort de France from the crater, as the crow flies, is
fourteen miles. The weather was very calm, with only a faint breeze
from the direction of the volcano during the early stages of the
eruption.
The writer climbed to the ridge-pole of the roof of the Hotel Ivanes,
while an attendant held a candle at the open dormer window below,
and the flame was not disturbed by any considerable breeze. On the
high roof, the stillness of the tropical night was relieved by nothing
but the simmering hum of tree-toads and crickets, and the very faint
distant rumble, at that time barely audible. Here, remote from the
odors of the town, there was an extremely faint odor of sulphur
(sulphurous acid). At 8:50 a wave was noticed on the wharves at
Fort de France, the water receding and returning through a total
vertical distance of about two feet. About the same time the recently
repaired cable of the telegraph company ceased to make connections;
it was probably broken by submarine landslips.
During the next twenty minutes the balloon or spoon-shaped cloud
spread rapidly southward until nearly the whole horizon was obscured
with the exception of a narrow strip of starlit sky, the middle of which
lay S. 20° E. To the north-northeast could be seen fringing
showers, four or five in number, showing as vertical streaks against the
horizon in that direction. These were believed at the time to repre-
sent local dust falls. At 9:10 a similar curtain was seen N. 60° W.
At 9:15 some rain fell at Fort de France, but this lasted only about
five minutes. At 9 :18 the smoothly curved edge of the dust lowered
to and merged with the horizon S. 30° E. A very remarkable flash of
lightning at this time shot across the northern sky, making a complete
loop overturned to the northeast with the ends downward towards the
volcano. It was described by one of the bystanders as balloon light-
ning, and had somewhat the aspect of a huge incandescent bulb,
outlined by a streak of light that swept in a tremendous curve across
the zenith. The bulbous effect was probably produced by the illumina-
tion of one of the cloud billows within the lightning circle. It
occurred to the writer that possibly the change in the lightning forms
during the two hours, from points to short lines, and from these to
long serpents, was due to a change in the perspective of the cloud
billows. The first view when the mushroom was expanding was end
on, so to speak, with reference to the individual nodes or mamelli.
