THE ERUPTION OF PELEE. 221
When the cloud spread over Fort de France these necessarily rolled
out into long billows and irregular kidney-shaped forms, the lower
surface of which might sometimes be seen when illumined by the light-
ning flashes. Discharges from node to node, with the end on view,
would be small points of light, like the sparks between the electrodes of
an induction machine when the two are pushed together. They would
also be very numerous and incessant as the individual nodes were
numerous, small and possessed of intensest vertical velocities over the
direct discharge from the volcanos throat. As the mushroom spread
to a distance the individual dust eddies became larger and more
diffuse, and the discharge between them would become less frequent
and more irregular, giving rise to the worm stage. With further
increase and more massive movements within the cloud, the same con-
tinually growing in volume and rising to greater height as well
as spreading across the line of vision of the observer below, the
lightning flashes decreased in frequency, and increased in length, in-
tensity and irregularity, producing finally the long orange-colored
serpents described below — the color being due to the dust layer which
partially obscured the dazzling flashes.
Whatever the cause, the lightning clearly showed a gradual change
in character; from incessant, shifting, scintillating points it changed
to less frequent worm-like lines and short forking discharges, the
divergence being at first downward toward the crater. One flash was
noticed in a direction N. 30° W. having a distinct short S shape with
three inflections, the oq lying horizontal. At no time were any light-
ning flashes seen to pass from earth to cloud or vice versa; all of these
discharges were across the sky. At 9 :30 the continuous grumbling
from the volcano died away.
At 9:43 the middle of the dust arc southward had the bearing
S. 20° E. This point corresponded to what at the start was the
zenith point of the dust balloon.
At 9 :45 very brilliant sheet lightning occurred showing no definite
points or lines, but illumining the whole vault in dazzling flashes.
The lightning seemed to be more concentrated on the periphery of the
cloud. Meanwhile white cumulus clouds lifted towering thunder
heads to the southeast and these marked the beginning of local
thunder-storms over all the high points of the island. The high tops
of these clouds lighted by the sheet lightning showed their billowy
profiles white against the dark vault of dust above; some of them
appeared to rise to a great height, but their summits were far below
the black dome of volcanic dust, affording an excellent measure of the
stupendous height of the volcanic cloud and its electrical phenomena
— ^both entirely distinct from the rain-bearing thunder-storms.
At 9 :52, looking southwest, the thin edge of the dust cloud against
