22 2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the starlit sky beyond appeared to have risen somewhat and to be
thinner and more transparent where it had before been black and hard-
edged. Its rise could be measured by the group of royal palms about
the statue of the Empress Josephine, which lay in that direction.
These notes were made from the middle of the open Savane or com-
mon, while a negro boy held a candle for making compass observations
and writing. The increase in sheet lightnings was accompanied by
thunder claps from different directions. Some of these came from
the east, and they were undoubtedly produced by the local showers.
At 10 oclock it was pitch dark, with no horizon visible; white
clouds rose high southwest.
At 10 :08 heavy thunder was heard to the north in the direction of
the high Pitons de Carbet. The lightning from the dust vault had
grown more sparse and the short worms had gradually given place to
elongate serpent-like flashes with increasing intervals. Following
these thunder crashes from the north, there was a magnificent lightning
display across the zenith. At 10:10, in the direction of the volcano
north-northwest, long curved orange flashes rent the vault from east
to west.
At 10:15 rumbling was renewed from the direction of the volcano
and lightning was also seen. This rumbling resembled rather a slight
renewal of the steam explosions than local thunder. It is worthy of
note that the sound at Martinique under the dust cloud was different
from that observed at great distances. At Barbados this eruption of
the night of the ninth was heard distinctly as a series of heavy de-
tonations in quick succession, resembling heavy ordnance close at hand.
The distance, over one hundred miles, and the angle by which the sound
traveled, probably from above the dust vault, produced a different
acoustic effect from what was observed in the immediate vicinity of
the volcano. Probably only the louder explosions carried so far, which
would account for the discontinuous quality of the detonations. At
Fort de France the effect was as though the dust billows had a
muSiing effect.
At 10:25 there was a cessation of active phenomena for nearly
a half hour.
At 10 :50 a breeze sprang up from the south.
At 10:55 there was heavy thunder in the northwest, and some ser-
pent flashes of lightning.
At 11 :15 the dust dome was obscured by rain clouds, showers fell
and there was occasional distant lightning.
At 11 :40 thunder was heard to the south. At this time a quadrant
of the southern horizon cleared, showing itself below the straight edge
of overhanging cloud. After this the night settled down to a condi-
tion of quiet cloudiness with the wind southerly, and the temperature
