THE ERUPTION OF PELEE. 223
80° F. At midniglit two sheets of white paper were placed upon an
open balcony and in the morning, after six hours, these showed a film
of specks of volcanic dust.
At 3:30 A.M. the moon appeared through the dust cloud with
a dim reddish-yellow glow.
The next morning, July 10, at 6:30 the writer took a small steamer
north, along the west coast of Martinique to Carbet, where an excellent
view was obtained of the slopes of Mt. Pelee, with their newly deposited
load of dust and volcanic debris. The morning dawned with high
banks of cumulus cloud and a hazy sunrise; there were some light
showers. When the volcano came in sight, the usual dark dust veil
was seen lowering upon the ocean far to the west (Fig. 2), and the
summit was veiled in billowy clouds. From a point near Morne aux
Boeuf northward, the vegetation and the beach stones showed a coating
of gray dust, which became more conspicuous on approaching the
volcano.
The slopes of the mountain, seen at first enveloped in a rain
shower, were steaming in two places along the Eiviere Blanche, and a
long streak of steaming deposits was seen on the high slopes above the
Eiviere Seche — the Eiviere des Peres was also steaming. The slopes
were covered everywhere with patches of light greyish-yellow sand and
gravel, hot and dry, which blew up in whirling dust clouds now and
then under the puffs of easterly wind. Along the water front, at the
mouths of the various rivers, there were occasional steam jets; the dust
clung to the cliff surfaces of the high rock walls, outlining the rugged
surface in patterns like a fresh snowfall on a cliff face in the Alps.
The greatest masses of dry deposit were accumulated in drifts along
the course of the Eiviere Blanche. This fact is important, showing
that along this gulch there accumulates in the course of a series of
eruptions a very great thicloiess of hot dry gravel and sand, which is
the cause of the violent explosions along the gorge whenever water
rushes down from above.
At Carbet there had been a dust fall on the evening of July 9,
averaging perhaps one centimeter in thickness. There had been a
preliminary small eruption, earlier in the evening; the great eruption
at 8:15 happened quite suddenly. The scintillating lightning flashes
were observed at Carbet from the start; dust and small pebbles fell
shortly afterwards. At Fonds St. Denis, on the heights back of St.
Pierre, angular rocks fell of sizes up to three or four inches. There
was continuous rumbling from the crater noted at Carbet, and this
was quite distinct from the local thunder storms which developed
later. The eruption was watched from the beach at Carbet Point
by Mr. Gouyer, manager of a plantation at Carbet, and he states
positively that he saw no tornado or wind blast which struck St.
