2 24 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Pierre. No one was hurt at either Morne Eouge or Carbet. It seems
agreed among those living near the volcano, that these later eruptions
were more fiery than the earlier ones, indicating that there is more
incandescent material ejected; thus they state that there was more
fire on June 6 than on May 20; and more slides or avalanches of in-
candescent material on the slopes of the mountain on July 9 than on
June 6.
At about 8 oclock on the morning of July 11, a vertical puff
from the volcano rose 10,000 feet into the air, showing at first superb
gray-brown cauliflower surfaces, and later, taking on smooth outlines,
with a funnel-shape and a feathery fringe. There was only a single
puff, and the cloud drifted away to leeward. A similar one was
photographed on July 16 (Fig. 1).
It is of interest to compare with this record of observations at Fort
de France, the notes of the British men of science on July 9 made from
a vessel close to the volcano:*
From the fissure in the volcanOj clouds of pale slaty vapour rose con-
stantly. . . . (About 7:30 p.m.)
In the rapidly-falling twilight we sat on deck intently watching the ac-
tivity of the volcanOj . . . when our attention was suddenly attracted to
a cloud which was not exactly like any of the steam cauliflowers we had
hitherto seen. It was globular, with a bulging, nodular surface; at first
glance not unlike an ordinary steam jet, but darker in color, being dark
slate approaching black. . . . Its behaviour . . . was unique. It did not
rise in the air, but rested there, poised on the lip of the fissure, for quite a
while as it seemed, and retained its shape so long that we could not suppose
it to be a mere steam cloud. Evidently it had been emitted with sufficient
violence to raise it over the lip of the crater, but it was too heavy to soar up
in the air like a mass of vapor, and it lay rolling and spouting on the slopes
of the hill. The wind had no power over it, fresh protuberances spurted out
from its surface, but it did not drift leeward any more than if it had been a
gigantic boulder.
This cloud rolled straight down, gradually increasing in size as it came
nearer. The further it traveled the faster it came. It cleared the mountains
slope, increasing always in size, but still rounded, globular, with boiling,
pillowy surface, pitch black, and through it little streaks of lightning scintil-
lated. On reaching the north side of St. Pierre roadstead the black mass
discharged sparkling lightnings incessantly along its contact with the water.
The cloud quickly lost velocity and formed a black pall, with larger, less
vigorous, more globular, bulging convolutions. It lay almost like a dead mass
on the surface of the sea. The black cloud rose from the fissure about 7:40,
and for twenty or thirty minutes the sloop sailed southward with a gentle
breeze from the east. Then the wind fell to a dead calm. The black cloud
cleared, above the fissure a faint red glare was seen, which slowly increased,
and bright, glowing masses were seen describing parabolic paths through the
* * Report on the eruptions of the Soufrifere, in St. Vincent, in 1902, and
on A Visit to Montague Pelee, in Martinique, Part I., by Tempest Anderson
and John S. Flett. Phil. Trans, of the Roy 8oc. of Land., Series A, Vol. 200,
pp. 353-553, 1903. (See page 492 et seq.)
