TEE RENAISSANCE OF SCIENCE.
19
to agree with the nine heavens moved by angels or intelligences, the
supreme sphere resting in God himself.
LiBEBAi- Abts
Trivium
Quadrivium
Philosophy
Grammar Moon Angels
Dialectic Mercury Archangels
Rhetoric Venus Thrones
Arithmetic Sun Dominions
Music Mars Virtues
Geometry Jupiter Principalities
^ Astrology Saturn Powers
Physics and
Metaphysics
Moral Science { Crystalline Heaven Seraphim
, Theology { Empyrean God.
Starry Heaven Cherubim
About the end of the fifteenth century a revolt against the Aristotle
of the Arab commentators took form in Italy. On April 4, 1497, the
first lecture from the original Greek text was given at the University
of Padua. The vain glosses of the Arabs were decried by the most
distinguished among the teachers of the sixteenth century. Hippoc-
rates and Galen were infallible only in Greek. In 1552 the preface to
an edition of Averroes declared: Our ancestors could find nothing
ingenious in philosophy or medicine unless it came from the Moors.
Our own age, on the other hand, trampling Arab science under foot,
admires and accepts only what comes directly from the treasury of
Greece ; it adores the Greeks only ; it will have only Greeks for masters ;
he who knows not Greek, knows nothing. The Arab Aristotle became
a poisoner; an obscurantist; the executioner of the human race, who
has destroyed the world with his pen as did Alexander with his sword.
The new school conquered in the end, but not without a long struggle.
In Petrarch s time the doctrines of Aristotle had taken on an aridity
from the Arab commentators that cried for a living spirit to replace it.
Petrarch deserves the name of the first modern man in that he
first introduced to the Latins the fine feeling of antique culture, the
source of all our civilization. * * * It was he who first rediscovered
the secret of that noble, generous and liberal comprehension of life
which disappeared when the barbarians triumphed over the ancient
world.
When Arab philosophy was finally overthrown in the early part of
the seventeenth century (we may fix the date at the death of Cremonini
in 1G31) the liberty of opinion that then prevailed in the northeast of
Italy vanished completely. The day of conflict was over. The reign
of orthodoxy began anew. The final defeat of the Arabs was, on the
one hand, a sign of the victory of experimental science; and on the
other, it cleared the way for a rigid orthodoxy.
During the period when the struggle between the Arab and the
Greek Aristotle was in full progress it was inevitable that liberty of
