THE ERUPTION OF PELEE. 229
the British geologists saw no upright shaft of dust, but a cloud pro-
jected horizontally two miles broad and one mile high. They state
that mist and steam obscured their view of the mountain, and it does
not appear that they saw the great vertically projected column of dust
at any time. This was because they were too close to the volcano to
see it, and the up-jet was obscured by the down-jet.
This leads to certain theoretical considerations. Flett and Ander-
son consider these eruptions unique with respect to the hot sand
avalanche and the black cloud, speaking of the Pelean type of erup-
tion. I do not believe that these features are exceptional, nor that
they were wanting in the Yesuvian eruption of 79, nor in Tarawera,
Krakatoa or Bandai-san.
Anderson and Flett believe the motive power which drives the lower
black cloud forward horizontally to be the falling weight of the mass.
Discussing the possibility of the out-blast being caused by the resistance
offered by falling materials to the ascent of subsequent discharges —
an explanation offered by the writer* in 1902 — they write :
Tliis is quite incompetent to explain the behavior of the black clouds we
saw on the night of the ninth of July. Before the first black cloud arose no
very great amount of dust had been projected into the air, and the steam clouds
were drifting steadily westwards. . . . The black cloud took a different path,
and once it had rolled a short way down the mountain there was nothing above
it to prevent it rising in the air: but it hugged the suiface of the ground so
closely that the conclusion was inevitable that it flowed down merely because
it was too hea^-y to ascend.
That no great amount of dust was seen at Carhet projected verti-
cally, prior to the first black cloud, may be accounted for in the same
way as at the time of the incandescent avalanche — it was dusk, and
the mountains summit was veiled in clouds. I have no question but
that there was a preliminary up-puff, not seen by observers close to
the crater. And because of the peculiar acoustic conditions men-
tioned, no sound would be heard, either, though at a distance this puff
might have been noticed as a distinct detonation. Without disputing
the possibility of dust giving weight to a vertically charged steam-
cloud, it is difficult to understand how mere gravitational move-
ment could produce destructive velocities on such gentle slopes — the
slopes of Pelee and Soufriere average only 15° to 17° (Fig. 3). The
horizontal discharges appeared to move with greater and greater
velocity until they struck the sea, then they slowed down and came to
rest almost suddenly. The motion was compared to that of a toboggan
on a snow-slide.
The appearance of slow movement at the craters lip I believe to
have been only apparent, probably because the mass was end on and
The Popular Science Monthly, August, 1902, p. 366.
