THE ERUPTION OF PELEE. 231
Following such reasoning further, we find: (1) A rending explosion
raises some very coarse and heavy material, (2) this material falls
soonest and nearest the crater, (3) such falling material would have
very high velocity, but would come very quickly to rest on cone
slopes of 17°. Its fall would certainly deflect upward discharges of
lesser intensity, and its rush down the mountain with such deflected
vomitings would have the aspect of an avalanche, sending forward an
avalanche blast capable of short-lived but very fierce destruction. A
defiected discharge from the crater would be propelled by the same
force as the up-blast, and thus become both an avalanche and a down-
blast with tbe energy of the volcano behind it. It seems probable
that such a deflected mass of incandescent gravel and bowlders formed
the avalanche seen by Anderson and Flett. On this hypothesis, both
gravity and deep-seated explosion contribute to the tornado violence
of the black cloud, and the displacement of the air before the avalanche
resembles that frequently seen in high mountain districts, where snow-
slips project an air blast capable of leveling forests. Such snow-slides
have a tendency to hug the slope, to move very rapidly above and to
come to rest quickly below, and such movement was noticed in the
eruption which destroyed St. Pierre and in the eruption of Bandai-
san. In the latter also, the discharge changed from upward to hori-
zontal, the change being gradual as the upper air became overcharged
with solid matter. The other eruptions of Pelee and Soufriere showed
the same general characters, and that, of July 9 may be taken as an
example of an eruption of first magnitude. Its direction was more
to the westward than on May 8, hence the escape of Carbet and St.
Pierre. The materials ejected in the fiery avalanche were believed by
Anderson and Flett to be the products of exploded molten lava, which
welled over the lip of the crater and was blown to shreds by expansion
of gases. This view I can not accept, for I have as yet seen no glass
fibers or sherds, nor any evidence of new molten lavas in any way con-
nected with these eruptions. The angular bits of andesite and coarser
rocks found on the mountain after eruption are pieces of country-rock.
In some cases bombs have been formed from old andesites with half-
molten surfaces. All the evidence so far goes to show that these
volcanoes are great steam crushers, comminuting and distributing
ancient volcanic materials.
In conclusion, I wish to record my admiration of the excellent
work done by the Royal Societys commission, recalling with pleasure
association with Dr. Anderson and Dr. Flett in Barbados and Martin-
ique. Their memoir is by far the most thorough and scientific work
that has been published as yet on the West Indian eruptions. y^Cf^
