232 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
IMMIGRATION AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
By Dr. ALLAN MCLAUGHLIN,
U. S. PUBLIC HEALTH AND MARINE HOSPITAL SERVICE.
nnHE popular belief that immigTation constitutes a menace to the
-*- public health is not without foundation. Newspapers and mag-
azines contain graphic accounts of the squalor and insanitary condi-
tions of the tenement districts of our great cities. Recent newspaper
reports and comments upon the remarkable spread of trachoma in the
public schools of New York and other great cities add to the popular
feeling of distrust, and the opinion is gaining ground everywhere that
more stringent means must be devised for keeping out the undesirable
class of immigrants which augments the frightfully overcrowded popu-
lation of the tenement district of New York and other large cities.
In the consideration of danger to the public health from immigra-
tion, three factors must be taken into account: (1) The physique of
the immigrant; (2) his destination, and (3) the presence or absence
of communicable disease.
The first mentioned, the physique of the immigrant, is by far the
most important factor. Good physique was much more general among
immigrants a quarter of a century ago than among the immigrants
of to-day. The bulk of the immigrants previous to 1880 came from
the sturdy races of northern and western Europe, and, not only was
good physique the rule, but loathsome, communicable or contagious
disease was extremely rare. The immigration from Ireland, Germany
and the Scandinavian countries is insignificant to-day compared with
the thousands of Slavs, Italians, Hebrews and other immigrants from
southern or eastern Europe, which now crowd American-bound vessels
and pour through the ports of this country in an ever-increasing stream.
With the change in the racial character of immigration, most
marked in the past decade, a pronounced deterioration in the general
physique of the immigrants, and a much higher per cent, of loath-
some and dangerous disease is noticeable. Thousands of immi-
grants of poor physique are recorded as such by the medical inspectors
at Ellis Island, and a card to this effect sent to the registry clerk or
immigrant inspector with the immigrant, but this mere note of phys-
ical defect carries little significance under the present law, and the
vast majority of them are admitted by the immigration authorities,
because it does not appear that the physical defect noted will make the
