IMMIGRATION AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
233
immigrant a public charge. When the physical defect or poor physique
is so marked that it seems to the medical inspector likely to make the
immigrant a public charge, the immigrant is detained, and a certificate
is made stating his disability, which certificate goes to the board of
special inquiry with the detained immigrant. About two thirds of the
immigrants so certified as likely to become a public charge are admitted
because of the latitude allowed by the phrase, likely to become a public
charge. Under the present law, therefore, the immigrant certified
as sufi^ering from a loathsome or dangerous contagious disease, or as
being idiotic or insane, is deported. The immigrant recorded as
having a poor physique or other j^hysical defect is usually admitted.
Destination is scarcely less important than physique, and it is the
rule that aliens of a race having a low physical standard will invariably
herd together in the overcrowded insanitary tenement districts of our
great cities, while the sturdy races of unskilled laborers are scattered
over a wide territory and tend to establish little homes of their own in
the country or in the subur])s of manufacturing towns or cities.
The following table indicates the relative physical strength of the
various races under discussion, and also the percentage of each race
giving New York as their destination. Statistics of the Irish and
Scandinavian races are given in this table for the purpose of comparison.
Race.
Ratio Sent to
Hospital on Arrival
to Total Number
Landed.
Ratio Deported on
Medical Certificate to
Total Number
Landed.
Percentage Remain-
ing in New York.
Hebrew
1 to 90
1 to 177
1 to 200
1 to 645
1 to 715
1 to 393
1 to 535
1 to 575
1 to 1450
1 to 3280
70 per cent.
50
Italian
Slav
15
Irish
33
Scandinavian
18
The third factor to be considered is the presence of communicable
disease among immigrants. The ordinary quarantinable disease are
eliminated from the question by efficient quarantine methods, but cer-
tain communicable maladies, classed as loathsome or dangerous con-
tagious diseases, exist among immigrants, and constant vigilance and
considerable skill are necessary on the part of medical inspectors of
immigrants to detect these cases and separate them from the healthy
immigrants.
The most important of these diseases, because of its frequency, is
trachoma. Of the total number of cases of loathsome or dangerous
contagious disease found in immigrants, 87 per cent, are due to
trachoma and 10 per cent, to favus.
Several years ago the prevalence of trachoma in the poorer dis-
tricts of our large cities, and particularly among the foreign-born
population, caused numerous requests from medical men engaged in
