234 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
eye Avork in varous parts of the United States that trachoma l)e placed
in the list of excluded affections. This was done in 1897^ with the
result that a great many suffering with the disease were taken from
among the steerage immigrants and deported. It was then discov-
ered that ordinar}^ steerage aliens suffering from trachoma were being
transferred to the cabin, while en route, or after being refused passage
in the steerage at the port of departure, would be sold a cabin passage,
with the assurance that cabin passengers were not inspected at the port
of arrival. To check this practise and to make the inspection of aliens
complete, an inspection of cabin passengers was instituted in the fall
of 1898. The cabin inspection has been very successful in preventing
evasion of the law, but many steamship companies were still apparently
careless of the diseased condition of immigrants to whom they sold
tickets. By the last immigration law (1903) a penalty of $100 is
imposed upon the steamshij^ company for each diseased alien brought
to our ports, provided the disease evidently existed at the time of the
immigrants taking passage and could have been detected by ordinary
medical skill. This penalty has had a salutary effect in causing the
steamship companies to institute a more rigid medical inspection at
the European ports of departure. Formerly the i)resence of a dis-
eased alien in the steerage was a matter of more or less indifference
to the steamship companies, as they could carry him back to Europe,
if deported, and still make a profit on the jjrice of his original passage.
Two points al)out trachoma have occasioned considerable discussion.
These are its contagiousness and its likelihood of causing permanent
injury to sight. The contagiousness of trachoma is recognized and
conceded by those who have seen a sufficient number of cases of the
disease to form an accurate impression. Striking examples of its
contagious character can be seen any day on Ellis Island. The An-
nual Conference of State and Provincial Boards of Health, held at
New Haven, October, 1902, placed trachoma in the category of dis-
eases communicable and dangerous to the public health.
Permanent injury to sight is most likely to occur in cases where
early treatment is neglected. Among immigrants with trachoma,
ignorance of personal hygiene and inability to secure proper treatment
make the spread of this disease alarming and the consequences to sight
disastrous.
The area in Europe where trachoma is most prevalent extends from
the Gulf of Finland on the north to the Black Sea and the Mediter-
ranean on the south, and from Moscow and the A^olga on the east to
the Carpathian Mountains on the west. In addition, it is prevalent
in Greece and southern Italy, probably because of commercial inter-
course with Syria, Egypt and the Barbary States. The first-mentioned
area is occupied by Finns, Lithuanians, Eussians, Poles, Russian-
