IMMlGBATIOy AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH. 235
Germans and Hebrews. The statement is made in some text-books
that trachoma is prevalent among the Irish. Observation of immi-
grants shows that this statement is not true. There is less trachoma
among the Irish than any other race of immigrants. The table given
below indicates the ratio in which this disease was found among the
immigrants landed in 1902.
Race.
Ratio of Cases of Trachoma to Number Immigrants Landed.
Syrian
1 to 66
Armenian
1 to 192
Lithuanian
1 to 375
Finn
1 to 496
Hebrew
Greek
Slav
1 to 539
1 to 667
1 to 758
German
1 to 772
Seotcli
1 to 1 216
IVIasviir
1 to 1,243
Italians
1 to 2 066
Scandinavians
1 to 3,486
1 to 3,623
1 to 4,173
English
Irish
Faviis for several years has been included in the list of excluded
diseases. If the disease had existed for any length of time, it is, of
course, easily detected by the loss of hair and changed character of
the individual hairs and the scalp, but in cases of recent origin de-
tection is often dillicult because of shrewd efforts at concealment. The
immigrants are often prepared for inspection, the tell-tale yellow crusts
carefully removed and the scalp cleansed.
Tuberculosis of the lungs is rarely found among immigrants on
arrival. Thousands of immigrants are examined whose poor physique
suggests to the medical examiner the possible existence of tuberculosis,
but out of the many thousands thus examined at Ellis Island last year,
only fifteen cases were certified as suftering from tul^erculosis of the
lungs.
This apparent freedom from tuberculosis is partly explained by the
fact that tubercular diseases are notoriously diseases of the cities, while
the bulk of our immigration comes from the agricultural communities
and small towns. The remarkable prevalence of tuberculosis among
recently landed immigrants is the effect of horriljle over crowding in
infected, filthy tenements l)y immigrants whose poor physique makes
them ready prey for communicable disease. In addition to the horrible
congestion of the tenements, the insufficient food and insufficient fuel
and clothing, especially among immigrants from Mediterranean coun-
tries, must be considered as factors in the development of tuberculosis.
The danger to the public health from immigrants suffering from
communicable disease is at present comparatively slight. The United
States Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service is charged by law
with the medical inspection of all incoming aliens at ports of the
