236 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
United States. Officers of the service receive special training for their
work as medical inspectors of immigrants. Ellis Island, New York,
is used by the service as a great school of instruction where young
officers, before being detailed for immigration duty at one of the other
ports of entry, are trained in the detection of the particular diseases
and defects likely to be found in immigrants. Canada has always
been a favorite route for undesirable immigrants wishing to evade the
law, and officers of the Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service are
stationed for immigration duty at Quebec and other Canadian ports,
and at various points upon the Canadian frontier. Certain steamship
lines make a regular business of carrying to Canada, for subsequent
entry to the United States, aliens who have been rejected and sent back
from an American port, or who manifestly belong to the excluded
classes, or who have been rejected by other steamship lines who have
some regard for our law^s.
The officers of the Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service
stationed at Quebec, Halifax, N. S., and St. Johns, N. B., have au-
thority to examine only those aliens manifested as destined for the
United States through Canada. Immigrants so manifested do not
differ materially from immigrants ordinarily received at United States
ports, and are given certificates of physical fitness which admit them
to the United States through any of the border points. Thousands
of immigrants evade this inspection at Quebec, Halifax or St. Johns,
by being falsely manifested as destined finally to Canada. They have
no certificates of inspection by United States officers at Quebec, Halifax
or St. Johns, and upon attempting to cross the border are sent back
to Montreal for examination.
In order to show the quality of the immigration brought by the
Beaver Line and other lines engaged in this nefarious business, it is
only necessary to state that 50 per cent, of the immigrants attempting
to cross the border in 1903 were rejected, whereas the usual percentage
of rejection at United States ports is only one per cent.
A regularly organized system of smuggling diseased immigrants
across the border has been exposed by the United States immigration
authorities at Montreal, and although the border inspection main-
tained by the United States Immigration Service is doing splendid
work, it is impossible to guard effectively every point of over 3,000
miles of frontier. A more perfect system of exclusion is now possible,
and consists of a rigid inspection of all aliens landing at Canadian
ports under an effective Canadian law similar in character to our own,
which has recently been enacted.
The real danger to the public health from immigration lies in that
class of immigrants whose physique is much below American standards,
whose employment is in the sweat-shop, and whose residence is the East
