IMMIGRATION AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH. 237
Side tenement in Kew York City. The Mediterranean races, Syrians,
Greeks and southern Italians, who are nnused to a cold climate, and
who often have insufficient clothing, also establish in their crowded
quarters splendid foci for the dissemination of disease. The Hebrews,
Syrians, Greeks and southern Italians, invariably crowd the most
insanitary quarters of the great centers of population. And the
various filthy and infected, though perhaps picturesque, foreign
quarters constitute to-day the greatest existing menace to the public
health.
There are many view points from which our immigrant problem
may be judged. There are extremists who advocate the impossible
— the complete exclusion of all immigrants, or the complete exclusion
of certain races. There are other extremists who pose as humanitarians
and philanthropists and who advocate an act of lunacy — removing all
restrictions and admitting all the unfortunate — the lame, the halt,
the blind and the morally and physically diseased — without let or
hindrance. Neither of these extreme positions is tenable. The
debarring of all immigrants, or the unjust discrimination against
any particular race, is illogical, bigoted and un-American. On the
other hand, the indiscriminate admission of a horde of diseased, de-
fective and destitute immigrants would be a crime against the body
politic which could not be justified by false pretense of humanity or a
mistaken spirit of philanthropy.
The sane, logical position must fall between these two extremes.
It is necessary for us to restrict and debar, if possible, all undesirable
immigrants. A jealous regard for the public weal may demand meas-
ures and standards which seem to the humanitarian and philanthropist
selfish and inhuman ; but charity begins at home, and it is the right
of Americans to exclude the undesirable and to employ whatever
measures and set whatever standards may seem necessary to exclude
any class which menaces the social or physical welfare of the country.
If we debar any undesirable class of immigrants under the law, we
should endeavor to make the law as nearly perfect as possible and debar
all undesirable classes. We debar the immigrant with trachoma,
syphilis, leprosy or favus; also the insane, the epileptic and the idiotic,
but we admit the immigrant with poor physique, unless it is so marked
as to make him undeniably a public charge.
There should be but one standard of physique for the immigrant,
no matter whether his destination be the Pennsylvania mines or the
New York sweat-shops. The skilled laborer should be expected to
possess the same rugged physique as is now expected of the unskilled
laborer. The standard should be fixed by law by comparison with
other well-recognized standards of physique, and should be sufficiently
high to exclude all who could not beyond doubt make a living at
