THE SUCCESSFUL WOMEX OF AMERICA.
239
THE SUCCESSFUL WOMEX OF AMEBIC
By AMANDA CAROLYN NORTHROP,
NEW YORK.
T T is now half a century since a few women began with the most
*- insistent perseverance to demand a place in the political, pro-
fessional and economic world. The}^ made this demand on the ground
that womans brain is equal to mans, and, given a fair chance, women
.could successfully compete with man in every field, except where phys-
ical strength and endurance were necessary. Mans opposition to this
demand, though at times bitter and determined, has been so far over-
come that to-day woman has every opportunity for gaining the best
educational and professional training, and has already taken her place
in the ranks of every profession except that of the armed defenders
of her country. Either with or without the consent of her brother,
she has got most of the things she has asked for, and some things
which she neither asked for nor wanted. She has accomplished much,
but her achievements are still looked upon with misgivings by many,
as is seen in the frequent discussions of The New Woman, The
Unquiet Sex and the Evils of the Higher Education. In all these
discussions there is the constant comparison of the two sexes in abil-
ity, perseverance and poise. But since they entered the race w4th the
tremendous advantage of centuries of mental training and experience
on the side of the men, it is most unjust to draw comparisons.
Putting therefore all comparisons entirely aside, it seemed worth
while to make a study, as far as was possible, of those women who
have achieved in public or professional life that measure of success
sufficient to give them a place among the successful men and women
of America, for the purpose of finding out in what lines of work the
greater probabilities of success lie, and what part educational training
seems to have had.
The material used as a basis of this study is found in the latest
edition of AMios Who in America. It would be difficult to find any
two persons who would quite agree as to what constitutes success.
And this book admittedlv has sins of both omission and commission,
still it is probably as nearly complete as a book of this kind could
well be. The points considered will be found in the following table.
The blank spaces and small figures show the incompleteness of data
in many cases. The conclusions therefore are only tentative.
The 1902 edition of Wlios Who in America contains the names
