THE SUCCESSFUL WOMEN OF AMERICA. 243
aging 40.7 years, and the actress and the artist stand next. They
each average 44.4 years.
In the matter of education, the technical education is not con-
sidered, the object of the writer being to find the importance which
general education and college training hold in the making of a suc-
cessful woman. It is true, however, that most of the artists and the
musicians and many of the educators studied abroad in their special
lines. Where no mention whatever is made of education, the writer
concludes that it must have been slight.
The table indicates that college training has played a small part
in womans success, only 148 or 15.5 per cent. The largest percent-
age of college bred women is found among scientists, ministers and
educators, but even the number of educators who have had college
training is less than half, while in all the other professions, except
the ones already named, the table shows less than one fourth to be
college women. Some of these women have taken more than one de-
gree, and others have studied in one or more colleges and universities
without having taken a degree in any. The question, however, is not
so much what place college training has occupied in the past, as it is
what the tendency toward extended study and investigation seems to
be. By arranging those who gave their age in separate columns ac-
cording to the date of birth, one may get a fair idea of the tendency
towards a higher education, and the relative value it bears in the suc-
cessful life. All those born before 1850 are classed together and the
others by decades. The two columns following the date of birth show
respectively the number and the per cent, of college women. Among
authors there is an increase of college women who were born during
the fifties, over those born before 1850. The next decade shows a
further increase of ten per cent., but of those born between sixty and
seventy there is a decrease of ten per cent., or from 58.3 per cent, to
47.6 per cent. Educators, as has already been said, have the largest
number of college women. The last decade considered shows only
four names, but they are all college bred. If, however, all the pro-
fessions are considered together, the reader will see that the per cent,
of college bred women born between 1860 and 1870 is less than in any
preceding period.
The table also shows the chief womans colleges represented in
comparison with coeducational colleges. Vassar, Wellesley, Smith,
Eadcliffe and Bryn Mawr each count authors and educators of note
among their daughters, but beyond these professions they are scarcely
represented at all. The other colleges represented are with few ex-
ceptions, the coeducational colleges and state universities east of the
Mississippi Eiver. With the exception of the philanthropists, the num-
ber who were educated in coeducational institutions is in every case
