244 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
larger than that of all the womans colleges combined. That is, the
majority of these college women were educated in institutions where
their instructors were almost exclusively men. If then colleges and
especially womans colleges play so small a part in the success of the
women who have been invited to enter the doors of Whos Who, the
question naturally rises, where have they received their education?
The prevailing idea seems to be that the private school is all very
well for the girl who wants some knowledge of the so-called accom-
plishments and a sufficient amount of general knowledge to make
her fairly intelligent, that they are of value only to those parents who
wish the school associates of their daughters to be as nearly as pos-
sible among their own social class, but as for giving a pupil anytliing
like thoroughness in the subjects studied, that the private school stand-
ards are far below those of the public school. A glance at the table,
however, seems to tell quite another story.
The scientists educated in the public school stand to those educated
in the private school in the ratio of 5:4, but in every other profession
the number educated in private schools far exceeds that of the public
schools. Even among educators where thorough knowledge is cer-
tainly essential to success, the ratio of those educated in the private
school is to those educated in the public school as 6:5; the journalists
over 3:1; the physicians 7:2 and the authors over 4:1.
While the public school should not for a moment be undervalued,
these figures would seem to give one a reason to believe the private
schools of the country to be a valuable educational factor in fitting a
woman for a successful career.
It is greatly to be regretted that the biographies investigated are
in many cases so incomplete. The results of the investigation are
therefore only partly conclusive, or perhaps suggestive. But so far
as they go they speak with a degree of authority and nothing is true
beyond that point.
