THE RENAISSANCE OF SCIENCE. 3i
formal beginnings in the Italian schools of the early years of the
twelfth century.
The history of the first half of the thirteenth century is a proof that
the leaven of a revival was then working at Oxford, at Paris, in Eobert
of Lincoln, in Eoger Bacon, at other places, and in many other com-
panies of men. Long years before the savants of the renaissance. Bacon
urged the study of the dead languages, of philosophy, of mathematics,
of classic literature. Centuries before Luther he pointed out the errors
of the Vulgate, and of the fathers of the church. The way was pre-
pared for Petrarch, though in fact he only appeared a full century later.
What is the reason of this sudden check to a vigorous and healthy move-
ment? No single cause was more efficient than the rehabilitation of
Aristotle as the apostle of orthodoxy towards the year 1250. The ad-
vent of the first modern man was delayed for a hundred years, and the
later renaissance for three centuries. The wars of the fourteenth cen-
tury drowned European learning in blood. The history of the prom-
ising beginnings of a real revival of learning in the twelfth and thir-
teenth centuries is not yet written, and the share that the scientific
thought of Bacon and his contemporaries had in such a revival has
been strangely undervalued. Science, as one of the motive forces of
the whole movement, has been neglected. It is the rarest thing to find
in the indexes of professed histories of the renaissance the name of any
scientific man — even that of Copernicus almost never appears.
The earliest stir of the renaissance was in Italy. Petrarch was the
first great man of the new world, as Dante was the last of the old.
Germany, the seat of the Holy Eoman Empire, felt the impulse quickly
on account of its close connection with Italy, and each one of its semi-
independent courts was a focus favorable to the new spirit.
The discoveries of Columbus in 1493 were a mighty aid in freeing
mens thoughts from the shackles of prescription and custom. The
voyages of Vasco da Gama to India (1497-99) and of Magellan around
the world (1519-21) came to confirm the larger view and to excite
curiosity and hope. New things are within our reach; search and
fijid — ^these were the lessons of the time. They were lessons for all
mankind. Even the peasant heard of the new wonders and felt him-
self more a man. The philosopher, in his study, was incited to new
efforts. A new spirit was born throughout civilized Europe.
To estimate an epoch, something must be known of its arts and
inventions. During the middle ages gunpowder, clocks, telescopes,
parchment, paper, the mariners compass were invented or adopted;
mathematics received great developments — especially algebra and trig-
onometry; perspective was studied and perfected; experimental chem-
istry, not yet a science, was cultivated ; surgery was brought to an equal
standing with medicine ; music, as we know it, began with the notation
