246 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as the total value of farm products in the state of Georgia; while
the total value of all Iowas farm products lacks only one third of one
per cent, of equaling the combined totals of Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. Only Texas can compare in the
volume of her agricultural output with this banner state of the north-
west, and even she falls short more than $135,580,000.
We must concede, therefore, that the south occupies the second
place among the great geographical divisions of the country as a
producer of agricultural wealth.
The Southern Farmer in 1893 and in 1903.
The condition of the southern farmer has immensely improved in
the last ten years. To-day he stands, for the first time since the war
of secession, in a position promising permanent betterment of his
farming and of his social position. Until recent years three causes,
any one of which was a fearful incubus, combined to pull him down,
viz., low prices, the lien system and bad farming, including under this
head poor management and antiquated methods.
Scarcely any impediment is heavier to bear up against than pro-
ducing for a long term of years for a continuously falling market.
Sir Guildford Molesworth estimates that between the years 1872
and 1894 the prices of general commodities fell 50 per cent.; the
price of wheat 60 per cent.; that of cotton 70 per cent. In manu-
factures this depression of prices was in large measure offset by new
inventions and economies in production; but the agriculturist, from
the nature of his occupation, is almost entirely cut off from such
retreats.
To add to the hardship of his salable commoditys constantly falling
in price at a rate so rapid that we may say that the value of his cotton
appreciably diminished even while the boll expanded, the southern
farmer was drawn by circumstances into doing business under a sys-
tem which subjected him to a ruinous usury and left him almost com-
pletely robbed of his freedom as to planting profitable or unprofitable
crops. Along with the rest of the structure of southern industry, the
war of secession shattered the system of agricultural credit. There
was no longer a class of large planters possessed of valuable estates
to whom banks of immense capital or wealthy factors stood ready to
lend at fair interest. Eeady money existed only in the traditions of the
past; the southern farmer found himself without the means to buy
even the seed to put into the ground. Then the crop lien law came
to his assistance and remained to his destruction.
This system of industrial peonage known as the lien law works
as follows: The farmer prepares in February for planting. He goes
to the proprietor of an establishment, which in its typical form is a
