SOUTHERN AGRICULTURE. 247
crude department store dealing in every article from medicines to
wagons that he is likely to need in his simple existence. He requests
the merchant to run him during the year, that is to say, to sell him
supplies on credit until the crop is harvested. He promises the mer-
chant to plant a certain acreage of cotton and signs a mortgage upon
this yet unplanted crop. He is now at liberty to buy on credit from this
particular merchant anything he requires ; but he can not buy anywhere
else, for he has no cash, and his credit and security are all pledged to
his patron merchant. The merchant has two scales of prices, cash
and credit, the latter much higher than the former, the excess consti-
tuting interest which the lien farmer must pay. With a few mer-
chants the credit prices are scaled down each month, so that the rate
of interest remains approximately the same on all goods purchased on
lien; but ordinarily the prices remain unchanged up to the last day
before settlement, so that the rate of interest rapidly increases as the
time before settlement diminishes. On goods which the farmer gets
late in the summer, he frequently pays interest above the cash price at
the rate of 200 per cent, per annum. For the whole term of credit, ex-
tending from February to October, he pays on the average, in different
localities, from 40 to 80 per cent, per annum. The usury law forbids
the bank to lend him money at a higher rate than 8 per cent., but
protects him by allowing the merchant to charge him 200 per cent.,
on the principle, apparently, that a man may consent to pay any price
he chooses for capital in the form of merchandise, but that he is not
at liberty to offer more than a moderate price for capital in the form
of money, no matter how badly he may need it or how great the benefit
to be derived from its possession.
Some large merchants employ a sort of traveling inspector of se-
curities, on whose report of the condition of each customers crop
the question of further advances is determined. Possibly by July the
farmer has so much charged against him that the merchant considers
it unsafe, in view of the uncertainty of seasons, to allow the crop to
cover any further credits, and accordingly declares himself under the
painful necessity of declining further sales except on additional se-
curity. The farmer then gives a mortgage on his slight furniture,
bedding, cows, everything. The law does not allow him to give a
mortgage on his wife and children.
Late in the summer the crop is sold. Not to lay the price upon the
counter of the lien merchant is, in law, a misdemeanor ; but in farm-
ing it is starvation for the next year — or at least, the farmer thinks
so. Very commonly in good years, and as a general rule in bad ones,
the price of the crop does not equal the amount on the merchants
books against the farmer. Sometimes the sheriff is called in to supply
the deficit from the real and chattel additional securitv: but not
