248 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
generally. The lien, at least in some states, contains a clause reqiiiring
the farmer to enter into a similar agreement the next year with the
deficit charged against him if he does not succeed in paying out the
first years account.
The iniquity of such a system is exceeded only by the suffering of
the farmer under it. To observe its operation makes plain the ground
for the Biblical injunction given three thousand years ago to an agri-
cultural people against usury. And the pathos of the lien farmer is
that he is always only twelve months from freedom. Better that he
should eat but one coarse meal a day and wear his cheap clothes to the
last frazzle of decency, and by one unremitted struggle break his
chains.
This lien system goes far to account for the amazing fact a few
years ago of the southern farmers persistently planting a full acreage
of cotton in the face of an already glutted market. Those who then
berated him for his folly little understood his predicament. For the
southern cotton farmer, cotton is the only money crop; but for it
there is absolutely certain sale, for there exists from the field to the
factory a market unexcelled for its thorough and sensitive organization
in the commerce of the world. Government bonds can sooner fail of
a purchaser than can a bale of cotton. When a lien merchant sells
goods with cotton as security, he sells practically for gold paid in hand
and by the same act invests his gold at an enormously profitable divi-
dend. If cotton has fallen in price, the merchant requires the farmer
to increase his acreage, as more bales are necessary to equal a given
sum; and as the farmers necessities do not diminish with the price
of his product, he submits; and so we behold the paradox of mens
planting more and more of a certain crop for the sole reason that to
plant it is becoming less and less desirable.
The effect produced upon the character of a people by rack rent is
well known; v/here the tenant promises a rent equaling or exceeding
the surplus product of the land above what is necessary to keep him
alive, he has no inducement to good farming, as the total surplus pro-
duced will be taken from him whether it be great or small. His
fields present the most miserable appearance. The same is true of the
farmer whose lien just suffices to secure on credit the bare necessities
of food, clothing and farming material. Not infrequently he even neg-
lects to harvest his crop, and the merchant has to send his own men to
pick it from the field.
The hard times from 1891 to 1896 were of incalculable benefit to
many southern farmers. The terrible experience of usury, depressed
prices and industrial peonage led many to resolve to be free from
the lien system; and the enforced economy of those years taught how
alone that resolution might be realized, viz., by the accumulation of
