SOUTHERN AGRICULTURE. 249
a certain reserve capital beyond the necessities of each days living.
To save one dollar is better than to earn ten. An indispensable pre-
requisite to the progress of any people is their learning, by self-denial,
to save from this years consumption something of this years product.
Those farmers who learned this lesson have emerged to a greater or
less degree from the shackles of the usurious lien system, and in many
instances what formerly went in 80 per cent, interest to the advancing
merchant is now drawing 4- per cent, in the savings bank.
Some explanation is necessary of the southern peoples continuing
a system so bad. It is favored by a large class who could, by proper
exertions, live without it, but whose indolence deters them from the
supreme effort which would assure their ultimate prosperity; and by
a still larger class, generally tenants, whose unfitness to manage farms
would require them to become hired laborers if they could not get sup-
plies in advance under the lien law. Thus the system is an evil in
three ways : it puts land under the management of earth butchers
who destroy the natural resources of the country and reduce its pro-
duction of wealth; it leads men capable of better into a system of
indolence, destroys their credit and self-respect, and robs them of in-
terest in their lifework; and lastly, it proves a terrible master to the
man who has once fallen into its subtle, tightening embrace, and who
desires independence and progress.
Systems of Farm Tenure.
The development of farm tenures in the south has been from simple
to complex. Before the war the system of ownership was dominant;
but within that there were two classes — owners who attended to their
estates and owners who committed them to salaried managers. Mana-
gers, once so common, now operate less than one in a hundred farms
in the south — a smaller proportion than in any other section of the
union. A southern farmer who is sufficiently trustworthy to have
extensive lands committed to his care will give his employer no rest
until he consents to sell ; or failing in that direction, he buys some old
plantation whose proprietor family has either become extinct or moved
away in their itching for town life.
The impoverishment of the large ■ planters and the disorganization
of the labor force by the war of secession necessitated large plantations
being broken up into units sufficiently small to be operated on a limited
capital and with a minimum of laborers. Between 1868 and 1873 in
Georgia, 32,824 small farms were thus created, and the same process
was in operation throughout the south. Thus the immediate tendency
of the war was to the distribution of the land in small tracts into more
hands; and in this was cause for gratulation; for not only did it
open immense new possibilities of social progress and industrial in-
