252 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
jammed up jealously against the railroad track. In the yard a woman
of comely but unclean j)erson washed clothes. The slouchy individual
in blue shirt and no suspenders was her husband. Most likely neither
of them could distinguish the English language in its printed form
from the inscription on an Aztec monument. These tenants might
have bought a good farm for less than the clerk in the city would pay
for his cottage home; for the average value of farms in the south is
only $11.79 an acre, as against $36.25 for lands in the northwest fre-
quently not so productive.
Farm Labor.
The dwellings and wages of southern farm laborers have both im-
proved, the former in the greater degree. No progressive southern
planter would to-day build such quarters as were erected twenty years
ago. Experience indicates that good quarters attract a better type
of laborer and hold him more steadily, and so prove a good invest-
ment. In some parts of Louisiana dwellings furnished to a family
free of charge (as is throughout the south the universal rule) cost $400.
Comfort is subserved in better floors, glass windows and secure ceiling;
and decency, in a larger number of rooms.
The condition of the agricultural laborer seems to have improved
most in the distinctly staple states, such as Louisiana, Alabama and
South Carolina, rather than in those whose agricultural interests are
scattering, such as Maryland and Kentucky.
Wages to the laborer are less in the south than in any other sec-
tion ; but there is ground for believing that the cost of labor is greater
to the southern farmer than to the northern, western or northwestern;
that is to say, a hundred dollars expended for labor in the south brings
less return than in any other region of the country. The low effi-
ciency of farm labor is one of the heaviest impediments to the progress
of southern agriculture.
One of the results of this inferior help is that the southern farmer
enjoys but a small part of the benefits of agricultural inventions;
first, because to hire the low priced labor is as cheap in the short run
as to buy the machinery, and thus the pace is set at antiquated
methods and non-participation in agricultural progress in the long
run; and secondly, because such ignorant labor can neither utilize nor
take care of expensive machinery.
To understand the inferior quality of southern farm labor necessi-
tates a brief examination of the personnel of the labor force. First,
there are the white laborers, comprising something more or less than
half the entire number of the actual tillers of the soil. It has been
estimated by respectable authorities that the major portion of the
cotton is raised by white labor; but concerning a statement of such
