SOUTHERN AGRICULTURE. 253
importance, I will only say, in the absence of positive proof, that it is
not improbable. Certainly, far more of the hands that actually hold
the plow are white than is popularly supposed. These laborers gener-
ally work for themselves or their parents ; and as they do not ostensibly
enter the labor market, their numerical importance goes unnoticed.
Secondly, there is the negro farm hand, who contributes the great
bulk of the hired labor and is a sort of pace-maker to the white
laborer.
Negro Labor in Southern Agriculture.
I shall speak later of the better qualities of the negro ; but at this
point I must call attention to the widespread prevalence of certain
evils which constitute a serious problem in southern agriculture.
The generation of the race not yet sobered by middle age, who have
never known, on the one hand, the fine discipline of the ante-bellum
masters, nor have yet, on the other hand, learned self-discipline in the
more trying conditions of freedom, have degenerated to a level lower
than any occupied by their race since its African barbarity, and lower,
let us hope, than it will ever occupy again. Not only the morals, but
— what bears more directly on the present inquiry — the efficiency and
reliability of the mass of the negro laborers below the age of forty are
injured to a considerable degree by the group of vices represented by
the pocket pistol, liquor, a deck of cards and a mistress. A certain
dash of wildness marks youth under all colors; but such general
statements are by no means adequate to cover the case of the post-
bellum southern negro.
Not only are the higher qualities of the laborer depending on
character thus destroyed, but this moral degradation has necessarily
incurred physical degeneration by initiating the negro into a cata-
logue of diseases to which his race was forty years ago a stranger.
Some investigators assert that something like 70 per cent, of the race
are infected with a dangerous type of disease incident to vice.* And
yet he works ; for his constitution offers a strange resistance to a form
of poison that completely invalids the white man, but frequently in-
jures the negro no further than seriously to impair with lassitude and
weakness that splendid body his inheritance by nature.
Not only is the negro, like all ignorant labor, inefficient, expen-
sive and unprogressive, but he is suited to only a few staple crops, to
the culture of which he has been reared. The negro is an inveterate
eottontot and conspires with the lien system to keep southern agri-
culture to that staple. His preference for cotton is shown by the fact
that 71.9 per cent, of the negro farmers of the south are cotton farmers,
as against 28.5 per cent, of the white farmers.
* Undeniably the condition is appalling; I would, however, accept such large
per cents, with caution.
