22 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of Guido d Arezzo ; counterpoint was developed into a doctrine ; optics
and acoustics were greatly improved and the foundations of mechanics
were laid ; manufactures of all kinds made great progress, notably those
of glass and steel ; the art of printing opened literature to all the world
— ^the poor and the rich alike.
If we pass to the field of art there are notable matters to be chron-
icled. All the basilicas of Italy, all the mosques of the Arabs, all the
Byzantine churches, all the Gothic cathedrals are of this period. Santa
Sophia dates from A. D. 532, St. Marks from 1052, Notre Dame from
1163, the Cathedral of York from 1171, St. Peters from 1450. Of
the great painters, Cimabue was born in 1240, Giotto in 1276, Van
Byck in 1366, Botticelli in 1447, Leonardo in 1452, Diirer in 1470,
Michel Angelo in 1474, Titian in 1477, Eaphael in 1483, Correggio in
1494, Holbein in 1495, Tintoretto in 1512, Veronese in 1532. The
dates, set down almost at random, cover a thousand years, but the epoch
of great progress was from the twelfth to the sixteenth century.
When we thus sum up what was accomplished in five hundred years,
the period is seen to be full to overflowing. Its interests did not lie
in the direction of science — its ideal was not comfort. At the begin-
ning of the dark ages the problem of Europe was to tame the hordes
of barbarians who had possessed themselves of the lands — to contrive
workable compromises between the customs, laws, ideals, institutions
of northern and southern races. Given the point of starting the pro-
gress is not slow. The advancement of Europe from the sixth to the
sixteenth century is an amazing phenomenon and no one can study it
closely without a sense of wonder that so much was achieved.
We who breathe a different air must never forget that the doctors
of the church cared little for science, as such, and everything for re-
ligion. In the Summa of St. Thomas Aquinas there is but one chapter
that deals with scientific matters. Moreover, we must always carefully
distinguish between the opinion of the philosophers and that of the
multitude. The mass of men then, as now, thought little of philosoph-
ical matters and took their opinions ready-made. Real tolerance in
philosophy is a product of real experience. Princes like Al Mamun
and Alfonso X. patronized learning in a large and liberal way. The
crowd of doctors, poets, artists, physicians, astronomers, at such courts
lived in a harmony which was enforced upon them by their very situa-
tion. Outside the courts there was envy and malice among the excluded
theologians, a sullen opposition among the people. What men do not
understand they suspect as heretical. There is scarcely a moslem or a
christian doctor of the middle ages who did not bear the reputation of
magician among the common people. Medicine, astrology, alchemy
were, almost necessarily, regarded as magical arts. To a populace that
sincerely believed in ubiquitous devils all science was suspect.
