256 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tion to do the heavy farm work ; but closer examination will generally
reveal the fact that an unduly large proportion of these negroes reside
in the towns, while the white man still works the one-hundred-acre
farm of his fathers. For instance, 32.3 per cent, of the population of
the county of Spartanburg, S. C, is put down as negro; but the
county seat alone, with a population of 11,395, contains 20 per cent, of
the negroes of the entire county, and only 16 per cent, of the whites,
and one may ride for hours through many of the townships and see
scarcely a black face. And all this is true despite the fact, let it be
noted, that during the last twenty years tens of thousands of whites
and not one black have been drawn into the towns to man the twenty-
eight cotton mills of the county, having an aggregate capital of ten
millions of dollars. What negroes there are have largely come from
the two counties on the south, which as early as 1850 had a majority
of negro population.
It will be observed that only four counties of large negro population
are also largely productive, of which one lies in the Flint river bottom
in Georgia, being one of about two dozen spots of exceptional richness
strewn midway across the state from the Savannah to the Chattahoo-
chee; and three are in the Tensas bottom bordering the Mississippi in
Louisiana; and the productiveness of these, it will be noticed, is
exceeded by that of counties of large white population similarly situ-
ated, as, e. g., Lafourche and Tangipahoa, La.
In conclusion, we may say that a careful study of the tables re-
veals the facts, first, that the white tenant working for himself usually
makes more than the negro tenant working for himself; and second,
that in localities in which the large majority of the labor hired by
white farmers is black, the production by white owners is generally
less than that of white tenants doing their own work and tends to ap-
proximate the production by black farmers. That is to say, white
o-\vnership farming barely suffices to raise black labor to the level of
the efficiency of white tenants.
I am concerned with the negro only in his bearing upon the present
condition of southern agriculture, and do not intend the dark pictures I
have drawn of his shortcomings as views upon the race question.
The best element of our colored people merit sincere praise for their
progress; but it can not be denied that the great mass of the negro
population, in its present condition, is a fearful incubus upon the
industry of the south. To contend that the negro fills such a large
part of our economy is not to prove his efficiency or his necessity; for
ours is the only great country of the world that is not without his aid.
The immediate need of the industry of the south regarding him, what-
ever his final destiny, is to strengthen his character and raise his in-
telligence to a point adequate to the proper performance of his eco-
nomic functions.
