258 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
What the South Raises.
Such is the machinery of southern agriculture; what does that
machinery do ? In the first place, it produces crops to the annual value
of more than a billion and a third dollars, constituting 28.7 per cent.
of the agricultural output of the country. Two staples, cotton and
corn, embrace 651/^ per cent, of all the crop values of the south, and
only seven of her crops can be called in any sense leading, viz., in the
order of their value, cotton, corn, fruits and vegetables, hay and forage,
wheat, sugar-yielding canes and rice. These comprise 91% per cent.
of all her crop values. Corn has come to occupy a greater acreage than
any other crop, having 25,612,949 acres as against 23,518,433 for
cotton, which leads us to hope that King Cottons disastrous tyranny
has been tempered to the milder sway of a limited monarch.
Agricultural Education.
The three cardinal needs of the southern farmer to-day are educa-
tion, diversification and credit.
The fundamental failing of the education offered the southern
farmer is that it is not adapted to the end in view. The curricula,
past and present, of our schools hardly bear the evidence of being
framed for a people whose prosperity depends so largely upon master-
ing the art and science of the tilling of the soil. The country schools
should teach branches bearing upon agriculture, beginning with na-
ture study with the little tots, and extending to physics, chemistry
and botany for the mature pupils. Not only should the boy learn of
the lovely lea, over which the lowing herd so slowly winds, but he
should have an even more intimate acquaintance with the composition
of the soil and of the physiology of those cattle. The present system of
educating country children fits them for the spheres they are to fill
little further than by such unfolding of the intellect as necessarily
results from any schooling, but rather presents the anomaly of rearing
a great people to unfitness for its life work. The curriculum of rural
schools should be such that farmers would feel that they could not
afford to allow their children to miss its benefits.
Many southern agricultural colleges meet the need little better
and fail signally to send men back to the farm. In this respect a num-
ber of schools in the northwest excel ours. The agricultural college of
Michigan has sent a larger per cent, of its graduates into farming
than professional schools and universities send of their graduates into
the professions for which they were prepared. The only plan of
agricultural education which has succeeded in any state in its object
is to have the institution devoted exclusively to preparing the farmer
for his peculiar life work, and at very low expense. Agricultural
colleges which give extensive courses in non-agricultural branches are
