26o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
everywhere for gold. Louisiana is another state with a very similar
record.*
These rich banks of the slavery regime lent principally to the large
planters, on personal endorsement, stock and bond security, and real
estate mortgage. Substantial factors also did an extensive lending
business, in a way which made them a sort of predecessors of the
modern lien merchant. The factor advanced cash to the planter, se-
cured sometimes by a real estate mortgage, and sometimes only by
note, with the promise (not legally enforceable, however) that the
crop should stand good for the debt if necessary, and that in any event
the factor should enjoy the advantage of handling it. The bank then
rediscounted, perhaps at a lower rate, the planters note as endorsed
by the factor. The step to the vampire lien system was made after
the war, when the factor was replaced by men who similarly borrowed
from the banks upon their mercantile expectations, but who made
the handling of the farmers cotton a subsidiary business, even if they
engaged in it at all, and sold him goods at enormous credit prices on
such lien security that many a lien merchant has never in any true
sense lost a dollar by bad debts, but has simply failed to collect to the
extent of more than reasonable profits, instead of the higher ones he set
as a standard.
The financial need of the south to-day is more banking capital in
close touch with the farmer. Large city banks do not seek agricultural
business ; they dislike the farmer s business ways, the duration of loans
to him, and the character of his security. It is true, however, that the
farmer receives fairer treatment at any one of the several $100,000
banks in a large town than at the single very small bank in the very
small town.
And rural banking facilities are wonderfully increasing. In several
southern states ten years ago there were hardly a dozen banks. One
thousand, three hundred and seventy-four of the 2,172 banks existing
in the nine States of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Missis-
sippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas and Virginia in ISTovem-
ber, 1902, were established between that date and January 1, 1893 —
a period of ten years lacking two months.
Some blundering and some unsafe banking have resulted from this
sudden multiplication of untrained hands at the business; for the
vast majority of these banks are chartered under state law. Yet the
agricultural interests have been greatly benefited : and the evils can be
remedied by the employment of expert inspectors. The fact that bank
* Banks to-day furnish a large amount of money to the business and agri-
cultural interests by means such as rediscounts, large deposit accounts, etc.,
item far less important in ante-bellum banking. The relative amount of actual
accommodation supplied now and formerly would be an interesting question
for bankers acquainted with both past and present conditions in the south.
