262 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
VOICE, SONG AND SPEECH.
BY WM. SCHEPPEGRELL, A.M., M.D.,
NEW ORLEANS, LA.
n[^HERE is no physical faculty which so distinguishes man from
-*- the lower animals, and marks him more conspicuously in the
image of his Maker than the power of articulate speech. That there
is some means of coramunication among the lower animals, we can
not doubt, but that faculty of articulate speech which enables us to
communicate to our fellowmen not only our ordinary desires and
wishes, but even the most delicate shades of our inmost thought, that
faculty belongs distinctively to the human race.
This subject may be treated from various standpoints, but we will
here limit ourselves to a strictly physical consideration, explaining
first the general anatomy of the parts essential in the production of
the voice, and afterwards the manner in which these are used in the
formation of song and speech.
Before discussing the subject of the voice, we must have some con-
ception of sound in order to understand more fully how the voice is
produced and how it is modified by the various parts concerned in the
faculty of speech. All sounds are due to the vibration of the sur-
rounding air, which conveys to the ear the vibrations produced by the
sound-producing object. Perhaps one of the simplest methods of pro-
ducing sound is by means of the tuning fork. When this is struck
the prongs are made to vibrate, and these in turn set up in the air
vibrations which are carried to the drum of the ear, and thence trans-
mitted to the brain as sound.
In sound we have three important qualities, pitch, loudness and
timbre. The pitch depends upon the number of vibrations which the
sounding body makes in a given time. When these vibrations are
repeated less than eighteen times per second they produce no musical
tone to the ear. When a boy strikes a stick against a paling fence we
have simply a rattle. If, however, this could be done so rapidly as
to make more than eighteen beats to the second, then the ear would
cease to recognize each individual stroke and would perceive a musical
tone. The more rapid the vibrations the higher the tone, until the
limit of human hearing is reached, which is about 48,000 vibrations
to the second.
The second quality of sound, which we may call loudness, is due
to the range of the vibrations made by the sound-producing body. If
