VOICE, SONG AND SPEECH. 263
the tuning fork is struck lightly, it gives a certain tone, but very
softly. If it be struck hard, however, it produces a louder sound,
due to the fact that the vibrations are greater in length, which, being
communicated to the ear, set up stronger vibrations in the drum, and
we hear a louder sound. This, however, does not vary the pitch of
the sound which remains identical as long as the number of vibrations
per second remain the same.
The third quality of sound is due to the form of the vibrations
regardless of the pitch or the loudness. The trained ear recognizes,
for instance, in the note of the tuning fork, the violin, the clarionet
and the piano, the same tone howsoever made. There may be the
same degree of loudness, but there is a distinction — this distinction
being due to the peculiar form of the wave set up in the air and thus
communicated to our ear. This is known as the timbre of the sound.
The manner in which the ear distinguishes the loudness and the
pitch is easily understood, as the vibrations of the drum of the ear
correspond in degree and number to the vibrations of the air and of
the sound-producing body. How it distinguishes the timbre of the
sound is much more complex. This subject has been carefully inves-
tigated, and it is now accepted that with the original or fundamental
tone there are always a certain number of over-tones which give this
special quality to the sound.
Having now explained some of the fundamental principles of sound,
we will discuss the question of how the human vocal apparatus pro-
duces that form of sound known as the voice. Undoubtedly the
human voice is based upon the same principles as other musical sounds,
being, however, more complete, more varied in its capacity and more
adjustable to surrounding conditions, than any instrument made by
human hands.
The relationship of speech to song is not well understood, many
persons believing that in song some special parts of the vocal organs
are utilized which are not employed in ordinary speech. As a matter
of fact, however, speech is simply a modified form of singing, the
principal difference being in the fact that in singing the vowel sounds
are prolonged, and the intervals are short, whereas in speech, the
words are uttered in what may be called staccato tones, the vowels
not being specially prolonged and the intervals between the words
being more distinct. The fact that in singing we have a larger range
of tones does not properly distinguish it from ordinary speech. In
speech we have likewise a variation of tones, and even in ordinary con-
versation, there is a difference of from three to six semitones, as I
have found in my investigations, and in some persons this range is as
high as one octave. In this consideration of the voice, therefore, song
and speech may be considered under one head.
