264
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Fig. 1. Vocal Cords in
Position for Speaking or
Singing.
In the voice, as in other forms of sound, we must have, first, a
vibrating body to initiate the sound. This we have in the vocal cords
of the human body. The vibrations set up in the vocal cords (Fig. 1)
are not due to a violent impact, as in the case
of the tuning fork, as this would injure the
delicate tissues of the sound-producing organs,
but are caused by the air passing between the
vocal cords very much as the current of air sets
up vibration in a reed instrument such as
the clarionet. In the human voice this cur-
rent of air is furnished by the lungs, which
have therefore the double duty of supplying the
oxygen to the blood and setting up vibrations
in the vocal cords for the voice.
The chest is supplied with the most perfect mechanism for obtain-
ing this current of air. The main support is furnished by the ribs,
which give firmness to the chest. These are held together and sup-
ported by muscles of great strength which raise the ribs in the act
of inspiration. The lower part of the chest is enclosed by a broad
flat muscle known as the diaphragm, which materially assists in giv-
ing its bellows-like faculty to the chest. In the act of inspiration,
the diaphragm is lowered and the ribs are raised, thus creating a space
in the lungs which is filled by the air entering through the nose and
throat. In expiration, however, this is reversed, the ribs being low-
ered and the diaphragm raised, the process being assisted by the nat-
ural elasticity of the lung tissue. The thorough understanding of
this function of the lungs should impress us with the importance of
not hampering their action by tight clothing or lacing, which neces-
sarily interferes with their freedom of action, and, by thus lowering
the resistance of the body, make it more liable to the entrance of
disease.
The two vocal cords, whose vibration forms the essential factor in
the voice, are situated within the larynx, the
most prominent point of which is known as the
Adams apple. The larynx has several
plates of cartilage which, while protecting the
delicate organs within, make it less liable to
fracture or injury than if they were made of
bone. By removing one of the plates of the
larynx, we see the edge of one of the vocal cords,
which consists of a narrow band of rather
hard tissue, whitish in color in health, and surmounted on a band of
muscles which not only gives it support but also enables it to adjust
the tension necessary for tone-formation. The vocal cords, during
Fig. 2. Vocal Cords Dur-
ing Inspiration.
