THE RENAISSANCE OF SCIENCE. 23
Considerations of this sort should make us very tolerant of the
blunders of our brothers of past time. It is so easy for any one of us
to make a list of the follies, errors and crimes of his own century, and
so hard to find excuses for them, that it should give us pause in dis-
tributing indiscriminating blame to the men of the middle ages as is
often done in books of the warfare-of-science-and-theology sort. Among
us, as of old, the ignorant are the most harsh. To us, as to the middle
ages, the phrase Tout comprendre cest tout pardonner applies in its
fullest force and scope.
During the whole of the middle ages there was never a time when a
philosopher was not free to put forth his scientific conclusions hypo-
thetically — as theories to account for observed phenomena. He could
not, however, directly attack religion, or even roughly handle received
opinion on religious matters. At many epochs the first breath of heresy
was fatal. Our own age is not very tolerant of attacks upon cherished
beliefs. It is in a great degree its indifference to a certain class of
inquiries that gives us our present liberty. Had Copernicus lived, his
doctrine would not have given rise to scandal in the church, because it
was put forth as a distinctly scientific opinion quite detached from
theological suggestions. It was not until 1616 that his book was placed
upon the index, and then only as a consequence of the personal enmities
that Galileos bitter satires had excited. If Roger Bacon had been
willing to follow the methods of Copernicus the long miseries of his
life would have been spared and the world might have been saved from
three centuries of wandering in devious and ill-directed paths. If
Galileo had done the same he would have lived in peace; we should
have owed our present freedom to another martyr.
It is the custom of our minds to escape difficulties by accepting
symbols to stand for ideas, types to stand for men, and we stand in
danger of losing realities in the types and symbols. The sculpture of
the Greeks is summarized to us by a couple of names; but there were
many great sculptors in Greece beside Phidias and Praxiteles. The
astronomy of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries can show a large
list of noted names; but it is epitomized in Copernicus, Tycho, Kepler
and Galileo. It is commonly taken for granted that Copernicus burst
forth from darkness and made a new epoch. He stands, indeed, for
a new epoch; but he was no less the product of his time than Darwin,
another Bahnbrecher. There was great activity among astronomers in
the decade just preceding the publication of his great book in 1543.
Copernicus was the child of universities; the schools of Italy which he
frequented for years were alive with inquiry. The epoch for a revision
of accepted theory had arrived. It was the encouragement of his
friends and scholars that brought about the promulgation of his
theories, all of which were fully comprehended by them, before even a
