266
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
register, this soon resulting in hoarseness, inflammation and perhaps
permanent injury of the voice.
The ordinary method of speaking of these registers as the chest,
throat and head registers is apt to be misleading, as in every case
the tones are formed in the larynx and by the vocal cords, the head
and other names being derived from the fact that the sound seems to
be more directed to these parts of the body.
The loudness of the tone is due to the force with which the air is
expelled from the lungs, thus causing a greater range of vibration in
the vocal cords. The question of timbre is much more complex. It
is this feature which distinguishes the singing of the amateur in music
from the professional, the uncultivated from the cultivated voice, and
the resonant tones of the orator from the poor voice of the ordinary
speaker. As already explained, the quality of tone is entirely influ-
enced by the number of over-tones, these being due to other parts of
the throat accessory to the vocal cords in voice production.
Before explaining this point, we
must first consider what other or-
gans are essential in the production
of the voice. The fundamental tones
are made in the larynx as already
explained, but these alone do not pro-
duce articulate speech; in fact, such
tones are not limited to the human
race. It is the peculiar faculty of
articulating that distinguishes the
voice of man from that of other ani-
mals. Articulation is due to other
parts concerned in the organ of
Fig. 6. DiAGKAM of Vocal appaeatus specch, such as the tongue, the teeth,
During Pronunciation of Vowel ah j^^ie lips, the palate and the nostrils.
^^^- Each of these has its influence in the
formation of the voice, and a defect in any of these will be easily recog-
nized by the experienced hearer.
The fundamental element of the voice is formed by the vowel
sounds, the consonants, as the name indicates, simply modifying the
vowel sounds. Although nominally the pure vowels are a, e, i, o and
u, the vowel sounds are of far greater number. For instance, the a
occurs in maw, hat and mate, but in each it is sounded differ-
ently and the same occurs with the other vowels.
The simplest vowel is a (as in ah) which is sounded by vibrating
the vocal cords, the sound issuing almost without obstruction, the
tongue being lowered and the lips apart. If now, without any further
change than to round the lips, the same effort be made, the a will be
