VOICE, SONG AND SPEECH.
267
changed to 0, and if the lips are still further contracted the will be
changed to u. The remaining vowels a (as in hate), e and i are
made from the fundamental a above described, by contracting and
shortening the passage between the tongue and the roof of the mouth
and palate. If we would suppose that the passage from the vocal cords
to the lips were a tube, then we could say that in u the passage was
the longest and in i the shortest, and the 0, a and e sounds intermediate
between these in the order stated. In these and in the examples which
follow, it would be well for the reader to test the methods described,
which would do much to make this subject more easily understood.
The consonants, as their name implies, can not be sounded alone
but simply modify the vowel sounds. This may be done by the lips
(labial), the teeth (dental), the tongue (lingual), the palate (palatal)
or by allowing the air to pass through the nos-
trils (nasal). The simplest are the labial
sounds (m, b, p, f, v, w), and these are there-
fore, the first learned in infancy, as mama,
papa, etc. In sounding the vowel a, we first
contract the lips and then allow the air to escape
by opening them, the slight explosive sound
forms ba, and if this effort is made stronger,
it becomes pa. In the dental sounds (t, d, s,
etc.), the emission of the vowel is made by the
teeth and tip of the tongue, and in the palatal
(h, g, c, etc.), by means of the middle or pos-
terior portion of the tongue and the middle or
posterior portion of the palate. In this posi-
tion are formed the so-called guttural sounds of the German (icli,
dock, etc.) which forms one of the characteristics of this language.
In the above described consonant sounds, the emission of air
through the nostrils has been prevented by the soft palate being brought
against the back of the throat. In the nasal sounds (n, ng), however,
the air is allowed to pass through the nostrils by relaxing the soft
palate. If the nostril be closed when ing, for instance, is to be pro-
nounced, the sound will not issue unless the air be allowed to pass
through the nostrils. In some cases, the nasal sound is given to words
to which it does not belong, this giving a peculiar nasality of tone
easily recognized. In the French, there are normally the nasal vow-
els (in, en, on) characteristic of this language.
In addition to the above, we have the aspirate, represented by the
letter h. In this, a partial expiration is first allowed to pass between
the vocal cords before they are approximated to form the vowel, in this
way changing the a to ha and to ho. This sound is pronounced
very distinctly in the German language, less so in the English, being
Fig. 7. Diagram OF Vocal
Apparatus During Pro-
nunciation OF THE Nasal
Sound n (Guttman).
