268
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
occasionally omitted as in the words heir/ humor, etc., and infre-
quent in the French and quite softly when pronounced.
The aspirate, which is sounded without approximating the vocal
cords, brings us to the whisper in which we have all the elements of
speech without the initial vibrations of the vocal cords. That these
are not concerned in the whisper is demonstrated by the fact that per-
sons, suffering from such forms of paralysis that the cords can not be
brought together, can whisper, and that even where the vocal cords
have been entirely destroyed by tuberculous or other disease, the patient
can still whisper without difficulty.
As already stated, the modifications of the vowel sounds for articu-
late speech are made in the cavities of the mouth, the upper part of
the throat and by the nostrils, and are further modified by the posi-
tion of the teeth, lips and palate. In perfect singing or speaking, we
must have all these parts in a normal condition, and where there is no
obstruction, defect, congestion or inflammation, there is no interfer-
ence with the free motion or vibration of the parts concerned in voice
production.
The question may be asked how this information about the action
of the vocal cords has been learned,
since, during life, they are out of
sight. The use of a mirror by the
throat specialist is now so common
that it no longer attracts any com-
ment, although this method of ex-
amining the larynx of a living sub-
ject is yet comparatively recent.
The method, however, by means of
which these parts are inspected is
not so well understood, and it
would, therefore, be not without
interest to explain it.
The interior of the larynx, be-
ing separated from without by its
skin and cartilages, is, of course, dark, and must therefore first be
illuminated in order to be seen. A small mirror is therefore placed
in the back part of the throat, which projects the rays of light down-
wards into the parts to be inspected. In order to enable the operator
to use the same mirror for inspecting as for illuminating the larynx,
he fastens to his forehead a concave mirror which reflects the con-
densed light to the throat mirror, and by means of an opening in the
center of the head mirror, he is enabled to see the parts of the throat
that are illuminated by the throat mirror. This arrangement, which
is comparatively simple, has been the foundation of the science of
Fig. 8. Method of Examining Larynx,
THE View of which is shown in the Small
Cut at the Left (Ingals).
