VOICE, SONG AND SPEECH.
269
laryngology, as, before its invention, the investigations of the larynx
were limited to the examination of the dead body, and many of the
most important diseases escaped observation.
The study of the action of the vocal cords during speaking or sing-
ing is somewhat more complicated. We have already stated that in
order to produce a tone, the rate of vibration must be at least 18 to
the second, and the lowest tone of the human voice (low D of the bass)
rarely falls below 73 vibrations per second. Ordinarily, then, it would
be impossible to see the motion of the vocal cords during vibration,
and yet this is an important matter. Human ingenuity has come to
the relief of this problem in the invention of an instrument called the
stroboscope which is here shown.
In explaining its mechanism let us imagine a carriage wheel with
a number on each spoke, the wheel
being in rapid revolution around
its axis. Ordinarily these numbers
would be entirely obscured on ac-
count of the rapidity of the mo-
tion, and would present to the eye
simply a blur. If, however, we
place in front of this wheel a large
piece of pasteboard with an open-
ing opposite to one of these num-
bers, and some mechanism in
front of this hole so that it would
open only when the same number
is in front of it, then we could in-
spect them one by one by a simple
adjustment. Furthermore, it
could be so arranged that instead
of opening always at the same
number, it would miss one revolu-
tion and open at the second num-
ber, and in this way we could see each number until the whole series
had passed.
This is the principle involved in the stroboscope. The patient is
instructed to give a certain tone, and by means of a syren, which indi-
cates the number of vibrations for any given tone, the number of
vibrations per second are registered. This instrument is then so ad-
justed that the aperture, by means of which the vocal cords are exam-
ined, opens after every series of vibrations are complete so that the
vocal cords are always in the same position. This inspection of the
larynx is conducted in the same manner as with the mirror method
already described.
Fig. 9. Stroboscope for Examiking Vocal
Coeds during Vibration.
