270
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
In this way the vocal cords may be seen in any stage of their vibra-
tions, and the instrument may also be so adjusted that one series of
vibrations is omitted, and the second step of the vibration is taken
up, so that we apparently have a slow motion of the vocal cords, which
enables us to study their action during voice production. This has
given us much useful information, especially regarding the subject of
the various registers of the human voice.
Having now explained the production of the voice under normal con-
ditions, I must now show how this is affected by abnormal conditions,
and also point out some suggestions as to the care of this important
organ. You will remember that the vibrations of the vocal cords pro-
duce the fundamental elements of the voice. Any condition which
prevents their free vibration will therefore interfere with the normal
voice. The most frequent disturbances are due to colds in which the
vocal cords may become congested or inflamed. This produces a thick-
ening of the vocal cords which lowers their rate of vibration, and, con-
sequently, lowers the tone and gives rise to the hoarse voice charac-
teristic of an ordinary cold. When this condition, from any cause,
becomes chronic so that instead of a simple swelling of the vocal cords
we have a chronic thickening, it may leave, unless corrected, a perma-
nent defect in the voice.
A more serious influence on the voice is due to growths or tumors
either on the vocal cords or in some other
part of the throat, and interfering with
the formation of vocal sounds. In the
adjoining illustration, the small tumor
shown between the vocal cords had
caused hoarseness by interfering with the
vibrations of the vocal cords, and by irri-
tating the throat had set up a persistent
cough. About eighteen months before be-
ing seen, the patient had leaped into the
Mississippi Eiver to save a child from
drowning. The exposure was followed
by a severe cold, leaving a persistent hoarseness, afterwards accom-
panied by a cough. About a year and a half afterwards, the patient
was sent to me and a careful examination revealed this small tumor
on the vocal cord, which affected his speech, so that it was of an ex-
tremely husky character. The following day this tumor was removed
by means of an instrument passed from the mouth into the throat, the
course of the operation being followed by means of a mirror as already
explained, and being rendered painless by the application of cocaine,
and the tumor removed. The voice being freed from the dampening
Fig. 10. Small Tumor of Vocal
coei) interfering with voice pro-
DUCTION.
