272 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Missing or broken teeth, especially in the case of the front teeth
which are more concerned in voice production, give rise to defects which
are corrected when the teeth are replaced or repaired.
A catarrhal condition in the upper part of the throat, filling it
with secretion, interferes with the free vibration of sound and gives
an effect very similar to that due to an obstruction in the rear portion
of the nostrils, as is sometimes the ease in the later stage of a severe
cold.
There seems to be much misconception regarding the tonsils as a
factor in voice production. It is of common occurrence for mothers
to ask the physician before an operation upon the tonsil if it will not
injure the voice. As a matter of fact, the healthy tonsil has no effect
upon the voice, while the diseased tonsil can have only an injurious
effect either directly by its size, interfering with the free vibration of
the voice, or indirectly by setting up an irritation of the throat and
causing the voice to be weak. The correction, or even removal, of a
diseased tonsil can, therefore, have only a good influence on the voice.
There is another unhealthy condition of the throat of children
which is now receiving more attention, due to the so-called adenoids.
In this there is an enlargement of the tissues in that part of the throat
just back of the nostrils. This growth may interfere with speech either
on account of the secretion which it produces or by its size, in either
case obstructing the entrance of the nasal sounds into the nostril.
The presence of this abnormal growth is injurious not only on account
of its effect on the voice but also on the general health, as it prevents
the child from breathing in the manner intended by nature, that is
through the nostrils.
The nostrils are not simply openings for allowing the air to reach
the lungs, but their special function is to warm, clean and moisten
the air which is intended for respiration. Proof of this is shown by
the fact that if we suffer from a cold so that the nostrils are ob-
structed, an irritated throat is a certain result the next morning, being
due to the fact that the unprepared air has irritated the delicate tis-
sues of the throat. In diphtheria, for instance, if the membrane has
developed in the throat and threatens the breathing of the child, and
this be overcome by a tube inserted in the throat below the false mem-
brane, respiration must now go on without the air passing through
the nasal passages. The only way to counteract the evil effects of this
abnormal breathing is to place the child in a room which is warmed
to almost the normal temperature of the body, artificially saturated
with moisture, and every endeavor made to keep it free from impurities.
Even with this, the patient may develop a bronchial affection due to
the absence of nasal breathing, but without it, a bronchitis, even of a
fatal character, would develop in a short time. I go to some length
