VOICE, SONG AND SPEECH. 273
in explaining this matter, as the importance of the nose in respiration
is not well understood. Its influence on the speech is better recog-
nized, as most persons easily note the peculiar effect on the speech
when there is an obstruction in the nasal passages.
Having now given you a description of the organs of speech in
health and in disease, a few words as to its care will conclude this
article. In this as in other parts of the human body, prevention is
better than cure. Careful attention to any abnormal condition of the
nose or throat is an effective means of preventing any disease of these
parts. The same rule, which applies to other parts of the body, such
as the necessity of outdoor exercise, fresh air, etc., is in general ap-
plicable here, and perhaps a little more here because the nose and
throat form the vanguard of the respiration so essential to life. Any
agent which irritates the delicate membrane of the throat is injurious
to the voice — among these may be mentioned the use of strong liquor
and the abuse of smoking, especially cigarettes. The action of the
cigarette tends to produce a chronic irritation and thickening of the
throat, sometimes accompanied by excessive dryness and irritability,
these causing efforts to clear the throat which adds to the injurious
effect. The remedy is evident.
The correct placing of the voice is of the utmost importance. No
attempt should be made to do this until the voice is properly developed,
and this should not be done by singing or even solfeggio practice, but
by vocal exercises on the vowel sounds, especially of a (as in maw).
I have seen many voices greatly injured and even permanently ruined
by being placed in the wrong class, even such egregious errors as a
bass, classified as a tenor, being among the cases which I have had to
treat.
The strengthening of the throat by means of vocal exercise is as
important as the strengthening of the body by suitable physical exer-
cise. Teachers and lawyers, therefore, as well as singers should prac-
tise certain vocal exercises such as loud reading, light vocal scales,
etc., so that, when called upon to make a special use of the voice, it is
prepared by regular practise for this unusual exertion.
VOT.. LXIV. — 18.
