2 74 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
WHAT KNOWLEDGE IS OF MOST WORTH?*
By the late HERBERT SPENCER.
IT has been truly remarked that, in order of time, decoration pre-
cedes dress. Among people who submit to great physical suffering
that they may have themselves handsomely tattooed, extremes- of tem-
perature are borne with but little attempt at mitigation. Humboldt
tells us that an Orinoco Indian, though quite regardless of bodily com-
fort, will yet labor for a fortnight to purchase pigment wherewith
to make himself admired; and that the same woman who would not
hesitate to leave her hut without a fragment of clothing on, would
not dare to commit such a breach of decorum as to go out unpainted.
Voyagers uniformly find that colored beads and trinkets are much more
prized by wild tribes than are calicoes or broadcloths. And the anec-
dotes we have of the ways in which, when shirts and coats are given,
they turn them to some ludicrous display, show how completely the idea
of ornament predominates over that of use. Nay, there are still more
extreme illustrations: witness the fact narrated by Captain Speke of
his African attendants, who strutted about in their goat-skin mantles
when the weather was fine, but when it was wet, took them off, folded
them up, and went about naked, shivering in the rain! Indeed, the
facts of aboriginal life seem to indicate that dress is developed out of
decorations. And when we remember that even among ourselves most
think more about the fineness of the fabric than its warmth, and more
about the cut than the convenience — when we see that the function is
still in great measure subordinated to the appearance — we have further
reason for inferring such an origin.
It is not a little curious that the like relations hold with the mind.
Among mental as among bodily acquisitions, the ornamental comes
before the useful. Not only in times past, but almost as much in
our own era, that knowledge which conduces to personal well-being has
been postponed to that which brings applause. In the Greek schools,
music, poetry, rhetoric, and a philosophy which, until Socrates taught,
had but little bearing upon action, were the dominant subjects ; while
knowledge aiding the arts of life had a very subordinate place. And
in our own universities and schools at the present moment the like
* The opening and concluding parts of an article originally printed in the
Westminster Review and republished by Messrs. D. Appleton and Co. in 1860,
with other papers, in a volume entitled * Education.
