WHAT KNOWLEDGE IS OF MOST WORTH? 275
antithesis holds. We are guilty of something like a platitude when we
say that throughout his after-career a boy, in nine cases out of ten,
applies his Latin and Greek to no practical purposes. The remark is
trite that in his shop, or his office, in managing his estate or his family,
in playing his part as director of a bank or a railway, he is very little
aided by this knowledge he took so many years to acquire — so little,
that generally the greater part of it drops out of his memory; and if
he occasionally vents a Latin quotation, or alludes to some Greek myth,
it is less to throw light on the topic in hand than for the sake of
effect. If we inquire what is the real motive for giving boys a classical
education, we find it to be simply conformity to public opinion. Men
dress their childrens minds as they do their bodies, in the prevailing
fashion. As the Orinoco Indian puts on his paint before leaving his
hut, not with a view to any direct benefit, but because he would be
ashamed to be seen without it; so, a boys drilling in Latin and Greek
is insisted on, not because of their intrinsic value, but that he may not
be disgraced by being found ignorant of them — that he may have the
education of a gentleman — the badge marking a certain social position,
and bringing a consequent respect.
This parallel is still more clearly displayed in the case of the other
sex. In the treatment of both mind and body, the decorative element
has continued to predominate in a greater degree among women than
among men. Originally, personal adornment occupied the attention
of both sexes equally. In these latter days of civilization, however,
we see that in the dress of men the regard for appearance has in a
considerable degree yielded to the regard for comfort; while in their
education the useful has of late been trenching on the ornamental. In
neither direction has this change gone so far with women. The
wearing of car-rings, finger-rings, bracelets; the elaborate dressings
of the hair; the still occasional use of paint; the immense labor be-
stowed in making habiliments sufficiently attractive; and the great
discomfort that will be submitted to for the sake of conformity; show
how greatly, in the attiring of women, the desire of approbation over-
rides the desire for warmth and convenience. And similarly in their
education, the immense preponderance of accomplishments proves how
here, too, use is subordinated to display. Dancing, deportment, the
piano, singing, drawing — what a large space do these occupy ! If you
ask why Italian and German are learnt, you will find that, under all
the sham reasons given, the real reason is, that a knowledge of those
tongues is thought ladylike. It is not that the books written in them
may be utilized, which they scarcely ever are ; but that Italian and Ger-
man songs may be sung, and that the extent of attainment may bring
whispered admiration. The births, deaths, and marriages of kings,
and other like historic trivialities, are committed to memory, not be-
