24 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
line had been printed. Had Copernicus never been born there is no
doubt that the heliocentric theory would have been announced before the
sixteenth century reached its end. Tychos observations contained it
implicitly. It could not possibly have escaped the eager search of
Kepler.
Tycho, again, stands as the type of the men who saw that a multi-
tude of accurate places of the heavenly bodies must be accumulated
before any adequate theory of their motions could be formulated. The
Moors of Spain, the Arabs of Bagdad, the Turkis of Samarkand grasped
the same fundamental idea, and other astronomers in Italy and in Ger-
many were in the same path before Tycho.
Wlio shall say how much Kepler owed to his master, Moestlin, to
whom he is never weary of attributing the suggestions which finally
culminated in his splendid discoveries ?
Galileos great achievements in astronomy were largely due to the
telescope, which he was the first to use, although it was invented by
others. His greatest gift to science is his theory of mechanics, but
even here Leonardo da Vinci had already gone far on the true way,
and his contemporary, Stevinus, developed the whole subject inde-
pendently and with equal insight. Galileo was surrounded by men of
his own class if not of his own stature.
We, in our turn, may accept these four great men — Copernicus,
Tycho, Kepler, Galileo — as types; but we must never forget that they
did not stand alone. Each one of them shone with brilliant and in-
trinsic light, but each one was, also, in some degree, the mirror of his
age, concentrating and diffusing the reflections of lesser lights by whom
he was surrounded. Wliat he received from them as mist, he returned
in rain, as has been finely said of the inspiration of an orator by his
audience.
Of this group of four, two are veritable epoch-makers — ^the first and
the last. After the book of Copernicus was understood, the world was
no longer the same. Its center had been changed. The sun and not
the earth ruled our system. The planets and the stars became the sun s
ministers, not ours. Man, nodus et vinculum mundi, was discrowned
and disenthroned. It was the doctrine of Copernicus that changed the
face of the world.
To realize the momentous change time was necessary. It was
Galileo who spoke the emphatic word. The predictions of Copernicus
were confirmed by the telescope. The new doctrines were explained
and enforced so that no escape was possible. It was Galileo and not
Copernicus who convinced the reluctant spirits of his day. The work
of one was continued in the other. Not until the time of Newton was
the message fully credited. It was not welcomed until our own day.
To the men of the middle ages the world was a little space shut
