2 76 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cause of any direct benefits that can possibly result from knowing them ;
but because society considers them parts of a good education — because
the absence of such knowledge may bring the contempt of others.
When we have named reading, writing, spelling, grammar, arithmetic,
and sewing, we have named about all the things a girl is taught with
a view to their direct uses in life; and even some of these have more
reference to the good opinion of others than to personal welfare.
Thoroughly to realize the truth that with the mind as with the
body the ornamental precedes the useful, it is needful to glance at
its rationale. This lies in the fact that, from the far past down even
to the present, social needs have subordinated individual needs, and that
the chief social need has been the control of individuals. It is not, as
we commonly suppose, that there are no governments but those of
monarchs, and parliaments, and constituted authorities. These
acknowledged governments are supplemented by other unacknowledged
ones, that grow up in all circles, in which every man or woman strives
to be king or queen or lesser dignitary. To get above some and be
reverenced by them, and to propitiate those who are above us, is the
universal struggle in which the chief energies of life are expended.
By the accumulation of wealth, by style of living, by beauty of dress,
by display of knowledge or intellect, each tries to subjugate others ; and
so aids in weaving that ramified network of restraints by which society
is kept in order. It is not the savage chief only, who, in formidable
war-paint, with scalps at his belt aims to strike awe into his inferiors;
it is not only the belle who, by elaborate toilet, polished manners, and
numerous accomplishments, strives to make conquests; but the scholar,
the historian, the philosopher, use their acquirements to the same end.
We are none of us content with quietly unfolding our own individuali-
ties to the full in all directions; but have a restless craving to impress
our individualities upon others, and in some way subordinate them.
And this it is which determines the character of our education. Not
what knowledge is of most real worth, is the consideration; but what
will bring most applause, honor, respect — what will most conduce to
social position and influence — what will be most imposing. As,
throughout life, not what we are, but what we shall be thought, is the
question; so in education, the question is, not the intrinsic value of
knowledge, so much as its extrinsic effects on others. And this being
our dominant idea, direct utility is scarcely more regarded than by
the barbarian when filing his teeth and staining his nails.
^ ^ ^
Thus far our question has been, the worth of knowledge of this or
that kind for purposes of guidance. We have now to judge the relative
values of different kinds of knowledge for purposes of discipline.
This division of our subject we are obliged to treat with comparative
