2 78 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
them all. And when we pass to the organic sciences, the effort of
memory required becomes still greater. In human anatomy alone, the
quantity of detail is so great, that the young surgeon has commonly to
get it up half a dozen times before he can permanently retain it. The
number of species of plants which botanists distinguish, amounts to
some 320,000; while the varied forms of animal life with which the
zoologist deals, are estimated at some two millions. So vast is the
accumulation of facts which men of science have before them, that
only by dividing and subdividing their labors can they deal with it.
To a complete knowledge of his own division, each adds but a general
knowledge of the rest. Surely, then, science, cultivated even to a very
moderate extent, affords adequate exercise for memory. To say the
very least it involves quite as good a training for this faculty as
language does.
But now mark that while for the training of mere memory, science
is as good as, if not better than, language; it has an immense superiority
in the kind of memory it cultivates. In the acquirement of a language,
the connexions of ideas to be established in the mind correspond to facts
that are in great measure accidental; whereas, in the acquirement of
science, the connexions of ideas to be established in the mind corre-
spond to facts that are mostly necessary. It is true that the relations
of words to their meaning is in one sense natural, and that the genesis
of these relations may be traced back a certain distance; though very
rarely to the beginning; (to which let us add the remark that the laws
of this genesis form a branch of mental science — the science of phi-
lology). But since it will not be contended that in the acquisition of
languages, as ordinarily carried on, these natural relations between
words and their meanings are habitually traced, and the laws regulating
them explained; it must be admitted that they are commonly learned
as fortuitous relations. On the other hand, the relations which science
presents are casual relations; and, when properly taught, are under-
stood as such. Instead of being practically accidental, they are neces-
sary ; and as such, give exercise to the reasoning faculties. While lan-
guage familiarizes with non-rational relations, science familiarizes with
rational relations. While the one exercises memory only, the other
exercises both memory and understanding.
Observe next that a great superiority of science over language as a
means of discipline, is, that it cultivates the judgment. As, in a lec-
ture on mental education delivered at the Eoyal Institution, Professor
Faraday well remarks, the most common intellectual fault is deficiency
of judgment. He contends that society, speaking generally, is not
only ignorant as respects education of the judgment, but it is also igno-
rant of its ignorance. And the cause to which he ascribes this state is
want of scientific culture. The truth of his conclusion is obvious.
