}yHAT K^OW LEDGE IS OF MOST ]yORTHf 279
Correct judgment with regard to all surrounding things, events, and
consequences, becomes possible only through knowledge of the way in
which surrounding phenomena depend on each other. JSTo extent of
acquaintance with the meanings of words, can give the power of form-
ing correct inferences respecting causes and effects. The constant habit
of drawing conclusions from data, and then of verifying those con-
clusions by observation and experiment, can alone give the power of
judging correctly. And that it necessitates this habit is one of the
immense advantages of science.
Not only, however, for intellectual discipline is science the best;
but also for moral discipline. The learning of languages tends, if
anything, further to increase the already undue respect for authority.
Such and such are the meanings of these words, says the teacher or
the dictionary. So and so is the rule in this case, says the grammar.
By the pupil these dicta are received as unquestionable. His constant
attitude of mind is that of submission to dogmatic teaching. And a
necessary result is a tendency to accept without inquiry whatever is
established. Quite opposite is the attitude of mind generated by the
cultivation of science. By science, constant appeal is made to
individual reason. Its truths are not accepted upon authority
alone; but all are at liberty to test them — nay, in many cases,
the pupil is required to think out his own conclusions. Every step
in a scientific investigation is submitted to his judgment. He is not
asked to admit it without seeing it to be true. And the trust in his
own powers thus produced, is further increased by the constancy with
which Nature justifies his conclusions when they are correctly drawn.
From all which there flows that independence which is a most valuable
element in character. Nor is this the only moral benefit bequeathed
by scientific culture. When carried on, as it should always be, as
much as possible under the form of independent research, it exercises
perseverance and sincerity. As says Professor Tyndall of inductive
inquiry, it requires patient industry, and an humble and conscientious
acceptance of what Nature reveals. The first condition of success is
an honest receptivity and a willingness to abandon all preconceived
notions, however cherished, if they be found to contradict the truth.
Believe me, a self-renunciation which has something noble in it, and of
which the world never hears, is often enacted in the private experience
of the true votary of science.
Lastly we have to assert — and the assertion will, we doubt not, cause
extreme surprise — that the discipline of science is superior to that of
our ordinary education, because of the religious culture that it gives.
Of course we do not here use the words scientific and religious in their
ordinary limited acceptations ; but in their widest and highest accepta-
tions. Doubtless, to the superstitions that pass under the name of
