2 8o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
religion, science is antagonistic; but not to the essential religion
which these superstitions merely hide. Doubtless, too, in much
of the science that is current, there is a pervading spirit of irre-
ligion ; but not in that true science which has passed beyond the super-
ficial into the profound.
True science and true religion, says Professor Huxley at the close of a
recent course of lectures, are twin-sisters, and the separation of either from
the other is sure to prove the death of both. Science prospers exactly in
proportion as it is religious; and religion flourishes in exact proportion to
the scientific depth and firmness of its basis. The great deeds of philosophers
have been less the fruit of their intellect than of the direction of that intellect
by an eminently religious tone of mind. Truth has yielded herself rather to
their patience, their love, their single-heartedness, and their self-denial, than
to their logical acumen.
* * *
We conclude, then, that for discipline, as well as for guidance,
science is of chiefest value. In all its effects, learning the meanings
of things, is better than learning the meanings of words. Whether for
intellectual, moral, or religious training, the study of surrounding
phenomena is immensely superior to the study of grammars and
lexicons.
Thus to the question with which we set out — What knowledge is of
most worth? — the uniform reply is — Science. This is the verdict on
all the counts. For direct self-preservation, or the maintenance of life
and health, the all-important knowledge is — Science. For that indirect
self-preservation which we call gaining a livelihood, the knowledge of
greatest value is — Science. For the due discharge of parental func-
tions, the proper guidance is to be found only in — Science. For that
interpretation of national life, past and present, without which the
citizen can not rightly regulate his conduct, the indispensable key is —
Science. Alike for the most perfect production and highest enjoyment
of art in all its forms, the needful preparation is still — Science. And
for purposes of discipline — intellectual, moral, religious — the most effi-
cient study is, once more — Science. The question which at first seemed
so perplexed, has become, in the course of our inquiry, comparatively
simple. We have not to estimate the degrees of importance of different
orders of human activity, and different studies as severally fitting us
for them; since we find that the study of Science, in its most compre-
hensive meaning, is the best preparation for all these orders of activity.
We have not to decide between the claims of knowledge of great though
conventional value, and knowledge of less though intrinsic value ; seeing
that the knowledge which we find to be of most value in all other
respects, is intrinsically most valuable : its worth is not dependent upon
opinion, but is as fixed as is the relation of man to the surrounding
