WHAT KNOWLEDGE IS OF MOST WORTH? 281
world. Necessary and eternal as are its truths, all Science concerns
all mankind for all time. Equally at present, and in the remotest
future, must it be of incalculable importance for the regulation of their
conduct, that men should understand the science of life, physical,
mental, and social; and that they should understand all other science
as a key to the science of life.
And yet the knowledge which is of such transcendent value is that
which, in our age of boasted education, receives the least attention.
While this which we call civilization could never have arisen had it not
been for science; science forms scarcely an appreciable element in what
men consider civilized training. Though to the progress of science
we owe it, that millions find support where once there was food only
for thousands ; yet of these millions but a few thousands pay any respect
to that which has made their existence possible. Though this increas-
ing knowledge of the properties and relations of things has not only
enabled wandering tribes to grow into populous nations, but has given
to the countless members of those populous nations comforts and pleas-
ures which their few naked ancestors never even conceived, or could
have believed, yet is this kind of knowledge only now receiving a grudg-
ing recognition in our highest educational institutions. To the slowly
growing acquaintance with the uniform co-existences and sequences of
phenomena — to the establishment of invariable laws, we owe our
emancipation from the grossest superstitions. But for science we
should be still worshipping fetishes; or, with hecatombs of victims,
propitiating diabolical deities. And yet this science, which, in place
of the most degrading conceptions of things, has given us some insight
into the grandeurs of creation, is written against in our theologies and
frowned upon from our pulpits.
Paraphrasing an Eastern fable, we may say that in the family of
knowledges, Science is the household drudge, who, in obscurity, hides
unrecognized perfections. To her has been committed all the work;
by her skill, intelligence, and devotion, have all the conveniences and
gratifications been obtained ; and while ceaselessly occupied ministering
to the rest, she has been kept in the background, that her haughty
sisters might flaunt their fripperies in the eyes of the world. The
parallel holds yet further. For we are fast coming to the denouement,
when the positions will be changed ; and while these haughty sisters sink
into merited neglect. Science, proclaimed as highest alike in worth and
beauty, will reign supreme.
