282
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
HERBERT SPENCER.
The world loses one of its few great
men in the death of Herbert Spencer.
Thirty years ago there lived and
worked in Great Britain a notable
group of leaders — ^Darwin, Hiixley,
Browning, Tennyson, Carlyle, Ruskin,
Thackeray, Gladstone and many more.
One by one they have died, each time
leaving an empty space that remains
unfilled. We have still Kelvin, Watts,
Swinburne and Mereditli, but the
voices of the Victorian era are now
nearly silent. It is perhaps needful
to go back to the Elizabethan age for a
period of parallel efHorescence ; and it
may be that such will not again recur
even after three hundred years.
Spencer believed in universal evolu-
tion rather than in miracles wrought
by the individual; and it is certainly
true that his own work was the result
rather than the cause of certain lead-
ing tendencies of the nineteenth cen-
tury. Evolution and the conservation
of energy are the great legacy handed
on to the twentieth century, no longer
speculations of the philosophers, but
part of the real life of every one.
Spencer more completely and more per-
fectly than any other represented these
truths and made them our common
heritage. In the preface to the fourth
edition of the First Principles, he
explains that the doctrine of evolution
was maintained by him two or even four
years before the publication of the
Origin of Species. As a matter of
fact the idea of world evolution goes
back almost to the beginning of
thought; it is clearly stated for in-
organic matter and living things by the
Greek philosophers and again by Kant,
Laplace, Goethe and Lamarck. It is
a question whether eA^en Darwins * nat-
ural selection, which does not after all
play a leading part in Spencers phi-
losophy, can not be found in Aristotle.
Evolution was clearly in the air in
the middle decades of the nineteenth
century. Thus before Darwin or
Spencer, Tennyson wrote and printed
the line verses:
So careful of the type? but no.
From scarped cliff and quarried
stone -
Slie cries, A thousand types are
gone:
I care for nothing, ail shall go.
* *****
The solid earth whereon we tread
In tracts of fluent heat began,
And grew to seeming random forms,
The seeming prey of cyclic storms,
Till at the last arose the man.
Of these ideas Spencer became the
leading representative, his bold for-
mulas appealing directly to the people
to an extent that could not be expected
of Darwins patient investigations.
The methods of the two men are com-
pared in a letter from Darwin to John
Eiske :
I find that my mind is so fixed by
the inductive method that I can not
appreciate deductive reasoning: I
must begin with a good body of facts
and not from a principle (in w^hich I
always suspect some fallacy) and
then as much deduction as you please.
This may be very narrow-minded;
but the result is that such parts of
H. Spencer as I have read with care
impress my mind with the idea of
his inexhaustible wealth of sugges-
tion, but never convince me.
If others were as frank as Darwin,
many would say with him : With the
exception of special points I did not
even understand H. Spencers general
doctrine; for his style is too hard work
for me. But Spencer appealed to the
emotions as well as to the intellect.
