THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
iS-
His work justified the abandonment
of certain narrow dogmas, which left
an exhilarating sense of emancipation.
There was more truly a Spencerian re-
ligion than any resulting from the
positivism of Comte. This was partic-
ularly the case in America, and The
Popular Science Monthly was largely
responsible. Spencer opened the first
volume in 1872, and contributed in
all ninety-one articles. The editorial
writings of E. L. and W. J. Youmans
were always enthusiastically loyal to
the Spencerian iloctrines and the
Spencerian religion. No greater ser-
vice could at the time have been per-
formed for the freedom of thought and
the progress of civilization.
But the great representative of evo-
lution, though he may be interpreted
as regarding his own doctrines as final,
must surely have rejoiced in the fur-
ther progress of science and of thought.
His works on biologj- and on psychology
have been superseded. He clearly rep-
resented the conflicting tendencies of
his age. He devoted his life to what
is perhaps the last great system of
synthetic philosophy, when the induct-
ive sciences were becoming predomi-
nant. He was an ardent individualist,
while advocating a theory that subordi-
nates the individual to the world pat-
tern. He leaves the problems of
idealism and materialism face to face.
It is not necessary to enter here into
details in regard to Spencers life.
Very characteristically he has left his
autobiography stereotyped and ready
for the press. A sketch with his por-
trait will be found in the issue of this
magazine for March, 1876. We repro-
duce as a frontispiece, by the courtesy
of Messrs. D. Appleton and Company,
an engraving of a bust of Spencer at
the age of seventy- six, modeled by Mr.
Onslow Ford and presented to him by
his admirers. Spencers life was at
once formal and heroic. Burdened by
ill-health and comparative poverty, he
would dictate to an amanuensis for
fifteen minutes at a time, resulting in
a productivity of some 300 words a
day. Without family or intimate
friends, he led a lonely life. But he
ne\er faltered in his devotion to his
plans and ideals. After eighty-three
years he is now dead ; but his work is
immortal, not only in the history of
thought, but also in
The choir invisible
Whose music is the gladness of the
world.
THE CONVOCATION WEEK MEET-
INGS OF SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES.
Those readers of this journal who
are interested in the organization of
science will remember that American
scientific societies and institutions of
learning have set aside the week in
which the first day of January falls
as a time of convocation for scientific
meetings. Until last year the Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement
of Science and its affiliated societies
met in midsummer, while the American
Society of Naturalists and a number of
societies devoted to the biological sci-
ences met in the Christmas holidays.
Certain societies, such as the American
Chemical Society and the Geological
Society of America, held meetings at
both times. All these societies met
together last year at Washington dur-
ing convocation week, making the larg-
est and most influential gathering of
scientific men that this country has
witnessed.
There will this year be a certain
amount of division. The American
Association and the Naturalists with
twenty affiliated societies will meet at
St. Louis. The Zoologists and four
other societies concerned with biology
will meet at Philadelphia, and the
Philosophical Association will meet at
Princeton. The Economists and Histor-
ians, who have not as yet become affili-
ated with the scientific societies, will
meet at New Orleans. It seems evident
that the American Association must
be a national organization and that
there should be societies for the differ-
ent sciences which are national in scope.
Owing to the great area of the country
