284
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
these societies must ue broken up into
sections; but the most efficient form of
organization has still to be worked out.
A general meeting of the scientific men
of the country appears to be essential;
but it is possible that this can only
take place once in three years, the meet-
ings being more local in the intervening
years. There should, however, be one
central place of meeting each year,
where the societies of the whole coun-
try can be represented by delegates,
should a plebiscite be impossible. It
has been agreed that for the present
U. S. Commissioner of Labor and presi-
dent of Clark College, presides over the
association, and Dr. Ira Remsen, presi-
dent of the Johns Hopkins University,
gives the address of the retiring presi-
dent. Professor William Trelease,
director of the Missouri Botanical
Gardens, gives the presidential ad-
dress before the Society of Naturalists,
and the public lecture is to be delivered
by President David Starr Jordan of
Stanford University. It would require
many pages to give details of the
programs; they will be found in part
Central High School, in which the American Association for the Advancement of
Science and Affiliated Societies will meet during Convocation Week.
this general meeting should be in the
eastern states twice and in the central
or western states once in three years.
The general meeting is this year at
St. Louis, and it will doubtless rival in
interest and importance the Washing-
ton meeting. Counting the sections of
the American Association, there will
be at least thirty scientific organiza-
tions in session, and the officers alone
make a representative body of scien-
tific men. The Hon. Carroll D. Wriglit,
in recent numbers of Science and in the
local program issued by the association.
The latter can be obtained from the
permanent secretary. Dr. L. 0. Howard,
Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C, to
whom also applications for membership
should be addressed. All scientific
workers in the central states and also
those interested in science not now
members should make the St. Louis
meeting the occasion of acquiring mem-
bership.
