THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
285
THE CARNEGIE INSTITUTION.
The trustees of the Carnegie Institu-
tion held their second annual meeting
at Washington on December 9. Noth-
ing that has become known in regard to
this meeting will tend to allay the anx-
iety with, which men of science are
watching the administration of this
great trust. It is reported that Dr.
Oilman presented a letter to the trus-
tees announcing his intention to resign
the presidency at the close of next year.
The institution will consequently drift
along for another year, and its im-
mediate future will in large measure
depend on the president then chosen.
There is no reason to doubt the ulti-
mate outcome, and even the present
conditions are only what might have
been expected. Special creations are
no longer regarded as feasible. The
reply may be called to mind of the little
boy, who on being asked who made him,
said God made me one foot big, and
I growed the rest. A new foundation
such as Mr. Carnegies can only grad-
ually become a true organism adjusted
to the environment.
Mr. Carnegies original plan of es-
tablishing a research university at
Washington was comparatively plain
sailing. The trustees are now divided
as to policy, some wishing to establish
certain laboratories at Washington,
and others perferring to distribute sub-
sidies throughout the country. The
latter plan has been adopted; it has the
obvious advantage of not committing
the institution as to the future. No
special objection can be made to the
way the subsidies have been allotted.
It is quite certain, for example, that
the Harvard, Lick, Yerkes, Dudley and
Princeton Observatories can spend to
advantage any money that may be en-
trusted to them. Almost any grant for
research made to men of science of
established reputation will bear fruit
a hundredfold. There is, however, an
obverse to the shield. Such grants in-
hibit individual initiative and local
support ; they are likely to produce a
certain subserviency to the powers that
deal out money, and may lead to
jealousy and intrigues.
It is perhaps scarcely fair to object
to a board of trustees consisting chiefly
of prominent politicians, lawyers and
business men, who meet once a year,
and can not be expected to give much
attention to the affairs of a scientific
institution, nor to have much knowl-
edge of its scope and possibilities.
Such boards are an established Ameri-
can institution, controlling universities,
banks, etc. Their principal duty is to
select efficient officers of administration.
But the Carnegie Institution has been
unfortunate in its first officers. Three
men were largely instrumental in per-
suading Mr. Carnegie to make the
original gift, and they have assumed
control of its administration. This
triumvirate has been at the same time
autocratic and feeble, and has by no
means worked in harmony. Antony
may be supposed to say to Octavius:
And thoug-h we lay these honors on
this man,
To ease ourselves of divers slandrous
loads,
He shall but bear them as the ass
bears gold.
To groan and sweat under the busi-
ness.
Either led or driven, as we point the
way;
And having- broug^ht our treasure
where we will.
Then take we down his load, and
turn him off.
Like to the empty ass, to shake his
ears,
And graze in commons.
Whether after the ensuing war
Antony, Octavius or another will or
should become Csesar need not here be
considered; but in the meanwhile and
perhaps thereafter science will suffer.
The fundamental difficulty is that no
method has been found for consulting
the consensus of opinion of scientific
men. An American university has an
absentee board in nominal control and
a president as benevolent despot; but
there is a faculty, which after all is
the real university. The Carnegie In-
stitution has no similar body; and
until it is formed, it will drift along
without compass or rudder.
