THE RENAISSANCE OF SCIENCE. 25
tight within a wheelwork of revolving spheres. It was compendious,
complete, ingenious, like a toy in a crystal box. Beyond the outer shell
nothing existed. The heavens were incorruptible. No change could
occur in the whole system, save on the earth alone. The universe was
created for the sole use of man. It was small and finite. To us, the
awful infinitudes of space are only to be faintly imagined after a series
of conceptions, each one so overwhelming that it fades after the briefest
instant of realization. Human attention can not grasp the whole series
in one view. Each one of the myriad stars is a sun like our own, sub-
jected, as it is, to prodigious physical alterations and catastrophies.
Each one is, perhaps, surrounded by a train of planets, like those we
know, that must forever remain invisible to our vision. The condition
of every celestial body is perpetually changing in a long progress of
evolution. Each separate star is situated as far from every other as
our own sun from the very nearest of them all. Every star is in
motion. The sun, so mighty and all-powerful to us, is but a feeble
light among thousands of millions of others scattered so sparsely
throughout the never-ending expanse that centuries are needed even
for their light to traverse the intervening spaces. In the feeble light
of that sunbeam, vital to us, the earth, our mother, shines like the
merest mote. Its past is limited, its future insecure. With its finite
history the fate of mankind is bound up.
We must not forget that the modern view of the universe is very
different from that of Copernicus. Before his day the earth was mo-
tionless in the center of the world. After it the earth was in perpetual
motion about the sun. Copernicus conceived the sun as fixed. But
under Newtons law of universal gravitation there can be no fixed
bodies. All are in motion. Our sun with its train of planets is
speeding through space towards a goal as yet unknown. Newtons law
of gravitation banished rest from the universe. To Copernicus as to
Ptolemy rest was the natural state to which all bodies tended. They
moved only when perpetually urged. The science of mechanics
founded by Galileo and Newton changed all this. The real reformation
of science dates from the acceptance of the new conception.
