288
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
protection from the fierce gales that
sweep across the bay in the typhoon
season, and it is now being developed
as a park. It is to be hoped, however,
that a botanical garden and experiment
station will be established at a higher
elevation. Since the organization of the
Bureaus of Agriculture and Forestry
last year, considerable progress has
been made in the study of the botany
of the islands, herbaria containing
about 5,000 specimens having been
made. The New York Botanical Gar-
den has sent a special agent to the
islands, and it is probable that more
knowledge will be secured of the botany
of the Philippines during the next ten
years than during the preceding four
hundred years of Spanish rule.
HENRY BARKER HILL.
We reproduce above a portrait of
Henry Baker Hill, whose death was
a serious loss to Harvard University
and the science of chemistry and who
died at the comparatively early age
of fifty-four years. Hill inherited his
intellectual and academic interests, his
father being president of Harvard Uni-
versity, and he early selected chem-
istry as his special field, his com-
mencement oration being entitled The
New Philosophy of Chemistry. He
was a student under and assistant to
Professor Josiah P. Cooke, who first
introduced laboratory methods of in-
struction, and when he himself be-
came professor and director of the
laboratory, he maintained its high tra-
ditions. Hills research work was
very special in character, being al-
most exclusively confined to the group
of substances derived, from furfurol;
but the thoroughness and exactness of
these investigations take high place as
contributions to the development of
organic chemistry.
SCIENTIFIC ITEMS.
We regret to record the deaths, dur-
ing the past month of Dr. H. Carring-
ton Bolton, of Washington, well-known
as a chemist and bibliographer ; of Dr.
Frank Russell, of Harvard University,
a student of anthropology; of Dr.
Cloudsley Rutter, of the Bureau of
Fisheries; of Mr. Marcus Baker, of the
U. S. Geological Survey and assistant
secretary of the Carnegie Institution;
of Professor Arthur Allin, head of the
Department of Psychology and Educa-
tion at the University of Colorado, and
of Dr. George J. Engelmann, the
eminent physician and gynecologist.
The Popular Science Monthly has
very recently published contributions
from Dr. Bolton, Dr. Engelmann and
Dr. Rutter.
The following is a list of those to
whom the Royal Society has this year
awarded medals- The Copley medal to
Professor Eduard Suess for his emi-
nent geological services, and especially
for the original researches and con-
clusions published in his great work
Das Antlitz der Erde. A royal medal
to Sir David Gill for his researches in
solar and stellar parallax, and his
energetic direction of the Royal Ob-
servatory at the Cape of Good Hope.
A royal medal to Mr. Horace T. Brown
for his work on the chemistry of the
carbohydrates and on the assimilation
of carbonic acid by green plants. The
Davy medal to M. Pierre and Madame
Curie for their researches on radium.
The Hughes medal to Professor Wil-
helm Hittorf for his long continued ex-
perimental researches on the electric
discharge in liquids and gases.
