292 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Uill be reached as a necessary consequence, for the intercourse stim-
ulates thought, and thought leads to work, and work leads to wider
usefulness.
While in 1848, when the association was organized and the consti-
tution was adopted, there was a fair number of good scientific investi-
gators in this country, it is certain that in the half century that has
passed since then the number of investigators has increased very
largely, and naturally the amount of scientific work done at present
is very much greater than it was at that time. So great has been the
increase in scientific activity during recent years that we are apt to
think that by comparison scientific research is a new acquisition. In
fact there appears to be an impression abroad that in the world at
large scientific research is a relatively new thing, for which we of this
generation and our immediate predecessors are largely responsible.
Only a superficial knowledge of the history of science is necessary,
however, to show that the sciences have been developed slowly, and that
their beginnings are to be looked for in the very earliest times. Every-
thing seems to point to the conclusion that men have always been
engaged in efforts to learn more and more in regard to the world in
which they find themselves. Sometimes they have been guided by one
motive and sometimes by another, but the one great underlying motive
has been the desire to get a clearer and clearer understanding of the
universe. But besides this there has been the desire to find means of
increasing the comfort and happiness of the human race.
A reference to the history of chemistry will serve to show how these
motives have operated side by side. One of the first great incentives
for working with chemical things was the thought that it was possible
to convert base metals like lead and copper into the so-called noble
metals, silver and gold. Probably no idea has ever operated as strongly
as this upon the minds of men to lead them to undertake chemical
experiments. It held control of intellectual men for centuries and it
was not until about a hundred years ago that it lost its hold. It is
very doubtful if the purely scientific question whether one form of
matter can be transformed into another would have had the power to
control the activities of investigators for so long a time; and it is idle
to speculate upon this subject. It should, however, be borne in mind
that many of those who were engaged in this work were actuated by a
desire to put money in their purses — a desire that is by no means to
be condemned without reserve, and I mention it not for the purpose
of condemning it, but to show that a motive that we sometimes think
of as peculiarly modern is among the oldest known to man.
While the alchemists were at work upon their problems, another
class of chemists were engaged upon problems of an entirely different
nature. The fact that substances obtained from various natural
