SCIENTIFIC IKVESTIGATIOX AXD PROGRESS. 293
sources and others made in the laboratory produce effects of various
kinds when taken into the system led to the thought that these sub-
stances might be useful in the treatment of disease. Then, further, it
Avas thought that disease itself is a chemical phenomenon. These
thoughts, as is evident, furnish strong motives for the investigation of
chemical substances, and the science of chemistry owes much to the
work of those who were guided by these motives.
And so in each j)eriod as a new thought has served as the guide we
find that men have been actuated by different motives, and often one
and the same worker has been under the influence of mixed motives.
Only in a few cases does it appear that the highest motives alone op-
erate. We must take men as we find them, and we mav be thankful
that on the whole there are so many who are impelled by one motive or
another or by a mixture of motives to take up the work of investigating
the world in which we live. Great progress is being made in conse-
quence and almost daily we are called upon to wonder at some new and
marvelous result of scientific investigation. It is quite impossible to
make predictions of value in regard to what is likely to be revealed to
us by continued work, but it is safe to believe that in our efforts to dis-
cover the secrets of the universe only a beginning has been made. No
matter in what direction we may look we are aware of great unexplored
territories, and even in those regions in which the greatest advances
have been made it is evident that the knowledge gained is almost insig-
nificant as compared with that which remains to be learned. But this
line of thought may lead to a condition bordering on hopelessness and
despondenc}, and surely we should avoid this condition, for there is
much greater cause for rejoicing than for despair. Our successors will
see more and see more clearly than we do, just as we see more and see
more clearl}^ than our predecessors. It is our duty to keep the work
going without being too anxious to weigh the results on an absolute
scale. It must be remembered that the absolute scale is not a very
sensitive instrument, and that it requires the results of generations to
affect it markedly.
On an occasion of this kind it seems fair to ask the question:
What does the world gain by scientific investigation? This question
has often been asked and often answered, but each answer differs in
some respects from the others and each may be suggestive and worth
giving. The question is a profound one, and no answer that can be
given would be satisfactory. In general it may be said that the results
of scientific investigation fall under three heads — the material, the
intellectual and the ethical.
The material residts are the most obvious and they naturally receive
the most attention. The material wants of man are the first to receive
consideration. They can not be neglected. He must have food and
r
i
\ -.
I
\ -
\
