SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION AND rEOGRESS. 295
application in agriculture. The use of these substances, especially of
saltpeter, is increasing rapidly. At present it seems that the successful
cultivation of the soil is dependent upon the use of nitrates, and the
supply of nitrates is limited. Unless something is done we may look
forward to the time when the earth, for lack of proper fertilizers, will
not be able to produce as much as it now does, and meanwhile the
demand for food is increasing. According to the most reliable estima-
tions indeed the saltpeter beds will be exhausted in thirty or forty
years. Is there a way out? Dr. Frank shows that there is. In tlie
air there is nitrogen enough for all. The plants can make only a
limited use of this directly. For the most part it must be in some
form of chemical combination as, for example, a nitrate or ammonia.
The conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into nitric acid would solve
the problem, and this is now carried out. But Dr. Frank shows that
there is another, perhaps more economical, way of getting the nitrogen
into a form suitable for plant food. Calcium carbide can now be made
without difficulty and is made in enormous quantities by the action of
a powerful electric current upon a mixture of coal and lime. This
substance has the power of absorbing nitrogen from the air, and the
product thus formed appears to be capable of giving up its nitrogen
to plants, or, in other words, to be a good fertilizer. It is true that
this subject requires further investigation, but the results thus far
obtained are full of promise. If the outcome should be what we have
reason to hope, we may regard the approaching exhaustion of the salt-
peter beds with equanimity. But, even without this to pin our faith
to, we have the preparation of nitric acid from the nitrogen and oxygen
of the air to fall back upon.
While speaking of the food problem, a few words in regard to the
artificial preparation of foodstuffs. I am sorry to say that there is not
much of promise to report upon in this connection. In spite of the
brilliant achievements of chemists in the field of synthesis it remains
true that thus far they have not been able to make, except in very small
quantities, substances that are useful as foods, and there is absolutely
no prospect of this result being reached within a reasonable time. A
few years ago Berthelot told us of a dream he had had. This has to
do with the results that, according to Berthelot, are to be brought about
by the advance of chemistry. The results of investigations already
accomplished indicate that, in the future, methods will perhaps be de-
vised for the artificial preparation of food from the water and carbonic
acid so abundantly supplied by nature. Agriculture will then become
unnecessary, and the landscape will not be disfigured by crops growing
in geometrical figures. Water will be obtained from holes three or
four miles deep in the earth, and this water will be above the boiling
temperature, so that it can be used as a source of energy. It will be
