26 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS.
By F. J. ALLEN, M.A., M.D., Cantab.,
LATE PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY IN MASON UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, BIRMINGHAM.
rriHE question whether life exists in any other worlds than our own
-^ is one in which very many persons feel an interest, and about
which much has been said and written; but if the man of ordinary
education has any ideas on the subject, they are generally mistaken ; and
even scientists are prone to regard it too exclusively in the light of
their particular science, and thus to conceive and propagate fallacies
which might be easily avoided.
Of course no absolute answer to the question can be given until
perchance some hitherto undreamt-of means shall be discovered for
the observation of distant worlds. We can hardly forward the matter
by mere speculation on general grounds, such as the law of probabilities,
or the relative position of worlds in the universe. Nevertheless there
is one method by which we can at least guard ourselves against errone-
ous speculation, and prepare the way for discovery when the oppor-
tunity comes; and that method is, to find out the conditions on which
terrestrial life depends, and then to search other worlds and find if
possible whether they provide similar or parallel conditions.
Though the ultimate nature of life is as yet unknown to us, its
secrets are being gradually unraveled by research; and it becomes
more and more apparent that the phenomena of life are but special and
intricate developments of physical action. The most prominent and
perhaps most fundamental characteristic of life is what may be called
the energy traffic, or the function of trading in energy; and the
phenomena of assimilation, growth, movement, etc., are the outward
and visible signs of this traflfic. Living substance possesses in the
highest degree the property of absorbing radiant energy, as heat or
light, storing it in a potential form, and subsequently expending it in
active forms such as motion, mechanical work, heat and electricity.
Actions of this kind are not unknown in the inorganic world. For
example, the atmosphere and ocean absorb the energy of light and
heat from the sun, store it temporarily and convert it subsequently into
the energy of wind and wave, lightning and thunder. But in living
substance there exists a more finely coordinated energy-trading system,
evolved out of the chemical capacities of a small number of elements
acting under the physical conditions which prevail on our planet.
The energy traffic depends, no doubt, on causes at present unknown
to us; and some biologists are wont to personify these causes as a
