296 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
obtained in liquid form after it has undergone a process of natural
distillation, which will free it from all impurities, including, of course,
disease germs. The foods prepared by artificial methods will also be
free from microbes, and there will consequently be less disease than
at present. Further, the necessity for killing animals for food will
no longer exist, and mankind will become gentler and more amenable
to higher influences. There is, no doubt, much that is fascinating in
this line of thought, but whether it is worth following, depends upon the
fundamental assumption. Is it at all probable that chemists will ever
be able to devise methods for the artificial preparation of foodstuffs?
I can only say that to me it does not appear probable in the light of
the results tlius far obtained. I do not mean to question the proba-
bility of the ultimate synthesis of some of those substances that are of
value as foods. This has already been accomplished on the small scale,
but for the most part the synthetical processes employed have involved
the use of substances which themselves are the products of natural
processes. Thus, the fats can be made, but the substances from which
they are made are generally obtained from nature and are not them-
selves synthetical products. Emil Fischer has, to be sure, made very
small quantities of sugars of different kinds, but the task of building
up a sugar from the raw material furnished by nature — that is to say,
from carbonic acid and water — presents such difficulties that it may be
said to be practically impossible.
When it comes to starch, and the proteids wliieh are the other chief
constituents of foodstuffs, the difficulties are still greater. There is
not a suggestion of the possibility of making starch artificially, and the
same is true of the proteids. In this connection it is, however, inter-
esting to note that Emil Fischer, after his remarkable successes in the
sugar group and the uric acid group, is now advancing upon the pro-
teids. I have heard it said that at the beginning of his career he made
out a program for his life work. This included the solution of three
great problems. These are the determination of the constitution of
uric acid, of the sugars and of the proteids. Two of these problems
have been solved. May he be equally successful with the third ! Even
if he should be able to make a proteid, and show what it is, the problem
of the artificial preparation of foodstuffs will not be solved. Indeed,
it will hardly be affected.
Although science is not likely, within periods that we may venture
to think of, to do away with the necessity of cultivating the soil, it is
likely to teach us how to get more out of the soil than we now do, and
thus put us in a position to provide for the generations that are to
follow us. And this carries with it the thought that, unless scientific
investigation is kept up, these coming generations will be unprovided
for.
