298 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the way in which diseases are transmitted. With this knowledge it
is possible to prevent the diseases. The great fact that the death rate
is decreasing stands out prominently and proclaims to humanity the
importance of scientific investigation. It is, however, to be noted in
this connection that the decrease in the death rate compensates to some
extent for the decrease in the birth rate, and that, if an increase in
population is a thing to be desired, the investigations in the field of
sanitary science are contributing to this result.
The development of the human race is dependent not alone upon
a supply of food but upon a supply of energy in available forms. Heat
and mechanical energy are absolutely essential to man. The chief
source of the energy that comes into play is fuel. We are primarily
dependent upon the coal supply for the continuation of the activities
of man. Without this, unless something is to take its place, man is
doomed. Statistics in regard to the coal supply and the rate at which
it is being used have so frequently been presented by those who have
special knowledge of this subject that I need not trouble you with
them now. The only object in referring to it is to show that, unless
by means of scientific investigation man is taught new methods of
rendering the worlds store of energy available for the production of
heat and of motion, the age of the human race is measured by the
extent of the supply of coal and other forms of fuel. By other forms
of fuel I mean, of course, wood and oil. Plainly, as the demand for
land for the production of foodstuffs increases, the amount available
for the production of wood must decrease, so that wood need not be
taken into account for the future. In regard to oil, our knowledge is
not sufficient to enable us to make predictions of any value. If one of
the theories now held in regard to the source of petroleum should prove
to be correct, the world would find much consolation in it. According
to this theory petroleum is not likely to be exhausted, for it is con-
stantly being formed by the action of water upon carbides that in all
probability exist in practically unlimited quantity in the interior of
the earth. If this be true, then the problem of supplying energy may
be reduced to one of transportation of oil. But given a supply of oil
and, of course, the problem of transportation is solved.
What are the other practical sources of energy? The most impor-
tant is the fall of water. This is being utilized more and more year
by year since the methods of producing electric currents by means of
the dynamo have been worked out. There is plainly much to be learned
before the energy made available in the immediate neighborhood of
the waterfall can be transported long distances economically, but ad-
vances are being made in this line, and already factories that have
hitherto been dependent upon coal are making use of the energy de-
rived from waterfalls. The more rapidly these advances take place
