SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION AND PROGEESS. 299
the less will be the demand for coal, and if there were enough water-
falls conveniently situated, there would be no difficulty in furnishing
all the energy needed by man for heat or for motion.
It is a fortunate thing that, as the population of the earth increases,
mans tastes become more complex. If only the simplest tastes pre-
vailed, only the simplest occupations would be called for. But let us
not lose time in idle speculations as to the way this primitive condition
of things would afEect mans progress. As a matter of fact his tastes
are becoming more complex. Things that are not dreamed of in one
generation become the necessities of the next generation. Many of
these things are the direct results of scientific investigation. jSTo end
of examples will suggest themselves. Let me content myself by refer-
ence to one that has of late been the subject of much discussion. The
development of the artificial dye-stuff industries is extremely instruc-
tive in many ways. The development has been the direct result of the
scientific investigation of things that seemed to have little, if anything,
to do with this world. Many thousands of workmen are now em-
ployed, and many millions of dollars are invested, in the manufacture
of dye-stuffs that were unknown a few j^ears ago. Here plainly the
fundamental fact is the esthetic desire of man for colors. A colorless
world would be unbearable to him. Nature accustoms him to color in
a great variety of combinations, and it becomes a necessity to him.
And his desires increase as they are gratified. There seems to be no
end to development in this line. At all events, the data at our dis-
posal justify the conclusion that there will be a demand for every dye
that combines the qualities of beauty and durability. Thousands of
scientifically trained men are engaged in work in the effort to discover
new dyes to meet the increasing demands. New industries are spring-
ing up and many find employment in them. As a rule the increased
•demand for labor caused by the establishment of these industries is
not offset by the closing up of other industries. Certainly it is true
that scientific investigation has created large demands for labor that
■could hardly find employment without these demands.
The welfare of a nation depends to a large extent upon the suc-
cess of its industries. In his address as president of the British Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science given last summer Sir Norman
Lockyer quotes Mr. Chamberlain thus : I do not think it is necessary
for me to say anything as to the urgency and necessity of scientific
training. ... It is not too much to say that the existence of this
country, as the great commercial nation, depends upon it. . . . It
depends very much upon what we are doing now, at the beginning of
the twentieth century, whether at its end we shall continue to main-
tain our supremacy or even equality with our great commercial and
manufacturing rivals. In another part of his address Sir Norman
