300 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Lockyer says: Further, I am told that the sum of £24:,000,000 is less
than half the amount by which Germany is yearly enriched by having
improved upon our chemical industries, owing to our lack of scientific
training. Many other industries have been attacked in the same way
since, but taking this one instance alone, if we had spent this money
fifty years ago, when the Prince Consort first called attention to our
backwardness, the nation would now be much richer than it is, and
would have much less to fear from competition.
But enough on the purely material side. Let us turn to the intel-
lectual results of scientific investigation. This part of our subject
might be summed up in a few words. It is so obvious that the intel-
lectual condition of mankind is a direct result of scientific investigation
that one hesitates to make the statement. The mind of man can not
carry him much in advance of his knowledge of the facts. Intellectual
gains can be made only by discoveries, and discoveries can be made only
by investigation. One generation differs from another in the way it
looks at the world. A generation that thinks the earth is the center of
the universe differs intellectually from one that has learned the true
position of the earth in the solar system, and the general relations of
the solar system to other similar systems that make up the universe.
A generation that sees in every species of animal and plant evidence
of a special creative act differs from one that has recognized the gen-
eral truth of the conception of evolution. And so in every department
of knowledge the great generalizations that have been reached through
the persistent efforts of scientific investigators are the intellectual gains
that have resulted. These great generalizations measure the intel-
lectual wealth of mankind. They are the foundations of all profitable
thought. While the generalizations of science belong to the world, not
all the world takes advantage of its opportunities. JsTation differs from
nation intellectually as individual differs from individual. It is not,
however, the possession of knowledge that makes the efficient individual
and the efficient nation. It is well known that an individual may be
very learned and at the same time very inefficient. The question is,
what use does he make of his knowledge? When we speak of intel-
lectual results of scientific investigation, we mean not only accumulated
knowledge, but the way in which this knowledge is invested. A man
who simply accumulates money and does not see to it that this money
is carefully invested, is a miser, and no large results can come from his
efforts. While, then, the intellectual state of a nation is measured
partly by the extent to which it has taken possession of the generaliza-
tions that belong to the world, it is also measured by the extent to which
the methods by which knowledge is accumulated have been brought into
requisition and have become a part of the equipment of the people of
that nation. The intellectual progress of a nation depends upon the
