SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION AND PROGRESS. 301
adoption of scientific methods in dealing with intellectual problems.
The scientific method is applicable to all kinds of intellectual problems.
We need it in every department of activity. I have sometimes won-
dered what the result would be if the scientific method could be em-
ployed in all the manifold problems connected with the managament
of a government. Questions of tariff, of finance, of international rela-
tions would be dealt with much more satisfactorily than at present if
the spirit of the scientific method were breathed into those who are
called upon to deal with these questions. It is plain, I think, that the
higher the intellectual state of a nation the better will it deal with all
the problems that present themselves. As the intellectual state is a
direct result of scientific investigation, it is clear that the nation that
adopts the scientific method will in the end outrank both intellectually
and industriallv the nation that does not.
What are the ethical results of scientific investigation? No one
can tell. There is one thought that in this connection I should like
to impress upon you. The fimdamental characteristic of the scientific
method is honesty. In dealing with any question science asks no
favors. The sole object is to learn the truth, and to be guided by the
truth. Absolute accuracy, absolute fidelity, absolute honesty are the
prime conditions of scientific progress. I believe that the constant use
of the scientific method must in the end leave its impress upon him
who uses it. The results will not be satisfactory in all cases, but the
tendency will be in the right direction. A life spent in accordance
with scientific teachings would be of a high order. It would prac-
tically conform to the teachings of the highest types of religion. The
motives would be different, but so far as conduct is concerned the re-
sults would be practically identical. I need not enlarge vipon this
subject. Unfortunately, abstract truth and knowledge of facts and of
the conclusions to be drawn from them do not at present furnish a
sufficient basis for right living in the case of the great majority of
mankind, and science can not now, and I do not believe it ever can, take
the place of religion in some form. When the feeling that the two are
antagonistic wears away, as it is wearing away, it will no doubt be seen
that one supplements the other, in so far as they have to do with the
conduct of man.
What are we doing in this country to encourage scientific investiga-
tion ? Not until about a quarter of a century ago can it be said that it
met with any encouragement. Since then there has been a great
change. Up to that time research was sporadic. Soon after it became
almost epidemic. The direct cause of the change was the establishing
of courses in our universities for the training of investigators somewhat
upon the lines followed in the German universities. In these courses
the carrying out of an investigation plays an important part. This is
