302 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in fact, the culmination of the course. At first there were not many
following these courses, but it was not long before there was a demand
for the products. Those who could present evidence that they had fol-
lowed such courses were generally given the preference. This was
especially true in the case of appointments in the colleges, some colleges
even going so far as to decline to appoint any one who had not taken
the degree of doctor of philosophy, which is the badge of the course
that involves investigation. As the demand for those who had re-
ceived this training increased, the number of those seeking it increased
at least in the same proportion. New unversities were established and
old ones caught the spirit of the new movement until from one end of
the country to the other centers of scientific activity are now found,
and the amount of research work that is done is enormous compared
with what was done twenty-five or thirty years ago. Many of those
who get a taste of the work of investigation become fascinated by it
and are anxious to devote their lives to it. At present, with the facili-
ties for such work available, it seems probable that most of those who
have a strong desire and the necessary industry and ability to follow
it find their opportunity somewhere. There is little danger of our
losing a genius or even one with fair talent. The world is on the look-
out for them. The demand for those who can do good research work
is greater than the supply. To be sure the material rewards are not as
a rule as great as those that are likely to be won by the ablest members
of some other professions and occupations, and as long as this condition
o? affairs continues to exist there will not be as many men of the
highest intellectual order engaged in this work as we should like to
see. On the other hand, when we consider the great progress that has
been made during the last twenty-five years or so, we have every reason
to take a cheerful view of the future. If as much progress should be
made in the next quarter century, we shall, to say the least, be able to
compete with the foremost nations of the world in scientific investiga-
tion. In my opinion this progress is largely dependent upon the de-
velopment of our universities. Without the opportunities for training
in the methods of scientific investigation there will be but few investi-
gators. It is necessary to have a large number in order that the prin-
ciple of selection may operate. In this line of work as in others, many
are called, but few are chosen.
Another fact that is working advantageously to increase the amount
of scientific research done in this country is the support given by the
government in its different scientific bureaus. The Geological Survey,
the Department of Agriculture, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, the
National Bureau of Standards and other departments are carrying on
a large amount of excellent scientific work, and thus helping most
efficiently to spread the scientific spirit throughout the land.
