304 POPULAR SCIEXCE MO XT II LY
COMRADES IX ZEAL.*
By DAVID STARR JORDAN,
PRESIDENT OF LELAND STANFORD JR. UNIVERSITY.
[^HE Society of Sigma Xi was founded in 1880 at Cornell Univer-
-^ sity. Its godfather was Henry Slialer Williams, and its name,
artoudwv ^u/co-yrj^. companions in zealous research, comrades in zeal, indi-
cates as well as two words can, even in that wonderful language of
the Greeks, the purpose of the society. It was intended to bind to-
gether scientific thought and action, the workers in pure science and
those who dignify it by its application to human affairs.
The society has now its chapters in 16 American universities. Its
members number upwards of 2,500, about 500 of them active, that
is, still lingering about the university which is the center of the col-
lective efforts of Sigma Xi, the rest scattered over the world in the
various avocations appropriate to the zealous comradery.
The society of Sigma Xi stands for the glory of research, the joy
of knowing, the uplift which comes from seeing things as they really
are, and the doing the thing that such seeing shows us ought to be
done. Its essence is in Huxleys phrase the fanaticism for veracity,
the zeal for fair play, that would not have even the least of natures
records slurred over or wrongly interpreted. It stands at the same
time for the zeal for action, for the strenuous use of the knowledge
already acquired in the affairs of men. For pure science and applied
science it finds place alike, for each has its roots in independent re-
search, and in each the fanaticism for veracity is fundamental to the
liighest work. Its purpose is to excite this fanaticism for veracity, and
zeal for action among the university students of America, and to foster
it by means of the fellow-feeling among free spirits, Gemeingeist unter
freien Geistern, which was once declared to uphold scholarshiji in
Germany.
For the Sigma Xi is a university organization dealing with uni-
versity men, and not directly with any others. Moreover, the society
is not the university itself. It is a small part of any one institution
— a large part only when taken in the aggregate. It gives no material
aids to scholarship. It builds no laboratories, establishes no libraries,
endows no fellowships, offers no prizes, grants no honors worthy of the
name. In its elections it picks out youth of promise, enlisting them
as privates in its service. It undertakes to crown no achievement. It
* Address at the first annual banquet of the Honorary Society of Sigma Xi,
St. Louis, December 31, 1903.
