COMRADES IN ZEAL. 305
works through one channel only, that of comradery in research. We
are Spudon Xynones — fellow pilgrims in a joyous land — full of
glorious scenes, broad outlooks and repaying experiences. But the
way we travel is beset with many difficulties both within and without.
There are many temptations to turn aside from the main quest, from
the large joys to the immediate successes, and the number of those who
to the end remain Xynones is far less than the number who first strike
out on the trail. These temptations are internal for the most part.
The response to them depends on the man, not on anything outside of
him. They are the intrinsic factors in his scientific evolution. But
there are also extrinsic factors which undermine zeal and discourage
enthusiasm. These extrinsic factors are sometimes potent, though
relatively few, while the influence of the intrinsic factors decimates
our band; wherefore we conclude that the individual in science is more
than the environment. Men of research are born more often than
made, but those well born may be spoiled or half-spoiled in the making.
To prevent this, to keep the ranks firm, it is well for us to stand
together, as comrades in zeal, and when necessary, as to-night, we
may whistle bravely to keep up our courage.
And in standing together, it is well for men interested in one line
of research not to look down on those whose taste or capacity favors
some other. So long as it is real, research is the real thing, and one
line may come as near the heart of things as another. Whence it is
not good for the experimenter to look down on the systematist, the
student of exact sciences on the mathematics of the imagination, the
physicist on the psychologist, the chemist on the engineer, the engineer
on the economist, the biologist who thinks in terms of chemistry only
on the biologist who finds vital force a convenient temporary concep-
tion while searching for underlying causes, or any class on any other
class, each being a loyal follower of the clue which has come into his
hands. To be sure, not all is science which takes that name. Sci-
ence falsely so called is known to all of us as well as to the theologian.
Of course, the name of science, even the name of research, is bor-
rowed for purposes utterly at variance with science. Trade-marks
which have a value are always imitated. With all that in the long run,
there comes to be a science of non-science when even christian
science and psychical research will ultimately find a place in the
pigeon-holes of investigation.
In general, scientific research may be divided into four or five great
classes.
Experiment. — The purpose of experiment is to test laws, to find
out how things work. We arrange the conditions, nature does the
rest, and our part of the process is to find out what the rest is. In
the old days experiment was easy — to let fall an apple, to rub the hair
of a cat, to bring a nail near a magnet. Nature would take advantage
VOL. LXIV. — 20.
