LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS. 27
vital force/ an influence (sometimes regarded as external) which
modifies the behavior of matter and energy without affecting their
quantity. But as we can not exclude the probability of similar direct-
ing and modifying influences in the inorganic world, it is best pro-
visionally to regard the causes of life as present alike in living and not-
living substances — conspicuous in living substance because coordinated,
but hardly observed in not-living substance, owing to incoordination.
If a simile be needed, it may be found in the behavior of light: for
certain properties of light, though ever present, become evident only
when coordinated by polarization; and polarization, be it noted, is a
purely physical action.
While every element present in living substance may assist in the
work, the energy-traffic is carried on chiefly amongst the four elements,
nitrogen, oxygen, carbon and hydrogen. Nitrogen is remarkable for
the instability of its chemical compounds — the readiness with which
they change their composition — and there is little doubt that on this
property depends the extreme sensitiveness of living substance. Car-
bon and hydrogen have the property of combining together to build up
complex compounds, with great storage of potential energy; whereas
the same compounds during their oxidation expend their energy in the
form of mechanical work, heat, etc. The energy traffic consists of two
alternating phases : (1) the accumulation of energy, or anabolic phase,
which is always coincident with deoxidation and the formation of com-
plex chemical compounds: and (2) the dispersion of energy, or *cata-
bolic phase, coincident with oxidation of the complex substances,
which are thereby converted into simpler substances, as carbonic acid
and water. In these processes nitrogen is intimately concerned: it is
believed to act as the carrier, taking up each element or group of ele-
ments and passing it on in a new state of combination.
All the energy of life is derived ultimately from the sun. A little
of this comes indirectly through lightning, which in passing through
the air forms ammonia and oxides of nitrogen. These, being carried
by rain into the ground, are the constant source of nitrogen for vege-
table, and indirectly for animal life. A much larger quantity of energy
is well known to be taken direct from the sunshine by plants and used
in their anabolic processes. This energy is appropriated by animals in
their food ; and whether in the vegetable or in the animal, it assists in
many alternations of anabolism and catabolism before it is completely
dispersed.
The range of temperature suited to terrestrial life is comparatively
narrow. All vital actions are suspended temporarily, some perma-
nently, if subjected to a temperature near the freezing point; while
the highest that most organisms can bear lies somewhere between 35°
and 45° Centigrade (95° and 113° Fahrenheit). Only the spores of
certain bacteria can survive boiling. It is therefore probable that if
