COMRADES IN ZEAL. 307
nature in a static way, the record of experiments of nature herself,
so long in trying, that we do not recognize her movement at all.
^Vllerefo^e descriptive science seems less exhilarating than experi-
mental science. It has less movement to it; for nature does not seem
to move, and we need not as we watch her; yet static knowledge lies
at the foundation of most discoveries in dynamic nature. We must
know the plants and animals of any given region and know them
exactly before we can study migrations and movements, the origin of
faunas, the distribution of forms. The movements in geologic time
are best traced by the shells which the rocks carry with them, and these
shells admit of no experiment, have no apparent dynamic significance.
Descriptive anatomy precedes physiology and interprets it; embryology
interprets anatomy, but to a like degree anatomy interprets embryology.
Ecology, the study of life histories, interprets all these and is explained
by them. According to Lubbock, the knowledge of the habits of ani-
mals, their reaction to stimuli, external and internal, is the final end
of zoological science.
It has been a fashion of the fin du siecle sort, a fad of the last end
of the last century, for workers in other lines to look down on sys-
tematic zoology and systematic botany. They would know the general
structure and relations of animals and plants in a great large way,
but were infinitely bored by the details, and especially by those of the
larger forms, those which can not be sliced and imbedded in Canada
balsam. This feeling is unworthy of large-minded men. As I said
just now, it is not good form in science for one set of workers to look
down on another. The varied details of systematic science embody
the fanaticism for veracity of the men who have worked them out.
It is, after all, the man who does the minute work who advances
science. Anybody can devise new groupings of large lines of facts.
The man who found out the least true detail about the heart of the
lancelet, even the man who found a new kind of lancelet in the sands
of the Bahamas, contributed more to science than the men who gave
new names to the class of lancelets in their new schemes of vertebrate
classification. As if Leptoeardii were not good enough, we have these
little creatures called Acrania, Pharyngobranchii, Cephalochorda or
Cirrostomi. We all know that the lancelet is headless, that it has
gill slits around the throat, a nerve cord where its head ought to be,
and cirri about its mouth, but we knew that when they were Leptoeardii
or merely lancelets, and these new names merely cumber the books
without adding at all to our knowledge.
Linnseus once said, vsdth the fine sarcasm of the ancients: Tyro
novit classes, magister fit species. Any beginner can define classes
of plants. It takes a master to work out the species. Any beginner
can see things in the large ; all the world does that ; but only the master
can get down to details. He can shut his eyes to all outside, and can
