COMRADES IN ZEAL. 3,
under diverse environment. Only Darwin could show with the demon-
stration of ten thousand instances that this condition was naturally
inevitable, that the origin of species was written in the very nature of
things set in the creation of life.
As causal interpretation in weak hands degenerates into specula-
tion, so are all other forms of research subject to deterioration.
Experimenters are peculiarly subject to myopia, shortsightedness, nar-
rowness, carelessness as to truth obtained in other ways, and indiffer-
ence to the outlooks a broader horizon obtains. With all the intensive
accuracy of the science of Germany, we have often to look to other
countries, notably to England, for the broader view which sets each
fact in place.
Systematic or descriptive work often finds its end in pedantry, the
accumulation or the ostentation of meaningless knowledge, or in the
forming of useless names and the gathering of pointless statistics. The
work of setting in order often slides downward through easy stages of
copying, compiling and dictionary work, work designed to hold the
eel of science by the tail, but which sometimes retains only the slime
from that vivacious fish. Ecology too easily falls into sentimental
personification of living organisms, not the study of Nature, but the
cultivation of our own emotions regarding her. Inventive science
degenerates into management of properties and science is lost in the
search for salaries for holding down a job. For in engineering there
is a subtle line, easily passed, which separates the comrade in zeal from
the successful superintendent of a mine or foreman of a machine shop,
just as in pure science there is a narrow line which distinguishes ad-
vance in knowledge from the simple keeping of what is already in our
possession.
We must all rejoice in the steady increase of means for work in
America, the multiplication of libraries, laboratories, museums, instru-
ments of precision and facilities for publication, made ready to our
hand. These will increase the output in science ; they will improve its
quality; but they will have little effect on the actual number of in-
vestigators.
I am forced to believe that investigators can not be made by oppor-
tunity only — merely made better. Not many who would have been
investigators have been deterred by scanty means, by burden of work,
by lack of encouragement. The impulse of the investigator, as his
reward, must be within himself. His results may be incomplete, his
product scanty, his outlook narrow, but he will not fail to bring forth
after his own kind. A stalk of corn in stony soil may yield but little
grain, but what there is will still be corn. You can not starve it down
to oats nor feed it till it becomes a banana. I have no faith in the
men who might have been productive investigators if they only had a
