312 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
chance. The world is the opportunity of the man who can seize it.
All the true naturalist demands is to be born into it.
In like fashion, splendid resources count for nothing till they fall
into the right hands. The existence of a microscope or microtome is
no guarantee that some one will use it. The presence of a collection is
no sign that some one will study it. It requires courage and zeal to
lay hold of anything, and these qualities do not always dwell in kings
houses. Generous facilities can not take the place of men, and the
best working rooms in the world will not raise mediocrity into genius.
Haeckel once said bitterly that the output of laboratories in biology
was always in inverse ratio to the completeness of their appointments.
For there are always influences at work, extrinsic and intrinsic
forces, as I said just now, which oppose the spirit of investigation.
Among these I class all which tend to make investigation perfunctory
and all those which crown achievement with worldly reward. I have
known men in European museums to say deliberately: It is time to
put out another paper. What is the easiest thing I can do? Mean-
while searching for the line of work which will yield the largest num-
ber of pages for the amount of energy put forth. Something of this
sort results from the pressure of university publication committees.
So many pages of original research demanded for each month in the
calendar. Better not print at all than to make it a stated function.
On the whole, I place the fellowship system as a discouragement to
research. The real comrade in zealous learning is a man who can take
care of himself. To get his own training where he can do it best, in
his own way, at his own cost, is one of the best parts of his scientific
training. The free lunch at the university tempts those who are
hungry, the pedant, the place-seeker, the second-hand scholar — to the
prejudice of the investigator. The kind of man who best passes ex-
aminations is not the original, the forceful, the creative scholar. He
has something better than examinations to think about. It is not to
the credit of the American university system that the number of doc-
tors of philosophy — to borrow a suggestion from Dr. Jacques Loeb —
each year corresponds almost exactly to the number of young men hired
to study in the particular institution. So many fellowships, so many
doctors of philosophy. Very few of these stall-fed scholars have the
courage or the conscience to do independent work after the outside
stimulus is withdrawn.
Within the walls of the academy the place of the investigator is not
sure. Temptations assail him here from within and from without.
One of the meanest is the impulse to acquire a reputation cheaply, to
conduct his researches under the lime light, making great discoveries
while the printer waits. Yet our newspapers are full of grave discus-
sions of* the outgivings of these lackeys of science. Almost equally
cheap is the temptation to publication for publications sake, to have
