COMRADES IN ZEAL. 3^5
whether they affect great men or small. He knows no tradition large
enough to check the movement of science. Among the Scandinavians
and the Dutch, in nations too small to obscure the democracy of learn-
ing, we find much the same feeling. In France, in Germany, even in
England, the tradition of great names, the customs of great museums,
largely outweigh the testimony of the things themselves. It has taken
a long time to bring about in these countries the application of the
simple and necessary law of priority in nomenclature. To this law
all naturalists have assented in theory, but with the reserve of excep-
tions in favor of great men or the traditions of great museums. The
willingness to adopt new views, to utilize new classifications, to see
things in new lights, is, broadly speaking, in proportion to the spirit
cf democracy by which a worker is surrounded. A perfect democracy
means a perfect perspective — each man, each idea, each theory stand-
ing for what it is, with all the covering of make-believe thrown off.
For the zealous search in which we meet as comrades is the worship
of the greatest God known to religion, the God of the things as they are.
And here come the reasons why even the prophets of civilization
should cultivate the virtue of modesty. The universe, of which we
have explored a few points, is so gigantic in space, so monstrous in
duration, that it baffles all our powers of collective thought to conceive
of its existence. Time is as long as space is wide. We can not
picture the universe as limitless in space or in time, nor can we think
of it as having bounds in distance or in duration. And with all its
grandeur, it is so finely put together, so delicately adjusted, so eternally
interdependent, that the smallest of all its parts is as large as the
largest, that if another atom could be brought in from beyond the
range of space and added to its infinite side, even if this were done
only a moment after time should cease to be, the whole mass of eternity
might be thrown from its bearings, its adjustment destroyed and the
creation of aeons of evolution flung back into primitive chaos. Or
again, may be not this, but something else might happen, for likely
enough matter is nothing substantial at all, but each molecule merely
the vortex of a whirling current of force. Wherefore, bearing on our
scientific shoulders the vastness of a universe whose elements are un-
knowable, unthinkable, solid and substantial, vast and unchanging,
we may well, to-night, as Thackeray once said on a similar occasion,
say, We may well think small beer of ourselves and pass around the
bottle.
