28 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the general temperature of the earths surface rose or fell 40° (a small
amount relatively), the whole course of life would be changed, even per-
chance to extinction. The record of the fossiliferous rocks shows us
that for countless millions of years a large portion of the earths sur-
face has had a temperature much the same as it now has; it is even
probable that the surface temperature never greatly exceeded 40° C,
though the interior was, and is, very hot.
Water plays an indispensable part in both the environment and
the internal chemistry of life. It forms more than half the weight of
most living things; and all the actively living parts of animals and
plants (e. g., the nuclei and protoplasm of cells) consist of water hold-
ing the other ingredients in solution or suspension.
Every one of the conditions above mentioned (supply of energy,
particular elements, range of temperature, abundance of water) is
essential to life — i. e., such life as is known to us ; and it is difficult to
avoid the conclusion that this life is really the outcome of the con-
ditions existing on our earth, and that only in worlds with identical
conditions can identical life exist.
It is quite odd how, in spite of the advance of biological science
and the acceptance of the principles of evolution, the notion still pre-
vails that life in other worlds is similar to that of our earth. We
find astronomers searching for the absorption bands of chlorophyll in
the spectrum of Mars; marks on planets are described as probable
vegetation; some worlds are supposed to be uninhabitable because
they have no atmosphere, others because the temperature is too high
for the existence of protoplasm. All this indicates a very contracted
view of the nature of life. Chlorophyll, respiration, vegetable, animal
and protoplasm are earthly phenomena which may exist nowhere else :
their place may be taken in other worlds by other phenomena no less
wonderful. What we know of terrestrial life gives us reason to
think that the same principles which produce life under earthly con-
ditions may produce life of a different type under different conditions ;
e. g., where the temperature is different, and a different set of ele-
ments are available.
It must be freely admitted that we do not know what elements
could take the place of nitrogen, carbon, etc., under conditions differ-
ing from those on our earth. All speculations concerning this question
have been based on misconceptions of the functions of the elements in
life. We may only venture so far as to say that certain elements sug-
gest possibilities of energy traffic by reason of the varied character of
their compounds: such are phosphorus, sulphur, iodine and iron.
Other elements, such as aluminium and silicon, are remarkable for
the monotony of their known chemical actions. . , .
In order that any world may support life comparable with the life
