TEE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 317
The views of Aristarchus on the system of the universe are reported
by Archimedes. The World/ he says, is by the greater part of
astronomers called a sphere whose center is the center of the earth
and whose radius is the distance from the earth to the sun. But
Aristarchus of Samos, in quoting this opinion, refutes it. According
to him, the world is very much greater; he supposes the sun to be
immovable, as also are the stars, and he believes that the earth turns
round the sun as a center, and that the magnitude of the sphere of
the fixed stars, whose center is that of the sun, is such that the cir-
cumference of the circle described by the earth is in proportion to the
distance of the fixed stars as the center of a circle is to its surface.
Copernicus himself did not announce and describe his system with
the magistral completeness and brevity of these few words. It is
clear that we have here not only the view of Aristarchus, but also the
opinion of Archimedes. We must assume that this announcement
was unknown to Copernicus who reports the misty theories of the
Pythagoreans, but makes no mention of Aristarchus in this connection.*
Plato (428-347 B. C.) taught that the earth was the center of
celestial motions and that the planets and stars revolved about it
on eight concentric spheres or circles. He plainly states that the moon
shines by the suns reflected light. Plato was not primarily an as-
tronomer, and in fact held astronomy to be less dignified than the
pure geometry that underlaid celestial motions, but his astronomical
opinions were always of influence, especially in the orient where he
held a high authority. He expressed and enforced the general idea
that the heavenly bodies, being perfect in their essence, must necessarily
revolve in circles, and with uniform, not variable, motion.
Eudoxus of Cnidus (409-356 B. C.) elaborated the ideas of Plato
into a scientific system. By this time the simpler motions of the moon
were well known, and to account for them he found three spheres to
be necessary. One produced its daily motion of rising and setting,
another its monthly motion from west to east, while the third had
to do with its motions north and south of the ecliptic. The sun was
likewise provided with three spheres, and each of the planets had four
(since the planets sometimes appear to retrograde from east to west,
though their usual progress is from west to east). The system of
Eudoxus thus required twenty-seven spheres; one for the fixed stars,
twenty for the planets, six for the sun and moon. It is not probable
that Eudoxus and his school regarded these spheres as material
crystal shells, but rather as geometrical and abstract vehicles for the
resolution of observed mechanical movements into intelligible parts.
But the notion of material crystal spheres perpetually recurs in Greek
astronomy after his day, and was universally held by the vulgar.
* Copernicus had access to certain large collections of books and the cata-
logues of these collections exist to-day. I have had them searched and the
works of Archimedes are not there mentioned.
