THE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 319
in one lecture-room at the University of Padua in 1592, Galileo was
teaching the Euclids Elements in another. It is easier to compre-
hend how students flocked to listen when a few years later Galileo
began his lectures upon astronomy, although by the conditions of his
professorship he was only permitted to expound the astronomy of
Sacro Bosco.
Aristotle taught that the earth was spherical and gave reasons, good
and bad, for his belief. The distance of the sun was fixed by a most
ingenious method invented by Aristarchus of Samos (270 B. C.) who
concluded that the sun was about 19 times more distant than the moon
(it is, in fact, 390 times more distant). Hipparchus determined the
moons distance for himself* and took the sun to be 19 times more
distant. He did not leave the earth in the central point of the suns
orbit, but shifted that center towards the sixth degree of Gemini by
one twenty-fourth of the radius so as to account for observed inequali-
ties in the annual motion. Ptolemy adopted this result without ques-
tion, and it was accepted by astronomers for twelve centuries. It was
not until the time of Kepler that it was proved that the sun must be
at least fifty times as far away as the moon. This was one of the con-
sequences of Tychos accurate observations.
The Chaldeans and Egyptians held the earth to be a flat disc
canopied by the sky — the firmament — and this was the view of the
Hebrews. A distinctly Christian theory of the figure of the earth and
heavens, drawn from scripture, was formulated by the Egyptian monk
and traveler Cosmas Indicopleustes. According to this theory, the
earth was a flat parallelogram surrounded by the four seas. We say,
therefore, with Isaiah, that the heaven embracing the universe is a
vault; with Job, that it is joined to the earth; and with Moses, that
the length of the earth is greater than its breadth. This explanation
of appearances was very generally accepted as orthodox, and was held
by the common people long after the learned had been convinced of the
earths sphericity by the arguments of Ptolemy and Aristotle. Isidore
of Seville in the seventh century, and the Venerable Bede in the
eighth, declared for the opinion of Aristotle; Dante in the thirteenth
century supported it, and Columbus proved it in the fifteenth. In the
sixteenth, Magellans voyage of circumnavigation settled the vexed
question once and for all.
There is in the library of the University of Cambridge, so Dr.
Whewell reports, a French poem of the time of Edward the Second
(1307-27) illustrated with drawings that show men standing upright
on all parts of a spherical earth. By way of illustrating the tendency
* He fixed the greatest distance of the moon at 78, the least at 67, semi-
diameters of the earth. The mean distance is, in fact, 60. The distance of the
sun, according to Hipparchus, was 1,300 semi-diameters. It is really about
23,000.
