320 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of heavy bodies towards the earths center other men are dropping
balls into holes bored entirely through the globe and these balls are
falling to the earths midmost point —
That point to which from every part is dragged all heavy substance,
as Virgil explains to Dante in the thirty-fourth canto of the Inferno.
The cosmogony of Dante in the Divina Commedia was accepted for
centuries by Eoman Catholics, as Miltons in the Paradise Lost has
been adopted by protestants. For Dante the globe of the earth was
the center of the world. It was surrounded by nine transparent
spheres moved by angels. There was a crystal sphere for the moon,
and others for Mercury, Venus, the sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn and
the fixed stars, and beyond them the Prinium Mobile — nine in all.
Beyond the outer sphere was the Empyrean — here God sate. Below
the earth is hell and here its god — Lucifer — reigned over bad angels.
All the discord in the world came from them, even its storms, hail
and lightning. The spheres of Eudoxus served as a base to Dantes
system, which was adapted, with a poets license, to a poets use.*
In the De Ccelo, Aristotle lays down certain fundamental principles :
The things of which the world is made are all solid bodies, and all
have, therefore, three dimensions. The simple elements of nature
must also have simple motions. So, indeed, fire and air have their
natural motions upwards, water and earth, downwards, both in straight
lines. But besides these motions there is also a circular motion, not
natural to these elements, although it is a much more complete motion
than the rectilinear. For the circle is, in itself, a complete line, which
a straight line is not: There must, therefore, be certain things to
which complete circular motion is natural: It follows that there
must be a certain sort of bodies very dilferent from the four elementary
bodies, bodies that are more godlike, that must therefore stand above
them: This finer essence was later named by the commentators
*Quinta Essentia — our quintessence. The heavenly bodies are formed
of this; they are spheres endowed with life and activity.
The question of the revolution of the earth in an orbit round the
sun is discussed by Aristotle, and he rejects the idea for the reason
that such a motion would necessarily produce a corresponding altera-
tion in the place of each and every fixed star. The objection was per-
fectly valid. If the stars were only a little farther from us than
Saturn, as Aristotle believed, a motion of the earth in an orbit would
cause each star to move in an apparent parallactic orbit, a miniature
copy of that of the earth. No such alteration of place was observable.
Hence, said he, the earth did not move. Even the nearest stars are,
* The upper regions of Paradise contained the narrow-minded monks of the
middle age as well as the great saints. The wisest and most virtuous heathens,
like Virgil, were in Limho — which, it has been remarked, contained the best
society. Outcasts from all religionsj and sinners of all sorts, were in Hell.
