TEE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 321
we now know, twenty tho^^sand times as far from us as Saturn, and
it is this fact — which was not finally established till 1837 — that ex-
plains why the miniature apparent orbits of the stars were not seen-
by the Greeks or by their successors. They were too minute to be
discoverable.
All the important writings of Hipparchus, who lived in the second
century B. C, are lost, and the doctrines of this most truth-loving and
labor-loving man are known to us only through Ptolemy, his expositor
and ardent admirer. Hipparchus was an indefatigable observer, a
mathematician of tact and insight, an astronomer of original and
profound genius. By his own observations, made at Rhodes (188-127
B. C), he fixed the positions (the celestial longitudes and latitudes)
of the principal fixed stars. Comparing their present places with
their past positions as determined by Timocharis and Aristillus, he
discovered that backward motion of the equinoctial points which causes
the epoch of the suns passage through the equinox to recur earlier
and earlier each year — the precession of the equinoxes — and fixed its
probable annual amount. Comparing his own determinations of the
date of the vernal equinoctial passage of the sun with those of
Aristarchus, he determined the length of the year with accuracy.* It
is by systematic comparisons of the sort that many of his discoveries
were made.
It is very noteworthy that he gives not only his results, but like-
wise an estimate of their probable errors. His observations of the
time of the suns arriving at a solstice might be erroneous, he says,
by about three fourths of a day; at an equinox by about one fourth.
Comparisons made in this systematic fashion, and estimates of error
of this sort, we are apt to think of as modern. Certainly they are
not characteristic of observational astronomy till the eighteenth cen-
tury, two thousand years after Hipparchus showed the way. Some
of his most important researches related to measures of time. What
was the length of the year ? Were all years of the same length ? His
observations showed him no difference between one year and another.
It is interesting to note how he formulates his conclusions. He does
not say that all years are, without doubt, of one and the same length;
he asserts simply that the differences, if any, must be very small, so
small that his observations are not delicate enough to detect them.
In the year 134 B. C. a new star suddenly appeared in Scorpio, and
Hipparchus began the formation of a catalogue of stars visible to him.
With such a conspectus of the present state of the sky no new appear-
ances could subsequently occur without detection. His catalogue gave
the position and magnitude (brightness) of 1,080 stars for the epoch
128 B. C, and arranged them in the constellation figures that have
* Hipparchus fixed the length of the tropical year at 365 days 5 hours 55
minutes. Its true length is 365 days 5 hours 48 minutes 45.51 seconds (1900).
VOL. LXIV.— 21.
