32 2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
come down to us only slightly changed.* Hipparchus catalogue
stood unique for a thousand years.
An instance of his practical tact as an observer may be quoted. If
a straight ruler be held up against the starry sky there will, now and
again, be instances where its edge passes through three stars at the
same time. Many such cases are recorded by Hipparchus. No one
of the three stars can change its situation without detection, A sim-
ple observation of the same sort at any subsequent time will at once
exhibit any change that may have taken place in the interval between
the two observations.
The work of Hipparchus as a theoretical astronomer is as remarkable
as his observing skill. The positions of the heavenly bodies are
calculated by solving triangles, both plane and spherical. The doctrine
of such solutions — trigonometry — was perhaps invented by him; at
all events it was greatly developed and improved. Observations give
the celestial longitudes and latitudes of planets at the instant of ob-
servation. Their positions at past epochs, a month or a year ago, are
given by preceding observations of the same sort. Where will Jupiter
or Saturn be found in the future — a month or a year hence? It is
necessary to invent a geometry of planetary motion that will account
for all past and future motions; and this problem was elaborately
developed by Hipparchus. We must recollect that his vast activity
was exercised under conditions of the most discouraging kind. His
best instruments were but rude; all sightings were made with the
eye unaided by telescopes; he had only clepsydras (sand or water-
clocks) to measure intervals of time; the Greek system of arithmetic
in which his calculations were made was cumbrous in the extreme.
What he accomplished is little less than astounding.
From his theory of Epicycles Hipparchus was able to construct his
tables of the sun and moon. The tables gave the particulars of the
motion of these bodies and enabled predictions to be made of coming
solar and lunar eclipses. It was sufficient for the purposes of the time
to assert that an eclipse would occur on a certain day, about a certain
hour of the morning or afternoon, and the tables were adequate to such
predictions. His theory was sufficient ; it fulfilled all the tests applied
to it. The motion of the moon was more complex than that of the
sun, but it, too, was reduced to a sufficient order and important dis-
coveries made. The elements of the motions of these bodies were not
derived, as we to-day derive them, from continuous observations, but
rather from observations made at certain critical times. For the
sun the observations were made at the equinoxes and solstices. Six
eclipses of the moon sufficed to give him the elements of the lunar
orbit and the rate at which they were changing.
* Our constellation figures are those designed by Albrecht Diirer on the
star maps of StoeflBer and Heinfogel from the descriptions of Ptolemy.
