TEE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 323
His theory of the planets was not so complete, for there was no
sufficient body of ancient observations to be compared with those which
he himself accrnnulated with so much diligence. Considering the
data at his disposition and the use made of them, the work of Hip-
parchus is of the first order. Astronomers of all ages are agreed that
he was one of the most extraordinary men of antiquity; the very
greatest in the sciences that require a combination of observation with
geometry (Delambre).
His expositor, Ptolemy of Alexandria, was primarily a geometer
and made few original observations. The Almagest is, in essence, a
restatement of the theories of Hipparchus with additions, not all of
which are improvements. It begins by laying down certain postulates :
The earth is spherical and a mere point in respect of the heavens; its
circumference is 180,000 stadia; the heavens are likewise spherical and
revolve about the earth, which is in the center and has no motion. So
far he is in agreement with Aristotle. Where he differs, astronomers
who succeeded him followed the Almagest while philosophers were more:
apt to take Aristotle as authority.
Ptolemys theory of the moons motion led him to important dis-
coveries, which need not be described here. It is mentioned because
it also contained a contradiction of the precise sort that is best suited
to lead to further discoveries, and because this contradiction was passed
over and entirely neglected by him and by his successors for centuries..
His theory gave the position of the moon with satisfactory accuracy.
It was, in so far, presumably true. It assumed that at times the
moon was twice as far from the earth as at others. If this were true
the moons apparent diameter should sometimes have been twice as
great as at other times. But no such variation was observed. The
necessary conclusion : Hence the theory can not possibly be true — was
not drawn by Ptolemy. The instance is significant; it marks a
radical difference between the modern attitude and that of the ancients
in matters of physical science. Ptolemy and his successors really
held two antagonistic theories of the moons motion and distance at
the same time. Each theory satisfied the conditions of part of the
problem. They did not seek for a unique theory. This was not done
until the time of Kepler, whose whole life was spent in searching for
the physical causes of observed phenomena, and who was not content
with mere analytic devices by which the phenomena could be pre-
dicted. He sought for these, but he looked deeper and further.
All but a few of the greatest of the ancients regarded a physical
problem in the light of a riddle to which an answer was required. Any
plausible answer would do. The fixed belief that there was one
answer and could be only one did not arise till quite modern times.
Modern science is a search for such unique solutions. Most of ancient
science was a search for an hypothesis to account for a set of observed
facts.
