324 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
A page from Ptolemys note-book may be transcribed. He was
seeking the position of the bright star Begulus: *In the second year
of Antoninus, the ninth day of Pharmauthi, the sun being near set-
ting, the last division of Taurus being on the meridian (that is 5I/2
equinoctial hours after noon) the moon was in three degrees of Pisces
■by her distance from the sun (which was 92° 8) ; and half an hour
rafter, the sun having set, and the quarter of Gemini on the meridian,
Megulu^ appeared, by the other circle of the astrolabe, 57% degrees
fto the eastward of the moon in longitude. The position of the sun
was known from the day of the year by the solar tables; the moon, at
53^ hours, was 92° 8 east of the sun; the moons motion in half an
hour was also known from the tables, and hence her position at 6 hours
was determined; Begulus was at that time 571/^ degrees east of the
moon, and its place was thus fixed with respect to the sun. A modern
note-book would give the year and day, and would record that Begulus
crossed the meridian at a certain hour, minute, second and decimal of
a second by the clock. The correction of the clock would be given
as so many seconds and hundredths of a second. The sum of the
3lock-time and the correction is the position of the star. In Ptolemy s
case it was known to half a degree (two minutes of time). A modern
observation gives it with an error not above one tenth of a second;
that is with an accuracy about 1,200 times greater.
Ptolemys Almagest is, in essence, modern in respect of the fact
that its theories are designed to give quantitative results and are pre-
sented as general bases for special calculations. With a certain set
of observations as data the desired results could be worked out in
numbers. Tables for calculating future positions of the planets were
also given and in Ptolemys time the actual positions were fairly well
represented by the predictions. As time went on, more accurate ob-
servations with better instruments, were made. The observed places
of the planets did not agree with the predictions. The ingenuity of
his disciples in the middle ages was taxed to improve the theory, and
the tables of Ptolemy were supplanted in turn by the Hakemite tables
of Ibn Yunus (about A. D. 1000), the Toledan tables of Arzachel
(1080), the Alphonsine tables of Alphonso the Wise (1252) and others.
Finally, in the first half of the sixteenth century it became evident
that Ptolemys theory was itself gravely at fault. It was the fortune
of Copernicus to open a new way to scientific thought — to lay down a
new theory of the world.
The details of the long history thus sketched out are only interesting
to astronomers.* We are here concerned with the main outlines alone.
* They are given in clear form in various encyclopedias and other books
of reference. Perhaps Berrys Short History of Astronomy (1899) will best
serve the purpose of the general reader. Gyldens Die Grundlehren der As-
tronomie (1877) develops the mathematical bases of ancient astronomy in an
elementary form. Delambres Histoire de V Astronomie is still the best general
history.
