THE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 325
The Arabian school of astronomers added nothing to the theory
of Ptolemy. They transmitted the text of the Almagest to the west
accompanied by intelligent comment and almost without criticism
except in the cases of Alpetragins and Geber. The Arab observations
were very numerous, and resulted in fixing new and much more
accurate values of the constant of precession, the length of the year,
the obliquity of the ecliptic, the eccentricity of the suns orbit and
the motion of its apogee. Their arithmetic was the clumsy sexagesimal
arithmetic of the Greeks, until in the eleventh century the Hindu
decimal system began to make its way in Egypt, Spain and Europe.
Geometry is not indebted to the Arabs for any marked advances. On
the other hand, trigonometry was greatly improved.
As observers the astronomers of the Arab school had great merit.
They grasped the need for continuous observations, whereas the
Greeks in general had contented themselves with making observations
at certain critical times only — at the solstices and equinoxes, for in-
stance. The Arabs were the first to assign the exact time at which
any phenomenon occurred — a fundamental datum. They measured
the altitude of the sun at the beginning and ending of solar eclipses,
for example, in order that the time might be known. The calcula-
tion of a spherical triangle enabled the instants of beginning and
ending to be accurately assigned. The Greeks never employed this
device and the times of phenomena recorded by them are seldom known
with any accuracy. Indeed Ptolemy has no formula by which to
calculate the time when the suns altitude is given, and it is note-
worthy that the Arab device was not known in Europe until 1457,
when Purbach used it for the first time. Yet it was employed at
Bagdad at the solar eclipse of A. D. 829, six hundred 3^ears earlier.
Even the times of phenomena recorded by Tycho Brahe in 1600 are
seldom known so close as a quarter of an hour. Short intervals of
time were measured by the Arabs by counting the beats of pendulums.
A few of the greatest Arabians are named in what follows.
Albategnius was an Arab prince of Syria who flourished at the end of
the ninth century of our era. His observations were made at Aracte
(Eachah) in Mesopotamia and at Antioch, between the years 878 and
918. After studying the Syntaxis of Ptolemy he set himself to cor-
rect the errors of its catalogue of stars by observations of his own,
made with apparatus fashioned after Ptolemys descriptions. It ap-
pears that some of his instruments could be read to single minutes (1)
and were divided possibly to 2 (or it may be to 6). He detected the
change of position of the suns apogee, determined the obliquity of
the ecliptic, the length of the year, the precession-constant (54),
observed and calculated solar and lunar eclipses and computed new
tables of the planetary motions, although he did not seek to improve
Ptolemys planetary theory. He was original and inventive as an
