LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS. 29
that we know, the following conditions, among others, are necessary,
namely, (1) A supply of radiant energy which is intermittent or
variable, (2) one or more elements which (like nitrogen) are very
sensitive to changes of energy, and (3) one or more elements which
(like carbon and hydrogen) are capable of alternately accumulating
and dispersing energy by means of opposite chemical changes.
Since popular ideas as to the physical conditions of other worlds
are generally hazy and often far from correct, it may not be amiss
to recount such particulars as astronomical research has revealed in
the members of the solar system.
In looking for a world where the conditions are most like our
own, we naturally turn first to Venus. Her size and gravitation are
nearly the same as those of the earth, and her atmosphere may there-
fore be expected to have a similar density and to hold approximately
the same gases. As she is nearer the sun, the general temperature
would be considerably higher, and the equatorial region might be
too hot for our life; but there might nevertheless be a suitable tem-
perature nearer the poles. But our speculations are damped by a
suspicion, strong but not fully confirmed, that Venus has no day and
night, but always keeps the same side toward the sun. If this is
really the case, then the sunny side must be always burning hot and
quite dry, while the opposite side must be always encased in ice — nay
more, in a mixture of ice and solidified atmospheric gases. The
life of such a world must be very different from any that we know.
After Venus, Mars is the planet whose conditions seem most to re-
semble those of our world. But there are far greater differences than
are generally supposed. Mars is so small that he can not provide much
heat from within, and so far from the sun that he receives com-
paratively little heat from without. His gravitation is so slight that
the atmosphere is rare and nearly cloudless, and therefore heat must
be readily lost by radiation. Thus on theoretical grounds Mars should
be intensely cold: in fact his surface should be constantly in the
condition of the highest mountain-tops of our world, only receiving
less heat than they do from the sun. At such low temperature and
pressure, water could never exist in the liquid form, though it might be
solid or gaseous. But water is very possibly absent from Mars. Dr.
Johnstone Stoney has calculated, by application of the dynamic theory
of gases, that any water vapor introduced into the atmosphere of that
•planet would escape into space, the gravitation being there insufficient to
retain it. Professor G. H. Bryan, calculating from slightly different
data, questions Dr. Stoney s conclusions; but at all events Marss
gravitation is very near the dividing line between the ability and in-
ability to retain water. If water is absent from Mars, then the polar
caps and other seeming evidence of its presence must be due to some
other fluid or gas, having heavier molecules and lower freezing and
