THE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 327
30° (the true value is 30° 2). Like all the Arabs he adopted the
theories of the Almagest without change;* but his observations were
materially better than Ptolemys and his numerical results were,
consequently, much more accurate. What is said of Ibn Yunus is, in
general, true of the whole school of Arab and Moorish astronomers.
Ibn Yunus was acquainted with the Indian numerals 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and used them occasionally in place of the climisy Greek
system, and he also introduced tangents and secants into trigonometry,
as well as auxiliary angles (which latter were not used in Europe till
the eighteenth century), but he continued to calculate triangles by
formulae involving sines only. Abul-Wafa of Bagdad (940-948) gave
the formulae relating to tangents and cotangents, and also to secants
and cosecants, and even calculated tables of tangents; though he also
stopped short of useful applications that were well within his reach.
The science of trigonometry was, however, built up by Arabs, and the
way was prepared for Vieta, who is the founder of the accepted doc-
trine. Abul-Wafa is the discoverer of the third inequality of the
moon — the variation. Observing at a time when the first and second
inequalities (discovered by Hipparchus and Ptolemy) had no effect,
he noticed that the moon was a degree and a quarter from her calcu-
lated place. Hence, he says, I perceived that this inequality
exists independently of the two first. This discovery remained
unknown in Europe for six centuries until Tycho Brahe independently
came to the same result.
Alhazen was an Arabian mathematician and astronomer of the
eleventh century who is noteworthy for his treatment of physical
problems, especially that of refraction. Ptolemy had experimented
on the refraction of glass and of water and had made out the law that
the angle of refraction is a fixed submultiple of the angle of incidence
(r= 1/to -i). This was denied by Alhazen, but the true law was not
discovered till the time of Willebrod Snell in 1621, who found the
relation sine r = 1/m • sine i, where m has a different value for each
different substance. Alhazen s Optics treats of the anatomy of the
eye, and of vision, and has several propositions relating to the physiol-
ogy of seeing, and it remained the standard work until the time of
Eoger Bacon and Vitello (thirteenth century).
The astronomical instruments of the Arabs were greatly superior to
those of the Greeks. The caliphs of Bagdad and of Cairo founded ob-
servatories and supplied them generously. The grandson of Jhenghiz-
Khan maintained a splendid establishment of the sort at Meraga on
* It is to be noted, however, that the theories of Ptolemy, as understood
by the Arabs, made some of the crystal spheres of the planets clash; and that
Ptolemys place for Mercury was consequently changed arbitrarily to allow
room for its motion! This is not a change of theory; but it illustrates how
slavishly the doctrine of spheres was followed by some of its votaries.
