328 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the northwest frontier of Persia under Nasr-ed-Din as chief astronomer.
Here the Ilkhanic tables were prepared. Ulugh-Beg, prince of
Samarkand, a grandson of Tamerlane, founded a great observatory in
1420, on the hill of Kolik, where a hundred observers and calculators
were employed. Albategnius, another Arab prince, possessed ad-
mirable instruments, as we have seen. Astronomy was in favor with
princes and caliphs, and flourished accordingly. We have seen that
some of the instruments of Albategnius read to one minute of arc
(1) and were very likely divided to 2. The observatory of Nisapur,
in Khorassan, had in A. D. 851 a huge armilla reading to 1. In
992 Al Chogandi set up at Bagdad a sextant of sixty feet radius. In
1260 the observatory of Meraga possessed, among many other in-
struments, a mural quadrant of twelve feet radius. Ulugh-Beg had
a quadrant (perhaps a species of sun-dial) that had a radius of 180
feet. Colossal instruments of the sort permitted accurate readings
of angles because the space corresponding to an arc of one minute
was correspondingly large. Until the invention of the telescope
accuracy was only to be attained by the use of large circles, and the
Arabian school anticipated Tycho Brahe in the use of such instru-
ments by several centuries. Some of the Arabian observers employed
free-swinging pendulums to measure short intervals of time; and the
science of gnomonics — the theory of sun-dialing — was extensively de-
veloped by them.
This is the place to describe the system by which Ptolemy explained
the world. It will be sufficient to explain the two main problems
that any system of astronomy was bound to consider, and to leave
details to one side. These two chief problems were: (1) How to
account for the rising and setting of the sun, moon, stars and planets
— how to explain the general diurnal motion of all celestial bodies;
(2) how to explain the motions of the planets among the stars. These
motions are, in general, towards the east — but are varied by occasional
westward motions, and interrupted by periods of no motion at: the
stations. As we have seen, Ptolemy declared the earth to be a
sphere fixed in the center of the heavens. The sphere of the fixed
stars was at an immense distance, so that the earth was a mere point
in respect of the distance of the stars and the stars revolved about
the earth. All the observed phenomena of the rising and setting of
the stars are satisfactorily explained in this way. Ptolemy perfectly
understood that they could also be explained by the hypothesis of a
rotating earth, but he concluded that it was easier to attribute motion
to bodies like the stars which seem to be of the nature of fire, than
to the solid earth. The sun, moon and planets share in the diurnal
motion of the stars. It will be seen that no mechanical conception
of the diurnal motion is attainable in this way without the assump-
tion of crystal spheres. Ptolemy sought an analytic device by which
