THE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 329
calculations of phenomena could be made, not a physical explanation
based on mechanical laws.
The problems relating to the motions of the heavenly bodies are
more complex and must be considered somewhat in detail. It is
necessary to describe the observed phenomena for each body separately,
and to adopt a system which will explain every phenomenon and
appearance in turn.
The Moon. — The facts of observation, familiar to us all, are that
the new moon sets in the west about sunset, and that on every suc-
ceeding night the moon sets at a later hour. It, therefore, moves to
the east among the stars from night to night, which can readily be
verified by observation. If the moon is near the stars of Orion on
one night, it will be found many degrees to the east of them on the
night following. It sets later and later every night throughout the
month. If it is in the same longitude as the stars of Orion on any
one day, it will be again in that longitude about a month (27 days)
later (more exactly, 27^ 7^ 43°^ 11^.5). It has moved through the
whole circuit of the heavens, 360°, in 27 days. Ptolemy explained
the phenomena, as we explain them to-day, by asserting that the moon
revolves in an orbit, about the earth as a center, making a complete
revolution among the stars (from one star back to the same star again)
in 27 days. Its motion among the stars is always forward — always
from west to east.
The Sun. — The observed phenomena with regard to the sun are of
the same nature. If the sun rises at the same time as the bright
star Sirius on a particular day of the year, on the next day it will rise
later than Sirius. It has, therefore, moved a certain distance (about
one degree) eastwardly during that day. On the next following day
it will have moved about two degrees east of Sirius and will rise
correspondingly later; and so on for each succeeding day. After 180
days (six months) the sun will have moved about 180 degrees to the
east of Sirius. Sirius will be visible on the meridian at midnight,
(when the sun is 180° away from the meridian). At the end of 365
days (more exactly, 365.2564 days) the sun will have moved eastward
through 360° and will again rise at the same moment as Sirius. The
sun, then, appears to move eastwardly among the stars (from one star
back to the same star again) once in 36514 days. At different times
of the year it is among different groups of stars, and it is for this
reason, therefore, that we see different groups of stars at different
seasons of the year. Orion is visible in the winter skies, Scorpio in
the summer, because Orion and Scorpio are 180 degrees apart in
longitude. Ptolemys explanation of all these phenomena is that
the sun moves about the earth in a circular orbit at such a rate as to
make a complete revolution in 3651,4 days. The explanation of
Copernicus is that the earth revolves about the sun in the same period.
