330 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
It is to be noted that either of these explanations will completely ac-
count for all the observed phenomena.
New moon occurs when the earth, moon and sun are in a straight line. At
sunset the new moon is seen in the west. After 27 days the moon has made
one circuit among the stars, moving from west to east. But in those 27 days
the sun has likewise moved eastwardly, about 27 degrees. The moon, then, has
to make one circuit and a little more in order to be again in the line joining the
earth and sun, in order to be again new. The time from one new moon to the
next — the lunar month — is about 29^2 days (more exactly 29d 12h 55m 2s.9)
for this reason. Just as there is a difference between the moons sidereal and
synodic period, so there is a corresponding difference between the sidereal and
tropical year, because the equinoctial points are in motion relatively to the stars.
The Superior Planets. — In the system of Ptolemy, Mars, Jupiter
and Saturn were supposed to be further from the earth than the sun —
to be above it — and they were, therefore, called superior planets ; while
Mercury and Venus were called inferior planets. The facts of ob-
servations for one of the superior planets, for Mars, for example, are
as follows. If on any day Mars rises at the same time as Sirius, on
the next day it will rise a little later, and so on. The planet, there-
fore, moves eastwardly among the stars. It continues its motion so
that at the end of 687 days (1.88 years) the planet again rises at the
same time as Sirius. It has therefore made a complete circuit of the
sky (from one star back to the same star again) in a little less than
two years. Its orbit was supposed by Ptolemy to be a circle (the
deferent) about the earth like the suns orbit. In like manner Jupiter
makes a revolution in 4,333 days (11.86 years), and Saturn in 10,759
days (29.46 years). Such are the general motions of the three su-
perior planets; but there are irregularities in their motions that must
be accounted for.
For example, the actual motion of the planet Jupiter among the
stars for the year 1897 is as follows: Beginning on October 28, 1897,
the planets motion is eastwards until January 22, 1898; here it turns
and moves westwards until May 28; here, again, it turns and moves
eastwards and its direct motion continues for the rest of its period of
nearly twelve years. Ptolemy accounted for the irregularities of mo-
tion just described by supposing that Jupiter revolved in a small
circular orbit — the epicycle — once in 365 days, while, at the same time,
the center of the epicycle moved along the circumference of the def-
erent circle, making a complete revolution in about twelve years.
As time elapses the center of Jupiters epicycle will move onwards
on the deferent while Jupiter will move onwards in its epicycle.
The combination of these two motions will produce a direct motion
of the planet. After Jupiter has moved through a quarter of a cir-
cumference on its epicycle the planet will appear to the observer on
the earth to move in a retrograde direction, because it will move
to the right or left on its epicycle faster than the center of the
