THE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 331
epicycle moves to the left or right. Hence the planet will appear
to an observer to be moving in a retrograde direction — east to west.
The epicyclic motion combined with the motion of the epicycle for-
wards along the deferent will produce first the retrograde and (in
the last quadrant of the epicycle) again the direct motion of the planet
in the sky. By taking the diameter of the epicycle of an appropriate size
all the circumstances of the apparent motion of Jupiter can be repre-
sented. The explanation given by Ptolemy is complete and satisfac-
tory. The general motion of the planet around the sky in twelve years
is explained by the motion along the deferent. Its retrogradations and
stations are explained by the combination of its epicyclic motion with
its general motion. A like explanation serves for the other superior
planets, Mars and Saturn.
The Inferior Planets. — The inferior planets, Mercury and Venus,
appear sometimes east of the sun, sometimes west of it, but are never
very far distant from the sun. We see them at sunset and sunrise
as the morning and evening stars, Hesperus and Phosphorus, always
in the suns vicinity. Ptolemy explained their apparent motions com-
pletely and accurately by supposing that the centers of their epicycles
revolved round the circumferences of their deferents in 36514 days;
and that Mercury revolved round the circumference of its epicycle
in 88 days, Venus round the circumference of its epicycle in 225 days.
The sizes of the epicycles were chosen to correspond to the amount of
each planets greatest elongation from the sun. In the foregoing
summary explanation only the main phenomena are described and ex-
plained. Irregularities in the moons motion were explained by sup-
posing that the earth did not lie at the center of the moons orbit, but
to one side; and other irregularities in the motions of the sun and
planets were explained in a similar way. All motions took place in
circles; the circle was the only perfect curve. But the circles were
eccentrics; the earth did not lie at their centers.
The periods of revolution of the planets were known to Ptolemy,
but he knew little of their distances and nothing of their actual
dimensions. The moon, he knew, shone by reflected light from the
sun and he explained the lunar phases in this way, as is done to-day.
The planets he supposed to shine by their own light, just as the fixed
stars do. Astronomy to-day asserts that the planets, like the moon,
shine by reflected light, and that the fixed stars are suns situated at
immense distances.
Ptolemy solved the problem of the universe by solving the problem
of the motion of each planet separately and by annexing each solu-
tion to the others. He never sought, it seems, for a single law gov-
erning all the cases. But such a law is patent. The radii of the
epicycles of the superior planets are always parallel to the line joining
the earth and the sun. The deferents of Mercury and Venus were
