332 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
really identical with the suns orbit. It would seem that these very
obvious laws could not escape a geometer of the caliber of Ptolemy.
It appears that he never attempted the generalization; nor did his suc-
cessors till the time of Copernicus. Each case was treated separately.
When each was solved the explanation was complete. It required
fourteen hundred years to make a generalization which is, in reality,
simple, almost obvious.
Ptolemys explanation of the system of the world accounted for all
the facts known to him. As time went on, those assiduous observers,
the Arabians, discovered other irregularities in the lunar and planetary
motions unknown to Ptolemy. Every new irregularity required a
new epicycle to explain it and in time the commentators of Ptolemy
had added cycle on cycle, orb on orb until more than sixty spheres
were necessary. The system lost its simplicity as more and more
facts had to be explained and became a tangle of single instances, a
web of particularities. It was never refuted. It broke of its own
weight. The heliocentric hypothesis of Copernicus explained all these
matters so simply, so convincingly, that it was soon adopted by all
competent persons who examined it. The simplicity of a hypothesis
is, of course, no evidence of its truth. Many modern theories are com-
plex to a degree, but this is no proof that they are not true.
A layman seldom understands the attitude of a man of science
towards theories, as they are often half-contemptuously termed.
Theory is popularly used as a synonym of opinion. His theory is
thought of as merely his opinion. When, let us ask, is a science
perfect? It is perfect when the circumstances of a phenomenon that
is to occur in the future can be as accurately predicted now, as they
can subsequently be observed when the actual phenomenon occurs.
The theory of transits of Venus over the suns disc is practically
perfect. We can predict the conditions of the next transit in A. D.
2004 almost as well as the astronomers of that day can observe it.
The theory of Neptunes motion is so well known that the position
of the planet in 1999 can be now predicted almost as accurately as it
can be observed in that year. The theory of the circulation of the sap
in plants is, on the other hand, far from perfect. We understand its
general laws very well, but it is quite impossible to predict the circum-
stances for any particular plant in any particular season. The theories
of hail, of lightning, of auroras and many others are in the same state.
It is obvious that if our own methods and instruments of observa-
tion are greatly improved at any particular epoch the science to which
they belong will cease to be perfect even if it were a perfect science
in the first instance. Tycho Brahe observed the longitudes of the
stars by the naked eye. It is impossible, as we now know, to fix a
longitude by such observations within one minute of arc (!). This
depends on the very constitution of the eye. Wlien the telescope was
