THE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 333
invented and provided with a micrometer it became possible to fix
star-places to within about one second of are (1). Tychos observing
science, perfect in his day — incapable of further improvement — was
no more than a rude approximation to Bradley, Astronomer-Eoyal of
England in 1750. Bradleys tests were at least sixty times more
delicate (l=:60). Examples of this sort show how theories are
held. Certain tests are now available — tests of a certain delicacy.
When phenomena can be predicted beforehand as well as they can be
subsequently observed, science is perfect up to that point. Increase
the delicacy of the tests and a new standard is set up. Wave-motion
was pretty well understood at the end of the nineteenth century until
the X-rays came and refused, at first, to be reflected, refracted or
polarized.
We in our day have learned a patient tolerance of opinion; wait,
these theories that seem so baseless may, perhaps, come to something,
as others have done in the past. To what especial and peculiar merit
do we owe this acquired virtue of tolerant patience? It is owed solely
to the experience of centuries. We have so often seen the impossible
become the plausible, and at last the proved and the practical. Can
we justly expect that our frame of mind — the strict result of centuries
of experience — should have been the attitude of the doctors of the
middle ages? Galileo was a great physicist: would not even he re-
quire time to accept our modern cobweb theory of the constitution of
matter with its ether, molecules, atoms, electrified and non-electrified
half-atoms, ions, dissociation, radio-activity and the like? Centuries
of experience have taught us to hold theories lightly even while we
are using them for present interpretations of phenomena. What
physicist doubts that our present theory of electricity needs a thorough-
going revision? And yet, who fails to use it where it can serve even
a temporary purpose, foreseeing all the while new interpretations in
the future?
The fundamental necessity in studies like the present is to realize
the state of mind of our heroes and of the communities in which they
lived. The only data are the words of the books they have left us.
How to interpret their words m, their sense is the central difficulty ;
it is often most misleading to interpret them in our own. Do unto
others as you would that they should do to you is a golden rule that
has been given in nearly the same words by Aristotle, by Christ and
by Confucius; yet by others Christ meant all men; Aristotle meant
all the free born men of Greece, not their slaves ; and Confucius meant
the virtuous among his countrymen and excluded all wicked men and
all foreign barbarians. If we consider what was meant by the words
citizen, honor, duty, in ancient Eome ; in the later Eoman Empire ;
in Constantinople; in the free towns of Italy; in the England of the
