334 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
middle ages; we shall understand the snares that lie latent in words
which at first glance seem obvious in meaning.
In comparing the view-point of different ages with our own we
continually meet with surprises. The uncritical attitude of the men
of the thirteenth century towards miracles and wonders is little less than
astounding to us. Our thought seems to be ages in advance of theirs.
On the other hand, we often meet with an insight that has what we
call the distinctly modern note. An instance from literature will
illustrate :
A mans character is his fate
is a sentence that one would assign to Taine or to Stendhal in the
nineteenth century, if one did not know it to have been written by
Heracleitus in the fifth century before Christ. In like manner, some
of the scientific processes of Hipparchus, Archimedes and Eoger Bacon
are so modern as to bring a glow of delighted wonder when they
are met with. Their failure to draw certain conclusions that seem
almost obvious to us is equally astonishing. A formal explanation of
the differences and of the resemblances of ancient ages with our own
may be had somewhat as follows. We may suppose that a completely
developed man of our day has educated his sympathies and intelligence
to have outlets in a certain large number of directions — let us say, in
the directions
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, 0, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z.
It is possible, however, that some few of these outlets are absent, or
nearly closed, E and for instance. The men of the eighteenth cen-
tury may be supposed to have had fewer outlets, and those of the thir-
teenth still fewer ; but the intensity and refinement of their sympathies
in certain directions may not have been less but greater than ours.
The feeling of the thirteenth century for religion, and of the sixteenth
for art, for example, were not only different in intensity, but very dif-
ferent in quality from our own. When we make a formal comparison
of our age with that of St. Thomas Aquinas and of jSTewton the table
might stand thus :
A, B, C, D, -, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, - P, Q, R, X, Y, Z. .twentieth century
a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, -,-,-, m, n thirteenth century
a, i, -, -, -, -, g, h, i, j, k, I, m, n, o, p, q, r eighteenth century
If in a comparison of the thirteenth century with our own the dis-
course is upon the matters A, B, C and D we may find their insights,
a, b, c, d, singularly like our own. The case may be the same for the
matters G, H, I compared with g, h, i. But if, by chance, we are
comparing their insight e with our absence of insight or our X, Y, Z,
with the blanks in their experience, we are astonished at the difference
of outlook. This formal and unimaginative illustration may not be
quite useless in clarifying ones thought upon a matter easy to de-
scribe in words and exceedingly difficult to realize. It is essential
