30 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
boiling temperatures. Dr. Stoney himself holds that carbon dioxide
would give the appearances of vapor, frost and snow, which are seen
with the telescope; and there are still heavier gases which might be
imagined to be present. In any case, the conditions seem quite in-
compatible with life of our earthly type.
As already hinted, the atmosphere of a world depends on its
gravitation. Gases tend to diffuse into space, unless retained by ade-
quate attraction. Our earth can hardly retain so light and mobile a
gas as hydrogen ; Mars may have difficulty in retaining the less mobile
vapor of water; but the gravitation of the moon is too slight to retain
any known gas, hence she has no atmosphere and no water. Yet this
is not sufficient reason for assuming the absence of life. The surface
of the moon is usually considered to have been for a long time in an
inert state. If it had been so, the accumulation of meteoric stones and
dust during ages would have covered it with a uniform veil. Instead
of this, the surface presents much variety of tint and texture, indica-
ting a still continuing geological activity; and some changes in its
markings are said to have been observed in recent years. Professor
Lapworth, regarding it with a geologists eye, feels convinced that the
moon is an active and living world. The geological activity may be the
result of the extremes of temperature which are produced by the
regular alternation of a half-months sunshine and a half-months
darkness. At the same time such extremes might awaken to vital
activity elements which behave as dead on this earth.
In contrast to the naoon are the very large planets, Jupiter and
Saturn. Owing to the high gravitation, the atmosphere of such planets
is very dense, and so loaded with opaque particles that we can not see
through it to the body of the planet within. But though the body is
beyond our scrutiny, we can infer that it is very hot, even at the sur-
face; for if the solar system was formed (as is assumed) by condensa-
tion of a nebula, the heat of condensation must be proportionately
greater and longer retained in a large world than in a small one.
Thus for the purposes of life on these great planets the energy radi-
ating from within may be available, and indeed may largely exceed the
energy received from the sun at so great a distance. The satellites of
these planets may resemble our moon, except that they receive much less
energy from the sun.
Of Uranus and Neptune we know very little; but their large size
leads us to suppose that their physical conditions may have some resem--
blance to those of Jupiter and Saturn.
What can we say of the possibility of life in the sun? The visible
surface or photosphere has a temperature so high that even iron exists
there as a gas, and almost all chemical compounds known to us may be
dissociated. The deeper parts are doubtless far hotter still, with
chemical possibilities or impossibilities beyond our comprehension. In
