336 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Study of Language. — The quality of one language can never be per-
fectly reproduced in another; Latin altogether lacks many necessary words; a
translator must not only be perfectly acquainted with his subject, but also with
the two languages with which he deals; the translators of Aristotle have not
fulfilled this condition; errors remain in the Vulgate; Hebrew, Chaldean, Latin,
Greek (and Arabic) should be studied.
Mathematical Science is the key to all sciences; astronomy depends on
mathematics; things terrestrial no less, since they are governed by things
celestial.
Rays issuing in infinite number from a point in every direction find their
termination on the hollow surface of a sphere. Light and other forces propa-
gate themselves in this way. By the foregoing principles and others akin to
them all natural actions are to be explained — as, for example, eclipses. (The
moon and planets are self-luminous.) Refraction is discussed. The varying
heat of different regions of the earth at diflerent seasons is explained.
The emanations from the stars affect not merely climate but character;
implanting in the new-born child dispositions to good and evil: though free-
will, Gods grace, temptations of the devil, or education may modify these innate
tendencies. (Temperament is itself a result of the influence of the stars.)
The theory of (radiations of force) may be applied to the tides. These
evidently depend on the moon. It is still unexplained why tides occur in the
hemisphere averted from the moon.
On geometrical grounds the shape of the universe may be inferred to be
spherical. The water, air and the fire surrounding the earth concentrically are
of similar form (the sphere of fire is neither luminous nor visible).
In a body falling towards the earths center a strain is involved; from this
strain, heat results; experiment shows this to be a fact.
The Application of Mathematics to Sacred Subjects. — Astronomy shows the
insignificance of the earth as compared with the heavens. The smallest of the
stars is larger than the earth. Chronology is dependent upon astronomy. The
lunar periods are discussed.
The rainbow is produced by the solar rays striking on the raindrops and
being refracted or reflected thence.
One degree of latitude is 56 miles. The semi-diameter of the earth is 3,250
miles. The distance of the starry sphere (according to Alfraganus) is 130,-
715,000 miles. The distances of the planets are given — Saturns as 65,357,500
miles (it is in fact 886,000,000) and the moons 208,541 (it is in fact 238,840).
There are 1,022 fixed stars catalogued. The largest are 107 times as
large as the earth ; the smallest 18 times. Besides these there are infinite num-
bers of other stars.
Astrology as it relates to church government is discussed. Christianity is
associated with the conjunctions of the planets Jupiter and Mercury; the
extinction of religions is related to the conjunctions of Jupiter and Saturn with
the moon.
The correction of the Church Calendar is discussed. At the present time
its errors are so great as to attract the ridicule of Jevsdsh and Arab astronomers.
Geography is discussed at length. The space of ocean separating Spain
and India is inconsiderable; the seven climates of Ptolemy.
Astrology. — The sun may be said to beget no less than the parent. Each
planet has an influence. Special parts of the body are affected by different
constellations. The bearing of this on medical art is obvious. The comet
of 1264 was due to Mars, and it was related to the European wars of that year.
Optics. — The organs of vision, psychical and cerebral; the organs of the
sensitive soul are in the brain; threefold division of the brain; the heart is the
