338 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nearly everywhere enriched by original observations. In his treatise De
Animalibus (Vol. VI. of his works) he begins by a study of the spinal
column, calls the sponges the lowest forms of animal life, improves
on the zoological classification of his forerunners, and includes good
descriptions of the fauna of the Arctic, and at the same time admits
the legendary monsters of the Bestiaires of the tenth century, the
barnacle-goose, anser arboreus, for example.
His botany is said to be fuU of errors. He quotes Plinys facts
relating to the fecundation of the date-palm, and correctly explains
them, it is believed for the first time. _ The term affinity is first used
in his chemical writings. There was no branch of knowledge that
he did not treat, from mineralogy to magnetism, and it is noteworthy
that he describes the magnet as in use by navigators in his time.*
It is not necesary in this place to speak of the achievement of St.
Thomas Aquinas, the pupil of Albertus. His work does not lie in the
field of physics, but in the universe of man. His Summa treats more
than five hundred questions, but only one section refers to the phe-
nomena of the faiaterial world. One remark may be made on the
activity of the thirteenth century. Every one of the distinctly
modern* problems was propounded in that age. Few were solved;
but substantially all of them were stated. When a problem is clearly
stated it is at least half solved.
The most noted figure in the generation preceding Copernicus was
Eegiomontanus, who is always thought of in company with his col-
leagues Purbach and Walther. They formed part of a group of
German and Italian astronomers, calculators and teachers, no one of
whom made any signal advance, but all of whom were well instructed
in the fashion of the time. There are many names of men forgotten
to-day among this group ; but, on the other hand, the faint beginnings
of a critical spirit are here and there to be noted. The Almagest was
not always taken as infallible; observation began to be accepted as a
test of theory. Dominicus of Bologna, the teacher of Copernicus, is
a marked example of the new spirit.
George Purbach (or Beurbach, from his native village), professor
of astronomy in the University of Vienna, was born in 1433 (died
1461), and studied at Vienna and in Italy. He was a votary of the
old astronomy, and his chief work, Theoncce Novce Planetarum (1460),
is a development of the doctrine of crystalline spheres. At the same
time he was an ardent student of Ptolemy. The epicycles of Ptolemy
were a geometrical conception; the crystalline spheres of Eudoxus and
Purbach a crude cosmological idea; they could not be reconciled with
nature. In so far Purbach was on the wrong road. He saw, how-
ever, the necessity for further observations of the planets and for
* It was introduced into Europe by Flavio Gioja, according to common
report, about 1302.
