TEE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 339
accurate tables to replace those constructed for Alphonso the Wise,
which no longer served to predict eclipses or to account for the con-
figurations of the planets.* Errors of a couple of hours in the pre-
dicted time of a lunar eclipse were noted, and Mars was two degrees
away from its calculated place.
In the work of observation and calculation he gained an invaluable
coadjutor in Johann Miiller, of Konigsberg, a village of Franconia,
one of his pupils. Miiller called himself, after the fashion of the
time, Johannes de Monteregio, but is known to us as Eegiomontanus.
Together they studied the works of Ptolemy, and together they ob-
served the planets with the best instruments they could construct,
though their apparatus was much inferior to that of the Arabs. Like
all men of their time they were believers in judicial astrology, and their
tables were arranged to meet the wants of this pseudo-science. At
the same time astronomy benefited by their investigations, which
began to be based on actual observation of the sky.
The Papal Nuncio in Vienna was then Cardinal Bessarion, once
Bishop of Nicaea in the Greek, now high in power in the Latin Church
and a friend of learning. Purbachs enthusiasm for the works of
Ptolemy was shared by the cardinal, and they planned a new edition
of his writings. For such an edition it was necessary to collect Greek
manuscripts. After the death of Purbach (1461) Eegiomontanus
went to Italy in the cardinals suite for this purpose (1462). Here
he remained some seven years, collecting manuscripts, mastering the
Greek language, studying the sciences, and writing his treatise on
trigonometry. His text of Ptolemy was printed at Basel in 1538 and
was used by Copernicus.
In 1471 he was settled in Nuremberg near the printing presses that
had been installed a few years earlier. Here he had the fortune to
meet a wealthy amateur, Bernhard Walther (1430-1504), who built
an observatory for their joint use, and aided him in his publication
of various writings, his ovm and Purbachs. The Ephemerides of
Eegiomontanus made him famous. They were the nautical almanacs
of those days, and were used by Columbus and Vasco da Gama in their
voyages of discovery. He is also the inventor of the method of lunar
distances for determining the longitude at sea. He was invited to
Eome by the Pope in 1475 to reform the calendar and there died in
1476.
There is a legend that Eegiomontanus was assassinated by the sons
of George of Trebizond, the first translator of the Almagest of Ptolemy
from the Greek, because of strictures passed upon it. The legend
* This great collection of tables was calculated in the middle of the thir-
teenth century by Arabian and Jewish astronomers, under the patronage of the
king, on the system of Ptolemy with some changes. The Libros del Saber were
an encyclopedia of all the astronomical knowledge of the time and are invalu-
able to the historian.
