340 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
is probably not true, but it is, perhaps, worth repeating, as it was
credited at the time and casts a light on the age. During his short
life Eegiomontanus accomplished much, and gave promise of more.
In particular he greatly improved the doctrine of trigonometry. Pur-
bach and himself were the very first Europeans to utilize the discoveries
of the Arabs in this science. As every astronomical calculation de-
pends upon the solution of spherical triangles, the tables of sines and
(tangents computed by Eegiomontanus were of fundamental importance,
•■since they gave numerical values of these trigonometric functions
Calculated once for all, and saved the computer endless special
reckonings.
It is difficult for us to conceive the state of science in those days.
The school-boy problem : given a^ h, c, in a spherical triangle, to find
A, B, C, was considered operose by Eegiomontanus and his friends,
although the solution had been reached long before, by Albategnius.
Blanchini, a contemporary of note, sends Mm the following equations
for solution:
a;:2/ = 5:8; x A^y = x]j.
A star rises at Venice at 3^ 25™, and transits at 7^^ 38™, after mid-
■:night ; required its longitude and latitude : is a problem addressed to
Blanchini, in return. The Arabs five centuries earlier would have
found these questions easy. Eegiomontanus was, nevertheless, the
most accomplished man of science in Europe. The ancients determined
the longitude of a planet somewhat as follows : The difference of longi-
tude between the planet and the moon was measured (J.) and next the
difference of longitude between the moon and the sun (5). The longi-
tude of the sun was calculated from the solar tables (0). The sum
of A, B and C gave the planets longitude. In Walthers observatory
the angular distances of the planet from known stars were measured
and the required longitude and latitude of the planet were calculated,
by the formulae of spherical trigonometry, from the known longitudes
and latitudes of the stars. The gain in precision was considerable, and
the observations could be made on any clear night, whether the moon
was or was not above the horizon.
Walther survived his friend for many years and carried on the
observations which they had begun together. It was in their observa-
tory that clocks (not pendulum-clocks) were first employed to meas-
ure short intervals of time and that observations were first corrected
for terrestrial refraction. A star seen through the atmosphere appears
higher above the horizon than if the atmosphere were absent. Its
apparent position must then be corrected for refraction in order to
obtain its true place. At an altitude greater than 45° the correction
is less than 1, which was inappreciable before the day of the telescope ;
but near the horizon the correction is large (the line of sight passing
