THE PREDECESSORS OF COPERNICUS. 341
through the deepest layer of atmosphere there) and must he taken
account of, even with rude observing apparatus. Kefraction had been
studied by Ptolemy and more deeply by Alhazen and Eoger Bacon.
Twilight, the scattering of the rays of the sun from the particles of
dust and the like in the upper atmosphere, was investigated by Peter
Nonius (1492-1577) a voluminous writer on astronomical matters.
All that was known in astronomy was familiar to Eegiomontanus,
and during his seven years residence in Italy his relations were with
the best instructed savants of Eome, who were then concerned with
projects for improving and correcting the calendar. When Copernicus
went to Italy in 1496 the best traditions of all Europe had spread
throughout its universities and he was, therefore, familiar with all that
his predecessors had accomplished.
A passage from the Principles of Astronomy of Gemma Frisius
(died 1558) is worth translation, since it fixes an important date and
describes methods of determining longitudes and latitudes which are
used to-day. He says: People are beginning to make use of little
clocks that are called watches. They are not too heavy to be carried
about; they will run nearly twenty-four hours, and even longer if you
aid them a bit; they afford a very easy method of determining longi-
tude. Before starting on a journey, set your watch carefully to the
local time of the country you are leaving; take pains that the watch
doesnt stop on the road; when you have gone twenty leagues, for
instance, determine the local time of the place where you are, with an
astrolabe ; compare this with the time by your watch, and you will have
the difference of longitude. The latitude of the place can be had
by measuring the altitude of the pole-star. Watches, which were
invented about 1525, varied several minutes a day, and the portable
astrolabes of the time could hardly give the altitude so close as 10;
but the methods were correct, and are those to-day employed in using
the chronometer and the sextant.
Mention must be made of Peter Bienewitz, otherwise Peter Apianus
(born 1495, died 1552), who expounded the Ptolemaic system in a
great volume — Astronomicum Ccesareum (1540). Apianus was the
first to observe the sun through colored glasses. The astronomers of
Bagdad had observed an eclipse, when the sun was low, by its reflec-
tion in water, and Eeinhold had proposed to project the solar image
on a card in a camera obscura, a method which was used by the
astronomers of Galileos time. His best contribution to astronomy
was the discovery that the tails of comets are generally directed away
from the sun, a remark independently made by Fracastor.
Comets in his day were usually supposed to be atmospheric phe-
nomena. Why this connection between them and the sun? Wliy
should the sun, and not the earth, control their forms? The comet
of 1472 had been studied by Eegiomontanus and its course among the
