THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, 343
THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY IN THOSE OF
ADVANCING YEARS.
By J. MADISON TAYLOR, A.M., M.D.,
PHILADELPHIA.
nnHE study of the conditions and changes in the tissues of human
-^ beings as they pass beyond middle age would seem at first sight
to be of wide-spread interest. Upon the very simplest presentation
of the matter it will be universally admitted to be of the greatest im-
portance. The first principle of economics is not so much what we
win in any line of industry as what we save; this is the essence of the
conservation of values. What matters it how well the child is pro-
vided with opportunities for growth and how excellently the young
adult is developed in the fullness of such strength as is compatible
with individual opportunity; how high a degree of eflSciency, mental
or physical, can be attained, if all this is to last but for a few brief
years of practical utility? Again, allowing ourselves to indulge in a
more selfish view, what does it profit us if we shall acquire place and
power and the means by which we may be able to enjoy life, as we
have learned to live it through years of experience and the exercise
of careful choice, if we are to become speedily cut off from the con-
tinuance of the enjoyment of those privileges the product of matured
judgment and the full energizing of our powers? It is to me a re-
markable, indeed an astonishing, fact in searching for data on the
subject of senility which one would naturally assume to have grown
up in the enormous field of medical literature, that so little is to be
found bearing on this subject. There are here and there references
to old age and the phenomena of senility in a few of the standard
works on physiology, far fewer than the subject would seem to warrant.
The subject does not seem to have aroused much interest in the great
authorities on medicine, although there are some crisp and vigorous
articles which are valuable and interesting.
My own studies have been most largely in the line of growth and
development of children and yet interest by no means ends there,
and my attention has been drawn to this matter through a constant
study based upon part medical research and part individual interest
in the whole question of bodily development and the possibilities which
lie in this direction for the advance of individual efficiency in all
periods of life. It has seemed that the phenomena of degeneration
are present in most disturbances referable to those of the nerves and
their centers where the analogue of senile changes constantly appears.
