THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 345
of the town dweller is unknown. But enough is currently reported to
make the conclusion inevitable that the sine qua non of longevity is
a certain amount of time spent in the country. The city child is
subject to a number of disturbing conditions other than mere absence
of creature comforts, which undermine the constitution by throwing
too heavy a burden upon the sense organs, through which exhaustion
of the central neurons follow; these conditions are such as noises, a
perpetual round of hurry, unending sequences of incident exhausting
the attention, to which are superadded the physical discomforts of
vitiated air and effluvia from human beings and waste organic prod-
ucts, besides offensive gases and infection-laded dust, etc. All these
and others more than offset the civic improvements which have
their value, of well paved streets and shelter from winds, better
housing and many conditions furnished in cities and not in country
places. What has been said does not obtain in respect to well condi-
tioned villages and suburbs; at least to the same degree. All this
makes for an alteration in the character and quality of symmetrical
development. When adult age is reached, these conditions are merely
exaggerated. The rush and hurry of competition still interferes with the
acquirement of full organic vigor, which demands for its fruition, ade-
quate time and leisure, so that cellular stability may be safely secured.
To those of comfortable means, who can from time to time withdraw
from the agitating circumstances of city life and enjoy periods of rest
and quietude elsewhere, there is less left to be desired. For those who
can choose their manner of living, the natural instinct may be trusted
to secure selection of those opportunities in the life of most persons
which will make for better conditions for continuance of life. To
those who have reached middle age, and to whom the desire comes
of conserving their powers to the utmost, it is distinctly possible to
gain excellent success. So far as the general circumstances of life are
concerned, there should be no difficulty in intelligent persons deter-
mining for themselves what had best be done. This of course will
consist in relieving themselves from worry, strains and anxieties, and
in the periodic withdrawal from the hurly-burly of effortful existence ;
in modifying their diet, in omitting the use of stimulants and nar-
cotics and in spending long periods of time under pleasant conditions,
in practical retirement. Above all, amusements should be simplified
and accepted rather than sought after. There is enough. Heaven knows,
of happiness to be had in keeping the eye, mind and heart open to the
enjoyment of those opportunities which lie in the pathways of every one.
It has been my experience to know a number of men and some
women who, when the occasion came to them out of the fullness of
opportunities for choice, instead of contenting themselves with enjoying
life, rushed after such sports as were popular or fashionable, thought
to be amusement, and the following of these exhausting pleasures cut
