LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS. 31
fact the chemistry of the sun is of so different an order from any that
we have experience of, that we can not reconcile it with any of our
notions of life. But if such a vast fund of energy can run to waste
without producing life except in distant planets, there must be in
nature an extravagance such as almost to justify those persons who
imagine our own world to be the only one bearing life, and the whole
universe to be made for man.
These few particulars, which we have learned concerning the physical
conditions prevailing in other worlds of our solar system, are distinctly
against the probability of their possessing life similar to that existing
in this world. If they contain life, even life depending on the same
principles, it must be quite different in its manifestations, and not
easily recognizable with the telescope. If any germ of life should
escape from this world and land upon another member of the solar
system, it must pretty certainly perish for want of the necessary con-
ditions. The same might be said of a germ from another world landing
on our earth — if indeed we have any right to speak of a germ from
another world, since the word is geomorphic, and actually assumes
that similarity which we hold to be improbable in life under different
conditions.
Whether any members of other solar systems resemble our own in
physical conditions is naturally a matter of pure speculation; but
there is no a priori impossibility, since the spectroscope shows that
many of the fixed stars contain the same elements as our sun, and
have about the same temperature.
kf# «i* ftC« ktf stf ^f *t* ^|j «i# *f*
We are considering only such life as depends on the same principles
as earthly life. We may admit the possibility of other kinds of life,
having nothing in common with such life as we know, but at present
we have no grounds for speculation concerning them. Keeping within
the bounds of legitimate induction, we are led to the following con-
clusions :
1. If life is essentially a function of the elements nitrogen, oxygen,
carbon and hydrogen, acting together, then it can probably occur only
on exceptional worlds, with conditions closely resembling those of our
own earth. Such conditions are not present in any other world in our
solar system, nor can they be expected to occur frequently in members
of other systems.
2. On the other hand, if different conditions can awaken a capacity
for exalted energy traflSc among other elements than those just named,
then the universe seems to provide immense possibilities of life, whose
variety and magnificence may far exceed an5d;hing that we can imagine.
