348 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ber of intelligent, indeed most wise and capable Hindoos, had acquired
great length of days without impairment to their best powers.
All such matters must be discussed with due deliberation and full
knowledge of all attainable facts. The topic at the time interested me
exceedingly, and in the course of a research which I made upon the
causation of mental impairment, imbecility and idiocy, I became con-
vinced that the use of opium by the individual was of relatively little
harm in some exceptional instances. It certainly does not seem to be
as hurtful as the habitual use of alcohol. So far as the effect of these
poisons, for poisons they are, upon the second generation, it was shown
that alcohol produced infinitely worse results upon the second and
third generation of those that used it than followed the use of opium.
Close to the realm of deliberate thought and rational conclusions
comes the debatable ground of varying opinion. The study of the life
history of aged people would furnish much of value if it could be under-
taken judiciously and thoroughly studied. The opinion of these or
those old persons as to what article of diet, the use or omission of which
aided them to acquire their age, comes close up to the realm of conjec-
ture. As an instance of my study may be cited that of a certain lady,
famous in my city for wit and wisdom, and who attained a ripe old
age with apparently no diminution of her powers. She was on one
occasion presiding in a distant city over a meeting of Colonial Dames,
and was regarded as almost a prophetess by many, both friends and
strangers. She told me that a certain lady approached her with much
deference one morning and asked with bated breath if she would be so
good as to tell her to what she attributed her great age and elasticity of
mind and body. In the way of a joke she told her that it had always
been her custom to eat great quantities of salt; and in relating the
story to me, this lady said that she had no doubt that by this time that
stranger was thoroughly well pickled in endeavoring to follow her lead.
It must always be borne in mind that old age is an inexact term.
During the middle ages, statistics would seem to show that the recog-
nized span of life was much shorter than it is now. As an instance of
this. Old John of Gaunt, who was a byword, throughout many trouble-
some years, of age and wisdom, yet died before he was sixty. Warwick,
the King Maker, whose history lapsed over that of many sovereigns,
is said to have died at the age of fifty-four. In our own time great
improvements have been wrought, more particularly within the last
quarter of a century, in the matter of increasing the tenure of life,
and the average of age has been brought up in a most satisfactory
fashion to that which we could not have expected, although optimists
have hoped for.
Again, mere existence beyond the ordinary bounds set by nature is
of little value unless accompanied by many characteristics and quali-
ties which make life worth living. It certainly should not be a desirable
