THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 349
fate to remain alive and yet lose the capacity of enjoyment or, what is
even more important, the capacity of being enjoyed. If it be not an
integral part of the personality of an old man or woman to present
qualities of attractiveness to others, the fullness of life has not been
attained. The factors which go to make up the quality of desirable
and admirable old age are above all, first and foremost, self respect,
an interest in the affairs of others, a dignity and kindliness, a patient
and uncomplaining endurance and a capacity constantly exercised to be
of use in the world. A woman, for instance, can if she give her undi-
vided attention to it, grow old so charmingly that she may at great age
attain more grace and fascination than she had in her youth or middle
life. We all know instances of this truth though some are thus more
blessed than others. A man again may become a greater power for good
even when well past the age of so-called usefulness than at any pre-
vious time. Nor do these qualifications depend necessarily so much
upon the original structure of mind or body as the maintenance of a
faithful vigilance and conscious desire to be, and do, that which shall
furnish forth these good attributes.
The principles of action upon which the effects of advancing years
may be postponed are simple, clear and practicable. The difficulties
are chiefly the indifference or indolence which age begets. Wherever
a person has acquired an active desire to retain the freshness of youth
and is moderately diligent in pursuing whatever means should be
adopted, the results are successful often beyond expectation. The
conditions of success are an original soundness of constitution and
fairly healthy organs. It might be added reasonably comfortable cir-
cumstances, but I know several cases where the environment was far
from satisfactory, and daily labor onerous, yet these people were not
discouraged. One other condition might be mentioned as needed often,
but not constantly, viz., the counsel of a wise physician. Medical
advice ought to be more frankly and constantly sought for the lesser
infirmities of age than during middle life for reasons obvious. As the
internal resistances lessen small disorders more readily throw the
actions of the organism out of balance, and fatal results follow seem-
ingly small causes. Another prerequisite is consistency and persistence
in the measures employed. The balance of power in the old is not
easily retained, and regained with far greater difficulty. It is an axiom
among horsemen that an old horse can be kept fit if used carefully and
constantly, but once allowed to get into poor condition through disuse
it can never be reinstated.
The potentiality of cellular cleanliness, and lymph activity, on the
mechanism of life is paramount, and is not yet duly appreciated by
men in or out of the profession of medicine.
Diet has been alluded to already and all that it is needful to say
here is to repeat that temperance in food and drink is an essential
