TEE DISTRIBUTION OF METEORITES. 351
THE GEOGKAPHICAL DISTEIBUTION OF METEOEITES.
By Dx. OLIVER C. FARRINGTON,
FIELD COLUMBIAN MUSEUM.
SPEAKING broadly, we know as yet of no fundamental reason why
meteorite falls should be any more numerous upon one part of
the earths surface than upon another.
Compared with the vast area of space in which meteorites wander,
our earth is but a point, which draws into itself from time to time one
of these masses. Moreover, it is a rotating and wabbling point, ever
presenting new surfaces to the portions of space in which it is traveling.
The marksman who displays his skill by shooting glass balls thrown
into the air would have the difficulty of his task enormously increased
if he should endeavor to strike successively the same point upon the
ball, especially if it had in addition to its forward motion one of
rapid rotation about a wabbling axis. It is true that there is some
prospect of our being able after much study and comparison of data
to locate a few meteorite swarms with sufficient accuracy to warrant
a conclusion as to what point upon the earth stones from them will
strike, but this possibility seems at present quite remote. At present
we can only presume that a gentle rain of meteorites has fallen regu-
larly and impartially upon the earth since the morning stars first
sang together.
The latest and best calculations, which are by Professor Berwerth,
of Vienna, have shovra that the number of meteorites actually falling
upon the earth at the present time each year, not including of course
shooting stars or meteors, is about nine hundred. Two or three of
these bodies fall, then, somewhere upon the earth every twenty-four
hours. But about three fourths of the earths surface is covered with
water, and the missiles impinging upon this area are lost. Upon the
remaining one fourth, however, 225 falls should take place, accom-
panied by phenomena such as to make the occurrence noteworthy, A
large part of the land is, however, unpopulated and our figure of 225
may, therefore, be cut in half in order to take account of this factor.
Again, falls taking place in the night would, in many cases, not be
observed, and as a last concession we may halve our figure on this
account. It would finally seem then that about 55 meteorite falls
capable of record might be expected to take place each year, and in a
century the total should be 5,500. As a matter of fact, the total
number of recorded meteorite falls, including some from as far back
as the fifteenth century, is only about 350.
