352 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The first conclusion one is likely to draw from results so contra-
dictory is that the original premise is entirely at fault. Yet within
the small area of France 50 well-authenticated meteorite falls have
taken place within the last one hundred years. We have no reason
to suppose France especially favored of the gods in regard to the
number of meteorites which it receives and, as it covers only about
one one-thousandth part of the earths surface, we shall find by
reversing the calculations made above that our original figure of 900
a year is fully substantiated. Th-^ difficulty will be somewhat ex-
plained by a glance at the accompanying map. Tracing upon this
the locations of known meteorite falls, we see at once that they are
largely confined to the civilized nations, or, with the exception of the
Semites of Africa and Arabia, to regions inhabited by the Caucasian
race. Of a total of 63i known meteorites, 256 are located in Europe
and 177 in the United States. In other words, more than two thirds of
the whole number known belong to countries which occupy but about
one eighth of the land surface.
We reach then the rather curious conclusion that the ability to
observe and record meteorite falls is a mark of civilization, and that
the relative civilization of regions equally populated may be judged
by the numbers of meteorites known from each. The superiority of
civilized peoples in this regard comes probably not so much from their
greater ability to observe the fall of a meteorite as from their better
facilities for recording such an occurrence and for preserving the stone
which has fallen. To an unorganized community, the fall of a
meteorite is an isolated occurrence, impressive enough at the time,
but so infrequent that in the absence of records or means of com-
munication with other communities, it is lost sight of. Civilized com-
munities with their means of records and museums are able to corre-
late such occurrences, and in time accumulate important knowledge
regarding them. So upon the accompanying map there are depicted
not only the places where meteorites have fallen, but the isolation of
China, the bleakness of Canada, the impenetrability of South America,
the hollowness of Australia and the darkness of Africa. Meteorites
known from uncivilized countries should for the most part be credited
to travelers from civilized nations.
It would be quite superficial, however, to suppose that the distri-
bution of Caucasian peoples is the only important factor affecting the
location of known meteorite falls. There are evidences that other fac-
tors, the nature of which can hardly be even suggested as yet, affect
the place of fall of meteorites. Thus, there appears upon the accom-
panying map a tendency of these bodies to flock toward mountainous
regions. This is indicated by the large numbers of them occurring in
India near the Himalayas, in Europe in the vicinity of the Alps, in the
United States about the southern Appalachians, and in the Americas
