354 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
found in the two hemispheres. Thus, taking falls and finds together,
of the 256 meteorites known from the western hemisphere, 182 are
irons and only 74 stones; while from the eastern hemisphere, of 378
known, 299 are stones and only 79 are irons. Professor Berwerth has
sought to account for the excess of irons in the new world by the sug-
gestion that the dry air of the desert areas which abound in this
hemisphere has preserved meteorites fallen in long distant periods,
while those of a similar age in the other hemisphere have been exposed
to a moist climate and have for the most part been decomposed. It
is true that many of the iron meteorites known from the western
hemisphere occur upon the Mexican and Chilean deserts, but quite as
many come from the southern Appalachians, where a comparatively
moist climate prevails. There are also numerous desert areas in the
old world perhaps as fully explored as those of the new, so that on the
whole the above explanation seems inadequate.
Other remarkable groupings of meteorites with regard to their
geographical distribution may be noted when areas smaller than
hemispheres are compared. Thus of a total of nine meteorites be-
longing to the peculiar class called howardites, five have fallen in
Eussia. Of the nine meteorites known belonging to the still more
remarkable class of carbonaceous meteorites, three have fallen in
France and two in Russia.
Again small areas of equal extent and equally well populated vary
curiously in their number of meteorite falls. Within the state of
Illinois, for instance, no meteorite is known ever to have fallen, while
in the state of Iowa, which has about the same area, but a smaller
population, four falls have been noted, and from the state of Kansas,
which has a larger area than Illinois, but a smaller and less uniformly
distributed population, twelve meteorites are known.
It is usual to dismiss inquiries regarding the meaning of such
groupings with the remark that they are mere coincidences. But it
is the mission of science to investigate coincidences, and however long
the task may be of determining the laws which bring about the partic-
ular occurrences here referred to, there can be no doubt that they are
the result of law and of law which will some day be discerned by the
human mind.
