32 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE NEW WEST POINT.
By WILLIAM J. ROE,
NEW YORK.
TN the year 1802, by act of Congress, the United States Military
-*- Academy was established at West Point on the Hudson Kiver.
The experience of Washington during the war of the revolution with
the militia of the several states and with raw volunteers was con-
vincing as to the necessity for a permanent military establishment, and
especially for the creation of a considerable body of officers sedulously
trained in the art of war. The sentiments of the people then, and for
many years after, were not favorable to the formation of a standing
army, and it was not until the many and serious reverses of the land
forces in the war of 1812 that any progress was made at West Point
in the way of educating officers for their countrys service. In the
year 1817, — James Monroe being president and George Graham
of Virginia secretary of war, Sylvanus Thayer, of Massachusetts, be-
came superintendent of the academy, and at once began a system of
instruction and discipline so complete and admirable as to have been
maintained in almost the minutest detail to the present day. General
Thayer remained at the head of the academy until 1833.
During the period between the close of the war with Great Britain
and 1846, the sole opportunity for the graduates of West Point to
prove their value was upon the frontier as it then was, the Rocky
Mountains and the Plains in contest with hostile Indians. In
this sort of warfare there was more room for the display of the for-
esters and trappers craft and experience than for the exercise of
tactics or grand-strategy, and the consequence was that again the
people grew impatient with the appropriations for the acad,3my8
maintenance. By this time a numerous body of officers had been
graduated, and the idea of a thousand or more men with a life tenure
of office and something akin to special privilege and European
exclusiveness did not find favor with either democrats or republic-
ans. About this time it was in fact seriously contemplated to
abolish the academy altogether. It is more than probable that this
would have been done by congress, if at this juncture the Mexican war
had not suddenly burst upon the country. We have, it must be con-
fessed, but little to be proud of as to the origin of this war, or to the
aggressive and not wholly unscrupulous terms that were finally forced
upon Mexico; but the war accomplished at least one good result by
demonstrating the merit and necessity of trained leaders. With a
