36o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
thropic millionaire with which to build and equip an entire institution
at the start, were necessarily small, and the growth slow, until the
public should recognize the worth and value of such an organization
and assist it with substantial gifts.
The first building erected by the university was the south wing of
the old university group on Seventeenth Street, near Washington
Avenue, in which a school was opened in 1856. During the first year
lOS scholars were entered in this school, which afterwards became the
preparatory department of the university, the name being subsequently
changed to its present title of Smith Academy.
On the twenty-second of April, 1857, the formal inauguration of
the Washington University took place, with appropriate exercises in
Academic Hall and an oration delivered by the Honorable Edward
Everett, as well as addresses by the president of the board and several
of the directors. This same year, 1857, saw also the erection of a
building for a chemical laboratory and the appointment of Dr. Abram
Litton to the chair of chemistry. Dr. Litton, the first thoroughly
trained chemist west of the Mississippi Eiver,* held this position
until 1892.
The chair of mechanics and engineering was filled by the appoint-
ment of Joseph J. Eeynolds, a graduate of West Point, and afterwards
Brevet Major-General in the United States Army. The chair of
physics and civil engineering was filled by the appointment of John
M. Schofield, also a graduate of the United States Military Academy,
of the class of 1853, who, after a brilliant record during the civil war,
finally reached the rank of Lieutenant-General commanding the
United States Army.
Dr. George Engelmann, the leading scientist of the west, was
called to the chair of botany; Dr. Charles A. Pope, the celebrated sur-
geon at the head of the St. Louis Medical College, was made professor
of comparative anatomy and physiology, and the Eev. Truman M.
Post accepted the professorship of ancient and modern history. With
such distinguished men on its first faculty, the infiuence of the univer-
sity in the community was at once felt, and the future seemed assured.
During 1858 a college building was erected on the corner of Wash-
ington Avenue and Seventeenth Street, and on December 17 of that
year Joseph G. Hoyt was elected the first chancellor of the university.
Chancellor Hoyt was a native of New Hampshire and a graduate of
Yale College, of the class of 1840, and for many years had been pro-
fessor of mathematics at Phillips Academy, Exeter, IST. H. He was a
man of scholarship and learning, and of great tact and affability, than
whom no one could be better fitted for the young institution.
* The Popular Science Monthly, December, 1903, p. 122, footnote.
