THE NE}Y WEST POINT.
33
little army of only a few thousands, officered almost wholly by West
Point graduates, Winfield Scott marched from the Gulf to the Valley
of the City of Mexico, gaining victory after victory, to finally dictate
the terms of peace from the Halls of Montezuma.
The change of sentiment among the people as to graduated cadets
was instantaneous, and from that day no thought has found expression
adverse to the interests of educating and maintaining a considerable
body of competent officers.
The reasons for the peoples change of sentiment are not to be
found alone in the proved ability of West Point men in campaigning,
or in any superior valor in action. Others than graduates have shown
great skill in strategy, and the volunteer has always been easily his
^^
liliil
The First Academy.
equal in courage and endurance, with perhaps that moral advantage
of not being a hireling soldier. It is that through now a full cen-
tury the record of the graduates of West Point has been spread before
the country, and has been found to be on the average so exceedingly
high as to be a matter not only of congratulation, but astonishment.
There are West Point men who have gone badly astray; some have
been promptly cashiered out of the service ; others have fled with ill-
gotten spoils beyond a process, and others yet have had short shrift
in a penitentiary. There are such, but they are marvelously few. Not
only in the army, but in civil life, the standard of honor and of in-
tegrity has been and is marvelously high.
This has come, not that among the four thousand graduates the
same blood does not run and the same influences work for good or ill
as among a similar number of others; if they are on the average more
high-minded, more duteous in every department of life, it is that the
penalty for departure from the straight and narrow path is so ex-
tremely swift and terrible. Wliat is true in this respect in the army
and in business affairs is true perhaps to a greater extent in the
VOL. LXIV. — 3.
