366 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The undergraduate department of the university has always recog-
nized that its field of usefulness lay in the city of St. Louis, and no
attempt has been made to draw students from a distance. In the early
catalogues of the university is found this notice : Washington Univer-
sity has the advantage of not being incumbered with the dormitory
system, which has been proved by experiment to be both expensive and
troublesome — a great part of the disturbances so common in collegiate
institutions and most of the temptations to which young men in college
are exposed, arise from their monastic mode of life, and the consequent
removal from the social influence of home.
But in the last fifty years conditions have changed. St. Louis is
no longer a small western town of 78,000, but a metropolis of 700,000
inhabitants and the great commercial center of a vast and rapidly grow-
ing territory, especially to the south and southwest, and preparations
had to be made to receive the increasing number of students coming
to St. Louis for university training. Then the westward growth of the
city had left the group of university buildings in the midst of factories
and other objectionable surroundings. The noise was uncongenial to
classic teaching, the passing cars and heavy traffic prevented delicate
scientific observations and the dirt and smoke made the situation almost
unbearable.
In 1896 a tract of land containing 110 acres on the western border
of the city, adjoining Forest Park, was purchased with the intention of
moving the undergraduate department to this high and commanding
situation. The purchase price of $296,000 was subscribed by citizens
f St. Louis, largely through the efforts of the president of the board of
dij-ectors, Mr. Robert S. Brookings, to whom also belongs the credit of
raising an endowment fund of $500,000, of which he gave one fifth, as
well as the gift of the Cupples Station, a large group of wholesale busi-
ness buildings with splendid railroad facilities, valued at $3,000,000,
the joint gift of Mr. Brookings and Mr. Samuel Cupples.
An architectural competition was held to select a design for a group
of buildings for the undergraduate department on the new site. Plans
were submitted by the best architects of the country, and after careful
deliberation by an impartial committee those of Messrs. Cope and Stew-
ardson, of Philadelphia, were selected.
The style of architecture is that of the Tudor-Gothic period, and
the buildings are constructed of the best red Missouri granite in the
most substantial manner, and are thoroughly fireproof ; they are all two
stories high, thereby avoiding tedious climbing, the lecture rooms and
numerous laboratories are large, well-lighted and ventilated, and all the
latest improvements in scientific ediication are included, making them
equal, if not superior, to any group of college buildings in the country.
Eleven buildings are now occupied and ready for occupancy by
