WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY. 367
the university at the expiration of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition
which has leased them for the Worlds Fair period.
University Hall, facing the main approach to the group of new
buildings, the gift of Mr. Eobert S. Brookings, was erected at a cost
of $230,000. The building is 325 feet long, with wings on each end
119 feet long, and the towers 85 feet high. This building will contain
the administrative offices of the university, and the offices and lecture
rooms of twelve professors, besides study rooms, reception and faculty
rooms.
Cupples Hall, No. 1, erected by Mr. Samuel Cupples, at an ex-
penditure of about $110,000, is to be used by the department of civil
engineering and architecture. The building is 232 feet long and the
width 52 feet. It is two stories high on the quadrangle and three on
the north side. The first floor will be used by the department of
architecture and the second floor will be devoted to civil engineering.
Busch Hall, the laboratory of chemistry, was presented by Mr.
Adolphus Busch and cost $110,000. The building is 291 feet long
and about 60 feet wide, two stories high on the north side and three
on the south side, and contains laboratories for all branches of chem-
ical instruction and research work.
The library finishes out the first quadrangle and occupies a central
position in regard to the group of buildings. It was erected at a cost
of $250,000. The eastern front is 257 feet long and the depth is 46
feet, with a reading room one story high in the rear of the center of
the building, about 100 feet long and 41 feet wide. The building will
contain stacks with room for over 400,000 volumes.
Cupples, No. 2, and the Cupples Engineering Laboratory, directly
behind it, were also presented by Mr. Samuel Cupples, and cost to-
gether about $165,000. The hall is 207 feet long, the first floor of
which is to be devoted to mechanical engineering, and the second floor
to electrical engineering. The laboratory adjoining is only one story,
but is built in a style uniform with the other buildings, and of the
same grade of granite and will contain the engines, pumps, dynamos
and motors, etc., as are necessary for instruction in those departments.
The university power house close by is provided with a splendid equip-
ment of boilers, engines and dynamos, to furnish light, power and
heat for the entire plant.
Eads Hall, the laboratory of physics, the gift of Mrs. Eliza How
in memory of her father, Captain Jas. B. Eads, the well-known engi-
neer, adjoins the library on the west.
Farther to the west are two large dormitories both of the same
style and construction of the other buildings. Liggett Hall, erected by
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Liggett in memory of her husband, the late Mr.
John E. Liggett, at a cost of $100,000, will accommodate 75 students.
