WHAT IS GROUP THEORY? 369
WHAT IS GROUP THEORY?
By Professor G. A. MILLER,
LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY.
IN the recent International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, group
theor}^ is classed among the fundamental notions of mathematics.
The two other subjects which are classed under this heading are
foundations of arithmetic and universal algebra. While it might
be futile to attempt to popularize those recent advances in mathematics
which are based upon a long series of abstract concepts, it does not
appear so hopeless to give a popular exposition of fundamental notions.
In what follows we shall aim to give such an exposition of some of the
notions involved iii the theory of groups.
This theory seems to have a special claim on popular appreciation
in our country because it is one of the very few subjects of pure mathe-
matics in whose development America has taken a prominent part.
The activity of American mathematicians along this line is mainly
due to the teachings of Klein and Lie at the universities of Gottingen
and Leipzig respectively. During the Chicago exposition, the former
held a colloquium at Evanston, in which the fundamental importance
of the subject was emphasized and thus brought still more prominently
before the American mathematicians.
There is probably no other modern field of mathematics of which
so many prominent mathematicians have spoken in such high terms
during the last decade. In support of this strong statement we quote
the following:
There are two subjects which have become especially important for the
latest development of algebra; that is, on the one hand, the ever more domina-
ting theory of groups whose systematizing and clarifying influence can be felt
everywhere, and then the deep penetrations of number theory.* The theory of
groups, which is making itself felt in nearly every part of higher mathematics,
occupies the foremost place among the auxiliary theories which are employed
in the most recent function theory.f
In fine, the principal foundation of Euclids demonstrations is really the
existence of the group and its properties. Unquestionably he appeals to other
axioms which it is more difficult to refer to the notion of group. An axiom
of this kind is that which some geometers employ when they define a straight
line as the shortest distance between two points. But it is precisely such
axioms that Euclid enunciates. The others, which are more directly associated
with the idea of displacement and with the idea of groups, are the very ones
* Weber, * Lehrbuch der Algebra, vol. 1, 1898, preface.
t Fricke und Klein, Automorphe Functionen, vol. 1, 1897, p. 1.
VOL. LXIV. — 24.
