370 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which he implicitly admits and which he does not deem even necessary to
enunciate. This is tantamount to saying that the former are the fruit of later
experience, that the others were first assimilated by us, and that consequently
the notion of group existed prior to all others. . . . What we call geometry
is nothing but the study of formal properties of a certain continuous group,
so that we may say space is a group.*
From these words of Poincare it follows that the group concept
is implicitly involved in some of the earliest mathematical develop-
ments. In an explicit form it first appears in the writings of Lagrange
and Vandermonde in 1770. These men inaugurated a classic period
in the theory of algebraic equations by considering the number of
values which a rational integral function assumes when its elements
are permuted in every possible manner. For instance, if the elements
of the expression db + cd are permuted in every possible manner, it
will always assume one of the following three values : ah -\- cd, ac -\- bd,
ad + be.
The eight different permutations which do not change the value
of one of these expressions are said to form a permutation group and
the expression is said to belong to this group. There is always an
infinite number of distinct expressions which belong to the same per-
mutation group. Hence it is convenient for many purposes to deal
with the permutation group rather than with the expressions them-
selves. This fact was recognized very early and led to the study of
permutation groups, especially in connection with the theory of
algebraic equations. The most fundamental work along this line was
done by Galois, who influenced the later development most powerfully,
although he died when only twenty years old.
Galois first proved (about 1830) that the solution of any given
algebraic equation depends upon the structure of the permutation
group to which the equation belongs. As the algebraic solution of
equations occupies such a prominent place in the history of mathe-
matics this discovery of Galois furnished a powerful incentive for the
study of permutation groups. Before Galois an Italian named Ruffini
and a Norwegian named Abel had employed permutation groups to
prove that the general equation of the fifth degree can not be solved
by successive extraction of roots. In doing this the former studied
a number of properties of permutation groups and is therefore gen-
erally regarded as the founder of this theory.
The definition of a permutation group is very simple. It is merely
the totality of distinct permutations which do not change the formal
value of a given expression. Such a totality of permutations has many
remarkable properties. One of the most important of these is the
fact that any two of them are equivalent to some one. That is, if
* Poincare, The Monist, vol. 9, 1898, pp. 34 and 41.
