WHAT IS GROUP THEORY? 37 1
any one of these permutations is repeated, or is followed by some other
permutation in the totality, the result is equivalent to a single permu-
tation in the totality. This property is characteristic; for if any set
of distinct permutations possesses this property they form a permuta-
tion group and it is possible to construct an infinite number of expres-
sions such that they are unchanged by these permutations but by no
others.
Soon after the fundamental properties of permutation groups be-
came known, it was observed that many other operations possess the
same properties. This gradually led to more abstract definitions of
the term group. According to the earliest of these any set of distinct
operations such that no additional operation is obtained by repeating
one of them or combining any two of them was called a group. All
the later definitions included this property, but they generally add
other conditions. These additional conditions are frequently satisfied
by the nature of the operations which are under consideration and
hence do not always require attention. This may account for the
fact that the oldest definition is still very commonly met in text-books,
notwithstanding the fact that the ablest writers on the subject aban-
doned it a long time ago.
The three additional conditions which a set of distinct operations
must satisfy in order that it becomes a group when the operations
are combined are: (1) The associative law must be satisfied; i. e., if
r, s, t represent any three operations of the set, then the three suc-
cessive operations rst must give the same result independently of the
fact whether we replace rs or st by a single operation. The operations
are, however, not generally commutative, that is, rs may be different
from sr. (2) From each of the two equations rs=^ts, sr^=st it
follows that r = t. (3) If the equation xy = z involves two opera-
tions of the set the third element of the equation must also represent
an operation in the set. It may be observed that the totality of
integers combined by multiplication obey all these conditions except
the last. Hence this totality does not form a group with respect to
multiplication, although the contrary has frequently been affirmed.*
One of the simplest instances of a group of operations is furnished
by the n different numbers which satisfy the equation a;= 1. It is
very easy to see that these numbers obey each of the four given condi-
tions when they are combined by multiplication. Hence we say that
the n roots of the equation a;= 1 form a group with respect to multi-
plication. Since all these roots are powers of a single one of them
* Among other places this error is found in the first edition of Webers
classic work on algebra, vol. 2, p. 54. It has been corrected in the second
edition of this work. Somewhat simpler definitions of the term group have
recently been given by Huntington and Moore, Bulletin of the American Mathe-
matical Society, vol. 8, p. 388.
