372 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
this group is said to be cyclic. Cyclic groups are the simplest possible
groups and they are the only ones whose operations can be completely
represented by complex numbers.
Another very simple category of groups of operations is furnished
by the totality of movements which leave a regular polygon unchanged.
For instance, a regular triangle is transformed into itself when its
plane is rotated around its center through 120° or through 240°.
Moreover, its plane may be rotated through 180° around any of its
three perpendiculars without affecting the triangle as a whole. These
five rotations together with the one which leaves ever3i;hing unchanged
(known as the identity) are all the possible movements of the plane
which transform the given triangle into itself. Hence these six move-
ments form a group, which happens to be identical with the group
formed by the six possible permutations of three things.
It is not difficult to see that a plane can have just eight movements
which do not affect the location of a given square in it. These con-
sist of the three movements around the center of the square through
90°, 180° and 270° respectively; the four movements through 180°
around the diagonals and the lines joining the middle points of opposite
sides; and the identity. This group of eight operations has exactly
the same properties as the permutation group on four letters which
transforms ah -f- cd into itself. Hence these two groups are said to
be simply isomorphic. From the standpoint of abstract groups, such
groups are said to be identical.
In general, a regular polygon of n sides is left unchanged as a
whole by just 2n movements of its plane, viz., n — 1 movements
around its center and n rotations through 180° around its lines of
symmetry, in addition to the identity. The first n — 1 movements
together with the identity clearly form a group by themselves. Such
a group within a group is known as a subgroup. This category of
groups of 2n operations is known as the system of dihedral rotation
groups or the system of the regular polygon groups. It is not difficult
to prove that each of them is generated by some two non-commutative
rotations through 180° and that no other groups have this property.
Among the non-regular polygons the rectangle with unequal sides
has perhaps the most important group. There are clearly just three
movements of the plane (besides the identity) which transform such
a rectangle into itself, viz., the rotation through 180° around the
center and the rotation around its two lines of symmetry through the
same angle. These four operations form a group which presents itself
in very many problems and is known by a number of different names.
Among these are the following: four-group, anharmonic ratio group,
axial group, quadratic group, rectangle group, etc. Since we arrive at
the identity by repeating any one of its operations, it is entirely dif-
