WHAT IS GROUP THEORY? 373
ferent from the group formed by the four roots of the equation x^ = 1.
It is easy to prove that these two groups represent all the possible types
of groups of four operations ; that is, there are only two abstract groups
of four operations. In general, the number of groups which can be
formed with n operations increases very rapidly with the number of
factors of n. When n ^ 8 or 12 the number of possible abstract
groups is 5.
Similarly, all the movements of space which transform a given solid
into itself form a group. For instance, the cube is transformed into
itself by twenty-four distinct movements. Nine around the lines
which join the middle points of opposite faces, six around those which
join the middle points of opposite edges, eight around the diagonals,
and the identity. The group formed by these twenty-four movements
is simply isomorphic with the one formed by the total number of
permutations of four things. The regular octahedron has the same
group, while the group of the regular tetrahedron is a subgroup of this
group. The icosahedron and the duodecahedron have a common group
of sixty operations. The groups of the regular solids play an impor-
tant role in the theory of transformations of space. They are treated
at considerable length in Kleins Ikosaeder as well as in many other
works.
All the preceding examples relate to groups of a finite number of
operations, or of a finite order. During recent years the applications
of groups of infinite order have been studied very extensively. As
the theory of groups of finite order had its origin in the theory of
algebraic equations, so the theory of groups of an infinite order might
be said to have had its origin in the theory of differential equations.
The rapid development of both of these theories is, however, due to the
fact that much wider applications soon presented themselves. This is
especially true of the latter. In fact, the earliest developments of the
groups of infinite order were made without any view to their applica-
tion to differential equations.
One of the simplest examples of groups of infinite order is fur-
nished by the integral numbers when they are combined with respect
to addition. The totality of the rational numbers clearly becomes a
group when they are combined with respect to either of the operations
addition or multiplication. The same remark applies evidently to all
the real numbers as well as to all the complex numbers. These
additive groups of infinite order are frequently represented by the
equation x ^^= x -]- a, where a may assume all the values of one of
the given groups. If a may assume all real values the group is said
to be continuous. When a is restricted to rational values the group
is said to be discontinuous, notwithstanding the fact that it transforms
every finite point into a point which is indefinitely close to it.
