374 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
While these examples exhibit a very close relation between con-
tinuous and discontinuous groups of infinite order, yet the methods
employed to investigate problems belonging to these groups are gen-
erally quite different. The theory of the former is mainly due to
Sophus Lie and has been developed principally with a view to the solu-
tion of differential equations. The theory of the latter has been
developed largely in connection with questions in function theory and
owes its rapid growth to the influence of Klein. A large part of Lies
results are contained in his Transf ormationsgruppen, consisting of
three large volumes, while the Modulf unctionen and Automorphe
Functionen of Klein and Fricke are the best works on the discon-
tinuous groups of infinite order.
Although the notion of group is one of the most fundamental ones
in mathematics, yet it is one which is more useful to arrive at reasons
for certain results and at connections between apparently widely
separated developments than to furnish methods for attaining these
results or developments. Its greatest service so far has been its uni-
fying influence and its usefulness in proving the possibility or the
impossibility of certain operations. In fact, it is generally conceded
that group theory had its origin in the use which Euffini and Abel made
of it to prove that the general equation of the fifth degree can not be
solved by radicals.
While it may be said to have shown its dominating influence in
nearly all parts of mathematics, not only in recent theories, but also
far towards the foundation of the subject, so that this theory can no
longer be omitted in the elementary text-books,* yet this influence
is largely a guiding influence. The bulk of mathematics is not group
theory and the main part of the work must always be accomplished by
methods to which this notion is foreign. On the other hand, it seems
safe to say that this theory is not a fad which will pass into oblivion
as rapidly as it rose into prominence. Its applications are so ex-
tensive and useful that it must always receive considerable attention.
Moreover, it presents so many difficulties that it will doubtless offer
rich results to the investigator for a long time.
* Pund, Algebra mit Einschluss der elementaren Zahlentheorie, 1899,
preface.
