34 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
academy itself, and there indeed it is that the foundations of probity
in after life are laid. For four long years — with one brief furlough the
third year — the West Point cadet seldom if ever leaves the academy at
all; collegians have long vacations; the cadet has none; youths in
training for business may spend much time with their families; the
student at West Point has no such opportunities. Again it is not
with him as with others in trade or at most educational institutions,
that he is under masters. There are professors and instructors, a
commandant and tactical officers, but as to discipline and all matters
of moral obligation, the corps of cadets governs itself. From the
cadet adjutant and captains to the corporals, and even men-in-the-
ranks on duty, each cadet is bound by the strongest of obligations
to report violations of regulations. That which would have been
called in the large school which I attended in early youth telling
tales, is here not only permissible, but an essential part of the
academic discipline. Instruction in science, tutelage in the war-
course; these go hand in hand; but far more efficient for real and
vital education is the constant presence of the spirit of self -training
and self-conquest in the molding of true character.
Other institutions outrank the military academy in perhaps all
branches of strictly scientific education; some of the refinements of
high culture are neglected, and literary excellence is ignored; but as a
school of the art of living it is incomparable, as a school of the science
of character it is unique.
At the close of the war between the states our regular army was
left in a somewhat disorganized condition. In the process of re-
organization and increase, there came into the service a very con-
siderable number of commissioned officers who had earned a sort of
right to retention in the new army by reason of exceptionally good
service as volunteeers. Many of these new appointments had been
high in rank — some even generals — who now were content to act as
mere file-closers. Some of these were political appointments, and
the most inefficient were in due time weeded out; but by far the ma-
jority were men of long experience in the field, well worthy of their
commissions.
At the time of the breaking out of the Spanish war it was these
men, appointments either from the army or from civil life, who by
the natural process of seniority had arrived at the highest rank, and
it was chiefly upon them that the responsibility rested of commanding
troops in the ensuing campaigns. The record of these men is so open
and so recent that it appears unnecessary to particularize. They made
many mistakes, but on the whole their actions were marked with
singular skill, and the results that they achieved were remarkably
successful.
