THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
383
nucleus of the international meeting.
That such a unique fusion of scholar-
ship will be productive in itself no
one can doubt; but that these scholars
are brought together and are doing
their work under the control of the
having been issued during the past few
months.
In the course of the chemical studies
the product formed by the action of
rennet on milk, about which there had
previously been considerable doubt, was
Palace of Education and Social Economy.
demand for unity in knowledge, for
interrelation and synthesis — this
thought will be the living force, the
most powerful factor of the congress,
and a tremendous influence in over-
coming the pedantic and unphilosophic
narrowness of specialists in every cor-
ner of the realm of science.
THE SCIENTIFIC BASIS OF
CHEESE MAKING.
The processes involved in the making
and curing of cheese have been the sub-
ject of some of the most noteworthy
dairy investigations which have been
made. While the subject had been
studied in a fragmentary way in this
country and in Europe for some time,
little real progress was made until
several of the American experiment
stations undertook a systematic investi-
gation of the nature and causes of the
changes involved and the chemical char-
acter of the products formed. This
has gone on steadily for eight or ten
years, and has resulted in the working
out of the scientific principles under-
lying this very ancient art. The lar-
gest amount of work has been done by
the experiment stations in Wisconsin,
New York and Canada, and the names
of Babcock, Russell, Van Slyke and
Hart are especially prominent. The
reports of progress have appeared in a
series of bulletins from these stations,
several particularly important ones
identified as paracasein. This was found
to combine with acids to form mono-
and di-acid salts, quite different in
character and in their effect upon the
appearance of the curd. In normal
cheese making the mono-acid salt is
formed, the paracasein uniting in that
proportion with the lactic acid pro-
duced in the curd by lactic-acid bac-
teria. These bacteria have invariably
been found in the milk and green cheese
in predominating numbers, but their
true function has remained until now a
mystery. They are indispensable to
the formation of paracasein monolac-
tate in cheese curd, and this compound
is found to be the starting point of the
ripening or curing process.
The first step in this appears to be
a peptic digestion of the monolactate,
the rennet ferment being the active
agent. Kennet, which was formerly
supposed to contain two enzyms, is
found to be in reality a peptic ferment
and to act in all essentials like com-
mercial pepsin in forming soluble nitro-
gen compounds. In fact, normal
cheese has been made by the substitu-
tion of commercial scale pepsin for
rennet extract. The chemical changes
produced by both rennet and pepsin are
confined mainly to the formation of
paranuclein, caseoses and peptones, only
small amounts of amids and no am-
monia being formed. The action of
these enzyms does not appear to ex-
