384
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tend to the formation of the compounds
that give the flavor to cheese. In
normal cheese tyrosin, oxyphenylethy-
lamin, arginin, histidin, lysin, giianidin,
putrescin and ammonia were found as
end products of the proteolysis. The
investigations indicate that the forma-
tion of secondary amido compounds and
ammonia are due to the action of a
biological factor, not yet determined.
The conditions affecting the chemical
changes in the ripening process have
been worked out in detail, and among
these the favorable effect of low tem-
peratures has been demonstrated. The
latter is entirely opposed to the views
heretofore held by practical cheese
makers, who have avoided too great
cold, believing it to result in a bitter,
inferior product. The advantages of
cold curing are shown by an extensive
experiment recently concluded by the
National Department of Agriculture in
cooperation with the experiment sta-
tions in Wisconsin and New York.
About 500 cheeses representing a great
variety of makes were cured at temper-
atures of 40°, 50° and 60° F., whereas
the temperature of ordinary curing
rooms runs up to 70° and often higher
in summer. The improvement in
quality of the cold-cured product was
evident in the flavor and texture and in
its higher market value. The loss of
moisture in cold curing was very much
less, resulting in diminished loss from
shrinkage; moreover, the cheese can be
held a long time at low temperatures
without impairment of quality. These
investigations will tend to revolutionize
cheese making in several respects, by
furnishing a scientific basis for it in
place of the purely empirical rules and
traditions which formerly prevailed,
and will simplify the process, rendering
possible a more uniform product of
improved quality.
SCIENTIFIC ITEMS.
We regret to record the death of
Professor Karl Alfred von Zittel, the
eminent paleontologist of the Univer-
sity of Munich ; of M. Proust, professor
of hygiene of the University of Paris
and inspector general of the Sanitary
Service; of Dr. Eugene Askenasy, hon-
orary professor of plant physiology at
the University of Heidelberg; and of
Mr. Gurdon Trumbull, the artist and
ornithologist, of Hartford, Conn.
Mr. John Morley will deliver the
principal address at the opening of the
Technical Institution, founded at Pitts-
burg by Mr. Carnegie, in the autumn
of 1904. — Sir William Ramsay, of Lon-
don, will give a course of lectures dur-
ing the summer session at the Uni-
versity of California on The Con-
stituents of the Atmosphere and the
Emanations from Radium.
Dr. G. W. Hill, of Nyack, N. Y.,
has been elected a corresponding mem-
ber in the section of astronomy of the
Paris Academy of Sciences. — Professor
George W. Hough, of Northwestern
University, has been elected an asso-
ciate member of the Royal Astronomical
Society. — The sixtieth birthday of Dr.
Robert Koch was celebrated on Decem-
ber 11. A portrait bust was unveiled
in the Institute for Infectious Diseases,
Berlin, a museum for bacteriology was
established and a Festschrift is in
press.
Mr. Shyama-ji Krishnavarma, of
India, has offered $5,000 to Oxford Uni-
versity to establish a lectureship in
honor of Herbert Spencer to be known
as the Spencer Lectureship.
The Nobel prizes, each of the value
of about $40,000, were awarded in
Christiania, on December 10. The prize
in physics was divided between M.
Becquerel and M. and Mme. Curie, of
Paris. The prize in chemistry was
awarded to Professor Arrhenius, of
Stockholm; the prize in medicine to
Dr. Finsen, of Copenhagen, and the
prize in literature to Dr. Bjornstjerne
Bjornsen, of Christiania. — The prize for
French contributions to science given
by M. Osiris through the Paris Press
Association has been divided between
Mme. Curie and M. Branly. Mme.
Curie receives 60,000 francs for her
work on radium and M. Branly 40,000
francs for his work in connection with
wireless telegraphy.
