AERIAL NAVIGATION. 387
neer, and later by Scliwarz, whose aluminum balloon proved unman-
ageable and was smashed in landing. The most ambitious attempt,
however, was that of Count Zeppelin, who built in 1900 a monster
air-ship 420 feet long and 39 feet in diameter. It was a cylinder with
paraboloid ends, but the shape was inferior and almost all the lifting
power was frittered away on a internal frame of aluminum, so that
the gasoline motor could be of only 33 horse power, and the speed
attained has variously been stated at 8 to 18 miles per hour. ISTever-
theless the design of Count Zeppelin contained many excellent fea-
tures, and a movement is now on foot in Germany to enable him to
try again, through means of a popular subscription. The mere size,
if he builds again as large, is a great element of success, for as the
cubic contents and lift increase as the cube of the dimensions, while
the weights increase in a far smaller ratio, a balloon of this great size
ought to be able to lift a very powerful motor, and to attain a speed
of 30 or more miles per hour. He has shown that the size is not be-
yond the possibility of control.
Meanwhile gasoline motors had been increasing in efficiency and
diminishing in weight. The French war department gave no sign
and it was reserved for a Brazilian, Mr. Santos Dumont, to show to
the Parisians what could be accomplished by equipping an air-ship
with a gasoline motor. The history of his triumphs is so present to
all minds that it need only be alluded to, but it may be interesting to
give some details of the sizes and arrangements of his various balloons.
His first idea seems to have been that, in order to make it manageable,
a balloon should be made as small as possible, and that it was prac-
ticable to disencumber it of many adjuncts hitherto considered indis-
pensable. Neglecting to study carefully what had been found out by
his predecessors, he had to learn by experience, and he built five bal-
loons, all navigables, before he produced in 1901 his No 6, with which
he won the Deutsch Prize, by sailing 3% miles and return in half
an hour. This balloon was 108 feet long, 20 feet in diameter and was
provided with a gasoline motor of 16 horse power which might be driven
up to 18 or 20 horse power. While the speed over the ground was 14
miles an hour, retarded as it was by a light wind, the speed through
the air was about 19 miles an hour, a small but marked advance over
any previous performance; but the result would have been still better
if the shape had been that of Colonel Eenards balloon.
Since then Mr. Santos Dumont has built four new navigable bal-
loons. His No. 7, with which he expects to compete at St. Louis in
1904, is 160 feet long and 23 feet in diameter and is to be provided
with a motor of 60 horse power. His No. 8, which was sold to parties
in New York last year. His No. 9, which is his visiting balloon, being
only 50 feet long and 18 feet in diameter and provided with a 3 horse
power motor. Its speed is only 10 miles an hour, but it is handy to
