390 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
system of combined aeroplanes and lifting screws for flying apparatus.
A good deal of experimenting has been done with power-driven
flying models. The more recent types have been actuated by twisted
rubber threads, by compressed air and by steam, and the most notable
experiments in order of date are those of Penaud, Tatin, Hargrave,
Phillips, Langley and Tatin and Eichet. The data for these (except
the first) will be found by searchers in such matters in the London
Times edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, in the article on
aeronautics. The most successful experiment was that of Professor
Langley, who obtained in 1896 three flights of about three fourths of
a mile each with steam-driven models, the apparatus alighting safely
each time and being in condition to be flown again.
The one great fact which appears from all these various model
experiments is that it requires a relatively enormous power to obtain
support on the air. Omitting the cases in which the power was prob-
ably overestimated, the weights sustained were but 30 to 55 pounds to
the horse power expended, thus comparing most unfavorably with the
weights transported by land or by water; for a locomotive can haul
about 4,000 pounds to the horse power upon a level track, and a
steamer can propel a displacement of 4,000 pounds per horse power
on the water at a speed of 14 miles an hour.
But models are, to a certain extent, misleading. They seldom fly
twice alike and they do not unfold the vicissitudes of their flight.
Moreover, the design for a small model is sometimes quite unsuited
for a large machine, just as the design for a bridge of ten feet opening
is unsuited for a span of one hundred feet.
After experimenting with models three celebrated inventors have
passed on to full-sized machines, to carry a man. They are Maxim,
Ader and Langley, and all three have been unsuccessful, simply because
their apparatus did not possess the required stability. They might
have flown had the required equilibrium and strength been duly pro-
vided.
At a cost of about $100,000, Sir Hiram Maxim built and tested in
1894 an enormous flying machine, to carry three men. It consisted
in a combination of superposed aeroplanes, portions of which bagged
under air pressure, and it was driven by two screws 17 feet 10 inches
in diameter, actuated by a steam engine of 363 horse power with steam
at 275 pounds pressure. The supporting surface was about 4,000
square feet, and the weight 8,000 pounds. The machine ran on a
track of 8-feet gauge, and was prevented from unduly rising by a
track above it of 30-feet gauge. At a speed of 36 miles per hour all
the weight was sustained by the air, and on the last test the lifting
effect became so great that the rear axle trees were doubled up and
finally one of the front wheels tore up about 100 feet of the upper
track ; when steam was shut off and the machine dropped to the ground
