392 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of lis have seen, that of the parent birds teaching their young to fly,
which demonstrates this proposition. Even with thousands of years
evolution and heredity, with adequate flying organs, the birdlings need
instruction and experience.
Safety is the all-important requisite. It is indispensable to have
a flying machine which shall be stable in the air, and to learn to master
its management. Nothing but practise, practise, practise, will gain
the latter, and upon this the school of Lilienthal and his followers is
founded.
Otto Lilienthal was a German engineer of great originality and
talent, who after making very valuable researches, assisted by his
brother, published a book in 1S89, Der Vogelflug als Grundlage der
Fliegekunst, which it is very desirable to have translated and pub-
lished for the benefit of English investigators. Then, putting his
theories to the test of practise, he built from 1891 to 1896 a number
of aeroplane machines with which he diligently trained himself in
gliding flight, using gravity for a motive power, by starting from hill-
sides. He grew exceedingly expert, and made, it is said, more than
2,000 flights, until one rueful day (August 9, 1896) he was upset and
killed by a wind gust, probably in consequence of having allowed his
apparatus to get out of order.
He was followed by Mr. Pilcher, an English marine engineer, who
slightly improved the apparatus, but who, after making many hundred
glides, was also upset and killed in October, 1899, through structural
weakness of his machine.
The basis for the equilibrium of an apparatus gliding upon the
air being that the center of gravity shall be on the same vertical line
as the center of air pressure, both Lilienthal and Pilcher reestablished
this condition by moving their bodily weight to the same extent that
the center of pressure varied through the turmoils of the wind. The
writer ventured to think this method erroneous, and proposed to re-
verse it by causing the surfaces themselves to alter their position, so
as to bring the center of pressure back vertically over the center of
gravity. He began experimentally with man-carrying gliding ma-
chines in June, 1896, and has since built six machines of five different
types, with three of which several thousand glides have been effected
without any accidents. The first was a Lilienthal machine, in order
to test the known before passing to the unknown, and this was dis-
carded some six weeks before Lilienthals sad accident.
With three of the other machines favorable results were obtained.
The best were with the two-surface machine, equipped with an
elastic rudder attachment designed by Mr. Herring, and this was de-
scribed and figured in the Aeronautical Annual for 1897.
Three years later Messrs. Wilbur and Orville Wright took up the
problem afresh and have worked independently. These gentlemen
