AERIAL NAVIGATION. 393
have placed the rudder in front, where it proves more effective than
in the rear, and have placed the operator horizontally on the machine,
thus diminishing by four fifths the resistance of the mans body from
that which obtained with their predecessors. In 1900, 1901, 1902 and
1903 they made thousands of glides without accidents and even suc-
ceeded in hovering in the air for a minute and more at a time. They
had obtained almost complete mastery over their apparatus before they
ventured to add the motor and propeller. This, in the judgment of
the present writer, is the only course of training by which others may
hope to accomplish success. It is a mistake to undertake too much at
once and to design and build a full-sized flying machine db initio, for
the motor and propeller introduce complications which had best be
avoided until in the vicissitudes of the winds bird-craft has been
learned with gravity as a motive power.
Now that an initial success has been achieved with a flying ma-
chine, we can discern some of the uses of such apparatus, and also
some of its limitations. It doubtless will require some time and a
good deal of experimenting, not devoid of danger, to develop the
machine to practical utility. Its first application will probably be
military. We can conceive how useful it might be in surveying a
field of battle, or in patrolling mountains and jungles over which
ordinary means of conveyance are difficult. In reaching otherwise
inaccessible places such as cliffs, in conveying messages, perhaps in
carrying life lines to wrecked vessels, the flying machine may prove
preferable to existing methods, and it may even carry mails in special
cases, but the useful loads carried will be very small. The machines
will eventually be fast, they will be used in sport, but they are not to
be thought of as commercial carriers. To say nothing of the danger,
the sizes must remain small and the passengers few, because the
weight will, for the same design, increase as the cube of the dimen-
sions, while the supporting surfaces will only increase as the square.
It is true that when higher speeds become safe it will require fewer
square feet of surface to carry a man, and that dimensions will actually
decrease, but this will not be enough to carry much greater extraneous
loads, such as a store of explosives or big guns to shoot them. The
power required will always be great, say something like one horse
power to every hundred pounds of weight, and hence fuel can not be
carried for long single journeys. The north pole and the interior of
Sahara may preserve their secrets a while longer.
Upon the whole, navigable balloons and flying machines will con-
stitute a great mechanical triumph for man, but they will not ma-
terially upset existing conditions as has sometimes been predicted.
Their design and performance will doubtless be improved from time
to time, and they will probably develop new uses of their own which
have not yet been thought of.
