394 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE METEIC SYSTEM: SHALL IT BE COMPULSORY?
By Professor W. LE CONTE STEVENS,
WASHINGTON AND LKE UNIVERSITY.
~^rO tribe of savages has ever been found that did not present some
-^^ evidence of the existence of individual property among them.
By force of character and personal prowess the chief acquires possessions
of increasing variety. Where compulsion can not be directly applied
resort is had to exchange, and this at once develops the need for meas-
urement of values. Local convenience suggests conventional standards
for the measurement of quantity, and custom tends to fix such stand-
ards. When a number of tribes have become aggregated into an
embryonic nation, the different standards are soon found to need
revision. From a group of temporary standards some fall into disuse
and the most convenient are retained. The readiest standard of
length is some part of the human body, such as the forearm or hand.
The cubit is thus one of the most ancient of units. The foot, the
pace, the palm, the digit, the inch as the length of the last bone of the
thumb, the yard as arm length from mouth to finger tip, all of these
are units of unknown antiquity, and accurate enough for the com-
mon needs of many who are moderately civilized to-day.
The unit of length is the primary unit to which finally all others
are referred. To derive from it units of surface and volume would
appear most natural, and it seems but a short step farther to derive
a unit of mass from the unit volume of some selected kind of matter,
such as water or earth. But it is safe to say that such a process of
derivation was unknown until within the last few centuries or even
less. For the comparison of masses scales were early developed, and
with the advance of civilization linear units derived from human
bodies of variable size gave place to metallic standards prepared and
kept by some central authority. From the buried city of Pompeii
have been taken steelyards carrying inscriptions which showed that
they had been proved by comparison with the standards kept in the
Temple of Jupiter at Eome.
In England the standard of length during the last eight or nine
centuries has been the yard, traditionally derived from the length of
the arm of King Henry I. about the year 1101. A rod or bar of this
length was kept in London, and copies of it, of various grades of crude-
ness, received the royal stamp which made them legal measures.
One third of this length was called a foot, although about one fifth
