TEE METRIC SYSTEM. 395
longer than the average masculine foot. Both in England and on the
continent legislation relating to standards of measurement was ex-
ceedingly lax, and in every important town the local magistrate de-
veloped or maintained his own municipal system of weights and meas-
ures. A comparison of nomenclature in different languages shows
that the foot has been the generally selected unit of length; and the
Latin word ponduSj meaning a weight, has been used with variations,
such as pound and pfund, to express the popular unit of weight. With
such unlimited local freedom, such imperfect means of communication,
and such scanty diffusion of education, it is not remarkable that even
so recently as a century ago the number of different units of length and
weight, called by similar names, should be so great as almost to defy
numeration. Even as late as 1850, in a Dictionary of Weights and
Measures at that time known, 5,237 of these were recorded. There
were 135 varieties of foot; 60 of the inch; 29 of the pint; 53 of the
mile, and 235 of the pound. The names foot and pound, or their
equivalents in widely different languages, have been applied to magni-
tudes, nominally constant but practically variable, during the last 2,000
years. The Olympic foot, in use among the ancient Greeks, was
traditionally derived from the foot of Hercules. To eradicate the
popular devotion to these standards, variable as they may be, can not
be accomplished in a generation. The range of variation among dif-
ferent values of the foot has been from 8.75 inches to 23.22 inches, or
over 165 per cent.
Standards of weight and measure are thus the products of the
people. The fundamental condition to be fulfilled is that a standard
shall be definite and invariable. The function of legislation is not to
create standards, but to adopt and protect them. This necessity was.
appreciated certainly as far back as the time of the Eomans, but the
recognition of it implies a degree of civilization that was not shared
with them by the peoples they had nominally conquered. In England
there is no record of such legislation prior to the thirteenth century.
By statute of King Henry III., A. D. 1266, the combined standard of
money, weight and capacity was defined by the statement that an
English penny, called a sterling, round and without any clipping, shall
weigh thirty-two wheat corns in the midst of the ear ; and twenty pence
do make an ounce, and twelve ounces one pound, and eight pounds do
make a gallon of wine, and eight gallons of wine do make a London
bushel, which is the eighth part of a quarter. This pound, thus equal
to the weight of 7,680 wheat grains, was known as the sterling or
easterling pound, and had long been in use among the nations of eastern
Europe. It is supposed to have been brought to England in the time
of the Crusades. The troy pound and the avoirdupois pound addition-
ally came into use, their origin and time of introduction being un-
