396 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
known. The pound sterling continued to be the legal standard until
1496, when it was superseded by the pound troy.
King Edward II., in 1324, provided by statute that the inch should
have the length of three barley corns, round and dry, laid end to end.
Of these inches 13 were to make one foot, and 36 of them one yard.
The length of a barley corn must have been known to be quite as
variable as that of the royal arm. Yard sticks were indeed kept in the
royal exchequer, but care in preservation seems to have been quite as
unknown as methods of precision in construction.
By the middle of the eighteenth century the influence of such men
as Sir Isaac Newton had produced a very perceptible effect on English
civilization. The Koyal Society of London, chartered in 1663 and
including all the scientific leaders of the kingdom, recognized the
chaotic condition of English weights and measures; and in 1743 a
standard yard was constructed by one of its members, George Graham,
who determined the ratio of its length to that of a pendulum beating
seconds. This pendulum length he found to be 39.14 inches. It is
most unfortunate that this length was not adopted as that of the yard,
even if its value was not known with the utmost precision. Had the
inch been defined as one fortieth part of this length, and the foot as ten
inches, not only would the foot have been made to accord with the
actual length of the average masculine foot, but a decimal division of
it would have been established. The binary division of the yard would
have been maintained, and its value would have been so nearly the
same as that of the meter, afterward adopted as an international unit
of length, that identification of the British and metric units would
have been easy. But the people were not seeking ideals. Grahams
yard was constructed for the Royal Society and there is no evidence of
its adoption by the government. The official standard until 1834 was
a brass rod made in 1570. It had been broken and mended so badly
that the joint was described to be nearly as loose as that of a pair of
tongs. A copy of Grahams yard was made by Mr. Bird for a parlia-
mentary committee in 1758 and another in 1760, but not adopted until
1834. This was known as the imperial standard yard. At the same
time a brass weight which had been in the custody of the House of
Commons since 1758 was adopted as the imperial standard troy
pound. But the avoirdupois pound was also officially recognized, the
difference between the two being that the troy pound was defined to
be 5,760 grains and the avoirdupois pound 7,000 grains. The im-
perial standard gallon was made the official standard of capacity for
both liquid and dry measure. Under certain standard conditions of
measurement this was defined to be the volume of 10 avoirdupois
pounds of water, or 337.374 cubic inches. The wine gallon of 331
cubic inches had previously been the standard of capacity since 1706.
