TEE METRIC SYSTEM. 397
The subdivisions and multiples of these standards were such as to
necessitate much confusion. The troy pound was divided into 12
ounces of 480 grains each, and the avoirdupois pound into 16 ounces
of 437.5 grains each. The troy pound is less than the avoirdupois
pound and the troy ounce greater than the avoirdupois ounce. A dis-
tinction has to be made additionally between dry ounces and fluid
ounces. Various bushels and tons of widely different values continue
in use. Although the original English standards were destroyed by
fire in 1834, they were subsequently reproduced with reasonable ac-
curacy. They are now the standards of the British empire with a total
population of nearly 400,000,000 people, among whom a multitude of
other unstandardized units of weight and measure are in current use.
The American colonies naturally employed such coins, weights and
measures as were used in the mother country, and in no two of them
were the systems alike. A decimal system of currency proposed by
Thomas Jefferson was introduced in 1792 and has continued in satis-
factory use ever since. In taking this rational step the American re-
public set an example which has subsequently been followed by a large
majority of the civilized nations of two hemispheres. Different mone- .
tary units are employed, such as the dollar, the franc and the florin,
but the great advantage of decimal multiplication and division is almost
universally recognized. The constitution authorizes congress to fix all
standards of weight and measure for the entire country, and Mr. Jef-
ferson urged the adoption of a decimal system for these as well as for
our coinage. But this plan was not followed, and now after the lapse
of a century American weights and measures are still in a state of
confusion; some of them reasonably definite, others unintelligible ex-
cept by the use of qualifying circumlocutions, and none of them con-
nected by very simple numerical relations. A copy of the English yard
was tentatively adopted in 1814 as the American linear standard. A
copy of the troy pound was in 1828 made the standard of weight for
the mint, and in 1830 the avoirdupois pound, deduced from the troy
pound, was legalized as the standard of weight for ordinary commercial
transactions. At the same time the wine gallon of 231 cubic inches
was adopted as the standard of capacity for liquids, and the Winchester
bushel of 2,150.42 cubic inches for solids. It will be observed, there-
fore, that the British gallon exceeds the American gallon by 20 per cent.
The British bushel contains 2,218.192 cubic inches, and thus exceeds
the American bushel by a little over 3 per cent. If we speak of a gal-
lon or bushel, the meaning is thus not clear without further specifica-
tion. But without reference to English units, or units that are obsolete
or infrequently employed, we have in general use in America two dif-
ferent pounds, two different ounces, two different quarts, two different
tons, two different miles, and a complex relation between linear, square
