398 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and cubic measures, and between volume and weight. This diversity
is not so confusing as it might be, because the foot and inch are per-
fectly definite in value, and a pound is generally understood to mean
an avoirdupois pound.
In 1790, the same year in which Jefferson presented to American
legislators his decimal system of coinage, weights and measures. Prince
Talleyrand in France distributed among the members of the Con-
stituent Assembly at Paris a proposal to found a new system of weights
and measures upon some natural and invariable standard, with the hope
that it might become a world system and thus displace the multitude
of complexities which constituted a serious barrier to commerce. The
cooperation of Great Britain was particularly desired, and a special
invitation was conveyed to the British parliament to send commissioners
from the Eoyal Society for the purpose of conference with a similar
commission from the French Academy of Sciences. The British gov-
ernment withheld even the courtesy of an acknowledgment. Spain,
Italy, the Netherlands, Denmark and Switzerland were represented in
the conference. The result is now too well known for special recital.
The metric system of weights and measures was born amid the throes
of the French Revolution. With the reign of terror it had nothing in
common. It was a model of simplicity and consistency, but it had two
important elements of weakness. The first of these is found in the
fact that there had been no popular demand for it. The second is that
it was based on the false assumption that an absolute and invariable
standard can be found in nature. Each of these elements is worth
consideration.
The function of legislation in connection with science is to utilize
science for the general welfare only so far as the people are prepared
to accept improvement. In a community where ignorance prevails
even sanitary science can not be enforced for the saving of human life
from pestilence, unless military despotism is substituted for local self-
government until the causes of pestilence are eradicated. Water as
clear and sparkling as the freshest dew-drop may contain in solution
tasteless poison that spreads typhoid fever or cholera among the ill-
informed skeptics who are unwilling to be taxed for their own pro-
tection. The French people knew nothing of the branch of applied
science now called metrology. They felt no evils as the outcome of
a multitude of unrelated weights and measures, incomprehensible to
most of the world. The new decimal system was easy to brand as the
fiction of doctrinaires, just as the taxpayers in a fever-stricken com-
munity denounce and resist the officers of the law who close an infected
spring of water. The logical outcome of the French revolution was
the military despotism of Napoleon, and by this means the metric sys-
tem was forced upon an unwilling people. The generation on whoni
