400 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
new German empire was the substitution of the metric system for the
many widely different local systems of metrology. The German people
are now accustomed to it, and there is no more danger of its abandon-
ment in Germany than in France. A list of forty-three countries could be
given, the governments of which have adopted the metric system. This
includes the greater part of continental Europe and of the American
continent south of the United States. It has been legalized, but not
made obligatory, in the United States and Great Britain. In Denmark
it has not yet been fully adopted, but is largely used in trade, in coinage
and in the railway system. In Austria, it has been established since
1876 ; in Norway and Sweden since 1889 ; in Turkey since 1891. In all
cases it is reported to have given great satisfaction to the commercial
classes, the chief obstacle being the ignorance and consequent opposi-
tion of the peasantry. From a carefully prepared list it is found that
the population of the countries that have adopted the metric system is
now a trifle less than 500,000,000. In 1863 it was about 140,000,000.
The number has been more than trebled in forty years. In Eussia a
decree looking to its general adoption has been prepared by the minister
of finance, approved by the administrative council, and is now awaiting
the signature of the Czar. Should this be given, the system receives
an addition of over 100,000,000 people to be put in training.
In the United States the first general legislation on the subject of
weights and measures was an act of congress in 1866, by which the use
of the metric system was made lawful, but not obligatory. No recogni-
tion of the theoretic superiority of any system is ever sufficient to induce
the people to discard the system to which they are accustomed, however
cumbrous this may be. The law of 1866 might be defined as merely
legislative politeness. In 1875 an international conference was agreed
upon by the most important nations of the world with a view to the
promotion of some common system of metrology. The result was the
establishment of the international bureau of weights and measures at
Paris, maintained jointly by the participating governments. The first
object to be attained was the preparation of a new international stand-
ard meter and a new international standard kilogram, certified copies
of which were to be furnished to each government. The preparation
of these was the work of a number of years. The copies sent to the
United States were officially adopted by Congress, April 5, 1893, as the
American national standards. The yard is hence legally defined as a
definite fraction of a meter, and the pound as a definite fraction of a
kilogram. This was an important step, but was regarded by many as
of no practical importance, the use of the British standards being still
protected by law.
The next step forward in this country was the adoption, July 12,
1894, of eight units for the measurement of electrical magnitudes.
