402 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
committee. A large number of other associations representing many
thousands of influential business men joined in the demand. Mr. Bal-
four admitted the merits of the metric system, but was unwilling that
it be made compulsory in the near future, because he feared the effect
on the small retail dealers and those who buy their goods from such
dealers. He did not consider the British public yet ready for so im-
portant a change. The result was the legalizing of the metric system
in Great Britain, but the defeat of the effort to make it compulsory.
A great number of commercial associations, large and small, were added
to the first list, and in not a single case did any body of wholesale or
retail traders oppose the compulsory adoption of the metric weights
and measures.
In 1896 a bill was introduced into congress at Washington for the
compulsory use of the metric system in all departments of the govern-
ment after July 1, 1898, and the adoption of it as the only legal system
of weights and measures in the United States after January 1, 1901.
This bill was reported favorably by the Committee on Coinage, Weights
and Measures, but it was found necessary to delay action upon it. A
second trial was made in 1903, and the committee secured the views
of prominent representatives of a large number of different professions,
trades and manufacturing interests. Of the many written communica-
tions, about nine tenths advocated the adoption of the metric system.
Of the witnesses who appeared in person before the committee, which
included 29 men of recognized standing in their respective callings,
23 were in favor and 6 of them opposed to the bill. Of the 6 op-
ponents 4 represented large manufacturing interests involving the ap-
plication of mechanical engineering, and 2 were connected with the
revenue system of the government. The chief ground of opposition
was the expense and inconvenience involved in making the change.
Vested interests thus constitute by far the greatest obstacle next to
conservatism.
Much could be written in this connection about the many considera-
tions to be weighed by a congressional committee before reaching a
final conclusion on a subject of such grave importance. The volume
of testimony to which reference , has just been made is a remarkably
strong presentation of them. Any one who is enough interested to
examine it can obtain a copy, gratuitously, by writing to the chairman
of the Committee on Coinage, Weights and Measures at Washington.
Hon. J. F. Shafroth, of Colorado, has recently introduced a bill
providing that after January 1, 1905, the metric system shall be made
compulsory in all departments of the government in the transaction of
business requiring the use of weight and measurement, except in com-
pleting the survey of the public lands, and that after January 1, 1906,.
