THE METRIC SYSTEM. 403
it shall be the legal standard of weights and measures of the United
States.
Should Mr. Shaf roths bill become a law, it is practically certain
that a similar act will be passed by the British parliament soon after-
ward. Experience in Germany, Switzerland, Austria and other Euro-
pean countries within the last thirty years affords the assurance that,
while temporary inconvenience may be expected, the transition will be
soon accomplished in all important commercial centers; that persons
of middle age and advanced years who have had no previous familiarity
with the metric system will continue to use that to which they are accus-
tomed; that the younger generation will everywhere appropriate and
appreciate it; and that the agricultural population will be the last to
become adapted to the change. Concerted opposition to the metric
system by many whose capital would suffer depreciation by change is
to be expected. The powerful influence of conservatism will be hard
to overcome, however strong may be the arguments of those having com-
mercial interests with Europe and South America. The passage of the
metric bill may be again delayed. But the United States has become
an exporting country and this necessitates two important changes. One
is the removal of unnecessary tariff barriers to foreign trade. The
other is the adoption of a system of weights and measures that is
equally suited to domestic and foreign trade. Those who have been
opposed to the recent American policy of forcible annexation of foreign
countries have the partial compensation of knowing that it gives a
strong impulse to the unification of weights and measures for the entire
world. There may be honest difference of opinion among the advocates
of the metric system regarding the advisability of assigning so early
a date as 1906 for the legal establishment of this system in our country.
Probably all of them will agree that 1905 is not too early a date for the
exclusion of the old system and adoption of the new in the different
departments of the government. The people will thus be induced to
learn the metric system practically and compare its simplicity with the
complexity of the system to which they have been accustomed. The
opposition to it hitherto has come chiefly from those who have no prac-
tical acquaintance with it. They are quite excusable for thinking best
to let well enough alone, just as the majority of Englishmen would
object to substituting our simple American system of decimal currency
for their cumbrous system of farthings, pence, shillings, pounds, crowns
and guineas. It is well to remember, moreover, that existing conditions
in England and America are quite different from those under which
Bismarck introduced the metric system into the newly formed German
empire. From the Atlantic to the Pacific, from Mexico to the Arctic
circle, there is but a single system of weights and measures, which has
some few good features with its many bad ones, and which is satis-
