404 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
factory to most of those who use it. Change in our system of metrol-
ogy is not needed for political unification. Any legal enactment im-
posing a sudden change will be apt to arouse enough popular opposition
to ensure its repeal before the people have had a fair chance to give an
impartial test to the new system. A probation period of ten years in
the government departments might perhaps be better than one year;
or possibly it might be wiser at present to avoid specifying the length
of any probation period. It would be better for the demand to come
from the people at the end of thirty years than for a repeal of the law
to be forced after it has been in operation only a short time.
Much has been said about the superiority of a binary to a decimal
system. It is admitted that the decimal system is better for purposes
of computation, but alleged that in the ordinary practical affairs of life
people divide into halves and quarters more readily than into tenths.
There can be no objection to the simultaneous application of both
methods, so far as convenience may suggest. A binary system does
not lend itself to decimal notation, while a decimal system does admit
of limited, but amply sufficient, binary subdivision. This has been
abundantly shown in the use of American money. Half-dollars and
quarter-dollars, as divisions, are entirely satisfactory to all advocates of
a decimal system. Our fathers coined eighth-dollars and sixteenth-
dollars also, but nobody seemed to want them. Half-meters and
quarter-meters as linear divisions are quite as good as half-dollars and
quarter-dollars. Our idea of a quarter of a dollar is no less definite if
it be called twenty-five cents. In like manner, no one can object to
calling twenty-five centimeters either a quarter of a meter or a metric
foot, agreeing in length with the human foot. That decimal subdivi-
sion is quite as natural as binary subdivision is shown by the universal
American tendency to express profits and losses as percentages. If
there is any real superiority in binary subdivision all dividends should
be expressed in thirty-seconds, or sixty-fourths, or hundred-and-twenty-
eighths.
It has been urged that a duodecimal system is better than either a
binary or a decimal system. This may be granted, but its introduction
would involve practical difficulties much greater than any connected
with the general adoption of the metric system, including the abolition
of the British system. Its consideration has no more practical impor-
tance than a proposition to substitute Volapuk for the English language.
The late Sir Joseph Whitworth expressed the opinion that the adop-
tion of the metric system would be easy if its advocates would only
lengthen the meter from 39.37 to 40 inches. This would make the
inch rather than the meter our unit of length. Such a change would
on many accounts be exceedingly desirable. But its consideration
could be only the result of compromise in an international conference
