THE NEW WEST POINT. 37
additional academic accommodations; the new chapel — decidedly the
most ornate and conspicuous of the new buildings — lifted upon a spur
of the hills overlooking the plain. The barracks also will be kept, with
material additions and changes needed for the housing of the increased
number of cadets. To the north of the Cullum Memorial and balan-
cing the officers mess-hall will be located a building for use as bach-
elors quarters, of the same Georgian style of architecture.
The enmity of styles, as far as possible, will be propitiated, one
blending with the other, without actually mingling, masses of foliage
serving to keep a measure of peace between them. Where the hotel
now stands it is proposed to erect the quarters of the superintendent,
the present battle monument duplicated on the right of what may be
termed the major axis of the scenic system. The avenue now exist-
ing vistas upon the center of academic life, while other avenues will
be made to radiate from here, across the plain, sweeping down the
hillside.
The approach to the academy will probably be completely altered;
the landing either from railway or boats being made not only com-
modious but imposing. Access to the high level will be as now by
means of a gently winding ramp, while a large passenger elevator will
conduct to a public square, to the restaurant and hotel; these being
located where they vsdll be apart from the real activities of either
academic or military life, and yet conducing more readily to the con-
venience and comfort of visitors. From the south, the post will be
approached through elaborate arched gateways, with appropriate towers,
the strongest emphasis being placed upon this prime avenue, while be-
tween the two sections of the academy will be a monumental arch, to be
adorned with statues and memorials.
As seen from the river the riding-hall, greatly enlarged, Avill
be the most imposing of structures, rising as it will from the perpen-
dicular crags, growing out of them and seeming a part of them, but-
tressed on front and flank and crowned with a line of battlements.
Above will rise the fine elevation of the post headquarters, which will
form also a striking background from the southern approach.
The dominant style of the construction will be the Gothic, not
American architecture as it has grown pliant and flexible from the
studiously archeological, but suggestive of the ascendant impulses of
formality of former British models. The material will be generally
stone, treated with greater or less elaboration, according to the value
pictorially of the buildings, due harmony being preserved or achieved
by judicious alterations in effect. Several of the minor structures will
be of red brick in Flemish bond, trimmed with stone.
Perhaps the most difficult problem was that of the judicious en-
largement of the cadet barracks, to accommodate double or more the
