4o6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE CONSEEVATION OP ENEEGY IN THOSE OF
ADVANCING YEAES. II.
By J. MADISON TAYLOR, A.M., M.D.,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
Developmental Processes in Ageing Tissues; Physiology of Decadence.
Senile Involution.
THE brevity of this communication does not warrant a discussion
of senility from the standpoint of the physician, but rather a
presentation of such facts to the person who is growing old as may
prove helpful and suggestive in postponing the more serious results
of advancing years. It is, however, important to glance at the manner
and processes by which the inevitable end is reached. The clinical
picture of approaching death is divided by Tessier into those structural
degenerations involving, first, the heart and blood vessels; second, the
lungs; third, the kidneys; fourth, the digestive organs, and fifth, the
brain. First of the heart, which is now recognized to be the organ
which plays the chief part in the ending of life. Before we knew
much about the subject it was natural to infer that the heart was chiefly
at fault and the common phrase was often used of death by heart
failure, one which we now know to be scientifically correct but afore-
time vaguely employed. Then discoveries were made that the arteries
in the aged were nearly always diseased, and medical thinkers went so
far as to assert that all instances of death in old age resulted from the
hardening of the arteries. It is true that this is an accompanying
phenomenon in most instances, and perhaps in all, but it is recognized
to be not the most potent factor in a certain large proportion.
What is to be said here is not meant for a guide to the aged individ-
ual by which he may be encouraged to form independent judgments for
himself, but rather to act as items of useful information, through which
he can better interpret the statements and appreciate the importance of
following the directions of his physician.
The heart of a healthy old person has become fatigued in its structure
through a decadence of its nerve supply. The pulse is rather quicker
than during middle life; it is more or less irregular and becomes in-
creasingly so. In a healthy heart there is, however, a regular irregularity ;
a normal sequence of alterations in the rhythm and force which is only
significant when studied by the trained physician. The phenomenon
which is one of the most constant and inevitable, as the effects of age
