THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 407
begin to make themselves felt, is shortness of breath on exertion. This
has to do more with faults in the action of the circulation and the vaso-
motor nerves than in the lungs. The old man finds himself distressed
in his breathing while undergoing a degree of exertion which aforetime
would produce no noticeable effects. The heart muscle is old, relaxed
and softened and contracts imperfectly and readily shows exhaustion.
This need not produce alarm, but if the condition rapidly increases
it may be significant of some important change and should be referred
to the medical adviser. In fact, it can not be repeated too often that
the more constantly the aged person remains under observation of a
wise physician, the more safely can it be promised that he will live
happily and long. There is a symptom which is most terrifying and
frequently occurs in the aged, and that is a sudden agonizing chest
pain, during which the sufferer, unless he be of unusual mental equi-
poise, feels that he shall instantly die. This may come on suddenly
without previous warning and requires the best medical advice, but it
almost always passes and may recur many times and is capable of much
relief. It may be a symptom of chronic myocardial degeneration.
The lungs also, in most instances, share in the process of death.
The changes which occur in the aged lung are degenerative and
need have nothing to do with any previously disordered processes in
them. Again it may happen that certain changes common in old age
take place and prove to be most distressing; the chief of these are
asthma, chronic pneumonia and bronchitis. Pneumonia in the aged is a
very serious affection, and it is stated that the largest number of deaths
in old people are caused, or accompanied by, acute broncho-pneumonia.
The digestive organs sometimes give away while the rest of the or-
ganism remains in fairly good condition. Sir William Thomson has
written most charmingly upon the digestive disorders of elderly folk,
and it would be well for every old person to read his suggestive essays.
Unless care is observed in regulating the diet (and the chief point here
is rather a reduction in the amount than particularizing as to the items
of food taken), distressing phenomena will constantly arise. Fortu-
nately this is easily avoided, although not so readily cured. Sir
William Thomson makes the assertion that the disappearance of the
teeth is a plain indication of the return to a second childhood, and there-
fore the food should be of such a character as may not require the
assistance of the teeth in mastication. He advises most wisely, although
his recommendation can not be taken literally, that the teeth be
not replaced by artificial ones, for thereby is a peril lest more food be
taken than the organism can dispose of. The fact that the various
organs concerned in the elaboration of food share very early in the
degenerative changes of age makes it clear that the character of the
food taken should be so simple in kind that no great strain would be
