4o8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
placed upon these atrophied organs. The gastric juice is secreted in less
quantity, so of the pancreatic, the biliary and the intestinal juices.
The lessened quantity of bile makes for constipation and the formation
of gall-stones and impairs absorption, and assimilation is thus inter-
fered with. The kidneys, the chief source of elimination of a most
elaborate series of poisons, become enfeebled in their action and hence
should not be overtaxed by either the quantity or the quality of the
work they are called upon to perform. Finally the brain may be the
part which gives way most prominently, and then we may find
hemorrhages into its structure, a softening begins, and alteration in
mentality which point the way to more remote and serious changes.
The physiology of old age may be described briefly as a progressive
diminution in all the functional activities. There is in the life of
every normal individual a constant and proportional relationship
between the development of parts and tissues and the natural progress
toward dissolution. The function which is in most immediate relation-
ship to the reparative power of the cells is the one which will be first
affected, so soon as old age begins. The four particular acts of
nutrition may be succinctly described as : first, contact of the cell with
the nutritive elements; second, the phenomena by which sustenance is
drawn from this material, namely, assimilation; third, the changes
through which the assimilated products pass, namely, dissimilation;
and fourth, the phenomena of the ejectment of the non-assimilated
substances. In senescence the first change to be noted in these essential
steps in nutrition is to be seen in assimilation. The reparative power
of the cells is lessened and the elements of repair tend to be furnished
in smaller quantities and soon pass beyond the power of maintaining
cellular integrity. Next, there is a diminishing cell resistance leading
to atrophy and xerosis. Xerosis (Tessier) is the normal hardening of
the tissues in contradistinction to the abnormal sclerosis. With diminu-
tion in the power of assimilation there will appear modifications in the
normal processes of dissimilation. The difficulties which the cell finds in
securing the necessary pabulum tends toward inertia in the phenomena
of metabolism. Next the products of incomplete oxidation accumulate,
are made difficult to get rid of ; they are more damaging to the integrity
of the structure of the organ, and the tissues undergoing normal
senescence are in constant peril of suffering disease changes. It is
the presence of these toxins which places the physiologic processes of
senility close to the line of pathology with incomplete oxidation; they
tend to accumulate, to infiltrate and to work harm. Chemical changes
are less active then, and more poisons form than can be thrown off;
gout, rheumatism and their simulants arise. The standards for com-
parison in the phenomena of waste and repair are not to be formulated.
The physician can not know, in the light of present knowledge, just
