THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 409
wlien the equilibrium is lost and when the subject under observation
has passed the point where senilization has gone through several
changes, and proceeds rapidly, and can not be checked.
Life will flow on with normal energy so long as the noble elements,
the more highly differentiated cells, are in excess both in processes and
activity. The noble elements are those cells which take upon them-
selves the preponderating role in accomplishing the function of an
organ, in contradistinction to those which play but a secondary part
as forming the mechanical support of the organ. Since these can
not be replaced in due proportion, function will be interfered with
and senescence will begin. Connective tissue now tends to fill all
gaps and gradually to invade the tissues, and scleroses will arise,
placing obstacles in the way of functional discharge; this constitutes
disease. Inasmuch as the individual is merely an aggregation of
special organs adapted to a common existence, the increasing deteriora-
tion of these functional activities leads toward gradual deterioration
of the individual himself, who will gently fade away out of existence
(Tessier).
The progress of atrophic changes is not regular, either in the general
system or in the special organ. All the elements of the mass do not
live to the same age. The constituent elements undergo a perpetual
restoration, the older disappearing and being replaced by others which
have been long maintained in a state of less differentiation, hence of
less specialization. As the completed elements disappear the younger
ones are matured, hence the compensation is established between
atrophy and repair. This movement of partial renovation in tissues is
a picture in little of life, the birth of each element, its functional life,
senility and death. The explanation of why irregularity should occur
in the nutritive activities in the tissues of each organism, and equally
in the whole of some organisms, causing individual and constitutional
variations, is not so clear. Chemical processes, presumably similar
to the small modifications in the cellular arrangements, and the forces
that work, must be recognized. In time we may — indeed we must —
know what these dynamic features are; then we shall have reached the
first step in controlling these variations from a sound working basis.
It is certain that these dynamic modifications can not progress indefi-
nitely without producing tangible modifications and alterations in mo-
lecular activities; this constitutes disease. Atrophy is an anatomical
phase of senility, whose irregular distribution is explained by the
inequality of cellular existence, and this is again dependent upon the
initial impulse of contraction and upon varying states in the medium,
and this by the introduction into the tissues of matters foreign to its
normal structure. When this occurs it is degeneration. The study
of pathologic changes, by which most of the observations have been
