4IO POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
made upon the conditions governing senile processes, induces a tendency
to start from wrong premises. It is important that these researches
should be strongly modified by a comparison between normal and
physiologic changes, otherwise right conclusions are obscured. This
practical point must never be lost sight of by observers and clinicians
in the study of the individual and his ailments. In the study of the
processes of the individual the ailments are too frequently the only
conditions considered and the normal changes overlooked.
Clinicians recognize what they call diatheses. A diathesis is a tend-
ency toward disease, and many of these can be recognized in their in-
cipience and differentiated in such manner that preventive measures can
be employed and earlier changes limited and improved. Disease is
the domain of pathology, the study of abnormal conditions induced by
changes outside the realm of individual processes. The diathesis gives
evidence of a lessened coefficient of resistance, a lowering in noble
activities and exhaustion of the powers of repair. This is probably
because the power of attraction is not the same in each person and is of
variable intensity. Protoplasm has not the same proportions in its
composition, hence variations arise in the phases of its evolution.
Assuming then the variability in chemic structure, and hence a variable
power of attraction in protoplasm, hence, also in the coefficient of re-
sistance, these thoughts will aid in explaining congenital and queer
constitutional peculiarities, and often inexplicable differences in races,
families and individuals. It is a matter of common observation that
in some families senile changes occur much more early than in others,
and yet there may be little of degenerative change apparent or probable
because of the vigor of the individual. As the gradual steps of growth
lead to development, so does the phase of existence called senescence
merge insidiously toward the ending called death, through a progressive
and insensible diminution in all the organic activities. Death should
be regarded as a normal function. Ordinarily it is free from pain
and hence should be free from sadness.
Obesity.
Excessive fatness, or polysarcia, is not confined to advancing years,
it is observed at all ages; but the quality of the accumulation in early
years differs from that seen in late middle life. During the
earlier years excessive gain in weight is usually the product of full
digestive capacity with a somewhat lessened eliminative power and can
be met by reduction in diet and active exercises, and is, as a rule, con-
trollable. With that form of obesity which is not altogether man-
ageable in young people or those on the hither side of middle life we
have nothing to do, except in so far as we should discuss this condition
and its progress when encountered in later years. Again in women
