THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 411
more particularly, there is oftentimes a sudden gain in weight, some-
times to a very annoying and disabling degree, following the change
of life. This is an abnormality, and is sometimes based upon patho-
logic changes in the thyroid gland analogous to myxedema. In men
at about the same relative period an enormous gain in weight occa-
sionally arises and is a serious annoyance and anxiety. A few points in
regard to the control and reduction of this warrant discussion, although
they need not be elaborated. Where this gain in weight seems to be free
from any abnormality except difficulties in the elimination or utilization
of fat, it is proper to initiate active treatment by careful diet accord-
ing to the methods of Banting, Ebstien, Oertel, along with specially
directed exercises. In persons who are obviously not vigorous, as in
those instances where marked anemia is present, there should be a care-
ful search for evidences of disease beginning, or established, and treat-
ment for the condition outlined accordingly. Von Noorden emphasizes
the necessity of being on our guard in treating conditions of obesity
which arise in women from fifty to sixty years of age. The greatest
precautions must be used in dealing with these, because under almost
any regime they will lose strength, frequently to an alarming extent,
and what is more fail to regain it. The same statement holds good, to
a less degree, in men of the same age. It would be interesting to
formulate the different kinds and degrees of obesity and the pathologic
changes which often accompany this state, forming it may be the cause
on which the obesity arises, or again the results, direct or indirect, of
the excessive weight. It is enough for our purpose here to offer some
directions as to how this objectionable state may be relieved without
producing harm. First, it is necessary to bear in mind that under the
direct advice and continued attention of the physician is the only safe
mode of procedure. Where there is found, as often happens, marked
weakness of the heart and circulation the greatest care must be observed,
and measures should be adopted having direct regard for the possi-
bilities of the individual and varied from time to time under intelli-
gent supervision. It is always a dangerous thing for persons to under-
take their own treatment for obesity if they make use of drugs, because
great harm can be done ; it may be irretrievable. There is no objection,
however, to moderating the diet, increasing exercise, and, above all, to
employing systematized physical training for the purpose of improving
elasticity in all the tissues. It is only safe to do so under medical
advice. Oertel in 1885 and after, has done work which marks an
epoch. The principle upon which he proceeds is that even where
there is found to be pronounced weakness of the heart muscle, and
other disturbances in circulation, these may be met by steadily in-
creasing the amount of physical work done, especially by hill climb-
ing. This walking up slopes has the merit of bringing out skin
