412 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
moisture and taxing the respiratory capacity much more promptly
and completely and is more capable of regulation than any other form
of exertion, at least any which would be admissible. It is only pos-
sible for people relatively young or strong to begin in this way. Our
subject is polysarcia in people of advancing years, and hence greater
caution must be exercised in outlining activities than for younger folk.
The general principles of exercises given at the end of this paper need
not be repeated here, but should be read in connection with the
measures now to be outlined. In over-stoutness of late middle life,
accompanied by good health, it is essential to use first fairly active
increasing extensor movements with elasticizing measures, active and
passive stretchings, loosening up of the hip joints particularly, and
above all, thorough drill in regaining proper attitudes. This should
be followed by systematic, accurate training in breathing till a normal
capacity is attained, almost never found in stout people unless acquired
through teaching. In a paper elsewhere I have elaborated these
thoughts {Internat. Med. Magazine, July, 1901).
When we have to do with the fat anemic person vastly more care
must be used. The heart in these cases is likely to be infiltrated by
fat and the muscular fibers clogged and inelastic, and must be taught
slowly to regain their contractile vigor. At first, climbing stairs under
direction is about as much as can be attempted, and any house will
serve, merely regulating the number of steps walked up and down
(both being of benefit) and the rate of speed carefully specified.
Tall office buildings serve admirably for the purpose. Polysarcia
is such a disabling condition that it is well worth prolonged remedial
efforts. Success is possible, and indeed always probable, within
limitations. The unaided efforts of the patient can readily lead
to harm, sometimes calamity. There is one essential rule in deal-
ing with the cases under consideration, and that is the time for
treatment can not be measured by weeks, should not be measured
by months and can only safely and satisfactorily be measured
by years. One instance will help to illustrate my point. I had a
gentleman under my care of sixty-one years of age, who had learned
to ride a bicycle before meeting me and found it impossible to use this
much because of the distress it produced in breathing. I saw him only
rarely at intervals of months, and advised him by letter chiefly in con-
nection with his own physician. He was advised to adopt the rule of
riding regularly but briefly on the level roads of his own country place.
After some months these short excursions produced no distress. In a
years time he was able to start out upon the open roads, but was com-
pelled to dismount at every small rise of grade. In another year he
was able to ride up moderate grades on a good road. At the end of
the second year he was riding with comfort and pleasure. At the end
