TEE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 413
of the third year he rode all about the country where the roads
were good and for hours at a time. The loss in weight scarcely showed
in the first two years, but after that it was sufficiently great to be satis-
factory. At the age of seventy-six he feels himself to be all of twenty
years younger than when he began.
The Menopause.
There is a time about the middle of the life of women which is
called the critical period and is supposed to be fraught with many
dangers and grave disturbances. This period of the climacteric has
been grossly exaggerated, and it is by no means necessary to look for-
ward with dread to the time when menstruation ceases. Man
reaches the period of highest development at forty-one years, and
woman at thirty-nine. The following seven to ten years may
be called the age or epoch of invigoration in both the sexes. The
tissues have then become most stable and the nutrition of the body
is at its best. It is one of the epochs of development and naturally
is accompanied by certain characteristic features. In man these epochs
are marked as follows : Dentition, pubescence and the climacteric of
age. These are all practically developmental phases, although the last
is usually accompanied by degenerative changes in one or another vital
organ by which resistance in the tissues is lessened, allowing relatively
slight influences finally to cause death. In woman there is generally
recognized another, styled the change of life, or menopause. Modern
investigations seem to demonstrate beyond a doubt that this change of
life is merely a conservative process of nature to provide for a higher
and more stable phase of existence, an economic lopping off of a function
no longer needed, preparing the individual for different forms of
activity, but is in no sense pathologic. It is not sexual or physical
decrepitude, but belongs to the age of invigoration, marking the
fullness of the bodily and mental powers. There are rather more
decided changes in the blood-making and blood-elaborating organs in
women, toward the end of life, than in men. Mans greater activity
enables him to escape this contrast, because as a rule he has called more
upon his motor machinery in using up injested and assimilated
material. The life of woman leads her to become more impressionable
and to watch over her menstrual days, think of them, make allowances
for the exigencies which may arise at such times, and to expect various
disturbances and discomforts. If her mind becomes fixed upon some
one small ailment or other, especially connected with this function,
there is almost an inevitable hyperconsciousness and a continuance or
an exaggerated degree of attention which is practically hysterical even
in the best of women. Such disturbances as do arise about the time of
the menopause are largely due to a normal failure of the organism to
