TEE PRUSSIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE. 415
THE EOYAL PEUSSIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE.
BERLIN. I.*
By EDWARD F. WILLIAMS,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
History of the Academy from its founding hy Leibniz and the Elector
of Brandenburg in 1700 to the death of Frederich William I,
in 17JfO.
rriHE history of the Eoyal Prussian Academy of Science is in reality
-*- the history of the development of science in Prussia, one may say
throughout the territory covered by the present German empire.
Founded July 11, 1700, by the Elector Frederick III. of Brandenburg
at the solicitation of his wife Sophie Charlotte and of Leibniz, it not
only gave an impulse to scientific research and scholarly investigation
1:1 every department of learning in Berlin and throughout Prussia, but
became the model after which other societies with similar aims in the
German-speaking world were brought into existence. Not quite as old
as the French Academy nor as the Royal Society of Great Britain, nor
as the Lincei in Rome, it has done as good work as any of them and
exerted quite as wide an influence.
The period embraced in its life covers the period of the reconstruc-
tion of the German university and its growth from the unsatisfactory
institution of the first quarter of the eighteenth century to its present
commanding position in the world of learning. It covers the period
in which the gymnasia were remodeled and the foundations laid of that
system of common schools (Volksschule) for which Germany is now
famous. It covers also the period of French oppression, of the re-
awakening of the national spirit and of the contests which secured
political freedom and a united German empire.
In 1694 the Elector Frederick founded the University of Halle,
not long after, the Medical Society of Berlin and, in 1696, the Acad-
emy of Arts. He assumed the rank of king on January 18, 1701.
He inherited a love of poetry and of learning from his father, the
Great Elector, who refounded the universities of Konigsberg and
Frankfurt and brought the University of Duisberg into existence. He
had planned also a universal university at Brandenburg to be free to
* For the facts presented in this article the writer is chiefly indebted to
Professor Adolf Harnacks masterly history of the academy in four quarto
volumes, although other sources of information have not been overlooked.
