4i6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
all the world, an asylum for all students of science and art, and to be
undisturbed even by war.
Leibniz (1646-1716), though unwilling to break with the old learn-
ing which the universities cherished, had breathed the breath of the
new learning which came in with the Eenaissance and the Eeforma-
tion. Holding fast to all that was valuable in the traditions of the
past, he early became an ardent advocate of the new methods of study
which science, even in its beginnings, introduced, and through the
founding of academies in the great capitals of Europe sought to unite
the tendencies of the time with the protestant spirit of research and
criticism. A many-sided man, philosopher, theologian, jurist, poli-
tician, philologist, physicist, an acute observer, fond of experiment,
with a constructive mind, restless in his eagerness for knowledge, he
did more than any man of his era to forward the study of nature and
to emphasize its unity. Through the establishment of an academy in
Germany under royal patronage he thought he could demonstrate the
harmony of the world in study and research and realize the unity of
human society. His first proposal for a society for the study of science
was made in 1667 when he was but twenty-one years old, his last only
seventeen days before his death. He suggested and furthered, so far
ar. he could, the union of all the learned societies of Europe, a plan
which has been partially realized in our own time. He lived in Hann-
over, where he made himself useful to the Brunswick princes as a
historian, although he did not possess their complete confidence as a
politician. Having observed the working of the French Academy
when on a visit to Paris in 1675, the following year he proposed a
German academy somewhat on its model, and even named the forty-
eight men who were to compose it. He proposed later, as protestants
seemed indifferent to his project, that the Pope divide the fields of
learning among the catholic orders, assigning the study of nature to
the Benedictines and Cistercians, that of law to the Dominicans and
the Jesuits, that of language to other orders, and to the Franciscans
the care of souls. If the princes of the House of Brunswick failed to
give him their entire confidence, he had an unfailing friend in the
Princess Sophie (1630-1714), daughter of Frederick V. of the Pala-
tinate, and mother of George I. of England. It was through her
daughter, Sophie Charlotte, who married the elector of Brandenburg
September 28, 1684, and who had been educated under the eye of
Leibniz, that he realized at last his hope of founding an academy in
Berlin. Of this woman Frederick the Great said she had both the
spirit of society and of true culture, and that she brought the love
of science and the arts into Prussia. She was a gifted, charming
woman, and so eager for knowledge that even Leibniz was wont to say
of her that she was never satisfied with reasons which were sufficient
for others, she must know the why of the why. Although Leibniz
