41 8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
4
For political reasons, probably, there was no regular correspondence
until 1697. Meanwhile Leibniz had interested many scholars in his
project, among them Count von Dunckelmann, in whose parlors scien-
tific meetings had been held in Berlin for ten years. Jabloniski, a
Bohemian by birth, court preacher in Berlin, a man of great knowledge
and natural ability, was one of the most efficient aids which Leibniz
had in bringing the academy into existence. Much had been said
about establishing an observatory in the Prussian capital. The wife
of the elector exerted all her influence in favor of it as early as 1697.
From this time on the clearly formed plans for an academy with
which the observatory should be connected were carefully discussed.
In a letter to the Princess Charlotte, dated December 19, 1697, Leibniz
writes that he has been invited to Berlin, the cradle of the arts and
sciences, where Solomon and the Queen of Sheba are. While on a
long visit in Hannover during the summer of 1698 the princess had
opportunity to discuss with Leibniz, unhindered, their plans for an
academy and scientific institute in Berlin. Jabloniski was sent to
Hannover by the elector to see Leibniz and returned to Berlin greatly
impressed with his ability, and urged the elector to invite him to the
city. This was done through the Princess Charlotte. For more than
a year little progress in founding the academy was made, though the
leading scholars of Berlin desired it. Means for its support were
wanting. Aid came from an unexpected source. Professor Erhard
Weigel, of Jena, was anxious to correct the calendar, and Leibniz at
once saw that if this corrected calendar were made a monopoly the cost
of an academy could be paid out of the profits on its sale. Messrs.
Eabener, Curveau and Jabloniski memorialized the elector, the mo-
nopoly was granted and an order for the formation of an academy, with
which the observatory was united, was issued on the day the memorial
was presented. Leibniz, who had recently been made a member of the
French Academy, was appointed its president. On January 18, 1701,
Prussia became a kingdom and the elector a king.
The academy began its life under favorable circumstances. Al-
though the means of support were inadequate, the ideas of the men
who formed it were large and comprehensive. The plans then made,
visionary as they seemed to some, have since been fully realized. Coun-
cilor Albinus, Chauvin, Dr. Jaegewitz, Naudi, the mathematician,
Chief Engineer Baer, Privy Councilors Eabener and Cuneau, and
Jabloniski, the court preacher, made up the eight who with Leibniz
formed it. They were all imbued with the spirit and the ideas of the
president. The academy was to be a place where the study of physics,
chemistry, astronomy, geometry, mechanics, optics, algebra and similar
useful subjects should be furthered. Not all of these branches of study
were to be pushed at once, no one of them until men eminent in each
