THE PRUSSIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE. 419
of them could be brought to Berlin and elected to membership in the
academy. The statutes of the academy were framed after those of the
French Academy and the Royal Society of Great Britain. Leibniz was
to live in Hannover, but to come to Berlin when necessary and to have
the expenses of the journey paid. The astronomer Kirch alone was to
receive a salary. Kirch moved from Guben to Berlin, took up his
abode in the second story of the building which the government had
furnished for an observatory, brought with him his own instruments,
which were used in common with those the government owned, and
trusted to the income from a calendar, which he himself was to make,
for his support. The income from this source was estimated at about
$1,875 and the expense for the president, the astronomer, his assistant,
a secretary who should look after the business of the academy, a serv-
ant, instruments, books, experiments, printing, correspondence, medals
and miscellanies, at a trifle more. Perhaps no great enterprise has
ever been undertaken more confidently on the part of its leaders with
such small pecuniary resources at its command. The elector wished
provision made for the teaching and improving of the German lan-
guage. To him should be given the credit of forming the philological-
historical department of the academy. To his wife belongs the credit
of establishing its astronomical department, and to Leibniz of its sci-
entific departments. It was gravely proposed by Leibniz that the
academy should be also a missionary institution and should send the
gospel to the heathen. On this ground the churches might be asked
to contribute to its support. He would have it look after the sanitary
condition of the homes of the people, and the character of their food.
He had many plans for an increased income, but none of them proved
effective. Even the calendar monopoly met with opposition from
booksellers and was obtained with some difficulty. The letters actually
forming the academy were dated July 11, 1700, the electors birthday,
and by them its members were required to give careful attention to the
German language and history, and especially to the political and ecclesi-
astical history of Brandenburg. The elector made himself the protector
of the academy, but directed it to govern itself through a council of its
own members. This council was to select and receive new members,
subject to his approval. Three classes were organized, one for the study
of physics and mathematics, another for the study of the German lan-
guage, and a third for the study of literature. No provision was made
for the study of philosophy, because Leibniz thought its principles un-
settled, and that its interests would be best promoted by considering
it in connection with other subjects. The members were divided into
ordinary, corresponding, home and foreign, and honorary members.
John Theodore Jabloniski, an older brother of the court preacher, was
made secretary, and at the same time directed to perform the duties
