420
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
of archivist, cashier, curator of the museum, overseer of matters per-
taining to the publishing and sale of the calendar, and to act as a
reporter for Leibniz. Many of the difficulties connected with the acad-
emy during its earlier years grew out of the fact that the two Jablon-
iskis were so intimately concerned with its management. Yet the
secretary was a man of rare learning, and in many ways well adapted
1 to his position. His brother was
■ a member of the academy for
forty-one years, was deeply inter-
ested in it, and for some years
after the death of Leibniz was
the means of keeping it alive.
During the first decade of its
existence the academy did very
little. Some of its members were
jealous of Leibniz, but he paid
no attention to this fact, and did
his work as if nothing had hap-
pened. The king wanted the acad-
emy to add to the glory of his
reign, but would furnish no means
other than those which came
from the calendar monopoly for
its support. Kirch and his wife,
who was his efficient aid, made
the calendar accurate and trust-
worthy and gave what time they
could to astronomical study.
Kirchs astronomical work was
confined to the study of comets,
sunspots and variable stars. But
the income of the academy only
just kept it alive.
The French language was used in the discussions and reports.
Indeed, at this time the French population of Berlin contained within
its ranks a larger number of distinguished men than the German. It
is not surprising, therefore, that so many of the leading members of the
academy were for so many years of French origin. The progressive
element of the city was French. Their preachers and authors were the
only men in Berlin who could meet the Benedictine church historians
on their own ground. The German element was well represented by
John Leonard Frisch, director of the Gray Cloister Gymnasium, who
did more work for the academy during his connection with it than any
House of Leibniz at Hannover.
