THE PRUSSIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE.
421
one else. He found time to compose papers on the silk manufacture
of Berlin, on insects and parasites, which were illustrated with his own
drawings, and to begin an extensive work on birds. He was a student
of the Slavic languages, and through his Latin dictionary, which one
of the Grimms said would not grow old, contributed ver} much to
German lexicography. As a student of chemistry he greatly improved
the famous Berlin blues. In 1703 there were 22 members of the
academy residing in Berlin, 19 in 1707, 20 in 1711, and at this time
there were 32 foreign members. During the sixteen years which he
led the academy, Leibniz wrote between five and six hundred letters on
its behalf. This was in addition to the papers he contribiited to its
sessions and to the work he did on the two or three volumes it published.
The death of the queen, on Feb-
ruary 10, 1705, was a serious loss
to the academy as well as to Leib-
niz, Work on the building to be
used as an observatory proceeded
so slowly that the astronomer
labored at a great disadvantage.
Still he discovered a comet and
made some valuable observations.
He died after ten years service
and was succeeded by his assistant,
John Henry Hoffmann, who was
followed by the younger Kirch,
who endeavored to carry forward
and greatly extend his fathers
work. But the academy was
cramped through lack of means.
These were so small that it could
only publish a brief report of an
eclipse of the sun, and of a few
meteorological observations made in Belgrade by Schutze. Fifty
thalers ($37.50) were sent Christian Sturm, of Frankfurt a. 0., for
scientific observations which proved of little value, and seventy-five dol-
lars were set aside for the purchase of a Hebrew Bible found in China.
As early as 1705-6 it looked as if the academy could not survive.
Its condition was desperate. Leibniz came to Berlin on its behalf and
was more successful than usual in securing the favor of the king, who
at this time gave it twenty-one hundred thalers ($1,575) for the pur-
chase of ground on Dorotheen Street which it still owns. Volume L
of the Berlin Miscellanies, edited by Leibniz and Cuneau, appeared in
1707. Yet in 1709 La Croze, the royal librarian, said the academy
was a society of obscure men, but its fame was soon increased by the
