THE PRUSSIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE. 423
health, though it is easy to see that there were sufficient reasons of an-
other character why a man of high spirit like himself should not be
present. In the long and rather trite Latin oration by von Printzen,
and in a second oration by Jabloniski, there was no mention of him,
though the published reports give him credit for his services in founding
and directing the academy. At this time the membership had increased
to 38 or, if the honorary and acting presidents be counted, to 40.
The king died on February 25, 1712. The history of the academy
under his successor, Frederick William I., is somewhat disappointing.
Leibniz, though doing all in his power for the academy until his death
in 1716, turned, in his later years, to other helpers than the king of
Prussia for aid in his projects: to the king of Saxony; to the Czar,
who met him cordially and made him many promises and to the gov-
ernment of Austria. Through these centers of learning and investiga-
tion he hoped to be able to direct and control scientific study on the
continent of Europe.
Still the Berlin Academy was not without significance. Hoffmann
the physicist was not idle. Work on a German dictionary was begun
early in the new reign, but for reasons which do not appear it was
given up in 1721. In 1712 it was decided to revise Luthers Bible and
to begin with the New Testament, but, after working on this revision
till 1743, it also was abandoned. Perhaps the failure of these great
projects may suggest some of the reasons why the academy had failed
during Leibnizs lifetime to realize the hopes he had cherished for it.
In his day and for some years afterwards few scientific men of the first
rank made Berlin their home. Moreover, the government of the
academy was autocratic. Some of the best men in the city, men who
ought to have been among its members, felt that they could do better
work outside than within its ranks. There were some quacks in Berlin,
like a certain Dr. Gundelsheim, who declined an election to the acad-
emy, characterizing it as a nuisance in the learned world, and useless,
and so ridiculed and defamed its most prominent member, Hoffmann,
as to compel him to leave the city. As Crown Prince, Frederick Will-
iam had despised the academy. Penurious by nature, he cared little
for any society or institution which sought merely to increase knowl-
edge without regard to its utility. True, he continued the calendar
monopoly, but cut off some other privileges the academy had enjoyed
and commanded it to reduce expenses to the lowest point. He con-
sented to preserve its life only on condition that it do something for
medicine and technology. Leibniz saw the situation and did his best
to persuade the academy to undertake a work which would gratify the
king and secure his favor. For some reason it failed to heed his advice.
Not till ten years later did Volume II. of the Berlin Miscellanies ap-
pear. Meanwhile the theater, which had been prepared for anatomical
