424 FOPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
study, was secured by Dr. Gundelsheim, who had gained the kings
confidence, and made the center of bitter opposition to the academy.
Although it contained the valuable cabinet of Spener, he alone of all
the members of the academy was permitted to examine it. The ob-
servatory was compelled to pay rent for rooms hitherto furnished
without cost, and subjected to the mortification of seeing rooms in
the building which had been erected for its sole use offered for rent.
Spener s death in 1717, just when he had begun to gain the kings
respect and confidence, was another misfortune for the academy. Dr.
Gundelsheim had now no one to oppose him. It need not be said that
the academy soon suffered from his hostility. A full account of its
expenses was demanded. The back salary due Leibniz remained in
arrears, and after the king had looked over the balance sheet, he
reduced the salary which had been only $450 one half, and ordered
the $75 saved in this and other ways paid to Dr. Gundelsheim. The
reduction of the salary of the president seems to have caused little
sorrow in the academy. Indeed it has been said that its members
would willingly have cut it off altogether could the salary of the secre-
tary have been kept where it was. Dr. Gundelsheim died in June,
1715. Meanwhile Leibniz, notwithstanding the ill treatment he had
received, continued to exert himself on behalf of the institution he
loved. He urged its members to greater efforts and sought to secure
the publication of the second volume of miscellanies. But the death
of some of the most faithful members and the indifference which the
public felt toward it left its future doubtful. Jabloniski was easily
its most influential member, as Frisch continued to be its most in-
dustrious.
Leibniz died on November 14, 1716. No settlement had been
made for his unpaid salary and none was ever made with his heirs.
He died in neglect. Hannover took no notice of his death, neither did
the academy in Berlin. Fontenelle, by order of the French Academy,
pronounced a worthy eulogy in his honor in Paris on November 13,
1717. This treatment of its founder will ever remain a blot on the
history of the academy, although its observance of Leibniz Day in
later years and at present indicates a better appreciation of his abilities
and his services for science and literature than the men of his own
generation seem to have had.
The history of the academy from the death of Leibniz in 1716 to
the death of the king in 1740 has comparatively little significance. Its
life was monotonous, far from what it ought to have been. With it
the king could have little sympathy. His strength was in other
directions than as a patron of learning. He laid the foundations of
a prosperous state upon which his son wisely built. He impressed
the people with the need of industry and economy, but he cared nothing
