THE PRUSSIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE. 425
for science unless it proved itself useful. Nevertheless, useless as lie
deemed them to be, he disturbed neither the universities nor the acad-
emy. He contented himself with ridiculing the pretensions of the
members of the latter and their methods of study. Yet he had some
respect for the science of medicine and that of chemistry. In these
two branches of study Berlin, during this period, was eminent. But
apart from the Gymnasium Director Frisch and the Eoyal Librarian
La Croze there were in the city no philologists, historians, jurists or
theologians of the first rank. If the king permitted the academy to
live, he took pleasure in crippling its resources and in compelling it
to pay salaries to men outside its membership, men who experimented
in medicine and chemistry and were willing to carry out his wishes.
During the period 1716-1740 only five volumes of miscellanies were
published aside from the observations which appeared in the calendar.
The fate of the academy might have been better had it issued, as Leibniz
wished it to do, a volume every year.
Sixteen months after the death of Leibniz the vacant presidency
was filled by the appointment to it of Jacob Paul Gundling, a man of
considerable knowledge, a fine story teller and the butt of the kings
wit. He was the author of about a dozen volumes on historical and
economic subjects, but was drunk a good deal of the time and altogether
unfit to hold an office to which a man like Leibniz had given dignity.
Thirteen years later, in 1733, acting on the advice of minister von
Vierecke, the king made Jabloniski president and the academy began
to show signs of a new life. A few famous men had settled in Berlin
and some of them had accepted membership in the academy. But
complete deliverance came only with the kings death and the accession
to the throne. May 31, 1740, of his son Frederick the Great, who in
almost all respects was the opposite of his father. This was the be-
ginning of the new era, an era in which French thought prevailed, the
era of Maupertuis, DAlembert and Condorcet.
