TROPICAL STATION AT CINCHONA, JAMAICA. 427
THE TEOPICAL STATION AT CIKCHONA, JAMAICA.
By Dr. N. L. BRITTON,
director-in-chief of the new york botanical garden.
A GKEAT need in the formation of the collections of tropical and
-^--^ subtropical plants of the New York Botanical Garden and else-
where in the United States has been a suitable place in the American
tropics where seeds could be germinated and cuttings and seedlings
grown under natural conditions for periods up to two or three years, be-
fore their transportation. Plants can be germinated and grown under
glass, but in many instances it is desirable or even necessary that they
should be cultivated in the open, and the care of such nurseries is far
less expensive than that of propagating houses. Larger plants col-
lected in the tropical forests are also transported to the temperate zone
only with difficulty and with considerable loss unless they have been
again rooted in the tropics and sent north in pots or tubs, sections of
bamboo stems being readily available for this purpose. I came to
realize this condition on my trip to the West Indies in the autumn of
1901, in company with Mr. Cowell, director of the Buffalo Botanic
Garden, and we discussed the project for the establishment of a nursery
a great deal, and concluded that in order to make as complete an exhi-
bition of tender plants as possible in our northern conservatories such
an adjunct to our work was necessary.
During Professor Underwoods recent extended visit to the island
of Jamaica, while pursuing his investigation of the ferns of tropical
America, he learned that the building and grounds of the colonial
government at Cinchona were offered for rental and he at once com-
municated this fact to me. It has long been the desire of all Amer-
ican botanists that arrangements should in some way be made for a
laboratory in the American tropics, to which investigators could con-
veniently go for the purpose of carrying on studies of tropical and
subtropical plants growing under natural conditions, instead of under
the necessarily artificial conditions which glass houses afford in the
temperate zone. This matter was taken vip as long ago as 1897, when
the island of Jamaica was visited by Dr. D. T. MacDougal and Pro-
fessor D. H. Campbell, who, at the request of other American botanists,
made an examination of available sites for such a laboratory, and de-
cided that this very place. Cinchona, was the one probably best adapted
to the purpose in view. At that time, however, the Department of
Public Gardens and Plantations of Jamaica was using these buildings
and grounds as a part of their agricultural and horticultural system
