430 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
offices, a storehouse and a small building designed for lodging visitors
to the station, the entire suite being admirably adapted for the pur-
poses for which it has been secured.
The grounds contain a large number of introduced ferns, shrubs
and trees, together with many native species. The valley of the Clyde
Kiver at an elevation of about 3,000 feet is within a mile ; New Haven
Gap and Morses Gap, three miles distant at a level not much different
from the station, furnish unequaled opportunities for the examination
of a primitive tropical forest. The summit of John Crow peak may
be reached from Morses Gap, and here at an elevation of 6,000 feet
the forest of tree ferns is so luxuriant that a view of the surrounding
lower country is obtained with difficulty. The wealth of ferns, hepatics
and other lower forms as well as of seed-plants that may be found here
is remarkable. In addition, the flora of the coastal region of the island,
and the vast collections in Hope Gardens and Castleton Gardens place
within easy reach of the visitor an enormous number of species native
to regions with a range of conditions from the most humid to those of
extreme aridity. The algal flora of the coast is also easily accessible.
The government record proves the general climatic conditions
prevalent at Cinchona to be very equable. Thus the lowest tempera-
ture reached in the winter of 1899-00 was 53.90° and the highest tem-
perature of the following summer was 70.4°.
The station at Cinchona is in direct communication with Kingston,
a city of 60,000 inhabitants, from which place nearly all supplies are
obtained.
In addition to the facilities offered by the station at Cinchona, the
government of Jamaica, by the courtesy of Hon. Wm. Fawcett, director
of the Public Gardens and Plantations, has granted to the garden sub-
stantial privileges which will be of great value to visiting investi-
gators. Among these may be mentioned the opportunities for study
at Hope Garden, which lies near sea-level near Kingston, including
the use of a table in the laboratory, and of the library of about twelve
hundred volumes. Botanists are also to be allowed to withdraw books
from this library for use at Cinchona under conditions imposed by
Mr. Fawcett. Castleton Garden and the other plantations of the gov-
ernment are likewise open to the student.
All persons who may apply for permission to study at Cinchona
must submit such evidence as the director-in-chief of the New York
Botanical Garden may require that they are competent to pursue in-
vestigation to advantage. While in residence at Cinchona they will
be under the supervision of the Hon. William Fawcett, director o?
Public Gardens and Plantations, to whose interest and advice the
establishment of this American Tropical Laboratory is largely due.
