EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY. 431
EDUCATION AND INDUSTEY.
By Professor EDW. D. JONES,
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
EDUCATION is one of the most important undertakings of life.
Of the four great institutions by means of which society accom-
plishes its purposes, the home, school, church and state, the institution
which reduces education to systematic form is one. The evolution of
society involves all these institutions in a constant process of readjust-
ment to new conditions. Every great social and industrial change has
therefore rendered necessary readjustment of the system of education
ill use.
In countries where political privileges are restricted to a few and
where economic conditions are stagnant, passport to society is the
knowledge of a mass of traditional lore chiefly theological and meta-
physical in character, supplemented by the rudiments of the exact
sciences. The Eenaissance unlocked for Europe the wealth of classical
learning and the fraternity of the learners speedily came to consist of
those who had received this knowledge and who could discuss it through
the vehicle of the classical languages. The rapid drawing back of the
curtain of mystery from the face of the earth during the age of the
discoveries and the subsequent slow development of the natural sciences
introduced a third great element to the curriculum of educational insti-
tutions; namely, science. The organization of the great states of
western Europe necessitated the study of politics, history, jurisprudence
and public finance. Eventually a home-grown culture in western
Europe and America made possible the profitable study of modern lan-
guages and literatures. And now comes a new condition, the result of
a recent and wonderful evolution, destined to influence the place and
function of the school in society as powerfully as any of those that have
gone before it. The growth of industry from the crude methods of the
handworker, following the dim lights of tradition, to the cooperative
effort and applied science of modern times, paralleled as it has been by
the evolution of commerce from venturesome and piratical expeditions
to a world-wide exchange of goods, which has become as essential to
modern society as the circulation of the blood is to the human body,
has again made necessary a modification of educational institutions.
This marvelous evolution of industry and commerce has created ma-
terial for an important group of new sciences, has brought into exist-
ence many new professions, and it forms a new world of human endeavor
in which new culture and new and worthy ideals must be created and
held aloft. Here is room for the work of the school as a patron of
