432 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
research, as a teaching institution, and as a champion and evangel of
high ideals.
Inasmuch as a major portion of the time of a considerable fraction
of the human race has been long engaged in earning a livelihood by
means of those industrial pursuits for which the school is now begin-
ning to formulate a specific course of preparation it is not remarkable
that this kind of education is now engaging public thought, but rather
remarkable that it should have been so long neglected.
The organization of a national system of education adequate to
prepare for industry involves the many-sided problem of providing for
the needs of each of the main classes of persons found in industrial
society. Such a system must provide for the worlcmen who compose
the rank and file of the mechanical or operative departments of a busi-
ness, and it also must give the scientific and technical training required
by the managers and superintendents of those departments. It must
include training for the office force which composes the executive branch
of that part of a business which has to do with the financial and com-
mercial policy, and finally it must provide an adequate education for
those who determine and superintend the execution of this policy.
We may therefore divide the school equipment, which has been pro-
vided specifically to prepare young persons for commercial and indus-
trial pursuits, according as it relates to one or another of the above
classes, distinguishing: (1) Trade and manual training; (2) profes-
sional and technical education; (3) training for office work, and (4)
higher commercial education.
Trade and Manual Training aims to produce the skilled artisan;
and this it endeavors to do by giving the youth, in addition to his gen-
eral elementary education, a further mental equipment, involving the
knowledge of the qualities of materials and the methods of manipula-
ting tools, machinery and materials to attain desired results. It also
aims to give him a knowledge of the proportions necessary to secure
strength or beauty, and the capacity to see the possibilities of materials
and of his art. There is necessarily an important physical element
involved in this kind of training. Not only must the mind be receptive,
but the eye must be taught to see things as they are ; not only must the
imagination be awakened, but the hand must be skilled to execute the
conceptions of the mind.
The subjects usually taught in manual training schools are free
hand and mechanical drawing, clay modeling, carving, sewing, cooking,
carpentry and forging. These subjects are appropriate for students
between the fifth and eighth grades. They are chiefly taught in the
public schools, being found in 1899 in the schools of 170 American
cities. At the same period, however, there were 125 private schools
teaching manual training.
In previous industrial periods a supply of skilled artisans, though
