EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY. 433
not an adequate one, was secured by the handing down of the traditions
of craft from father to son. This method was suited to the household
system of industry. At a later time the supply was made sure by a
careful supervision of apprenticeship, and this proved successful so
long as the shop system endured. The dominant industrial organiza-
tion previous to the introduction of the factory system was the guild —
an institution which, in addition to other duties discharged, made itself
responsible for the regulation of apprenticeship and for the preserva-
tion of standards of workmanship. These standards it was able to fix
since it included both masters and worlanen, and it maintained them
by means of the masterpiece, the trade-mark and the power of exclud-
ing incompetent workmen from the trade and inferior articles from the
market. The present industrial system has broken down all these
regulations. The traditions of craft do not preserve validity long
enough in this age of rapid mechanical evolution to be handed down
with profit from father to son. The freedom of choice of occupation
and the constant ebb and flow of population between producing regions
now prevent the accumulation of any great store of traditional skill
and knowledge among the workmen of any one locality. The factory
system has rendered apprenticeship impracticable, not only because there
is? no time for the employee to teach and the novitiate to learn, but
because the subdivision of labor is so great that a systematic progression
of tasks must needs be arranged to give the beginner even a compre-
hensive knowledge of a rule-of-thumb character concerning a trade;
and this the modern competitive institution is usually not in a position
to grant. Furthermore, the guild has disappeared and in its place
have come the trades unions, composed exclusively of employees, and
having as their primary object warfare through the strike to secure
higher wages and shorter hours of labor. The trades unions have not
undertaken to set standards of excellence in workmanship or material
as did the guild, nor can they do so, for they do not control the processes
of industry as did the guild. The attention paid by them to appren-
ticeship is not for the purpose of educating the artisan but to restrict
the number of persons in a trade and so affect wages.
The old system has crumbled to pieces, and yet never was there
greater need of an intelligent artisan class than at present. Never
have the machine and the routine of production so threatened to dwarf
the worker ; never has there been more wealth under the control of those
of artistic aspirations ready to pay for the best creative work of the
artisan. Never has there been greater need of joy and pride in work
and healthful mental stimulus in it to offset the deadening effects of a
narrow spirit of commercialism ; never has society more needed a sound
middle class capable of right thinking and sufficient initiative to hold
together the extremes of wealth and poverty that our wonderful eco-
nomic system now produces.
VOL. LXIV. — 28.
