434 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The school is called upon to provide the education necessary for
the artisan, and this it can do better than the practice of an industrial
art alone, because it can arrange such a gradation of tasks as will insure
the most rapid and permanent acquisition of skill and mental power.
The school can give manual training without interrupting the general
education of the youth. As dexterity in some lines is easiest acquired
in youth, it can insure this without the waste of mind and body in-
volved in child labor. The school, furthermore, can constantly relate
the precepts of the arts to the principles of the sciences on which they
rest and can add to this an artistic education which will awaken ability
beyond that which any training in the workshop or factory can evoke.
Professional and Technical Education is of a more advanced order,
and therefore not only requires more expensive equipment so that it
is limited to a relatively small number of institutions, but is divided
into professional courses corresponding closely to the professions and
to the customary groupings of productive industries. This branch of
education requires little explanation, let alone defense, in this country.
It is the earliest form of education for industry to be developed here
and it has passed beyond the experimental stage.
Of professional schools there were but two in this country at the
time of the declaration of independence, and these were both medical
schools. In 1899 the Commissioner of Education reported 917 profes-
sional schools, including schools of theology, medicine, law, pharmacy,
dentistry, veterinary science and training schools for nurses, having a
total attendance of 65,152.
As an illustration of a technical school we may cite the Eensselaer
Polytechnic Institute of Troy, N. Y., one of the first of its kind in this
country. It was founded in 1824 and, because of its early start and
high rank, has exerted a great influence upon American railway en-
gineering. The Philadelphia Textile School, the New York School
for Carriage Draftsmen, the Michigan Agriculture College and the
School of Mines of the same state are institutions of this class, as are
the many polytechnic, mechanical and agricultural ■ schools of the coun-
try, and schools of forestry, architecture, etc.
Through the liberality of the federal government many excellent
agricultural colleges now exist in the United States, but a wonderful
future lies before our agriculture when it shall be thoroughly permeated
by the modern scientific and system-loving spirit, and its various
branches shall follow the dictates of science, under the guidance of
trained men. This the recent history of the dairy industries amply
proves. The mineral industries of this country have been conquered
by scientific experts within the past fifteen years, and the recent im-
provements in smelting and refining are due to men from the univer-
sities and schools of mines. The manufacturing industries of this
country in a like manner need and can greatly profit by a steady supply
