EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY. 435
of technical experts who shall do for us what the graduates of German
schools have done for the German chemical and textile industries.
Training for Office Work has remained in the hands of private in-
stitutions for the most part in this country. These schools, usually
known as commercial colleges, aim to fit young people of both sexes
for clerical positions in offices and for employment as bookkeepers or
stenographers. The chief subjects taught are penmanship, correspond-
ence, stenography, typewriting, commercial arithmetic, bookkeeping and
business practice. The demand for persons to fill clerical positions
has steadily increased for many years owing to the development of
systems of stenography and to the invention of the typewriter and to
the more elaborate form in which the record of business transactions
is now kept. As the size of the individual business has increased and
the territory covered by its operations has widened and the period of
time involved in its calculations has lengthened, the need of carefully
kept records has become apparent. The growth of the corporate form
of business organization, furthermore, has made it necessary to protect
the interest of shareholders by complex systems of accounting, involv-
ing sufficient checks and balances and frequent audits.
The commercial college has responded in a more or less unsatis-
factory manner to the calls made upon it. This is due in part to the
fact that they are private institutions, run as money-making businesses,
and without any uniformly enforced standards such as they might have
attained for themselves through organization, or such as are enforced
upon preparatory schools and high schools by university requirements
for admission. Studies may be pursued in them in a wholly elective
manner, as fees are paid, and so it has happened that they have been
used as an educational short-cut by scholars of every variety of ability
and education from the high school graduate, who may spend a year
or more in them, to the youth from the country district school, who may
study for two or three months. In accounting for the unsatisfactory
work of this system of schools as a whole two other circumstances should
be taken into account. One is that the business community has been
expecting a kind of education from them which they were not organized
to give and are not in a position to give, and the other is that educators
who are capable of giving assistance have, for the most part, not as-
sumed a helpful attitude toward the problem presented by them.
The aggregate of interests represented by these schools in this
country is enormous, and the problems connected with them are serious
and merit attention. It. has been estimated that there are now 2,000
commercial colleges in the United States, employing 15,000 teachers,
and having an attendance of 160,000 pupils. The best of these estab-
lishments in the large cities are handsomely equipped for the work they
set out to do and amount practically to private commercial high schools.
In recent years this problem of education for office work has been
