436 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
complicated by the establishment of commercial courses in high schools.
The high school has the advantage in that it can formulate a systematic
course of study covering the special training desired, and can couple
with it a fairly adequate general secondary education. By having a
larger scholar population and holding it for a series of years the high
school is able, furthermore, to carry out in its commercial course a more
ambitious program of study than the commercial college with its
floating population, and so it can group and systematize its work to
the best advantage. It remains, however, to be seen what relation the
public high school and the private school will eventually sustain to one
another in this branch of education.
Higher Commercial Education is the effort of universities to re-
spond to the call for a course of education which shall fit young men
for the more responsible positions in industry. It aims to provide the
theoretical and systematic part of the education of those who are to
determine and execute the commercial and financial policy of busi-
nesses. It has more particularly in view at present persons who will
occupy such positions as managers of departments, foreign agents and
buyers of large concerns, officials of banks, insurance and transportation
companies, merchants, journalists, government employees at home or
abroad, as members of the consular and diplomatic service, etc.
There are three chief reasons why higher commercial education has
become an imperative demand of the times and why the great univer-
sities of this country as of other countries are responding to the call
made upon them by public opinion. These are briefly, that business
has become an intellectual pursuit, that in business a sufficient training
is not found for the adequate performance of its own tasks, and flnally,
that in the juncture thus created the universities are being actuated by
a new, broad and constructive policy to take hold of the problem.
To consider these separately, the first reason is that the higher tasks
and the more responsible positions of industry now involve an intel-
lectual pursuit making profound demands upon the intelligence of
those who undertake them. As Mr. Arthur Balfour, the first lord
of the English treasury, has recently said, In the marvelously com-
plicated phenomena of modern trade, commerce, production and manu-
facture there is ample scope for the most scientific minds and the most
critical intellects ; and if commerce is to be treated from the higher and
wider viewpoint it must be approached in the broader spirit of impartial
scientific investigation.
The economic system in vogue before the industrial revolution
hardly gave an opportunity for much of a science of productive industry
or for systematic courses of study preparatory to the task of guiding
industrial forces. That revolution enlarged the individual business
unit through the use of machinery in connection with great sources of
power, and of labor through an elaborate differentiation of tasks, the
