EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY. 437
result being to make the government of the internal affairs of a busi-
ness resemble the work of governing states. It enlarged the market
also by means of improved means of transportation and communication,
and not only brought the entire earth into the field of commercial vision,
but threw the new giants of production into such a keen and relentless
competition that the utmost precision of knowledge, genius for admin-
istration and mental and physical staying-power has been sought after
for leadership.
With these changes in progress and partly completed, industry has
at once shown an irresistible tendency to come under the sway of sci-
ence. A new concern of large size now starts with a charter and a plan
of internal organization, the work of professional organizers and as
carefully drawn as the constitution of a state might be. Eventually
the mill architect lays out the plant. The head chemist and consult-
ing engineer take charge of the operative departments ; the conditioning
laboratory checks off the results of the buyers work; the credit man
rules the selling agencies and compiles his data as systematically as the
much-abused charity organization society ; and the advertising manager
works with a like systematic use of records. Eisks are transferred,
whenever possible, to insurance companies which study them with all
the methods known to statistics. Legal liabilities are attended to by a
special corporation attorney. All the records of the activities of the
concern are compiled under the direction of the accountant and are
periodically examined and certified to by a professional auditor. At
every point the business has touched upon a science or a possible science.
This new regime, while it has given to industry such a character of
intricacy, has given to its laws such precision, to its processes such
rapidity and continuity, and to its leaders such a scope for power that
men of systematically trained perceptive faculties and reasoning powers
are required for it.
These methods also have already brought into view such a body of
systematized experience that it is possible to begin the formulation of
the principles of wealth production. And this will provide a subject-
matter which can be studied apart from practice, according to the
methods of an educational institution, and which will be of practical
value because it has grown out of practice and governs it.
In an important sense the advance made by higher commercial
education will condition the advance made by the other branches of V^*/
education preparatory to industry, since the men in the responsible
positions in our industry must needs have scientific and commercial
training to appreciate its value in the men they employ.
The second reason for higher commercial education lies in the fact
that it is becoming increasingly difficult for young men to acquire a
knowledge of the principles underlying business through engaging in
the activities of business. This is true if it is true that industry is
