438 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
becoming applied science, for science is systematized knowledge, and
systematic knowledge is only to be gained by systematic study. The
division of labor now customary in a business of any size is such that
a broad experience and knowledge of the business can not be gained
from service in a subordinate position. Either there must be unusually
favorable promotion from department to department, coupled with out-
side study; a plan followed by some of our prominent families in edu-
cating their sons, or an appropriate course of study must be arranged
in an educational institution, or else we must fall back upon the chance
of finding a man of unusual genius. We have in considerable measure
been trusting to the most uncertain plan of all, the discovery of the
self-made man of genius. As a result we have a tendency to build
industrial organizations to undue size, the endeavor being to get im-
portant interests under the control of the comparatively small number
of men who can be implicitly depended on. Thus we vastly overpay
for the exercise of a certain kind of talent and run the risk of many
industrial evils with our top-heavy system.
The tendencies of the industrial system now dominant, as regards
the production of managerial ability, are, however, in considerable de-
gree, still unrevealed to us because of a generation of remarkable
leaders which has not yet passed from the stage of action and which
was evoked by the evolution that built up our present magnificent
national industries. These men began in the day of small things
when a few hundred dollars sufficed to set up a manufactory with
costs of production as low as others and with high tariffs and trans-
portation rates to protect a market from outsiders. They grew with
the industrial system. As their businesses grew their opportunities
and experience and power grew by natural and easy stages, and they
emerged from a nicely adjusted and progressive evolution knowing
their industries from top to bottom. These men show the knowledge
of detail due to the day of small beginnings and the even hand in
administration due to gradually imposed responsibilities. In the future
we can not with any confidence look forward to a succeeding generation
recruited in the same way, for the system has changed. Unless the
evolution of industry which trained the leaders of to-day can be simu-
lated within industrial establishments by a system of apprenticeship
broader and more scientific than the old as the new industry is greater
than the old, and leading up to the highest administrative duties, then
preparation must be arranged outside them in the school and university.
It needs scarcely to be pointed out that business is carried on pri-
marily for the sake of producing wealth and that the machinery and
method devised for this purpose is only incidentally of value as a
training school for the young. To equip an institution specifically for
the purpose it is to serve, whether it be to produce locomotives or cotton
cloth, is well enough understood in these days of specialization. So
