EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY. 439
to equip an institution as to rapidly and surely and economically de-
velop the latent powers of the mind required in business and to impart
knowledge of practical value is simply to set about doing an educa-
tional work in an equally direct and logical way.
The very precision of organization which makes it so difficult for
the subordinate to gain the knowledge and experience necessary for
leadership provides the mechanism which most perfectly responds to
the entrepreneur and endows him with power never before equaled in
industry. Never was the capable manager more in demand than now;
never was the hunt for the right man more anxious than it is now.
There is not a more important question that can arise within industry
than this one of proper management. How shall society insure the
perpetuation of adequate leadership? This question is peculiarly
pressing for the United States, not so much because of immediate needs
as because we are bounding forward rapidly in our industrial evolution,
framing greater structures of trade than the world has ever seen before.
Our great country lying in one continuous area, undivided by phys-
ical barriers and capable of furnishing every variety of raw material;
in the possession of a progressive race with like degree of enterprise and
honesty in all sections and employing the same trade usages and laws,
possesses a capacity which a like area divided into many small states,
although in the possession of an equal population of different races,
could not have. No matter how large the industrial unit ultimately
required to secure all possible economies of production, here the various
raw materials can be secured, here all the branches of the business may
be carried on without crossing the boundaries of nations and encounter-
ing tariffs and racial and national rivalries. Here business can be
transacted with the utmost facility because among people with one
language, system of money and weights and measures, and working
with the same spirit of alertness and ambition, under one system of
laws and customs. The United States may well be the country destined
to test to the uttermost the possibilities of organization in industry.
But we shall not be without rivals in the worlds trade. Countries
which can not match us in resources and population will turn inevi-
tably to more scientific and systematic methods. Already the Germans
are appl3dng the same methods to the preparation for commercial war
that brought them out from the anarchy into which they fell after their
defeat by Napoleon and made them the foremost military nation in
Europe. England also is awakening to the necessity of applying edu-
cation to the preparation for business life. Lord Eosebery, in a speech
delivered before the Wolverhampton Chamber of Commerce which has
since become celebrated, said, after reviewing the dangers threatening
British trade from German and American competition: What is the
remedy for this? What is poor old John Bull to do before he is
suppressed and defeated by these newer competitors? If I might say
