440 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a word it would be to echo what has already been said by the chairman
— educate, I believe our raw material of men is the best in the world.
But I do believe that our commercial men require educating, training
scientifically from the bottom to the top. I believe that is a feeling
which has become very common in this country, I see a great many
articles now in the papers as to the decline of our trade, and several of
our leading newspapers are, as you know, devoting articles to this sub-
ject, which I read with profit, but as to which I do not pretend to pro-
nounce a definite judgment. But I do think all these articles, whether
they be pessimistic or optimistic — and I am bound to say they are gen-
erally pessimistic — are united on this point of education.
Before we consider the adaptation of a university course to business
training let us notice the various systems which have been or are now
employed in educating or choosing young men who are designed for
industrial leadership. The oldest system now in use is that of patron-
age, which still survives in France. This system belongs to a long
established and somewhat static industrial community, in which ad-
vancement is slow and restricted to those who are specially favored.
The solicitation of the favor of a distinguished relative or friend or
local dignitary to assist in introducing a young man to a desirable
position is in a sense only a rigid and systematized form of the rather
loose system of recommendation everywhere in use, and, in a degree, it
is as natural as the giving of favor to friends and relatives which is
everywhere a factor in the preferment of many. To erect this into a
system, however, is repugnant to the spirit of American youth and their
employers. Allied to this is the English custom known as the count-
ing-room system, which consists in the placing of the son of a member
of a firm in the business at an early age and graduating him rapidly
from department to department in such a manner that when he finally
obtains a junior partnership he has some knowledge of the operations
of the business. The result of this plan is to keep businesses in families
for generations and to create a spirit of family pride in the integrity
and prosperity of a business which is heartily commendable. The Swiss
a? an industrial people are noted for the degree to which businesses are
in this way kept within families. Some defects of the system are the
tendency to coerce young men into occupations for which they have no
taste or ability, the tendency to family exclusiveness and the neglect
of young men who have only their merits to recommend them for pro-
motion. This system is in reality a special form of apprenticeship
arranged for the few.
Closely allied to the above is the recruiting of the managers of the
colonial houses or foreign selling agencies of a concern from promising
young men in subordinate positions in the home office and, in turn,
recruiting the superior officers of the home concern from successful
branch managers. This system of using the foreign ofiices as feeders
