EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY. 441
has played some part in England and is used in Germany, It has the
merit of insuring to the home office accurate knowledge of the tastes,
customs, laws and languages of foreign markets, and of keeping the
home office and agencies in touch through the transfusion of blood.
Travel has for many generations been used in western Europe as
a fitting •supplement to the education of a young man at the conclusion
of the period of schooling. It undeniably broadens the personality
and develops culture through the variety of knowledge it imparts and
the contact with people which it involves. It is, however, an expensive
way of accumulating knowledge, and the knowledge gained is likely
to be of a fragmentary and superficial character unless the traveler
have uncommon tenacity and singleness of purpose. Before travel be-
came the favorite recreation of the wealthy and the countries that have
much to teach came to be deluged with the never-ending stream of
sight-seers it was, perhaps, possible to gain in a short time valuable
information regarding the industrial life of a people. Now the avenues
of travel have been smoothed to a cosmopolitan sameness and these
avenues lead to the sights which, for the most part, convey little in-
formation of practical value to the young man preparing for commer-
cial life. Meanwhile, since international rivalry in trade has become
acute, the processes of production which might be studied with profit
are being jealously guarded and kept secret from foreign visitors. So
greatly has the system of news gathering improved and so voluminous
and accurate have become the reports of consular officers that the
traveler abroad must often return home to learn from literature easily
accessible facts that are difficult to acquire through personal observa-
tion. Travel is quite appropriate for a people that have everything
to learn and desire to import en Hoc the system of older developed com-
mercial states, but for a country having marked characteristics of
superiority and possessing the lead in many things the problem of keep-
ing this preeminence is not solved by any scheme of borrowing ideas,
no matter how systematically and intelligently carried out. It is de-
serving of notice, however, that travel may be utilized by American
manufacturers to a greater degree than it has been to give them a
knowledge of the tastes of their foreign customers.
Education abroad is in many ways analogous to travel. It has been
employed in recent years with success by Japan and is best adapted to
the requirements of a nation taking its first steps in a new culture.
For the United States this plan has many of the limitations of foreign
travel, and it carries with it the added danger that the young man who
remains abroad for a long season in the formative period of life will
find himself on return out of touch with the ideals and customs domi-
nating the industrial society in which he is to live, and that thereby
the effectiveness of his personality will be greatly decreased.
These are some of the methods which have been devised to improve
