442 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
upon the wasteful state of individualistic struggle in which the leader
is chosen through the survival of the fittest simply as the exceptional
man is able to fight his way up from the ranks and grasp leadership
as the perquisite of the ownership of property. None of these meth-
ods alone is adequate for the needs of modem industry ; most of them
are out of harmony with the traditions of American civilization. In
the search for a solution of the problem experience points us to no
other institution so promising as the school. It is the most mobile and
elastic of all our great institutions and is easily adapted to new pur-
poses, while it is at the same time incomparably the most economical
of our institutions in proportion to the work accomplished by it. We
have never as a people been disappointed in the accomplishment of any
educational task we have set the school to perform, and the school has
not been obliged to withdraw from any task that has once been assigned
to it.
Such being the conditions of the problem, the third reason why
higher commercial education is making rapid headway at the present
time lies in the response which institutions of higher education have
made in this country to the demands upon them in this connection.
This in itself is one of the most encouraging manifestations of a new
and broader conception of the university as an institution whose func-
tions are to gather in to itself and conserve all knowledge, to represent
the interests of all classes of the community which supports it, and to
be as broadly useful as is possible, consistent with true learning in the
training of men for the various activities of life. This sentiment which
characterizes the thought of university circles to-day, in contrast to a
narrower and more exclusive ideal once dominant, was well expressed
by President Nicholas Murray Butler, in his inaugural address at
Columbia University. He said, In these modern days the university
is not apart from the activities of the world, but in them and of them.
To fulfill its high calling the university must give, and give freely, to
its students ; to the world of learning and of scholarship ; to the devel-
opment of trade, commerce and industry; to the community in which
it has its home, and to the state and nation whose foster child it is.
Not only will the community be benefited, but the universities will
be benefited by every new avenue of usefulness opened for the school.
Already our universities through their libraries and collections are
made the custodians of the communitys knowledge. To these centers
should be gathered as much as possible of the data upon which may
be ultimately built an adequate science of wealth production. Much
of this knowledge now perishes unrecorded with the men whose life
energy has been expended in assembling it. This is a great loss to
the race. The world of business is, in a sense, a laboratory where are
discovered the principles of industry and commerce. These discoveries
