EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY. 443
should in some way be systematically garnered and so treasured that
the rising generation shall have access to them. Our universities also
comprise an assemblage of men of expert knowledge who would, many
of them, greatly profit by being brought into closer touch with the
world of affairs about them. The advance of the university into the
field of higher commercial education can only be made successful by
devising means of bringing the university into closer contact with the
industrial and commercial institutions of the country. This is de-
sirable not only for the sake of keeping the learning of the university
from becoming stagnant with antiquated knowledge and to permit the
rendering of the most effective service, but is necessary to prevent any
serious hiatus between the academic life of the student and his later
business career. The task of those interested in the advancement of
commercial education appears to be a two-fold one; to prepare the
necessary course of instruction, and to obtain from the business com-
munity the close sympathy and cooperation essential to the achieve-
ment of any large success.
The course of instruction finally adopted will necessarily be framed
to correspond with the ideal which is formed of the business man as a
person of power and knowledge. In the forming of this ideal there
is need of much discriminating observation. All will agree upon the
need of honesty and dependability and a certain complement of attrac-
tive personal qualities, and tenacity of purpose, and fertility of resource,
which is closely allied to it. There is required also executive ability,
a most complex manifestation of the personality involving character
as well as rapid mental processes and the power to subordinate detail
and quickly choose the vital points of a matter. The business man has
constant need of the power to judge men, and of retentiveness of mem-
ory, together with that healthful working together of all the powers
of mind involved in good judgment or common sense. The question
must be answered. How in the choice of these and other characteristics
does the educational problem of the future business man differ from
the education of the man who is to get ahead in other walks of life?
So far as this problem of evoking the latent powers of mind and heart
is concerned, more undoubtedly depends upon the environment of the
students life, the ideals held before him, the methods of teaching, and
the care taken to cultivate his powers of initiative, than upon the spe-
cific things studied. It may be suspicioned that courses of higher com-
mercial education which differ in no particular from other university
courses, except in the choice of studies, are half-hearted attempts at the
solution of a new problem the real difficulties of which are not ap-
preciated.
Turning to the subject-matter composing the courses in higher com-
mercial education, provided by some fifteen of our larger universities,
we find the most prominent place among the studies designed to give
