444 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
general culture occupied by history. The first place among studies
calculated to give special training is given to economics, which explains
the general principles underlying the present structure of economic
society. This includes, besides systematic courses, studies in applied
economics, statistics, money, banking and finance. Under the caption
Commerce and Industry may be grouped studies in the principles of
commerce and the geography, materials, customs and usages of com-
merce and also detailed examination into the structure and processes
of the extractive and manufacturing industries. Attention should be
called to the at present very meagerly developed study of industrial
organization, vs^hich has to do with the administrative relations existing
within an individual business, especially if it be of large size, and with
the methods of utilizing the resources of investors in financing new
undertakings. A very important group are the applied sciences, in-
cluding industrial chemistry, the application of physics to industry,
economic geology, etc. Among other subjects generally included are
the modern languages and commercial law, the latter covering not only
the legal liabilities attending industrial acts, but the principles upon
which the state interferes to regulate the competitive struggle. The
successful conduct of such a program of study obviously involves the
cooperation of several departments of a university; the humanities are
represented in the history, economics and languages; the scientific de-
partment in the various courses of applied science ; the law department
in commercial law; while the studies in commerce and industry pro-
vide a new group which serves as a central topic about which the others
are arranged.
The university must not be expected to show its full effectiveness
in the new field it has entered until a considerable amount of prelim-
inary work has been done in the collecting and classifying of knowl-
edge, the preparation of text-books and the adapting of methods of
instruction to the nature of the new subjects taught. Higher commer-
cial education does not aim to fit the individual for the immediate
assumption of responsible commercial tasks any more than engineering
schools fit young men to step at once to the position of engineer-in-
chief. There is a body of detail connected with the operation of most
businesses which can only be learned in practice. The university is
aiming to train the youth to clear thinking and to equip him with a
knowledge of the general principles upon which sound business prac-
tice rests, trusting that with such a preparation his later advancement
will be such that the years of study will prove years well spent and
that, in addition to a compensating financial return, life will contain
a richer reward of the higher utilities and a larger sphere of usefulness,
because of the early implanted love of truth.
