EVOLUTION NOT THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES. 445
EVOLUTION NOT THE OEIGIN OP SPECIEsI ^
By O. F. cook,
u. s. department of agkicultuke. v
TT is a misfortTine frequently lamented that new truth, the most
-^ precious attainment of each generation, is also the most unwelcome.
We do not hasten to sweep out our stock of laboriously collected ideas,
even after the worthlessness of the assortment has been declared. This
conservatism of vested intellectual interests not only postpones the
utilization of the results of scientific inquiry, but it has an even worse
effect when it impedes further investigation and warps our perception
of facts.
The great obstacle in the popularization of the fundamental and
obvious biological fact of evolution was the theological dogma of the
separate creation of species, and toward the overthrow of this the argu-
ments of Darwin and his immediate followers were, of necessity, di-
rected. After four decades the debate upon the general question may
be said to have closed. The thoughtful public believes that species
were not made like cakes by the baker, but that the diversity of organic
nature has been attained by gradual changes and transformations, a
process commonly thought of as evolution. As soon, however, as we
pass into the field of biology proper, and seek to know the nature and
causes of this process, all unanimity of opinion vanishes. The fact of
evolution is no longer doubted, but biologists are still writing thousands
of pages annually in support of the most diverse and contradictory in-
terpretations of evolutionary phenomena.
In spite of the external simplicity of the idea, evolution affords
extremely complex and elusive problems, and in addition to the inherent
difficulty of these, discussion is still cumbered with the original ter-
minology. Vast quantities of arguilientation wasted in attempting to
convince theologians that they did not know how species were made
are already forgotten, but a more troublesome legacy remains, in that
the words and ideas upon which attention became focused during that
struggle still darken our views of biological problems.
Evolutionists, too intent on a practical explanation of the diversity
of species, seized upon the idea that organisms become adapted to en-
vironment, and disregarded the more fundamental fact that species are
not by nature stationary, but have an independent motion of their own.
This oversight brought us the impossible task of explaining how ex-
ternal conditions produce evolutionary changes, and prevented the per-
