446 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ception that adaptations are due to eztemal causes only as environment
may influence the direction of the normal and necessary movement of
the species.
That evolution is thus an active, universal and truly physiological
process is not considered in current theories, largely because thought
and language have continued to follow the bias of the original con-
troversy in seeking in evolution an explanation of the origin of species
and in expecting, conversely, that an explanation of the origin of species
would also explain evolution. It is, therefore, a matter of literary as
well as of scientific difficulty to present an alternative view, that the
multiplication of species is in no proper sense a result of evolution, but
is due to entirely distinct causes more often antagonistic than favorable
to evolutionary progress.
Evolution versiLS Taxonomy.
The early evolutionists were all systematists deeply impressed by
the vast complexity of organic nature, a sentiment which we may still
indulge, since two centuries of labor have but made a beginning in the
task of describing and assigning names to the millions of groups of
organisms. Nevertheless, it is to be regretted that biological evolution
was viewed and expounded so exclusively from the standpoint of the
taxonomist, since his interests are greatly at variance with those of the
evolutionist, and the confusion of the two distinct lines of investigation
has done much to perpetuate the erroneous identification of the origin
of species with the process of evolution.
The evolution best appreciated by the taxonomist is one which has
produced species separable by definite and easily definable characters.
He finds such species on islands and in other circimascribed regions and
thereupon decides that isolation is an important evolutionary factor,
failing at the same time to perceive that the constancy which he
ascribes to insular species is merely a uniformity made possible by the
limited area of distribution, and hence often absent in species of more
extensive range. Small segregations of individuals acquire uniformity
of characters more promptly than if they were larger, and the sooner
afford diagnostic differences of use to the systematist. This does not,
however, decrease the probability that evolutionary change is slower in
small groups than in those which the systematist abominates — large
assemblages of individuals, offering great variety of characters, but
without uniformity of combinations.
The systematist is prone to believe that there has been more evolu-
tion in a genus of ten definable species than in another occupying the
same geographical region, but consisting of only one species. For the
evolutionist, however, the segregation of the numerous species means
that the conditions are less uniformly favorable for the subdivided
