EVOLUTION NOT THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES. 447
genus than for the other. Among fossil organisms, also, the more gen-
eralized the types the wider was the distribution, the separation of local
genera and species following with less favorable circumstances or
greater competition. Segregation multiplies species by separating
groups of organic individuals, just as the ocean might form many
islands from a partially submerged continent. Species are biological
islands, but we do not go farther in biology than in geography by the
discovery that islands must be isolated. Isolation permits evolutionary
progress to be made on separate lines until the differences become of
diagnostic utility to the systematist, but that isolation is responsible
for the changes which bring about the divergence of characters is a
deduction no more logical than that the differences between islands are
due to the waters which separate them.
Too narrow zeal in the descriptive task has led many systematists
to act on the assumption that the same amount of difference should
everywhere receive the same systematic recognition, a method some-
times defended on the ground that all variations of form or structure
indicate incipient species budding out from the parent stock, and sure
to become separate groups like other now segregated types, a supposition
quite unsupported by evidence. Far more rational and more secure
would be the progress of systematic biology if recognition as species
were limited to groups of individuals separate in nature, regard being
given to the completeness of segregation rather than to the amount of
difference.
It is to be admitted, of course, that when specimens from a new
locality offer tangible differences from any previously known, the work-
ing systematist must describe and name them as representing new
species. To crowd them into an old species by emending the descrip-
tion or by calling them a variety is to guess at an integration in
advance of knowledge; while to refuse to unite species which have
been shown to belong to a continuous series in nature is to prefer tech-
nical fiction to biological reality. A coherent group of interbreeding
individuals is the unit of evolutionary biology to which the term species
finds its most proper application. The tendency of some systematists
to refer also to intergrading, unsegregated subdivisions of such groups
as species shows how easily conventional taxonomic methods may ob-
scure evolutionary distinctions.
Criteria of Specific Distinctness.
Species differ, of course, in the variability of their characters, but,
other things being equal, the uniformity of the individuals of a species
might be expressed by a ratio between the range and the facilities for
interbreeding. A widespread species of sedentary animals or plants
will become locally diversified; more frequent intercommunication per-
