448 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mits more uniform progress. A single species may have as great a
variety of characters as a dozen related groups which have been segre-
gated. Two species may be quite distinct and yet differ much less than
the connected extremes of another. That a species differs in different
parts of its range does not necessarily mean that a subdivision will take
place; it means merely that characters are originating more rapidly
than they spread over the whole species. The integrity of a species is
not destroyed by inconstancy of characters, but because geographical
or other barriers make a gap in the series.
The failure of the extremes of a widely distributed species to breed
when brought together does not prove the attainment of specific dis-
tinctness, nor the approach of it, since internal diversity does not
weaken the species, but is an evolutionary advantage, and both extremes
may continue to cross freely with the connecting forms, which consti-
tute the bulk of the species. Neither does the power to form fertile
hybrids prove that two species occupying distinct ranges are one. Faith
in such criteria is simply a remnant of the pre-evolutionary theory of
the separate creation of species. The only way to ascertain that two
groups of organisms are separate species is to find the gap between
them. Whether they will breed together or not, and whether the
hybrids are fertile and vigorous, or weak, sterile and aberrant, may
indicate the period and degree of divergence of the types crossed, but
affords absolutely no evidence as to whether the series to which they
belong in nature are continuous or interrupted. Specific distinctness
is a question much more geographical than evolutionary. Evolution
continues whether the species is divided or not; the divergence of the
parts is rendered possible by the cessation of the interbreeding which
would otherwise maintain the coherence and relative uniformity of the
undivided group.
Segregation and Vital Motion.
The systematist separates species because they are different, but
the evolutionary significance of species does not appear from formal
descriptions of these biological islands; it lies in the fact that isolated
groups of organic individuals universally acquire diagnostic differences.
Isolation has furnished millions of these tests of the universality of
biological motion, but it does not cause the motion. Evolution is inde-
pendent of isolation, and without it has often brought about great
diversity of form an(J structure, as witness the dissimilar sexes, castes,
dimorphic and alternating generations of many species of plants and
animals. Without evolutionary progress there would have been no
species as we now know them, but the causes of the segregation of
species are not causes of evolution; segregation merely permits this
universal tendency to become more manifest. If it should be found
that evolutionary divergences sometimes assist natural selection or
