450 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Indeed, it may be claimed that the kinetic theory of evolution affords
the first concrete explanation of the workings of natural selection.
Vital motion not only makes selective influence possible, but it meets
the ancient and hitherto fatal objection to the theory of selection,
since it shows how characters may originate and develop to the point
of utility or harmfulness, where selection can take effect.
The hypothesis of selection as the active principle or causal agency
of evolution became illogical and useless as soon as the inheritance of
acquired characters was abandoned. The first idea without the second
does not account for adaptations. The selection of Nageli, Weis-
mann and other believers in a determining principle or hereditary
mechanism of evolution is a very weak substitute for the Darwinian
idea, able only to eliminate the hopelessly unfit, but quite without
means of influencing the survivors. The recognition of a continuous
and necessary vital motion permits us to understand that the rejection
by the environment of a harmful variation encourages adaptation by
accelerating the development of any more adaptive variation which
may appear.
All organisms are subject to selective influence in the sense that
variations are rejected with a promptness proportional to their harm-
fulness in the given environment, but generally this leaves a very wide
latitude of possible changes in which selection does not interfere. The
instances are relatively rare in which existence becomes acutely de-
pendent upon the development of some one characteristic or quality,,
and such narrow selection does not strengthen the type, but insures
and even hastens its extinction.*
The Significance of Species.
The traditional illustration of organic descent by a tree with ever-
dividing branches is entirely misleading as a suggestion of the nature
of evolutionary processes, because individuals do not follow each other
in simple series. Successive generations are connected by endless
intergraftings of the lines of descent. A species may be treated sys-
tematically or statistically as an aggregation of individuals, and may
be described by an averaging of the characters of these; but from an
evolutionary point of view it does not exist as a species because of the
possession of a certain complex of characters, but because the com-
ponent individuals breed together; through this alone is the integrity
or coherence of the species maintained. For evolutionary purposes
we may think of the san^e species existing thousands of years hence,
* Stages of Vital Motion, Poptjlak Science Monthly, LXIII., 16, May,.
1903.
