EVOLUTION NOT THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES. 451
and with any or all its characters changed.* It is not necessary even
that the individuals of a species remain alike; in many unrelated
natural groups extremely diverse sexes, castes and forms remain asso-
•ciated in the same species and travel together on the evolutionary
journey, sharing the same environment, but without any tendency to
become exactly alike. Moreover, we know that sexual and other
diversities inside the species are not casual or accidental, but normal
and advantageous, facts quite overlooked in static theories, which have
viewed life from a narrowly systematic standpoint and have argued
that interbreeding prevents the preservation of new characters and is
thus a hindrance to evolution.
The kinetic theory, on the contrary, ascribes the fact that organisms
are everywhere bound up into species to a property of fundamental
evolutionary importance, and interprets the multitudinous devices for
maintaining the coherence of groups of interbreeding organic indi-
viduals and the equally general manifestations of sexual and other
diversification inside specific lines, as due to the same requirement of
protoplasmic organization, an interlacing network of descent. With-
out cross-fertilization species would not cohere, but would split into
numberless independent, diverging lines. This takes place with organ-
isms long propagated asexually, whether artificially or in nature. For
example, the genus Sphagnum, which very rarely produces spores, offers
a multiplicity of varieties nowhere approached among mosses having
normal sexual reproduction; but notwithstanding so many differences
in minute details Sphagnum has remained a very compact, unpro-
gressive group. Cross-fertilization prevents this type of diversification,
but it need not on that account be supposed to impede evolutionary
progress. Evolution is not merely a progressive diversification, it re-
quires also a progressive synthesis of characters by the interbreeding of
the individual members of specific groups.
The Species a Protoplasmic Network.
That sexual reproduction is a substitute or improvement of multi-
plication by fission is another partial and misleading view which has
contributed much towards the concealment of the causes of evolution.
The division of cells is the only method of organic increase; conjuga-
tion is not multiplication, but serves as a preliminary stimulant to the
necessary cell-division. What is growth, for example, among the
filamentous algge composed of chains of cells is reproduction among
the unicellular species, where divided cells become separate individuals.
* Four Categories of Species, American Naturalist, 33:287, April, 1899.
The species into which paleontologists arbitrarily divide geological series of
organisms may be explainable by evolutionary progress alone, but the multi-
plication of the contemporaneous species of a given horizon is a different
question.
