452 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Only among the simplest organisms, if anywhere, is indefinite repro-
duction possible without the assistance of conjugation.
The new science of cytology has made us aware that the division of
cells is not a passive or a simple process, but is extremely active, com-
plex and varied. Living protoplasm is in motion, and the discovery
that cell walls are not hermetically closed, but are perforated by delicate
protoplasmic strands, lends strength to the belief of some biologists
that j)rotoplasm circulates, not only inside the individual cells, but
through the entire organism. Conjugation may signify that such a
circulation extends also throughout the species. Or, to vary the anal-
ogy, the net -like structure of protoplasm may be thought of as contin-
uous, not only in the individual, but as binding together the whole
species by the intercrossing of the lines of individual descent. As indi-
vidual organisms will in different degrees endure subdivision, and are
able to restore or regenerate the lost part, so species may survive a cer-
tain amount of segregation, but if too small a group of individuals be
cut off it perishes through the reproductive debility long recognized as
inherent in inbred or narrowly segregated organisms. For taxonomy
the tree notion of descent was sufficient as a means of indicating the
history and affinities of species and higher groups, but evolution is a
process which must be studied inside the species, and here the diagram
of relationship is not dentritic, but reticular.
Symhasis a Cause of Evolution.
If reproduction by means of cell-division is reckoned as an essential
property of protoplasm, equally fundamental importance can scarcely
be denied to the property called symbasis* which requires this inter-
weaving of numerous lines of descent and this simultaneous movement
of organisms in specific groups. As organic complexity increases there
is greater necessity for cross-breeding, as evidenced by the accentuation
of sexual diversity, and by the decline of asexual propagation and of
the power of regenerating lost parts. Organisms which have traveled
farthest upon the evolutionary journey are most dependent upon sym-
basis. Nowhere among the higher animals, including many thousands
of species of arthropods and vertebrates, is there known to be a long
continued series of nonsexual individuals, f In comparison with the
* Popular Science Monthly, May, 1903. Symbasis may be defined fur-
ther as the property of which sexual diversity and cross-fertilization furnish
the phenomena. The word may also be used physiologically to signify a
normal and advantageous range of interbreeding among the individuals of
organic grovips. It is to be distinguished on the one side from wide cross-
breeding and on the other from narrow inbreeding, both of which produce
inferior offspring and interfere with evolutionary progress.
-j- Among the bees fertilization may be omitted for a single male generation,
and among the plant-lice for several wingless generations, but such instances
are admittedly exceptional and specialized.
