EVOLUTION NOT THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES. 453
higher animals plants are but loose and imspecialized aggregations of
cells, and yet among them also sexual differentiation has made great
progress, and in some orders contrivances to insure cross-fertilization
are highly developed.
The extent to which conjugation exists among the lower groups is
not yet determined. That it may be omitted for many generations of
a simple organism should not be taken to mean that it is entirely absent
or has no importance, since among the higher animals, where cross-
fertilization is recognized as indispensable, the growth of the body to
maturity requires millions of cell-divisions, each of which would mean
a new generation in a unicellular species. The supposed absence of
sexual reproduction in certain parasitic and saprophytic groups is a
confirmatory exception, in view of the obvious degeneration of such
organisms.*
To the many speculations on the purpose of sex and cross-fertiliza-
tion it can do no harm to add the conjecture that the presence of mod-
erately diverse qualities of protoplasm facilitates cell-division. Some
have held that the function of sex is to assist evolution by producing
variations, and others that it neutralizes variation by maintaining a
stable average. From the kinetic point of view it appears that sym-
basis, as represented by the phenomena of sex and of cross-fertilization,
is not an impediment to evolution, nor a device to cause variation, but
a means of communicating it. Variations appear without sex, and
may even be accumulated, as by the adding of one bud variation to
another in plants propagated by grafts or by cuttings, like the bread-
fruit, apple and banana. Such progress is, however, slow and halting,
and is accompanied by a decline in reproductive fertility. Symbasis
not only sustains the vitality of organisms already evolved, but it is
directly responsible for the upbuilding of the complex structure and
vital economy of the higher plants and animals, and it builds the faster
when by the differentiation of sexes two sets of variations can be ac-
cumulated.
To symbasis is due also the arrangement of organisms in the co-
herent groups called species, or what may be termed the specific consti-
tution of life. Conjugation is the means of symbasis, as division is of
reproduction. Sexual and other dimorphism, and the numerous spe-
cializations, devices and instincts by which cross-fertilization is secured,
are aids to symbasis, just as the spore-sacs, ovaries and placentfe facili-
tate reproduction. The phenomena of reproduction and those of sym-
* There is also the possibility that they secure from their hosts proto-
plasmic compounds of high complexity which serve as a partial substitute for
conjugation. It is further to be observed that under a kinetic theory the
existence of sexual reproduction and cross-fertilization in many fungi in which
these processes are still unknown may be inferred from the simple fact that
the individuals are grouped into well defined species.
