EVOLUTION NOT THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES. 455
ticated instances of distinctly prepotent variations are known, and such
were taken by Mivart and other zoologists to prove that species do not
originate by gradual change, but abruptly or by extraordinary births,
a view quite similar to the recently published Theory of Mutations,
but distinctly more practical because the mutations of plants which
are the basis of the inferences of Professor De Yries are not prepotent
but recessive, presumably because they do not represent true genetic
variations, but are symptoms of what may be described as an evolution-
ary debility, due to inbreeding. The disappearance of mutative char-
acters when the new variations are crossed with the parent form or
with each other is merely the recovery, as it were, of the health of the
species when the abnormal condition of inbreeding has been removed,
as shown so conclusively in Darwins well-known experiments with
pigeons, and confirmed by an abundance of similar facts.
Though differently interpreted, many other facts supporting this
view were collected by Darwin, who summarized the results of his
studies of Ipomea, Digitalis, Origanum, Viola, Bartonia, Canna and
the common cabbage and pea, as follows:
The most important conclusion at which I have arrived is that the
mere act of crossing by itself does no good. The good depends on the
individuals which are crossed differing slightly in constitution, owing
to their progenitors having been subjected during several generations
to slightly different conditions, or to what we call in our ignorance
spontaneous variations.*
Differences between the plants of different habitats mean also dif-
ferent lines of descent and attendant variations, and the beneficial re-
sults of bringing these together may be explained by reference to sym-
basis rather than to the slightly different conditions.
While it may not be insisted that species, as described and named
by systematists, are never originated by extraordinary births, or from
mutations, both suppositions are obviously improbable as general ex-
planations. Mutations are seldom fitted to survive because they are
less vigorous and less fertile than the parent type, so that they must
be segregated at once in order to be preserved. And even prepotent
variations have no necessary connection with the origination of species,
since however rapidly the characters of a species might change, it would
still be the same species until a subdivision had taken place. The more
a species evolves the more different from its relatives it becomes, and
the more satisfactory for the purposes of systematic study, but this
progressive transformation of the type carries with it no necessity for
subdivision, nor any indication that evolution is concerned with the
origination of species.
* Darwin, The Effects of Cross and Self Fertilization in the Vegetable
Kingdom, p. 27. New York, 1895.
