42
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
perform it would appear that an excellent opportunity is presented
in the possibility of establishing such a laboratory.
Each of our universities and learned societies represents a more or
less well-defined and consequently narrow clientage, while the Car-
negie Institution alone is truly national in its scope and influence.
Also while our national scientific bureaus must devote their energies
chiefly to the solution of practical problems, the Carnegie Institution
alone may devote even the major proportion of its funds to the advance-
ment of pure science. As no permanent laboratory for research in
marine zoology exists in the West
Indian region the Carnegie Insti-
tution would have an absolutely
free hand in determining the situa-
tion, scope and destiny of such a.
station.
The present movement appears
to have been initiated by two ar-
ticles in Science advocating the es-
tablishment of such a lalioratory at
the Tortugas, Florida. Consider-
able discussion ensued; the chief
questions being those of the most
suitable site for the station, its aus-
pices, and the character of its work.
Opinions upon these important
points were expressed by fifty nat-
uralists, such as Barton. M. A. Bige-
low, E. P. Bigelow, Chapman, H.
L. Clarke, J. F. Clarke, Conklin,
Dall, Davenport, Dean, Dodge, Duerdcn, Edwards, Evermann, Gill, Har-
gitt, Herrick, L. 0. Howard, Jennings, H. P. Johnson, D. S. Jordan,.
V. L. Kellogg, Kingsley, Lillie, Lucas, McBride, McMurrich, Metcalf,.
Mills, Minot, Montgomery, Morgan, IsTeal, Nutting, Ortmann, C. H.
Parker, E. Eathbun, Eichards, Eitter, Eolfs, Sedgwick, Springer, E.
M. Strong, Treadwell, Verrill, H. B. Ward and four others. It is
evident that a large number of our most active biologists have inter-
ested themselves in the project.
Twenty of those who have expressed any opinion upon the question
of site have favored more or less strongly the placing of the laboratory
at the Tortugas; six recommend Jamaica; three Porto Eico; two the-
Gulf Coast; two the Bahamas; the Isle of Pines, Miami, Florida, and
the Bermudas each one.
Although the number of naturalists who have advocated the placing
of the laboratory at Jamaica is small, their opinion is evidently worthy
Noddy Gull (A. utolida) upon its Nest,
Bird Key, Tortugas, where several thou-
sand OF these birds nest annually.
