456 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Summary.
Evolutionary study and thought have been hindered by the confu-
sion of two unrelated biological phenomena, (1) evolutionary progress
or vital motion, and (3) the origination or multiplication of species.
The origin of a species is not more evolutionary than any other stage
in its history. The causes of the subdivision of species are not causes
of vital motion; the two processes are quite distinct. The separation
of two species is not a focus of the evolutionary problem; it is a mere
incident of developmental history.
Segregation is the principle or active cause of the multiplication of
species, but the nature and causes of evolutionary progress are not to
be ascertained by discovering that species originate by subdivision.
Vital motion is continuous, and is neither actuated nor interrupted by
the segregation which multiplies species.
Natural selection may assist in the segregation of species, but it is
not a factor in evolutionary progress, except as it influences the direc-
tion of vital motion. Specific groups become diverse when the compo-
nent individuals no longer share their variations through interbreeding ;
not because new characters are induced by external influences. Evolu-
tionary divergence may take place under identical conditions, and in
characters which have no relation to the environment and no value to
the organism except to permit the necessary vital motion.
A stationary heredity or the continued repetition of an identical
structural type exists nowhere in nature ; variation is an inherent evolu-
tionary property. Segregation is not necessary for the preservation of
variations ; genetic variations are prepotent and are more rapidly propa-
gated by crossing with the parent form.
A second evolutionary property of organisms is symbasis, which has
built up the complex structure of the higher animals and plants by
combining individuals into the interbreeding groups called species.
The evolutionary species is not a complex of characters or a mere aggre-
gation of similar plants or animals; it is a protoplasmic network held
together by the interbreeding of the component individuals. Symbasis
accelerates vital motion, but hinders the multiplication of species.
Species and evolution are different aspects of the same fact; evolu-
tion goes forward within specific lines as a manifestation of the same
property which necessitates the existence of species ; variation and cross-
fertilization are not antagonistic i)henomena, but two phases of the
same creative process.
