HISTORICAL ASPECTS OF VEGETARIANISM. 457
SOME HISTOEICAL ASPECTS OF VEGETARIANISM.
By Dr. LAFAYETTE B. MENDEL,
PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY IN THE SHEFFIELD SCIENTIFIC SCHOOL OF YALE
UNIVERSITY.
YEGETARIANISM, as the term is popularly understood at the
present time, is a system of living which teaches that the food
of man should be derived directly from the plant world. Considered
in the light of its history, however, vegetarianism involves something
more than a mere dietetic program. It teaches that the use of animal
food is morally wrong, as well as erroneous with respect to the processes
of nutrition. The modern critics of the vegetarian propaganda have
frequently overlooked the fact that this doctrine has repeatedly, if not
always, been the expression of an ethical movement among its ex-
pounders; and that its development and transformation ought to be
considered with reference to sociological, economic and ethical condi-
tions as well as from the standpoint of physiology.
The use of fruits and vegetables as the appropriate food of man-
kind has found its advocates from earliest times. Pythagoras (500
B. C.) in particular has frequently been pointed out as the most emi-
nent teacher of vegetarianism among the ancients. It is obvious that
a philosophy of life which urged men to lead modest lives, to abstain
from indulgences of various kinds, and to seek simplicity in every
form, might readily and naturally proclaim the desirability of a
simple diet. Abstemiousness in the use of food and asceticism in
matters of conduct and religion were brought forth by the same atti-
tude toward the problems of the world, and found expression in vege-
tarianism as a simple mode of nutrition. For the vegetable foods are
as a rule easy to obtain and prepare for dietetic purposes. The praise
which the earlier moralists bestowed upon the vegetarian diet and mode
of living is merely an aspect of the reaction against the excesses of the
period. In Rousseaus Return to Nature likewise we find the advo-
cacy of a simple vegetable diet incidental to the proposed change to
primitive conditions of living and the striving for moderation in every
feature of society. And even to-day vegetarianism is defended by
arguments derived from purely ethical and religious, as well as from
economic or hygienic considerations. This peculiar sentiment which
defends and prescribes the exclusive use of vegetable foods in the
struggle against immorality and the attempt to establish a more vir-
tuous community is expressed by Tolstoi in words illustrating how
