458^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
extensively non-physiological considerations are still drawn upon in
justif3dng vegetarianism. He writes: The individual who endeavors
to exercise abstemiousness will unavoidably be obliged to abide by a
fixed rule, the first element in which is abstemiousness in eating —
fasting. But if he fasts and strives earnestly and zealously to lead a
good life, he must, above all things, abstain from animal foods. For
aside from the incitement of the passions which is provoked by these
foods, it is decidedly improper to partake of them for the reason that
they call for a procedure which is revolting to our moral feelings,
namely, the act of putting to death. *
It has frequently been pointed out that the apostles of the non-
animal diet have been individuals imbued with unusual views of life
and the ways of the world. As in earliest times religious motives were
the underlying factors in the prescription of rules of living, so in sub-
sequent periods it has usually been some idealistic conception of the
problems of existence which determined the vegetarian doctrine of the
time. The political dreamer and the philosophical visionary represent
types of men in whom the striving for a new order of doing found
expression. No period of history has lacked individuals who fail to
find in existing systems the Utopia of their dreams. The traits of
mind here referred to are exemplified in the poets Byron and Shelley,
both of whom the vegetarians have been proud and eager to include
within their ranks. It is needless to refer to the eccentricities or the
remarkable genius of either. It is well known of the one that his mor-
bid disposition was not infrequently roused and irritated; of the other
it has been said that his imagination preponderated over judgment
and reason. Some light is perhaps thrown upon the real attitude of
the poet in the subject under discussion by the following lines from
Shelleys Queen Mab (VIII.) :
Here now the human being stands adorning
This loveliest earth, with taintless body and mind ;
Blest from his birth with all bland impulses,
Which gently in his bosom wake
All kindly passions and all pure desires.
• ••*••*••*
And man, once fleeting oer the transient scene
Swift as an unremembered vision, stands
Immortal upon earth. No longer now
He slays the lamb that looks him in the face,
And horribly devours his mangled flesh,
Which still avenging natures broken law,
Kindled all putrid humours in his frame.
All evil passions, and all vain belief.
Hatred, despair, and loathing in his mind,
* Tolstoi: Die erste Stufe, 1892, quoted from Albu: Die vegetarische
Diat, 1902.
