HISTORICAL ASPECTS OF VEGETARIANISM. 459
The germs of misery, death, disease and crime.
No longer now the winged habitants.
That in the woods their sweet lives sing away,
Flee from the form of man, ...
All things are void of terror; man has lost
His terrible prerogative, and stands
An equal amidst equals. Happiness
And science dawn though late upon the earth;
Peace cheers the mind, health renovates the frame.
Lord Byron evidently believed that flesh eating excites men to war
and bloodshed ; thus he testifies in Don Jnan ( Canto II. ) :
Tliat Pasiphae promoted breeding cattle.
To make the Cretans bloodier in battle.
For we all know that English people are
Fed upon beef — I wont say much of beer
Because tis liquor only, and being far
From this my subject, has no business here:
We know, too, they are very fond of war,
A pleasure — like all pleasures — rather dear;
So were the Cretans — from which I infer.
That beef and battles both were owing to her.
The beginning of the modern vegetarian movement is usually dated
from the publication of an essay entitled : Eeturn to nature, or defence
of vegetable regime/ by I. Newton (London, 1811). To the influence
of this, the formation of the first vegetarian society by Joseph Simpson
in Manchester, England, in 1847, is ascribed; and so far as I am aware
the word vegetarian was coined at this time. A similar society is re-
ported to have been formed in the United States in 1850. The use
of a vegetable diet had, however, been advocated and practised over a
century before, as the following extract from Benjamin Franklins
autobiography testifies. Eef erring to about the year 1722 he said:
When about sixteen years of age, I happened to meet with a book, written
by one Tryon, recommending a vegetable diet. I determined to go into it. My
brother, being yet unmarried, did not keep house, but boarded himself and his
apprentices in another family. My refusing to eat flesh occasioned an incon-
venience, and I was frequently chid for my singularity. I made myself ac-
quainted with Tryons manner of preparing some of his dishes, such as boiling
potatoes or rice, making hasty-pudding and a few others, and then proposed
to my brother, that if he would give me weekly half the money he paid for
my board, I would board myself. He instantly agreed to it, and I presently
found that I could save half what he paid me. This was an additional fund
for buying of books; but I had another advantage in it. My brother and the
rest going from the printing house to their meals, I remained there alone, and,
dispatching presently my light repast (which was often no more than a biscuit,
or a slice of bread, a handful of raisins, or a tart from the pastry cooks, and
a glass of water) J had the rest of the time till their return for study; in
which I made the greater progress from that greater clearness of head and
quicker apprehension, which generally attend temperance in eating and drink-
