46o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing. Now it was, that, being on some occasion made ashamed of my ignorance
in figures, which I had twice failed learning when at school, I took Crockers
book on Arithmetic, and went through the whole by myself with the greatest
ease. (Sparkss Life of Franklin, p. 19).
The early literature of the vegetarian movement in this country
indicates a greater tendency toward the substitution of arguments
based on scientific observation in place of purely sentimental consid-
erations than do the trans- Atlantic publications of similar date. It
must not be inferred from this statement, however, that visionary and
unscientific doctrines were wanting. Evidence to the contrary is
readily available. In 1833 the Boylston Medical Committee of Har-
vard University offered a prize for the best dissertation on the follow-
ing question : What diet can be selected which will ensure the greatest
probable health and strength to the laborer in the climate of jSTew Eng-
land? quantity and quality, and the time and manner of taking it, to
be considered. The prize was awarded to Dr. Luther V. Bell, whose
essay (1836) may still be read with interest. The status of the prop-
aganda against flesh-eating as summarized by him is quoted here,
since it indicates how similar have been the personal characteristics
and motives of the vegetarian advocates in the most widely separated
localities. Bell wrote:
Some extraordinary, and to the improfessional class, doubtless novel, views
in regard to diet were broached and have since been pressed upon attention,
and that too by at least some men of scientific reputation, ingenious lecturers
and individuals who from weight of personal character, or their position before
the public, possess no limited influence. They have persuaded themselves, and
labored hard to proselyte to their owai faith, that the use of animal food in all
its forms and varieties, is a custom, unnatural, injurious to bodily health, and
even prejudicial to intellectual and moral sanity; — a custom at once unneces-
sary and inexpedient. How far, or how durably, they may have impressed the
public with their views, time only can show; at present it need only be said,
that such effect has at least been produced, as to raise a laudable curiosity and
wish for the truth, in the minds of many, deserving to be gratified.
Bell adds the following interesting remarks:
Their views are by no means new or original. They date their origin at
least as far back as the ancients, and they have been received in every century
from the time of Pythagoras to the days of the philosopher of Geneva (Rous-
seau). It is not intended to deny the right of ingenious men to propose
innovations, and it is a fortunate circumstance that the public is as much too
slow in coming into a practical acknowledgment of new truths, as men of
erratic and visionary genius are too sanguine in promulgating and inculcating
new hypotheses. It is dangerous to unsettle long established truth, for it is
difficult to limit the extent of error. The gratification of a morbid desire to
be distinguished as the propagator of new principles in philosophy, or as the
head of a new sect, is not the only result to be expected from such heresies.
New opinions or doctrines, whether true or false, will have admirers and
followers, and will lead to practical results, and the errors of one man may
lead thousands into the same vortex. (Bell, A dissertation on the Boylston
prize question for 1835, pp. 6-7.)
