HISTORICAL ASPECTS OF VEGETARIANISM. 461
The conclusions to which Bells study led him are worthy of brief
mention. He summarized as follows:
1. A diet of both animal and vegetable food is adapted to the condition of
the New England laborer.
2. No grand errors exist in his present system of diet, and no radical
change is demanded to ensure a greater amount of health and strength, though
many minor, but still important errors exist.
3. The proportion of animal food usually customary is too great, and a
considerable reduction would be expedient and advantageous, though it is im-
practicable to make a precise statement of the extent to which this is required,
which must depend upon circumstances, as amount of labor performed, climate,
season, bodily constitution, habits of life, etc. A general statement of this fact
can alone be made.
4. The amount of food in general, customarily used, is more than is neces-
sary for the maximum of health and strength, though a more specific state-
ment of this abuse is also impossible. It must be left for each individual to
attempt to reduce his quantity of food to that point at which he finds his
mental and bodily powers most energetic. In searching for this point the New
Englander may be almost certain that he must look for it in descending ratio.
5. The great principle in regulating diet is to regard quantity rather than
kind.
Most students of dietetics will, I think, readily admit the validity
of the majority of these statements, even in their application at the
present day. In contrasting the conditions during colonial days with
those prevailing in our own times it is entertaining, if nothing more,
to recall some ideas regarding the diet of the people of the United
States at the end of the eighteenth century which were published by
the French traveler Volney.* A grain of truth may doubtless be
gathered from his vivid observations, even though they can not be
taken too seriously. Thus he writes:
I will venture to say that if a prize were proposed for the scheme of a
regimen most calculated to injure the stomach, the teeth, and the health in
general, no better could be invented than that of Americans. In the morning
at breakfast, they deluge their stomach with a quart of hot water, impregnated
with tea, or slightly so with coffee; that is, mere colored water, and they swal-
low, almost without chewing, hot bread, half baked toast soaked in butter,
cheese of the fattest kind, slices of salt or hung beef, ham, etc., all of which are
nearly insoluble. At dinner, they have boiled pastes under the name of pud-
dings, and the fattest are esteemed the most delicious; all their sauces, even
for roasted beef, are melted butter; their turnips and potatoes SAvim in lard,
butter or fat; under the name of pie or pvimpkin (pumpkin pie?) their pastry
is nothing but a greasy paste, never suiBciently baked; to digest these sub-
stances they take tea almost instantly after dinner, making it so strong that it
is absolutely bitter to the taste, in which state it affects the nerves so power-
fully that even the English find it brings on more obstinate restlessness than
coffee. Supper again introduces salt meats or oysters: as Chastelux says, the
whole day passes in heaping indigestions on one another; and to give tone to
the poor relaxed and wearied stomach, they drink Madeira rum, French
* View of the climate and soil of the U. S. of America, by C. F. Volney.
