462 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
brandy, gin or malt spirits, which complete the ruin of the nervous system.
(Quoted by Bell, pp. 23-24.)
The vegetable diet found an enthusiastic champion in America in
the person of Dr. W. A. Alcott, who published a small volume on the
subject in 1838. In the preface he tells us: When I commenced
putting together the materials of this little treatise on diet it was my
intention simply to show the safety of a vegetable and fruit diet, both
for those who are afflicted with many forms of chronic disease, and for
the healthy. But I soon became convinced that I ought to go farther,
and prove its supeeiokity over every other. This the author at-
tempted to do by an appeal to contemporary medical men and by a
compilation of the anatomical, the physiological, the medical, the
political, the economical, the experimental and the moral arguments
then prevalent. But the individual who probably did more than any
other in this country to reduce the subject of vegetable dietetics to a
system was Sylvester Graham. This eccentric reformer, remembered
to-day in connection with the bread which familiarly bears his name,
was an enthusiastic temperance advocate, who insisted that the craving
for drink can only be combated by the use of a judicious diet in con-
nection with correct habits of living. His belief that an exclusively
farinaceous and fruit diet is best adapted to the development and im-
provement of all powers of body, mind and soul was set forth for many
years both in public lectures and in writings, among which the Gra-
ham Lectures on the Science of Human Life (2 vols., 1839) were per-
haps most widely quoted in vegetarian literature. About 1837 there
was formed an American Physiological Society of two hundred mem-
bers, nearly all of whom, as well as their families, abstained from
animal food. (Of. Alcott, Vegetable Diet, p. 219.)
The characteristic features of the vegetarian movement in England
are set forth in the Constitution of the Vegetarian Society of Man-
chester, to which reference has already been made. The objects were:
To induce habits of Abstinence from the Flesh of Animals as Food, by the
dissemination of information upon the subject, by means of tracts, essays and
lectures, proving the many advantages of a physical, intellectual and moral
character, resulting from Vegetarian habits of Diet; and thus, to secure,
through the association, example and efforts of its members, the adoption of a
principle which will tend essentially to true civilization, to universal brother-
hood, and to the increase of human happiness generally.
As early as 1829 there existed in England a Society of Bible Chris-
tians, of which a member wrote as follows :
The Society of Bible Christians abstain from animal food, not only in
obedience to the Divine command, but because it is an observance which, if
more generally adopted, would prevent much cruelty, luxury and disease, be-
sides many other evils which cause misery in Society. It would be productive
of much good, by promoting health, long life, and happiness, and thus be a
