• HISTORICAL ASPECTS OF VEGETARIANISM. 463
most effectual means of reforming mankind. It would entirely abolish that
greatest of curses, ivar; for those who are so conscientious as not to kill ani-
mals, will never murder human beings. On all these accounts the system can
not be too much recommended. The practice of abstaining can not be wrong;
it must therefore be some consolation to be on the side of duty. If we err, we
err on the sure side: it is innocent; it is infinitely better authorized and more
nearly associated with religion, virtue and humanity than the contrary practice.
(Cf. Alcott, pp. 214-215.)
One more quotation must suffice to indicate the spirit of the early
modern vegetarian literature. Its author was J. A. Gleizes, an ec-
centric writer of several volumes, who became a favorite of the Vege-
tarian Society. In the preface to Thalysie, ou la nouvelle existence
(3 vols., 1840-1842) he wrote:
Je me propose dy demonstrer:
1°. Que Ihomme nest point animal de proie; quil est, au contraire, par sa
nature, la plus douce de toutes les creatures, ainsi que devait Igtre la dernire
et la plus noble expression dun Dieu grand, bon et juste.
2°. Que le meurtre des animaux est la principale source de ses erreurs et
de ses crimes, comme Iusage de se nourrir de leur chair est la cause prochaine
de sa laideur, de ses maladies, et de la court dur#e de son existence.
3°. Que cet 6tat d^garement est dans une opposition directe avec sa
destin^e ult^rieure dans le sens commungment attache a ce mot, autrement
dit, la vie hors de la terre; tandis que la privation de cet acte, ou, pour parler
positif, le regime des herbes, dgveloppe en lui la beautg Iintelligence, la vertu,
et le fruit immortel qui en est le dernier rgsultat.
It is unnecessary to multiply examples in order to emphasize how
diverse have been the actuating impulses of the vegetarians of history.
Like England and America, Germany has had its vegetarian movement
which developed particularly under the leadership of Ed. Baltzer. The
first German vegetarian society was founded by him in 1869. Here, as
elsewhere, the system proposed has never received broad recognition
among the masses of the people, but has rather been confined to small
bands of enthusiasts. Even among the latter there is no unanimity
of plan. The most radical reformers have abstained not alone from
all food of animal origin, but also from tubers and underground roots,
eating only fruits and vegetables grown in the sunlight; others again
reject the cereals and live on fruits, nuts and milk; while the most
conservative exclude only fish, flesh and fowl from their diet. Among
the latter groups may be arranged the so-called fruitarians who abstain
from all food obtained by infliction of pain. The student of the psy-
chology of the vegetarian faith can not fail to be impressed by the
diversity of the elements which have convinced its expounders. Phys-
iological and anatomical arguments based on the comparative structure
and functions of the digestive organs have vied with considerations of
economy, morality and religion. From the standpoint of hygiene, the
dangers of disease lurking in animal flesh have been pointed out; to
other persons the encouragement of horticulture and the racial im-
