464 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
provement incidental to an active agricultural life have offered an at-
tractive theme. The vegetable kingdom can satisfy all. If any
vegetarians be extravagant in milk and eggs, it is not from any craving
of their stomachs, but from excess in zeal or ignorance in their cooks.
(Newman, Frazers Magazine, February, 1875.) Finally the Bible
itself has been drawn upon to furnish lasting proof: Behold, I have
given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the
earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed;
to you it shall be for meat. (Genesis, i., 29.)
The advocates of the vegetarian diet at the present day are no less
ready to draw upon the diverse types of argument already discussed
than were their predecessors of fifty years ago. In a recent volume,
entitled The Living Temple (1903), Dr. J. H. Kellogg, urging the
use of non-meat diet, has presented the ethics of flesh-eating in the
following light:
Tlie basis for the ethical argument against flesh-eating is to be found in
the fact that the lower animals are^ in common with man, sentient creatures.
We have somehow become accustomed to think of our inferior brethren, the
members of the lower orders of the animal kingdom, as things; . . . We are
wrong in this; they are not things, but beings. ... A horse or a cow can
learn, remember, love, hate, mourn, rejoice, and suffer, as human beings do.
Its sphere of life is certainly not so great as mans, but life is not the less
real and not the less precious to it; and the fact that the quadruped has little
is not a good and sufficient reason why the biped, who has much, should
deprive his brother of the little that he hath. For the most part it must be
said that the lower animals have adhered far more closely to the divine order
established for them than has man.
The divine order, as clearly shown by nature as well as by revelation, and
by the traditions of the ancient world, and illustrated by the present practice
of a great part of the human race makes the vegetable world the means of
gathering and storing energy and making it into forms usable by the sentient
beings that compose the animal world, the one gathering and storing that the
other may expend. When animal eats vegetable, there is no pain, no sorrow,
no sadness, no robbery, no deprivation of happiness. No eyes forever shut to the
sunlight they were made to see, no ears closed to the sweet melodies they were
made to hear, no simple delights denied to the beings that God made to enjoy
life — the same life that He gave to his human children. (Pp. 184-185.)
On the other hand, we may recall Eobert Louis Stevensons ap-
parent defense of cannibalism among some of the peoples inhabiting
the South Sea Islands, He writes:
How shall we account for the universality of the practice over so vast an
area, among people of such varying civilization, and, with whatever inter-
mixture, of such different blood? What circumstance is common to them all,
but that they lived on islands destitute, or very nearly so, of animal food? I
can never find it in my appetite that man was meant to live on vegetables only.
When our stores ran low among the islands, I grew too weary for the recurrent
day when economy allowed us to open another tin of miserable mutton. And
in at least one ocean language, a particular word denotes that a man is
