472 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Even athletics are not wanting in this eastern university. The
athletic club consists of seven sections — rowing, track athletics, base-
ball, football, lawn tennis, swimming. Judo (a kind of wrestling),
fencing and archery. In the spring, when the rosy cloud of cherry
blossoms covers the bank of the Eiver Sumida, the rowing club holds
a regatta. In the autumn the athletic section holds a meeting in the
recreation ground of the university. Eunning, jumping, hurdle races,
etc., last the whole afternoon, and the scene is as animated as even
a Yale-Princeton rooter could wish; the sloping hillside of the arena-
like ground is filled with cheering crowds, and the mingling of cos-
tumes, colors and gestures add to the animation of the scene. In the
matter of supplemental athletics, we may note that swimming is given
a conspicuous place; a teacher even takes volunteer students under his
charge during the summer vacation.
As a special development in the research work of the university one
might briefly mention the laboratory for the study of earthquakes,
which occur so frequently, and often, indeed, with dangerous results.
And it was with the aim of studying these phenomena, from stand-
points both of applied and of pure science, that the seismological ob-
servatory was founded in 1880. It has since been in charge of Pro-
fessors Sekiya and Omoiri. In fact it is due to the researches of these
scientists that the horizontal pendulum and the vertical motion seismo-
graphs were designed. By means of these delicate instruments it is
possible to measure earthquakes and other earth movements of different
grades of magnitude, ranging from microscopic tremors and pulsations
up to destructive earthquakes. The instruments are so sensitive that
an earthquake in England can be recorded in Japan, and from this the
rate of traveling of seismic waves has been calculated. There has also
been set up recently a horizontal pendulum for continuous registra-
tions. These are an interesting collection, showing the development
of seismographs from crude Chinese devices to the most elaborate and
modern apparatus.
In the zoological museum there are the splendid collections of the
glassy sponges. Hundreds of valuable specimens have been collected
through Professor Ijimas constant and earnest exploration of the
Sagami Bay. They are so fragile that they might easily be crumbled
into pieces by the fishermans rough hands. One may easily conceive
how still is the abyss of 200 fathoms. The first two parts of beautiful
monographs have come from the hands of Professor Ijima, who has
been working on these delicate creatures for over ten years. Besides
this collection, there are hundreds of curious creatures peculiar to
Japan, rare specimens which arouse the enthusiasm and possibly even
the envy of our foreign confreres. Indeed, every year forms which
are new to science come to the museum. In connection with the sci-
