474
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE PKOGRESS OF SCIENCE.
IMMANUEL KANT.
The centenary of the death of Kant
was commemorated on February 12.
There was a special celebration at
Konigsberg, where the philosopher
spent his whole life; a monument is
planned for Berlin, and a Kant Society
has been formed in Germany. It
would probably be difficult for most
readers of a scientific journal to ex-
plain why Kant is one of the great
men of the world, and next to Aristotle
the most honored philosopher. In the
preface to his Kritik der reinen
Vernunft Kant expressed his own view
of the service he hoped to accomplish
in the following words: In meta-
physical speculation it has always been
assumed that all our knowledge must
conform to objects; but all attempts
from this point of view to extend our
knowledge of objects a priori by means
of conception have ended in failure.
It is well to ask, therefore, whether
greater progress may not be made by
supposing that objects must conform
to our knowledge. This would clearly
agree better with the desired possi-
bility of such an c priori knowledge
of objects that could establish some-
thing about them before they are pre-
sented. Our suggestion is similar to
that of Copernicus in astronomy, who,
finding it impossible to explain the
movements of the heavenly bodies on
the supposition that they turned round
the spectator, tried whether he might
not succeed better by supposing the
spectator to revolve and the stars to
remain at rest. Let us make a simi-
lar experiment in metaphysics with
perception.
Kants rather remarkable lack of ap-
preciation of the work of his predeces-
sors led him to emphasize unduly the
novelty of his own point of view. Yet
subsequent philosophers have tended
quite generally to regard him as its
most representative exponent. And he
forced the issue with such energy as to
make himself the most prominent fig-
ure in the philosophy of the last cen-
tury. He asserted repeatedly that we
do possess knowledge of objects which
is universal and necessary, and he as-
serted with no less frequency that in
all such cases our knowledge has not
conformed to objects, but objects have
conformed to the necessities of thought.
Just because we find that we must
think of objects in a certain way, we
must admit that this necessity springs
from thought itself. In spite of the
fact that this assumption is far from
self-evident, Kant succeeded in impo-
sing it upon his time with remarkable
success. The philosophy of the nine-
teenth century witnessed as a result
many noteworthy attempts to deter-
mine what reality must be by reference
to the necessities of thought alone.
The absurdities of Schelling and the
subtleties of Hegel mark, perhaps, the
extremes of this tendency.
But the significance of Kant is not
seen only in this new inspiration given
to the attempt to determine, not what
reality is, but what it must be. For
his philosophy had its negative side,
which contained an equally important
emphasis. Just because what we must
think is due to the necessities of
thought, we have no right, he urged, to
extend the results of such thinking be-
yond thought itself and so pass to
things as they are. Exterior to
thought, beyond its controlling in-
fluence, they escape us utterly. The
significance of this important limita-
tion Kant exhibited most crucially
when he criticized all attempts of
speculative thinking to establish the
