476
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of morality itself becomes, therefore,
the guarantee of their existence. Prac-
tise thus gives what speculation fails
to give. So after all the theologian could
take courage from the Kantian phi-
losophy, and the pragmatism of to-day
could find a basis in the searching
criticism of the Konigsberg professor.
The significance of Kant for modern
philosophy has thus been wide and
varied. He has been at once an inspira-
tion and a check to free speculation,
and also a source of renewed progress
in moral and religious inquiry. Yet,
it must be admitted that his impor-
tance has waned considerably in re-
cent years. His central idea that there
are necessities of thought and practise
which of themselves significantly de-
termine the content of our knowledge
and belief has come to lack its author-
itative tone. This has been brought
about not so much by direct refutation
as by the steady advance in stability
of scientific knowledge, which insists
that we can be really compelled only
by the exigencies of the things with
which we deal. Kant in his early
years was no mean scientist. Indeed
he thought that his philosophy could
give to science its only stable basis and
its only correct interpretation. The
result is in striking contrast with his
conviction.
RECENT PROGRESS IN THE STUDY
OF RADIOACTIVITY.
The dream of the alchemists had
without doubt a strong philosophical
foundation, and although the desire to
accomplish transmutations of the ele-
ments has lost all power as an incen-
tive to the study of natural phenomena,
one can not help noticing the small
amount of reverence modern physics
has for the identity of the atom of a
chemical element. The electronic
theory of matter, well set forth by Sir
Oliver Lodge in his Romanes lecture
at Oxford, which was published in this
magazine last August, holds that there
is no more difTerence between the atoms
of the different elements than between
houses of different shapes and sizes,
but built of the same kind of bricks,
the little electrons being the bricks of
which the atoms are built, although
the structure of an atom is more like
that of a planetary system than that
of a house. Confidence in the stability
of this structure in the case of ordinary
atoms has not been shown to be mis-
placed, but in the case of the radio-
active substances — elements they are by
the usual tests — evidence of atomic dis-
integration continues to accumulate.
Their radiations consist chiefly of pro-
jected particles, far smaller than the
atoms of the radioactive elements, and,
as Professor Rutherford and Mr. Soddy
have shown, the radioactive matter
passes successively through a series of
unstable forms. The final product of
this atomic disintegration must be
stable and therefore not radioactive,
and since the gas helivim is found in
all radioactive minerals it is suggested
that helium is one of the stable resi-
dues left by the heavy and unstable
radioactive atoms.
During the past summer Professor
Ramsay, the discoverer of terrestrial
helium, and Mr. Soddy followed up
this suggestion with experiments and
came to the conclusion that helium is
continuously produced by radium. The
experiments consisted in examining in
a spark tube the spectrum of the radio-
active gas, or emanation, given on dis-
solving in water fifty milligrams of
nearly pure radium bromide that had
been in the solid state for some time.
This radioactive gas is not stable, but
decays in a geometrical progression
with the time, the rate being about
half in four days. Of course the most
careful precautions were taken to free
the spark tube from foreign gases, es-
pecially hydrogen, oxygen and carbon
dioxide. When first prepared the tube
gave a new and hitherto unknown
spectrum, probably that of the radio-
active gas. After four days the lines
of the helium spectrum began to ap-
pear, growing brighter for several days,
while the new spectrum observed at
