THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
477
first disappeared. The supposition is
that the helium is the product of the
atomic decomposition of the radio-
active gas. It may be argued that the
experiments only prove that radium is
not an element, but only a compound
of staple elements. On the other hand,
the production of this radioactive gas
is not influenced by changes of tempera-
ture, which is true of no chemical pro-
cess, and is accompanied by radioac-
tivity, which is not a phenomenon of
chemical changes.
examined contained one eleven-hun-
dredth as much radium as pitchblende,
the ore from which radium is extracted.
Radium salts are found to give off heat
at a very considerable rate. M. Curie
estimates that radium can melt its
weight of ice in an hour. A more ex-
act investigation by Rutherford and
Barnes shows that the radioactive gas
and the secondary activity are the
chief sources of the heating effect.
The treatment of certain diseases,
particularly of cancer and lupus, by
M. AND Mme. Cukie in theik Labokatory.
The wide distribution of radioactive
matter has been brought to light by
the work of Professors Elster and
Geitel in Germany on the radioactivity
of the atmosphere and soils, and by a
number of observers under the leader-
ship of Professor J. J. Thomson on the
presence of a radioactive gas in many
spring and well waters. Elster and
Geitel discovered that clay is much
more active than other soils, appar-
ently from the presence of a trace of
radium, though much depends on the
locality. A certain clay which they
means of radium radiation continues
to attract much attention from physi-
cians both in this country and in
Europe. A committee appointed by the
Vienna Academy of Science to investi-
gate the results of the treatment of
cancer with radium reported that in
nine cases in which the treatment was
used abatement in the cancerous swell-
ing resulted and in two of these cases
the swelling had not reappeared after
tive months time. A case of cancer
of the palate was much improved by
the treatment. The use of radium is
