THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
479
SCHEME P*J 2
Administration Building. Plan of Second Floor.
Utah. These efforts have met with
some degree of success, but radium
from carnotite is not yet on the market.
NEW BUILDINGS FOR THE DE-
PARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AT WASHINGTON.
The plans for the new buildings for
the National Department of Agricul-
ture contemplate a group of ten build-
ings, arranged in the form of a quad-
rangle, with an administration build-
ing as the central feature. The nine
laboratory buildings will be units, and
will be connected with the administra-
tion building by covered corridors.
They will be 60 by 200 feet each in
size and 4 stories in height above a
high, well-lighted basement. The ad-
ministration building will be about 135
by 160 feet and 5 stories high. The
latter, with a laboratory building on
either side, will present an imposing
front of 700 feet, which will face south
on the broad parkway planned to ex-
tend from the Capitol to the Wash-
ington Monument.
The appropriation of $1,500,000
made by congress will provide for the i
erection of three laboratory buildings,
leaving the administration building
and the others to be provided for later.
As the new site is some distance re-
moved from the site of the present
buildings, the latter can remain in use
in the meantime. The three new build-
ings will provide accommodations for
the laboratories and offices of the de-
partment now occupying rented build-
ings, as was directed by congress.
The buildings will be classic in de-
sign and will probably be built of
marble. The construction will be of
j the most substantial character, with
thick walls carrying heating and venti-
I lating flues. The interior space will
be divided into units 20 by 20 feet, and
each unit will have access to a conduit
furnishing water, steam, gas, electric-
I ity, air pressure and exhaust. The
I actual arrangement of the laboratories
has not yet been settled, nor has it
been definitely decided which three of
the laboratory buildings will be erected
I now.
The department is now occupying
I very inadequate and in many cases
temporary quarters, and is paying an
annual rental of about $25,000 for
buildings located outside the depart-
ment grounds. Its main building was
long since condemned and is in no
sense a modern structure. The staff
of the department at the time it was
erected included less than 100 persons;
the present enrollment is about 4,200
