48o
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
persons. A group of buildings in keep-
ing with the dignity and importance of
agriculture in our national economy
and significant of the service of the
Department of Agriculture to the coun-
try at large, is greatly to be desired.
A year from now congress will probably
be asked to provide further funds, so
that the administration building (esti-
mated to cost $1,000,000) and possibly
other laboratory buildings may be
erected.
SCIENTIFIC ITEMS.
We regret to announce the deaths of
Dr. Charles Emerson Beecher, professor
of historical geology at Yale University
and a member of the governing board
of the Sheffield Scientific School ; of
Dr. Emil Alexander de Schweinitz,
chief of the Biochemic Division, U. S.
Department of Agriculture; of Arthur
William Palmer, D.Sc. (Harvard), head
of the Department of Chemistry of the
University of Illinois, and of Miss
Anna Winlock, computer and assistant
in the Harvard College Observatory.
Dr. David Duncan, having been en-
trusted by the late Mr. Herbert Spencer
with the writing of his biography, will
be obliged to persons who may possess
letters from him of value if they will
kindly lend them for the purpose of
such biograpny. All letters addressed
to Dr. D. Duncan, care of H. R. Tedder,
Esq., secretary, the Athenaeum, Pall-
mall, London, S. W., will be carefully
preserved and returned in due course
to their o^vners. Mr. Spencers auto-
biography will be published by Messrs.
D. Appleton Co., on March 25.
The steamship Princess Irene, bring-
ing the remains of James Smithson,
arrived in New York on January 20.
These were transferred to the Dolphin
of the U. S. Navy and taken to Wash-
ington. They have been deposited in
the Smithsonian Institution until ar-
rangements can be made for suitable
burial in the grounds of the institution
and the erection of a monument. The
remains were brought to this country
by Dr. A. Graham Bell, at whose in-
stance the regents arranged for the
removal, owing to the fact that the
English cemetery at Genoa in which
Smithson was buried was to be aban-
doned.
At the annual meeting of the Royal
Astronomical Society on February 12,
Ambassador Choate received the so-
cietys gold medal on behalf of Pro-
fessor George E. Hale, of the Yerkes
Observatory. — The Lalande prize in
astronomy has been conferred upon
Director W. W. Campbell, of the Lick
Observatory, by the Paris Academy of
Sciences. — The French minister of pub-
lic instruction and fine arts has con-
ferred the degree of officer of public
instruction upon Dr. Lester F. Ward
for his scientific and sociological works.
