RECENT DISCOVERIES IN RADIATION. 483
was to expose uranium to strong sunlight for a long time, and then to
notice whether a photographic plate, which was wrapped up carefully
in perfectly opaque paper and placed beneath the uranium, received any
impression from it. He found that it did; but he further found that
the exposure of the uranium to sunlight was altogether unnecessary;
that the uranium itself in a perfectly dark room would affect, in the
course of ten or twenty days, a photographic plate from which it was
separated both by opaque black paper and by a thin sheet of metal. In
fact he obtained in this way a radiograph of a metallic object similar
in all respects to the pictures which Rontgen had obtained with X-rays.
This showed, in the first place, that the fluorescent light had nothing
whatever to do with the production of the photograph, but it showed also
something much more important than this, namely, that the mineral
uranium is all the time spontaneously emitting rays of some sort,
which are capable of penetrating opaque objects in just the way the
X-rays do.
This discovery, which has been one of the most fruitful in the
history of science, is immediately due to the accident of a few cloudy
days in Paris, during which Becquerel, since he could not expose his
uranium to sunlight, set away his plate with the uranium on the top
of it, to wait for fair weather. When the fair weather returned and
he was ready to continue his experiments, it fortunately occurred to
him that it might be worth while to develop the plate upon which the
uranium had rested to see if anything had happened to it. The dis-
covery of radio-activity was the result. Those who recall the story
of the discovery of photography will remember that it was made quite
as accidentally and under quite similar circumstances.
Becquerel further found that the rays emitted by uranium are
also emitted by all uranium compounds. He therefore named them
uranium rays. Another property which he found that the rays pos-
sessed, in addition to that of affecting a photographic plate, was the
important property of rendering a gas through which they pass a
conductor of electricity, or, to state the same thing in another way,
the property of discharging any electrified body which is brought into
their neighborhood.
The Discovery of Radium.
It was but a few months after this that Madame Curie, one of the
few women who has attained eminence in the pursuit of science, and
who together with her husband, with whom most of her work has been
done, deserves a large share of the credit for our present knowledge of
radium, set about investigating all the then known elements to see if
any of the rest of them possessed this remarkable property which
Becquerel discovered in uranium. She found that one, and but one,
of the remainder of the elements, namely, thorium, the element which is
one of the chief constituents of Welsbach mantles, was capable of pro-
