484 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ducing precisely the same effects whicli Becquerel had discovered with
uranium. After this discovery the rays from all this class of sub-
stances began to be called Becquerel rays, in honor of Becquerel, and
all substances which emitted such rays were called radio-active sub-
stances.
But in connection with this investigation, Madame Curie noticed
something which appeared to her very noteworthy. It was that pitch-
blend, which is the crude ore from which uranium is extracted and
which consists chiefly of uranium oxide, would produce an effect upon a
photographic plate, or would discharge an electrified body, in about
one fourth the time in which the same weight of a pure uranium salt
would produce the same effect. She inferred, therefore, that the
activity of pitchblend in emitting rays could not be due solely to the
uranium contained in it : that, on the contrary, pitchblend must con-
tain some hitherto unknown element which had the property of
emitting Becquerel rays more powerfully than uranium itself. She
therefore immediately set about the task of separating as carefully as
possible the dozen or so of substances which are contained in pitch-
blend, such for example, as uranium, barium, lead, copper, arsenic,
antimony, and so on, and after each separation, testing the two por-
tions separated to find which part carried with it the activity, that is,
the ability to affect a photographic plate or to discharge an electrically
charged body. The methods employed were the ordinary ones used in
qualitative chemical analysis. The search was a long and difficult one,
but ended triumphantly in the separation from several tons of pitch-
blend of two or three grains of the new element which has now become
one of the wonders of the world.
The successive steps in this discovery were as follows: Madame
Curie found, first, that in this process of separation of the constituents
of pitchblend, the reagent which separated the barium out of the
solution also brought down in the barium precipitate a large part of
the activity. The barium chloride precipitate obtained in this way
had about sixty times the activity of pure uranium chloride. She next
found that when alcohol was added to a solution of this barium
chloride, the first precipitate which was thus formed was more active
than that which came down later. By retaining only this first pre-
cipitate and discarding the rest, and again redissolving and repeating
the process over and over again (this process is called fractional
precipitation) she succeeded in obtaining a sample of barium chloride
which was 4,000 times as active as uranium chloride. Further, since
the weight of the barium chloride for a given weight of contained
chlorine was greater in the ratio 140 to 137 than the weight of ordinary
inactive barium chloride for the same weight of contained chlorine, she
concluded that the apparent activity of the barium chloride could not
be due to barium at all, but must be due to this unknown element which
