RECENT DISCOVERIES IN RADIATION. 485
was mixed with the barium in the precipitate. She therefore an-
nounced definitely the discovery of a new substance which she named
radium.
There is a second process, which is now more commonly used than
the above, for separating this active substance, that is, the radium,
from the barium with which it is always found. It is called the process
of fractional crystallization, and consists simply in retaining the first
crystals which crystallize out from an active barium chloride solution
and then redissolving these crystals and allowing some of them to
crystallize out again, and so on. With each new crystallization the
activity of the crystals per unit of weight increases. In this way the
Curies have recently obtained samples of radium which are as much as
1,800,000 times as active as uranium, the activity being measured by
comparing the rates at which equal weights of radium and uranium
will discharge an electrified body.
Having followed in this way the processes by which radium was
discovered as early as 1898, let us turn to some of the other results
which followed close upon the discovery of the X-rays, and which it is
necessary to understand something about before we can intelligently
discuss the nature of the radiation from radium and other radio-active
substances.
The Nature of Cathode Rays.
1 have said that X-rays are emitted by an exhausted bulb in which
an electrical discharge is passing, but the very existence of X-rays is
found to depend upon another kind of rays which are also connected
with the electrical discharge from an exhausted tube. These are called
the cathode rays because they originate in the negative electrode or
cathode, see Fig. 1, of a discharge tube when it is put into connection
Fig. 1. Illustrating Deflection of Cathode Rays by an Electrostatic Field.
with an induction coil or static machine. These cathode rays were
discovered long before X-rays. Fig. 1 will give some idea of how they
manifest themselves. If A and B are two diaphragms, in the middle
of which are two horizontal slits, then, when an induction coil is con-
nected to the points marked + and — and set into operation, a small
spot of greenish-yellow light will appear on the glass at P, just as though
some sort of rays were emitted in straight lines from C, and, passing
through the two openings 0, fell upon the point P. There are a great
many substances which, if placed anywhere in the line OP so that these
cathode rays from C can strike upon them, will light up with a charac-
