486
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
teristic glow. For example, if a screen coated with, zinc sulphide is
placed within a discharge tube in the manner shown in Fig. 3, the
cathode rays which pass through the slit in the mica diaphragm just
opposite the cathode, light it up brilliantly in the parts along which
they graze, and thus trace a distinct outline of their path from one
end of the tube to the other.
The nature of these rays was the subject of much dispute between
the years 1880, when they first began to be studied, and 1898. Some
thought them to be streams of minute negatively charged particles
shot off with enormous velocities from the cathode C, while others
maintained that they did not con-
sist of particles at all, but were
waves in the ether, just like light
waves. The dispute was finally
ended by two very conclusive ex-
periments performed, the first by
Perrin, a Frenchman, and the other
by J. J. Thomson, professor of
physics in Cambridge University,
England. Perrin s experiment
consisted in proving that under
all circumstances a body which
was placed along the path OP,
so that the cathode rays could
Showing Fig. 3. Showing De- fall upon it, became charged with
Cathode flection of Cathode , . ^ • •!_ • • 1 1
Rays by a Magnet, negative electricity, just as would
be expected if the cathode rays
consisted of negatively charged particles. J. J. Thomsons experi-
ment consisted in showing that if a charge of positive electricity were
placed upon the plate E (see Fig. 1), and a charge of negative electricity
upon the plate D, the rays were deflected out of the line OP and into
the path OP. This, too, was to have been expected if the rays con-
sist of negatively charged particles, for these particles would be repelled
by the negative electricity upon D and attracted by the positive elec-
tricity upon E.
There is a further property of the rays, which, although it had
long been known, adds powerful support to the projected particle
theory. It is that when a magnet is brought near the cathode beam
in the manner shown in Fig. 3, the beam is deflected by it also, just
as would be expected if it consisted of a stream of negatively charged
particles. These three experiments settled the question in favor of
the projected particle theory, so that physicists are now all agreed in
regarding the cathode rays as streams of minute, negatively charged
corpuscles shot off in straight lines from the surface of the negative
electrode and in a direction at right angles to this surface.
Fig. 2.
Beam of
Kays.
