RECENT DISCOVERIES IN RADIATION. 487
Cathode Ray Particles Much Smaller than the Smallest Known Atom.
But the most remarkable result of experiments upon cathode rays is
the conclusion that while they consist of rapidly moving particles, these
particles are not ordinary atoms or molecules, but are instead bodies
whose mass is only about one one-thousandth of the mass of the smallest
atom known, namely, the atom of hydrogen. The calculation by which
this conclusion is obtained is based upon a comparison of the amount
of deflection which is imparted to the rays by a magnet of known
strength, and the amount of deflection which is produced by electric
charges of known size on D and E. It can also be based upon other
experiments which will not here be described. Suffice it to say that
more than a dozen well-known physicists have made the observations
and the calculations upon which they are based, and that, although
they have worked by as many as three different methods, the results are
all in substantial agreement.
A New Theory as to the Constitution of Matter.
Furthermore, since experiments of the kind mentioned above always
lead to the same value for the mass of the cathode ray particle, no
matter what be the nature of the gas which is used in the bulb and no
matter what be the nature of the metal constituting the cathode Cj
physicists have found it necessary to conclude that these minute
particles are constituents of each and every one of the different metallic
elements at least, and probably of all the other elements also. In view
of these discoveries, the suggestion has been put forward by several of
the greatest living physicists, that these cathode particles are them-
selves the primordial atoms out of which the 70 odd atoms known to
ordinary chemistry are built up. According to this suggestion, the
chief difference between the different atoms of chemistry would consist
simply in differences in the number of the primordial atoms which enter
into them. Thus the hydrogen atom would be composed of about a
thousand of these minute corpuscles, or electrons, as they have been
called, the oxygen atom of 16,000, the mercury atom of 200,000, and
so on. It is necessary to assume, however, that these electrons are
half plus and half minus, for otherwise we can not account for the
uncharged condition of ordinary atoms. Since, however, no evidence
has as yet appeared to show that positively charged electrons ever
become detached from atoms, J. J. Thomson has brought forward the
hypothesis that perhaps the positive charges constitute the nucleus of
the atom, while the negative electrons are on the outside and are
therefore more easily detachable. It is too early to assert this theory
as correct; it is introduced here merely as a profoundly interesting
speculation brought forward by men high in authority in the scientific
world. It differs radically from most other speculations of the same
general nature, in that it is based upon a certain amount of experi-
