488 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mental evidence. However, the experiments can not be said to have
gone so far as to render its correctness even probable. This much,
however, it is safe to say: the experiments upon cathode rays have
proved conclusively that under some circumstances particles do exist
which are smaller than the ordinary atoms of chemistry. It was the
study of cathode rays, then, which first sounded the death-knell of the
indivisible atom of our earlier chemistry and prepared the way for the
discoveries, which were soon to follow, of subatomic transmutations
which involve the liberation of stored-up energies, the very existence
of which had never before been dreamed of .
The Nature of X-rays.
I have already said that cathode rays are very intimately connected
with X-rays, for both are associated with the discharge of electricity
in exhausted tubes. In fact, at the time of Eontgens discovery, many
physicists thought that the X-rays were nothing more nor less than
cathode rays which had passed through the walls of the tube into the
outside air. But Professor Eontgen demonstrated that the X-rays are
wholly different from the cathode rays in these two important respects,
namely: (1) they are not deflected in the slightest degree, either by a
magnet or by bodies charged with static electricity; (2) they do not
impart negative charges to objects upon which they fall. X-rays are
therefore not cathode rays. They originate at the point at which the
cathode rays strike against the walls of the tube, or against any object
placed in their path inside the tube. In the ordinary X-ray tube a
little plate of platinum is commonly placed in the middle of the tube,
just opposite the cathode, for the purpose of receiving the stream of
cathode rays. It thus becomes the source from which the X-rays pro-
ceed. This is about all that we know with certainty concerning X-rays.
Most physicists, however, now believe them to be ethereal rather than
material in their nature, that is, they believe them to be some sort of
waves or pulses in the ether, not very dissimilar from light waves.
Radio-active Substances emit Cathode Rays.
We are now in a position to understand the experiments which were
performed with radio-active substances, namely, uranium, thorium
and radium, in order to discover the nature of their radiation. It was
at first suspected that these rays were similar to X-rays, because, like
them, they possessed the power of penetrating opaque objects and of
affecting photographic plates. But as soon as the test which distin-
guished X-rays from cathode rays was applied, that is, as soon as a
magnet was placed so that it could distort the photograph produced
with the aid of Becquerel rays, in case these rays like cathode rays were
deflected by it, it was found indeed that these photographs did indicate
such deflection. It was further found that they could be bent out of
