BECENT DISCOVERIES IN B AVIATION. 489
their course by electric charges just like the cathode rays, and, lastly,
that, also like them, they imparted negative charges of electricity to
objects upon which they fell. Further, when the mass of these particles
was calculated by comparing the amount of deflection produced by a
magnet with that produced by an electric charge, it proved to be,
strangely enough, the same as that of the cathode ray particles. It
seems certain, therefore, that radio-active substances spontaneously
emit rays which are identical in all respects with the cathode rays, i. e.,
which consist of minute negatively charged particles of about one
one-thousandth the size of the hydrogen atom. The velocity with
which these minute particles are shot off from the radio-active sub-
stances is found to be even more enormous than the velocity of the
same particles in the cathode rays. The latter were found to move
with a velocity which is sometimes as high as 20,000 miles per second.
Now, the velocity with which light travels from the sun to the earth or
from star to star is 186,000 miles per second. Hence, the cathode ray
particles sometimes move with a tenth the velocity of light. But the
velocity of the particles shot off from radio-active substances is still
more surprising, for it sometimes reaches the stupendous figure of
175,000 miles per second, only a trifle less than that of light.
Other Badiations from Badio-active Substances.
But it was discovered in 1899 by Rutherford, of McGrill IJniversity,
Canada, that uranium, thorium and radium all emit other rays besides
cathode rays, which are distinguishable from them, first by their very
much smaller penetrating power and, second, by the fact that they are
not ordinarily deviated either by a magnet or by an electrically charged
body. He named these rays the alpha rays, while he designated the
cathode rays emitted by radio-active substances as the beta rays. In
order to separate the alpha from the beta rays, it was only necessary to
lay over the radio-active substance, that is, the uranium, the thorium
or the radium, a very thin sheet of aluminum; for example, a sheet
.005 centimeter thick. This opposed almost no obstruction to the
passage of the beta rays, but it cut off entirely the alpha rays.
Another mark of difference between the two kinds of rays was that,
while the beta rays were very much more effective than the alpha
rays in penetrating opaque objects and in affecting a photographic
plate, their infiuence in rendering a gas electrically conducting was
very small in comparison with that of the alpha rays; so that if the
thin sheet of aluminum were taken away, the gas above the radio-active
substance became a hundred times as good a conductor as when the
alpha rays were screened off.
There is also a third kind of ray given off by radio-active sub-
stances, which has been given the name of gamma rays. These are
very much more penetrating even than the beta rays; but, so far, little
