49° POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
is known about their nature. Since, however, the energy carried by
them is very insignificant as compared with that in the alpha and beta
rays, we can leave them entirely out of account in most of the compu-
tations which we make upon the energy of radiations of radio-active
substances. It is now conjectured that the gamma rays are ethereal
pulses like the X-rays.
The Nature of the Alpha Rays.
It was at first conjectured that possibly the alpha rays might be
X-rays, since, like them, they are not deflected by a magnet, and since,
also like them, they are very effective in rendering a gas electrically
conducting. But only last year Professor Kutherford contrived a very
ingenious experiment by which he showed conclusively that the alpha
rays are deflected very slightly by a magnet if the magnet is suflBciently
powerful. He also succeeded in showing that they are deflected by a
very strong electrical field. But in both of these cases the direction
of the deflection is opposite to that obtained under the same conditions
with beta rays. These results of Professor Eutherfords are of the
utmost importance, and they have been recently confirmed both by
Becquerel in Paris, and by a German physicist by the name of Des
Coudres. The only possible interpretation which can be put upon
them is that the alpha rays also consist of particles of matter shot off
from the radio-active substances, but that, while the beta ray particles
carry charges of negative electricity, the alpha ray particles carry
charges of positive electricity.
Further, when from the amounts of the deflections produced by the
magnet and by the electric charge, the size and velocity of the alpha
particles are calculated, the results are again most interesting. For
these particles are found to have a mass not one one-thousandth that of
the hydrogen atom, like the cathode rays, but approximately twice as
great as that of the hydrogen atom, or about the size of the atom of
helium. (The atomic weight of helium is 4.) They are there-
fore about 2,000 times as heavy as the cathode ray particles. This ex-
plains why they do not pass through ordinary matter as readily as do the
smaller beta particles. But despite this comparatively great mass, their
velocity is found to be as much as 20,000 miles per second, more than
a tenth that of the smaller particles. It will be seen, therefore, that
the energy of the blows which they strike against the bodies upon
which they fall is much greater than that of the beta particles. This
explains why they knock the gas to pieces, or dissociate it and thus
render it conducting, so much more energetically than do the beta
particles.
The CrooTces Spinthariscope.
We have attempted to follow, thus far, the evidence upon which we
base the conclusion that the radiations from radioactive substances con-
