RECENT DISCOVERIES IN RADIATION. 491
sist, largely at least, of projected particles of matter expelled with
enormous velocities from the active substance. But no amount of
reasoning of the sort thus far given will be found half as convincing
to the ordinary mind as the sight of a bit of radium at work. Eadium
itself, in the dark, glows with a light which resembles that of a glow-
worm, and when placed near certain substances like willemite (zinc
silicate) or zinc sulphide, it causes them to light up with a glow which
is more or less brilliant according to the amount of the radium at hand.
Last spring Sir William Crookes first exhibited the following most
beautiful and wonderful experiment at the soiree of the Eoyal Society
in London. A small bit of radium is placed about a millimeter above
a zinc sulphide screen, and the latter is then viewed through a micro-
scope of from ten to twenty diameters magnification. The continuous
soft glow of the screen, which is all that one sees with the naked eye,
is resolved by the microscope into a thousand tiny flashes of light. It
is as though one were viewing a swamp full of fire flies, or, better still,
a sky full of shooting stars. The appearance is as though the screen
were being fiercely bombarded by an incessant rain of projectiles, each
impact being marked by a fiash of light, just as sparks fly off from an
iron when it is struck with a hammer. Becquerel has recently brought
forward evidence to show that the spark is due to a cleavage produced
in the zinc sulphide crystal by the impact of the alpha particles. This
explains why the effect is not observable with all kinds of screens.
The Continuous Emission of Light and Heat hy Radio-active
Substances.
After learning that the radio-active substances uranium, thorium
and radium are, for some reason or other, continuously projecting
with enormous velocities two kinds of particles, the alpha and the heta
particles, one is not surprised to find that these substances maintain a
temperature above the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere.
This has been proved experimentally only for radium, which was found
last year by M. Curie and M. Laborde to remain permanently at a tem-
perature between one and two degrees centigrade above that of its
surroundings, and to give out for each gram of weight enough heat per
hour to raise a hundred grams of water through one degree. Since
radium radiates more than a million times more actively than either of
the other substances, it is not likely that any one will ever be able to
show experimentally that uranium and thorium also maintain a tem-
perature above that of their surroundings. Nevertheless, the same
causes which operate to hold up the temperature of radium, operate
also to hold up the temperature of both the other radio-active sub-
stances, the only difference being one of degree. Hence it is probable
that all radio-active substances are continuously emitting, in a greater
or less degree, heat energy. This is not surprising in view of the
