492 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
conclusion that such substances are continually projecting particles
with enormous velocities, for if these particles are projected from all
the molecules of the active substance, it would be expected that the
temperature of the mass of the substance would rise under this un-
ceasing internal bombardment. But whence comes this energy which
is represented in the projected particles, and of which this heat and
light are the ultimate manifestation?
Radio-activity a Manifestation of Subatomic Energy.
The answer to this last question has not yet been fully given. This
much, however, can be said, that, thanks to the splendid work of Ruther-
ford and Soddy, of McGill University, of Sir William Crookes, of the
Curies and Becquerel in Paris, and of one or two German physicists, a
fairly satisfactory answer is at least in sight. Whatever be the cause of
this ceaseless emission of particles by radio-active substances, it is cer-
tain that it is not due to any ordinary chemical reactions, such as those
with which we have heretofore been familiar ; for Madame Curie showed,
when she originally discovered the activity of thorium, that the activity
of all the active substances is proportional simply to the amount of the
active element present and has nothing whatever to do with the nature
of the chemical compound in which that element is found. Thus,
thorium may be changed from a nitrate to a chloride, or from a chloride
to a sulphide, or it may undergo any sort of a chemical change, without
any change whatever being noticeable in its activity. Furthermore,
radio-activity has been found to be absolutely independent of all
changes in physical as well as chemical condition. A radio-active
substance may be subjected to the lowest temperatures known, or to the
highest temperature obtainable, without showing in either case any
alteration whatever in the amount of its activity. Eadio-activity seems
therefore to be as unalterable a property of the atom of the radio-active
substances as is weight itself. It is certainly something which is en-
tirely beyond the range of ordinary molecular forces. This is strong
evidence in favor of the view that radio-active change, i. e., the change,
whatever it be, which is responsible for the expulsion of the alpha and
teta particles, involves a change in the nature of the atom itself. This
is the first time in the history of science that any subatomic store of
energy has been tapped by man, although, as stated above, the possi-
bility of breaking up the atom was first proved by the study of cathode
rays.
The Production of Uranium X.
The view that radio-activity consists in some change going on in
the nature of the atom has received powerful support from a series of
discoveries which were started in 1900 by an experiment performed
by Sir William Crookes. He found that if uranium nitrate were pre-
cipitated by ammonium carbonate and then enough of the ammonium
