RECENT DISCOVERIES IN RADIATION. 493
carbonate added to redissolve the uranium nitrate, there remained
behind an undissolved precipitate which contained a large part of the
original activity vs^hich had been possessed by the uranium nitrate. He
called this undissolved precipitate (or better, the portion of it which
was responsible for the activity, for when chemically tested, it showed
nothing but iron, aluminum and other impurities) uranium X. But
he soon afterward discovered that the uranium nitrate, wliich had par-
tially lost its activity through the separation from it of this unknown
substance, uranium X, in the course of a few months had regained
completely its original activity, while the uranium X had lost its power
to radiate.
A little more than a year ago Rutherford tried the same experiment
with thorium and found quite similar results. But more important still,
he found that in both cases the rate of loss of activity of the separated
substance, that is, of the uranium X or the thorium X, was equal to the
rate of recovery of the uranium or the thorium from which the new
substance had been extracted. To state this result in a slightly diifer-
ent way, he found that if all the uranium X were removed from a
sample of uranium by this process, so that further precipitation by
ammonium carbonate would bring down no more uranium X, and if
the uranium were then allowed to stand till it had recovered one half
of the lost activity, and if then the uranium X was again removed, the
amount of this uranium X which could be obtained was now Just one
half as much as the amount obtained at first. If the uranium had
regained three fourths of its original activity, just three fourths as
much uranium X could be obtained from it as at first. This result
seems capable of but one possible interpretation, namely, this: the
uranium is continually producing, by some change which goes on within
itself, some radio-active substance uranium X, which, however, is
formed in such minute quantities that it can be detected and measured
only by means of its radio-activity. Further, this uranium X itself is
unstable, for it undergoes a change by which it loses its activity.
Rutherford further found that in this separation of uranium X from
uranium the part of the activity which was left behind in the uranium
consisted entirely of the alplia type of radiation, while the part which
was separated out in the uranium X consisted wholly of the heta type.
This seems to show that the first step in the process of radio-active
change consists in the expulsion from the uranium atom of the big
dlplia particles, while the heta particles are expelled only from some
product which is formed by the disintegration of the uranium atom.
In all these particulars Rutherford found that thorium and uranium
acted essentially alike, the chief difference being that while the uranium
X loses one half of its activity in about twenty-two days, it requires
but four days for the activity of the thorium X to decay to half its
initial value.
