494 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Emanation from Radium.
The examination of radium revealed a behavior exactly similar to
that of uranium, for it too was found to be continually producing a
radio-active substance which, when separated from the radium, slowly
lost its activity, while the radium from which it was separated slowly
regained its original radiating power. In the case of radium this
new substance, unlike the uranium X and the thorium X, could be
distinguished by other physical properties besides its activity. Thus
Eutherf ord found it to be of the nature of a gas. It could be separated
from radium by heating the latter, or by dissolving it in water. The
radium which had been so treated lost for the time being all but one
fourth of its original radiating power, the other three fourths being
found in the gas, or emanation, as Eutherford called it. This gas
could be carried by means of air currents through long tubes to con-
siderable distances from the radium itself, its path through the tubes
being easily traced by the fluorescence which it imparted to the glass
walls of the tubes. It could be set away in bottles and the change in
its activity watched from day to day. In this way it was found to lose
about half its activity in a period of four days, while in the same
period the radium from which it had been separated regained one half
of its lost radiating power. By passing this gas or emanation through
a tube immersed in liquid air, Eutherford found that it condensed at
about — 150° C. Eamsay has recently found that it appears to have
a characteristic spectrum, as have all the elements. This gas, there-
fore, seems to be a substance of very definite physical qualities which is
produced by the disintegration of the atom of radium in just the same
way as the uranium X and thorium X are produced by the disintegra-
tion of the atoms of uranium and thorium. But this gas, like the
uranium X and the thorium X, has but a transitory existence, for the
fact that it gradually loses its activity shows that it passes on into
something else.
Induced Radio-activity.
Nor did physicists have long to look in order to discover this sub-
stance into which the emanation from radium is transformed. The
Curies found as early as 1899 that when this gas comes into contact
with a solid object, the object becomes coated with a film of radio-
active matter which can be dissolved with hydrochloric or sulphuric
acid, and which is left in the dish when the acid is evaporated. Or
which may be rubbed off with leather and found, by means of the
property of activity which it possesses, in the ash of the leather after
the leather has been burned. This radio-active matter is so infini-
tesimal in amount that in no case is it detected in any other way than
by its radio-activity. It might, at first, look as though it were nothing
but the active gas itself condensed on the surface of the solid object,
but since the rate at which it loses its activity is altogether different
