RECENT DISCOVERIES IN RADIATION. 495
from the rate at which the activity of the emanation decays ; and, more
important still, since it is found to emit both alpha and ieta rays while
the emanation emits only alpha rays, it seems necessary to conclude
that this film of active matter is a product of the emanation rather
than the emanation itself. In fact it appears to bear in all respects
the same relation to the emanation which the emanation does to radium.
That is, it is the result of the disintegration of the atom of the emana-
tion, just as the emanation is the result of the disintegration of the
atom of radium.
In the case of thorium this continuous change from one radio-
active substance into another has been followed with certainty through
as many as four different stages, thus ; first, thorium produces thorium
X; second, thorium X produces an active gas or emanation which is
very like the radium emanation; third, the thorium emanation gives
rise to a radio-active substance which is responsible for the induced
radio-activity which is observable whenever the emanation comes in
contact with a solid object; fourth, this induced radio-active matter
due to the thorium emanation gradually loses its radiating power, and
hence must undergo at least one further change into some other sub-
stance.
The Disintegration of the Atom of Radio-active Substances.
We have endeavored to follow step by step the discoveries which
have led up to our present knowledge of the nature of radio-activity.
These discoveries have seemed to prove conclusively that the atoms
of radio-active substances are slowly undergoing a process of disin-
tegration, this disintegration being indicated, first by the fact that
there is a continuous projection from them of particles of matter, the
alpha and beta rays; and second, by the fact that we are able to detect
the presence of new and unstable types of matter accompanying the
phenomena of radio-activity. Just why these atoms are disintegrating
and just how these new types of matter are formed must of course be
largely a matter of speculation. Nevertheless, discovery has gone far
enough to enable us to form a reasonably plausible hypothesis as to the
probable mechanism of radio-active change. In presenting this
hypothesis the first remarkable fact to be noted is that the three per-
manently radio-active substances thus far discovered, the only ones
which can with certainty be classed as elements, namely uranium, tho-
rium and radium,* are the substances whose atoms are the three heaviest
* There are two other substances which must perhaps be added to this list,
viz., polonium and actinium. But neither of these has as yet been found to show
a distinct spectrum or to show any of the other characteristics of elements;
furthermore, the activity of one of them and possibly of both of them slowly
decays. Hence it is possible that they, like uranium X and thorium X and the
radium emanation, are only stages in the disintegration of radio-active elements.
The present indications, however, seem to be that actinium is, like radium, a
new and very powerful radio-active element.
