496 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
atoms known. Thus the atomic weight of uranium is 240, that of
thorium 233, that of radium 225 or, according to a recent spectroscopic
test, by Eunge, 256. There is no other property in which these three
substances are at all alike. In their chemical characteristics they are ex-
tremely different. Now, according to our modern mechanical theory of
heat, the atoms of all substances are in extremely rapid rotation. It ap-
pears, therefore, that these rapidly rotating systems of heavy atoms, such
as characterize radio-active substances, not infrequently become unstable
and project off a part of their mass. These particles which are first
projected were found to be the alpha particles, and this process of
projecting the alpha particles is the first stage of radio-activity. The
mass which is left behind, namely, the uranium X, the thorium X,
or the emanation, according as the original atom was uranium, thorium
or radium, is itself unstable, and projects still other particles. The
remainder, at least in the case of thorium and radium, is still unstable,
and another particle is projected. Thus we were able to follow the
disintegration of the atoms through at least four (according to Euther-
ford, five) successive stages. How many more stages there may be
no one can tell, but as soon as the stable condition is reached and no
more particles are projected the product is of course no longer radio-
active, and its presence can no longer be detected by the delicate test of
radio-activity. It is then only after it has accumulated in sufficient
quantity to be capable of detection by the ordinary methods, namely,
by spectroscopic or chemical analysis, that it could be expected to be
found.
The Birth of Helium.
More than two years ago Eutherford, with this picture of the
mechanism of radio-activity in mind, made a prediction which has
recently been most remarkably verified. The history of science
scarcely affords a more striking instance of the fulfilment of scientific
prophecy. Since helium (the element which was first discovered in
the sun, by means of a line in the solar spectrum which did not agree
with the lines of any of our known elements, and which was dis-
covered on the earth only a few years ago by Lord Eayleigh and Pro-
fessor Eamsay) is found in nature only in connection with radio-active
minerals, i. e., in connection with those minerals which contain
uranium, thorium or radium, Eutherford predicted that helium would
one day be found to be one of the ultimate products of the disintegra-
tion of the radio-active elements. A year later, it may be remembered,
Eutherford himself found that the alpha particle, which is certainly
one of the products of radio-active change, had about the same mass as
the helium atom. This pointed still more strongly to the confirmation
of his original prophesy. Last July Professor Eamsay and Mr. Soddy
actually saw the spectrum of helium grow out of the emanation of
radium. They collected the emanation from fifty milligrams of radium
