RECENT DISCOVERIES IN RADIATION. 497
bromide and, examining it in the spectroscope, found that it was charac-
terized by a wholly new spectrum, probably the characteristic spectrum
of the emanation. But after watching this spectrum for three days they
saw the characteristic lines of helium beginning to appear. This
seemed to prove with certainty that helium was being continually
formed by the disintegration of radium.
The Life of Radium.
It appears, therefore, that all the three heaviest atoms known are
slowly disintegrating into simpler atoms. The process is, however,
extremely slow. Despite the incessant projection of particles from
radium, so strikingly shown by the Crookes spinthariscope, no one has
as yet been able to detect with certainty any loss whatever in its weight,
nor any diminution in its activity. Yet we may be certain that in
fact it is both losing weight and diminishing in activity ; for otherwise
the principle of the conservation of energy, the corner-stone of modem
science, would be violated. From a knowledge of the amount of heat
energy given off by radium per hour, viz., 100 calories, and a knowledge
of energy represented by each projected particle (this knowledge we
possess, since we know the mass and velocity of the alpha particles, the
energy contained in the leta particles being wholly negligible in com-
parison), we can easily estimate certain limits within which we may
expect all the radium now in existence to pass out of existence as
radium. In the first place we obtain the number of alpha particles
projected per second from one gram weight of radium atoms by divi-
ding the 100 gram-calories by the kinetic energy of each alpha particle.
The result of this calculation is 200,000,000,000 (= 2 X 10). Now
there are 3 X 10^^ atoms of radium in a gram of radium chloride.
Hence if each atom of radium which becomes unstable threw off but
one alpha particle, then the fractional part of any given number of
radium atoms which become unstable per second would be simply
2 X 10 divided by 3 X 10^^ This amounts to but one in fifteen
thousand million. On the other hand, if each atom of radium which
becomes unstable produces the maximum possible number of alpha
particles, viz., 225/2, 235 being the atomic weight of radium and two
the atomic weight of the alpha particles, then only one atom in sixteen
hundred thousand million would become unstable per second. These
two numbers represent then respectively the maximum and minimum
possible rates at which the atoms of radium are becoming unstable.
At the first rate radium would lose about one one-hundredth of its
activity in five years, ninety-nine one-hundredths in 2,200 years and in
9,000 years it would possess no more than one hundred-millionth part
of its present activity, i. e., it would no longer be measurably active.
Since we have brought forward good evidence in the foregoing para-
voi;. Lxiv. — 32.
