498 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
graphs that each atom of radium which becomes iinstable throws off at
least as many as four alpha particles before it again reaches a condition
of stability, it is probable that the above lowest possible limit to the
life of radium, viz., 9,000 years, should be replaced by 36,000. At
the second or minimum rate radium would lose one-hundredth of its
activity in about 500 years and in 900,000 years would be no longer
measurably active. It appears then that within a period of a million
years at most all the radium now in existence will have ceased to be
radio-active, i. e., will have ceased to be radium. The life of uranium
and thorium would be from one to two million times as much, since
they are radiating only about a millionth as actively.
The Transmutation of the Elements.
The discoveries which we have attempted to describe in the pre-
ceding pages have seemed to lead to the startling conclusion that in
the case of certain elements at least, the dreams of the ancient
alchemists are true, for the radio-active elements all appear to be
slowly but spontaneously transmuting themselves into other elements.
The present indications seem to be that this transmutation which is
going on in nature is a change from the heavier atoms to the lighter
ones. Whether any other heavy atoms besides those of uranium, thorium
and radium are thus slowly disintegrating, we can not say, but probably
actinium must be added to the list. If any of the other known heavy
elements, like gold, lead, barium, bismuth, mercury, are undergoing
such a change, it is too slow to be detected even by the delicate test of
radio-activity. But it is interesting to note that the only changes of
this kind which have thus far been discovered to be going on among
the atoms are in some respects similar to the changes which are going
on in the organic world among the molecules. By the ordinary process
of decay, all organic compounds, which represent very complex molec-
ular structures, are continually disintegrating into simpler ones, and
in so doing are setting free the energy which was put into them when
the processes of life built them up into complex forms. Similarly,
the studies of the last eight years upon radiation seem to indicate that
in the atomic world also, at least some of the heaviest and most complex
atomic structures are tending to disintegrate into simpler atoms. The
analogy suggests the profoundly interesting question, as to whether or
not there is any natural process which does, among the atoms, what the
life process does among the molecules, i. e., which takes the simpler
forms and builds them up again into more complex ones. It would
be rash to attempt to give any positive answer to such a query, yet the
fact that radium now exists on the earth, taken in connection with the
fact that the life of radium is short in comparison with the ages in
which the earth has been in existence, certainly seems to point to an
affirmative answer. The only other alternative is to assume that
