500 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN FOEM.
By CHARLES MORRIS,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
rriHAT men, or thinking beings akin to man, exist only on that
-*- minute fragment of the universe we call the earth is a conception
so highly improbable, in view of the vast multitude of planets which
we may logically conceive to exist, that it seems as if no reasoning
being could entertain it. It is true, indeed, that in our own solar
system perhaps only two or three of the planets, perhaps only the
earth, are in a condition suitable for human habitation, and that the
earth has been so for a comparatively brief period. It may well be,
therefore, that only a very small percentage of the planets of space
are in a similar condition. But in view of the vast multitude of
planets that presumably exist, the number of those that possess rea-
soning beings is probably great. If we deal with this question from the
point of view of actual evidence, the fact that the only planet whose
conditions we know is inhabited by man is a strong argument in favor
of his wide-spread existence. On the other hand, the fact that mans
existence upon the earth is dependent upon a certain limited range
of temperature, of brief duration in the earths total history, is an
argument on the opposite side, and goes far to narrow the possible
domain of life in the universe. Yet if we extend our view to embrace
the past and the future as well as the present, we can not avoid the
conclusion that the realm of life and thought in the universe is an
immense one.
To this question of the existence of thinking beings appertains
another, that of their form or physical character. Are we to suppose
that these beings, wherever placed, resemble man, or that each planet
develops a type of its own, and that, if we could bring together a collec-
tion of the men of different sections of the universe, we should have a
diversified museum of animal forms, vdth but one characteristic in
common, that of the faculty of abstract thought? This is the con-
ception usually entertained by those who have indulged in speculation
or fiction concerning the inhabitants of Venus, Mars and other planets
of our system. Yet it is one that may be questioned. A study of the
development of life upon the earth seems to lead to the opposite con-
clusion, and yields warrant for the theory that thinking beings, wher-
ever they may dwell, resemble man in body as well as in mind In
other words, we have reason to conclude that, if we were capable of
