EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN FORM. 501
traversing the universe, we should find beings akin to ourselves in many
a remote corner of space.
On the earth, indeed, life exists under conditions which may be
widely departed from in many other planets. Here the extreme range
of favoring temperature is that between the freezing and the boiling
points of water, the practical range being much smaller. Special con-
ditions of surface material and formation, atmosphere, chemical action,
etc., are also necessary. It is far from certain that the same conditions
are necessary everywhere. Life may perhaps flourish on other planets
under quite different conditions of temperature, gravitation and chem-
ical action. It is true that, if all the spheres of space are made up of
essentially the same chemical elements, as spectrum analysis seems to
show, the range of life conditions can not greatly vary. Yet if the
more abundant and active elements in any sphere differ from those of
the earth, the consequent life conditions might vary accordingly and
life exist under relations of temperature and chemical action unknown
to us. The one thing essential, in every case, is an environment favor-
ing organic chemism.
All this, however, is a side issue. It has no necessary bearing upon
the question of animal form. If human beings could exist on some
planets at 1000° instead of 100° F., and be made up of a protoplasm
of quite different chemical composition, their forms and modes of
action might still be closely the same. For the external forms of ani-
mals are due to physical, not to chemical, conditions. They are mainly
results of the struggle for existence, and the effort to gain the most
effective formation for the incessant battle of life. This must go on
wherever life appears and develops, wherever the temperature or the
active chemical elements may be. Much the same may be said of
internal development. It seems to us that in any advanced stage of life
the energy of animal motion must be a consequence of chemical change,
due to something equivalent to oxidation of the tissues. There must
also be an efficient agency for the supply of fresh nutriment to the
wasting tissues, nerves for sensation and muscles for action, excretive
and reproductive organs, etc., in short, organic conditions analogous
to those which exist in our own bodies.
In truth, the minuteness of the earth as a planet, and the seeming
insignificance of its life story as compared with that of all spheres and
all periods, are apt to give us a false impression of the real signifi-
cance of the development of life upon our place of abode. Though
the process of organic evolution here may seem to us a minor one, a
review of its history will serve to show that it has been a major one.
And its final outcome in man can hardly be looked upon as a fortuitous
result, but seems rather the inevitable consequence of an innumerable
series of experimental variations. The life period upon the earth has
