502 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
been a very extended one, stretching through many millions of years,
and living matter has passed through an extraordinary diversity of
forms, from microscopic specks of primeval jelly to the highly organ-
ized form of man. Of any planet upon which thinking beings have
appeared, doubtless much the same may be said. The beginning must
have been at the same low level; the gradations must have been sim-
ilar in general character; the ultimate may perhaps have been widely
different, though there are what seem good reasons for believing that
it was closely accordant.
The final result of organic evolution depends largely upon external
relations, the environment; largely upon the relations of organic mat-
ter to the chemical conditions of this environment. In certain partic-
ulars this has remained persistent throughout. The presence of water
and air and the active oxidation of organic substance have been essen-
tial conditions of plant and animal existence through all the earths
life era. In other particulars the environment has varied immensely.
At first physical only, it soon became in large measure vital. Organic
beings, at first struggling for existence against adverse inorganic con-
ditions, soon had to add to this a struggle against one another. As
life grew more complex and diversified, so did the vital environment.
The hurtful or helpful effects of heat and cold, storm and calm, poi-
sonous and nutritious food, and other inorganic agencies, became of
minor importance as agents in evolution in comparison with the in-
tense competition for the food supply between living forms. The devel-
opment of the carnivorous appetite in animals, with the subsequent
necessity of methods of escape or defense in food forms, has been the
most prominent selective agency in organic evolution, and the one to
which we mainly owe the great diversity of advanced forms now exist-
ing. The struggle has been not alone between higher assailants and
lower fugitives. It has also taken the form of the assault of lower
upon higher forms. And it is of great interest to find that man, the
highest of all, finds his most dangerous organic foes in the disease-
producing microbes, among the lowest forms of life.
Life, then, in its progress upward, has moved in a somewhat narrow
lane, whose borders it could not cross without encountering death. And
in dealing with earthly evolution, we are in great measure dealing
with evolution everywhere; since, whatever the organic conditions and
the inorganic environment, the vital struggle for existence must have
been much the same in all life-containing spheres. Nature may be
held to have tried a great experiment upon the earth, carried on
through a vast stretch of time, as if with intent to discover what ulti-
mate result would arise from this long-continued action of inorganic
and organic forces upon living forms.
This experiment has not lacked a sufiiciency of material. During
