504 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
must have been reached, as a stage superior to the minute single-celled
animal, or the immobile plant, fed with inorganic nutriment.
If we may then accept it as inevitable that organic evolution every-
where, if sufficiently advanced, must have reached the stage of the
metazoon animal, this may be taken as the necessary basis of higher
progress in any life-bearing planet. In the metazoon we have a crea-
ture consuming organic food, which it is necessary to seek, and thus
needing powers of self-motion, either of the body as a whole or of its
members. And in any planet in which beings equivalent to man ap-
peared the faculty of consciousness must have been equally necessary
at an early stage, as a highly advantageous aid in the struggle for
existence.
This type of life once attained, it formed a fertile field for the
operation of the principle of natural selection. Upon the earth, and
presumably everywhere, it developed into innumerable forms, each
adapted to some passing or permanent condition of the environment.
Assuming that the agencies of internal organic activity were every-
where much the same — including active chemical change, due to oxi-
dation or something similar, vascular organs for the conveyance of
nutriment to the wasting tissues, apparatus for sensation and motion,
and the like — and that these led to the development of specialized
organs equivalent to the lungs, the heart, the brain, etc., we shall con-
fine ourselves here to the subject of variation in outward form and
condition.
Even in this there are a multitude of relations to consider, and we
can deal here only with those of general character. A main one is that
of activity as contrasted with inactivity. Many of the new forms
became sessile animals, their only active parts being tentacles or other
organs of offense and defense. Others became free-moving animals.
Of the two types the latter was evidently the best adapted to high
development, both physical and mental, its free motion greatly diver-
sifying its environment and bringing it into much more varied rela-
tions than could be enjoyed by the plant-like sessile forms. The more
active the animal, the more diversified its powers of motion, the more
acute and varied its organs of sense, the more alert its powers of con-
sciousness, the higher seemingly would be its position in the ranks of
life and the superior its opportunities for upward progress. And this
rule must have jorevailed not only on the earth, but throughout the
universe.
This being the case, not alone the sessile, but the sluggish, forms
were at a disadvantage as compared with the active. Anything, then,
likely to prevent rapidity and diversity of motion must have acted as
a check to progress. Activity is essential to the most effective offen-
sive powers, and upon these the higher stages of development depend;
