EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN FORM. 505
but various types of animals became defensive rather than offensive in
habit. These include the armored classes, of vs^hich the mollusks are
the most marked example. To these may be added the forms that
seek concealment, either by burrowing or otherwise. These creatures
are necessarily sluggish, either from the weight of their armor or their
lurking habits. They live upon inactive food, their environment is
limited, their contact with nature narrow, their powers of sensation
and consciousness little developed. The conditions of their life defi-
nitely take them out of the line of the higher progress, in which they
can not compete with the more active forms.
In considering then the classes of animals adapted to advanced
development, it seems necessary to confine ourselves to the free-mov-
ing, agile forms. And among the inhabitants of the ocean — in which
life had its origin and its lower stages of development — these are not
to be sought among the crawling and burrowing, but among the swim-
ming species. With these the highest activity is dependent upon the
most suitable formation of body and the most capable organs of motion.
If we may pursue our fable of natures experiment in evolution,
it can be said that very numerous trials in form were made. There
seem possible to colloid substance only two general types of form, the
circular or radial and the elongated. Both these were produced in
numerous varieties, the circular type embracing two large classes of
animals, the coelenterata and the echinodermata, all of them sluggish,
many of them sessile, their general shape and radiated limbs being
very ill adapted to active motion. In this respect they were at a great
disadvantage as compared with the bilateral, elongated type.
We thus seem to find the experiment of organic evolution, after
millions of years of incessant effort, reaching the type which in its
simpler stages is popularly designated as the worm, as the form best
adapted for advanced evolution. The pristine worm was not in itself
a promising creature. Its organs of motion were inefficient and its
movements sluggish. Probably several worm-like types appeared,
simply organized elongated animals of varied formation, to which we
owe, in their final development, the three classes of animals known
as the moUusca, the arthropoda, and the vertebrata. This develop-
ment of an elongated, bilateral animal would seem to have been an
inevitable stage in the evolution of animal life, sure to appear in any
planet where life had sufficiently progressed, and capable of unfold-
ing into a number of different types. In addition to the great types
named, several of minor importance appeared upon the earth, and
different ones may well have arisen elsewhere.
Yet if we seek for the highest class of form likely to arise from the
worm-like unit, our field of search is restricted. If activity and flexibility
of body are advantageous, we must seek these in the swimming rather
