MAEINE ZOOLOGY IX THE TROPICAL ATLANTIC. 47
that no biologist familiar with either one of these situations has ever
studied at the other:
Concerning the scope and auspices of the laboratory all the
correspondents are agreed that it should be national in character, and
that every possible aid should be given to all competent students, both
in the prosecution of their studies and in the publication of results.
Although a tropical laboratory may well remain open during the
entire year, the most available months for study are May 1 to August
1. This is the period of calms, which follows the trade wind period
of the winter and precedes the hurricane season of the autumn. Dur-
ing late spring and early summer months one may safely go out to sea
in small sail boats, and may wade and collect on the windward sides
of the reefs, an advantage rarely enjoyed during the winter, when the
almost constant trade wind lashes the ocean into foam. There is yet
another advantage gained by selecting the summer months for study,
for this is the period when numerous larvas and young forms appear;
and few realize who have not been there that there is almost as much
difEerence between the fauna of summer and winter in the tropical
ocean as there is along our own temperate shores. With the exception
of the Siphonophoras, almost all forms of pelagic life are much more
numerous in spring and summer than during the winter months.
These remarks apply especially to the Tortugas and Bahamas, where
the calm period is well marked.
This appeal for this laboratory may seem to some to be worthy of
but little attention; for abstract laws and facts having little or no
bearing upon the practical things of life would chiefly concern its
thought, but who may dare to predict the outcome of the study of
pure science? Polarized light by means of which we now analyze our
sugars, the principles underlying the working of the dynamo, telegraph
and telephone; the great law of evolution and the germ theory of dis-
ease were all discovered and made known by men who had in mind
only the advancement of the sum of human knowledge totally apart
from practical results or the acquisition of wealth. Our national
progress vast in material has been insignificant in abstract science,
yet imderlying all practical applications are the laws which men who
have studied nature for the simple- love of her ways have found. Too
much of our energy is withdrawn from the study of cardinal princi-
ples, and too much devoted to the application of established laws to
the serving of mere practical ends. Let us have at least one labora-
tory devoted exclusively to research in science, both pure and applied,
and let its course be free from criticism if it be so fortunate as to
lead to the discovery of laws even if no money be made thereby.
