5o6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
than in the crawling forms; in the naked rather than in the armored;
in those of simple rather than in those of multiple organization — like
the arthropods; in those with lateral rather than in those with oral
limbs — ^like the mollusks; and finally in those with the smallest avail-
able number and most efficient character of limbs and other organs.
This leads us to the vertebrates for the highest type that appeared in
the waters of the earth, as the outcome of forms almost numberless
in variety. In this we have an oval-shaped elongated animal, its
organs of motion much the most effective of the many that had ap-
peared in the progress of life, its vital organs unified and simplified
to the greatest extent possible, its skeleton internal instead of external,
used solely as a support, in no sense as an armor.
If we consider the fish in its most primitive varieties, we certainly
seem led to the conclusion that it is the form to which the evolution
of life would lead in any planet, as the basis of the higher develop-
ment. In Ampliioxus, for instance, we find the elongated bilateral
animal simplified to an extraordinary degree; without external armor
of any sort, with the simplest vital organs, with only the beginning
of an internal skeleton, and with merely the suspicion of a fin, virtu-
ally a flattening of the skin. In this form we have the vertebrate
reduced to its lowest terms, or the worm advanced to its highest. In
the hag we find again a boneless and scaleless creature, with a sheath
of cartilage to represent the backbone and with no organs of motion
other than a fin-like flattening around the tail. Much the same may
be said of the lamprey. From forms like these the fish seems to have
developed, with all its subsequent variations.
The fish remains the highest form of water-developed life. It has
made comparatively slight steps of progress during the immense inter-
val since the paleozoic age. The limitations of its habitat seem to
have checked the development of organic form at this stage. It can
not be said that the evolution of life in the water has been in any sense
restricted by deficiency of time or narrowness of variation. The va-
riety of forms that have appeared is surprising when we consider the
uniformity of conditions in the water, and are only to be accounted
for as the result of a very active vital struggle. We find its simplest
and least specialized higher result in Amphioxus, of which the ultimate
result is the fish, beyond which, during millions of years, no progress has
been made. And a full consideration of what has taken place on the
earth strongly suggests that the oceanic evolution of life in any planet
must have ended at some not dissimilar stage. Mentally it stands at
a low level; and the whale, a mammal which has returned to the fish-
form, is as low as the fish in mental powers.
Life in water was the basis of life on the land. It could not orig-
inate there de novo, land conditions being unadapted to the early life
