EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN FORM. 5° 7
stages. Land life was therefore handicapped by its origin. It had to
start with what the ocean had to offer, and to begin with physical
conditions which afterward could, at the best, only be modified.
These conditions have left ineradicable traces even in man, the most
removed of all from the original types. Of water animals only the
elongated forms sent representatives to people the land — the worm,
mollusk, arthropod and vertebrate. And of these, the latter two alone
seemed well adapted to their new habitat, the arthropod developing
into an extraordinary multitude of species, though its inferiority of
organization removed it, at the start, from any competition with the
vertebrate as a basis for the higher evolution. We find in the bee
and the ant the ultimate development of the insect intellect, and the
insect form is decidedly restricted by its characteristic condition.
Despite the immense variation that has taken place in land ver-
tebrates, their marked departures from the fish t3rpe have not been nu-
merous. One of the most important of these was the development of
the fin into the limb, yielding the quadruped. Another was the replace-
ment of the gill by the lung. But varieties of partially air-breathing
and four-paddled fishes still exist, as if to serve us as object lessons
in these stages of development.
Land animals were exposed to much more varied natural conditions
than water animals and the struggle for existence between different
forms was quite as acute. Yet, though a vast number of differing
forms appeared, they were all built on the original lines of structure,
the type of organization of the fish strictly limiting that of the land
vertebrate. A development takes place, but it is on the lines already
laid down. The internal organs vary and become more effective in
action, the cold-blooded is succeeded by the warm-blooded, the egg-
bearing by the young-bearing, etc. There is much change in external
form. Animals became adapted to running, to flying, to swimming,
to crawling, to burrowing. There are many variations in the feet and
limbs, and in some cases these vanish, as in the serpent and the whale.
Some animals are clothed in scales or bony armor, some in hair or
feathers. But no new type appears, and though the mental powers
increase, ages pass with little indication of the coming of any animal
possessed of advanced powers of thought. Mentally the higher land
vertebrate progresses far beyond its highest water kindred, but its pow-
ers of thought, after gaining a certain development, remain in great
measure dormant, and there is nothing to indicate that the quadruped
could ever progress in thought beyond a certain low level. If so on
the earth, probably so everywhere : the influences acting on the quad-
ruped do not seem calculated to produce any advanced thinking powers.
We have, in the foregoing pages, followed in its general features
the evolution of animal life upon the earth. In view of the immense
