5o8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
period over which this evolution has extended, the extraordinary va-
riety of forms which have appeared, and the strict limitations of the
problem by natural influences, chemical, meteorological and vital, it is
not easy to perceive how the final result could have deviated widely
from that which we have before us. If the process were gone over again
upon the earth, the great probability is that it would end once more
in the mammalian quadruped. On other planets different chemical
and physical conditions might affect the result, though the general
principles of vital action could not greatly deviate and the evolution
of the organs would doubtless pursue much the same course. As re-
gards external form, the struggle for existence must operate in the
same way and probably to the same effect.
Let us, for example, take the head of the quadruped, with its facil-
ity of motion, its apparatus for mastication, its sense organs, its nerve
center. Can any one suggest an improvement upon the general ar-
rangement of these organs, the ultimate outcome from a myriad of
experimental efforts? The nasal openings stand above the mouth, in
the best position to give warning of dangerous odors from food. The
eyes are placed at the highest altitude and in the frontal position, the
best location for their special duty. The ears are situated to catch
sounds from the rear and the front, but preferably the latter. The
brain is situated in the immediate vicinity of these organs of special
sense, as if to favor quickness of sensation. All the organs of the
head, indeed, seem remarkably well placed and adapted to their par-
ticular duty, and when we consider the varied positions which these
organs have occupied in lower forms of life, we may justly look upon
those in the quadruped as the final posts of vantage resulting from a
multitude of trials. Similar deductions might be made from other
sections of the body, internal and external.
But we have not yet reached the evolution of a thinking being, an
animal dependent much more upon its mental than upon its physical
powers. In each advanced type of animal some mental progress was
made; largest of all in the quadruped mammal; yet even in the latter
it ended at a low stage. This is evident if we compare the quadruped
with man, the former dependent very largely upon its physical, the
latter mainly upon his mental powers. Evidently, in any planet, some
step of progress beyond the quadruped was necessary for this result.
On the earth this step was towards the form of man, the only true
biped. May it not have been different in other planets, yielding human
beings widely diverse in form and general bodily relations?
The answer to this query depends upon that special characteristic
to which man — wherever found — owes his superiority. His physical
difference from the lower animals is by no means great. It consists
principally in an adoption of the upright attitude, a reduction of the
