EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN FORM. 509
organs of locomotion from four to two and the development of a hand
with grasping powers. But in this physical deviation lies the secret
of the whole mental deviation. The species of animals below man
are obliged to depend upon their personal organs^, being incapable of
availing themselves of natural objects. The elephant, with its grasping
trunk, and the apes, with their partly freed hands, are nearly the sole
exceptions to this rule. Man, on the contrary, by the freeing of his
fore limbs from duty in locomotion and the grasping power of his
hands, became able to add to his own powers those of nature, to employ
weapons and tools fashioned from non-living matter, and thus to
initiate a new cycle of evolution that was scarcely touched upon in the
world below him.
The employment of tools and weapons separate from those pro-
vided by nature in the body is a condition demanding the active exer-
cise of the mental powers, and at once gave man an incitement to the
development of the mind which did not exist in the lower animals.
We need not pursue this subject farther. The new process of evolu-
tion thus begun, — that of the exercise of the faculty of thought in
making use of the powers of nature — it went on until it yielded man
as he now exists, a being in whom the intellect controls not only his
own bodily actions but largely all nature below him.
If now, we may justly conjecture that animals resembling our
quadrupeds in general organization appeared on other planets, and if a
thinking being analogous to man also appeared on any of these planets,
it is very difficult to conceive how he could have arisen in any widely
different way. It certainly seems as if the evolution of the higher
intelligence in any planet must have depended upon some means of
making use of the forces of nature, and the first step towards this,
starting from the quadruped, would seem necessarily to be in the direc-
tion of the biped, with free arms and grasping hands.
There is thus considerable reason to believe that the beings which
answer to man upon any of the planets of the universe must at least
approach man somewhat closely in physical configuration. They may
differ in minor details of organization, in many cases they may have
escaped the special organic weaknesses of man, but it certainly seems as
if a human traveler, if he could make a tour of the universe, would
find beings whom he could hail as kindred upon a thousand spheres.
