5IO POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE AEEQUIPA STATION OF THE HAEVAED
OBSEEVATOEY.
By Professor SOLON I. BAILEY,
DIRECTOR OF THE AREQTJIPA STATION.
THE same restless energy which impelled the American people to
become a world-power has led their men of science to extend the
range of their researches. The possibilities of a nations influence
are bounded only by the whole earth ; and in a similar way the field of
astronomy is limited only by the whole sky. At the latitude of Cam-
bridge, Mass., an observer can never see more than three fourths of the
sky. In order to observe the remaining fourth, which lies about the
south pole of the heavens, he must seek some station below the equator.
A complete study of all the stars in the sky is imperatively demanded
for the solution of many of the great questions which the astronomy
of the future must answer. Only by bringing such completeness into
astronomical research will the construction of the universe and the
true place of our solar system become known.
The Arequipa Station of the Harvard College Observatory owes
its foundation to the far-sighted policy of its present director. Pro-
fessor Edward C. Pickering. Under his direction, in 1889, the writer
of this article visited South America in order to make the preliminary
studies necessary to the selection of a station for the observation of
the southern sky. The west coast of South America was chosen for
this purpose, since it offered the possibility of great altitude, in addi-
tion to a dry climate and a clear atmosphere. The funds for this
enterprise had been bequeathed for such a purpose by Uriah A. Boyden,
a Boston engineer.
From the best information which could be obtained in the United
States, it was thought that the valley of the Eiver Eimac, near Lima,
Peru, would furnish conditions favorable for the proposed station.
The valley itself, however, did not offer a sufficiently free horizon,
being shut in everywhere by mountains. There was a wide range for
choice in regard to elevation. The hills near Lima are only a few
hundred feet in height, while the great mountains forming the western
Andes rise eighteen thousand feet above sea level. The primary con-
ditions were an open horizon and a clear sky. To obtain a free horizon
it was only necessary to climb one of the steep and barren summits near
the valley; but to determine where the sky was clearest was a more
difleult problem. At this latitude the western Cordillera extends
