TEE AREQUIPA STATION. 51 1
nearly parallel to the coast at a distance of perhaps sixty or seventy
miles in an air line. The amount of cloudiness at different distances
from the coast varies enormously. A different cloud system prevails
on the coast from that in the mountains. The rainy season in the
mountains is from November or December to March or April, more
or less in different years. Toward the coast the rainfall grows less,
while, in general, little or no rain falls within thirty or forty miles
of the ocean. In Lima there is no rainy season, but there is an ex-
tremely cloudy season. This is due to the low cloud which is found
more or less along the whole coast. This coast cloud is most prevalent
from May to November. Throughout a large part of the year, however,
the coast region of Peru, though almost rainless, is very cloudy. It
seemed, therefore, that while the lofty clouds which cause the rainy
season in the interior are gradually dissipated many miles from the
coast, and the dense coast cloud never extends far away from the ocean,
a situation chosen between these two, if such were possible, might, per-
haps, escape both. With these ideas in mind a site was selected on an
isolated summit, at a distance of about twenty-five miles from the
coast, and at an elevation of six thousand five hundred feet.
The provisional station thus selected was at a distance of about
eight miles from the village and hotel of Chosica, in the Rimac
Valley, from which all supplies, of both food and water, were obtained.
The residents of the hotel were our nearest neighbors, vsdth the excep-
tion of occasional wandering herdsmen. In many ways it was an
ideal location. It was named Mount Harvard, and became well known
in Peru. The outlook was superb. To the east the ranges rose ever
higher and higher to the Great Andes; to the west they fell away in
numberless crests and wavy lines to the Pacific. Five miles away in a
straight line a glimpse of green indicated the valley of the Eimac.
The rest was hidden by mountains. In every direction nothing but
barren mountains was to be seen. Where the buildings stood the soil
was a hard sand, covered here and there with huge bowlders and with
many varieties of cacti. To the north and south we looked down into
gloomy ravines thousands of feet deep. To the east and west the
slopes were more gradual, and there were charming little valleys
needing only water to make them spots of beauty.
The buildings on Mount Harvard were portable structures, carried
for the most part from the United States. They were made of a light
framework of wood, covered with canvas and heavy paper. These
houses and the instruments were conveyed from Chosica on muleback
over a trail constructed for the purpose.
Life on Mount Harvard was somewhat lonely and monotonous,
especially for Mrs. Bailey, who seldom enjoyed the society of any
woman, except that of our amiable half-breed cook. Perhaps the most
