512 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
■unique feature was its situation between two clouds. Below us to the
west was the coast cloud, which reached a varying distance inland
according to the topography. Up the Eimac Valley it flowed like a
great river; occasionally it filled not only the valley, but the barren
ravines that branched from it north and south, rising till it covered
even the ridges at our feet and, flowing around us, formed islands of
Mount Harvard and the other more lofty points. The upper surface of
this cloud was very sharply defined, but of wave-like form, so that its re-
semblance to water was at times so perfect that we could with difficulty
persuade ourselves that far beneath its under surface all the varied
activities of ordinary life were going on cheerfully. If from this view
of clouds wrong side up we turned our eyes upward, we at times saw
another cloud system far above us ; so that frequently we were between
two clouds in a wide but shallow world, ourselves, perhaps, the sole
inhabitants.
Fortunately for our work, the clouds above us appeared but seldom
during the first months of our residence on Mount Harvard. During
this time the extension of the Harvard photometry to the southern sky
was begun. This is a determination of the brightness of all stars
visible to the naked eye, a work begun by Professor Pickering in 1879.
Photographic work was also carried on. The climatic conditions from
April to September were excellent, but later clouds became trouble-
some. This condition of the sky growing worse as the cloudy season
approached, it was decided to devote the following months to a meteoro-
logical study of different localities along the coast, and incidentally
to extend the work of the meridian photometer in some region more
free from clouds. Of the clearness and steadiness of the atmosphere
in these different localities there was no certain knowledge, and the
only way was to investigate it for ourselves. We left the Mount Har-
vard Station early in November in charge of a Peruvian assistant.
During the next four months a personal examination was made by
Dr. M. H. Bailey and myself of what appeared to be the most desirable
localities along the coast, including Arequipa, the region about Lake
Titicaca, both in Peru and in Bolivia, the Desert of Atacama, Valpa-
raiso, Santiago and various other places in Chili. Perhaps no spot in all
America offers a clearer sky than the Desert of Atacama. More than
a month was passed at Pampa Central, near the center of this desert,
and a study was made of the meteorological conditions, while the work
of the meridian photometer was rapidly extended. There is a striking
difference during the Peruvian cloudy season, between the cloudiness
at Mount Harvard or at Arequipa, where the conditions are similar,
and that on the Desert of Atacama. This is well shown in the follow-
ing brief table, where A represents a perfectly clear sky during the
whole night ; B, a clear sky for a portion of the night ; G, sky partially
cloudy all night, and D, sky completely cloudy all night.
