TEE AREQUIPA STATION. 515
stars have been discovered by Professor Pickering, Mr. H. C. Bailey
and the other members of the observatory.
At the present time the equipment of the Arequipa Station of the
observatory consists of the following instruments: the thirteen-inch
Boyden telescope, an instrument so constructed that, by a change in
the position of the lenses, it may be used either for visual or for photo-
graphic work; the twenty-four-inch Bruce photographic telescope, the
most powerful instrument of its class in the world, a gift of the late
Miss Catherine Bruce, of New York ; the eight-inch Bache photographic
telescope; a five-inch refractor, and several smaller instruments of
different kinds.
In general the work carried on in Arequipa is the extension to the
southern sky of that previously begun in Cambridge. This is well
illustrated by the Harvard photometry. With the large meridian
photometer alone more than a million light comparisons have been
made. The greater part of this work was done in Cambridge by the
director and his assistants, but about two hundred thousand observa-
tions have been made by the writer in Arequipa and elsewhere in
South America. This work, planned and begun by Professor Picker-
ing a quarter of a century ago, now furnishes not only precise deter-
minations of the magnitudes of all the brighter stars in the sky, but
also the magnitudes of certain zones of fainter stars, by which the
estimated magnitudes of the stars included in the various great cata-
logues can be reduced to the photometric scale.
With another Pickering photometer, during the last year, several
thousand light comparisons of Eros were made by the waiter. Eros
is that remarkably interesting little planet which at times comes so
near the earth as to be our nearest celestial neighbor. Eros is a vari-
able planet, undergoing striking changes in light. The above observa-
tions showed that during the year 1903 the complete light-cycle was
only 2^^ 38™ G^.l. If these changes are due to the rotation of the
planet, the true period may be that given above, or, more probably,
twice that amount, 5^ 16™ 12s.2.
Visual observations of variable stars have been regularly carried on
since the establishment of the station, although the results have not
yet been published. These observations are now made by Messrs.
Manson and Wyeth. A determination of the longitude and latitude of
the station was made in 1897 by Professor Winslow Upton, of Brown
University. The result was, longitude 4*^ 46^ 12^ west of Green-
wich. The latitude is south 16° 22 28. The longitude of the observ-
atory in Cambridge is 4*^ 44°^ 31^. It follows, therefore, that Arequipa
is about thirty miles west and four thousand miles south of Cambridge.
Photographic work has always occupied a large share of the time
at Arequipa. Several photographic instruments are kept employed
