48 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE PAKENT-STREAM THEORY OF THE RETURN OF
SALMON.
By President DAVID STARR JORDAN,
I.ELAND STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY.
IT has been generally accepted as unquestioned, by packers and
fishermen, that the salmon of the Pacific (king salmon, red
salmon, silver salmon, humpback salmon and dog salmon) all return
to spawn to the very stream in which they were hatched. As early as
18S0, the present writer placed on record his opinion that this theory
was unsound. In a general wa}^, most salmon return to the parent
stream, because when in the sea the parent stream is the one most
easily reached. The channels and runways which directed their course
to the sea may influence their return trip in the same fashion. When
the salmon is mature, the spawning season approaching, it seeks fresh
water. Other things being equal, about the same number will run
each year in the same channel. With all this, we find some curious
facts. Certain streams will have a run of exceptionally large or ex-
ceptionally small red salmon. The time of the run bears some rela-
tion to the length of the stream: those who have farthest to go start
earliest. The time of running bears also a relation to the tempera-
ture of the spawning grounds — where the waters cool off earliest, the
fish run soonest.
The supposed evidence in favor of the parent stream theory may
be considered under three heads:* (1) Distinctive runs in various
streams, (2) return of marked salmon, (3) introduction of salmon
into new streams followed by their return.
Under the first head it is often asserted of fishermen that they
can distinguish the salmon of difi:erent streams. Thus the Lynn
Canal red salmon are larger than those in most waters, and it is
claimed that those of Chilcoot Inlet are larger than those of the
sister streams at Chilcat. The red salmon of Red Fish Bay on
Baranof Island (near Sitka) are said to be much smaller than usual,
and those of the neighboring Kecker Bay are not more than one third
the ordinary size. Those of a small, rapid stream near ISTass River
are more wiry than those of the neighboring large stream. The
same claim is made for the different streams of Puget Sound, each
one having its characteristic run. In all this there is some truth and
* See an excellent article by H. S. Davis in the Pacific Fisherman for July,
1903.
