SI 6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
throughout the whole of ever} clear night. The photographs thus
made are usually examined in Cambridge, where a number of assist-
ants are employed for the purpose. Only in exceptional cases is more
than a preliminary examination made in Arequipa,
The largest instrument in the observatory is the twenty-four-inch
Bruce telescope. This telescope is a doublet, that is, it has a com-
bination of four lenses, giving good definition over a large field. The
scale is the same as that of the instrument used in the international
photographic survey of the sky, but the region covered by each plate is
six times as great, so that the work of covering the whole sky is much
less. With such instruments the work of making a photographic
Durchmusterung of the stars to any desired magnitude would be com-
paratively simple, since a pair of these telescopes, one in the northern,
and the other in the southern, hemisphere could furnish all the plates
needed within two or three years. The Bruce telescope, after a years
trial in Cambridge, was mounted in Arequipa, in 1895, by the writer.
Nearly the whole sky has been photographed with exposures of ten
minutes, showing stars to about the eleventh magnitude. Good prog-
ress has also been made on plates having exposures of sixty minutes,
which show stars to about the fifteenth magnitude. A set of plates has
also been begun, having exposures of four hours. These can only be
made on moonless nights, and a number of years will be required to
cover the whole sky. The approximate number of stars has been deter-
mined on some of these plates. The number varies, in general, from
one thousand to ten thousand stars per square degree. Four hundred
thousand stars have been photographed on a single plate. The whole
number of stars which will be recorded in this splendid set when com-
pleted will probably approach one hundred millions. In addition to
such vast numbers of stars, these plates will also contain numerous
star clusters and nebulae, together with occasional asteroids, comets
and meteors. This set of plates alone would furnish two or three
astronomers with materials for a lifetime of study. A large part of
the plates thus far obtained with this instrument have been made by
Dr. Stewart and Mr. Frost.
An instrument, which has been in constant use since the beginning
of Professor Pickerings photographic researches in 1886 is the Bache
telescope, which has an aperture of eight inches, and a focal length of
four feet. It was employed for several years in Cambridge, then for
a year and a half on Mount Harvard, and since that time in Arequipa.
Altogether, more than thirty thousand photographs of the stars have
been made with this instrument. By its use with an objective prism
photographs of the spectra of all stars to about the eighth magnitude
have been made. A study and classification of these spectra have been
carried out by Professor Pickering as a memorial to the late Dr. Henry
