THE AREQUIPA STATION. 521
chiefly on the self-recording instruments of Kichard Freres. The sta-
tion was established by the writer in 1893, and was visited later by
different members of the observatory, or by some person engaged espe-
cially for the purpose. At such visits the observer rewound the self-
recording instruments and made personal observations. This station
was continued for about seven years. The records were broken, and
not always of the highest accuracy, but it is believed that they will be
of service to meteorology. Personal observations of the highest pre-
cision at this station are much to be desired, but a special gift for this
purpose would be necessary. Few persons could live, even for a few
days, at such an altitude. Nearly every one suffers from mountain sick-
ness,, and sometimes very severely. Nevertheless, there are sufficiently
well educated persons, born in Peru at a high altitude, who could be
engaged for a reasonable sum to pass alternate weeks at the summit.
In this way, for a few thousand dollars, complete records of great pre-
cision and value to science might be obtained. There are also prob-
lems in astronomy and physics, which could be investigated at a well-
equipped station at such an altitude, which perhaps can never be
solved at sea-level.
Arequipa is a city of about thirty thousand inhabitants. It lies
on the western slope of the Cordillera at an elevation of seven thou-
sand five hundred feet. No more beautiful view can well be imagined
than that which is seen as one approaches Arequipa from the coast. It
is built of a soft white volcanic stone, and in the distance appears to be
a city of marble. It is surrounded by wide-spreading green fields of
wheat, corn and alfalfa. It is in a region of volcanoes and earth-
quakes, but the danger from these is slight, either to observers or to
instruments. The observatory is situated on rising ground, about two
miles north of the city, at an elevation of eight thousand feet above
sea-level. To the north rises the great range Chachani, about twenty
thousand feet in elevation; to the northeast El Misti, a volcanic cone
nineteen thousand feet high; and to the east Pichu-Pichu, over seven-
teen thousand feet high.
The climate of Arequipa is superb for those who do not object to a
somewhat rarefied and dry atmosphere. There is scarcely any seasonal
change in temperature during the year, though the diurnal range is
fairly large. The mean maximum and minimum temperatures for the
year 1902 were 68째 and 49째. In the observatory residence, which is
built of stone, the temperature without artificial heat ranges between
60째 and 65째 Fahrenheit. The rainfall is slight, amounting to only two
or three inches during the year. Agricultural pursuits are possible
only by means of irrigation. Around the fertile fields, in whose
center lies the city, extend endless barren pampas. All the waters of
the Chili River, however, are now well utilized, and there is no other
convenient supply.
