THE rnrSSIAN academy- of science. 523
THE EOYAL PRUSSIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE AND
THE FINE AETS. BERLIN.
By EDWARD F. WILLIAMS,
CHICAGO, ILL.
II.
History of the Royal Prussian Academy of Science and the Fine Arts
from its reorganization under Frederich the Great till his
death in 1786.
UNDER the patronage of the new king, which was continued with
increasing sympathy during the forty-six years of his reign, the
academy in Berlin acquired world-wide influence. The Literary
Society of Berlin, Avhich had been a serious rival, was united with it,
and the new organization was named The Royal Prussian Academy of
Science and the Fine Arts. The king had intended, it is thought, that
Voltaire should be its president, but for some reason, greatly to the
mortification of the Frenchman, Francis Algaratti, of Paris, was given
that honor. But he did not retain it long.
The king was anxious to have Wolff, the philosopher, in the academy
as a representative of the thought of the new time, and Maupertuis,
of Paris, as a representative of the attainments and the spirit of Sir
Isaac Newton. Wolff did not care to leave his professorship in Halle,
and though Maupertuis was made one of The Immortals of the
French Academy in 1743, he came to Berlin in 1741, and at the kings
wish, assumed control of the academy and continued at its head till his
death on July 17, 1759. In 1743 the last volume of the Berlin Mis-
cellanies was issued. The academy now entered thoroughly into an
era of reorganization. Its publications became cosmopolitan in char-
acter. Even if expenses increased the income grew. Men of distinc-
tion began to think favorably of Berlin as a home, and of membership
in the academy as desirable. New societies for the study of natural
history and literature, for which the inefficiency of the academy had
furnished an excuse, were united with it on the broad plan of Leibniz.
In the reorganized institution there were to be classes for the study of
physics, mathematics, philosophy and philology, with a director at the
head of each class. There were to be 24 members, and these were to
be selected by the king from lists of names placed in his hand. The
members of the old academy were all retained, but new men of the
highest standing only were granted membership in the new institution.
