THE PEU81SIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE. 525
Each class had the privilege of choosing its own secretary or director,
but in addition there was to be a general secretary entrusted with the
business and general interests of the academy. A treasurer was also
appointed and provision made for two public meetings every year, one
on the kings birthday. In later years one of these public meetings
has been held on what is called Leibniz day, July 11. Sessions were
held weekly on Thursday afternoons. New members were nominated
by the class they were expected to join, but the nomination had to be
approved by the directory of the academy, which was made up of five
secretaries and other officers, then by a general meeting of the academy
and last of all by the king. It was decided that prizes should be offered
every year and that papers of foreigners, if worthy, should be printed
in the proceedings, as well as those by the active or honorary members
of the academy. By the kings order the sessions of the reorganized
academy were held in the castle. They began on January 24, 1743.
It is difficult to give a full history of the academy while Maupertuis
was at its head. He preserved few papers. Although the roll of
officers was full, he was really the academy. It was through his in-
fluence that men of distinction abroad became corresponding or hon-
orary members, and some, at his solicitation, even came to Berlin that
they might work in it and through it.
Deeply interested in the academy and writing papers to be read in
its literary department, the king attended neither its private nor its
public sessions. Nor till toward the end of his reign did he bid any
of its members, save Maupertuis, to his palace. Even Formey, the
famous secretary, was not called to Sans Souci till the king had been
thirty-eight years on the throne. The social circles in Berlin and
Potsdam were not quite the same. Maupertuis made the academy
French in its thought and its aims. Under his guidance and that of-
his successors it was composed of a group of French scholars residing
on German soil. Maupertuis was one of the most gifted men of his
generation. He had great learning, was a diligent student of natural
history and possessed rare powers of conversation. But his influence
was. lessened by his egotism and his pessimism. Still he did his best
for the academy. Its Memoires were sought for in every learned
circle in Europe. Membership in it was regarded by scholars as the
highest honor they could receive. Its atmosphere was tolerant. There
were no limits put upon research or upon free speech. Though Ger-
man was not absolutely excluded, the discussions carried on in the
academy were in French and the Memoires were printed in French.
There were more French-speaking Swiss in the academy prior to the
death of Maupertuis than native-born Frenchmen or Germans. Switzer-
land was producing more learned men than she could sustain, and was
willing they should go to Berlin or wherever else they might employ
their talents to advantage.
