526 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The academy suffered from the seven years war (1756-1763), but
its regular work continued, though few new members were added during
this period. From 1760 to 1764 no Memoires were published.
While Maupertuis was absent on account of the wars and in search of
health, Euler acted as president, and proved himself well qualified
for the duties of that office. But the king had no intention of filling
it with a German. The man he wanted was dAlembert, of Paris, to
whom he offered a large salary, rooms in the palace and a seat at the
royal table if he would come to Berlin. But dAlembert belonged to
the French Academy and did not care to leave Paris. Yet, through
his correspondence with the king, in which during these years the best
history of the academy is found, he directed the work of the German
academy and determined its membership. Virtually he was its presi-
dent, though the king as its protector may be said to have assumed that
office himself. In these conditions the academy became more French
in its spirit than ever. In spite of the fact that the forty-six years of
Fredericks academy were years of the first importance for the develop-
ment of science and literature in Germany, neither the king nor his
French presidents took any notice of the new spirit which had arisen
among the German people, and had begun to show itself in the academy.
Euler, disappointed at the turn matters had taken, after twenty-five
years of hard work in Berlin, asked leave to return to St. Petersburg.
For a time the king declined to grant the request, but its renewal finally
secured his assent, though without any recognition of the fame Euler s
attainments and publications had brought the academy and Berlin.
Ten years later, on accepting honorary membership in the St. Peters-
burg Academy, at that time a rival of tic Berlin Academy, the king
wrote Euler a letter accepting the honor secured for him, and in it
made something like an atonement fcr former neglect. La Grange,
of Turin, second only to Euler as a mathematician, was elected to
the vacancy Euler s departure had made, and about the same time J.
Heinrich Lambert, another mathematician of note, came into the
academy. Prior to dAlembert s connection Avith it the Eulers, father
and son. Pott, Marggraff, Gleditsch, Merian, Sulzer and Suessmilch
had given it fame. Other men of rare ability had been persuaded to
come to Berlin with the promise of membership in it, but Avith the
understanding that they were to teach in the Eitterakademie, an insti-
tution in which the king took much pride and which he founded.
Not many changes in the academy took place during the last sixteen
years of Fredericks reign. Between 1766 and 1770 two volumes of
Memoires, which the war had prevented from appearing, were pub-
lished. With the next issue a new series of Memoires was begun,
greatly improved in binding and paper. Each of these new volumes
contained a brief history of the work of the year.
