TEE PRUSSIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE. 529
Academy. Condorcet consented, but the new relation lasted only six-
teen months.
It had at length become evident to all German scholars that their
academy needed new blood. Its men of fame were growing old. They
had done their work and had lost in a measure their ambition. The
king was growing old also. The changes so necessary and so greatly
desired came, but not till after a new king was on the throne. When
Frederick died, only five Germans belonged to the academy — Gleditsch,
Gerhardt, Eoloff, Walter and Schulze — and they had little influence
in its councils. It is not surprising that many felt that it was a
discredit to Germany that Germans should have so small a part in
determining the character and directing the work of one of their
representative institutions. It was time, men said, that Germans
should be at the head of a German academy of science. It had been
ruled long enough by absentees. Even Leibniz had resided in Hannover
during his presidency, though he had visited Berlin as occasion de-
manded and, being a German, had sought to develop the German spirit.
This had not been the case with Maupertuis, or dAlembert, or Con-
dorcet. Hence the demand for such a reorganization of the academy
as would make it thoroughly German and representative of German
intellectual life. The change, so uniformly desired, was brought about
by one of its members, Minister von Hertzberg, who was made its
curator by Frederick William II. at the very beginning of his reign.
Before passing to consider the history of the academy under the
successors of Frederick the Great, who died on August 17, 1786, and
in its distinctively German period, something should be said concern-
ing the contributions to learning and the new thought which its mem-
bers had made. There can be no question that the papers written by
the king, for the department of fine arts, and read by some one whom
he designated, are among the most valuable possessions of the academy.
This is one of the reasons which has led the academy within recent
years to prepare and publish a complete and worthy edition of his
writings.
From the beginning the academy sought to advance science and
encourage sound learning in Germany. That this was so long done
under the direction of Frenchmen did not really affect the result. But
much as members of the academy were enabled to do for science and
literature through the publications and reports of the academy, they
did far more as individuals, and by private publications. Early in his
reign Frederick the Great expressed a wish that the members of the
academy would give the results of their studies and experiments to the
public in the shape of lectures, and, though this was not generally done,
lectures were given by Gleditsch, the botanist and the founder of
the botanic garden of Berlin, to the medical students, and, at the same
VOL. LXIV. — 34.
