530 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
time, other members of the academy made their discoveries known to
the people. Thus Gerhard lectured on mineralogy, metallurgy and
the theory of mining, and Achard on chemistry, experimental physics
and electricity, so that by 1780 there was a university in Berlin in
everything save name and organization.
After 1744, through the subjects proposed for prizes, the academy
became a sort of guide in study and research for some of the best minds
in Europe. Small as the prizes were, fifty ducats at first and after
1747 a gold medal, they were contended for by the most eminent
scholars and thinkers of the day. Such men as Euler, La Grange,
dAlembert, Kant, Eousseau, Herder, Lessing and Moses Mendelssohn
entered the lists for them. In general, the themes proposed required
a thorough knowledge of an entire discipline and a discussion of its
fundamental principles. For the prize of 1780 forty-two papers were
sent in. During the forty-six years of Fredericks reign 26 German
works were crowned, and 10 French. One written in Italian received
the prize. Of 45 themes treated, 20 were medical or physical in their
character, and 25 philosophical, philological or literary. It is a fact
worthy of note as indicating the intellectual attainments of the min-
istry of the period, that ten of thirty-eight works winning the prize
were written by ministers of the Eeformed or Lutheran church. In
the twenty years following this period the average was even higher.
The eighteenth century was not favorable to exact historical study.
It was fortunate, therefore, that the academy continued to offer prizes
for the discussion of historical themes. The spirit of the time was
philosophical rather than scientific or historical. The successful
didactic poet was in most circles thought to have realized the highest
ideal of life. The writings of Eousseau, Kant and the German idealists
were the means of extending the range of thought, giving it a new
direction, and of introducing a series of questions which demanded
immediate and thorough answer. Advocates of the Leibniz-Wolff
philosophy were opposed by the followers of Newton and the French
school. For a number of years themes were presented by the academy
which seemed to have for their object the overthrow of the philosophy
of Leibniz, and the substitution of that of Newton in its place. But
these were not the only subjects discussed. J. D. Michaelis, the
orientalist, won the prize for 1759 by pointing out, in the best way
possible at the time, the reciprocal infiuence of the people on their
language, and of language upon opinion. In 1763 Moses Mendelssohn
answered, in a manner which satisfied the academy, the question, *Is
metaphysical knowledge susceptible of the same evidence as mathe-
matical? and received the prize, though he had no less a rival than
Immanuel Kant. Yet the rejected essay of Kant gave the death blow
to the philosophy of Wolff. Cochins, court preacher at Potsdam, re-
