THE PRUSSIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE. 531
ceived the prize in 1768 for an essay on the topic, Is it possible to
destroy natural inclination, and how may one strengthen the good and
weaken the bad?, but even here it was Kant who stated the problem
so eflEectively as to overthrow the philosophy of the Aufkldrung and
to establish ethics upon a new and firmer basis. The origin of language
was discussed in 31 treatises in 1769, and the prize awarded to Herder,
who took the ground that it is neither divine in its origin nor an
invention of men, but a gradual growth springing out of the necessities
of human nature and therefore imperfect and incomplete.
One hundred years later this essay received the approval of Jacob
Grimm. In 1775 Herder won a second prize by an essay on The
degeneration of taste in various peoples, and in 1780 on the theme,
What has been the influence of government on letters among the
nations where they have flourished, and what influence have they had
on government ? These essays were epoch-making for historical study.
In 1784 the theme was, What has made the French language the uni-
versal language of Europe, or by what means did it win this promi-
nence? Can we believe that this prominence will be permanent?
Lambert, a man whom Kant regarded as the greatest genius of his
time and in whose judgment as a critic he had complete confidence,
died in 1773, after a membership in the academy of thirteen years.
While he lived he read all that Kant wrote before it was given to the
world. He composed essays for three of the four classes into which
the members of the academy were divided, published in addition to
these papers, fifty-two treatises, perhaps one hundred pamphlets, and
ten very large works. ISTot a little was accomplished by the academy
during these years for geology and mineralogy, as well as for astronomy
and mathematics. Pott made the academy famous in chemistry, but
Marggraff and Achard were large contributors to the science. Walter
succeeded Meckel, the anatomist, in 1773, and laid the foundation by
his splendid achievements of the anatomical museum of the University
of Berlin. Neutral as the academy was in its philosophy, it yet pre-
pared the way for Kant and the general acceptance of his opinions in
Germany. It was equally neutral in religion, and in morals it sym-
pathized with the king, who admired, and probably made his own, the
opinions of Marcus Aurelius and the Stoics. The academy, through
Maupertuis, Euler and La Grange, made the works of ISTewton known
to Germany, and in this way, as well as in many other ways, stimulated
and directed the scientific movement among all the German-speaking
peoples.
Some idea of the industry of the members of the academy may be
formed if we observe the number of works credited to them in its
catalogue. The secretary, Formey, leads with 140 titles. John Gott-
fried Gleditsch has 36 titles. To Gerhard, the geologist, there are
