532 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
given 21 titles, while the younger Kirch, the astronomer, has 37 titles.
Euler, in the quarter of a century he lived in Berlin and worked in the
academy, published in its transactions 121 complete treatises, through
other channels at least 700 more, and, in addition, was the author of
32 quarto and 13 octavo volumes. La Grange, his successor, the dis-
coverer of the calculus of variations, during the thirteen years of his
life in Berlin published 52 important treatises, about 100 pamphlets
and 10 large works. From 1746, when the era of publication really
began, to 1771, 25 volumes of Transactions appeared and 65 volumes
of what are called historical writings. The publications were even
more important between 1771 and 1786. The income of the academy
at the death of the king was nearly $18,000, devoted, it was supposed,
entirely to the discovery and extension of knowledge, and yet, as a
matter of fact, expended to such an extent for buildings and the pay-
ment of salaries at the order of the king as to leave comparatively little
for the support of original investigators, or for costly experiment and
research. In fact the management of the academy, even under
Frederick the Great, was so unsatisfactory as to furnish excuse for the
formation of many learned societies in Berlin, in some of which mem-
bers of the academy took a leading part. Thus in the philosophical
society, which flourished from 1773 to 1798, men like Mendelssohn,
whom the king would not have in the academy, Nicolai, Teller and
Engel were prominent, and a society of naturalists was formed during
this period by the aid of Gleditsch, the botanist, one of the famous
men in the academy. Yet with all its failures, and the fact that it
was so completely under French influence, there can be no doubt that the
Prussian Academy of Science and Fine Arts at the death of Frederick
the Great had become the center of the scientific and critical movement
in Germany, and was regarded all over Europe as a worthy rival of
the Royal Society of Great Britain and of the French Academy in
Paris.
