LIEBIG AND TEE CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES. 533
THE INFLUENCE OF LIEBIG ON THE DEVELOPMENT
OF CHEMICAL INDUSTEIES.*
By Dh. carl DUISBERG,
director of the farbenfabriken vorm. friedr. bayer co. at elberfeld.
rriHE chemical industry is a child of the nineteenth century. The
-L inorganic branch, the so-called industry of heavy chemicals, such
as the manufacture of sulphuric acid in lead chambers, the manufac-
ture of nitric acid, of hydrochloric acid, of sulphate, the manufacture
of soda according to Le Blancs process, the manufacture of chlorine
and bleaching powder according to the processes of Deacon and Wel-
don, was already in operation in the first part of the nineteenth cen-
tury, while the organic branch of the industry, the manufacture of
coal-tar products, of the organic intermediary products, of the aniline
and alizarine dyestuffs, pharmaceutical and photographic preparations,
the artificial sweeteners and artificial perfumes, and the whole crowned
by the synthesis and manufacture of indigo on a large scale, became
known only in the latter part of the last century.
As Liebigs influence on the education of chemists and on the
chemical industries was chiefly exercised during the time he lived in
Giessen, that is until about 1860, and as this influence became of
course perceptible only very gradually and slowly, it is evident that
the organic chemical industries owe most of their progress to Liebig,
and therefore I shall devote my remarks chiefly to a description of
this influence.
As every branch of industry is originally the result of empirical
research, it is very rare for men of great scientific knowledge to be-
come the founders of any new industry. We find that almost in-
variably energetic and enterprising merchants, who possess some tech-
nical skill, are at the head of such undertakings; and thus we find at
the beginning merchants as managers of the factories of the organic
chemical industries. Scientific research pointed out the direction
in which the gold fields were to be discovered, and enterprising and
energetic men marched on the road indicated to the unl^nown regions,
provided with the simplest tools, to uncover the golden treasures and
to free them from the gangue which hid them from the view of man-
kind.
* An address delivered before a joint meeting of the New York Sections
of the Society of Chemical Industry, the American Chemical Society, the
Verein Deutschen Chemiker and the Chemists Club, held in celebration of the
one hundredth anniversary of the birth of Justus von Liebig.
