534 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
This was the case with the first works for the distillation of tar,
as well as with the coal-tar color factories. Tar was not distilled
and split up into its various component parts according to principles
which were founded on rational and exact chemical research, the dif-
ferent hydrocarbons thus obtained were not nitrated, reduced, sulphon-
ated, condensed, etc., in order to be converted into intermediary prod-
ucts and dyestuffs by processes discovered by the scientific investigator.
These operations were executed by the rule of thumb, by men who
had been engaged in kindred industries, in metallurgical works, in dye-
houses, or in pharmacies or drug houses. These men worked in mere
sheds, with vessels which for the most part were taken from the kitchen.
There were no chemists ; there were no laboratories. If it became
necessary to analyze the inorganic crude materials which were used
in the manufacture, it was done in a remote dark corner of the factory
by so-called chemists, who were only educated in analytical schools.
Instant dismissal was the penalty at that time imposed upon any
chemist who dared to enter any of the rooms where the manufacturing
was going on, to try to familiarize himself with the processes for the
preparation of various products. The supervision was exercised by
so-called practical men, who were ignorant even of the simplest prin-
ciples of scientific chemistry, who derived their methods for the manu-
facture from mechanical experiments and who kept the formulae a deep
secret, just as the alchemists concealed their receipts for the art of
making gold.
Meanwhile Liebig had shown by his work in the laboratory in the
quiet and far-away Giessen, by lectures and publications, what im-
portant treasures could be found in all branches of agriculture and
industry by scientifically educated chemists well trained in laboratory
methods, in analyses and syntheses of chemical bodies. He had shown
that a knowledge of general chemistry and of its scientific principles
and practical methods enabled men to advance all branches of the
industries.
Liebig s staff of excellent pupils made their way to all quarters
of the globe to disseminate his ideas and to assist agriculture and the
industries. The light of scientific research kindled by Liebig pene-
trated all branches of industry. It pierced into the darkest factory
rooms which were guarded with many secret locks, and more and more
the truth of Liebig s teaching became recognized, that agriculture and
the industries would accomplish undreamed of results, if scientifically
educated chemists were employed in all branches and were permitted
to exercise control of all methods.
In consequence thereof we now see that these large factories, devoted
to the chemical industries which have drawn into their circle the man-
ufacture of all the heavy chemicals, the production of the intermediary
