LIEBIG AND THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES. 535
products from the distillation of wood and coal-tar, the finished ma-
terials being aniline and alizarine dye-stufEs, indigo, pharmaceutical
and photographic products, artificial sweeteners and artificial perfumes,
are managed esclusively by scientific chemists. The practical man was
forced to yield to the well-educated theoretical man.
Laboratories in which are to be found all the modem apparatus
and implements of science and technique have taken the place of the
dark cellars in which chemists were formerly imprisoned; magnificent
libraries are at the disposal of the investigating chemist of the works,
and everywhere Liebigs spirit rules and everywhere Liebigs methods
are practised.
How much importance the German chemical industry attaches to
the exclusive employment of scientific men, how these are educated at
the universities and polyteclmies, and what means are employed to
maintain the scientific standard of the chemist, all that I had the
honor of pointing out in a lecture, delivered seven years ago during
my first visit to the United States before the New York Section
of the Society of Chemical Industry. Meanwhile the number of
chemists employed in our German factories has not only increased
considerably, but we have also raised the requirements in the educa-
tion of chemists whom we employ in our factories and laboratories.
Where seven years ago, as I then stated, our factory, the Farbenfabriken
vorm. Friedr. Bayer Co. at Elberfeld, had only one hundred chemists,
educated at German universities or high schools, we have now over
160 in our employ.
A systematic organization, founded on a scientific basis, encircles
our works. No effort is omitted to bring to the notice of all the chem-
ists every advance of science, so that they may utilize it for the benefit
of our factory, and every new technical method is at once thoroughly
investigated in order thus to gain new knowledge and create new
products.
The details of such an organization are most interesting. The
control of all raw materials, delivered at the works by water or rail
and of all the intermediary products, are carried out by a central
laboratory, which is devoted to analytical chemistry exclusively. In
this laboratory a large force of analytical specialists is employed.
Here are analyzed not only products which are bought by us, but also
intermediary products which are furnished by one department of our
works to another, and the exchange of goods within our factory is
carried out by contracts which are concluded between the various de-
partments. The analytical methods which are to be used and the
conditions of the contracts are perhaps more stringent than if the
material had been purchased from outside factories. When no an-
