50 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not prove that the salmon are guided by a marvelous geographical instinct
which leads them to their parent river in spite of the fact that the river can
not be found. The waters of Russian River soak through these sand-bars, and
the salmon instinct, we think, leads them merely to search for fresh waters.
This matter is much in need of further investigation; at present, however, we
find no reason to believe that the salmon enter the Rogue River simply because
they were spawned there, or that a salmon hatched in the Clackamas River
is more likely, on that account, to return to the Clackamas than to go up the
Cowlitz or the Des ChQtes.
Attempts have been made to settle this question by marking the
fry. But this is a very difficult matter, indeed. Almost the only
structure which can be safely mutilated is the adipose fin, and this
is often nipped off by sticklebacks and other meddling fish. The
following experiments have been tried, according to Mr. Davis :
In March, 1896, 5,000 king salmon fry were marked by cutting off the
adipose fin, then set free in the Clackamas River. Nearly 400 of these marked
fish are said to have been taken in the Columbia in 1898 and a few more in
1899. In addition a few were taken in 1898, 1899 and 1900 in the Sacramento
River, but in much less numbers than in the Columbia. In the Columbia most
were taken at the mouth of the river where most of the fishing was done, but
a few were in the original stream, the Clackamas. It is stated that the fry
thus set free in the Clackamas came from eggs obtained in the Sacramento —
a matter which has, however, no bearing on the present case.
In the Kalama hatchery on the Columbia River, Washington, 2,000 fry
of the quinnat or king salmon were marked in 1899 by a V-shaped notch in the
caudal fin. Numerous fishes thus marked were taken in the lower Columbia in
1901 and 1902. A few were taken at the Kalama hatchery, but some also at
the hatcheries on Wind River and Clackamas River. At the hatchery on
Chehalis River six or seven were taken, the stream not being a tributary of the
Columbia, but flowing into Shoalwater Bay. None were noticed in the Sacra-
mento. The evidence shows that the most who are hatched in a large stream
tend to return to it, and that in general, most salmon return to the parent
region.
There is no evidence that a salmon hatched in one branch of a river
tends to return there rather than to any other. Experiments of Messrs.
Eutter and Spaulding in marking adult fish at Karluk would indicate
that they roam rather widely about the island before spawning. A
spawning fish set free in Karluk Eiver was found three days later at
Eed Eiver, sixty miles away on the opposite side of Kadiak Island.
The introduction of salmon into new streams may throw some
light on this question. In 1897 and 1898, 3,000,000 young king
salmon fry were set free in Papermill Creek near Olema, California.
This is a small stream flowing into the head of Tomales Bay, and it
had never previously had a run of salmon. In 1900, and especially in
1901, large quinnat salmon appeared in considerable numbers in this
stream. One specimen weighing about sixteen pounds was sent to the
present writer for identification. These fishes certainly returned to
