536 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
alytical methods exist, as is frequeiitly the case with new products, it
is the task of the analytical laboratory to devise such methods, and
the work demanded of our analysts is just as important and difficult
as the task of any other chemist in our employ. Our analytical chem-
ists must have the same scientific education as the others, and we con-
sider them in position and rank on a par with any other chemist.
The manufacturing is of course in the hands of first-class chemists.
The factory is divided into different departments. At the head of each
department one of the most experienced chemists is placed as depart-
ment chief, and he manages his section as a factory in itself. Thus our
works are divided into the inorganic department, the departments for
intermediary organic products, for aniline colors, for alizarine colors
and the pharmaceutical department.
Each of these departments consists of a number of separate divisions
which are again under the management of chemists, all of whom we
have trained ourselves. The chemists of the different divisions be-
longing to one department have a joint laboratory whence they con-
duct the various manufactures, their main object being economical
production and good yields. Each step of the reaction is continually
watched analytically, and thousands upon thousands of experiments
are constantly carried out to improve the processes and above all the
quality of the manufactured products. These chemists have also
charge of the machinery used in their departments, and a scientific
engineer acts in conjunction with them.
Commercially educated employees control the consumption of
chemicals of all kinds in each department, and based on their figures,
and the figures of the consumption of water, gas, steam, ice, compressed
and rarified air, etc., used in the processes, exact calculations are
made for each product monthly. Furthermore, there are scientific
laboratories, one for inorganic chemistry, another for coal-tar colors of
the benzine and naphthaline series, a third for those of the alizarine
and anthraquinone groups, another for pharmaceutical and photo-
graphic products. In these laboratories all reactions which seem to
be of technical importance and which have been described in scientific
and technical journals are tested as to the value. All the patents, is-
sued in the various countries, are studied and their processes executed
on a small scale. The new products which appear in the market are
analyzed and investigated in order to determine their constitution and
their practical value and to ascertain whether they can be utilized in
the manufacture of any new products. It is further the duty of the
heads of these scientific laboratories to inform not only the chemists
who are working under them, but also the other works chemists, of
everything new in chemistry, scientific as well as technical, and regular
