LIEBIG AND TEE CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES. 537
meetings are held, where reports are made on all new discoveries and
publications.
The finished products of each department, both the coloring matters
and the pharmaceutical and photographic products, are tested as to
their efficiency in laboratories especially equipped for the purpose.
The controlling laboratory for coloring matters is provided with all
the machinery and apparatus used in first-class print works and
dye houses. Here the coloring matters are practically applied, and it
is ascertained whether they come up to the requirements or not, and
only when their standard has been determined are they permitted to
leave the factory, A very important part of the work of these control
or testing laboratories consists in examining the many new products
which are the results of the investigations of the scientific laboratories,
as to their usefulness, and to find new methods of application for the
older products.
As the colors are tested in the dye laboratory, so the pharmaceutical
products are investigated in the pharmacological laboratory, at the head
of which we have at our Elberfeld works a prominent representative
of this science, who was a teacher of pharmacology and physiology at
the University of Gottingen. His assistants comprise four physicians
and two bacteriologists who are constantly carrying out animal experi-
ments on frogs, rabbits, cats, dogs, etc.
It will be seen therefore that scientific and systematic research has
in Germany taken the place of empirical experiments. Although every
chemist is a specialist in his own branch, he is enabled to find his way
in any other special line of chemistry on account of his thorough gen-
eral education and the constant accessions to his knowledge.
We should never have reached and would surely not have been able
to maintain the high standing which the German chemical industry
holds in the world now-a-days, unless this scientific bent of mind,
which seems to be a particular quality of the German national char-
acter, had governed our work.
As I did seven years ago, so I have this time taken a four weeks
trip through this beautiful country, and have seen many of the Amer-
ican industries. Owing to the extraordinary hospitality and courtesy
of the inhabitants of all the cities visited, we have been allowed to
inspect almost all the great branches of American industry. Aside
from the various and magnificent textile works of the south and the
east, we have seen the largest steel works and iron foundries, refineries
of petroleum, glass factories, factories for all kinds of electrical appli-
ances and machinery; and of the chemical factories we have visited
some of those engaged in the production of heavy chemicals, factories
of the organic chemical industry and especially those of the electro-
chemical industry.
