LIEBIG AND THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES. 539
labor. This, indeed, is the essence and strength of the American
industry and was the cause for the development of the mechanical
industry, and in this respect America is the ruling nation and has set
an example to the whole world.
But the conditions are quite different in the purely chemical branch
of the industry, the object of which is to convert crude materials by
means of numerous chemical processes and chemical forces into more
precious ones; where a new process devised by a chemist revolutionizes
the industries and makes the old processes unprofitable, even if they
are performed by the most ingenious appliances constructed by the
most talented engineer; where not only the art of construction, but
the genius of the naturalist in recognizing the forces of nature and
their products is necessary to accomplish the object in view; where
never or only rarely the production of large masses comes into consid-
eration, but where an endless chain of products of the greatest variety
must be prepared in small quantities.
If I have sung the praises of the American engineer and of the
American mechanical industry in the preceding portion of this lecture,
I must now express my satisfaction with the German chemist and the
German chemical industry. In this field lies the strength of Germany
— a consequence perhaps of the peculiarity of the German character.
Forced by the want of natural resources and unprovided with Amer-
ican abundance, the German in scientific exploration must proceed in
a cautious and economical manner, always bent on patient and minute
research. He is forced to live a simpler life and to be modest in his
demands, which is contrary to the American temperament.
It is true you have already a very important industry in the inor-
ganic field of our science and produce large quantities of acids and
alkalies and, above all, of metals. In consequence of the immense
and cheap water power at your disposal, a very remarkable electro-
chemical industry has been developed. But these works manufacture
at present only inorganic products, and so far as I can see it is im-
possible up to date to manufacture organic products as economically
by electro-chemistry as it is possible with the older chemical methods.
You have also begun to isolate the products of tar distillation which
are formed during the coking of coal, and it is intended to convert the
hydrocarbons thus obtained into more intricate organic products. You
have also the beginning of a coal-tar color industry, due to the pro-
tective duty of thirty per cent, ad valorem. I have also noted that
in metallurgical and textile works, but above all in factories of heavy
chemicals and pharmaceutical specialties, chemists exercise analytical
control of the raw materials which enter into the process. At some
places we found wonderful laboratories in which many chemists were
employed. We saw above all how your universities and technical
