540 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
schools are endeavoring to promote our science. Excellent representa-
tives of scientific chemistry are employed as teachers. Scientific re-
search is carried on more and more. But, notwithstanding all that,
I think that we Germans need not be alarmed in the near future. The
time for the development of the organic chemical industries on a large
scale has not yet arrived. As I have shown before, the Germans are
masters in manufacture where numberless products are employed in
a series of reactions which finally lead to the finished product, and
require manual labor, which can not possibly be replaced by machinery,
while Americans may claim to be masters where manufactures on a large
scale are concerned, which can be done by machinery. Yet we must not
leave out of consideration the very important facts that in America
wages are extraordinarily high, that the conditions of life are here
much more elaborate, and last, but not least, that the employees, and
more particularly the workmen, manifest a spirit of independence,
which has become especially noticeable during the last few years. By
their labor unions the workmen attempt not only to raise wages to a
height which will make manufacturing difficult and less profitable, but
they are also endeavoring to take the control of the works out of the
hands of the educated managers and put it into the hands of irre-
sponsible labor leaders. This movement, as I have above shown, is
especially fatal for the chemical industry in which our glorious science
should be supreme. But nobody can deny that times will change in
all these respects. Then you will be obliged to husband more econom-
ically your natural treasures, and you will experience changes which
with us, in the course of historical development, are already things
of the past. But this accomplished, the organic chemical industry
of this country will commence to flourish. It will be found that
the only way that leads to success in chemical manufactures is a com-
bination of science and technics, the two branches of which eminent
representatives are to-day assembled here, men who in their spheres
have done so much already for the advancement of industries. It
will be found that technical progress in this industry can only be
secured on the basis of purely scientific research, and to the man who
first recognized this fact and taught it to the world, to our great fellow
countryman, Justus von Liebig, not only the German, but also the
great American, nation, nay the whole world, owes eternal gratitude.
