THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 541
THE CONSEEVATION OF ENERGY IN THOSE OF
ADVANCING YEAES. III.
By J. MADISON TAYLOR, A.M., M.D.,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
How to Postpone the Degenerative Effects of Old Age.
A EEVIEW of the foregoing phenomena of advancing years points
-*--^ clearly to the line upon which these may be in part controlled or
delayed. It is not to be expected that we can secure the cooperation
of most, or indeed many, people in pursuing preventive measures. If
that were possible, and when it is possible, great things could be accom-
plished. However, certain principles obtain here which should be out-
lined so that whosoever may see fit to do so can follow these sug-
gestions to their advantage. It will be found that the evidence of
those who have studied this subject most carefully shows that normal
bodily exercises are not to be forbidden, but rather encouraged. Per
contra, if bodily activities are not pursued there must inevitably follow
much more rapid retrograde changes in all the tissues. In respect to
the diet it is universally admitted that after middle life the amount
of food taken should be less than before that time and the changes in
diet should be rather to use less of the structure-forming materials,
though not always to exclude them. Again there should be used
relatively little, indeed as little as possible, of stimulating articles of
food, which make more for acceptability than necessity. In short, the
simple rule should be observed of eating no more than, a perfectly
normal appetite craves, and as little as possible of those things taken
because they are agreeable. As the period of old age is reached, by
which is meant about seventy years, the regimen should be markedly
simplified and always taken with the greatest deliberation. A general
rule is recognized to obtain in most cases, that the more nearly the diet
is reduced to bread and milk and fruits the longer will the person live
and enjoy good health. It must be borne in mind, however, that
exceptions will occur, and where the strength is being rapidly lost from
any cause it is wise to increase the variety and encourage food taking
until the strength is restored to the normal for the age reached. The
digestive processes, as well as all the processes, are slower in advancing
years.
Some persons can get along best with long intervals between feed-
ing; others, the majority, do better by taking small amounts of food
at short intervals. The evacuations appear lacking in activity and
must be encouraged by rational measures, but not forced by purgative
or strongly diuretic drugs. This is best met by suitable articles of
