542 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
diet, bulky and yet not calculated to produce fermentative changes.
Such qualities are found in fruits, nuts, cereal compounds and salads.
Probably the best drink is buttermilk, which seems to have a salutary
effect on the action of both the bowels and the kidneys. Next comes
koumyss or zoolak, upon which some elderly folk have been known to
subsist almost entirely for years. It is easily made at home and can
be thus supplied fresh and sound and is within the reach of all, poor
as well as rich. Of the cereals, Indian meal is in some respects the
best, in the form of either bread or porridge. Overmuch yeast bread
is objectionable, disturbing digestion and encouraging rigidities. The
question of the red meats must be studied with regard to the peculiar-
ities of the individual, but is needed very little, usually not at all.
Of fluids, these are best taken in abundance, but where the heart is
weak it is not wise to take them freely before exercise, as at this time
they throw a perilous strain on the cardiac structures. Medicated
waters are oftentimes useful, but the less inorganic drugs enter the
system the better. The habit of constantly using lithia salts, exerting
as they do a certain form of irritation, is to be condemned. If
arteriosclerosis is present the vaso-dilator drugs are useful, especially
in the forms of natural mineral waters ; aconite suits many better than
nitrites.
The care of the skin is of paramount importance, and the first
desideratum is to employ systematic and thorough rubbing and brush-
ing of the surface from head to heel. The flesh brush or mitten
made of coarse toweling, used by the patient for half an hour at a
time night and morning, serves many admirable ends and is better than
too much bathing. A good plan is for the patient before rising to
employ this skin stimulus and mild exercise thoroughly while in the
recumbent position; if preferred and he is strong enough it is better
done while sitting. The skin of old age tends to become harsh,
rigid and dry, and after this effleurage it is well to rub into the body
a certain amount of some oil, and it will be found that the skin
wiU take up thus sometimes an enormous quantity. Olive oil or
cocoa butter is perhaps best, but preparations containing lanolin
are excellent, especially if it is desired to increase the weight and aid
accumulations of fat. Sometimes crude petroleum is found useful
where stimulation of the surface is required. If the skin be hypersen-
sitive, thought must be given and changes advised in these procedures
until the skin becomes inured to a suitable amount of mechanical
stimulus. Old people are sensitive to cold because their surface re-
sistance is lowered and their heat-producing powers are waning. The
tendency shown by many to stay indoors and keep themselves over-
protected and over-clothed is a grave error. This habit should be over-
come gradually but firmly, and the patient should be in the open air as
much as possible, the clothing used being sufficient, but never too much.
