THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 543
This is particularly true of underwear, which should be light and porous,
preferably linen next to the skin, which can be supplemented by extra
woolen underwear placed over this to vary with the conditions of the
temperature. Outings are essential to encourage free oxygenation
through the lungs and the skin. Chill of surface is much more likely
to follow exertion where too much or too heavy underwear is used, and
the results are far more serious than if there is too little. If the skin
be leaky, becoming readily moist on exertion, excessive precaution must
be used lest secondary chill follow. If the underwear is made damp
by exercise, it is important to change this as soon as possible and
whenever it is produced. Above all the foot gear should be frequently
changed to secure airing of these over-clothed members.
The most important specific recommendations I wish to offer for
the postponement of the degenerative effects of age and for the recovery
of so much of the normal vigor as is possible in each have to do with
the forms and qualities of the exercises. As has been shown, the
tendency of the tissues in advancing age is toward a steady and irre-
trievable hardening or stiffening or loss of elasticity, due to normal or
abnormal increase in the connective tissue. The results of these changes
are seen not only in the rigidity of the spinal column and ligaments,
the skin, the muscle sheaths, the structures of the blood vessels, the
connective tissue framework of the great organs, etc., which are obvious
enough, but the really disastrous effects are those brought about by
this xerosis upon the organs concerned in the processes of nutrition
and of the special senses. This point I do not see brought out in any
literature which has met my eye. Let me illustrate this. We have,
as age creeps on, a loss in cellular activity in the functions of the special
senses, well shown for example in dimness of vision, loss of hearing
and slowness of cerebration. Much of this is inevitable and must
continue. Some of this, however, can be delayed almost indefinitely.
It will be observed that the tissues about the neck of an old person
exhibit conspicuous loss of elasticity, so much that oftentimes dense
rigidities are present, especially marked in the nuchal region.
I have been surprised and gratified to find that regulated move-
ments of the neck and upper truncal muscles, employed for the pur-
pose of accomplishing something else, resulted in a conspicuous im-
provement in hearing, in vision, in cerebration and, as a consequence of
a betterment in cerebral circulation, also in sleep. Following this
thought I have repeatedly been able to promise, and fulfil the promise,
that an individual who had suffered impairment in these particulars
should enjoy distinct improvement in the function of sense organs by
employing regulated movements.
What is true of these structures is equally true of the abdominal
viscera. A large proportion of the digestive disturbances, even of those
in earlier middle life, are due to a relaxation in the supporting tissues
