THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 545
If the neck-bones are held vertically, the ribs well lifted, and a
moderate degree of tension exerted upon the abdominal walls, the
viscera will rest upon, and within, the confines of the pelvis, and this
position should be learned and practised; nor is it at all difficult if
the attention is directed that way and some little familiarity acquired
in maintaining the correct position. The body can not be held in
normal attitudes unless the skeletal muscles are in fairly good tone.
Most of these effects can be secured by a skillful use of breathing
exercises.
It will be obvious to any one that those persons who habitually
maintain an erect position in standing or sitting are stronger than
those who stoop or slouch. It may be said that many of the last are
perfectly well and strong, and it must be replied that they are not as
well as and as strong as they should be, and further that their abdom-
inal tissues are in perpetual danger, because an organ, or part of the
body, which stands outside of its normal lines of adjustment comes
closely to being in the position of a foreign body, and can not be so well
protected by the central nervous control mechanism. Again, the position
of the organs in the thorax are in less danger than those of the
abdomen, because they have a well-constructed box to dwell in, but
nevertheless they too are subjected to a good many perils if out of
alignment. A person who stoops and allows the shoulders to sag down
and forward and the ribs to fall back toward the spine, shortens the
anteroposterior diameter of the thorax anywhere from two to five
inches. It needs little demonstration to show that the lungs, heart,
great vessels and other important structures in the thorax can not live,
and move and have their proper being under such circumstances. Not
only so, but prompt and adequate attention to these conditions results
in not only improving the general health, but goes far toward main-
taining symmetric functional action and the postponement of senile
changes in the connective tissue.
In short, all these facts are rehearsed to give prominence to the
conclusion, which seems to me inevitable, and abundantly demon-
strated by data in my experience, that attention to proper attitudes,
involving economies in interorganic relationships, is the one funda-
mental factor in postponing senile changes. The physiologic rea-
son for urging care and persistence in retaining elasticity of tissues
is to be found in the fact that sclerotic changes and faulty attitudes
combine to interfere with peripheral vascular competence as well
as peripheral innervation. To recur for a moment to the illustra-
tion used above, of the marked improvements following increased
flexibility in the tissues of the upper thorax and neck, it is my opinion
that this is to be brought about by thus promoting and encouraging
fuller circulatory interchanges, especially of the lymphatic channels.
VOL. liViv. — 35.
