THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 547
estimation of the limiting conditions present, improvement results.
This is true, and demonstrated to be so, under circumstances which
would be considered prohibitive ; for instance, where there have been ob-
served those phenomena supposed to indicate threatened apoplexy, how-
ever that term be interpreted. 1 have had a number of cases under ob-
servation for many years where I was originally consulted for a train of
symptoms which pointed toward cerebral changes such as vertigo, lapse
of memory, sensory disturbances in hearing and in sight, formications,
paresthesias, periods of brief unconsciousness, etc., in people of seventy
years or more. Ordinarily the treatment advised for such conditions
would be to reduce the individual to live the life of a hothouse plant.
I have found in this contingency great practical advantage in attend-
ing to the cutaneous elimination, especially by frictions, oilings, mas-
sage, passive movements carried on to full stretchings as described
above, and gradual increments of stretching exercises, forceful exten-
sions and finally free movements and open-air life. Some of the in-
dividuals are now past eighty, strong and well. Even where there are
found to be alterations in the kidneys, sometimes albumen, casts and
sugar, the encouragement of the peripheral vascular stimulus was
followed by the happiest results. Above all, in the cardiac arhythmias
attention to the skin and regulated movements reduce these and some-
times cause them to disappear.
The pulse in old people, as has been said, is quicker than in
middle life. The average of those cases reported by Humphrey, all
of them over eighty years of age, were for men seventy-three per
minute, and women seventy-eight, and the average respiration was
seventeen. The proportion of regular to irregular pulse was four
to one. I find irregularity in the pulse more common, indeed, it
is generally present more or less even in the healthiest. Humphrey
also found in the majority of old persons examined, little or no
change in the arterial system. Clifford Allbut makes the assertion
that in many cases of extreme age no evidence of arteriosclerosis
is to be found. One of the oft-recurring phenomena of old age is
edema due to the loss of vascular tone and defective lymph circulation.
This condition would be much less frequent if the tissues, especially
the larger muscles, were kept in a condition of elasticity, thus relieving
direct pressure and occlusion of the contained avenues of circulation.
The exhaustion after fatigue is not well recovered from in the aged,
and hence it is not permissible to maintain protracted activities; these
should be supplemented by definite periods of rest, and if the heart be
not strong this should be taken lying down, but this is no reason to en-
courage complete inaction. Again, the change characteristic of the
bones of the aged, their loss of weight due to diminution in size, the
walls of the shaft becoming thinned throughout from within, especially
towards the ends of the bones, as at the head of the femur, forbids strong
