548 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
muscular exertion such as lifting. Nor should activities be sudden and
severe, otherwise the danger of a false step and a fall may result in
a shock or fracture or both. Nor is it important nor desirable that the
muscles should be kept at their full strength, even if it were possible.
The quality of musculature is mainly desirable for the purpose of
oxygenation and to maintain full skin activity, freedom from stiffness
and the consequent compression upon the blood vessels and nerves. In
short, the component parts of the machine in healthy old age are slowly
and equally weakened. They fail to respond to calls, the centers giving
out less early than the outer parts, but these same centers should be
maintained at their best for so long as it is possible. Finally the wheels
of the machine stop. This slow decline is really a beautiful spectacle and
requires the sheltering influences of civilization and sympathetic care.
In the state of primitive society man died even as the animals and
birds die, the one by the hand of the stronger. When assailed by sick-
ness or age, death came swiftly from one or another agency of nature,
either from animal or man. In civilization much vigor can be con-
served indefinitely, or at least to well toward the century mark, provided
the aged persons exercise judgment in the manner of life lived; and
if cut off before a reasonable time the fault lies within themselves or
their circumstances. In this slower decline it is more possible for
disease and decay to become manifest, but even here prevention is a large
possibility. If the heart, or the digestive organs, shall be kept dispro-
portionately vigorous they will overload and press the other organs, and
one of these, the weaker one, gives way.
The use of inorganic drugs has little place in relieving the grave
disorders of the old. When these are found in the form of the natural
mineral waters they have, since time immemorial, been held in high
esteem for definite and indisputable good effects, the nature of which
has never been satisfactorily explained. Modern studies on the phys-
iology of the blood, especially of the serum, helps to account for this.
Eecently Trunecek, of Prague, has announced a method of treating
the phenomena of arteriosclerosis which has been not only most suc-
cessful, but suggestive, and seems to me to throw light on the value of
mineral waters which will prove a rich field for research. His thesis
is that certain salts can be introduced into the blood current which
shall aid in dissolving the calcium phosphate found in the structure
of the sclerosed vessels. Hence he adopted the plan of throwing into
the circulation direct, by hypodermoclysis or intravenously, a strong
solution of sodium phosphate and magnesium phosphate which are
found normally in blood serum but only in minute quantities. His
followers have obtained gratifying results, and many modifications are
made of his original solution. Leopold Levi used this by the bowel
and the mouth and it was found that the latter gave just as good effects.
Under this treatment the usual discomforts and evidences of dis-
