THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 549
turbed circulation, such as dyspnea, asthma, vertigo, angina pectoris
and prostration, rapidly lessened or disappeared far better than by the
use of aconite, iodides and nitrites, although it occasionally transpired
that when these last were also used the progress was more satisfactory.
It occurred to me to review the analysis of the various mineral
waters, and I was surprised to find how many of them exhibited like-
wise many of these ingredients, in varying proportions, along with one
or other factor to which the virtue of the water was chiefly attributed.
Hitherto these factitious items have been regarded as indifferent or to
them have been attributed various hypothetic or conjectural virtues. We
have been long recognizing that the use of certain of the alkaline
waters lessened the acidity of the urine and presumably of the blood,
and the laity have been taught, partly by the profession but chiefly by
the manufacturing chemists and the public press, that if ever the
demon of uric acid can be laid, by the ingestion of enough of lithia
salts or of some of the new and wonderful substances the special prod-
uct of the great laboratories, their imperiled lives can be saved and
most ills removed. The reaction against this notion has set in, but
the fad remains, and will prevail long among the people, and the non-
reading of the profession, that alkalies are helpful in a vast variety of
vague states accompanied by the output of the uric acid in the urine
common to about one fifth of the community. The real point of effort
should be the restoration of the functional activity of the liver, whicH
has to do with the conversion of ammonium cyanate, uric acid and
other end products into urea. This is to be accomplished in a number
of ways, the basis of which is to bring about bettered circulation in
the liver and more complete functional power. For this, as well as to
accomplish many other functional betterments, no single measure is
comparable to regulated, deep breathing exercises. Complete expulsion
is even more necessary than full inspiration. The abdominal muscles
can thus be made to press upon the viscera, especially the liver and
great organs, aiding largely in vascular interchanges hence secretion
and excretion. By this means chiefly, if not alone, bowel action is
sometimes regulated, and kidney competence enhanced.
There may be, and it seems that there is, considerable efficacy in
the use of natural mineral waters, which exhibit a reasonable propor-
tion of those salts that exert a solvent action on lime salts or other
adventitious substances. Drugs, however, serve a temporary purpose
and, in such conditions as the discomforts arising in beginning de-
generative processes of age, would seem to need an indefinite con-
tinuance. The real curative remedy and defensive measure is in aiding
oxidation of the tissues by all rational means, special movements and
stimulation of the vasomotor mechanism of the great eliminating
organs.
4^JL,-
