SSo POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE CAUCASIAN IN BRAZIL.
By THOMAS C. DAWSON,
SECEETARY OF THE U. S. LEGATION, BRAZIL.
/^ONTEOL of trade routes and mineral supplies have been the two
^^ chief factors in determining the industrial and political su-
premacy of races and nations. It is evident that a third — the control
of the food supplies from the tropics — will soon be equally vital to
civilized man. The tropical zone is a great laboratory where natures
forces are manufacturing food on a tremendous scale. There the suns
vivifying rays fall in the greatest abundance, building up with a rapid-
ity impossible in the temperate parts of the globe the elements of the
air, water and soil in those complex compounds which are the essential
basis of life. Leaving out of consideration the dream that inventive
genius may some day devise artificial methods of employing the suns
chemical forces in directly producing food, it is certain that if he
continues to multiply in his present geometrical ratio, the European
must utilize the tropics.
India and the east already contain a dense population; but the
negroes who inhabit tropical Africa do not begin to exhaust its poten-
tial resources, and South America, the queen of the continents from
an economic standpoint, is virtually untouched. How and by whom
shall these regions be occupied and developed? Three solutions are
possible :
1. Races predominantly black or yellow, who shall have developed
among themselves or acquired from the whites economic and political
efficiency, may be the future masters of the now unoccupied parts of
the tropical zone. Southern China is a proof that such an outcome is
possible.
2. Colored people under the direction and government of northern
nations may cultivate the soil and export the surplus. This would be
something parallel to the present condition of India.
3. The whites of European descent may themselves emigrate to
the tropics, crowd out or absorb the colored races, and either pure, or
predominating in the resulting mixture, constitute the bulk of the
population.
The last alternative is rarely taken into consideration, because it is
an accepted commonplace of popular belief and scientific discussion
that the white man is not fitted to the tropics — that the European
