552 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tlie whites are more fecund, and the successive censuses appear to prove
that during the three and a half centuries which have elapsed since
the settlement of the country, the comparatively few white immigrants
have multiplied at a far more rapid ratio than the multitudes of negroes
brought over from Africa, or the Indian aborigines.
In 1890 an enumeration was made of the married couples in the
city of Eio de Janeiro; the race and color of each partner was ascer-
tained and reported, and also the number of children born of each
marriage. The average number of children in families where both
parents were white is given as 3.507, while the black families produced
only 2.987, and the intermarriages of blacks and mulattoes, 2.908. Of
all the children 75.2 per cent, were the offspring of parents who were
both white, leaving 24.8 per cent, for children of mixed or colored
blood. The total white population was returned as 62.7 per cent, and
of the other races at 37.3. Taking the four races separately, the
whites, numbering 62.7 per cent, of the total population, took part in
only 6.9 per cent, of the marriages and only 6.1 per cent, of the chil-
dren had one or both parents black. The Indians were 3.4 of the
population and furnished 2.4 per cent, of the marriages and children.
Those reported as mulattoes composed 21.6 per cent, of the population,
but took part in only 13.9 per cent, of the marriages, which produced
13.2 per cent, of the children. Irregular unions producing children are
reported as marriages, and therefore the differences indicated above can
not be explained by assuming that negroes, mulattoes and Indians
live in concubinage more than the whites. A considerable number of
those reported as white have a small amount of negro or Indian
blood in their veins, but this fact does not affect the conclusion that
fecundity increases with the predominance of white descent.
Leaving out the mixed marriages, the superior fecundity of the
whites is still more apparent. Of the children of unions where both
parties belonged to the same race, 81.6 were white; 11, mulatto; 5.3,
negro, and 2.1, Indian, while the respective percentages of total pop-
ulation were: white, 62.7; mulatto, 21.6; negro, 12.3, and Indian, 3.4.
It is therefore clear that even in Rio, a seacoast city whose climate
is reputed particularly fatal to Europeans, whites now show a greater
propensity to marriage than the black or mixed races, and that their
unions are more prolific. Comparative mortality statistics are not
available, but it is probable that the acclimatized whites are longer
lived than the other components of the population, and that this has
cooperated with their superior fecundity in bringing about a more
rapid increase as compared with other races. The various censuses of
the city of Eio de Janeiro taken in the last hundred years show the
result that was to be expected from the above figures. The percentage
of whites increased from 45 per cent, in 1799 to 55 per cent, in 1872,
