TEE CAUCASIAN IN BRAZIL. 555
611,000, while the negro arrivals had ceased almost entirely with the
abolition of the slave trade. The census of 1890 does not give race
numbers as to many localities, but estimating these on the basis of the
sections where the relative proportions were ascertained, the percentage
of whites is 44; of negroes, 18; of mulattoes, 35, and of Indians, 3.
Dividing the total population into its race elements according to the
principle already used with the figures for 1872, after making an allow-
ance for the lessening proportion of dark blood among the reported
whites, we find that in 1890 there was 49 per cent, of white blood,
47 black and 4 Indian.
The tendency of the pure negroes to decrease in numbers is con-
clusively shown by the accurate statistics of the slave population kept
during the existence of that institution in Brazil. In 1818 the slaves
numbered 2,350,000; in 1872, 1,510,806; in 1887, adding their chil-
dren born free under the gradual emancipation law of 1873, 1,183,250.
The immense extent of Brazil, the wide variations in climate, soil
and altitude, the predominance of sugar culture with the employment
of great gangs of slaves on large plantations in some localities, and of
the cattle industry which the whites are fond of in others, and the
fact that sometimes the Indians were collected into villages of their
own and sometimes were enslaved and almost exterminated, have caused
great differences between the various states in the relative numbers of
the three races. The limits of this article do not permit a discussion
of each state separately, but it would confirm the conclusions already
indicated.
Even in the parts of Brazil which are the most tropical and least
attractive to Europeans, and where white immigration during the last
century was inappreciable, such as the non-coffee and sugar states of
the central and northern coast, and the wild and remote interior in-
cluded in the states of Goyaz, Minas and Matto Grosso, the whites have
increased more rapidly than pure negroes or Indians. The latter tend
to disappear into the mass of mixed bloods who constitute the bulk of
the population. A large proportion of the Caucasians have, however,
maintained themselves in direct, prolific and unmixed lines for three
hundred and seventy years, and their commercial and intellectual
dominance has never been threatened.
In the favored regions of the south the preponderance of the whites
is enormous and is rapidly increasing. On the coffee plantations of
Sao Paulo, where the negro slave formerly did all the work, he has
been completely displaced by the immigrant from Europe. The
negroes and mulattoes have little chance of intermarrying with the
whites; their unions among themselves produce a small number of
children, and they show little providence in forming and taking care
of families. They do not have, as do their contemporaries in the
