52 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
1890, he established himself in a small stream called Jadgeska on
the west coast of Etolin Island, tributary to McHenry Inlet, Clar-
ence Straits. This stream led from a lake, and in it a few thousand
red salmon spawned, besides multitudes of silver salmon, dog salmon
and humpback salmon. Making a dam across the stream, he helped
the red salmon over it, destroying all the inferior kinds which
entered the stream. He also established a hatchery for the red salmon,
turning loose many thousand fry each year for about twelve years.
This was done in the expectation that all the salmon hatched would
return to Jadgeska in about four years. By destroying all individuals
of other species attempting to run, it was expected that these would
become extinct so far as the stream is concerned.
The result of this experiment has been disappointment. After
twelve years or more there has been no increase of red salmon in the
stream, and no decrease of humpbacks and other humbler forms of
salmon. Mr. Callbreath draws the conclusion that salmon run at
a much greater age than has been supposed — perhaps at the age of
sixteen years, instead of four. A far more probable conclusion
is that the salmon set free by him have joined other bands bound for
more suitable streams. It is indeed claimed that since the estab-
lishment of Callbreath s hatchery on Etolin Island, there has been
a notable increase of the salmon run in various streams of Prince
of Wales Island on the opposite side of Clarence Straits. But this
statement, while largely current among the cannerymen, and not
improbable, needs verification.
We shall await with much interest the return of the millions of
young salmon hatched in 1902, and turned loose in Naha stream. We
may venture the prophecy that while a large percentage will return
to Loring, many others will enter Yes Bay, Karta Bay, Moira Sound
and other red salmon waters along the line of their return from
Dixon Entrance or the open sea.
