TEE AIR OF THE LURAY CAVERNS. 557
THE AIE OF THE LURAY CAVERNS.
By guy L. HUNNER, M.D.,
THE JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY MEDICAL SCHOOL.
AT Luray, Page County, Virginia, is located a health resort which
represents an idea unique in hospital or sanitarium construc-
tion. The dwellers in Limair may keep their doors and windows closed
summer and winter, and still breathe air as pure as that of the moun-
tain side.
My acquaintance with this institution began in the fall of 1901,
when making a vacation drive through the Shenandoah country. After
a ramble through the Luray Caverns, our party was shown through
the sanitarium and treated to the novel experience of living in the
caverns air, while enjoying a full measure of light and sunshine.
Limair has an elevation of about one thousand feet above the sea
level. It stands on a hill about two hundred feet above the neighbor-
ing water courses, and commands a magnificent view of the Page
Valley with the enclosing mountain ranges — the Blue Ridge to the east
and Massanutten range to the west. These mountains are from three
thousand to four thousand feet high, and as seen from the elevation
in the center of the valley they present a panorama of never-failing
interest. The Page Valley is said to enjoy more sunshine than can be
elsewhere found in the United States east of the Rocky Mountains.
A pine forest of about one hundred and forty acres which covers the
Luray Caverns hill affords beautiful walks and drives, and is not the
least of the attractive features of the place, when considered as a health
resort.
Mr. T. C, Northcott, builder and proprietor of Limair, is a heating
and ventilating engineer of twenty years experience, and he has de-
voted many years to the problem of establishing an institution that
would combine the advantages of sunlight and beautiful surroundings
with an air supply at once voluminous and pure. After investigating
the caves of New York, Ohio and Virginia he secured building and
park privileges over the Luray Caverns as a site comprising the greatest
number of healthful and attractive features. A reference to the
photographs (Figs. 2 and 3) will give an idea of how well the site has
been chosen. The drawing (Fig. 1) explains the methods of air
supply and ventilation, but only a visit to the institution will demon-
strate how completely the theories of the engineer are being worked out
in practical results.
