558
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Fig. 1. Showing Methods of Air Supply and Ventilation.
The fan, shown in drawing, is run by steam-engine (not shown) and draws
the air upward, from the great chambers of the caverns, through the shaft A.
By opening door C, also door R, the air can be forced through corridor M,
directly to plenum F, as indicated by arrows marked 8^, and distributed through
the rooms without passing through condenser. With door C closed the whole
volume of air is drawn through condenser B before coming to the fan. Passing
through the fan (door in partition at R being closed), the air passes through an
auxiliary condenser D to plenum F, whence it is forced by pressure of the fan
into all rooms. The air from plenum is forced through a heat chamber, over
steam coil, in cold weather, thence through opening into the air supply pipe G
and discharged into room H through a register just below ceiling of room. If
room becomes too warm, the volume of warm air flowing in pipe G may be re-
duced or entirely stopped, by pulling cord or chain suspended from the inflow
register in room, thus moving valve in pipe G. The movement of this valve
permits as much cool air to rise through a lower opening, as warm air is shut
off by closing the opening from the coil, or heat chamber. Process last de-
scribed may be traced by arrows marked 8. The outflow of air from rooms may
be traced by arrows marked E. Air is forced from room H into vertical duct K,
which is continued to top of building permitting air to escape outdoors. The
air passes into, through and out of the rooms in volume equal to the filling of
each room, in the building every five minutes continuously. In the summer
there is, of course, no heat in the steam coils. The air drawn from the caverns
being about 54 degrees, when forced into the building, cools the rooms to any
degree comfort may demand, however intense the heat prevailing outside.
At my first visit, in the fall of 1901, I saw demonstrated the re-
markable volume in which the air enters and leaves each room without
creating appreciable draughts, and the fact that the air is practically
free from atmospheric dust. Tyndall (Lectures on Dust and Disease)
has shown that if we darken the ordinary room and allow a streak of
sunlight to enter, the condition of the atmosphere revealed is such that
