TEE AIR OF THE LUBAY GAVERN8. 559
we can not without repugnance step into the illuminated area and
breathe. Such an experiment in a room in Limair reveals scarcely
a particle of dust floating in the air; *. e., the air is optically pure.
Noting this fact, I became interested in the bacteriologic condition, and
determined to visit Luray again, supplied with culture media and
sterile plates.
In December, 1902, fitted out with five dozen sterile plates and six
dozen tubes of agar-agar, I spent four days at Luray studying the
bacteriologic conditions in the caverns, sanitarium, out of doors, and
in neighboring homes. My plates were prepared by being wrapped in
separate paper covers, sterilized in dry heat and transferred to a box
still wrapped in their paper covers. The agar-agar was in separate
tubes stoppered as usual with cotton plugs. Each morning before
starting in quest of bacteria the required number of fresh plates were
prepared. That my technic was entirely satisfactory was demon-
strated by setting a closed control plate at each place where other plates
were exposed. The readings from the plates were made after incuba-
tion for twenty-four hours at 85 degrees P. On the first day the
exposures and results were as follows:
1. In the caverns : Three plates in Vegetable Garden, 50 yards from
entrance; plates exposed five minutes and one hour and the control
plate were all negative.
Three plates at Crystal Spring, 100 yards from entrance; on plate
exposed five minutes, two colonies; plate exposed 50 minutes, negative;
the control plate, negative.
Three plates at Skeleton Gorge, 200 yards from entrance; 5
minutes, 35 minutes, and control, all negative.
Three plates at Cathedral Eoom, 300 yards from entrance; 5
minutes, 30 minutes, and control, all negative.
2. In the air passage between the cave and the house (see Fig. 1)
four plates were exposed for one half hour as follows: Plate 1, at the
mouth of the air shaft coming from the caverns. A; plate 2, in the
beginning of the long auxiliary condenser, D^ just beyond the fan;
plate 3, at the other end of the auxiliary condenser; plate 4, on the
floor of the plenmn, where the air rushes down from the condenser.
On none of these plates was there any growth.
3. In the sanitarium three plates were exposed for respectively 5,
20 and 60 minutes in each of three rooms, viz., the library on the first
floor; a guest chamber on the second floor, not used for the previous
week; and in a bedroom on the second floor, in constant use. The
morning work had been done in this latter room one hour before my
plates were placed on the bed. One colony on the five-minute plate,
and three colonies on the 60-minute plate in this room, and two
colonies on the hour plate in the library were the only results from
these nine plates.
