56o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
On the evening after my first days work, the daughter of the
household gave a party to about fifty young people of Luray, and on
making my first examination of the plates, I was so astounded at the
results that I immediately prepared more plates, thinking that enough
dust and dirt would have been left in the house on the previous even-
ing materially to alter results. I was even more surprised after ex-
posure of plates for two hours in the library, reception hall and game
room, to find the most contaminated plate to contain only nine colo-
nies. This was the plate exposed on the mantle shelf immediately
above a large open fireplace in the reception hall, between the hours
of eleven and one oclock noon, when the household of about six people
was moving about as usual on a winter morning.
Plates were set for two hours in the caverns on the second day at
the same places as on the first day. Again two colonies developed on
the plate exposed near the Crystal Spring, while the other plates were
negative. *
For the sake of comparison, and to learn whether all houses in that
vicinity contained unusually pure air, I exposed a plate in the house
of a well-to-do farmer within a mile of Limair. The house was scrupu-
lously neat and clean. The plate was exposed for one hour on a
mantle-shelf back of a heating stove in the sitting room, where five or
six people were passing in and out. In other words, the conditions
were about the same as those under which nine colonies developed after
a two-hour exposure at Limair. After 24 hours of incubation 143
colonies were visible on this one-hour plate.
In a physicians office at Luray 92 colonies were implanted in one
hour. I expected to catch more bacteria in a physicians office than
in a farm-house, and the difference may possibly be explained by the
location of a large, open fireplace opposite the door entering from the
street, thus affording a means of constant ventilation, with repeated
additions of fresh air from the outside.
Outdoor exposures were made at Limair on a clear morning fol-
lowing a day of rain and freezing temperature. The temperature was
38 degrees and a mild wind was blowing. Four plates were exposed in
the pine woods at some distance from the house, the exposures lasting
from one to two hours. Three plates each showed two colonies, while
the fourth had four colonies; of three unopened control plates one
showed one colony. To compare the air in the city, I exposed a plate
for one hour on the stone wall surrounding my back yard. The plate
was exposed at 5 p.m. on a clear, bright day, the temperature being
below freezing, and the wind blowing about twelve miles an hour.
The previous two or three days had been clear and dry. After 36
hours incubation at 85° F. 450 colonies had developed on the plate.
A plate placed on the seat beside me in a Madison Avenue car, during
