564 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Dr. Wm. C. Bailey, who is doing such excellent work with con-
sumptives at Las Vegas, N. M., informs me that the yearly average of
humidity at his altitude is 40 per cent. The average at Denver is about
50 per cent, at 70 degrees temperature. When we consider the great
and rapid changes of temperature at such favorable locations, and
think of the wide range of relative humidity experienced even in the
course of one day, we see at once that the engineer at Limair, starting
with his great caverns of air of a uniform temperature, and uniform
percentage of relative humidity, has a simple problem to solve in
keeping the sanitarium at an equable temperature, and in what is con-
sidered the normal percentage of relative humidity. Attempts are now
being made to furnish hospitals and large public buildings with these
desirable conditions of a dustless, cool air, of uniform temperature and
humidity; but while the j)roblem is theoretically possible, the outside
conditions are such as to make the undertaking one of such expense as
to be impracticable.
The practical side of this question from a therapeutic view-point
appeals to those familiar with throat and lung diseases. For hay
fever, asthma and all bronchial affections, not tuberculous, these con-
ditions are ideal, and for patients of this class have already given
excellent results. We can not imagine conditions better calculated for
the ^^reservation of infant health during the hot summer months, when
the rapid atmospheric changes of our cities play such havoc with their
powers of resistance to intestinal infections.
We now know the relatively minor role that the tubercle bacillus
plays in the destruction of the consumptive patient, and the great
advantage of placing the early tuberculous process in an air free from
dust and the secondary bacterial invaders. We know how injurious
to some patients are the climatic changes of a sea voyage, or of the
seaside resort, and how badly others react to a change of altitude. Here
we have an abundance of cool, pure air rapidly circulating in sunny
rooms easily kept at constant conditions of temperature and humidity.
Consumptives are not taken at this sanitarium, but I think it is only
a question of time when those afflicted with tuberculosis of the air pas-
sages may enjoy the benefits to be derived at Luray and other caverns
of the world by living in houses modeled after Limair.
