POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY. 53
HERTZIAN WAVE WIEELESS TELEGRAPHY. VI.
By Dr. J. A. FLEMING, F.R.S.,
PROPESSOH OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDOK.
It remains then to consider some of the questions connected with
practical Hertzian wave telegraphy and the problem of the limita-
tion of communication. These matters at the present moment very
much occupy the public attention, and many conflicting opinions are
expressed concerning them.
It may be observed at the outset that the difficulty of dealing with
the subject as freely as many desire is that Hertzian wave telegraphy is
no longer merely a subject of scientific investigation, but has developed
into a business and involves therefore other interests than the simple
advancement of scientific knowledge. We can, however, discuss in a
general manner some of the scientific problems which present them-
selves for solution. The first of these is the independence of com-
munication between stations. It is desirable, at the outset, to clear
up a little misunderstanding. There is a great difference between pre-
venting the reception of communication when it is not desired by the
recipient and preventing it when it is the object of the latter to over-
hear if he can. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between isola-
tion and overhearing. We may say that a station is isolated when it
is not affected by Hertzian waves other than those it desires to receive ;
but that a station overhears when it can, if it chooses, pick up commu-
nications not intended for it, or can not help receiving them against
its will.
This distinction is a perfectly fair one. Any telegraph or tele-
phone wire can be tapped, if it is desired, but unless there is some
fault on the line, no station will receive a message against its desires.
Moreover, it may be noted that there are penalties attaching to tapping
a telegraph wire, and at present there are none connected with the mis-
appropriation of an ether wave.
We shall therefore consider in the first place the methods so far
proposed for preventing any given receiver from being affected by
Hertzian waves sent out from other stations, except that of those from
which it is desired to receive them. The first method is that which has
been called the method of electrical syntony, and consists in adjusting
the electrical capacity and inductance of the various open and closed
