THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
567
of the presentation of a statue of
Priestley to the town of Birmingham
is printed in the issue for November,
1874. Priestleys own account of the
discovery of oxygen was reprinted in
the issue for December, 1900. To these
articles those readers may be referred
whose attention has been attracted to
Priestley by the recent commemoration.
Priestleys discoveries were of epoch-
making importance in the history of
chemistry; his radical views in politics
and theology anticipated in certain
directions the course of subsequent
thought, and his career is full of dra-
matic interest, especially to us in
America, among whom he took refuge
from persecutions at home. Yet it is
not often that one of the twenty-five
volumes containing Priestleys col-
lected works is taken down from the
shelves of the library. The vast range
of his controversial writings belongs to
the past, and his scientific work was in
a sense an episode in his life and in the
development of science. But the cour-
age with which he defended what was
then heterodoxy in religion and radi-
calism in political affairs deserves our
admiration, and the discovery of oxy-
gen will always remain a landmark in
the progress of chemistry.
At the middle of the seventeenth cen-
tury, chemistry had not yet found its
Copernicus or Newton. From our
point of view the confusion was ex-
treme. Air, water and fire were re-
garded as elementary substances. It
was supposed that when anything was
burned or when an animal breathed,
a substance called phlogiston passed
into the air and vitiated it. So when
Priestley discovered oxygen, he called
it dephlogisticated air, it being, be-
tween five or six times as good as
common air. Priestley did other work
of importance in connection with gases,
but did not appreciate the real bear-
ings of his own discoveries and can not
be placed in the same rank with Caven-
dish and Laviosier. But he will always
be remembered for one of the most im-
portant discoveries in the history of
science.
PROFESSOR EDUARD ZELLER.
It appears that in Germany, as in
England, the great men of the nine-
teenth century have scarcely bequeathed
their genius to their successors. It is
quite impossible for Berlin to fill the
places vacant by the deaths of Helm-
holtz, Virchow and Mommsen. One
man of that generation the university
still has, and it does well to do him
honor on his ninetieth birthday. Pro-
fessor Zeller does not rank with the
greatest of his contemporaries, but he
represents the highest scholarship, the
type which is in danger of submergence
beneath the flood of executive work and
business detail of modern life.
The work of Professor Zeller carries
us a long way back. Starting from
the then prevalent Hegelianism, he was
one of the first to take a decided stand
against the d priori construction of the
world, and claim that we must go back
to the epistemology of Kant and de-
velop it in the light of modern science.
But he is best known for his Phi-
losophy of the Greeks, the first volume
of which was published sixty years
ago. This work has continually been
revised for subsequent editions; it was
followed in 1872 by a history of Ger-
man philosophy since Leibnitz and by
numerous other publications, especially
on the relation of philosophy to science
and on the philosophy of religion.
CHARLES EMERSON BEEGHER.
Yale Uniyeesity lost only five years
ago its eminent paleontologist. Pro-
fessor 0. C. Marsh, and now we are
compelled to record the untimely death
of his successor. Professor C. E.
Beecher, which occurred on February
14, at the age of forty-eight years.
Beecher was graduated from the Univer-
sity of Michigan in 1878, and for ten
years was assistant to Professor James
Hall in the New York Geological Sur-
vey. In 1888 he was called to Yale Uni-
