THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
569
SCIENCE AT COLORADO COLLEGE.
The state universities of the central
and western states have developed with
remarkable rapidity, and are now be-
ginning to rival the older institutions
of the Atlantic seaboard. It is some-
times said that public support of edu-
cation interferes with private endow-
ments. But Stanford University and
the University of Chicago have been es-
tablished side by side with the state
institutions, and in each case both the
state and the private institutions are
found to help rather than to interfere
lege. It has received its name in honor
of General William J. Palmer, one of
the trustees of the institution. As
shown in the illustration, the building
has three stories; it is built of sand-
stone with modern fireproof construc-
tion. The basement contains labora-
tories for chemistry, physics and psy-
chology, the first floor, the general
offices and lecture rooms and other
laboratories for chemistry and physics,
and the second floor houses the de-
partments of biology and geology, with
the museum.
Palmer Hall, Colorado College.
with one another. In Colorado in the
same way the state university has not
in any way prevented the development
of Colorado College, and there is every
reason to suppose that these institu-
tions will continue to work togther for
the educational welfare of the state. In
all western institutions, science oc-
cupies an important if not a predom-
inant position, and of this the erection
of Palmer Hall at Colorado College is
significant.
This new building, which was dedi-
cated on February 23, contains pro-
vision for the scientific departments
and administrative offices of the col-
Nearly ten years ago Dr. D. K. Pear-
son, to whom American colleges are so
greatly indebted, offered to give $50,000
to Colorado College, on condition that
a building costing $60,000 should be
erected. This money was secured and
the building planned, but subsequently
larger plans were adopted, and the
present building cost nearly $300,-
000; $30,000 have also been secured
for equipment. The dedicatory exer-
cises were carefully planned. Presi-
dent David Starr Jordan, of Stanford
University, made the principal address,
which we hope to have the privilege of
publishing in this magazine. On the
