57°
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
preceding day addresses were made by
Dr. C. R. Van Hise, president of the
University of Wisconsin, on Colorado
as a field for scientific research; by
Dr. Samuel L. Bigelow, of the Univer-
sity of Michigan, on The growth and
function of the modern laboratory ;
by Dr. C. E. Bessey, of the University
of Nebraska, on The possibilities of the
botanical laboratory, and by Dr. Henry
Crew, of Northwestern University,
on Recent advances in the teaching of
physics. The president of the college.
Dr. William F. Slocum, said in his ad-
dress : We dedicate then to-day this
building devoted to the high purposes
which led to the founding of the col-
lege ; to the cause of learning and scien-
tific study, to the up-building of the
educational movement throughout the
state. It is an added contribution to
what other similar institutions are ac-
complishing in Colorado and through-
out our country. In all the years to
come may it help to broaden and en-
large the scope of human knowledge
and aid in bringing into this section of
the United States such a love of the
larger life of thought and accurate
study, and that new meaning will come
to many as they read over its entrance,
Ye shall know the truth and the truth
shall make you free.
THE SIZE OF FAMILIES OF COL-
LEGE GRADUATES.
The statistics on the size of families
of college graduates published last
year in this magazine by Professor
Thorndike and by Dr. Engelmann have
been considerably amplified by Presi-
dent Stanley Hall and Mr. Theodate L.
Smith, and form the subject of an
article in the last number of The Peda-
gogical Seminary. It is pointed out
that the decrease in the number of
children per wife is less than per man,
owing to the fact that the graduates
of the last century so frequently remar-
ried. The conditions for the wives of
clergymen in colonial times appear
to have been unfortunate, about forty
per cent, dying under the age of fifty.
But the authors are scarcely justified
in saying that * on this biological
blunder of estimating the increase of
population per man instead of per
woman and too narrow a study of
statistics is based much of the alarmist
outcry in regard to the future popula-
tion of the United States. As far as
the increase of the population is con-
cerned, it matters but little whether it
is due to strict monogamy or to succes-
sive polygamy.
The figures given in the paper are
substantially those with which we are
familiar. The size of family of the
married college graduate has decreased
from about four in the first part of
the last century to about two and a
half in the second half, and at the same
time the percentage of those unmarried
has increased. Great care must, how-
ever, be taken in interpreting such
statistics. For example, the members
of the class of 1883 of Yale College are
reported to have only five living chil-
dren; but we find that the report re-
lates to a period three years after
graduation. Even when the period is
as long as fifteen years the number of
children will increase by about 50 per
cent. The ominous fact stands, how-
ever, that college graduates do not now
reproduce themselves. If the figures
for Harvard College are correct, they
are exterminated with startling rapid-
ity, a hundred graduates produce only
68 boys in the next generation, and
leave only 30 great-grandsons. It
must, however, be remembered that the
conditions in the race and class from
which graduates come may be as bad.
Thus the number of children living for
every native Massachusetts woman, be-
tween the ages of forty and fifty, was,
in 1885, only 1.80.
The statistics for the women gradu-
ates are of special interest, although
they in most cases relate to such recent
classes that they are difficult to in-
terpret. They are also reported by
diverse methods and are probably not
very accurate. Thus when it is said
that of 176 children only 11 have died,
