572
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
derstand, as students are reported as
studying on the average 1.8 studies in
1891 and 3.6 studies in 1901. In
answer to a request for an explanation
of these figures, the U. S. Commissioner
of Education has kindly replied as fol-
lows:
I have your letter of recent date refer-
ring to the remarkable increase in the
numbers of students in certain studies in
the liigh schools since 1890. When this
office began to classify the statistics of
secondary schools more than fifteen years
ago it was found that many schools had
been reporting a large percentage of ele-
mentary pupils as in the high schools
when in fact they pursued no secondary
studies. It required several years to de-
vise a form of inquiry which would enable
this office to eliminate the elementary
pupils.
It is probable that in 1890 a pupil was
reported as a secondary student if he had
one or more secondary studies. Now he
must have at least two secondary studies
to be so classed. (See marked form here-
with.) Every year we are able to get a
belter classification and by insisting on
answers to question 14 (the studies pur-
sued) we are able to eliminate the ele-
mentary pupils. The classification was
not so close in 1890.
We now state in our summaries hoio
many schools reported students in certain
studies (see page 1652, report for 1902
sent under another cover). This was not
done in 1890.
The three and a half subjects studied
(the average mentioned in your letter) is
not excessive. In many schools the mini-
mum required is four subjects each year.
If the fact that students were re-
ported in 1891 as studying on the aver-
age less than two subjects was because
certain elementary pupils taking only
one study were included and if high
school students on the average pursue
four studies, it would follow that ^about
70 per cent, of all students reported
in the high schools were elementary
students. This was of course not the
case, and with the data at hand we can
only conclude that in 1891 the studies
pursued by many students were not re-
ported, and that we do not know what
percentage of students studied Latin
at that time. It may have been 60 per
cent. The percentage of students
studying Latin has probably decreased,
because relatively more students are
now prepared for the college scientific
course than for the classical course,
while at the same time the percentage
of graduates entering college has de-
creased. The percentage reported as
studying Latin has decreased since
1898 when the figures may be assumed
to have become more accurate.
The decrease in the number of stu-
dents studying physics and chemistry
is not, however, so easily explained
away. It may be that in 1891 ele-
mentary students taking physics or
chemistry were reported, whereas but
few elementary students would take
Latin. The percentage of girls has
increased, and this would favor liter-
ary as compared with scientific studies.
The figures for zoology and botany are
not given, and in the increase of the
number of studies open to secondary
students, there would naturally be a de-
crease in the number studying each
subject. Still there is reason to be-
lieve that physics and chemistry as
taught in the high school and college
are not attractive to students. Indeed,
we have grounds for fear that the high
school course as a whole is not as use-
ful as it should be, especially for boys.
The figures given in the table show that
42.49 per cent, of secondary students
are boys, whereas the boys graduating
from the high school are only 34 per
cent, of the total number. Only about
20 per cent, of students — boys and
girls — entering the high school stay to
graduate, and in Boston only 10 per
cent, of the boys who enter the high
school remain as long as the fourth
year.
