54 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
circuits of the receiving and transmitting stations to be put in com-
munication so that they have the same electrical time-period.*
In the Cantor Lectures before the Society of Arts in 1900, on elec-
trical oscillations and electric waves, the author has discussed at length
the conditions under which powerful electrical oscillations can be set
up in a circuit. It was there shown that every electric circuit having
capacity and inductance has a particular or natural time-period of elec-
trical oscillation depending on the product of these qualities, and that,
to accumulate powerful electrical oscillations in it, the electromotive
impulses on it must be delivered at this rate. Illustrations were draWTi
from mechanics, such as the examples furnished by vibrating pendu-
lums and springs, and from acoustics, as illustrated by the phenomena
of resonance, to show that small or feeble blows or impulses delivered
at the proper time intervals have a cumulative effect in setting up
vibrations in a body capable of oscillation. It is a familiar fact that
if we time our blows, we can achieve that which no single blow, how-
ever powerful, can accomplish in throwing into vibration a body such
as a pendulum, which is capable of oscillation under the action of a
restoring force. Precisely the same is true of an electric circuit. We
have already seen that the receiving aerial has an alternating electro-
motive force set up in it by the impact of the successive electric waves
sent out from the transmitter. It must, however, be remembered that
the transmitter sends out a series of trains of waves, not by any means
a continuous train, but one cut up into groups of probably ten to fifty
waves, each separated by intervals of silence, long, compared with the
duration of a single train of waves.
If, however, by a suitable adjustment of capacity and inductance,
we make the natural time-period of oscillation of the receiving aerial
circuits agree with those of the transmitting aerial, within certain
limits the former will only be receptive for waves of the frequency sent
out by the transmitter. It is quite easy to illustrate this principle by
numerous experiments. It can be done by means of an apparatus de-
vised by Dr. Georg Seibt for showing in an interesting manner the syn-
tonization or tuning of two electric circuits. This consists of two bob-
bins, each consisting of one layer of insulated wire wound on a wooden
rod (see Fig. 22). Each of these bobbins has a certain electrical capacity
with respect to the earth, when considered as an insulated conductor, and
it has also a certain inductance. If therefore electromotive impulses
are applied to one end of the bobbin at regular intervals, electrical
oscillations will be set up in it, and, as already explained, if these are
* The capacity of an electrical circuit corresponds to the elastic plia-
bility, or what is commonly called the elasticity, of a material substance,
and the inductance to mass or inertia. Hence capacity and inductance are
qualities of an electric circuit which are analogous to the elasticity and
inertia of such a body as a heavy spring.
