HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
55
Wf
V ;
w
timed at a certain rate, the bobbin will act like a closed organ pipe to
air impulses and oscillations of potential will be accumulated at the
opposite end, which have much greater amplitude than the impressed
oscillations at the end at which they are applied. We can make the
existence of the amplitude oscillations of potential evident by attaching
to one end of the bobbin a vacuum tube, which will be illuminated there-
by, or by terminating it by a pointed piece of
wire, so that an electrical brush can be formed
at the point, if the potential variations have
sufficient amplitude. We arrange also another
closed oscillation circuit consisting of two
Ley den jars and a variable inductance coil
and a pair of spark balls which are connected
ito an induction coil. In this manner we can
set up oscillations in the discharge circuit of
these Leyden jars, and we can vary the time
period by altering the inductance and the
capacity. If we denote the capacity of the
jars in the microfarads by the letter C and the
inductance in centimeters of the discharge circuit of the jars by the
letter L, it can then be shown that the number of oscillations per
second denoted by n is given by the expression :*
TcT-rc
Fig. 22. Seibts Appa-
ratus FOE Exhibiting Elec-
tric Resonance. I, induc-
tion coil ; S, spark gap ; CC,
condensers; L, variable in-
ductance; E, earth plate ; W W,
wire spirals ; W, vacuum
tubes.
n =
5, 000,000
VCL
If now we adjust the Leyden jar circuit to a particular rate of oscilla-
tion, we have between the terminals of the jar or condenser an alter^f
nating difference of potential or electromotive force. If we connect
one side of the jars to the earth and the other side to the foot of one
of the spirals or bobbins above described, we shall find perhaps that the
vacuum tube at the other end is not rendered luminous. When, how-
ever, we adjust the inductance in the discharge circuit of the jar to a
certain value to make the frequency of the condenser oscillations agree
with the natural time period of the bobbin terminated by the vacuum
tube, this latter at once lights up brilliantly. Again, if we connect
both these bobbins at the same time to the discharge circuit of the
Leyden jar, we shall find that we can make an adjustment of the in-
ductance of that circuit, such that either of the bobbins at pleasure can
be made to respond and be set in electrical vibration, as shown by the
illumination of the vacuum tube at its upper end or by an electrical
* See Cantor Lectures, on Electrical Oscillations and Electric Waves,
delivered before the Society of Arts, London, November 26, December 4, 10,
17, 1900. Lecture I., page 12, of reprint.
^
