56 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
brush being formed at the terminal. In making this adjustment of
inductance, we are tuning, as it is called, the Ley den jar discharge cir-
cuit to the resonating bobbin. A very small variation of the inductance
of the jar circuit causes the vacuum tube to change in luminosity. If,
however, the natural time periods of these bobbins do not lie very far
apart, then a faint luminosity will make its appearance in both the
vacuum tubes. Supposing therefore that we connect to the oscillating
circuit of the jar a number of bobbins having different time-periods of
oscillation, like organ-pipes, and supply them all with one common
alternating electromotive force. Those bobbins whose natural time-
period is very different to that of the oscillating circuit or impressed
electromotive force will not respond, but those bobbins of which the
natural time-period lies near to, even if not quite exactly the same as,
that of the impressed electromotive force will give evidence of being
set in oscillation. A very violent electromotive force will cause them
all to respond to some slight extent, no matter whether the period of
that impulse is tuned to their common period precisely or not.
At this point questions arise of great practical importance. A
matter which has been in dispute in connection with practical Hertzian
wave telegraphy is how far this electrical tuning is a sufficient solution
of the practical problem of isolation. It is not denied that experiments
such as those made with Seibts apparatus can be shown on a small
scale; and, on a still larger scale, Mr. Marconi gave to the author in
September, 1900, a demonstration in practical telegraphic work of
sending two independent Hertzian wave messages and receiving
them on two independent receivers attached to the same aerial.
Since that date much experience has been gained and large power
stations erected, and a statement has been frequently made that syntony
is no protection against interference when one of the stations is sending
out very powerful waves. The contention has been raised that large
power stations producing electric waves will therefore play havoc with
Hertzian wave telegraphy on a smaller scale, such as the ship to shore
and intermarine communication. Under these circumstances, it ap-
peared to the author important to subject the matter to a special test,
and Mr. Marconi therefore offered to give a demonstration, with this
object, in support of the opinion that he has expressed positively that
waves from his power stations do not interfere with the working of
his ship installations. This matter is vital to the whole question of
practical Hertzian wave telegraphy, for the ship to shore communica-
tion is of stupendous importance ; and if Mr. Marconi had done nothing
else except render this possible and effective, he would have earned, as
he has done, the gratitude of humanity for all time. Accordingly, the
author embraced the opportunity of making some careful tests to settle
the question, whether the powerful waves sent out from a station such
as Poldhu did or did not affect the exchange of messages between ship
