HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 57
and shore stations in proximity, equipped with Marconi apparatus of
a suitable type.
These experiments were carried out on the eighteenth of March last,
at Poldhu, in Cornwall, and a program was arranged by the author of
the following kind. Close to the Poldhu station is an isolated mast,
which was equipped by Mr. Marconi with a Hertzian wave apparatus,
similar to that he places on ships. Six miles from Poldhu is the Lizard
receiving station, with which ships proceeding up or down the English
Channel communicate. It was arranged that a series of secret mes-
sages, some of them in cipher, should be delivered simultaneously at
certain known times, both to the power station at Poldhu and to the
small adjacent ship station; and it was arranged that these messages
should be sent off simultaneously, the operators being kept in ignorance
up to the moment of sending as to the nature of the messages. At the
Lizard, Mr. Marconi connected two of his receiving instruments to the
aerial, one of them tuned to the waves proceeding from the power sta-
tion at Poldhu, and the other to those proceeding from the small
ship station. At the appointed time, these two sets of messages were
received simultaneously in the presence of the author, each message
being printed down independently on its own receiver; and Mr. Mar-
coni read off and interpreted all these messages perfectly correctly, not
having known before what was the message that was about to be sent.
In addition to this, precautions were taken to prove that the power
station at Poldhu was really emitting waves sufficiently powerful to
cross the Atlantic and not being made to sing small for the occasion.
To assist in proving this, the messages sent out from the power station
were also received at a station at Poole, two hundred miles away, and
the assistant there was instructed to telegraph back these messages by
wire as soon as he received them. These messages came back perfectly
correctly, thus demonstrating that the power station was sending out
power waves. The whole program was carried out with the greatest
care to avoid any mistakes on the part of the assistants, and provided
an absolute demonstration of the truth of Mr. Marconis assertion that
the waves from one of his power stations, such as Poldhu, do not ia
the least degree interfere with the transmission and reception of mes-
sages between ship and shore, effected by means of certain forms of
Marconi apparatus for producing and detecting waves of a different
wave length.* This complete independence of transmission, however, is
entirely due to the employment of a receiving circuit of a certain type
in Mr. Marconis receivers. It does not at all follow that receiving
circuit of any kind, even a Marconi receiver not especially arranged,
set up in proximity to a power station would not be affected. This,
* A fuller account of these experiments was given by the author in a
letter to the London Times published on April 14, 1903.
