S8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
however, is not an important matter. Far more important is it to
show, as has been shown, that practically perfect isolation can be
achieved if it is desired.
It must be noted, however, that, although the fact that electric cir-
cuits have a natural time-period of oscillation of their own is a scientific
principle which carries us a considerable way towards a solution of
what is called syntonic Hertzian wave telegraphy, it is not in itself
alone in every respect an entire solution of the practical problem. The
degree to which it is a solution depends to a considerable extent upon
the nature of the detecting device, or kumascope, which we are employ-
ing. The coherer, or Branly filings tube, has the peculiarity that its
passage from a nonconductive to a conductive condition follows imme-
diately when the difference of potential between its ends is made suffi-
ciently great. In other words, if the tube is acted upon by a sufficient
electromotive force, it is not necessary that electromotive force shoidd
be repeated at intervals to make this particular form of kumascope
responsive. Again, if we consider the nature of the oscillations which
are sent out from any transmitting aerial, we find that each group of
oscillations corresponding to a single spark consists of waves gradually
decreasing in amplitude. In other words, the first wave of the group
iii the strongest, and the decay in amplitude is often very rapid.
Supposing, then, we construct a simple receiver consisting of an aerial
having inserted in its circuit a sensitive Branly filings tube. Such a
receiver is almost entirely non-syntonic ; that is to say, it is affected
by any wave passing over it which is sufficiently powerful. We may
look upon it that if the first wave of the series is sufficiently powerful
to affect the kumascope, the conductive change takes place whether or
not the first wave is followed by others. Accordingly, it is perfectly
certain that if a transmitter is sending out trains of waves of any
period, a simple combination of coherer and aerial will be infiuenced, if
it is placed near enough to the transmitter. On the other hand, it is
possible to combine a kumascope of a certain type with a receiving
aerial and other circuits in such a manner that when the waves that
reach it are feeble it shall not respond at all unless those waves have
very nearly a time period of a certain value.
At this stage, it may be perhaps well to explain a little in detail
what is meant by an easily responsive circuit, and, on the other hand,
by an irresponsive circuit, or, as we may call it, a stiff circuit. Sup-
posing that we consider an aerial consisting of a simple straight wire
having small capacity and small inductance, such a circuit admits of
being sent into electrical oscillation, not only by waves of its own natu-
ral time-period, but by the sudden application of any violent electro-
motive impulse. If, on the other hand, we bestow upon the circuit in
any way considerable inductance, we then obtain what may be called a
stiff or irresponsive circuit, which is one in which electrical oscillations
