6o
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the second terminal of which is connected to the earth. The secondary
circuit of this last oscillation transformer is cut in the middle and is
connected to the terminals of a small condenser. The outer terminals
of this secondary circuit are connected to the metallic filings tube or
other sensitive receiver and to a small condenser in parallel with it (see
Fig. 23). The terminals of the condenser which is inserted in the mid-
H
I -OPPtt— I
B
R
Fig. 23. Marconi Tkansmittee and Receiver. I, induction coil ; A, aerial ; E, earth
plate ; HH, choking coils ; S, spark gap ; J, transmitting jigger ; K, receiving jigger ; R, relay
C, condenser; F, filings tube; B, battery. Many practical details are omitted.
die of the secondary circuit of the oscillation transformer are connected
through two small inductance coils with a relay and a single cell.
This relay in turn actuates a Morse printer by means of a local bat-
tery. The two circuits of the oscillation transformer are tuned or
syntonized to one another, and also to the similar circuit of the trans-
mitting arrangement. When this is the case, the transmitter affects
the coresonant receiving arrangement, but will not affect any other
similar arrangement, unless it is within a certain minimum range of
distance. Owing to the inductance of the oscillation transformer
forming part of the receiving arrangements, the receiving circuit is, as
before stated, very stiff or irresponsive; the sensitive tube is therefore
not acted upon in virtue merely of the impact of the single wave against
the aerial, but it needs repeated or accumulated effects of a great many
waves, coming in proper time, to break down the coherer and cause the
recording mechanism to act. An inspection of the diagram will show
that as soon as the secondary electromotive force in the small oscillation
transformer or jigger of the receiving instrument is of sufficient ampli-
tude to break down the resistance of the coherer, the local cell in circuit
with the relay can send a current through it and cause the relay to act
and in turn make the associated telegraphic instrument record or sound.
Mr. Marconi described in the above-mentioned paper some other ar-
rangements for achieving the same result, but those mentioned all de-
pend for their operation upon the construction of a receiving circuit on
which the time-period of electrical oscillations is identical with that of
a transmitting arrangement. By this means he showed experiments
during the reading of his paper, illustrating the fact that two pairs of
transmitting and receiving arrangements could be so syntonized that
