HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
6i
each receiver responded only to its particular transmitter and not to the
other.
With arrangements of substantially the same nature, he made ex-
periments in the autumn of 1900 between Niton, in the Isle of Wight,
near Bournemouth, a distance of about thirty miles, in which inde-
pendent messages were sent and received on the same aerial.
Dr. Slaby and Count von Arco, working in Germany, have followed
very much on the same lines as Mr. Marconi, though with appliances
of a somewhat different nature. As constructed by the General Elec-
tric Company, of Berlin, the Slaby- Arco syntonic system of Hertzian
telegraphy is arranged in one form as follows: The transmitter con-
sists of a vertical rod like a lightning conductor, say 100 or 150 feet in
height. At a point six or nine feet above the ground, a connection is
a.
tf
)0
s
B, R
M
-/2j?jZJ^-i^nzn)L
m
Fig. 24. Slaby-Arco Syntonic Transmitter and Reckivkr. J, induction coil ; M, multi-
plier ; B, battery ; A, aerial ; F, filings tube ; R, relay ; E, earthplate ; C, condenser.
made to a spark ball (see Fig. 24), and the corresponding ball is con-
nected through a variable inductance with one terminal of a condenser,
the other terminal of which is connected to the earth. The two spark
balls are connected to an induction coil, or alternating current trans-
former, and by variation of the inductance and capacity the frequency
is so arranged that the wave-length corresponding to it is equal to four
times the length of that portion of the aerial which is above the spark
ball connection. The method by which this tuning is achieved is to
insert in the portion of the aerial below the spark balls, between it and
the earth, a hot wire ammeter of some form. It has already been
shown that in the case of such an earthed aerial, when electrical oscil-
lations are set up in it, there is a potential node at the earth and a po-
tential antinode or loop at the summit, if it is vibrating in its funda-
mental manner; also, there is a node of current at the summit of the
aerial and an antinode at the base. This amounts to saying that the
amplitude of the potential vibrations is greatest at the top end of the
aerial, and the amplitude of the current vibrations is greatest at the
bottom or earthed end. Accordingly, the inductance and capacity of
the lateral branch of the transmitter is altered until the hot wire am-
meter in the base of the aerial shows the largest possible current.
The corresponding receiver is constructed in a very similar manner.
