HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
63
messages at the same time on the same aerial. Subsequently to the date
of the above-mentioned demonstration of multiplex wireless telegraphy
by Mr. Marconi, an exhibition of a similar nature was given by Pro-
fessor Slaby in a lecture given in Berlin on December 22, 1900.*
Both the above described syntonic systems of Mr. Marconi and Dr.
Slaby are earthed systems, but arrangements for syntonic telegraphy
have been devised by Sir Oliver Lodge and Professor Braun, which are
non-earthed.
Sir Oliver Lodge and Dr. Muirhead have devised also syntonic sys-
tems. According to their last methods, the syntonic transmitting and
receiving arrangements are as shown in Fig. 25. f On examining the
Tz=r
C
L.
C
B-
c
I ouoas.(iV(i
R
-q:
3E
m
Fig. 25. LoDGE-MuiRHEAD Syntonic Receiver. I, induction coil; S, spark gap; A,
aerial; C, C , condensers ; JS, eartli plate; iJ, relay; i, variable inductance; i^, filings tube;
B, battery.
diagrams, it will be seen that the secondary terminals of the induction
coil are, as usual, connected to a pair of spark balls, and that these
spark balls are connected by a condenser and by a variable inductance.
One terminal of the condenser is earthed through another condenser
of large capacity, and the remaining terminal of the first condenser is
connected to an aerial. It should therefore be borne in mind in deal-
ing with electrical oscillations that a condenser of sufficient capacity
is practically a conductor, and an inductance coil of sufficient induct-
ance is practically a non-conductor. Hence the insertion of a large
capacity in the path of the aerial wire is no advantage whatever and
makes no essential difference in the arrangement. In order to obtain
any powerful radiation, the length of the aerial or sky wire, as they
call it, must be so adjusted that its length is one quarter the wave
length corresponding to the oscillation circuit, consisting of the con-
denser and variable inductance.
The receiving arrangement consists of a similar sky wire or aerial
earthed through a condenser of large capacity and having in the portion
above this last condenser another condenser of similar capacity. At
the earthed side of this last condenser a connection is made to a reso-
nant circuit, consisting of a variable inductance, and another con-
* See Electrician, January 18, 1900, Vol. XL VI., p. 475. Also reprint of
a paper of Professor A. Slaby, * Abgestimmte und mehrfache Funkentelegraphie.
t See British Specification, No. 11,348 of 1901.
