HERTZIAN WAVE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 65
syntonization of two stations, not by syntonizing the receiver for the
exceedingly high frequency oscillations of the individual electric waves,
but to syntonize it for the much lower frequency, corresponding to that
of the intervals between the groups of waves. Thus, for instance, if
an ordinary simple transmitting aerial is set up, the production of
sparks between the spark balls results in the emission of short trains
of waves, each of which may consist of half a dozen or more individual
waves, the time of production of the whole group being very small
compared with the interval between the groups. M. Blondel pro-
poses, however, to syntonize the receiver, not for the high frequency
period of the waves themselves, which may be reckoned in millions
per second, but for the low frequency period between the groups of
waves, which is reckoned in hundreds per second. Thus, for instance,
if sparks are made at the rate of fifty or a hundred per second, they
can be made to actuate the telephone receiver and so produce in the
telephone a sound corresponding to a frequency of 50 or 100. In other
words, to make a low musical note or hmn. This continuous sound
can be cut up, by means of a key placed in the primary circuit of the
transmitting arrangement, into long or short periods, and hence the
letters of the alphabet signal.
M. Blondels arrangements comprise a Mercadiers monotone tele-
phone and either a coherer or a particular form of vacuum tube as a
kumascope. On August 16, 1898, M. Blondel deposited with the Acad-
emy of Sciences in Paris a sealed envelope containing a description of
his improvements in syntonic wireless telegraphy, which was opened
on May 19, 1900.* The arrangement of the receiving apparatus was
as follows: A single battery cell keeps a condenser charged until
the kumascope is rendered conductive by the oscillations coming down
the aerial; and under these circumstances the condenser discharges
through the telephone and causes a tick to be heard in it. If the trains
of waves are at the rate of 50 or 100 per second, these small sounds run
together into a musical note, and this continuous hum can be cut up
into long and short spaces, in accordance with the Morse alphabet
signals. The telephone must not be an ordinary telephone, capable
of being influenced by any frequency, but be one which responds only
to a particular note, and under these conditions the receiving arrange-
ment is receptive only when the trains of waves arrive at certain
regular predetermined intervals, corresponding with the tone to which
the telephone is sensitive.
* See Comptes Rendus, May 21, 1900; Rapports du Congres International
dElectriciti, Paris, 1900, p. 341.
VOL. liXIV. — 5.
