RUSSIAN IMMIGRATION. 67
of Livonia. German artisans were imported and enjoyed the favor
of the Great Peter, and German farmers took advantage of the break-
ing up of the large Polish estates after the insurrection of 1863 to
establish themselves upon much of the best farming land in Poland.
But none of these different divisions of the German race in Eussia
concerns us in our consideration of the Eussian-German immigrant.
He has a history entirely his own and has no more connection with
other isolated colonies of Germans in Eussia than he has with the
Eussian, from whom he holds himself religiously aloof.
Anne, daughter of Peter the Great, married the Duke of Holstein
Gottorp, a German prince, and their son, who was crowned Peter III.,
was thus half German. Peter III. married a German princess, Sophia,
of Anhalt Zerbst, who later deposed him and became sole ruler of
the country, taking the name of Catherine II. The Ukraine, or coun-
try north of the Black Sea, which was the most fertile part of Eussia,
had never been consistently cultivated. This magnificent black mold
belt, one of the finest wheat-raising regions in the world, could only
be kept from the Tartar hordes by the employment of the Cossacks
as a protection. The Cossacks effectually prevented further Tartar
raids, but were not farmers; and to develop this fine country Cather-
ine offered special inducements to German settlers.
These inducements included the use of their own schools and the
practise of their own religion, exemption from military service and
some other special privileges. Many Germans took advantage of their
countrywomans liberal offer. As a result there are to-day in southern
Eussia in the governments immediately north of the Black Sea thou-
sands of Germans who speak only German, who are in religion Luther-
ans and who are by far the most prosperous agricultural class in Eussia.
The present Tsar has withdrawn the privileges granted by the
Empress Catherine, has sought to replace the German schools by Eus-
sian, and the Lutheran religion by the Greek orthodox church; but
he has only succeeded in exiling from Eussia thousands of these Ger-
man farmers, who come as immigrants to America with the proceeds
of their Eussian farms in their pockets and the courage of the pioneer
in their hearts.
The Finns.
The Finns belong to the Ugro-Finnic or Uralo-Altaic stock and
are akin to the Magyar and Laplander. About a dozen different
tribes of this Ugro-Finnic stock are recognized; they are scattered
over northern and central Eussia and Siberia.
It must be remembered that the classification of Finnic peoples
is made from a philological view-point, without regard to the influence
great or slight which surrounding races may have exerted on the racial
type. Otherwise it would often be hard to believe that the Finnish
immigrant was of the same race as the Lapp, Magyar or Volga Finn.
