68 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Finns are said to have lived on the Volga in the seventh century
and to have been driven north in the eighth century to their present
home. They were conquered and christianized in the twelfth century
by the Swedes, who occupied and ruled the country for more than five
hundred years. In the wars between Sweden and Eussia, Finland
was often the battleground, and finally by treaty in 1809 Sweden ceded
the grand duchy of Finland to Eussia.
The Finnish constitution of 1772 afforded ample protection to the
liberties of the people. It insured practical autonomy in internal
affairs and provided that the Finnish army could not be required to
serve outside of Finland. Alexander I. guaranteed to Finland the
preservation of its laws, constitution and religion, and this pledge has
been renewed by each succeeding ruler, including the present Tsar,
Nicholas II., who however has broken his pledge. The condition of
the Finns under their own constitution has been much better than
that of any other subjects of the Tsar. Serfdom never existed in their
country and five ninths of the land was owned by peasants. The
policy of Eussianization pursued by Tsar Nicholas II. since 1898 has
practically set aside the constitution and reduced the grand duchy of
Finland to the status of an ordinary Eussian province.
Since 1863 Eussia has attempted to eliminate Swedish influence
by fostering the growth of the native language and literature. Now,
however, the Finnish language is placed under the ban and the re-
moval of high officials of Finlands educational system and the sub-
stitution of Eussians in their places at Helsingfors and other educa-
tional centers may be considered an indication of the coming suppres-
sion of the Finnish language in the schools.
The majority of our Finnish immigrants come from near the
coast, and in this locality the Swedish influence upon the people is
shown most markedly by the frequent great variation from the recog-
nized Finnish type. It is difficult in some cases to differentiate them
from the Swedes and it is rare to find among these immigrants the
broad head, flat features, yellow skin, obliquely set eyes, or other
characteristics of the Ugro-Finnic type. They are tall and well pro-
portioned, sometimes with fair complexions, sometimes with a queer
combination of the characteristics of Finn and Swede. Eighty per
cent, of the Finns are engaged in agricultural pursuits. They are
honest, industrious and energetic; and it is a very rare occurrence to
find an illiterate Finn.
Lithuanians.
The Lithuanian people, according to their traditions and the re-
searches of some eminent ethnologists, were probably the first of the
Aryan race to settle in Europe. Their first European home seems to
have been in the valley of the Danube in the country now known as
Bulgaria. The valley of the Danube was the natural highway of in-
