RUSSIAN IMMIGRATION. 69
vasion used by the fierce Asiatic tribes in their incursions westward.
Wars of the Eomans against the Dacians and successive invasions of
Goth and Hun forced the Lithuanians to seek a new home out of the
path of invasion and conflict.
They migrated northward, probably during the third and fourth
centuries, and following the valley of the Vistula spread out over ter-
ritory extending from the mouth of the Vistula to the shore of Lake
Peipus and southward to the great marshes of Pinsk. Their early
history is necessarily hazy, depending upon tradition and scientific
deduction. From the tenth century their history is fairly clear and
about this time we find the Lithuanian nation divided into three main
branches, viz., Borussians, Letts and Samoghitians.
The Borussians, who occupied territory in the vicinity of Konigs-
berg, East Prussia, soon fell under German influence and lost their
political existence, leaving only their name corrupted into Prussia.
The Letts occupied the country now known as the Baltic provinces
of Eussia. They mixed with and dominated the Livs and Esths (Fin-
nish tribes occupying Livonia and Esthonia) and with these tribes
became subject to a German religious order with a military organiza-
tion known as the Sword Brothers of Livonia.
The Samoghitians, or Lithuanians proper, occupied territory south
of the Baltic provinces. There they formed an independent state and
resisted successfully all efforts of German crusader, Slav and Tartar
to subjugate them. In the fourteenth century the king of Lithuania
ruled the country occupied to-day by Poles, Lithuanians and white
Eussians. In 1386 Yagello, king of Lithuania, married Yadviga,
queen of Poland, was baptized into the Latin church and crowned
king of Poland. Lithuania during this reign reached the zenith of
her power and extended her dominions to the Eiver Moskwa on the
east and to the Black Sea on the south. The union with Poland was
nominal at this time, but a real union took place in 1569 when, by
the treaty of Lublin, Lithuania ceased to exist politically. From that
time to the present the history of Lithuania has been that of Poland.
The absorption of the Livs and other Finnish elements by the
Letts has made that branch of the Lithuanian race more or less of a
mixed type. The Borussians, or Lithuanians of Prussia, rarely emigrate.
The uninviting nature of the country occupied by the Samo-
ghitians or Lithuanians proper and its inaccessibility, owing to vast
tracts of marsh and forest land, helped to preserve the racial charac-
teristics, and the Samoghitian is to-day a distinct type bearing no
resemblance to surrounding races. A typical Lithuanian has the
features of a Greek and the complexion of a Norseman. They are fCl^^
tall and splendidly proportioned, towering over their Slavic neighbors./ \
The stature and fine physique of the Eussian Imperial Guard are due*
to the fact that it is recruited almost entirely in the Lithuanian prov-
