70 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
inces. Their fair complexion, long face and clear-cut features make
them readily distinguishable from the Slavs, whose squat figures and
wide faces are accentuated by the contrast. Their language is very old
and primitive and is said to resemble Sanskrit so closely that Lithu-
anian peasants can understand Sanskrit phrases. Their written liter-
ature is very scanty, but their unwritten popular folk-lore is rich in
idyllic and lyric songs and poetry of a pastoral variety and melancholy
tone. They are very proud of their ancestry and resent being con-
sidered Slavs. They claim with pride that most of Polands great
men, Kosciusko, Chodkiewicz, Sienkewicz and others were Lithuanians.
Their occupation is agriculture. The land owners have always been
Polish or German and business is carried on by Jews and Germans.
Few words are necessary to convince one of the desirability of the
Eussian-German. He has the industry, thrift and sterling honesty
that have made his brother Germans from the Fatherland welcome
and successful in this country. He is a picturesque figure clad in
sheepskin garments, which add to his appearance of splendid physique.
He represents the best type of the agricultural immigrant who comes
here to make a home in the far west with the necessary money in his
pocket to buy land and give him his start.
The Finns are also an agricultural or pastoral people, and if they
possess less money than the Russian-Germans their sturdy physique
and willingness to work make their success certain in this country.
They work on farms in the northern central states and have been valu-
able as laborers in the development of the mines of northern Michigan
and Wisconsin. The ability of the Finns to withstand the rigors of
a northern climate, and their well-known thrift and industry, have
suggested the possibility of their being valuable in the agricultural
and mining development of Alaska. A colony of Finns in Canada
has been very successful in wheat raising on the shores of Great Slave
Lake, a latitude once considered scarcelv habitable for white men.
The Lithuanians are also agricultural or pastoral in occupation,
but in this country are largely employed as laborers in the mines of
Pennsylvania and other mining states. Their rugged physique fits
them for this rough work, and so long as the industrial demand for
unskilled labor keeps up so long will the Lithuanian be valuable as
the best type of this class of immigrants.
A careful study of the statistics of immigration and of economic
and social conditions in this country/ will convince any one that there
is little to fear from such races as the Eussian-German, Finn and
Lithuanian properly inspected under our present laws ; and that future
legislation aiming to cut down the number of undesirable immigrants
must be directed toward debarring the competitive and parasitic classes
which now crowd our great cities.
