BRAIN-POWER AND HISTORY. 71
THE INFLUENCE OF BRAIN-POWER ON HISTORY.
By Sir NORMAN LOCKYER,
BOYAL COLLEGE OF SCIENCE.
SOME years ago, in discussing the relations of scientific instruction
to our industries, Huxley pointed out that we were in presence
of a new struggle for existence, a struggle which, once commenced
must go on until only the fittest survives.
It is a struggle between organized species — nations — not between
individuals or any class of individuals. It is, moreover, a struggle
in which science and brains take the place of swords and sinews, on
which depended the result of those conflicts which, up to the present,
have determined the history and fate of nations. The school, the uni-
versity, the laboratory and the workshop are the battlefields of this
new warfare.
But it is evident that if this, or anything like it, be true, our indus-
tries can not be involved alone; the scientific spirit, brain-power, must
not be limited to the workshop if other nations utilize it in all branches
of their administration and executive.
It is a question of an important change of front. It is a question of
finding a new basis of stability for the Empire in face of new condi-
tions. I am certain that those familiar with the present states of
things will acknowledge that the Prince of Waless call, Wake up,
applies quite as much to the members of the government as it does
to the leaders of industry.
What is wanted is a complete organization of the resources of the
nation, so as to enable it best to face all the new problems which the
progress of science, combined with the ebb and flow of population
and other factors in international competition, are ever bringing before
us. Every minister, every public department, is involved, and this
being so, it is the duty of the whole nation — king, lords and commons —
to do what is necessary to place our scientific institutions on a proper
footing in order to enable us to face the music whatever the future
may bring. The idea that science is useful only to our industries
comes from want of thought. If any one is under the impression that
Britain is only suffering at present from the want of the scientific
spirit among our industrial classes, and that those employed in the
state service possess adequate brain-power and grip of the conditions
* From the address of the president of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science, Southport, 1903.
