7 2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the modern world into which science so largely enters, let him read
the report of the Eoyal Commission on the War in South Africa. There
he will see how the whole system employed was, in Sir Henry
Brackenbury s words applied to a part of it, unsuited to tl},e require-
ments of an Army which is maintained to enable lis to make war.*
Let him read also, in the address of the president of the Society
of Chemical Industry, what drastic steps had to be taken by Chambers
of Commerce and a quarter of a million of working men to get the
Patent Law Amendment Act into proper shape, in spite of all the
advisers and officials of the Board of Trade. Very few people realize
the immense number of scientific problems the solution of which is
required for the state service. The nation itself is a gigantic work-
shop, and the more our rulers and legislators, administrators and
executive officers possess the scientific spirit, the more the rule of
thumb is replaced in the state service by scientific methods, the more
able shall we be, thus armed at all points, to compete successfully with
other countries along all lines of national as well as of commercial
activity.
It is obvious that the power of a nation for war, in men and arms
and ships, is one thing; its power in the peace struggles to which I
have referred is another; in the latter, the source and standard of
national efficiency are entirely changed. To meet war conditions, there
must be equality or superiority in battleships and army corps. To meet
the new peace conditions there must be equality or superiority in
universities, scientific organizations and everything which conduces to
greater brain-power.
The present condition of the nation, so far as its industries are
concerned, is as well known, not only to the Prime Minister, but to
other political leaders in and out of the Cabinet, as it is to you and
to me. Let me refer to two speeches delivered by Lord Eosebery and
Mr. Chamberlain on two successive days in January, 1901 :
Lord Eosebery spoke as follows :
, . . The war I regard with apprehension is the war of trade which is
unmistakably upon us. . . . When I look round me I cannot blind my eyes
to the fact that so far as we can predict anything of the twentieth century on
which we have now entered, it is that it will be one of acutest international
conflict in point of trade. We were the first nation of the modern world to
discover that trade was an absolute necessity. For that we were nicknamed
a nation of shopkeepers; but now every nation wishes to be a nation of shop-
keepers, too, and I am bound to say that when we look at the character of some
of these nations, and when we look at the intelligence of their preparations,
we may well feel that it behooves us not to fear, but to gird up our loins in prep-
aration for what is before us.
Mr. Chamberlains views were stated in the following words :
I do not think it is necessary for me to say anything as to the urgency
and necessity of scientific training. ... It is not too much to say that the
