BRAIN-POWER AND HISTORY. 73
existence of this country, as the great commercial nation, depends upon it.
... It depends very much upon what we are doing now, at the beginning of
the twentieth century, whether at its end we shall continue to maintain our
supremacy or even equality with our great commercial and manufacturing
rivals.
All this refers to our industries. We are not suffering because
trade no longer follows the flag as in the old days, but because
trade follows the brains, and our manufacturers are too apt to be
careless in securing them. In one chemical establishment in Ger-
many, 400 doctors of science, the best the universities there can turn
out, have been employed at different times in late years. In the
United States the most successful students in the higher teaching
centers are snapped up the moment they have finished their course of
training, and put into charge of large concerns, so that the idea has got
abroad that youth is the password of success in American industry.
It has been forgotten that the latest product of the highest scientific
education must necessarily be young, and that it is the training and
not the age which determines his employment. In Britain, on the
other hand, apprentices who can pay high premiums are too often pre-
ferred to those who are well educated, and the old rule-of-thumb
processes are preferred to new developments — a conservatism too often
depending upon the master s own want of knowledge.
I should not be doing my duty if I did not point out that the defeat
of our industries one after another, concerning which both Lord Kose-
bery and Mr. Chamberlain express their anxiety, is by no means the
only thing we have to consider. The matter is not one which concerns
our industrial classes only, for knowledge must be pursued for its own
sake, and since the full life of a nation with a constantly increasing
complexity, not only of industrial, but of high national aims, depends
upon the universal presence of the scientific spirit — in other words, brain
power — our whole national life is involved.
The present awakening in relation to the nations real needs is
largely due to the warnings of men of science. But Mr. Balfours
terrible Manchester picture of our present educational condition *
shows that the warning which has been going on now for more than
fiifty years has not been forcible enough; but if my contention that
other reorganizations besides that of our education are needed is well
founded, and if men of science are to act the part of good citizens in
taking their share in endeavoring to bring about a better state of
things, the question arises, has the neglect of their warnings so far
been due to the way in which these have been given?
* The existing educational system of this country is chaotic, is ineflFectual,
is utterly behind the age, makes us the laughing-stock of every advanced nation
in Europe and America, puts us behind, not only our American cousins, but the
German and the Frenchman and the Italian. — Times, October 15, 1902.
