74 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Lord Eosebery, in the address to a Chamber of Commerce from
which I have already quoted, expressed his opinion that such bodies
do not exercise so much influence as might be expected of them. But
if commercial men do not use all the power their organization provides,
do they not by having built up such an organization put us students
of science to shame, who are still the most disorganized members of the
community ?
Here, in my opinion, we have the real reason why the scientific
needs of the nation fail to command the attention either of the public
or of successive governments. At present, appeals on this or on that
behalf are the appeals of individuals; science has no collective voice
on the larger national questions; there is no organized body which
formulates her demands.
During many years it has been part of my duty to consider such
matters, and I have been driven to the conclusion that our great crying
need is to bring about an organization of men of science and all in-
terested in science, similar to those which prove so efEective in other
branches of human activity. For the last few years I have dreamt of a
Chamber, Guild, League, call it what you will, with a wide and large
membership, which should give us what, in my opinion, is so urgently
needed. Quite recently I sketched out such an organization, but what
was my astonishment to find that I had been forestalled, and by the
founders of the British Association !
At the commencement of this address I pointed out that one of the
objects of the Association, as stated by its founders, was to obtain a
more general attention to the objects of science and a removal of any
disadvantages of a public kind which impede its progress.
Every one connected with the British Association from its be-
ginning may be congratulated upon the magnificent way in which the
other objects of the Association have been carried out, but as one
familiar with the Association for the last forty years, I can not but
think that the object to which I have specially referred has been too
much overshadowed by the work done in connection with the others.
A careful study of the early history of the association leads me to
the belief that the function I am now dwelling on was strongly in
the minds of the founders; but be this as it may, let me point out
how admirably the organization is framed to enable men of science
to influence public opinion and so to bring pressure to bear upon
governments which follow public opinion. (1) Unlike all the other
chief metropolitan societies, its outlook is not limited to any branch or
branches of science. (2) We have a wide and numerous fellowship,
including both the leaders and the lovers of science, in which all
branches of science are and always have been included with the utmost
catholicity — a condition which renders strong committees possible on
