BRAIN-POWER AND HISTORY. 75
any subject. (3) An annual meeting at a time when people can pay
attention to the deliberations, and when the newspapers can print
reports. (4) The possibility of beating up recruits and establishing
local committees in different localities, even in the Kings dominions
beyond the seas, since the place of meeting changes from year to
year, and is not limited to these islands.
We not only, then, have a scientific parliament competent to deal
with all matters, including those of national importance, relating to
science, but machinery for influencing all new councils and com-
mittees dealing with local matters, the functions of which are daily be-
coming more important.
The machinery might consist of our corresponding societies. We
already have affiliated to us seventy societies with a membership of
25,000; were this nmnber increased so as to include every scientific
society in the Empire, metropolitan and provincial, we might even-
tually hope for a membership of half a million.
I am glad to know that the Council is fully alive to the importance
of giving impetus to the work of the corresponding societies. During
this year a committee was appointed to deal with the question; and
later still, after this committee had reported, a conference was held
between this committee and the corresponding societies committee to
consider the suggestions made, some of which will be gathered from
the following extract :
In view of the increasing importance of science to the nation at large,
your committee desire to call the attention of the council to the fact that in
the corresponding societies the British Association has gathered in the various
centers represented by these societies practically all the scientific activity of
the provinces. The number of members and associates at present on the list
of the corresponding societies approaches 25,000, and no organization is in
existence anywhere in the country better adapted than the British Association
for stimulating, encouraging and coordinating all the work being carried on by
the seventy societies at present enrolled. Your committee are of opinion that
further encouragement should be given to these societies and their individual
working members by every means within the power of the association; and
with the object of keeping the corresponding societies in more permanent touch
with the association they suggest that an official invitation on behalf of the
council be addressed to the societies through the corresponding societies com-
mittee asking them to appoint standing British Association sub-committees,
to be elected by themselves with the object of dealing with all those subjects
of investigation common to their societies and to the British Association com-
mittees, and to look after the general interests of science and scientific educa-
tion throughout the provinces and provincial centers. . . .
Your committee desire to lay special emphasis on the necessity for the
extension of the scientific activity of the corresponding societies and the expert
knowledge of many of their members in the direction of scientific education.
They are of opinion that immense benefit would accrue to the country if the
corresponding societies would keep this requirement especially in view with the
object of securing adequate representation for scientific education on the edu-
