BRAIN-POWER AND HISTORY. 77
I suppose it is my duty after I have suggested the need of organiza-
tion to tell you my personal opinion as to the matters where we sujffer
most in consequence of our lack of organization at the present time.
Our position as a nation, our success as merchants, are in peril
chiefly — dealing with preventable causes — because of our lack of com-
pletely efficient universities, and our neglect of research. This research
has a double end. A professor who is not learning can not teach
properly or arouse enthusiasm in his students; while a student of
anything who is unfamiliar with research methods, and without that
training which research brings, will not be in the best position to apply
his knowledge in after life. From neglect of research come imperfect
education and a small output of new applications and new knowledge to
reinvigorate our industries. From imperfect education come the un-
concern touching scientific matters, and the too frequent absence of
the scientific spirit, in the nation generally from the court to the
parish council.
I propose to deal as briefly as I can with each of these points.
I have shown that so far as our industries are concerned, the
cause of our failure has been run to earth ; it is fully recognized that it
arises from the insufficiency of our universities both in numbers and
efficiency, so that not only our captains of industry, but those employed
on the nation s work generally, do not secure a training similar to that
afforded by other nations. No additional endowment of primary, second-
ary or technical instruction will mend matters. This is not merely the
opinion of men of science; our great towns know it, our ministers
know it.
It is sufficient for me to quote Mr. Chamberlain :
It is not every one who can, by any possibility, go forward into the higher
spheres of education; but it is from those who do that we have to look for the
men who, in the future, will carry high the flag of this country in commercial,
scientific and economic competition with other nations. At the present moment,
I believe there is nothing more important than to supply the deficiencies which
separate us from those with whom we are in the closest competition. In Ger-
many, in America, in our own colony of Canada and in Australia, the higher
education of the people has more support from the government, is carried
further, than it is here in the old country; and the result is that in every pro-
fession, in every industry, you find the places taken by men and by women
who have had a university education. And I would like to see the time in
this country when no man should have a chance for any occupation of the better
kind, either in our factories, our workshops or our counting-houses, who could
not show proof that, in the course of his university career, he had deserved the
position that was offered to him. What is it that makes a coimtry ? Of course
you may say, and you would be quite right, The general qualities of the people,
their resolution, their intelligence, their pertinacity, and many other good
qualities. Yes; but that is not all, and it is not the main creative feature of
a great nation. The greatness of a nation is made by its greatest men. It
is those we want to educate. It is to those who are able to go, it may be, from
