78 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the very lowest steps in the ladder, to men who are able to devote their time
to higher education, that we have to look to continue the position which we now
occupy as, at all events, one of the greatest nations on the face of the earth.
And, feeling as I do on these subjects, you will not be surprised if I say that I
think the time is coming when governments will give more attention to this
matter, and perhaps find a little more money to forward its interests (Times,
November 6, 1902).
Our conception of a university has changed. University education
is no longer regarded as a luxury of the rich which concerns only
those who can afford to pay heavily for it. The Prime Minister in a
recent speech, while properly pointing out that the collective effect of our
public and secondary schools upon British character can not be overrated,
frankly acknowledged that the boys of seventeen or eighteen who have
to be educated in them ^ do not care a farthing about the world they live
in except in so far as it concerns the cricket-field or the football-field
or the river. On this ground they are not to be taught science, and
hence, when they proceed to the university, their curriculum is limited
to subjects which were better taught before the modern world existed,
or even Galileo was born. But the science which these young gentlemen
neglect, with the full approval of their teachers, on their way through
the school and the university to politics, the civil service or the
management of commercial concerns, is now one of the great necessities
of a nation, and our universities must become as much the insurers of
the future progress as battleships are the insurers of the present power
of states. In other words, university competition between states is
now as potent as competition in building battleships, and it is on this
ground that our university conditions become of the highest national
concern and, therefore, have to be referred to here, and all the more
because our industries are not alone in question.
Chief among the causes which have brought us to the terrible condi-
tion of inferiority as compared with other nations in which we find
ourselves are our carelessness in the matter of education and our false
notions of the limitations of state functions in relation to the condi-
tions of modern civilization.
Time was when the navy was largely a matter of private and local
effort. William the Conqueror gave privileges to the Cinque Ports on
the condition that they furnished fifty-two ships when wanted. In
the time of Edward III., of 730 sail engaged in the siege of Calais,
705 were peoples ships. All this has passed away; for our first line
of defense we no longer depend on private and local effort.
Time was when not a penny was spent by the state on elementary
education. Again, we no longer depend upon private and local effort.
The navy and primary education are now recognized as properly
calling upon the public for the necessary financial support. But when
we pass from primary to university education, instead of state endow-
