BRAIN-POWER AND HISTORY. 79
ment we find state neglect; we are in a region where it is nobodys
business to see that anything is done.
We in Great Britain have thirteen universities competing with 134
state and privately endowed in the United States and 22 state en-
dowed in Germany. I leave other countries out of consideration for lack
of time, and I omit all reference to higher institutions for technical
training, of which Germany alone possesses nine of university rank,
because they are less important ; they instruct rather than educate, and
our want is education. The German State gives to one university more
than the British Government allows to all the universities and university
colleges in England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales put together. These
are the conditions which regulate the production of brain-power in the
United States, Germany and Britain respectively, and the excuse of the
government is that this is a matter for private effort. Do not our
Ministers of State know that other civilized countries grant efficient
state aid, and further, that private effort has provided in Great
Britain less than 10 per cent, of the sum thus furnished in the United
States in addition to state aid? Are they content that we should go
under in the great struggle of the modern world because the ministers
of other states are wiser, and because the individual citizens of an-
other country are more generous, than our own ?
If we grant that there was some excuse for the states neglect so
long as the higher teaching dealt only with words, and books alone had
to be provided (for the streets of London and Paris have been used
as class rooms at a pinch), it must not be forgotten that during the
last hundred years not only has knowledge been enormously increased,
but things have replaced words, and fully equipped laboratories must
take the place of books and class rooms if university training worthy
of the name is to be provided. There is much more difference in size
and kind between an old and a new university than there is between the
old caravel and a modern battleship, and the endowments must follow
suit.
What are the facts relating to private endowment in this country?
In spite of the munificence displayed by a small number of individuals
in some localities, the truth must be spoken. In depending in our
country upon this form of endowment, we are trusting to a broken reed.
If we take the twelve English university colleges, the forerunners of
universities unless we are to perish from lack of knowledge, we find that
private effort during sixty years has found less than 4,000,000/., that is,
2,000,000Z. for buildings and 40,000L a year income. This gives us
an average of 166,000/. for buildings and 3,300/. for yearly income.
Wliat is the scale of private effort we have to compete with in
regard to the American universities ?
In the United States, during the last few years, universities and
