8o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
colleges have received more than 40,000,000Z. from this source alone;
private effort supplied nearly 7,000,000Z. in the years 1898-1900.
Next consider the amount of state aid to universities afforded in
Germany. The buildings of the new University of Strassburg have
already cost nearly a million; that is, about as much as has yet been
found by private effort for buildings in Manchester, Liverpool, Bir-
mingham, Bristol, Newcastle and Sheffield. The government annual
endowment of the same German university is more than 49,000Z.
This is what private endowment does for us in England, against
state endowment in Germany.
But the state does really concede the principle ; its present contribu-
tion to our universities and colleges amounts to 155,600Z. a year; no
capital sum, however, is taken for buildings. The state endowment of
the University of Berlin in 1891-3 amounted to 168,777Z.
When, then, we consider the large endowments of university educa-
tion both in the United States and Germany, it is obvious that state
aid only can make any valid competition possible with either. The
more we study the facts, the more statistics are gone into, the more
do we find that we, to a large extent, lack both of the sources of
endowment upon one or other or both of which other nations depend.
We are between two stools, and the prospect is hopeless without some
drastic changes. And first among these, if we intend to get out of
the present slough of despond, must be the giving up of the idea of
relying upon private effort.
That we lose most where the state does least is known to Mr.
Chamberlain, for in his speech, to which I have referred, on the
University of Birmingham, he said: As the importance of the aim
we are pursuing becomes more and more impressed upon the minds
of the people, we may find that we shall be more generously treated
by the state.
Later still, on the occasion of a visit to University College School,
Mr. Chamberlain spoke as follows :
When we are spending, as we are, many millions — I think it is
13,000,000Z. — a year on primary education, it certainly seems as if
we might add a little more, even a few tens of thousands, to what we
give to university and secondary education {Times, November
6, 1902).
To compete on equal grounds with other nations we must have
more universities. But this is not all — we want a far better endow-
ment of all the existing ones, not forgetting better opportunities for
research on the part of both professors and students. Another crying
need is that of more professors and better pay. Another is the reduction
of fees; they should be reduced to the level in those coimtries which
are competing with us, to say, one fifth of their present rates, so as
