BRAIN-POWER AND HISTORY. 8i
to enable more students in the secondary and technical schools to
complete their education.
In all these ways, facilities would be afforded for providing the
highest instruction to a much greater number of students. At present
there are almost as many professors and instructors in the universities
and colleges of the United States as there are day students in the uni-
versities and colleges of the United Kingdom.
Men of science, our leaders of industry, and the chiefs of our
political parties all agree that our present want of higher education —
in other words, properly equipped universities — is heavily handicapping
us in the present race for commercial supremacy, because it provides a
relatively inferior brain-power which is leading to a relatively reduced
national income.
The facts show that in this country we can not depend upon private
effort to put matters right. How about local effort ?
Any one who studies the statistics of modern municipalities will
see that it is impossible for them to raise rates for the building and
up-keep of universities.
The buildings of the most modern university in Germany have cost
a million. For up-keep the yearly sums found, chiefly by the state, for
German universities of different grades, taking the incomes of seven
out of the twenty-two universities as examples are :
1st Class Berlin 130,000
2nd Class I S° I 56,000
( Gottingen j
3rd Class ].,,_,.._ [ 48,000
Strassburji
Heidelber
Marburg
, „, f Heidelberji , „_ _„„
4tli Class j ,, _, ^ !- 37,000
Thus if Leeds, which is to have a university, is content with the 4th
class German standard, a rate must be levied of 7d. in the pound for
yearly expenses, independent of all buildings. But the facts are that
our towns are already at the breaking strain. During the last fifty
}ears, in spite of enormous increases in ratable values, the rates have
gone up from about 2s. to about 7s. in the pound for real local purposes.
But no university can be merely a local institution.
What, then, is to be done? Fortunately, we have a precedent ad-
mirably in point, the consideration of which may help us to answer
this question.
I have pointed out that in old days our Navy was chiefly provided
by local and private effort. Fortunately for us, those days have passed
away; but some twenty years ago, in spite of a large expenditure, it
began to be felt by those who knew that in consequence of the increase
VOL. LXIV,
