S2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of foreign navies, our sea-power was threatened, as now, in conse-
quence of the increase of foreign universities, our brain-power is
threatened.
The nation slowly woke up to find that its enormous commerce was
no longer insured at sea, that in relation to foreign navies our own
had been suffered to dwindle to such an extent that it was no longer
capable of doing the duty which the nation expected of it even in time
of peace. At first, this revelation was received with a shrug of in-
credulity, and the peace-at-any-price party denied that anything was
needed; but a great teacher arose;* as the facts were inquired into the
suspicion changed into an alarm ; men of all parties saw that something
must be done. Later, the nation was thoroughly aroused, and with
universal agreement the principle was laid down that, cost what it
might to enforce our sea-power, our Navy must be made and maintained
of a strength greater than those of any two possibly contending powers.
After establishing this principle, the next thing to do was to give
effect to it. What did the nation do after full discussion and inquiry?
A bill was brought in in 1888, and a sum of 21,500,000/. was voted in
order, during the next five years, to inaugurate a large ship-building
program, so that Britain and Britains commerce might be guarded on
the high seas in any event.
Since then we have spent 120,000,000/. on new ships, and this year
we spend still more millions on still more new ships. If these prove
insufficient to safeguard our sea-power, there is no doubt that the
nation will increase them, and I have not heard that anybody has sug-
gested an appeal to private effort.
How, then, do we stand with regard to universities, recognizing
them as the chief producers of brain-power and therefore the equivalents
of battleships in relation to sea-power? Do their numbers come up to
the standard established by the Admiralty principle to which I have
referred? Let us attempt to get a rough-and-ready estimate of our
•educational position by counting universities as the Admiralty counts
battleships. I say rough and ready because we have other helps to
greater brain-power to consider besides universities, as the Admiralty
has other ships to consider besides ironclads.
In the first place, let us inquire if they are equal in number to those
of any two nations commercially competing with us.
In the United Kingdom, we had until quite recently thirteen.
Of these, one is only three years old as a teaching university and an-
other is still merely an examining board.
* Captain Mahan, of the U. S. Navy, whose book, On the Influence of Sea-
power on History, has suggested the title of my address.
t Tiiese are Oxford, Cambridge, Durham, Victoria, Wales, Birmingham,
Xiondon, St. Andrews, Glasgow, Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Dublin and Royal Uni-
Tersity.
