BRAIN-POWER AND HISTORY. S3
In Germany there are twenty-two universities; in France, under
recent legislation, fifteen; in Italy, twenty-one. It is difficult to
give the number in the United States, because it is clear, from the
tables given in the Eeport of the Commissioner of Education, that
some colleges are more imjDortant than some universities, and both give
the degree of Ph.D. But of universities in title we have 134. Among
these, there are forty-six with more than fifty professors and instructors,
and thirteen with more than 150. I will take that figure.
Suppose we consider the United States and Germany our chief com-
mercial competitors, and apply the Admiralty principle. We should
require, allowing for population, eight additional universities at the
very lowest estimate.
We see, then, that instead of having universities equaling in num-
ber those of two of our chief competitors together, they are by no
means equal to those of either of them singly.
After this statement of the facts, any one who has belief in the
importance of higher education will have no difficulty in understanding
the origin of the present condition of British industry and its constant
decline, first in one direction and then in another, since the tremendous
efforts made in the United States and Germany began to take effect.
If, indeed, there be anything wrong about the comparison, the error
can only arise from one of two sources; either the Admiralty is
thoughtlessly and wastefully spending money, or there is no connection
whatever between the higher intelligence and the prosperity of a nation.
I have already referred to the views of Mr. Chamberlain and Lord
Eosebery on this point; we know what Mr. Chamberlain has done at
Birmingham; we know the strenuous efforts made by the commercial
leaders of Manchester and Liverpool; we know, also, the opinion of
men of science.
If while we spend so freely to maintain our sea-power our export
of manufactured articles is relatively reduced because our competitors
beat us in the markets of the world, what is the end of the vista thus
opened up to us? A Navy growing stronger every year and requiring
larger votes to guard our commerce and communications, and a vanish-
ing quantity of commerce to guard — a reduced national income to meet
an increasing taxation !
The pity is that our government has considered sea-power alone;
that while so completely guarding our commerce it has given no
thought to Que of the main conditions on which its production and
increase depend: a glance could have shown that other countries were
building universities even faster than they were building battleships;
were, in fact, considering brain-power first and sea-power afterwards.
Surely it is my duty as your president to point out the danger
ahead if such ignoring of the true situation should be allowed to con-
