BRAIN-POWER AND HISTORY. 85
ing staff of that class of university should be granted without demur.
It is the case of battleships over again, and money need not be
sjjent more freely in one case than in the other.
Let me at once say that this sum is not to be regarded as practically
gone when spent, as in the case of a short-lived ironclad. It is a loan
which will bear a high rate of interest. This is not my opinion merely;
it is the opinion of those concerned in great industrial enterprises and
fully alive to the origin and effects of the present condition of things.
I have been careful to point out that the statement that our indus-
tries are suffering from our relative neglect of science does not rest
on my authority. But if this be true, then if our annual production is
less by only two millions than it might have been, having two millions
less to divide would be equivalent to our having forty or fifty millions
less capital than we should have had if we had been more scientific.
Sir John Brunner, in a speech connected with the Liverpool School
of Tropical Medicine, stated recently that if we as a nation were now
to borrow ten millions of money in order to help science by putting
up buildings and endowing professors, we should get the money back
in the course of a generation a hundredfold. He added that there was
no better investment for a business man than the encouragement of
science, and that every penny he possessed had come from the appli-
cation of science to commerce.
According to Sir Eol^ert Giffen, the United Kingdom as a going
concern was in 1901 worth 16,000,000,000L
Were we to put aside 24,000,000Z. for gradually organizing, building
and endowing new universities, and making the existing ones more
efficient, we should still be worth 15,976,000,000/., a property well worth
defending by all the means, and chief among these brain-power, we can
command. If it be held that this, or anything like it, is too great a
price to pay for correcting past carelessness or stupidity, the reply is
that the 120,000,000L recently spent on the navy, a sum five times
greater, has been spent to correct a sleepy blunder, not one whit more
inimical to the future welfare of our country than that which has
brought about our present educational position. We had not sufficiently
recognized what other nations had done in the way of ship building, just
as until now we have not recognized what they have been doing in uni-
versity building.
Further, I am told that the sum of 24,000,000/. is less than half
the amount by which Germany is yearly enriched by having improved
upon our chemical industries, owing to our lack of scientific training.
Many other industries have been attacketd in the same way since, but
taking this one instance alone, if we had spent this money fifty years
ago, when the Prince Consort first called attention to our backwardness.
