SHORTER ARTICLES AND DISCUSSION.
87
SHOETER ARTICLES AND DISCUSSION.
THE AURORA BORE ALT S OF
AUGUST 21.
To THE Editor: I have been much
interested in the account given by Dr.
A. F. A. King of the unusual aurora
observed by him on the twenty-first of
August at York Harbor, Maine (Pop-
ular Science Monthly, Vol. LXIII.,
pp. 563-4), because I also observed it
the same evening from a point near
Baddeck, Cape Breton Island, Nova
Scotia.
My attention was called to the dis-
play about 8:45 p.m., Halifax time
(this would be about 7:45 p.m. by east-
ern standard time, which I presume
is the time used by Dr. King). There
was then nothing unusual about the
aurora.
I went out of doors especially for the
purpose of ascertaining whether any
auroral arch was visible extending
from east to west across the zenith;
for I observed such a phenomenon here
two or three years ago (but without
the comet-like appendages described by
Dr. King) and have been on the look-
out since for its reappearance. Cer-
tainly no such arch was visible here at
8:45 P.M. on August 21, and the whole
display seemed then to be on the wane.
Shortly after 9:00 p.m. only a diffused
glow remained in the northern sky
above a bank of auroral cloud.
During the course of the night I ob-
served the aurora occasionally to see
if there was any change, but noticed
nothing unusual until 12:45. The
arch might have appeared between
9:00 p.m. and 12:45 without my no-
ticing it, as intervals of at least an
hour separated my observations. I can
say positively that it did not appear
between 12:45 and 2:30 a.m., as I was
out of doors continuously watching the
sky during that time. From 9 : 00 p.m.
till after midnight I noticed nothing
more than the usual faint glow in the
north; but happening to glance out
of the window at 12:45 I was startled
by the tremendous activity then dis-
played. The maximvuu was reached
about 1:00 a.m., and by 2:00 A.M. the
display was practically over. At 2:30
A.M., I returned indoors and made a
record of my observations, from which
I quote the following extract :
. . . Looking out about 12:45 (a
quarter to one a. m., Saturday) great
activity was manifest. The whole
northern sky was ablaze, pulsations
of light streamed upwards from the
horizon as though light phosphor-
escent clouds were being blown along
by a hurricane. Upon going out I
found that faint auroral clouds cov-
ered the whole sky even to the south.
Faint pulsations of light in the south
appeared to be streaming north while
the northern streamers streamed
south.
Observing attentively, there seemed
to be a luminous streaming upwards
from the horizon all around, conver-
ging — not at the zenith — but at a point
of the sky which I should think would
be opposite the sun. I was power-
fully impressed by the idea that these
were parallel rays directed away from
the sun, rendered convergent by per-
spective.
At the point opposite the sun a con-
siderable space — roughly circular in
outline — seemed to be generally free
from luminous cloud effects, except
when a suffused glow would come and
cover the space — a momentary glow
without stream effect. Towards the
circular space the stream effects were
centrally directed all round, being
most marked in the northern and
northwestern sky, where the stream
effects were vivid — luminous pulsa-
tions like light smoke driven by a
hurricane. The stream effects were
much less marked in the western,
southern and eastern sky. Light
glows would appear, but only by at-
