88
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tention could the stream effects be
disting-uished. I am certain, however,
that they were there and that the
direction was upwards towards this
anti-helial (?) position everywhere.
The appearances noted, were highly
suggestive of luminous matter of some
sort streaming past the earth on all
sides with tremendous velocity in a
direction away from the sun — the
parallel streams being rendered ap-
parently convergent by perspective.
The aurora, however, is believed to
be a strictly terrestrial phenomenon
in the nature of an electrical discharge
in the higher regions of the atmos-
phere; although good grounds exist
for supposing that there is some inti-
mate connection between great auroral
displays on the earth and disturbances
going on in the sun.
In this connection it would be inter-
esting to know where Borellis comet
was at the time. It was then rapidly
nearing its closest approach to the
sun.
Alexander Graham Bell.
Beinn Bhreagh, near Baddeck, Nova
Scotia, September 26, 1903.
MR. COOK ON EVOLUTION, CYTOL-
OGY, AND MENDELS LAWS.
To THE Editor: Owing to my ab-
sence in Europe, Mr. 0. F. Cooks
article, published under the above
title in the July number of the Pop-
ular Science Monthly, has only now
come to my attention. Mr. Cooks
somewhat drastic criticism of the sue-
gestion regarding Mendelian inherit-
ance, made in my article in the issue
of Science for December 19, 1902,
takes a prominent place in his essay
and relates to a question of wide bio-
logical interest. I, therefore, ask
space to point out that he failed to
grasp the nature of the suggestion; and
unfortunately the confusion was worse
confounded by his misquotation, of
course unintentional, of my own state-
ment in such a way as to make me
seem to commit the very erroi- that is
the object of his criticism, though I
myself had expressly warned against
such an error in a paper read before
the Washington meeting of the Ameri-
can Association last December!
Mr. Cooks objection to the sugges-
tion, as he understood it and as he
quoted it, is perfectly correct, and the
man of straw thus set up by his own
hand is properly overthrown. As-
suredly, to maintain that the reducing
division in the maturation of the germ-
cells leads to the separation of
paternal and maternal elements and
their ultimate isolation as separate
germ-cells (this as quoted by Mr.
Cook, italics mine) involves, as he
points out, the reductio ad absurdum
that the individual could not show
characters individually traceable to
more than two grandparents; for this
form of statement implies that purely
paternal or maternal groups of chro-
mosomes are separated by the division,
to be isolated as such in the gametes,
tlie latter being thus rendered pure
in respect to parentage. But this, of
course, was not my meaning, nor was
it what I said. Mr. Cook failed to
perceive that my statement referred,
not to the parental groups, but to the
members of the individual pairs of
paternal and maternal chromosomes.
What I said was the isolation of the
paternal and maternal elements, not
as but in separate germ-cells ; and
the elements thus separated from each
other were specifically designated as
the members of each pair. I regret
that Mr. Cook did not read with greater
attention; for my phraseology was
carefully chosen, the untenability of the
view which is erroneously ascribed to
me having been clearly pointed out by
Mr. Sutton when he first brouo-ht
his suggestion to my attention, and
since fully considered by him in an
article on The Chromosomes in
Heredity published in the Biological
Bulletin for last April. It is only
fair to add that since Mr. Cook ac-
cuses me, as he does Mr. Cannon, of a
failure to understand the Mendelian
