SHOBTEB ARTICLES AND DISCUSSION
89
principle, it is probable that his mis-
interpretation arose from the asso-
•ciation in his mind of my communica-
tion with Mr. Cannons paper on A
Cytological Basis of Mendels Law,
where unfortunately the error in ques-
tion was not avoided. This paper I
first saw after its publication.
In point of fact the cytological evi-
dence on which Sutton based his sug-
gestion leaves quite undecided the
question whether any definite order is
followed in the grouping of the
■chromosome-pairs in the equatorial
plate, and places no obstacle in the
way of assuming that their position
is a matter of chance, i. e , that pa-
ternal and maternal chromosomes may
lie indifferently toward either pole,
and that consequently all combinations
of paternal and maternal chromo-
somes may be produced in the gametes.
To employ Suttons graphic illustra-
tion : if the number of chromosomes be
taken as 8 and designated as A, a,
B, b, C, e, D, d (large letters denoting
paternal chromosomes and small ones
the corresponding maternal), the
chromosome-pairs in the equatorial
plate might, so far as the cytological
evidence shows, present any or all
ABCD abCD aBcD
the groupings — ; — r- , - ^^;, - . — .
= ^ ^ abed A Bed AbCd
and so on, which gives a possibility
of 16 difierent combinations in the
gametes and of 256 in the zygotes or
ofispring. If the number of chromo-
somes be 24 (a very common number ) ,
the number of possible combinations in
the gametes becomes more than 4,000
and in the zygotes nearly 17,000,000
(Sutton). The assumption is, there-
fore, in full harmony with the fact
that offspring may show many dif-
ferent combinations of characters indi-
vidually traceable to four grandparents
■or a greater number of more remote
ancestors.
Despite the immense range of mixed
variation and inheritance thus per-
mitted under the assumption, a point
•of real difficulty, not touched on by
Mr. Cook, is the relatively small num-
ber of chromosomes as compared with
that of transmissible characters; for
if the chromosome-hypothesis, as de-
veloped by Sutton, be valid, it would
seem to follow that each chromosome
stands not for one, but for many, char-
acters, and these should form a co-
herent group in inheritance. Coherent
groups of associated characters have,
however, been recognized by many
observers, including Mendel himself;
and in this direction definite evidence
for or against the chromosome hy-
pothesis may perhaps be obtained by
the comparative study of variation in
nearly related species that differ in the
number of chromosomes, though this
presents a problem of great complexity.
Regarding cases of non-conformity to
the so-called Mendelian law or prin-
ciple, Sutton has endeavored to show
that they do not invalidate the sug-
gestions given by the cytological work
of himself, Montgomery, Cannon and
others. They sufficiently indicate,
however, that these suggestions do not
yet afford a full or positive explana-
tion, but only, in my own former
phrase, give a clue which awaits
further development and test. It is
entirely possible that the clue may
prove false, yet even so it may serve to
illustrate that fertility of false
theories to which Mr. Cook pays his
tribute. In the meantime it is to be
regretted that a biologist of Mr. Cooks
standing should give currency to the
statement that The notion that
heredity, variation and evolution are
the functions of special organs or me-
chanisms of cells has no ascertained
basis of fact [1. c, p. 222). This
notion may be true or false, but such
an utterance will be truly surprising
to any one having some degree of ac-
quaintance with the literature of em-
bryology and cytology.
Edmund B. Wilson.
Columbia University,
September 24, 1903.
