THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
91
THE PKOGEESS OF SCIENCE.
THE COLLEGE OF THE CITY OF
NEW YORK.
Since 1848 the College of tlie City
of New York and its predecessor, the
Free Academy, have carried forward an
educational work the importance of
which is scarcely appreciated. Yale
and Princeton are household words,
where the existence of the City College
is unknown. Yet the college has
rivaled the more prominent institutions
both in numbers of students and in
the efficiency of the courses of instruc-
tion. From the point of view of this
journal, it is sufficient to note that
at least two members of the National
Academy of Sciences are graduates of
the college, and that the only living ex-
president of the academy was formerly
one of its professors. There is rea-
son to believe that September 29, wlen
a new president was installed and the
corner-stone of the new buildings was
laid, will mark an epoch in the history
of the institution, and that it will be-
come one of the chief centers for the
educational progress of the future.
The ceremonies of installation and
dedication were themselves imposing.
Those who hold that academic proces-
sions, gowns and the like are some-
what out of place in a modern demo-
cratic community were at least given
the pleasure of seeing gowns handed
out with an even hand to all, whether
or not they possessed academic degrees.
The fact of special interest was the
representation on the program of re-
publicans and democrats, of protes-
tants, catholics and iews, all unTtinof
in the service of the college without
regard to political or denominational
differences. Mayor Low spoke im-
mediately after Mr. Shepard, his
rival in the contest for the mayorality
two years ago, and Ex-President Cleve-
land followed Senator Depew. Other
speeches were made by Governor Odell,
the presidents of Columbia, Cornell,
Yale and the Johns Hopkins Univer-
sities, and by representatives of the
trustees, faculty, alumni and students
of the college. The new president of
the college made an admirable in-
augural address, showing full appre-
ciation of the problems before the col-
lege and the city.
Dr. John Huston Finley was ofiered
the presidency of the college after a
careful search had been made throu2-h
the whole country for the best attain-
able man. That one born in Illinois,
at the time professor in a university in
another state, regarding whose political
or religious affiliations no questions
were asked, was chosen, shows that mu-
nicipal institutions can be conducted
without local or partisan prejudice.
General Webb, who retires from the
presidency at the age of sixty-seven
years, held the office for twenty-three
years. A graduate of West Point and
a general in the regular army, he pos-
sessed valuable qualifications for the
office, but he was not an educational
leader. The students were well trained
and well drilled, but instructors were
assigned to teach subjects with which
they were not familiar and investiga-
tion was not sufficiently encouraged.
The college did not take an important
place in the educational and scientific
progress of the country. Dr. Finley
has the vigorous personality and has
had the training and experience fitting
liim for a college presidency — one of
the most responsible and influential,
and at the same time one of the most
complicated and difficult of positions.
As a boy he worked on a farm and in a
