94
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing a somewhat similar site, but not so
completely shut in by apartment
houses. Gothic architecture, like aca-
demic gowns, seems to belong to the
past rather than to the future, but a
traditional environment carries with it
much that is good, and there is per-
haps move danger in innovation than
in imitation. The architect, Mr. Geo.
B. Post, has certainly fitted the build-
ings admirably to the site and united
them to a picturesque whole. It is
unfortunate that the modern college
cinnati has a municipal university. But
the New York institution, coordinate
with the great state universities, must
lead the way. Here all the questions
of the relation of the college to the
high school and to the university, of
liberal to technical studies, of higher
education to the state, of public to
semi-private and semi-religious insti-
tutions, will become pressing. We do
not hesitate to express the opinion
that the maintenance of education is as
completely a public duty as the main-
Chemical and Mechanical Arts Buildings from College Grounds.
and the scientific laboratory have not
developed a significant architectual
form, but it is useless to complain of
the inevitable.
It has been indicated that the Col-
lege of the City of New York may be-
come one of the storm-centers of educa-
tional development. In spite of re-
marks made at the installation cere-
monies by several of the speakers, in-
cluding university presidents, the New
York City College is not unique. There
are somewhat similar institutions in
Philadelphia and Baltimore, and Cin-
tenance of the courts or of the army,
that higher education should no more
be left to private initiative than ele-
mentary education, and that ulti-
mately all the educational and scien-
tific institutions of New York City will
be unified under the control of the
people of the city.
AERIAL NAVIGATION.
Readers of The Popular Science
Monthly may naturally expect to find
here more or less authoritative state-
ments in regard to scientific matters
