THE PROGEESS OF SCIENCE.
95
exploited in the newspapers. One of
the subjects that has attracted partic-
ular attention recently is the aerodrome
of Dr. S. P. Langley, secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. The some-
what sensational character of the at-
tempt to fly and the secrecy with
which the proceedings are surrounded
have naturally excited public cviriosity,
and the newspapers have found the
failure of the machines a good oppor-
tunity for jokes, so that we read of
airships as submarines and the like.
Dr. Langley has carried forward im-
portant researches in aerodynamics,
and has done more than any one else
toward constructing an aeroplane that
would fly. After numerous experi-
ments and failures a machine was
launched in 1896 that stayed in the
air from one to two minutes. We
reproduce from the Report of the
Smithsonian Institution for 1900, two
pictures of this aerodrome, one an
imaginary sketch, the other from a
photograph taken by Dr. A. Graham
Bell. The total length was about 16
feet and the width between the wings
about 12 feet. The weight was about
30 pounds, of which one fourth was
represented by the machinery, the en-
gines, which could supply one to one
and a half horse-power, weighing 26
r
sonian Institution for 1900, and to
this our readers may refer. It ap-
pears to us that Dr. Langley takes
rather too little credit for his work on
aerodynamics and rather too much
The Aerodrome as it might appear in
THE Air.
ounces, and the boiler about 5 pounds.
Dr. Langley has not published a
scientific account of his work, but con-
tributed a popular article to McGlures
Magazine for June, 1897, which he
reprinted in the Report of the Smith-
The Aerodrome. Ready for Launching.
for the practical success of his flying
machine. Hundreds of patents for
aeroplanes had been taken previously,
and toys had been constructed that
would fly. The Langley aerodrome
was not steered, nor tried in a breeze,
nor able to carry any weight, nor kept
in the air as long as two minutes.
This record has of course been much
surpassed by dirigible balloons and
perhaps by artificial flight. Aero-
planes can doubtless be made to fly;
as Lord Rayleigh, quoting Mr. Maxim,
has said, it is mainly a question of
some time and much money. Aero-
planes will probably be used for mili-
tary jjurposes and for adventure, but
not for the ordinary uses of transpor-
tation and commerce. Dr. Langley
seems to claim too much when he
writes in a popular magazine that he
has demonstrated the practicability of
mechanical flight and that the great
universal highway overhead is now
soon to be opened ; that aerodromes
may be built to remain days in the
