Information for Authors
Articles from botanical systematics and ecology, including
biographical sketches, critical reviews and sunnmaries of literature
will be considered for publication in PHYTOLOGIA. Manuscripts
may be submitted either on computer diskette, or as typescript.
Diskettes will be returned to authors after action has been taken on
the manuscript. Diskettes may be 5.25 inches or 3.5 inches but
must be written in DOS format or as flat ASCII files. Typescript
manuscripts should be single spaced and will be read into the
computer using a page scanner. The scanner will read standard
typewriter fonts but will not read dot matrix print. Manuscripts
submitted in dot matrix print cannot be accepted. Use underscore
(not italics) for soienti,fic names. Corrections made on typescript
manuscripts must be complete and neat as the scanner will not
read them otherwise. Language of manuscripts may be either
Englis^h or Spanish. Figures will be reduced to fit within limits of
text pages and therefore, should be submitted with an internal
jj scale and have dimensions proportional to those for text pages.
^^ L$gend^ for figures should be included in figures whenever
Vi .possible. £act\ manuscript should have an abstract and key word
li$t. Specimen citations should be consistent throughout the
nianuscript. Serial titles should be cited with abbreviations used in
Botanico Periodicum Huntianum. References cited only as part of
nomenclatural summaries should not appear in Literature Cited.
Nomenclatural work should include one paragraph per basionym
and must provide proper (as defined by the current International
Code of Botanical Nomenclature) citation of sources of epithets
and combinations.
Authors should arrange for two workers in the appropriate field to
review the manuscript before submission. Copies of reviews should
be forwarded to the editor with the manuscript. Manuscripts will
not be published without review.
Cost of publication is currently $12.00 US per page for publica-
tion without reprints. Publication with 100 reprints is provided for
$16.50 US per page, 200 reprints for $20.00 US per page. Page
charges are due with manuscript and no paper will be published
before payment is received in full. Reprints must be ordered and
paid for in advance. Page charges will be determined on the basis
of a typescript page (single spaced, 10 points, blank line between
paragraphs) with all type inside a rectangle 143 mm (horizonal) by
219 mm(vertical), not including running head and page number.
Title page should include title, author(s) name(s) and address(es).
Two blank lines should appear above and below section headings
(Abstract, Discussion, Literature Cited, etc.) in the manuscript. No
extra charge is made for line drawings provided they conform to
limitations of size and proportion for normal text. Halftones require
an extra charge of $5.00 US per page.
