432 PHYTOLOGIA volume 68(6):428-434 June 1990
and shrubs. Particularly common in bogs were those that prefer wet habitat.
In the bog transects the foUowing taxa occurred, often in mixed species tan-
gles: Myrica certfera, Persea borboma, Aroma arbutifolia, Viburnum nudum,
Vaccinium corymbosum, Magnolia virgimana, Liquidambar styraciflua, Acer
rubrum, Pinus spp., At some bogs, some trees were large (e.^., magnolia), but
these usually grew near the edge of the site.
In the pine woods transects, the following species occurred often in dense
tangles: Myrica cenfera, Persea borboma, Magnolia virgimana, Acer rubrum,
Liquidambar styraciflua, Vaccinium corymbosum, Ilex vomitoria, I. opaca,
Comus florida, and Pinus spp.
The ground cover in bogs consisted of grasses, sedges, and various showy
forbs. Bogs are among the most species rich habitats in North America (Walker
k Peet 1983). Four Natchitoches Parish bogs, which ranged in size from 0.4
to 3 ha, averaged 101 species (MacRoberts k MacRoberts 1990). The ground
cover in the pine woods is not species rich and consisted of a few species of
grass and forbs and a thick accumulation of pine needles.
DISCUSSION
Streng (1979; Streng k Harcombe 1982) studied size distribution and spa-
tial dispersion of trees in four habitats (meadows, savannas, baygalls, and pine
woods) in the Big Thicket National Preserve in Texas, about 170 km SW of
our study area. With minor differences, Streng's "meadow'" corresponds to
our "bog;" the pine woods in the two studies are the same habitat. Streng's
findings are nearly identical to ours: bogs were open with a low density of
widely scattered small trees (mainly Pinus), a paucity of tree species, and an
extensive and diverse herbaceous layer; whereas pine woods had a high density
of trees (again mainly Pinus but also hardwoods) and a variety of species, and
little or no herbaceous understory. In short, woody plant growth is restricted
in bogs while herbaceous growth is restricted in pine woods.
While the reasons for the differences in tree production in pine woods and
bogs are not entirely clear, pyric and edaphic factors have been repeatedly
suggested as important (Folkerts 1982; Nixon k Ward 1986). The edaphic
conditions of bogs (high acidity, waterlogging, and low nutrient soil), retard
the growth of trees, making the seedlings that do sprout extremely vulnerable
to fire (Streng 1979; Streng k Harcombe 1982). Open habitat is conducive
to extensive herbaceous plant growth that, in turn, creates the conditions for
frequent fires. Pine woods, on the other hand, occur on less acidic, drier and
deeper soils that are conducive to tree growth when fire exclusion occurs. Trees
shade out the herbaceous understory. Bogs in Streng's area appeared to be self
sustaining, as long as the natural fire rhythm was maintained. Her findings
appear to apply to the Natchitoches bogs also.
