Phyiologta (June 1990) 68(6):435-438.
TRIXIS ANOMALA (ASTERACEAE, MUTISEAE), A NEW SPECIES FROM
CHIAPAS, MEXICO
B.L. Turner
Department of Botany, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78713 U.S.A.
ABSTRACT
Trixis anomala B. Turner, a new species from montane cloud
forests of central Chiapas, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It dif-
fers from all other North American species in possessing an amomadous
involucre that is turbinate or subturbinate with 3-4 series of graduate
involucPcd bracts, the inner of which is not cleeirly uniseriate.
KEY WORDS: Trtxis, Mutiseae, Asteraceae, Mexico.
Preparation of a treatment of Trixis for the Asteraceae of Mexico (Turner
&c Nesom, in prep.) has revealed the following novelty. The specimens upon
which the description is based were apparently not available to Anderson
(1972) in her excellent monograph of the genus.
Trixis anomala B. Turner, spec, nov., Figure 1. TYPE: MEXICO. Chi-
apas: Cascada, near Siltepec, 1600 m, 1 Mar 1945, Eizi Matuda 5184
(HOLOTYPE: LL!; Isotype: LL!).
Tnxis silvaticae B.L. Robins. & Greenm. similis sed differt cauli-
bus sine alls, involucro subturbinato 3-4 seriate bracteis gradatis
abbreviatis, bracteis accessoriis multo redactis vel absentibus, et
receptaculo glabro vel fere glabro.
Shrubs to about 3 m high. Stems terete, not winged, moderately to densely
strigopuberulous. Leaves alternate, mostly 10-19 cm long, 3-5 cm wide; peti-
oles mostly 5-10 mm long; blades relatively thin, ovate elliptical to elliptical
obovate, widest at or near the middle, moderately white puberulous beneath,
the margins minutely serrulate, the apices acute. Heads 8 to numerous, borne
in an erect or ascending terminal capitulescence, the ultimate peduncles mostly
1-5 mm long. Involucres turbinate, 10-12 mm high, the bracts 3-4 seriate,
graduate, the innermost not clearly in a single series. Accessory bracts 1-4,
lanceolate, 1-3 mm long, grading into the involucral bracts proper. Receptacle
435
