Turner: New Trixis {rom Chiapa.s Mexico 437
plane, ca. 1.5 mm across. epaJeate, glabrous or nearly so (perhaps a smatter-
ing of scattered hairs). Florets 11-12 per head, the corollas seemingly yellow,
glabrous, the peripheral florets with corolla tubes 5-6 mm long, the outer hps
ca. 3 mm long, revolute at the apices. Achenes fusiform, ca. 6 mm long, gradu-
ally tapered from about the middle, moderately pubescent with both glandular
and hispid hairs, the pappus of numerous tawny white bristles, 8-10 mm long.
ADDITIONAL SPECIMEN EXAMINED: MEXICO. Chiapas: Mpio. Cin-
talapa, SE of Cerro Baul on the border with Oajcaca, 16 km NW of Rizo de
Oro (a logging road to Colonia Figaroa), 1600 m, 21 Apr 1972, D.E. Breedlove
24753 {TEX).
The present species, because of its wingless stems, small receptacles and pe-
ripheral florets with small revolute outer corolla tips will key with difficulty to
Trixis parviflora'm Anderson's 1972 treatment of the genus. It differs markedly
from that species, and all North American species, in possessing an involucre
of 3-4 series of bracts, these markedly graduate (Figure 1, lower left), the inner
series not clearly uniseriate (hence the specific name). Accessory bracts are
much reduced and grade into the involucral bracts, the involucre as a whole
much resembling that of the genus Acourtia. In all other characters, however,
it is clearly a Tnxis. Indeed, I originally identified the holotype as T. nelsonii
or possible T. silvatica, the species to which it appears most closely aligned,
having the general habit of these taxa, similar florets, but lacking the winged
stems and markedly pubescent receptacles. And, of course, the involucre of
both T. nelsonii and T. silvatica are markedly different in possessing non-
graduate involucres with well developed subtending accessory bracts. Trixis
anoma/a has about the same range as T. silvatica and T. nelsonii. all three con-
fined to central Chiapas, but all markedly different among themselves. While
the involucre is anomalous among the North American species, some of the
species from South America have involucres which approach T. anomala, and
the latter may relate to groups from that area.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I am grateful to Guy Nesom for the Latin diagnosis and to him and Dr.
Andrew McDonald for reviewing the manuscript. Ms. Nancy Webber provided
the illustration.
