440 PHYTOLOGIA volume 68(6):439-465 June 1990
MACHAERANTHERA
Machaeranthera Nees, Gen. Sp. Aster, p. 224. 1832. TYPE SPECIES:
Machaeranthera tanacetifolia (Kunth) Nees (For complete synonymy see
Turner 1987). BASIONYM: Aster tanacetifolia Kunth, Nov. Gen. Sp.
4:95. 1820.
Plants herbaceous, taprooted annuals, biennials, or perennials 0.3-11.0 dm
tall, glabrous or variously pubescent, often with a much branched caudex.
Leaves alternate, simple, linear to broadly lanceolate, spatulate, or trian-
gular with entire, serrate, or dentate margins or oblong to ovate in outHne
with deeply pinnatifid to bipinnatifid margins, the teeth or lobes often bris-
tle tipped. Heads radiate or eradiate. Involucre depressed hemispheric to
turbinate, 0.4-2.5 cm wide. Phyllaries in 2-10, usually graduated series, im-
bricate, linear to broadly oblong or lanceolate, the lower portion usually stiff,
stramineous or purple tinged, the upper fifth to four-fifths herbaceous, often
purple tinged, or with a green strip or rhombic patch, erect, spreading, or
reflexed, obtuse to long attenuate, often bristle tipped. Receptacle flat or
slightly convex, usually alveolate, nearly smooth or with scales to 3 mm long
subtending the florets. Ray florets when present pistillate, fertile, ca. 15-60.
the corollas yellow, white, pink to purple, or blue, rounded to bi- or tridentate
at the apex. Disc florets perfect, fertile, ca. 30-150 or more, the corollas yeUow,
5-merous, with a cylindrical tube gradually flaring into the limb, with erect or
spreading, triangular lobes. Style branches of ray florets stigmatic along the
entire margin; disc florets stigmatic along the lower margins with appendages
broadly triangular to attenuate. Achenes linear to broadly obovate or nar-
rowly cordate, smooth to prominently ribbed, thin to thick walled, glabrous
to densely pubescent; ray achenes terete to 3 sided or laterally flattened. Pap-
pus persistent, often reduced or lacking on the ray florets, the bristles filiform
to subulate, scabrous, white to brownish, in 1-3 often weakly graduated series,
dorsiventraUy flattened near the base in some species. Chromosome number,
n = 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, or 9.
Machaeranthera, as delimited in this treatment, may be separated from re-
lated genera by the following combinations of characters. The blue and white
rayed members are distinguishable from Aster by being mostly taprooted and
by having one or more of the following features: bristly tipped phyllaries
and/or spiny toothed or pinnatifid leaves; epappose ray florets: or linear to
clavate achenes 3-6 mm long. They are most easily separated from Xylorhiza
in that the taproot is not massive with copious periderm (Watson 1977). The
yellow rayed members may be distinguished from related homochromous gen-
era by the short, turbinate achenes (less than 3 mm long) and the gradually
flaring (vs. abruptly dilated) disc corollas.
