Hartmaji: Conspectus of Machaeranthera (Aster&ceae: Asterca-e) 441
Key to the Subgenera and Sections of Machaer anther a
1. Ray florets white (sometimes yellowish when dry), pink, or purple (yellow
in M. heterophylla, section Blepharodon, which grows in loose clumps
with stems arising from short rhizomes, 2-3 mm thick, attached to a
woody rootstock; W Nuevo Leon, Mexico) or the heads eradiate (sub-
genus Machaer anther a) 2.
2. Pappus absent from ray florets, or if heads eradiate (M. camosa)
then flowering stems glabrous and glaucous, heads turbinate, and
achenes oblong-fusiform, thin walled with 18-22 filiform nerves . 3.
3. Phyllaries in 2-3(-4) series of often nearly equal length, linear
to lanceolate, 4-8 times as long as wide, the apices narrowly
acute to acuminate; leaves on upper half of plant usually with
entire margins; restricted mostly to grasslands or
forests Section 5. Psilactis
3' PhyUaries in (3-)4-8 graduated series, broadly oblong, usually 2-
4 times as long as wide, the apices broadly acute; leaves on the
upper half of plant usually serrate to deeply lobed (often entire
in M. coulteri from SW Sonora, Mexico); restricted usually to
desert regions Section 4. Arida
2' Pappus present on ray florets (often greatly reduced), or if heads
eradiate (three species, section Blepharodon) then flowering stems
pubescent, heads hemispheric to carapanulate, and achenes broadly
oblong to obovoid, thick walled with 6-16 wide ribs 4.
4. Achenes 3-6 mm long, the waUs thin, flexible, smooth or ob-
scurely nerved, glabrous to sparingly pubescent; pappus 5-8
mm long; leaves never pinnatifid; ray florets always
present Section 3. Hesperastrum
4' Achenes 1.0-3.5 mm long, if greater than 2.5 mm long then the
walls thick and bony, prominently nerved or ribbed, and moder-
ately to densely pubescent; pappus 0.3-8.0 mm long; leaves of-
ten pinnatifid to deeply bipinnatifid; ray florets absent in some
species 5.
5. Plants perennial with branching caudices [Machaer anthera
gymnocephala taprooted, sometimes biennial, root crown
little branched); pappus 3.5-8.0 mm long; receptacle with
scedes 0.3-1.5 mm long; leaves rarely pinnatifid, if with ser-
rate or dentate margins the teeth usually tipped by bristles
1-4 mm long; ray florets absent in three
species Section 2. Blepharodon
