442 PHYTOLOGIA volume 68(6):439-465 June 1990
5' Plants taprooted annuals or short lived perennials (form-
ing vegetative rosettes in Aster blepharophyllus)\ pappus
1.0-6.5 mm long; receptacle naked or essentially so; leaves '
often pinnatifid or bipinnatifid, if with toothed margins the
teeth not terminated by prominent bristles (essentially en-
tire with 8-20 prominent cilia, 0.4-0.8(-1.5) mm long, per
side in A. blepharophyllus)\ ray florets present 6.
6. Leaves entire to laciniate, if deeply pinnatifid {Machaer-
anthera arida, M. parviflora) or bipinnatifid {M. tumen)
then those on the upper parts of the stems less than 1.5
cm long with usually entire lobes; pappus of disc florets
2.5-4.5(-5.0) mm long; achenes thin walled with filiform
nerves Section 4. Arida
6' Leaves deeply pinnatifid or more commonly bipinnati-
fid with irregularly toothed lobes, usually not markedly
reduced above; pappus of disc florets 4.5-6.5 mm long;
achenes thick walled with pronounced nerves or
ribs Section 1. Machaer anther a
V Ray florets yellow, always present; (rhizomes absent) (Subgenus Sideran-
thus) 7.
7. Achenes of disc florets broadly obovate to obscurely and narrowly
cordate, the thick, bony walls with 10-12 prominent ribs, densely
pubescent, the margins thickened; pappus 2-3 mm long, mostly of
subulate, markedly dorsiventraUy flattened bristles; plants annual;
leaves deeply pinnatifid or bipinnatifid; restricted to the mountains
of SW Chihuahua, Mexico Section 8. Stenoloba
7' Achenes of disc florets oblong to narrowly obovate, the usually thin,
flexible walls smooth or with 6-16 obscure ribs, glabrous to mod-
erately pubescent, the margins not thickened; pappus 3.5-7.0 mm
long, of filiform, only slightly flattened bristles; plants annual to
perennial; leaves entire to bipinnatifid; occurring elsewhere 8.
8. Plants taprooted annuals; phyllaries obtuse to broadly acute,
not bristle tipped; leaves serrate or dentate, the teeth blunt or
terminating in a stifl" callosity, not bristle tipped; achenes ob-
long or narrowly elliptic with 12-14 barely discernible nerves,
sparsely pubescent; restricted to the lowlands of SE New Mex-
ico and W Texas Section 7. Havardii
8' Plants perennials with much branched caudices, if taprooted
annuals then phyllaries with narrowly acute to acuminate and
prominently bristle tipped apices; leaves various, if serrate or
dentate, the teeth bristle tipped; achenes elliptic to narrowly
