446 PHYTOLOGIA volume 68(6):439-465 June 1990
poorly developed scales mostly less than 0.3 mm long. Ray florets white to dark
blue or purple. Achenes monomorphic. mostly 3-6 mm long, linear to clavate,
often asymmetrical, often markedly flattened laterally, walls thin, smooth or
obscurely nerved, glabrous to sparingly pubescent. Pappus similar in ray and
disc florets, mostly 5-8 mm long, white or tawny, bristles filiform, not basally
flattened, in 2-3 poorly defined series. Chromosome number, n = 4 (or 5, but
probably based on erroneous counts; see Turner 1987).
In the reconstitution of Machaeranthera by Cronquist & Keck (1957), mem-
bers of this section were treated in series Variabiles. I made no attempt to
provide a taxonomic treatment of this extremely complex section (Hartman
1976). An excellent revision was published by Turner (1987) to which the
reader is referred. He recognized 16 varieties distributed among three species
as opposed to 11 species and 5 varieties listed by Cronquist &: Keck.
4. Machaeranthera section Arida R.L. Hartman, sect. nov. TYPE SPE-
CIES: Machaeranthera arida B. Turner k, D. Home.
Machaeranthera section Psilactis affinis sed phyllariis 4-6 se-
riatis inaequcdibus late oblongis saepe 2-4-plo longioribus quam
latioribus, apicibus late acutis et foliis saepe serratis vel profunde
pinnatisectis differt.
Taprooted annuals or rarely short lived perennials, l-4(-10) dm tall (rhi-
zomatous, forming vegetative rosettes in Aster blepharophyllus) . Leaves entire,
dentate, lacerate to deeply pinnatifid or bipinnatifid. Heads usually radiate.
Involucre depressed hemispheric to turbinate. Phyllaries in 4-8 graduated se-
ries, broadly oblong to lanceolate, lower portion usually stramineous, often
with a midline, upper third to half dark green to purple tinged, often densely
stipitate glandular, usually erect or occasionally spreading to reflexed, usually
obtuse to broadly acute, or in inner series often acuminate, not bristle tipped.
Receptacle indistinctly alveolate, naked or essentially so. Ray florets light
to dark blue (absent from Machaeranthera camosa). Achenes monomorphic,
1.5-2.8(-3.2) mm long, narrowly oblong, only shghtly compressed laterally, the
walls thin with 10-22 flliform nerves, moderately to densely pubescent. Pap-
pus of disc florets 2.5-4.5(-5.0) mm long, white, bristles filiform, not basally
flattened or only slightly so. in 2-3 poorly defined series, those of ray florets
weD developed or lacking. Chromosome number, n = 5.
Three members of section Anda traditionally have been placed in Psilactis
A. Gray. Turner k Home (1964) reduced Psilactis to a section of Machaer-
anthera, in part because the diagnostic feature of Psilactis, i.e. absence of a
pappus on ray florets, segregated in a MendeHan fashion in M. coulteri. Fur-
thermore, they noted the strong morphological resemblance of M. coulteri and
M. anda to M. parviflora. a taxon which was placed with M. tanacetifolia
and M. tagetina'm series Verae by Cronquist k Keck (1957). Machaeranthera
