Hajtma.li: Conspectus of Machaeranthera (Asteraceae: Astereae) 447
parviflora, which constitutes my fourth member of section Artda, would not
have been placed in what had been the genus Psilactis, because of the pappus
on ray florets. Interestingly, plants of this species from Valencia and Bernalillo
counties. New Mexico, N and W to SW Colorado, SE Utah, and E Arizona
have epappose rays.
The four species placed in section Anda are diploid with a chromoso-
mal base of I = 5. synthesize 7-0-glycosides of apigenin and luteolin as leaf
flavonoids, and have phyllaries in 4-6 graduated series, broadly oblongs and
dark green to purple tinged in upper third to half. The five members retained
in section Psilactis are diploid with chromosome numbers of n = 3, 4, or 9,
synthesize 3-0-glycosides of kaempferol and quercetin, and have phyllaries in
2-3 series of nearly equal length or somewhat graduated, linear to narrowly
lanceolate, green, and herbaceous throughout (Hartman 1976).
The following key is based in part on data in Turner (1986) and Nesom
(1990).
1. Ray achenes with prominent pappus (heads eradiate in M. carnosa) . . 2.
2. Leaves entire to toothed 3.
3. Heads eradiate M. carnosa
3' Heads radiate 4.
4. Plants annual; leaf margin entire and glabrous or with 1-
8 teeth/side, each spinulose tipped; involucre hemispheric,
10-16 mm wide; phyllaries linear lanceolate to oblong lance-
olate, narrowly acute to acuminate or
attenuate M. rtpana
A' Plants perennial, rhizomatous, forming vegetative rosettes;
leaf margin essentially entire with 8-20 prominent cilia/side;
involucre turbinate, 5-8 mm wide; phyllaries oblong ovate
to obovate, broadly acute to short acuminate Aster
blepharophyllus
2' Leaves, at least some, pinnatifid to bipinnatifid 5.
5. Receptacle diameter 8-11 mm; phyllary tips spreading to re-
flexed M. tumen
5' Receptacle diameter 2-7 mm; phyllary tips mostly
appressed M. parviflora
1' Ray achenes epappose (except in occasional plants) 6.
6. Mid-stems essentially glabrous or with few sessile glands 7.
7. Leaves deeply pinnatifid; restricted to SW Colorado, N New
Mexico, SE Utah, and E Arizona M. parviflora
