HaxtiD&D: Conspectus of Machaer anther a (Asterace&e: Astereae) 449
"the last time I was there, new parking lot construction had appar-
ently introduced what appeared to be M. anda around the parking
lot and catchment pound below," This may be the case. Alterna-
tively, after studying a number of specimens of M. anda from the
vicinity of the Springs and elsewhere, I hypothesize the following.
In this portion of the geographical range, this tetxon may become
perennial and even have a woody taproot. Upon germination and
during initial flowering, usually in March, the leaves, especially on
the lower half of the plant, are finely pinnatifid and mostly 1.5-4.0
cm long. With time and favorable growing conditions the leaves
which persist, or those on subsequent growth, are merely toothed,
xerophytic in adaptation, and mostly 0.3-1.2 cm long. One plant
(Hartman & Chiang C. 4^66; RM) of M. anda which was culti-
vated for two seasons at the Desert Botanical Garden, Phoenix,
Arizona, with only occasional watering, made this transition.
Reveal k Cronquist (Reveal 1970) considered Machaer anthera
ammophila to be a member of series Vanabiles {= section Hes-
perastrum) and most closely allied to M. leucanthemifolia, even
though it keys to M. parviflora of series Verae (here treated in sec-
tion Anda) in the revision of Machaeranthera hy Cronquist &z Keck
(1957). I have examined the type material and find that it differs in
no important features from M. anda and therefore consider them
conspecific. Apparently, Reveal k Cronquist failed to note the
epappose ray florets which are characteristic of most members of
this section and of section Psilactis.
Machaeranthera coulten (A. Gray) B. Turner & D. Home, Brittonia
16:322. 1964. BASIONYM: Psilactis coulten A. Gray, Mem. Amer.
Acad. Arts, ser. 2, 4:72. 1849. TYPE: MEXICO. Sonora: probably
the vicinity of Guaymas, T. Coulter 295 (HOLOTYPE: GH!).
Machaeranthera cnspa (Brandegee) B. Turner k D. Home, Brittonia
16:321. 1964. BASIONYM: Psikctis crtspa Brandegee. Proc. CaHf.
Acad. Sci., ser. 2, 2:169. 1889. TYPE: MEXICO. Baja CaHfor-
nia Sur: "alkaline soil, San Joaquin, San Ignacio," 1 Apr 1889.
T.S. Brandegee s.n. (HOLOTYPE: UC; Isotypes: GH!. PH [photo,
RM!], US!).
This species was thought to be restricted to the N half of Baja
California Sur, but it is common in W Sonora, Mexico (Hartman
1976). Many of these collections were interpreted by Turner (1986)
as intermediates between Machaeranthera coulten and M. anda.
Based on my circumscription of the teixa, Machaeranthera anda
