Phytologia (June 1990) 68(6):421-427.
NOMENCLATURAL NOTES FOR THE NORTH AMERICAN FLORA. II.
John T. Kartesz & Kancheepuram N. Gandhi
North Carolina Botanical Garden, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,
North Carolina 27599 U.S.A.
ABSTRACT
Continuing with the "Nomenclatural notes for the North American
Flora. I.," a second note in the series toward the advancement of our
understanding of North American plants is presented here.
KEY WORDS: Floristics, nomenclature. North America, Aquifoli-
aceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Polygonaceae, Rosaceae, Sapotaceae.
AQUIFOLIACEAE
In an earlier paper, we (Kartesz k Gandhi 1989) indicated that the name
Ilex amhigua (Michaux) Torr. var. monticola (Gray) Wunderlin h Poppleton
(Florida Scientist 40:10. 1977) was based on /. monticola Gray, a superfluous
name. We also stated that Wunderlin k. Poppleton attributed the name /.
amelanchier M.A. Curtis var. monticola to "(Gray) Wood." This attribution
could have been possible only on the behef that Wood had indeed cited Gray,
however he did not. Hence, no parenthetical author should be cited for Wood's
combination. Since Gray's epithet is superfluous, Gray must also not be cited
as a parenthetical author for Wunderlin k Poppleton's combination. Although
Wood's combination is in the protologue of Wunderlin k Poppleton's article,
since Gray and Wood used two different types, we did not replace Gray's name
by Wood for Wunderlin & Poppleton's varietal name.
After our publication appeared, R.P. Wunderlin informed us that it might
be wise to invoke ICBN Art. 33.2, Ex. 6 and consider the citation of "Gray"
(the parenthetical author for their new combination) as a bibliographical error
for "Wood."
The involvement of two different types poses a problem to accept Wunder-
lin's statement. We brought to his attention that Wunderlin k Poppleton's
protologue of /. am,bigua var. m,onticola does not comment on the superfluous
status of Gray's combination, /. monticola, and was in error in assuming that
421
