206 FIELDIANA: GEOLOGY, VOLUME 33
Baer and W. H. Martin (1949), found some unusually well-preserved
examples near Haymarket and Midland, Virginia. Further collection
at these sites by D. H. Dunkle and S. P. Applegate produced
additional specimens that are now in the United States National
Museum of Natural History and the American Museum of Natural
History. In 1970, W. B. Cornet and N. G. McDonald reopened an
old Loper site at North Guilford, Connecticut, not far from the
Durham locality. A number of exceptionally well-preserved exam-
ples of P. marshi were recovered, along with Semionotus and
various redfieldiids.
Most of the specimens used in this study, from Virginia and
Connecticut, have been prepared by the airbrasive method.
The authors are indebted to Farish A. Jenkins, Jr., Museum of
Comparative Zoology, Harvard College; Keith Thomson, Peabody
Museum of Natural History, Yale University; J. W. Peoples,
Wesleyan University; and Nicholas Hotton, III, United States
National Museum of Natural History, for the loan of specimens
used in this study. They also gratefully acknowledge the helpful
interpretations of European Ptycholepis species provided by Colin
Patterson of the British Museum (Natural History), and Sylvie
Wenz of the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris. They
would like to thank W. B. Cornet for important field data and for
agreeing to the donation of many P. marshi specimens collected by
him and N. G. McDonald to the American Museum of Natural
History. Paul Olsen has kindly provided new locality data on P.
marshi in New Jersey.
The photographs were taken by Chester Tarka, and the
drawings were made by Lorraine Meeker. The specimens used in
this study were prepared by Walter Sorensen, and preliminary
editing of the manuscript was done by Marlyn Mangus.
Abbreviations
AMNH, American Museum of Natural History
BM(NH), British Museum (Natural History)
MCZ, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Havard College
NMNH, United States National Museum of Natural History
WU, Wesleyan University
YPM, Peabody Museum of Natural History, Yale University
