SCHAEFFER ET AL. : PTYCHOLEPIS MARSHI 207
SYSTEMATICS
Order Ptycholepiformes Andrews et al., 1967
Family Ptycholepididae Brough, 1939
Ptycholepis Agassiz, 1832
Ptycholepis Agassiz, 1832, p. 142.
Type species. — Ptycholepis bollensis Agassiz.
Distribution. — Middle Triassic: Italy; Upper Triassic: Austria;
Upper Triassic-?Liassic: Virginia, New Jersey, Connecticut; Lower
Liassic: England; Upper Liassic: Germany, France, England.
Revised generic diagnosis — Body elegantly to deeply fusiform;
snout with nasals separated by postrostral bone; paired
rostropremaxillae in subrostral position, meeting in midline; maxilla
with slight postorbital expansion in articulation with preopercular;
nasal and dermosphenotic in contact above orbit; suborbitals
(known in three species) numerous (8-20), narrow, and overlapping
anterior border of preopercular; preopercular nearly vertical,
broadest at contact with maxilla; suspensorium nearly vertical;
antopercular present; interopercular absent; four to six branchio-
stegals, uppermost twice as wide as others; coronoid process absent;
marginal teeth on maxilla and dentary small, uniform and
acuminate; origin of dorsal fin about midway between snout and
caudal peduncle; rays of dorsal and anal fins completely segmented;
rays of paired fins segmented only distally; only dorsal rays not
bifurcated; caudal fin robust, hemiheterocercal, equilobate and
moderately cleft; all fins (including both lobes of caudal) with
fulcra; scales rhomboidal behind shoulder girdle, elsewhere much
longer than deep, with ganoine arranged in low, longitudinal ridges,
frequently anastomosing; posterior borders of scales notched.
Ptycholepis marshi Newberry, 1878
Type. — AMNH 575, a nearly complete, but poorly preserved,
fish from the Newark Group at the S. W. Loper locality near
Durham, Connecticut.
Distribution. — Upper Triassic-?Liassic Newark Group of
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, and Virginia.
Specific diagnosis. — Differs from other species of Ptycholepis
in having combined maximum width of parietals nearly equal to
length and in having posterolateral corners of parietals extended
posteriorly. Maxilla expanded postorbitally as in P. barboi; median
