SCHAEFFER ET AL.: PTYCHOLEPIS MARSHI 213
as long, and its ventral surface is marked by numerous pits and
foramina that indicate nerve and vascular plexi ventral to the nasal
capsules. The lateral occipital fissure enters the vestibular fonta-
nelle on either side. The ventral otic fissures extend anteriorly and
somewhat medially beyond the fontanelles, but whether they have
a ventromedial junction cannot be determined in this specimen.
The lateral occipital fissure extends dorsally and laterally to the
margins of the braincase as preserved. This fissure has not been
identified dorsally, and the presence or absence of a dorsal posterior
fontanelle cannot be determined. Neither can the presence of a
dorsal anterior fontanelle or the size and characteristics of the fossa
bridgei be demonstrated.
The dorsal aorta was enclosed in a canal in the cranial floor. A
single median anterior opening and a single median posterior
opening are present for the aorta. Openings for the second efferent
branchial arteries are situated about equidistance between the
openings for the aorta. The vagus nerve, as usual, emerged through
the lateral occipital fissure, posterodorsal to the vestibular
fontanelle. A faint groove traverses the wall of the endocranium in
a dorsal direction, slightly anterior to the vagal opening. It is
thought to have accommodated the supratemporal ramus of the
glossopharyngeal nerve. Anteroventrally the groove is aligned with
the rostrocaudal jugular depression and the jugular canal. The
hyomandibular facet is located on the posteroventral surface of the
postorbital process.
The dermal skull (figs. 4, 5, 6) is long and narrow and has a
pronounced rostrum. The suprascapulars are characteristically
lobate. They are not in contact with one another in the mid-dorsal
line: body scales may fill the intervening space. The extrascapulars,
four in number, are quadrangular and are of approximately equal
dimensions. The parietals are rectangular and about half as wide as
long. The frontals are twice as long as the parietals and are rather
irregular in outline. They increase in width from the posterior
border to the point where they are in lateral contact with the
Opposite.—
Fig. 3. Ptycholepis marshi Newberry. Dissociated skull bones. A, AMNH 4817.
B, NMNH 21289. Both xl.6. Abbreviations: dent, dentary; dpt, dermopterotic; dptq,
dermal bones of palatoquadrate; fr, frontal; hym, hyomandibular; io, infraorbital;
mx, maxilla; neu, neurocranium; pa, parietal; pop, preopercular; pros, postrostral;
ptq, palatoquadrate; sbo, suborbital.
