SCHAEFFER ET AL.: PTYCHOLEPIS MARSHI 215
anteromesial edge of the dermopterotic and with the posteromesial
border of the dermosphenotic. The borders of the frontals are
emarginated anteromesially to receive the postrostral; anterolat-
eral^ they are truncated for the nasals. The heavily ornamented
postrostral is a robust bone with a relatively long and narrow
posterior portion and a somewhat shorter, broader, and rounded
anteroventral part. The flanking nasal elements are massive.
Indentations in the lateral margin of the postrostral and in the
anterior and posterior borders of the nasal bones mark the positions
of the anterior and posterior nasal openings. The long crescent-
shaped dermosphenotic is broader posteriorly than anteriorly, where
it is in narrow contact with the nasal. The dermopterotic is in
anteromesial contact with the frontal. It is somewhat longer than
the parietal and is wider anteriorly than posteriorly.
The ovate orbit is about one-third of the total length of the
skull. The mouth is barely subterminal. The mandibular symphysis
is long and the suspensorium is nearly vertical. The ventral and
posterior border of the orbit is formed by four narrow infraorbitals.
The supraorbital bone has a long anteriorly-directed process that
partly excludes the dermosphenotic from the orbital margin. The
anterior infraorbitals articulate anteriorly with paired elements
that are in the same position as the so-called rostro-antorbito-
premaxillae (figs. 4B, 5) of Boreosomus Stensio, 1921 (see Nielsen,
1942, fig. 71). These elements meet in the midline below and behind
the nasals and the postrostral, and they carry several sensory canal
pores. Although they form the anterior upper border of the mouth,
there is no evidence that they bear teeth. Between the infraorbitals
and the preopercular there is a vertical series of narrow bar-like
suborbital bones that vary in number from 7 to 13. The fixed
maxilla has a lobate postorbital expansion. The oral border of the
maxilla is gently curved; it bears a weak internal flange to receive
the palatoquadrate. The mandible is a slender element with a
Opposite.—
Fig. 4. Ptycholepis marshi Newberry. Reconstruction of skull. A, Dorsal aspect.
B, Ventral aspect. C, Lateral aspect. Abbreviations: aop, antopercular; br,
branchiostegal; dent, dentary; dpt, dermopterotic; dsph, dermosphenotic; esc,
extrascapular; fr, frontal; io, infraorbital; lg, lateral gular; mg, median gular; mx,
maxilla; na, nasal; op, opercular; pa, parietal; pop, preopercular; pros, postrostral;
ropmx, rostro-antorbito-premaxilla; sbo, suborbital; so, supraorbital; sop, subopercu-
lar.
