218 FIELDIANA: GEOLOGY, VOLUME 33
straight oral border and a long symphysis. The maxilla and
mandible have a single row of tiny, uniformly -spaced villiform
teeth. The palatoquadrate and the hyomandibular resemble their
counterparts in the European species of Ptycholepis (Brough, 1939;
Wenz, 1967).
The preoperculum is exposed in several specimens. It extends
from the margin of the dermopterotic to the posteroventral
extremity of the maxilla. Its posterior border is gently convex
against the anteriorly concave margins of the antoperculum,
operculum, and suboperculum. The anterior border is covered by
the overlapping suborbitals above and by the posterodorsal border
of the maxilla below. Between the two overlap areas the
preoperculum is produced into a sharp, forwardly-directed spur. A
perusal of the palaeonisciform restorations assembled in Schaeffer
(1973) shows that this preopercular shape is frequently associated
with a nearly vertical suspensorium.
The operculum is slightly deeper than long; it is somewhat
closer in size to the suboperculum than it is in P. bollensis, P. curta,
or P. barboi.
A large median gular extends from the mandibular symphysis
almost to the transverse level of the angular. The lateral gulars are
mostly covered by the median gular. There are six paired
branchiostegal rays; the uppermost one is enlarged to nearly half
the size of the suboperculum.
Ornamentation of the skull bones (figs, 5, 6) consists generally
of wide enameled ridges with narrow interspaced grooves. For the
most part they are rostrocaudally directed. Density of ornamenta-
tion varies from total coarse coverage near centers of ossification to
wide peripheral bare areas. Invariably the ornamentation is coarsest
rostrally, progressively less pronounced posteromesially and
posterolateral^, and weakest ventrolaterally and ventrally.
Determination of the lateral line sensory system of the skull is
dependent on the degree of ornamentation. In some specimens the
course of the supraorbital canal through the nasals and frontals is
indefinable; in others it may be marked by ganoine ridges higher
than, but parallel to, the ornamental ridges, or by discrete pores.
The three pairs of pit lines in the parietals are similarly variably
observable. In some specimens they are well defined, but in others
they may be only partially developed on one side and absent on the
other. In one specimen (AMNH 4812) where the internal face of the
