220 FIELDIANA: GEOLOGY, VOLUME 33
rostroantorbito-premaxilla is exposed, the ethmoidal sensory
commissure can be seen. The preopercular sensory canal internally
parallels the posterior margin of the preopercular bone, but emerges
externally on the median vertical axis. The entire sensory canal
pattern is palaeonisciform.
Scales (fig. 7B) with ganoine-covered ridges are found over the
entire body. They are distinctive in their length-to-height
proportions and ornamentation. They agree in all observable details
with the scales of P. bollensis (Aldinger, 1937). Approximately 50
vertical scale rows (fig. 2) occur between the shoulder girdle and the
caudal inversion. The first two rows have equilateral rhomboidal
scales that are elaborately ornamented with both anteroposterior
and oblique striae. Posteriorly the scales are four times as long as
high. Anteriorly each vertical row includes about 50 scales, but the
number diminishes to about 39 in the region of the anal fin.
The dermal elements of the shoulder girdle are incompletely
known, but they seem to resemble those of P. bollensis (Wenz,
1967). The pectoral fin (fig. 2) consists of about 18 principal rays.
The first of these is very robust, but it is only half as long as the
longest ray. The second and third rays are acuminate and jointed,
but unbifurcated. The fourth ray is the longest. It branches distally,
as do all the succeeding rays. The first four rays are fringed by a
double row of fulcral scales.
The pelvic fins are smaller than the pectorals. They originate
below the fourteenth vertical scale row, and each consists of from
13 to 16 principal rays. They are fringed anteriorly by a double row
of fulcra. The anterior four rays are acuminate and jointed, but not
dichotomized, as are the remainder of the rays. The dorsal fin arises
above the thirteenth vertical scale row. It consists of from 20 to 24
principal rays, of which approximately the first five are nonbranch-
ing and fringed by a double row of fulcra; the remaining rays are
articulated and distally dichotomous. The anal fin is smaller than
the dorsal. It originates beneath the twenty-fifth vertical scale row,
behind the pectoral girdle. It consists of about 14 principal rays.
The anterior four are acuminate and articulated; the remainder are
bifurcated distally. This fin probably also possesses a double row of
fulcra.
The caudal fin is equilobate (fig. 7A). The epichordal lobe
consists of about 20 principal rays, all regularly articulated and
distally dichotomous. The hypochordal lobe is composed of about 30
