222 FIELDIANA: GEOLOGY, VOLUME 33
principal rays. The anteroventral rays are acuminate and jointed,
but not dichotomized. The borders of both the epichordal and
hypochordal lobe are fringed by a double row of fulcral scales.
Discussion. — Before considering the relationships of P. marshi,
it will be helpful to reconsider the affinities of the genus Ptycholepis
in terms of its presumed shared derived characters, and to discuss
the status of the seven other currently recognized species in terms
of both shared and unique derived characters.
On the basis of "characters-shared-in-common," Aldinger (1937)
and Brough (1939) independently concluded that Ptycholepis is
related to the palaeonisciform genus Boreosomus, and, in fact, that
the latter is ancestral to the former. Following a detailed re-
examination of P. bollensis, Wenz (1959, 1967) listed the following
characters shared by Boreosomus and Ptycholepis: (1) completely
ossified neurocranium of palaeonisciform type; (2) dermal bone
pattern of cranial roof; (3) rostral (snout) pattern; (4) large orbit;
(5) numerous suborbitals; (6) antopercular (dermohyal) present; (7)
preopercular (sometimes) divided horizontally into two separate
components; (8) mandible elongated, extending to front of snout,
with mandibular canal clearly curved anteriorly; (9) hyomandibular
with large opercular process and without a canal for the
hyomandibular branch of the facial nerve; (10) palatoquadrate of
the palaeonisciform type; (11) cranial dermal bones and scales
strongly ornamented.
Wenz went on to list other Ptycholepis characters not shared
with Boreosomus: (12) hyomandibular facet on braincase horizon-
tal; (13) vertical preopercular with preopercular canal along
anterior border; dorsal part occasionally covered by suborbital
bones extending to anterior border of antopercular; (14) maxilla
with no (or slight) postorbital expansion; (15) wide proximal
hypurals; (16) hemiheterocercal tail; (17) fin rays equal in number
to basals, small in number, robust and bifurcated distally.
Many of the resemblances and differences between Boreosomus
and Ptycholepis that Wenz noted had previously been discussed by
Aldinger (1937) and Brough (1939), who made additional comments
on the opercular series, the fins, and scales.
It is now important to decide which character states previously
considered to relate Boreosomus and Ptycholepis are primitive
palaeonisciform ones. We regard the resemblances listed under (1),
(2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (10), and perhaps (9) as primitive shared
