SCHAEFFER ET AL.: PTYCHOLEPIS MARSHI 223
character states that are of no value in postulating relationships. Of
the characters that Ptycholepis does not share with Boreosomus,
(12), (13), and (14) are involved in the nearly vertical suspenso-
rium— a condition that certainly evolved numerous times indepen-
dently among the early chondrosteans. The other unshared
characters, (15), (16), and (17), are characteristic of several
presumably unrelated subholostean groups.
The suborbital series has been described for three of the eight
species of Ptycholepis. P. marshi has 7 to 13 of these elements.
Although Brough (1939) figured four suborbitals for P. curta
Egerton (from the Lower Lias of Dorsetshire), one specimen
(BMNH 39493) actually has about 20 {fide Sylvie Wenz and C.
Patterson). The type species of Ptycholepis, P. bollensis (from the
Upper Lias of Bavaria, Yorkshire, and Yonne), has 7 to 13
suborbitals, according to Wenz (1967), rather than two, as
illustrated by Gardiner (1960). It seems probable, however, that the
primitive suborbital number for the palaeonisciforms was about two
(Schaeffer, 1973). The high number in Boreosomus, P. marshi, P.
curta, and P. bollensis may therefore be regarded as a derived
condition. Unfortunately, the cheek elements are unknown in the
other species of Ptycholepis.
The large opercular process on the hyomandibular noted by
Wenz (1967) for P. bollensis and Boreosomus is also present in P.
barboi Bassani (1939) and P. marshi. A robust opercular process is
perhaps a derived condition, but our knowledge of the
palaeonisciform hyomandibular is too incomplete to propose that
such a process is shared by only these two genera.
The type of dermal bone ornamentation characteristic of
Ptycholepis is also known in Boreosomus (Nielsen, 1949) and in
various other palaeonisciforms, such as Moythomasia Gross (Jessen,
1968). It probably has little diagnostic significance except at low
taxonomic levels where details of the ornamentation pattern may
be derived and unique. Most specimens of P. marshi from Virginia
and Connecticut have the typical heavy ribbing on all the dermal
elements except the gulars. However, about 10 per cent of the
specimens from both areas have very sparse sculpturing over the
entire dermal skull. Because of this distinctive difference in
ornamentation, we have considered the desirability of recognizing
two species from the Newark Group. However, there is at least one
specimen (AMNH 4812) from Midland, Virginia, that shows a more
or less intermediate condition between heavy and sparse ornamen-
