224 FIELDIANA: GEOLOGY, VOLUME 33
tation. Ornamentation expression is definitely not growth related,
and because of the high frequency of strong ribbing, there is no
basis for assuming that the differences represent sexual dimorphism.
A reasonable explanation is that the Newark Group has a single
species of Ptycholepis and that the more or less discontinuous
expression of the ornamentation is an example of polymorphism
(sensu Mayr, 1963) that is skewed, for some reason, toward greatest
ornamentation density.
The characteristic narrow flank scales of Ptycholepis always
have two to four wide, ganoine-covered ridges separated by much
narrower grooves. The ridges usually anastomose near the free edge
of the scale, which tends to be notched (denticulated). Boreosomus
has much deeper scales with more numerous and more delicate
oblique ganoine ridges. The free edge of the scale is also
denticulated. In cross-section the ridges of both Ptycholepis and
Boreosomus are seen to be composed of successive layers (gener-
ations) of enameloid separated by elevations of dentin that rise
above the common dentin layer and form the floor of the grooves
(see Aldinger, 1937, figs. 87, 88, 89). This histological pattern also
occurs in other palaeonisciforms with similar scale ornamentation,
e.g., Acrolepis Agassiz, Acropholis Aldinger, Plegmolepis Aldinger,
and Boreolepis Aldinger. Apparent differences and resemblances in
other aspects of the scale fine structure, such as the dentine canals,
are difficult to assess. If we assume that the primitive state was one
in which the enameloid and dentine layers were more or less
continuous in cross section, with the horizontal and vertical canals
arranged in irregular fashion, then the regular arrangement of these
canals in Ptycholepis may be regarded as a derived condition.
Although the scale architecture of Boreosomus resembles that of
Ptycholepis, the resemblance is not exclusive.
Unequivocal, unique derived character states for Ptycholepis
are few. In regard to the dermal skull pattern, the absence of a
median rostral, the relatively long frontals and dermosphenotics,
and the modifications in the cheek related to the vertical
suspensorium are by no means unique to Ptycholepis and
presumably evolved several times independently in other
palaeonisciform groups. The numerous narrow bar-like suborbitals
in P. marshi, P. bollensis, and P. curta may represent a unique
derived condition for the genus. The suborbitals are narrower, more
elongate, and more numerous in these species than in Boreosomus.
The ornamentation of the dermal bones, when strong, as in P.
