SCHAEFFER ET AL.: PTYCHOLEPIS MARSHI 225
bollensis, P. curta, and most specimens of P. marshi, is a useful, but
inconstant, recognition character that, again, is not unique to this
genus.
The squamation is perhaps the most distinctive feature of
Ptycholepis. The shape of the individual scales, their digitate
posterior borders, and their few strong ganoine-covered anteropos-
terior ridges constitute, in our opinion, a unique derived character
state (see Aldinger, 1937, fig. 85). The enlarged dorsal branchiosteg-
al also fits into this category.
The systematic treatment of Ptycholepis obviously poses
problems that cannot readily be resolved. We have emphasized the
taxonomic isolation of this genus (which Andrews et al., 1967
implied in their recognition of the order Ptycholepiformes) by
noting that many of the character states that Ptycholepis shares
with other palaeonisciforms are primitive palaeonisciform ones,
while others may be due to parallelism (e.g., those related to the
vertical suspensorium ). The alternate hypothesis, which seems less
parsimonius, would favor regarding Ptycholepis and Boreosomus as
sister taxa.
The relationships of P. marshi to the other species of
Ptycholepis are difficult to ascertain on the basis of available
information. Unique or shared derived character states for each of
the recognized species are rarely evident from the published
descriptions, and a revision of the entire genus is obviously
necessary. The problems involved are familiar ones to anybody
using the cladistic strategy for hypothesizing relationships within a
group of extinct fishes.
A brief review of the species can begin with P. barboi Bassani
(Ladinian of the south Tessin). The "distinctive" characters of this
incompletely known species listed by Brough (1939, pp. 65-66) are
either primitive palaeonisciform ones or are common to most or all
species in the genus. We have found no unique derived character
states to distinguish this species from the others. P. avus Kner
(Carnian, Austria) remains essentially undescribed in spite of some
comments by Woodward (1895, pp. 323-324). P. minor Egerton
(Lower Lias, Leicestershire) is described by Woodward (1895, p. 323)
as having feeble ornamentation on the dermal skull, but the species
is not otherwise distinguished. P. monilifer Woodward (Lower Lias,
Dorsetshire) is discussed in some detail by Woodward (1895, pp.
322-323), and later by Gardiner (1960, pp. 261-264), but aside from
