226 FIELDIANA: GEOLOGY, VOLUME 33
being designated as the "largest known species," there are no
discernible unique derived features. P. curta Egerton (Lower Lias,
Dorsetshire), as redescribed by Brough (1939) and supplemented by
some observations of Wenz (1967) and Patterson (pers. comm.) may
have several unique conditions, including relatively small parietals
along with elongate and posteriorly acuminate dermopterotics. A
specimen (BMNH 39493) in the British Museum (Natural History)
has about 20 narrow suborbitals that overlap only the anterior
border of the preopercular. Accordingly, Brough's (1939) illustra-
tions of this specimen should be revised so that the cheek area
resembles that of P. bollensis (Wenz, 1967). P. gracilis Davis
(Lower Lias, Dorsetshire) remains practically indeterminate in spite
of Woodward's (1895, p. 320) comment that the scales differ from
the anterior overlapped border." P. bollensis Agassiz (Lower Lias,
Yonne), the type species, has been redescribed and figured by Wenz
(1959, 1967). Again, there is the problem of recognizing unique
derived character states. Possibly the extreme reduction of the body
axis in the caudal fin may be restricted to this species.
The distribution of Ptycholepis during the Middle and Late
Triassic and the Liassic can be readily understood in terms of the
Tethys Sea and the continental seaways in existence before drift
was initiated. Ptycholepis was a marine form that, for some reason,
got into several of the Newark basins rather late in their history.
GEOLOGIC OCCURRENCE
The Newark Group of eastern North America is a gently folded
and highly faulted sequence of continental and perhaps transitional
marine sedimentary rocks, sheets of basaltic lava and diabase
intrusives of Late Triassic and possibly Early Jurassic age. The
rocks occur in a series of separate basins extending from Nova
Scotia to South Carolina. Fossil fishes have been found in most of
the basins, but they are particularly abundant in the Connecticut
Valley and from New Jersey to Virginia.
In apparent contrast to the abundance and widespread
occurrence of semionotids and redfieldiids in the Newark, P. marshi
is numerically limited and stratigraphically restricted. Initially
described by Newberry (1878, 1888) and Loper (1891) from two
localities in the Connecticut Valley, P. marshi was not recorded
elsewhere until recent decades. At present P. marshi is known from
three widely-separated regions: the Connecticut Valley, the
