SCHAEFFER ET AL.: PTYCHOLEPIS MARSHI 227
Northern part of the New Jersey basin, and the Midland, Virginia,
area.
Throughout most of the Connecticut Valley the Newark Group
is composed of several distinct stratigraphic units: (1) a basal
sequence dominated by red and gray arkose and conglomerate, with
minor beds of siltstone and shale (New Haven Arkose); (2) a middle
series of three basaltic lava formations separated by red and gray
siltstone, shale, and coarse clastic rocks (Shuttle Meadow and East
Berlin formations); and (3) an upper unit composed of coarse clastic
rocks and varying amounts of red and gray shale (Portland Arkose).
With a few exceptions fossil fishes in the Connecticut Valley are
confined to thin layers of dark gray to black shale and limestone in
the Shuttle Meadow and East Berlin formations. The absence of
fishes in the red beds probably reflects inadequate conditions for
preservation. The fossiliferous exposures may represent parts of one
or two widespread black shale layers repeated by faulting, or they
may be separate and distinct local horizons. Studies by Davis and
Loper (1891) and recently by Byrnes (pers. comm.) have indicated
that some black shale horizons do occur at approximately the same
stratigraphic position and are, in fact, repeated by faulting. Other
black shales, however, are unique to certain sections and cannot be
traced or found in equivalent stratigraphic sections.
Although numerous exposures of fossiliferous strata occur in
Connecticut and Massachusetts, P. marshi has been recorded from
only three localities— all in the lower portions of the Shuttle
Meadow Formation. At two of these, the Durham and Bluff Head
sites (both south of the town of Durham, Connecticut), equivalent
units of black shale and limestone are exposed in stream beds.
Historically, the Durham locality is the most famous fossil fish
locality in the Connecticut Valley and was extensively worked by
Davis and Loper (1891), Eastman (1911), and others during the last
century. Hundreds of plant remains, redfieldiids, semionotids, and a
few examples of P. marshi and Diplurus were obtained in the years
of intensive collecting. The fossiliferous limy black shale sequence
at Durham is approximately 2 ft. thick and outcrops along with
largely unfossiliferous thin limestone and micaceous gray shale.
Stratigraphically the shale occurs at an estimated 200 ft. above the
lava of the Talcott Formation. The rock is extremely black, dense,
and hard, and it contains appreciable amounts of carbonate. It is
well laminated and extremely brittle; it can be split easily into
plates one-quarter to one-half inch thick. The Durham fishes are
