228 FIELDIANA: GEOLOGY, VOLUME 33
usually well preserved, but it is often difficult to extract them in
one piece. The beds at Durham are now largely covered over or
have been removed, but there are large scrap piles of black shale in
the immediate area.
Less than a mile northeast of the Durham locality, the
fossiliferous black shale of the Shuttle Meadow is again exposed in a
shallow stream bed. This site was discovered by Loper (1891) and
was given the name "Bluff Head"; but for reasons unknown the
locality remained unworked until recent years. The shale layers at
Bluff Head are variably weathered— some parts crumble at a touch,
others are hard and dense, like the Durham beds. The unweathered
shale is dark gray to black and is very platy. The upper part of the
exposure is composed of highly organic micaceous shale with
occasional lenses of clay; the lower part is characterized by
rhythmically bedded limy, carbonaceous shale. The entire unit is
approximately 3 ft. thick and grades into a buff-brown, medium-
grained quartz sandstone above. It is underlain by a light brown to
white kaolinite bed. The remainder of the formation consists mainly
of red siltstone and shale. The weathered shale at Bluff Head
permits the removal of complete fishes. There is an extremely high
concentration of fishes at this locality, and the majority are well
preserved. Some 30 specimens of P. marshi have been recovered to
date, along with well over 2,000 redfieldiids and semionotids and a
single specimen of Diplurus cf. longicaudatus.
Recently a small number of P. marshi remains was obtained
from a relatively fresh road cut on the northeast corner of Mt.
Tom, near North Hampden, Massachusetts. A thick stratigraphic
section of the Holyoke and presumed Shuttle Meadow formations is
exposed. 1 P. marshi fragments, as well as more numerous
semionotid and redfieldiid remains, were recovered from a well-
bedded, 2 ft. thick layer of gray-black calcareous siltstone, roughly
300 ft. below the base of the Holyoke Basalt. Much of the rest of
the Shuttle Meadow Formation in this exposure consists of coarse
red conglomerate and finer-grained redbeds.
The fishes from Mt. Tom frequently occur in small calcareous
nodules and are generally dissociated. The rock is very brittle and
dense, but the specimens are usually well preserved. The specimens
of P. marshi from this locality are the first and only examples
'The Talcott Basalt is absent in this area. The sedimentary beds at Mt. Tom are
presumably equivalent to the Shuttle Meadow Formation.
