SCHAEFFER ET AL. : PTYCHOLEPIS MARSHI 229
found in the northern two-thirds of the Connecticut Valley, and the
only ones collected from the Massachusetts Newark.
Until a few years ago there were no recorded discoveries of P.
marshi from the New Jersey basin, despite the high concentration
and widespread occurrence of other fishes (particularly semionotids
and redfieldiids). Nevertheless, recent field work has resulted in the
discovery of P. marshi in three north-central New Jersey localities.
These three localities all occur in the middle and upper portions of
the Brunswick Formation, stratigraphically the youngest formation
in the New Jersey basin. However, P. marshi is rare in New Jersey:
the total number of specimens recovered is fewer than ten, and
identification of most specimens is based on isolated scales or skull
bones. A single complete specimen from Boonton, New Jersey, was
recently found in the collection at Peabody Museum, Yale
University (Schaeffer, 1952, indicated that the Boonton fishes occur
in a black shale bed near the top of the Brunswick). The shale at
Boonton has also yielded vast numbers of other fishes, notably
semionotids. The two remaining New Jersey localities are in the
thin dark shale sequences underlying the Second Watchung Basalt
near the towns of Watchung and Martinsville (Olsen, pers. comm.).
Here P. marshi is represented only by small patches of isolated
scales and bones. None has yet been recorded from the sedimentary
sections below the First Watchung Basalt.
Applegate (1956) noted that fishes have been found at several
Newark localities in the Culpepper, Richmond, Farmville, and
Danville basins of Virginia. Despite the common occurrence of fossil
fishes, P. marshi has been recovered only from the Culpepper basin,
near the towns of Midland (Fauquier County) and
Haymarket (Prince William County). The fishes at Midland occur
in a 2-ft. thick bed of dark gray, well-laminated silty shale and
associated carbonaceous limestone that is part of a thick sequence
of red and brown sandstone. At Haymarket the fossiliferous beds
are a light buff, soft siltstone. Both sections are presumably in the
lower portion of the Bull Run Shale (Baer and Martin, 1949).
If one views the overall distribution of P. marshi in the Newark
basins, three significant facts emerge: (1) P. marshi is usually a
minor constituent of the total fish fauna (the only possible
exception is the Midland assemblage); (2) it occurs locally and
irregularly in geographically separated regions; and (3) it appears to
be restricted to certain stratigraphic horizons (the lower Shuttle
Meadow Formation in the Connecticut Valley, the middle and
