230 FIELDIANA: GEOLOGY, VOLUME 33
upper Brunswick Formation in New Jersey, and the lower Bull Run
Shale in Virginia).
Since all of the European species of Ptycholepis are known only
from marine deposits, it is suggested that P. marshi did not inhabit
an exclusively fresh-water habitat. It is possible that it was
euryhaline, and, as Schaeffer (1967) suggested, entered the Newark
lowlands from the sea. Although P. marshi is geographically and
stratigraphically restricted in the Newark basins, it occurs in
sufficient concentrations at Midland, Durham, and Bluff Head to
effectively rule out random introduction.
There is little doubt that many Newark sequences are
terrestrial in origin, but perhaps others were transitional or even
coastal marine. Byrnes (1974) and Byrnes and Home (1974), in a
detailed study of the Connecticut Valley Newark lithology and
sedimentology, concluded that the rocks reflect several depositional
environments, including alluvial fan, fluvial, deltaic, and tidal flat.
It is reasonable to assume that marine fishes could have inhabited
some of these environments, as could have certain fresh-water
forms. The problem of the Newark environment cannot be solved
by the occurence of P. marshi, but the fact that no other species of
Ptycholepis is known from fresh-water deposits must somehow be
taken into account.
The correlation of rock sequences in the different Newark
basins is difficult, as is the geochronology of the group as a whole,
because of the absences of both invertebrate and vertebrate index
fossils and because of the recurrence of lava flows, 1 fossiliferous
dark shale units, red beds and conglomerates in geographically
separated basins. Despite these obstacles, most investigators have
assumed the entire Newark Group to be Upper Triassic (Carnian-
Norian) in age (see Andrews et al., 1967). This assumption may
prove to be not totally accurate, as evidenced by recent
paleobotanical and palynological studies by Cornet et al. (1973).
These authors concluded that the time-stratigraphic range of the
Newark Group is greater than previously believed. In a preliminary
comparison of newly-discovered Newark palynoflorules with those
•Sanders (1963), in field studies of the Talcott Formation, and de Boer (1968),
through paleomagnetic studies, have convincingly demonstrated that the lava
complexes in New Jersey and in the Connecticut Valley are not stratigraphic
equivalents in the manner proposed by Russell (1878) and other workers. The flows
do, however, seem to represent a relatively limited period of vulcanism in Newark
history.
