ABT. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 15
In connection with the various appendages it may be noted that
their musculature varies according to their importance and function.
For the first antennae there are only a few weak muscles, except in
Eudactylina^ where the basal joints are prehensile and need strong
muscles. The second antennae are supplied with powerful muscles ;
in addition to the long dorsal ones already mentioned there are
smaller ones on the ventral surface of the head and others within
the joints; those which flex the claw of the chela are especially well
developed. In Ergasilina, Kr0yeria^ and Congericola the muscula-
ture of the second antennae is even better developed than in Dicheles-
tMum.
For the mouth tube there is a pair of flexors and a pair of exten.-
sors, both originating on the ventral surface of the head. The
muscles connected with the mandibles are weak; in Lernanthro'pus
Heider considered it more or less doubtful if there was any muscle
running to the mandibles. There are none connected with the first
maxillae in any of the species examined by the present author and
none have been mentioned by any investigator. In connection with
the second maxillae in Dichelesthium there are three pairs of muscle
bands, originating on the dorsal surface and running to the basal
joint of the appendages. One of each pair originates outside and
the other inside of the long muscle going to the second antennae.
In Kr0yeria^ Nemesis^ and Donusa the second maxillae are well
developed and demand a good muscle supply.
The maxillipeds in all the genera are powerful prehensile organs
but they are exceptionally developed in Eudactylina^ Ne^nesis,
LevTianthropus^ and C'yhicola. In the two former they are true
chelae and in the two latter the terminal claw is toothed. The basal
joint of these appendages in each of these genera is filled with strong
flexors and extensors, which control the movements of the terminal
claw or chela.
The usual muscles are found in connection with the swimming
legs in all the genera, but when the legs are reduced to a single
ramus, as in DichelestMurti, Pseudoclavella^ and Ergasilina^ or to
mere papillae bearing setae, as in Pseudocycjius and Cyhicola, or
wholly disappear, as in Hatschekia^ Caetrodes^ and Norion^ we find
a corresponding reduction or disappearance in the musculature.
Those genera like LevTianthro'pus^ Anthosovia, and SaguTTi, in which
the swimming legs have been transformed into laminae, show con-
siderable musculature. In Lemanthropus gisleri^ for example, the
first pair of laminae (third legs) show finely branched muscles
whose fibers form a definite network over the entire lamina. In other
species also the muscles oi ten run to the very end of the lamina.
In connection with the rectum most genera show the dilator
muscles which serve in rectal respiration.
