16 PROCEEDIiSrGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60
Tlie dorsoventral muscles are chiefly isolated bundles along the
sides of the thorax and genital segment, which assist in the passage
of the eggs along the oviducts.
Digestive canal. — The general form and position of the digestive
canal have already been stated. In Lemanthro'pus the esophagus
passes inward and backward straight to the ventral surface of the
stomach, which it enters close to the anterior end. In Nemesis and
DichelesthiuTn there is a sharp bend or flexure in the esophagus,
the outer three-fifths pointing forward and the inner two-fifths
backward, but it enters the ventral surface of the stomach at
the same place, close to the anterior end (fig, 71). The digestive
tube is widened considerably in the head, then is narrowed through
the thorax and is abruptly contracted in the abdomen. The length
of the widened or stomach portion varies greatly in different genera.
In Lemanthro'pus and DichelesthiuTn the enlarged portion runs
through the entire body, remaining about the same diameter, and
is abruptly narrowed to the rectum on entering the abdomen. In
Hatschekia^ Eudactylina^ and Lamproglena the widened portion
begins to narrow somewhere in the thorax, and from there tapers
gi-adually to the anus. There is no definite place where it can be
said that one part ends and another begins. In Nemesis the intestine
retains its wide diameter through the fourth thorax segment and
is then rather abruptly narrowed in the fifth segment, after which
it tapers gradually to the anus without any definite rectum. In
Congerlcola., Kr0yeria, and Cyhicola the stomach narrows into
the intestine at the posterior margin of the head, remains narrow
through the free thorax segments, and then widens again in the
fused posterior body. The walls of the digestive tube contain both
longitudinal and transverse muscles, and by their rhythmic con-
traction and relaxation peristaltic movements run backwards and
forwards over the entire canal. By this means the canal contents
are pushed back and forth, a portion being thoroughly digested while
the rest is excreted.
The epithelium in the esophagus and rectum is thin, and is made
up of smaller cells nearly uniform in size. In the enlarged portions
the epithelium is considerably thicker, and, especially in the anterior
stomach, contains many digestive cells, which are much larger than
the rest of the epithelial cells (fig. 68).
Female reproductive system. — In the females of some genera like
Eatschehia^ Lemanthropus.^ Peniculisa^ Eudactylina^ Pseudocycnus^
etc., the ovaries are situated in the anterior thorax or the anterior part
of the fused posterior body. In other genera like Nemesis., Dicheles-
thiu7n, etc., the ovaries are in the posterior part of the head, directly
above the stomach. The oviducts lead from the anterior ends of the
ovaries outward, downward, and backward, and are convoluted to
