ART. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 17
the right and left in the space between the digestive tube and the
lateral walls of the body.
The ovaries are covered with a thick connective tissue coat, inside
of which are the egg glands twisted into many folds and windings.
The eggs pass forward in the ovary and gradually increase in size;
on entering the oviduct they increase more rapidly and attain their
maximum within the first conA^olution. They are then scattered
throughout the rest of the oviduct without any order and are not
flattened at all. In this they present a strong contrast to the Ler-
naeidae, whose eggs are arranged in a single row like flattened coins
and in a straight oviduct without convolutions.
The cement glands are elongated and cylindrical or club-shaped.
In Lemanthro'pus the cement glands are club-shaped and lie above the
oviducts on either side of the intestine and close to its dorsal wall.
They reach forward to the first convolution of the oviduct in the third
thoracic segment. The glandular portion includes practically the
whole of the organ but is unsegmented, while the ducts are very short
and open into the oviduct close to the vulvae. In Eudactylina the
glands are similarly situated but extend forward only to the fifth
thoracic segment and the club-shaped glandular portion is distinctly
segmented (fig. 76). In Hatschekia, Dichelesthium^ and Pseudocyc-
Qius the cement glands are slender cylinders, ventral to the oviducts
and unsegmented (fig. 89).
The semen receptacles vary in size and shape, as well as position.
In Lei'^anthroyiis they are ventral to the intestine, elongate, and club-
shaped, and they reach forward nearly as far as the cement glands.
In Dichelesthiuin and Pseudocycrius they are short and triangular, on
the ventral surface of the body cavity, the pointed end anterior, the
posterior margin three-lobed. The receptacle opens into the oviduct
on either side close to the vulva (fig. 89).
Male 7'eproductive system. — The situation of the testes corre-
sponds to that of the ovaries; in some genera. they are in the anterior
portion of the thorax or of the fused posterior body, and in other
genera in the posterior portion of the cephalo thorax. Similarly also
the sperm ducts are given off from the anterior ends of the testes
and pass downward, outward, and backward in more or less intricate
convolutions along the sides of the thorax. In Lemanthro'pus they
first turn inward and backward along the dorsal surface of the in-
testine as far as the genital segment, where they almost come to-
gether on the midline. They then make a complete turn and run
forward again alongside of and close to the first fold to a point op-
posite the anterior end of the testes. They now turn outward, down-
ward, and backward along the sides of thorax, sending convolutions
into the bases of the modified third and fourth legs, and then turn for-
ward to the anterior ends of the spermatophore receptacles (fig. 37).
