18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60
Posteriori}' the walls of the ducts are thickened and serve as glands
for the secretion of the cement substance which forms the walls of
the spermatophores. In Dichelesthium^ Nemesis^ and Eudactylina
the general course of the ducts is the same, but the first long fold is
omitted and there are not as many convolutions.
Inside the spermatophore receptacles the sperms are gathered into
the spermatophores, which are afterward attached to the females.
These spermatophores are ellipsoidal and in Lernanthropus the ends
of the discharging tubes, where they are applied to the vulvae of the
female, are swollen into large brown spherical receptacles, which
remain in place on the vulvae long after the spermatophore itself
has disappeared (fig. 104). In Dichelesthium the spermatophores
are narrower ellipsoids and are attached side by side on the midline
of the abdomen close to the genital segment. Their discharge tubes
then cross each other and enter the vulva on the opposite side.
Nervcnis system: — The nervous system includes first a supra- and
an infra-esophageal ganglion. The former takes more or less the
shape of a flattened cone, and from the anterior end nerves are sent
to the first and second antennfe and the anterior part of the head.
The pair running to the first antennae originate close together at the
center of the anterior end of the ganglion in Lernanthropus ; they are
apparently fused into a single strand for some distance, then separate
and enter the base of each antenna. In Dichelesthium they originate
at the corners of the anterior end and are divergent. Outside of this
first pair arises another nerve on either side which goes to the second
antenna. The infraesophageal ganglion is considerably elongated
and tapers gradually backward into the ventral nerve trunk. From
it branches extend to the mouth parts, the swimming legs, and the re-
productive organs.
The ventral nerve trunk runs back to the fifth thoracic segment
and there divides, the two branches separating a little and continuing
through the fifth and genital segments. From the ventral trunk
branches are given off to the various muscles of the thorax, and from
the two posterior branches of the trunk itself are supplied the nerves
leading to the muscles controlling the vulvae and semen receptacle in
the female, and the spermatophore receptacles and ejaculatory ducts
in the male. They also control the dilator muscles of the rectum
during respiration (see fig. 71).
Vascular system. — Since only a single genus. Lernanthropus^ pos-
sesses anything in the way of a vascular system, the description of it
is reserved for that genus alone. In other genera circulation is
accomplished by means of the peristaltic movements of the digestive
canal together with those concerned in rectal breathing. In most
genera, however, there is very little movement of the fluid contents
of the body cavity.
