24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60
a sand shark, Carcharias Ufforalis, at Woods Hole was taken by Dr.
Edwin Linton and has been given Cat. No. 53570, U.S.N.M. Two
females and a male from the mouth of a mackerel shark, I sums oxy-
rhynchus^ were taken June 17, 1888, by Vinal Edwards at Woods
Hole and have been given Cat. No. 53571, U.S.N.M.
Specific characters of female. — In addition to what has just been '
given under the generic characters we may note the following : The
carapace covering the cephalothorax is yellowish broAvn, deeper in
color through the center and paling towards the margins. The
antennal area is separated from the rest of the head by well-defined
marginal invaginations and by a somewhat indistinct dorsal groove.
In the larger and more mature females there is usually in invagination
at the center of the posterior margin of the carapace, sometimes ex-
tending quite a distance as a triangular slit. In younger females
and sometimes in older ones the margin is entire. The carapace
projects backward over the free thorax and overlaps the genital
segment. On the dorsal surface of the fourth segment is a pair of
large elytra which entirely cover the posterior part of the body and
overlap along the median line. These are white in color like the
membraneous legs and are similarly covered with minute trans-
parent dots or depressions.
The genital segment is oblong with nearly parallel margins, the
proportion of the length to the width being as 4 to 3. The egg strings
are attached to its posterior margin, considerably below the dorsal
surface, side by side on the median line.
The abdomen is attached to the ventral surface of the genital seg-
ment below and in front of the bases of the egg strings. It is made
up of a single small joint. The anal laminae are thick and fleshy,
much longer than the abdomen itself, and they taper to a blunt point.
They are entirely destitute of setae and spines.
The first antennae are rather long, seven- jointed, thickest through
the tip of the third joint, and thence tapering gradually. Below and
behind the basal joint of each antenna, and filling the marginal notch
in the carapace, is a thick triangular process or palp. Wlien the an-
tenna is folded back against the carapace this process is nearly con-
cealed, but it stands out prominently if the antenna be turned forward
at right angles to the body axis. The joints of these antennae are only
sparingly supplied with setae. The second antennae are transformed
into strong attachment organs. They are three- jointed, the basal
joint much swollen, the second joint narrowed distally and armed
on the ventral surface with a stout peg so placed as to interlock with
the tip of the terminal claw. The latter is short and is bent into a half
circle.
The upper and under lips are fused and produced into a long, stout
and bluntly rounded mouth tube. At its base on either side are
