A-RT.5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 25
the first maxillae, which are slender, conical, about three-fourths as
long as the mouth tube, each tipped with two long setae. The palp is
short, conical, and tipped with two spines of unequal length.
The second maxillae are peculiar; the two basal joints are much
swollen and rather short; the third joint is abruptly narrowed to half
the width of the second, but is much longer. It is enlarged and almost
squarely truncated at the distal end, produced into a conical process
on the outer margin, and surrounded with a fringe of short spines.
The fourth joint is hemispherical and is attached to the inner margin
of the tip of the third joint. The flat side is turned outward and is
surrounded with a fringe of short spines.
The maxillipeds are large, very stout, and furnished with a power-
ful terminal claw. There are three pairs of swimming legs, each
transformed into a broad and thin lamella, covered with numerous
minute transparent dots. Each leg of the two anterior pairs is
notched on the inner margin, but does not show any rami ; the margin
of the third legs is entire.
Color. — Carapace dark brown at the center, paler and yellowish
toward the edges; dorsal elytra and foliaceous legs gray- white, cov-
ered with minute transparent spots ; free thorax, genital segment, and
abdomen dark yellowish brown.
Total length, 10-15 mm.; carapace, 9.50 mm. long, 7 mm. wide;
combined diameter of foliaceous legs, 10-11 mm. ; egg strings, 40-50
mm. long.
Specific characters of male. — While the male resembles the female
in size and general appearance, it also differs in several important
particulars. The carapace is relatively longer and narrower and is
similarly notched at the center of the posterior margin. The antennal
area is only half as long as wide. There are no dorsal elytra on the
fourth segment, so that the entire body behind the carapace is visible
in dorsal view, but is covered ventrally as in the female by the folia-
ceous legs.
Each leg of the first two pairs is notched on the inner margin and
carries in the notch a pair of distinct, though rudimentary, one-
jointed rami. The appendages are practically the same as those of the
female, the second antennae and maxillipeds being a little larger.
Color the same as that of the female, but appearing darker because
of the absence of the dorsal elytra.
Total length, 8-10 mm. Carapace, 6 mm. long, 4.15 mm. wide.
Combined diameter of foliaceous legs, 4 mm.
Remarks. — This shark parasite is very widely distributed and has
been found upon several other kinds of sharks besides those here
mentioned. It never occurs in any numbers on a host, but is more
often solitary, although occasionally the two sexes are associated upon
the same fish. Its favorite location is in the throat of the shark,
