AKT.B. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 27
(p. 352) Tucca was shown to be an Ergasilid, and Norion is just as
certainly a Dichelesthiid.
Nordmann did not find any traces of the swimming legs, but the
curved pads on the posterior margin of the cephalothorax are quite
manifestly the rudiments of the first pair of legs, and it is also possi-
ble, as Basset-Smith has suggested, that the divided ventral plate
may represent the remaining legs, but he was certainly wrong when
he stated that the anterior wing-like expansions belonged to the
ventral plate and that there were no dorsal plates.
A revised diagnosis is here presented in order to call attention
again to this remarkable parasite and to offer certain corrections and
suggestions in reference to its morphology.
The genus seems valid and corresponds well with Anthosoma,
Caetrodes, and Saguni. Accordingly we may accept it as far as it
has been described and await further information before finally
deciding upon its validity.
Genus CAETRODES Wilson.
Caetrodes Wilson, Report on the Pearl Oyster Fisheries of the Gulf of
Manaar, by W. A. Herdman, Supplementary Report No. 34, pt. 5, p. 203.
GeneHc characters of feTnale. — Body regions distinct. Head cov-
ered with a dorsal carapace, which is obovate in shape, strongly
arched and considerably widened anteriorly, narrowed and flattened
posteriorly, where it projects back over the thorax segments but is
not attached to them. Frontal margin turned under the carapace,
carrying the base of the anterior antennae onto the ventral surface.
Five free thorax segments, indistinctly separated and diminishing in
width backwards, the fifth one sending back a wide lobe on either
side of the genital segment. The latter small, transversely oblong
and inclosed on. three sides by the fifth segment. Abdomen small,
hemispherical, one-jointed; anal laminae longer than the abdomen,
narrow, and terminating in a spine and a claw.
First antennae five-jointed, slender, sparsely setose; second pair
stout, ending in a prehensile claw. First and second maxillae rudi-
mentary, uniramose, two- jointed, attached close beside the mouth
tube and about the same size. Maxillipeds slender, two- jointed.
Two pairs of biramose swimming legs close together at the anterior
end of the thorax; rami linear, two-jointed. Egg tubes longer than
the body, eggs large, not much flattened. Male unknown.
Type of the genus. — Caetrodes pholas^ monotypic.
Remarks. — This genus is at once distinguished by the claws on
the tips of the anal laminae, which assist the parasite in maintaining
its peculiar hold upon its host. So far as known no other copepod
is thus armed.
