28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE JSTATIONAli MUSEUM. vol.60
Genus SAGUM Wilson.
Sagum Wilson, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, 1913, p. 234.
Lernanthropus (part) Kk0yeb, Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift, ser. 3, vol. 2,
1863, p. 196.
Generic characters of female. — General body form similar to that
of Lernanthropus^ but somewhat shorter and stouter. Cephalothorax
angular; antennal area separated from the rest of the head by deep
marginal sinuses; lateral margins produced into an angular wing on
either side ; posterior body covered with a dorsal plate which is pro-
longed at the posterior corners of the third thorax segment into lobes,
and which is more or less fused along the median line with the dorsal
plate of the fourth segment. Antennae and mouth parts similar to
those of Leimanthropus ; first and second swimming legs much re-
duced, with one- jointed rami; third legs flattened into laminae which
cover the ventral surface and reach back to the posterior margin of
the body; fourth legs also flattened into laminae reaching the pos-
terior margin, the tips of the rami ending in long flagella. Fifth
and genital segments and abdomen reduced and concealed. Egg
strings coiled into the space between the dorsal plate and the third
and fourth legs and thus entirely concealed.
Generic characters of male. — Body divided into two sections,
cephalothorax and posterior body, each covered with a dorsal plate,
the two about the same size. Antennal area separated as in the
female. First antennae seven- jointed and prominent; second an-
tennae and mouth parts like those of the female. First and second
swimming legs rudimentary; third pair with a single ramus in the
form of a long cylindrical flagellum; fourth legs like those of the
female, each ramus consisting of a basal lamina and a terminal
flagellum, the exopod with an accessory flagellum. Genital segment
and abdomen not covered, but visible in dorsal view.
Type of the genus. — Sagum fiagellatum Wilson, monotypic.
KEY TO THE SPECIES.
Posterior processe's at the corners of the third segment broad and extending
diagonally outward away from the following segments, reaching the pos-
terior margin of the dorsal plate fiagellatum Wilson, 1913.
Posterior processes narrow and pointed, and closely appressed to the sides of
the following segments, reaching only halfway to the, posterior margin of
the dorsal plate angulatum (Kr0yer), 1863, p. 28.
SAGUM ANGULATUM (Krwer).
Lernanthropus angulatus Kk0yeb, Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift, ser. 3, vol. 2,
1863, p. 196, pi. 9, fig. 1 Or-q.
Specific characters of female. — General form short and stout;
cephalothorax one-fourth of the entire length, its length and width
in the proportion of 5 to 7, with an invagination on either side ante-
