ART. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 31
Le7-nanthropus Steenstrup and Lutken, Kong. Danske Videns. Selsk.
Skrifter, ser. 5, vol, 5, 1861, p. 395.
Lernanthropus Kb0yeb, Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift, ser, 3, vol. 2, 1863,
p. 193.
Lernanthropus Nokdmann, Bull. Soc. Imp. des Nat. Moscou, vol. 37, 1864,
p. 499.
Stalagmns Nokdmann, Bull. Soc. Imp. des Nat. Moscou, vol. 1864, p. 510.
Lei-nanthropus Hellek, Reise der Novara, 1865, p. 221.
Lernanthropus Heider, Arbeit. Zoolog. Inst. Wien, vol. 2, pt. 3, 1879, p. 269.
Lernanthropus Goggio, Attl Soc. Toscani Scl. Nat. Pisa, vol. 22, 1906,
p. 134.
Lernanthropus Brian, Copepodi parassiti del Pesci d'ltalia, 1906, p. 63.
Lernanthropus T. and A. Scott, British Parasitic Copepoda, 1912, p. 110.
External generic characters of female. — Head fused with first
thorax segment, the resulting cephalothorax oblong or pyriform,
with a dorsal carapace whose lateral margins are curved over ven-
trally. Free thorax segments fused and covered with a dorsal plate,
which is prolonged backwards over the genital segment and abdomen.
The latter small and one-jointed. First antennae filiform, the joints
more or less fused. Second antennae prehensile, uncinate. Man-
dibles stylet-shaped, toothed on the inner markin. First maxillae
palp like; second maxillae and maxillipeds prehensile, uncinate.
First two pairs of swimming legs rudimentary, biramose, the rami
one-jointed; rami of third and fourth pairs transformed into broad
lamellae. Each lamella of the third pair represents a fused exopod
and endopod, projects at right angles or diagonally from the ventral
surface and is folded along its midline, so that its cross-section is
in the form of a half circle. There are usually four lamellae in the
fourth legs, and they extend backward. Egg strings elongate, eggs
uniseriate and strongly flattened.
External generic characters of male. — Cephalothorax separated
from the free thorax and covered with a carapace whose lateral
margins are flat. Free thorax fused with the genital segment and
without a dorsal plate. Abdomen one- jointed and wholly visible in
dorsal view. Second antennae prehensile and relatively larger than
in the female. Third and fourth swimming legs, with the rami trans-
formed into thread-like filaments.
Intemial generic characters. — The usual digestive canal running
straight through the entire body. Sex organs paired, the ovaries
lying over the digestive canal in the second thorax segment, the
testes similarly placed in the posterior part of the cephalothorax;
sex ducts much convoluted. Cement glands club shaped, extending
along the lateral margins of the dorsal surface and reaching forward
to the posterior end of the ovaries. Semen receptacle also club
shaped under the intestine at the posterior end of the genital seg-
