32 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60
ment. Spermatophore receptacle large and near the posterior end
of the genital segment.
The distinguishing character of the genus is a closed vascular sys-
tem made up of two ventral longitudinal trunks running under and
close to the intestine, one on either side, and a single dorsal trunk
over the intestine and between the paired sex organs. From these
central trunks branches lead to the A^arious appendages and there
is also a network of capillaries over the dorsal surface and in the
laminate swimming legs. No part of the system has any connection
with the lumen of the body cavity. The trunks and capillaries are
filled with a yellowish-red liquid, which streams back and forth
under the influence of the peristaltic movements of the digestive
canal, and aided by the contraction of the muscles of the various ap-
pendages and body regions. This liquid contains neither blood cor-
puscles nor any other definite constituents, and hence can not be
called true blood, but it probably serves as an oxygen carrier between
the body regions and into the appendages.
Type of the genus. — Lemathropus musca Blainville, 1822, mono-
typic.
KEY TO THH SPECIES.
(The number preceding the species name represents the total length of that sex and
species.)
1. A ciorsal plate covering the free thorax and genital segment, but leaving the
abdomen visible in dorsal view 12
1. A dorsal plate covering the entire body, leaving nothing visible except the
rami of the third and fourth legs 2
1. No dorsal plate, the free thorax, the genital segment and the abdomen
entirely visible in dorsal view 30
2. Third legs folded in the usual manner and projecting at right angles or
obliquely to the ventral surface 3
2. Third legs flattened into broad laminae parallel with the ventral surface
and covering nearly the whole of it 24
2. Third legs narrow laminae, uniramose or divided and lying flat on the ven-
tral surface, but covering only a little of it 27
3. Dorsal plate all one piece, with no transverse groove or marginal sinuses i
3. Dorsal plate divided into an anterior and posterior portion by a transverse
groove or by marginal sinuses 8
4. Males, dorsal plate no wider than the cephalothorax ; third and fourth legs
projecting well beyond its margin 5
4. Females, dorsal plate but little wider than the cephalothorax, and about the
same diameter throughout 6
4. Females, dorsal plate widened posteriorly to twice the diameter of the
cephalothorax 7
5. Cephalothorax longer than dorsal plate ; latter obovate, much narrowed
posteriorly 1 mm., male, larvatus Heller, 1S65
5. Dorsal plate much longer than cephalothorax, not narrowed, but squarely
truncated posteriorly 1.50 mm., male, laiiventris Heller, 1865
5. Cephalothorax and dorsal plate about the same length, the latter broadly
rounded posteriorly 1.50 mm., male, Jtolmbergii Nordinann, 1864
