ART. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 37
Richiardi ^^ gave a brief description, without figures, of a new
species of Lernanthropus^ which he named micropterygis. Goggio
in the paper just referred to (1906) claimed to recognize Richiardi's
species, and gave figures of male and female adults. He also claimed
that Brian's species thompsoni^'^ was a sj'nonym of micropterygis.
Brian himself in his Copepodi Parassiti dei Pesci d'ltalia, 1906
(p. 66), made thompsoni a synonym of gisleH., but later published an
error slip stating that this was a mistake and that it should be a
synonym of micropterygis. In this same paper (p. 65) Brian
claimed that Heider's species " hr^yeri.^ var?'' was a synonym of
Richiardi's hrevis^ but Goggio, in the Pisa paper already referred to,
identified hrevis very differently and gave good figures of both sexes.
If his interpretation is correct then Heider's name must be retained
and does not become a synonym.
Heider, Valle, and Brian have each stated that probably the spe-
cies described by Heller as trigonocephalus is identical with the one
established by Kr0yer as scribae. Heller frankly acknowledged
that the two species had many similarities, but contended that they
differed enough to warrant keeping them separate,
LERNANTHROPUS CAUDATUS. new species.
Plate 1, figs. 9-11 ; plate 2, figs. 12-15.
Host and record of specimens. — Three adult females were obtained
from the gills of the sheepshead, Archosargus prohatocej)halus, at
Beaufort, North Carolina, July 25, 1905, The best specimen was
selected as the type of the species with Cat. No. 54061, U.S.N.M. ; the
other two become paratypes with Cat. No. 54062, U.S.N.M.
/Specific characters of female. — General form short and thickset;
cephalothorax narrowed anteriorly, swollen posteriorly, the lateral
lobes produced considerably in front of the central margin. Anterior
portion of dorsal plate produced into a large lateral lobe on either
side, which curves over ventrally, leaving prominent rounded corners
both anteriorly and posteriorly. Posterior portion of plate nearly a
circle in outline, its margin evenly and smoothly rounded.
First antennae indistinctly six- jointed, not visible except in a
ventral view. Second antennae of the usual pattern, the stout ter-
minal claw strongly curved. Mouth tube rather small; maxillae
also small and weak; second maxillae large and powerful; maxilli-
peds with a stout terminal claw nearly as long as the basal joint and
jointed once near the center. First legs small and hidden beneath
the maxillipeds, the endopod a conical knob tipped with a single
long spine, the exopod flattened into a lamina, tipped with five short
^ Process! verbali Soc. Toscana Sci. Nat., Pisa, vol. 4, 1885, p. 82.
"Atti. Soc. Ligustica Sci. Nat., vol. 9, 1898, p. 17, pi. 3, fig. 16.
