38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. CO
and stout spines. Second legs with the basipod much swollen,
almost spherical, but with the rami much smaller than those of the
first pair. The exopod is flattened, circular in outline, and armed
with several minute spines arranged irregularly. The endopod is
boot shaped and apparently unarmed. The third legs are excep-
tionally long and narrow ; the fourth pair are divided to their bases
and project nearly their entire length behind the dorsal plate.
Their rami are flattened into thin laminae, which are widest in the
center and taper toward either end. The anal laminae are long and
narrow-lanceolate, their tips reach a little beyond the posterior mar-
gin of the dorsal plate. None of the females carried egg strings.
Color a uniform yellowish gray.
Total length, not including fourth legs, 3.30 mm. Width of ante-
rior portion of dorsal plate, 2 mm. Length of four legs, 2.85 mm.
{caudatus^ long-tailed.)
Remarks. — The distinguishing characters of this species are the
large lateral wings on the anterior portion of the dorsal plate tnid
the broad rami of the fourth legs which project nearly their entire
length. The females of trigonocephalus., pagelli, and scrihae also
have large lateral wings, but their fourth legs either do not reach
the posterior margin of the dorsal plate, or barely pass it. The
plate in trigonocephalus is so narrowed posteriorly that the fourth
legs sometimes project beyond its lateral margins, but they hardly
pass the posterior margin, and they are only cut to their center,
while here the rami are separated to their very base. The boot
shape of the endopod of the second legs is also peculiar and unlike
that of any other species.
These parasites are not at all common, since many sheepsheads
were examined during the summer, but only these three specimens
were obtained. The side view shown in figure 12 gives the best idea
of the lateral lobes of the anterior thorax and also of the excep-
tional length of the third legs.
LERNANTHROPUS TENUIS, ney/ name.
LernanthTGpus, species Beian, Atti Soc. Ligustica Sci. Nat., vol. 9, 1898,
p. 19, pi. 3, fig. 14.
Remarks. — In the reference above given Brian described a species
of parasitic copepod which he referred to the present genus, but to
which he gave no specific name. In going over the described species
for the purpose of making the key which appears above it was found
that this species did not belong with any hitherto described. Ac-
cordingly the above name is suggested for it.
{tenuis, slender, thin.)
