AKT. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 41
genital segment and the abdomen exposed in dorsal view. In mature
adults it is lengthened and broadly rounded, leaving only the anal
laminae visible dorsally.
Genital segment twice as wide as long, with protruding, convex
lateral margins. Abdomen only half the width of the genital seg-
ment, narrowed anteriorly and with convex sides. Anal laminae
cylindrical, filiform, five times as long as wide, with bluntly rounded
tips, without setae.
First antennae small and indistinctly segmented, apparently about
seven-Jointed, somewhat flattened antero-posteriorly and regularly
tapered, with tM'o tiny setae at the tip. Second antennae on the
ventral surface of the lateral flaps of the cephalothorax, consisting
of a stout basal joint and a curved terminal claw. First maxillae at
the sides of the mouth tube and very small; second pair long and
slender, with a short terminal claw, having a row of saw teeth along
each lateral margin. On the side of the terminal joint below the
base of the claw is a small spine. The maxillipeds, like the second
antennae, are made up of a stout basal joint and a curved terminal
claw, apparently jointed near the center.
The exopod of the first legs is quadrangular, with five stout tri-
angular spines along the terminal margin ; the endopod is narrowed
to a thin neck where it joins the basal joint, with a single long and
slender spine at the inner distal corner. There is also a small spine
on the ventral surface of the basal joint just above the endopod.
The third legs stand out at right angles to the ventral surface,
with their tips considerably enlarged, as shown in figure 29.
Each fourth leg is divided to its base ; the rami are slender, taper
to a blunt point, and project practically their entire length behind the
dorsal plate. The egg strings are considerably thicker than the rami
of the fourth legs, and about as long as the body and legs together.
Color (preserved material), a uniform yellowish brown.
Total length of bodj^, 2.50 mm. ; of cephalothorax, 0.75 mm. Width
of cephalothorax, 0.65 mm. ; of anterior body, 1.15 mm. ; of posterior
body, 1 mm. Length of fourth legs, 1.85 mm. ; of egg strings, 3-85 mm.
/Specific characters of male. — Cephalothorax exceptionally large,
wider than the body and about half the entire length, the posterior
margin widened and bilobed, the anterior margin narrowed and
squarely truncated. Body narrowed where it joins the cephalo-
thorax, widened through the bases of the first and second legs and
in the genital segment.
First antennae more distinctly seven-jointed than in the female;
second antennae and maxillipeds relatively larger and stouter. First
and second swimming legs like those of the female ; third legs reduced
to minute uni ramose stumps, easily overlooked. Fourth legs unira-
