46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60
lary network in the third and fourth legs is especially profuse and
fully equals that found on the dorsal surface.
The figures here given (figs. 59 and 60) of the vascular system were
made in 1905 from living specimens. Heider called attention to the
fact that this vascular system can not be recognized in specimens pre-
served in the ordinary way. And even in those which have been
treated by the most approved methods it is usually unrecognizable,
or at least it can not be traced in any detail.
LERNANTHROPUS CARANGIS Hesse.
Lernanthropus caranxi Hesse, Revue des Sciences Naturelles, vol. 7, 1878,
p. S (reprint), pi. 1, figs. 1-7.
Lernanthropus carangis Bassett-Smith, Proceedings Zool. Soc. London,
1899, p. 470.
Lernanthropus carangis Goggio, Atti Soc. Toscana Sci. Nat. Pisa, vol. 22,
1906, p. 138.
Remarks. — This species was referred by its author to the present
genus, and was so accepted by the two investigators named above.
There are, however, several serious differences which must be adjusted
before the species can be definitely located. The head is described and
figured as distinctly separated from the thorax ; the segments of the
thorax are fused and carry at their anterior end three pairs of bira-
mose legs, each consisting of a basal joint which covers half the width
of the thorax, and two tiny one- jointed rami, armed with six or seven
small spines. The posterior portion of the dorsal plate is split down
the center for its entire length and the lateral margin of each half at
its anterior end curves around the side of the bod}'^ and is continuous
with the lateral margin of a ventral plate which extends beyond the
tips of the anal laminae. The fourth thorax segment is three times
as thick dorsoventrally as the fifth, and is crescent-shaped in side
view, with the points turned backward. Such a creature manifestly
can not belong to the genus Lermanthropus^ nor indeed to any of the
other accepted genera, and yet its antennae and mouth parts, the first
two and the fourth pair of legs, and the color are just like those of the
present genus.
In view of these discrepancies and because no two of Hesse's fig-
ures agree in their details or correspond with his text, and further
because only a single specimen has ever been found we are compelled
to reject the species from the present genus, but are unable to locate
it anywhere else.
LERNANTHROPUS SCRIBAE Kr^yer.
Lernanthropus scribae Kr0yer, Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift, ser. 3, vol. 2,
1863, p. 203, pi. 9, fig. 3 a-g.
Lernanthropus scribae HEiDiai, Arbeiten Zool. Inst. Wien, vol. 2, 1879,
p. 354.
Remarks. — It was suggested by Heider and has been repeated by
other authors that this species described by Kr0yer and the one des-
