ART. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS — WILSON, 47
ignated as trigonocephahis by Heller in 1865 are identical. If this
be true, then Kr0yer's name takes precedence and must be retained,
while Heller's becomes a synonym. But the identity of the two
species does not seem possible, owing to the following differences:
1. The lateral margins of the head are smoothly convex in trigo-
nocephalus, while they are sinuate with deep invaginations in scribae.
2. The wings on the free thorax project forward at the anterior
corners and backward at the posterior corners in scribae and are
simply rounded, without projecting, in triganocephalus.
3. The posterior portion of the dorsal plate is strongly narrowed
anteriorly and posteriorly in trlgonocepTialas^ while it is nearly the
same width throughout in scribae.
4. The genital segment, abdomen, and anal laminae are without
transverse grooves in trlgonocephalits ; such grooves are present in
scribae and give the genital segment the appearance of being made
up of three joints, while each anal lamina appears also three- jointed.
5. The fourth legs in trigonocephalus are divided less than half
their length, the rami are narrow, acuminate and equal, while they
project laterally half their length beyond the dorsal plate. In
scHbae the legs are divided almost to their base, the endopod is con-
siderably longer and wider than the exopod and both are bluntly
rounded, while they do not reach the margin of the dorsal plate but
are wholly covered in dorsal view.
Such marked differences seem to preclude the idea of the identity
of the two species, and accordingly they have been kept separate.
LBRNANTHROPUS NORDMANNI, new name.
LernantJiropus kr0yeri Noedmann, Bull. Soc. Imp. Moscou, vol. 37, 1S64,
p. 508; pi. 7, figs. 5-8.
Remarks. — P. J. van Beneden described and figured ^^ a new
species of Lemanthropus, to which he gave the name kr0yeri. The
species was afterward noted by Claus, who added a description and
figures of the male. It has been subsequently mentioned by nearl}?^
every investigator who has worked in the Mediterranean, and finally
both sexes were again described and figured by A. Scott,^* thjs time
from British seas. Meanwhile Nordmann, in the reference given
above, described and figured three female specimens, which he iden-
tified as belonging to this species and which were taken from the
gills of a large Labrax lupus on the coast of Normandy. A com-
parison of Nordmann's description and figures with those of Bene-
den and Scott shows that the species are not the same. The differ-
ences which separate them are the following :
23 Ann. des Sci. Nat., ser. 3, vol. 16, 1851, p. 102, pi. 3, figs. 7-9.
" Trans. Biol. Soc. Liverpool, vol. 21. 1907, p. 95, pi. 3, figs. 1-13.
