ABT. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON". 71
of the same diameter throughout, and are bluntly pointed. The
color of the appendages and body margins is that of transparent
cartilage; the center of the body is opaque and dark gray. The
nauplius eye is not visible in any of the specimens examined.
Remarks. — This species is very abundant on the gills of the sand
shark, where they appear as minute dark brown or black lines against
the red filaments. They are firmly fastened by their maxillipeds,
which are clasped around the filaments, with the terminal chelae
buried in the tissue of the filament. "When removed they always
retain some of the tissue still clasped in the chelae, together with an
abundance of slime, and must be thoroughly cleaned before they can
be properly preserved. When placed in water they wriggle about
like a worm, but can not move definitely in any direction. They get
hold of any fragments of tissue or waste material that may be
within reach and cling to them as tenaciously as to the gill filaments,
but if thej^ are well cleaned when removed and are kept free from
such waste material they will live three or four days. No males
could be found, although the gills of manj^ fish were searched dili-
gently for them.
Genus LAMPROGLENA Nordmann.
Lainprog'lena Nordmann, Mikrographische Beitriige, 1832, pt. 2, p. 1.
Lamproglena Milne Edwakds, Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces, 1840, vol. 3,
p. 487.
Lamproglena Claus, Zeit. fiir wiss. Zool., vol. 25, 1875, p. 352.
Lamproglena Brian, Copepodi parassiti del Pesci d'ltalia, 1906, p. 78.
Generic characters of female. — Head partially separated from the
first thorax segment and divided by deep lateral sinuses into an
anterior and posterior portion. First segment only half the width
of the head and very short, forming a neck; second, third, and
fourth segments increasing in size, the latter as large as the head;
fifth segment smaller than the first; genital segment nearly spherical
nnd much wider than the fiflh segment. Abdomen made up of three
segments, diminishing considerably in length and slightly in width
from in front backwards, the three together nearly as long as the rest
of the body.
First antennae indistinctly jointed, heavily armed with setae;
second pair slender, four-jointed, strongly curved, setose and not
imcinate. Mandibles awl-shaped, with a double curve. Second
maxillae powerful prehensile organs, armed with stout claws. Max-
illipeds also prehensile but weaker, with multiple terminal claws.
First four pairs of legs biramose, the rami indistinctly two-jointed;
fifth legs uniramose, one-jointed, and very small. Male unknown.
Type of the genus. — Lamproglena pulchella Nordmann, first
species.
