72 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60
Remafhs. — Nordmann described and figured the type species in
considerable detail and then added on page 134 of the same paper
two other species, but gave no figures for these and briefly described
one of them only. These two species were found upon different hosts
in the Red Sea, L. lichiae upon Lichia aculeata and L. hemiprichii
upon Hydrocycnus dentex. Neither of them have been seen by any
investigator except Nordmann, and it is impossible on the basis of
the data he gives to distinguish them from the type species or from
each other.
Genus DONUSA Nordmann.
Donusa Noedmann, Bull. Soc. Imp. Nat. Moscou. vol. 37, 1864, p. 494.
Generic characters of female. — Head fused with first thorax seg-
ment to form a triangular cephalothorax, pointed anteriorly ; second,
third, fourth, and fifth segments free, each with a pair of biramose
swimming legs. Genital segment very small, enlarged posteriorly.
Abdomen three-jointed, tapered posteriorly; anal laminae slender,
elongate, jointed near their tips, armed with nonplumose setae.
First antennae filiform with enlarged basal joints; second pair also
filiform and setose, not uncinate. Second maxillae and maxillipeds
large, strong, and tipped with stout claws. Five pairs of biramose
legs, rami three- jointed. Male unknown.
Type of the genus. — Donusa clymenicola Nordmann, monotypic.
Remarks. — This genus was founded upon two female specimens
taken on the west coast of Sweden from the Annelid, Clymene Ivmi-
hricalis Fabricus. No one except Normann has ever seen specimens
of the genus and no other investigator has even mentioned them ex-
cept Levinsen, who published a list of parasitic copepods found upon
Annelids and merely mentioned Donusa in the list. The genus seems
to be well established, however, and both Nordmann's description
and figures are clear-cut and decisive.
The fact that the fifth legs are biramose, with three- jointed
rami, like the four preceding pairs, is the most distinctive character
of the genus.
BASSETTITHIA, new genus name.
Bassettia Stebbing, Willey's Zoological Results, pt. 5, 1900, p. 672.
External generic characters of female. — Head fused with first
thorax segment, the resulting cephalothorax globose, with strongly
convex margins. Second, third, and fourth segments indistinctly
separated; fifth and genital segments fused, oblong oval in outline,
longer and wider than the rest of the body, with projecting posterior
corners. Abdomen one- jointed; anal laminse narrow and tipped
with minute setae.
First antennae nine-jointed; second pair prehensile with a stout
terminal claw. First three pairs of swimming legs reduced to mere
