ABT. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON, 73
tubercles without rami; fourth pair with minute, one-pointed rami.
Male unknown.
Type of the genus. — Bassettithia congri (Stebbing), monotypic.
Remarks. — This genus was established in the year 1900 by Kev.
T. E. E. Stebbing and was named in honor of Dr. P. W. Bassett-
Smith, E. N. The name given by Stebbing. however, had been pre-
occupied by Ashmead in 1887 for a genus of insects, and in its place
is suggested the altered form given above, which includes a portion
of the Smith as well as all of the Bassett.
Genus PSEUDOCLAVELLA Baasett-Smith.
Pseudoclavella Bassett-Smith, Anu. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 7, vol. 2, 189S,
p. 92.
External genet^ characters of female. — Head fused with first
thorax segment, the two globose and covered with a dorsal carapace,
which is cleft at the center of the posterior margin. Second thorax
segment free, narrower than the head; the remaining thorax seg-
ments fused with the genital segment into an elongated, spindle-
shaped body, considerably narrowed posteriorly, and four times as
long as the cephalothorax. Abdomen minute and one-jointed; anal
laminae lamellar.
First antennae indistinctly three-jointed, setose; second pair two-
jointed, the terminal joint a stout, strongly curved claw. First
maxiliae minute, slender, and straight ; second pair three-jointed,
the terminal joint a curved claw. Maxilliped long and slender, the
basal joint projecting beyond the margin of the head, the second
joint long and filiform, the terminal claw short and curved. First
two pairs of legs biramose, rami two- jointed except the endopod of
the first pair, which has but a single joint. Third and fourth legs
uniramose, one-jointed, tipped with setse. Egg tubes as long as the
entire body, eggs large and well flattened.
Type of the genus. — Pseudoclavella ovalis Bassett-Smith, mono-
typic.
Remarks. — The name chosen for this genus is unfortunate for the
following reasons: Oken^^ first proposed the genus Clavella^ with
the type species uncinata, and both stand to-day as he established
them, but they are Lernaeopods and not Dichelesthiids. Kr0yer^^
made Oken's Clavella a synonym of Cuvier's Anchorella, and then
on page 195 he restored the genus Clavella, but took as its type the
species hippoglos which is a Dichelesthiid. Milne Edwards and
subsequent writers followed Ivr0yer's mix-up and Clavella was re-
garded as a Dichelesthiid genus until Poche in 1902 showed that if
Clavella is to be retained at all it must be as a Lernaeopod genus.
** Lehibuch der Naturge.scbichte, 181.5, p. 357.
a=> Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift, vol. 1, 1837, p. 193.
