74 XORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. vol.60
and he proposed the name Hatschehia for the Dichelesthiid genus.
This has been universally adopted, but it leaves us with Clavella^
a recognized Lernaeopod and Pseudoclavella^ just as evidently a
Dichelesthiid and not in the slightest degree a " pseudo " of the
Lernaeopod.
Genus PSEUDOCYCNUS Heller.
Pseudocycnus Heller, Reise der Novara, 1865, p. 218.
Pseudocycnus Bassett-Smith, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1899, p. 475.
Pseudocycnus Bbian, Copepodi parassiti dei Pesci d'ltalia, 1906, p. 76.
External generic characters of female. — Head fused with first
thorax segment, second and third segments free; fourth and fifth
segments fused with the genital segment into a cylindrical body sev-
eral times longer than wide, and of about uniform diameter through-
out its length. Abdomen one-jointed; anal laminae elongate-lanceo-
late, one-third as long as the entire body, very narrow. Egg strings
filiform, longer than the body, eggs minute, numerous, and strongljr
flattened.
First antennae short and tapering, with a tuft of setae at the tip ;
second antennae prehensile, armed with a stout claw. Mouth tube
short and conical.
First maxillae filiform and setaceous; second maxillae stout and
uncinate; maxillipeds large, with a toothed terminal claw. First
legs single laminae without rami or setae; second legs biramose,
rami one-jointed, setiferous; third and fourth legs uniramose, one-
jointed, with terminal setae.
Internal generic characters of female. — Esophagus entering the
stomach on the ventral surface near the anterior end ; intestine nar-
rowed through the second and third thorax segments, then widened
in the fused posterior body. Ovaries in the posterior portion of
the cephalothorax near the dorsal surface; oviduct first narrow,
then widened in the genital segm.ent and convoluted along the lateral
margins. The convolutions are small but quite regular, especially
toward the posterior end. The external opening of the oviduct and
hence the %g'g strings are dorsal to the abdomen. The cement glands
lie side by side on the median line beneath the intestine. Each is
filiform, very narrow, and about the same diameter for its entire
length, without segmentation. The semen receptacle lies on the
ventral surface of the genital segment beneath the intestine; it is
pointed anteriorly and three-lobed posteriorly.
External generic characters of male. — Head fused with the first
thorax segment, the two joined to the second segment by a short
neck. Subsequent thorax and genital segments increasing regularly
in width ; abdomen abruptly reduced to less than half the width of
the genital segment, one-jointed. Anal laminae flattened, much
longer than wide, bluntly rounded, and armed with minute spines.
