ART. 5. NOETH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON, 75
First antennae indistinctljT- jointed; second pair prehensile; second
maxillae and maxillipeds similar to those of the female but relatively
stronger. First swimming legs single laminae, unarmed; second
pair biramose, rami one-jointed; third pair uniramose, one-jointed;
fourth pair uniramose cylinders, one- jointed and half as long as the
body.
Type of the genus. — Pseudocycnus a'ppendiculatus Heller, mono-
typic.
Remarks. — The name of this genus is even more unfortunate than
that of the preceding one. In his Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces
(1840) Milne Edwards described and figured a new genus of para-
sitic copepods, to which he gave the name Cycnus. But Hubener
had used this name 24 years before for a genus of Lepidoptera, and
hence it can not stand for the parasitic copepods.
P. J. van Beneden ^^ described and figured a copepod parasite
which he claimed as a new genus and called Congericola. This
has since been proved to be generically identical with Milne Edwards
specimens, but specifically distinct. Accordingly the name Cycnus
must be dropped and the name Congericola retained. But this
leaves us the embarrassing necessity of retaining Cycnus as a valid
genus among the moths and Pseudocycnus among the parasitic
copepods, the two, of course, not being in the remotest degree
related to each other.
PSEUDOCYCNUS APPENDICULATUS Heller.
Plate 12, figs. 87-96.
Pseudocycnus appendiculatus Heller, Reise der Noca)-a, 1865, p. 218, pi.
22, fig. 7.
Pseudocycnus appendiculatus Brian, Copepodi parassiti del Pesci d'ltalia,
1906, p. 76.
Pseudocycnus appendiculatus Brian, Resultats des Campagiies scieutlfiques
du Prince de Monaco, 1912, fuse. 38, p. 15, pi. 5, fig. 3; pi. 6, fig. 11.
Host and record of specimens. — Sixteen females and a male were
taken August 18, 1886, 100 miles south of Marthas Vineyard from
the gills of the albacore, Orcynus alalonga^ by the schooner Grampus.
The females have received Cat. No. 12663, U.S.N.M., while the male
has been separated and given Cat. No. 54073, U.S.N.M.
External specific characters of female. — Cephalothorax ovate, nar-
rowed anteriorly, with somewhat concave anterior and lateral mar-
gins, and covered with a dorsal carapace. The posterior corners of
this carapace are prolonged into wide well-rounded lobes above the
basal joints of the maxillipeds. Anteriorly the dorsal and ventral sur-
faces are fused into a thickened margin which projects a little on either
side external to the base of the antenna. The first thorax segment
83 Bull. Acad. Belgique, vol. 21, 1854, p. 583.
