76 PEOCEEZ)INGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol.60
appears in dorsal view only as a narrow neck between the posterior
lobes of the carapace and is less than one-fourth the width of the
head. The second, third, and fourth segments are abruptly widened
to equal the carapace, with sharply convex lateral margins. Along
the anterior border of these segments on either side is the rudiment
of a dorsal plate appearing in the form of a thickened margin,
which projects slightly. The fused posterior body is a little nar-
rower than the fourth segment, about six times as long as wide,
with nearly straight sides. It shows no traces of segmentation, but
is divided quite regularly by the attachment of transverse rows of
dorsoventral muscles. The egg strings are attached to its posterior
margin close to the midline and over the base of the abdomen, and
are longer than the entire body. The abdomen is about half as
wide as the genital segment, one- jointed, and obliquely truncated
at its posterior corners, to which are attached the anal laminae.
These latter are lanceolate, somewhat flattened dorsoventrally, and
taper to an acute point. Each is about one-third as long as the
entire body, is eight times as long as wide, and is destitute of spines
or setae.
The first antennae are indistinctly three- jointed and tapered, with
a tuft of short spines at their tip. The second antennae are evidently
the chief organs of prehension, and project nearly their whole length
in front of the anterior margin. Each one is made up of a stout
basal joint and a strongly curved terminal claw, which is usually
carried at right angles to the basal joint, thereby increasing its hold-
ing power.
The mouth tube is short and rather wide and tapers to a blunt
point. On either side of its base are the first maxillae, which are
filiform, three-jointed, and destitute of setae or claws. The second
maxillae are attached just outside of the first pair and are also three-
jointed. The basal joint is swollen and filled with powerful muscles;
the second joint is rather slender, its outer margin is crenate and is
armed with a row of short spines; the third joint is in the form of a
small curved claw.
The maxillipeds are powerful prehensile organs ; the terminal claw
has a sharp spine or tooth on its inner margin near the center.
The first swimming legs project from the sides of the first segment
just inside the basal joints of the maxillipeds and so close to them
as to be partially concealed. Each is made up of a single flattened
lamina without setae or spines. The second and third swimming
legs are on the ventral surface of their respective segments; the
second pair is biramose, the rami one- jointed, the exopod armed with
four spines, and the endopod with three. At the outer corner of the
basal joint, outside the exopod, is a large curved spine, longer than
