78 PROCEEDINGS OF TPIE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60
but one or two are terminal and all the rest are on the posterior
margin, next to the carapace. The second antennae are developed
into powerful prehensile organs; their basal joints are long, much
swollen, and filled with strong muscles, which are supported by
several chitin bands and processes.
The terminal claw is strongly curved and sharply pointed, with a
small and sharp spine near the base.
The rostrum is short and stout, with the upper lip obtusely rounded
and the lower one more acute. The first maxillae are relatively large
and three-jointed, the joints subequal in length. The two basal joints
are moderately stout, the terminal one is slender and bifid at the tip.
with the inner, ramus longer than the outer. The second maxillae
are made up of a rather stout basal joint, a narrower second joint of
about the same length, and a spine-like terminal claw. The distal
end of the second joint is armed with closely placed, acute, and more
or less curved spines arranged in several rows, mostly along the outer
margin.
The maxillipeds are composed of a very large and stout basal joint
and a strongly curved terminal claw. The tip of this claw, and also
the one on the second antenna, is of a dark red amber color. On the
inner margin of the claw near the center is a smaller secondary claw
or tooth, and proximal to this the claw is at least partly divided by
a joint.
The first swimming legs consist of a single flattened lamina, with a
tiny spine at its tip. They are so close to the maxillipeds that they
are largely concealed beneath the basal joints of the latter, with only
their tips visible. The second legs are biramose, the basal joint broad
and stout, the rami short, stout, and one-jointed. The outer margin
of the basal joint carries a long jointed seta ; the exopod is larger than
the endopod and is terminated by four stout spines, the outer of
which is the largest. The endopod has three similar spines at the
outer end and a fringe of fine hairs along the inner margin. The
third legs consist of a single lamina, like the first legs but smaller,
which is armed with three spines near its tip.
Color. — The living male is bright red from the presence of blood
like the female ; preserved material is light cartilage yellow, the tips
of the claws of the second antennae and maxillipeds and the chitin
framework of the appendages a dark amber red.
Total length, 4 mm. Cephalothorax 1,20 mm, long, 1.10 mm. wide.
Body 0.80 mm. wide. Fourth legs 1.50 mm. long.
Remarks. — The fish were brought in alive by the Grmnpus and the
parasites were taken from them by Mr. Richard Rathbun and studied
while still living. He made detailed notes on their appearance and
structure, and Mr, J, H, Blake made drawings of both a male and a
