ART. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 81
(buccatus, large- jawed, alluding to the maxillipeds.)
Remarks. — When removed from their host these parasites float in
water, and even in alcohol, and it is very difficult to wet the outside of
their bodies. So long as they remain alive they snap their maxilli-
peds viciously together in an endeavor to fasten to something. If
a gill filament or similar fragment be left in the watch glass with
them, they will all find it and fasten to it. They can not swim, but
by wriggling their bodies in a manner similar to that of the mos-
quito larva they can propel themselves slowly, but such motion is
entirely aimless, since they can not control its direction at all.
This species differs in many particulars from appendiculatus and
when the male is discovered it is possible that it will demand a new
genus for its reception. Its general make-up, however, is very much
like that of the present genus, and it may be left here until the male
is discovered.
The swimming legs are even more degenerate than those of appen-
diculatus; the fourth pair have entirely disappeared, and the first
pair can be located only with the help of structures beneath the skin.
The maxillipeds are different from anything heretofore found in
that the basal joint is partly divided lengthwise.
Genus HATSCHEKIA Poche.
Clavella Kr0yee, Natiirhistorisk Tidsskrift, vol. 1, 1838, p. 196.
Clavella Milne Edwards, Histoire Naturelle des Crustac^s, 1840, vol. 3, p.
494.
Clavella P. J. van Beneden, Ann. des Sci. Nat., ser. 3, vol. 16, 1851, p. 99.
Cycnus Hesse, Ann. des Sci. Nat., sev. 6, vol. 8, 1878, art. 11, pp. 1-34, pis.
19-21.
Clavella T. Scott, 18th Ann. Report Fishery Board, Scotland, 1900, p. 159.
Clavella Brian, Atti Soc. Ligustica Sci. nat. e geog., vol. 13, 1902, p. 37.
Hatscliekia Poche, Zool. Anz., vol. 26, 1902, p. 16.
Hatschekia T. and A. Scott, British Parasitic Copepoda, 1912, p. 112.
Generic characters of female. — Head and thorax separated, the
former small and usually rounded. First two thorax segments more
or less free, but often fused with each other, each with a pair of bira-
mose swimming legs. The remainder of the thorax, including the
genital segment, fused into a subcylindrical trunk, elongate and nar-
row. Abdomen short and one-jointed or lacking ; anal laminae minute
with tiny setae.
First antennae small, filiform, three to six jointed, tlie joints often
indistinct. Second antennae short and stout, with strong terminal
claws, and often with an accessory spine at the base of each antenna.
Mandibles and first maxillae small, the latter as tiny knobs at the
sides of the mouth, armed with spines. Second maxillae apparently
lacking, maxillipeds slender and uncinate.
