84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60
Remarks. — From the above key it will be seen that Hesse is respon-
sible for seven of the species in this genus. But the same is true here,
as in all the work done by Hesse, the discrepancies and contradic-
tions in his text and drawings are so numerous and so vital that his
species can not be accepted until they have been described and figured
anew. Take, for instance, his species crenelabri. Figure 10, plate 19,
shows a dorsal view of an adult female, in which the first antennae
have 14 joints, all the same length, and the second swimming legs
are biramose, the exopod two-jointed, the endopod one-jointed, both
well supplied with setae. Figure 11 is a dorsal view of the head and
first two thorax segments, enlarged, in which the first antennae have
14 joints, but the first or basal joint is as long as all the others taken
together; the second swimming legs are uniramose, one-jointed, and
destitute of setae. Figure 12 is a ventral view of the head and first
two thorax segments, in which the first antennae have 24 joints, all
the same size, and the second swimming legs are uniramose, two
jointed, and well armed with setae. The creature presented as a male
of this species in figure 1 of the same plate certainly does not belong
to the genus Hatschekia^ nor indeed to any other known copepod
genus.
Clavella hramae. — P. J. van Beneden in his Les Poissons des Cotes
de Belgique, leurs Parasites et leurs Commensaux (Bruxelles, 1870)
mentioned on page 43 Cla-vella hramiae.^ new species, as a parasite on
the gills of Cantharus hrmna. He did not give a description or figure
of the species, and no other investigator has either seen or mentioned
it, so that it becomes a nojnen nudum.
Clavella clavata. — Miiller in his Zoologiae Danicae Prodromus,
published in 1776, gave on page 227 a three-line description of a para-
site which he called Lemiaea clavota. Kr0yer in Naturhistorisk Tids-
skrift (vol. 1, 1837, p. 195) said in a footnote that he was unable to
decided whether M tiller's species belonged in the genus Clavella^ be-
cause he had never seen it and Miiller's description was unsatisfactory.
On the next page, however, he placed it under Clavella^ but with a
question mark. These are all the data at present available and they
are not sufficient to locate the species definitely.
Clavella ohesa. — Richiardi published in 1880 what he termed a
systematic catalogue of the Crustacea living upon aquatic animals,
which was included in the Report of the International Fisheries
Exposition held in Berlin during that year. In this catalogue he gave
the names of many parasitic copepods, which he claimed as new spe-
cies, but which have never been described or figured. Among them
was Clavella ol)c.-<a^ which thus becomes a nomen nudum.
Cycnus? hudegasse. — Kr0yer in his Bidrag til Kundskab om Snylte-
krebsene, 1863. page 65. described and figured (pi. 12, fig. 3) a cope-
