86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol. CO
Internal genennc characters. — The esophagus is inclined forward
at an angle of 45° and enters the extreme anterior end of the stomach.
The latter is enlarged only a little, and passes into a wide intestine
which runs the entire length of the body and is contracted into a
short rectum.
The ovaries are situated on either side of the intestine near the
dorsal surface of the first thorax segment. The oviducts, starting
from the anterior ends of the ovaries, curve downward, outward, and
backward along the sides of the thorax to the vulvae. When fully
developed they fill nearly the entire space between the intestine
and the body wall. The eggs are scattered loosely through the ovi-
ducts, are not arranged in any definite order, and are not flattened.
The sperm receptacle is just inside the ventral body wall and is ob-
long, with rounded ends.
In the male the testes and sperm ducts are arranged similarly with
the spermatophore receptacle near the posterior end of the genital
segment.
In the female the cement glands lie on either side of the intestine,
ventral to the oviducts, and are confined to the genital segment. They
are about the same diameter throughout their anterior half, which is
glandular and not segmented, while the posterior half is much nar-
rowed.
From the supraesophageal ganglion branches go to the two pairs
of antennae and the front of the head ; from the inf raesophageal
ganglion similar branches go to the various mouth parts and the first
swimming legs. A ventral trunk runs back through the thorax to
the anterior end of the fifth segment, where it divides into two
branches, which separate a little and reach the posterior end of the
genital segment. On either side of the intestine in each segment pos-
terior to the first is a band of dorsoventral muscles which aid in the
extrusion of the eggs.
Type of the genus. — Bichelesthium oblonguni (Abildgaard), mon-
otypic.
DICHELESTHIUM OBLONGUM ( AbUdgaard) .
Plate 13, fig. 105.
Galipiis ohlongns ABtLDGAARD, Skrivter af Naturhistorie Selskabet, vol. 3,
1794, p. 52, pi. 5, figs. 4-11.
Dichclestiwm stviHonis Hermann, M^moire Apterologique, 1S04, p. 125, p!. 5,
figs. 7-8.
DichelestMum sturionis Desmakest, Considerations generales sur la Classe
des Crustaces. 1825, p. 337, pi. 50, fig. 6.
DicJielestium sturionis Lateeille, Regne Animal de Cuvier, 1817, vol. 3,
p. 66; Families naturelles du Regne Animal, 1825, p. .306; Cours d'Ento-
mologie, 1831, p. 455.
Dichelestiiim sturionis Bosc, Historie Naturelle des Crustac6s, 1830, vol.
2, p. 223, pi. 18, b, fig. 2.
Dichelesthium sturionis Nordmann, Mikrographisclie Beitrage, 1832, p. 41.
