88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60
name has become so widely known that it will be difficult to make the
requisite change. It is evidently cosmopolitan in distribution, being
found everywhere that the host occurs. The common sturgeon is not
only found in salt water, but it also runs up our rivers. Whether
these parasites remain upon the gills after their host enters fresh
water has not been determined, but they probably do. Strangely
enough out of the long list of investigators who have recorded this
parasite not a single one has mentioned that it was to be found in
fresh water.
Genus CYBICOLA Bassett-Smith.
Helleria Bassett-Smith, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., sen 7, vol. 1, 1898, p. 10.
CyUcola Bassett-Smith, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 7, vol. 2, 1898, p. 371.
Generic characters of female. — Body elongate, without dorsal
plates. Head rounded, not fused with the first thorax segment, as
wide as the genital segment. First three thorax segments free, each
with a pair of soft lateral processes, the remainder of the body
fused into an elongate genital segment, which carries the long and
narrow anal laminae on its posterior margin. Egg strings longer
than the body, straight.
First antennae seven- jointed, setaceous; second pair in the form of
strong claws with a single tooth on their inner margin. First
maxillae three-jointed, uncinate; second pair also three- jointed,
tipped with a short, curved claw dentate on its inner margin. Maxil-
lipeds two-jointed, the basal joint very large and powerful, its
outer margin undulate and fringed with bunches of fine hairs, the
terminal claw stout, strongly curved, with a single tooth on its inner
margin. Three pairs of rudimentary swimming legs, the first pair
biramose, the other two uniramose, all' the rami minute, one-jointed,
tipped with a seta.
Generic characters of male. — Body shorter than in the female,
head more oval. No free thorax segments, but the entire thorax
fused with the genital segment; abdomen distinct with foliate anal
laminae whose tips are fringed with fine hairs. Antennae and mouth
parts like those of the female except that the maxillipeds are longer
and less stout. Only two pairs of swimming legs, the first pair
biramose, the rami broad, one-jointed and tipped with claws, the
second pair uniramose, the rami two-jointed and also tipped with
claws.
Type of the genus. — CyhicoJa armata.^ monotypic.
Remarks. — This genus was first named Helleria., but as that name
was already in use for a genus of crustaceans Bassett-Smith himself
changed it later in the same year. It has never been seen or men-
tioned by any other scientist. Its principal characteristics are the
absence of the third and fourth swimming legs in the male and of the
