4 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE XATIOXAL MX'SETTM:. tol. «0.
scoleces of the lot, and is a conspicuous feature which imparts a
characteristic accentuation to the outline of all the bothria.
Dimensions of hothria: Length, maximimi 4 mm., minimum 2.5
mm.: breadth, maximum 2.-5 mm., minimum 1.5 mm. Breadth of
scolex in front, Tna-riTmiTn 2.5 mm., minimum 2 mm.
Each bothrium is united with its fellow below the free median
borders: each is also continuous below with the corresponding
bothrram of the opposite pair.
The scolex pcssesses a very short neck-hke portion which ends
abrnptly. in some cases projecting a httle, at the point of junction
with the strobile. A transverse section of a scolex is shown in figure
oA. Excretory vessels and a few ganghon cells appear in the
parenchyma, and the characteristic musculature of the bothria is
represented.
A portion of a bothrium. more highly magnified, is shown in figure
oB. The ganghon cells in the mtiscle tissue of the bothria are large.
branching, and sti^est a multipolar structure .
Loennberg^ notes the occurrence of such cells in D. sipiaria. He
describes them as being of peculiar structure, their cytoplasm coarsely
fibrous and without distinct borders. Each cell has a vescicular
nucleus, which contains a very small but sharply defined nucleolus.
The ganghon cells in D. pli^itum agree with Loennberg's descrip-
tion, except that the cytoplasm, instead of appearing to be coarsely
fibrous, is rather retictilate: that is. it has somewhat the appearance
of an ameba with anastomosing pseudopodia.
StroMlf. — The segments begin immediately behind the scolex. the
strobile here, and throughout, being relatively flat and thin. In the
specimen, from which the sketch for figure 1 was made, the strobile
near the scolex measured 1.12 mm. in breadth, and the proglottides
are 0.14 mm. in length.
Figure 6 renresents a transverse section made at a point where the
strobile measures 1.20 mm. in breadth. The excretory vessels and
the lateral nerves are shown. The musculature is rather weak, lon-
gitudinal fibers being the only ones that could be made out. and the
musctilar layer is not sharpy marked off from the subcuticula. In-
deed, under high magnification sections of fine longitudinal muscle
fibers api>ear close to the cuticula. The smaller dorsal excretory
vessel lies in a rather close spiral and is often cut in two or three
places in the same section. The larger vessel also is spiral, but with
looser coils than the smaller vessel.
The strobiles in this lot were all immature. The greatest breadth
noted was 1.33 mm., at which point the proglottides averaged 0.25
mm. in length. The strobile appears to have a shallow furrow run-
' K. -ret. Atad. HBidl. Stockholm. toI 24 :':&'■>. p. 25. fig. 12.
