AKT. 6. ANATOMY OF DINOBOTHRIUM LINTON. 7
ing fact that this localization of subcuticular glands is limited to the
posterior half, or two-thirds, of the right side of the ventral surface
of the proglottides. The fibers of the longitudinal muscles are fine
and arranged in fascicles.
In a section of a mature proglottis, at a point where the thickness
was 0.44 mm., the thickness of the subcuticula was 0.08 ram., and
that of the layer of longitudinal muscle fibers O.OG, It should be
said in this connection, however, that there is considerable variation
in the ratios even of measurements made at different points on the
same section.
No layer of circular muscles could be distinguished in any of the
sections, so that all the space within the layer of longitudinal
muscles is occupied by parenchyma in the immature segments, by
the reproductive organs in mature, and by remnants of reproductive
organs and eggs in ripe proglottides.
The ventral excretory vessels are relatively large as seen in sec-
tion, the dorsal are more variable on account of their more tortuous
course.
Male reproductive organs, — The cirrus lies beside the vagina, in
some cases a little below the level of the vagina, in others a little
above. It is rather short, was not seen everted, is armed with
straight, slender spines, measuring about 0.015 mm, in length. The
cirrus-pouch is cylindrical, and its walls are rather thin. The vas
deferens is voluminous, some of its folds lying beside the inner end
of the cirrus-pouch, and extending to the median region of the pro-
glottis. The testes are distributed on the dorsal side of the proglottis,
from near the margins, and fill more than half of the parenchymatous
space on either side of the medianly placed germarium. The volu-
minous folds of the vas deferens and those of the vagina and seminal
receptacle lie close together towards the median portion of the
proglottis.
Female reproductive organs. — The vagina lies beside the cirrus-
pouch, and opens at the common genital pore, which is situated at
about the middle, or a little in front of the middle, of the lateral
margin of the proglottis. It lies, in the main, parallel with the
cirrus-pouch, both being about at right angles to the margin of the
proglottis. In some cases it is a little above the level of the middle
of the cirrus-pouch, in others a little below that level. The walls
of the vagina are thick and glandular. It is somewhat tortuous for
a short distance in the neighborhood of the inner end of the cirrus-
pouch, and again, as it approaches the median line, it is thrown into
numerous capacious folds which constitute the seminal receptacle.
At about the median line it turns abruptly towards the posterior,
narrows to a slender tube, and enters the germ duct at a short dis-
tance back of the bulbous, thick-walled structure which marks the
