AET. 7. CENTIPEDS OF CENTRAL. AMERICA CHAMBERLIN. 3
The United States National Museum material studied is chiefly
from Honduras, collected by Dr. W. M. Mann, and from Guatemala,
collected by Dr. O. F. Cook and G. P. Goll. Eleven of the 12 new
forms described are from these two countries. The total number of
species listed is 43.
Order SCOLOPENDROMORPHA.
Family CRYPTOPIDAE.
Genus CRYPTOPS Leach.
1. CRYPTOPS BIVITATTUS Pocock,
Cryptops divitattus Pocock, Joiirn. Linn. Soc. London, 1894, voL 24, p. 462. —
Kkaepelin, Revision der Scolopend., 1903, p. 50.
Locality. — Costa Kica.
2. CRYPTOPS MICRUS, new species.
Plate 1, fig. 2.
In the type of this species the basal plate overlaps the cephalic.
Cephalic plate with paired longitudinal sulci. Basal plate with
semicircular cervical groove and paired longitudinal sulci. Anterior
margin of prosternum gently doublj'^ bowed. Sulci of anterior plates
complete. Last ventral plate with sides straight and converging
caudad. Coxopleurae not produced caudad; pores few, only about
four on each side in the type.
Characterized particularly by features of the anal legs. In these
the femur wholly lacks teeth and true spines and the tibia has only
a single tooth at distal end beneath. Both femur and tibia bear
ventrally numerous stout setae, with sparse fine hairs above. Meta-
tarsus with four teeth below and the first tarsal joint with two.
Tibia and first tarsal joint furrowed and notched at distal end above*
Length, about 10 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala : Trece Aguas, one specimen, June, 1907
(O.F.Cook).
Type.— C2it. No. 24118, U.S.N.M.
3. CRYPTOPS PUGNANS, new species.
Among American forms similar to the Cu1>un C. cornifer Cham-
berlin and the Argentinian G. galatheae Meinert in having paired
sulci extending over the full length of the cephalic plate. It agrees
with C. cornifer in having the first dorsal plate with a transverse
sulcus that is evenly curved, not at all angled at the middle, which
the paired and parallel longitudinal sulci attain but do not cross.
Prosternal margin doubly convex; bristles 7+7. Tarsi distinctly
biarticulate, excepting a few of the most anterior. Last ventral
