ABT.7. CENTIPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA — CHAMBERLIN". 5
The specimen from Honduras is referred with some doubt to this
species, as the anal legs are missing. It may possibly, instead, repre-
sent the form N. sulana, new species, described below.
8. NEWPORTIA LONGITARSIS (Newport).
Scolopocryptopa longitarsis Newport, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, 1845, vol.
19, p. 407, pi. 40, fig. 10.
Netcpoi'tia longitarsis Gervais, in Ins. Apt., 1847, vol. 4, p. 298.
Locality. — Costa Eica: Eeventazon Valley, Juan Vinas (P. P.
Calvert).
». NEWPORTIA ROGERSI Pocock.
Newportia rogersi Pocock, Biol. Centr. Amer., Chilopoda, 1896, p. 33, pi. 3,
figs. QSd.
Localities. — Costa Bica : Volcan de Irazu, Cocos, San Jose.
10. NEWPORTIA MIMETICA, new species.
This species is close to the Guatemalan N. stolli (Pocock). As in
that species, the head has paired longitudinal sulci extending from
the caudal margin forward to or a little beyond the middle; these
sulci not connected posteriorly by any transverse line. Cervical
sulcus evenly curved, in the types covered by the cephalic plate or
free only at the middle. Paired sulci of first plate parallel and un-
branched, extending forward in front of transverse sulcus. Paired
sulci extending across anterior third of second tergite, but complete
on the others to the twenty-second, inclusive. Last tergite without
a median sulcus. Prosternum with dental plates short and broad,
convex. Last tergite without a median sulcus. Tarsi undivided
excepting in last two pairs of legs. Tibiae of anterior legs armed
beneath at distal end but not laterally. Last ventral plate with sides
converging caudad, caudal margin mesally incurved, corners rounded.
Coxopleural processes nearly glabrous, lacking the pilosity on exter-
nal side present in N. stolli and N. sulana. Anal and penult legs
also with but very few hairs on mesal surface in contrast with the
condition in N. stolli.
The general form of the anal legs as in N. stolli^ the tarsal division
similarly proportioned and without claw. Femur of anal legs flat-
tened within; lower edge typically with five distally curved teeth,
of which the two anterior ones are smaller ; upper edge with a num-
ber of points or spinules. and below them, on mesal surface, some
still more minute points or prickles. Differing from N. stolli in
having the two ventral teeth of the tibia situated one well behind
the middle and one in front of it instead of both being in front of it.
Length, 15-19 mm.
