6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL. MUSEUM. vol.60.
Locality. — Honduras: Lombardia, three specimens (W. M. Mann).
TypG.—C2d,. No. 24120, U.S.N.M.
In one of the paratypes the head plate is abnormally widely over-
lapped by the first tergite.
11. NEWPORTIA DIVERGENS, new species.
• Plate 1, fig. 1.
Head with paired sulci extending forward to middle, these not con-
nected across base. The first dorsal plate differs from that of the
related N. stolli and N. sulana and N. mimetica, as well as the less
closely related forms, in not having the cervical or transverse sulcus
cross the middle; that is, the segment of the sulcus between the
paired sulci is missing, the paired sulci being thus, in effect, bifur-
cate, the main branch continuing forward and the other curving
ectocephalad.
The characters of the posterior legs essentially as in zV. stoUi,
the spining and hair being the same, or nearly so, though the minute
spinules on the mesal face of the femur appear to be more numerous
and more evenly distributed. The spinules or teeth on the tibia
vary considerably. While typically two in number on the proximal
half, a third may be present on the distal half and the spinules
larger in size, and, on the other hand, in one specimen there is but
a single spine on one of the legs.
Length, about 27 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala : Joyabaj, San Rafael, nine specimens (O. F.
Cook, 1906 and 1914).
Type.— Cat. No. 24121, U.S.N.M.
12. NEWPORTIA SULANA, new speciei.
Plate 1, fig. 3.
Agreeing in general with N. stolli, thus far with certainty known
from only a single specimen taken at Quetzaltenango, Guatemala,
excepting that the tarsus of the anal legs ends in a distinct, though
straight, claw, as in N. amazonica Brolemann. The posterior pairs
of legs are densely pilose over the mesal (caudal) surface and the
coxo-pleural processes are also pilose ectally and above.
Length, 21.5 mm.
Locality. — Honduras : San Pedro, Sula, one complete specimen and
two specimens lacking anal legs (W. M. Mann).
Type.—^o. 24122, U.S.N.M.
Analogy with N. amazonica Brolemann and N. unguifer Cham-
berlin, both known from numerous specimens, indicates that the
claw in the present form is likewise a constant character.
