AET.7, CENTIPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA CHAMBERLIN. 9
Genus SCUTIGERA Lamarck.
27. SCUTIGERA UNCECI Wood.
Scutiffera linceci Wood, Proc. Acad. Sci. Philadelphia, 1867, p. 42.
28. SCUTIGERA NUBILA, new spedeg.
Plate 1, tigs. 4 and .5.
The dorsum is fuscous throughout, without any distinct median
paler stripe, though the tergites appear a little darker on the sides
than along the middle. The legs are blackish with an indistinct and
incomplete paler annulus over middle of femur and tibia and with
a vaguer annulus at base of latter on some legs. Articles of antennae
very short, much broader than long, first division of flagellum con-
sisting of 79 articles. Head deeply depressed over posterior median
region, the depression somewhat furcate between eyes. A shallower
median longitudinal furrow on anterior part of head. The stoma-
bearing tergites notched or incurved at middle behind, the stoma
slightly projecting caudad. Stoma saddles moderately elevated, the
stomata of moderate length, on caudal slope of saddles. Last ter-
gite with caudal margin flattened at middle, but not at all excised.
Dorsal surface bearing numerous short, slender spines or spiniform
setae, all unaccompanied by finer hairs. The slender spines numer-
ous on margins, more sparse over the general surface.
The body of the type is injured at the caudal end, so that the geni-
tal forceps cannot be described.
First division of tarsus I composed of 14 articles, the second of
32. First tarsus of seventh legs with 10 articles, the second with 30.
First tarsus unspined distally. Second tarsus of anterior legs with
pegs beneath in typical manner. Spines present at distal end of
tarsus I in median and posterior legs.
Length, 17.5 mm.
Locality. — Costa Eica: Turrialba, one specimen (C. Lankester).
Type.— Cat. No. 24123, U.S.N.M.
Order LITHOBIOMORPHA.
Family GOSIBIIDAE.
Genus LABROBIUS Chamberlin.
29. LABROBIUS VULCANI (Pocock).
LithoMus vulcani Pocock, Biol. Centr. Amer., Chilopoda, 1895, p. 8, pi. 1,
figs. 8-8&.
Lahrobius vulcani Chamberlin, Bull. Mus. Conip. Zool., 1915, vol. 59, p. 536.
Locality. — Guatemala : Volcan de Agua.
