AST. 7. CENTIPEDS OF CENTBAL AMERICA — CHAMBERLIN. 11
Genus SCHENDYLELLUS Chamberlin.
35. SCHENDYLELLUS HODITES Chamberlin.
Schemlylellus hodites Chambkrlin, Psyche, 1920, vol. 27, p. 65.
Locality. — Guatemala : Coban.
The type was also taken at quarantine in Washington, District of
of Columbia, from about roots of the Chamaedorea imported from
Coban.
SOGODES, new genus.
Labrum having the wide median arc armed with chitinous teeth.
Claw of palpus of second maxillse smooth. No ventral pores.
Coxal glands of last pediferous segment two on each side, these
simple or homogeneous. Last ventral plate wide. Anal leg com-
posed of a total of seven articles, the last ending in a well-developed
claw.
Genotype. — Sogodes di^cUis, new species.
In the presence of a claw on the anal legs resmbling Nyctunguvi,
the species of which occur along the Californian coast, but differing
in lacking ventral pores and in having the claw of the second maxillse
smooth.
36. SOGODES DIFFICILIS, new species.
Plate 2, figs. 1 and 2.
Color, pale fulvous. Head slightly wider than long; widest be-
hind middle, from where narrowed to caudal end and also forward ;
anterior margin weakly angular; caudal margin wide, slightly in-
curved (fig. 1). Antennae short, filiform; joints mostly short, espe-
cially the more distal ones, excepting the ultimate, which equals the
three preceding ones in length. Prebasal plate exposed at middle.
Basal plate four times as wide as long. Claws of prehensors, when
closed, much short of attaining anterior margin of head; the pre-
hensors being very short, the mesal margin of femuroid extending
but little beyond margin of prosternum ; all joints unarmed. Pros-
ternum unarmed; chitinous lines present, fine. First legs much
shorter than the second, the second but little shorter than the third.
Dorsum bisulcate. Coxopleurae of last legs with two simple glands
on each side, the anterior pore smaller than the posterior (fig. 2).
Last ventral plate broad, narrowed caudad. Pairs of legs, 63.
Leng-th, 13 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala: San Rafael, one specimen, June 4, 1914
(O.F.Cook).
Type.— Cat No. 24125, U.S.N.M.
3136— 22— Proc.N.M. Vol.60 16
