12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol.60.
Family BALLOPHILIDAE.
Genus ITYPHILUS Cook.
37. ITYPHILUS CEIBANUS, new species.
Plate 3, fig. 1.
Distinguishable from /. guianensis Cliamberlin, of British Guiana,
in the much larger number of pairs of legs, though the total num-
ber of pairs of legs is not ascertainable because the caudal end of
the type is missing. Sixty-nine pairs are now present in the incom-
plete specimen, as against a total of from 49 to 55 in guianensis.
From /. lilacinus Cook, of the Florida keys, the only other known
species, it differs in the form of the cephalic plate, this being longer
than wide instead of wider than long. The second tergite is broader
and rather shorter as compared with the first, these two being
slightly wider than the cephalic plate and obviously wider than the
immediately following tergites. The antennae more strongly clavate
and flattened than in lilacinus, with the ultimate article less acumi-
nate; strongly geniculate. Prosternum essentially as in lilacinus.
Length of incomplete type (head+69 segments), 20 mm.
Locality. — Honduras: La Ceiba (W. M. Mann).
Type.—No. 24126, U.S.N.M.
TANOPHILUS, new genus.
Agrees with BallopMlus and differs from Ityphilus in having the
ventral pores in a definite, transversely elliptical area which is more
strongly chitinized and elevated above the general surface of the
sternite. May be distinguished from BallopMlus and Prionothal-
thyhius in having only a single large pit on each coxopleura of last
pediferous segment, several smaller pores opening into each pit.
Genotype. — Tanophilus hondurasanus, new species.
38. TANOPHILUS HONDURASANUS, new species.
Plate 2, figs. 3 and 4.
The general color in alcohol is ferruginous, but in life may have
had the dark-violet pigmentation typical for BaUophilus, Head
with no frontal suture, longer than wide, widest near middle, the
sides and anterior margin convex, the caudal margin truncate. An-
tennae strongly clavate, distally flattened, conspicuously geniculate
(fig. 3). Basal plate narrowed caudad, two and a half times wider
than long. Prosternum with chitinous lines distinct and complete;
anterior margin angularly excised. Prehensors small, not attaining
the front margin of the head. Dorsal plates strongly bisulcate,
laterally somewhat roughened. Ventral pores beginning on first
sternite. Last ventral plate strongly narrowed caudad. the sides
