14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
the cephalic plate. Labrum free, tripartite. Median piece large,
protruding caudad, and armed with a series of long teeth. Lateral
pieces fringed with pale spinescent processes. First maxillae with
inner and outer branches distinctly set off from coxal plate. Outer
branch biarticulate, with two long membranous lappets. Second
maxillae with coxae completel^y and broadly united at middle, as in
Nesidij)hilus^ though the median part is commonly more membra-
nous. Coxopleural suture strongly chitinized, anteriorly curving
about ectal edge of pore, where it may be only weakly indicated.
Ventral sclerites strongly developed, extending far forward and
united at anterior end by a small median piece. Palpus triarticulate,
terminating in a simple smooth claw; none of joints with a process.
Prehensors large, exposed from above and extending beyond front
margin of head. Claw and femuroid armed within and prosternum
armed anteriorl3\ Prosternum without chitinous lines. Ventral
pores normally in four areas, one on each quarter of plate, as in
Nesidiphilus, etc. Last ventral plate narrow. Coxopleurae of last
legs elongate, usually considerably exposed from above, and bearing
very numerous small pores. Anal legs with six joints beyond coxae,
clawless.
Genotype. — Suturodes tardus^ new species.
This genus differs from the West Indian genus Nesidiphilus in the
position of the coxopleural suture, this in the latter genus always
ending at the margin mesad of or caudomesad of the pore, as also it
does in the closely related Telocriciis (pi. 4, fig. 5), whereas in the
present group this suture curves about the ectal edge of the pore in
the more usual manner (pi. 3, fig. 4).
41. SUTURODES TARDUS, new species.
Plate 2, fig. 5 ; plate 3, figs. 2, 3, and 4 ; plate 4, figs, 8 and 4.
Flavous, the head and prehensors and a few anterior tergites typ-
ically of a dilute chestnut tinge. Head about 1.68 times longer than
wide; widest at caudal end of frontal region, from where the sides
are parallel or converge but slightly caudad to the oblique caudal
corners and more strongly forward. iVnterior margin a little con-
vex at middle. Caudal margin straight (pi. 4, fig. 3). Articles of
antennae moderately long, the ultimate clearly shorter than the two
preceding taken together. No distinct clypeal areas excepting the
small, pale spots from which the principal, more median setae arise.
Ectad of each of these setae of the median pair a series of three or
four setae and in front of them and between the antennae a second
pair. Caudad of the main transverse series of setae a second series
of smaller setae, these 3+3 or 3-f 4. Caudad of this second series
two setae on the median line, one behind the other, with sometimes
