-ART. 7. CENTIPEDS OF CENTBAL AMERICA — CHAMBERLIN. 15
a much reduced setae each side of the first of these. Median piece
of labrum i3rojecting well caudad of the lateral pieces ; bearing typ-
ically six long teeth (pi. 4, fig. 4). Coxal plate of first maxillae
with a pair of long setae at anterior border, and three or four lessee-
setae. Setae of coxae of second maxillae few, consisting typically
of a submarginal series of four on each side and a group of four at
middle. For other features see plate 3, figure 4. Exposed part of
basal plate about four times as broad as long. (In the holotype the
cephalic plate has been shifted abnormally forward.) Claws of pre-
hensors when closed extending beyond distal end of first antennal
article, but not attaining the distal end of the second. Tooth at base
of claw black, conical, that of the femuroid similar but larger. Teeth
of prosternum short, blunt. See further plate 3, figure 2. Dorsal
plates distinctly bisulcate, the paired sulci also traversing the basal
plate. ^Vnterior ventral plates w^ith a deep, median longitudinal
sulcus. First spiracle large, vertically oval, the second of similar
shape and but little smaller. The third more abruptly reduced, the
succeeding ones soon becoming circular and small. Last dorsal plate
narrow and long, its sides nearly parallel (pi. 2, fig. 5). Last ven-
tral plate very narrow, its sides a little converging caudad, toward
caudal end rounding in to caudal margin. Coxopleural pores small
and very numerous ventrally, laterally, and dorsally (pi. 3, fig. 3).
Pairs of legs, 69 to 71.
Length, 42 mm.
Locality. — Honduras: San Juan Pueblo, two specimens (W. M.
Mann).
Type.— C^i. No. 24128, U.S.N.M.
42. SUTURODES GUATEMALAE. new species.
Plate 3, fig. 5 ; plate 4, figs. 1 and 2.
Resembling S. stolli (Pocock) in general. Frontal plate not dis-
crete, but vaguely indicated in part only as a pale line. Head
widest near level of this line, the sides moderately converging caudad
instead of being parallel. The anterior corners are not widely
rounded, as represented in the figure of S. stolli, but are a little
obtusely angular, the anterior margin of the head being in the form
of a very obtuse angle. The length of the exposed portion of the
basal plate is much less than half its anterior width, being over-
lapped by head and by first tergite; it bears a single transverse
series of setae. It differs from stolli, according to notes on the
latter given by Attems,^ in having two small clypeal areas, each
bearing a seta instead of a single nonsetigerous area. In front
of the two setae of these areas in the present species is a second pair
I Schulze, Porschung.sr. in West, u. Zentr. SUdafrilta, vol. 2, Abt. 1, p. 35.
