16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol.60.
of setae, and caudad and laterad of them are four or five setae on
each side in two series, the total number of setae being thus 12 or
13; all are very short (pi. 4, fig. 1). Median piece of labrum large,
bearing six teeth. Coxae of second maxillae broadly united, pores
opening through mesal edge. The chitinous coxopleural suture is
strongly marked in its caudal half, becoming weaker anteriorly
where it curves around the ectal side of the pore. The lappets of
the first maxillae are long and conspicuous, but that of the second
joint is smaller proportionately to that of the first than in tardus.
Anterior margin of presternum with two reduced, almost obsolete
teeth. Femuroid of prehensors armed within at distal end with a
rounded tooth, claw at base with a dark, conical tooth. Other
joints unarmed (pi, 4, fig, 2), First spiracle vertically elliptic,
much larger than the second. The second and following spiracles
circular. Last ventral plate narroAv; sides converge caudad, more
strongly so toward caudal ends; caudal margin straight. Coxo-
pleural pores numerous, but fewer above than in tardus. Last dorsal
plate broader than in the latter species (pi. 3, fig. 5). Anal legs
in male but little thickened; with numerous very short hairs on
ventral surface of proximal joints. Pairs of legs (male), 59,
Length, about 21 mm.
Locality — Guatemala: San Rafael, June 4, 1914. (O. F. Cook),
Type— 1^0. 24129, U,S,N.M.
43. SUTURODES STOLLI (Pocock).
Geopliilvs stolli Pocock, Biol. Centr. Amer. Chilopoda, 1896, p. 38, pi. 3,
figs. 9-9c.
Pachymeriuni stolli Attems, Scluilze Forscliungsr. im West. u. Zentr.
Siidafrika, 1909, vol. 2, Abt. 1, p. 35, fig, 5,
This species is listed under Suturodes with but little doubt, al-
though I have not seen specimens of the form. Attems places the
species in Pachymeinum, of the Geophilidae proper; but his figure
shows a coxopleural suture as developed posteriorly. This suggests
the condition in the preceding species, in which the posterior part
of the suture is strongly chitinous and conspicuous, wliile the anterior
part is weaker and quite likely to be overlooked in the unmounted
maxillae.
EXPLANATION 0¥ PLATES.
The plates were drawn by the author.
Plate 1.
Neivportia divergcns.
Fig. 1. Head and first segments, dorsal view X 17.
Cryptops micrus.
2. Last leg, mesal view X 65.
