18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
Genus DIAPORUS Silvestri.
36. DIAPORUS CULEBRAE, new species.
Plate 8, figs. 8, 9 ; plate 9, fig. 1.
Brown or olive brown about caudal and cephalic borders of seg-
ments, with the middle band ferrugino-testaceus. CoUum olive
brown, with borders bright ferrugino-testaceus. Legs a somewhat
reddish yellow. Head smooth, with sulcus across vertex fine. Eyes
angled at mesal end, about once and a third their longer diameter
apart. Ocelli in six or seven series, as 11, 11, 10, 9, 5, 2. CoUum
moderately inflexed below, the inflexed portion limited above by a
strong ridge, which is swollen into a large rounded tubercle at the
caudal edge and curves mesad anteriorly, fading out toward dorsum.
Below and parallel with this ridge are five or six deep striae (pi, 8,
fig. 8). Segments with the encircling sulcus deep and complete.
Surface in general densely but finely punctate, at most weakly or
obscurely rugose. Striate beneath and on lower part of sides, the
striae not extending up to level of pore, or with a few short striae
between pore and uppermost complete stria. The anal tergite very
obtusely angled behind; the caudal end abruptly depressed and
sharpl}' set off from the main part of plate ; surface densely punctate
and a little roughened with a fine network of weak or obscure rugae.
The anal valves exceeding the tergite ; mesal borders compressed and
elevated ; densel}^ finely punctate. Anal sternite very wide and short,
the caudal margin nearly straight, being only slightly angled at the
middle (pi. 8, fig. 9) . '
The gonopods of the male most resemble those of D. chiriquensia
(Pocock) ; but the telopodite of the anterior pair does not have the
terminal portion crescentic, the distal process long, and the distal end
of the posterior gonopod is different in form (pi. 9, fig. 1).
Number of segments, 57.
Length, about 67 mm. : width, 5 mm.
Locality. — Panama: Culebra, Canal Zone, one male (W. M.
Wheeler, November, 1911).
Type.—C^i. No. 5,016, M.C.Z.
37. DIAPORUS PALMENSIS (Brolemann) .
Spirostreptus (ScaphiostrepUis) typotopyge palmenMs Bbolemann, Arm.
Soc. Ent. France, 1905, vol. 74, p. 362, pi. 9, fig. 18.
OrtJioporus palmensis Pocock, Biol. Centr.-Amer, Diplop., 1909, p. 96.
Locality. — Costa Rica : La Palma.
88. DIAPOrtUS CHIRIQUENSIS (Pocock).
Orthoporns chiriqitensis Pocock, Biol. Centr.-Ainer., Diplop., 1909, p. 97,
pi. 8, fig. 2.
Locality. — Panama : Volcan de Chiriqui.
