ART. 8. MTLLTPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA CHAMBERLIN. 19
39. DIAPORUS OMALOPYGE (Brolemaim) .
Spirostreptus (Scaphiostreptns) omalopygc Brolemann, Ann. Soc. Ent.
France, 1905, vol. 74, p. 365, pi. 9, fig. 19.
Orthoporus omalopyge Pocock, Biol. Centr.-Amer.. Diplop., 1909, p. 103.
Locality. — Costa Rica : La Palraa, Carillo, Cache.
40. DIAPORUS TYPOTOPYGE (Brolemann).
Spirostreptus {ScapJUosfreptus) typotopyge Brolemann, Ann. Soc. Ent.
France, 1905, vol. 74, p. 359, pi. 9, fig 17.
Orthoporus typotopyge Pocock, Biol. Centr.-Amer., Diplop., 1909, p. 95.
Localities. — Costa Rica : La Palma ; Sururbres, near San Mateo ;
Cache, Cariblanco.
Superfamily JULOIDEA.
Family PARAJULIDAE.
Genus PARAJULUS Humbert and Saussure.
41. PARAJULUS STYLIFER Pocock.
Parajulus stylifcr Pocock, Biol. Centr.-Amer., Diplop., 1903, p. 57, pi. 5,
figs. 11, 11a.
Locality. — Guatemala.
42. PARAJULUS LEUCOCLIUS, new species.
Plate 9, figs. 2-8.
General color fuscous, of bluish cast, paler around caudal border
of each segment. Collum and the three following tergites and the
lower and lateral portions of head fulvous, contrasting sharply with
the following region of body, these lighter tergites under lens show-
ing a network of dark lines. Anal valves and at least the lateral
region of preceding one or two tergites also fulvous. Small dark
spots (over repugnatorial glands) visible along sides, at least in pos-
terior region. Segmental suture deeply impressed, slightly excurved
opposite core, the curving portion long. Pore on middle segments at
least its diameter from the suture. Anal tergite produced much be-
yond the valves, straight to the slender tip, which is distally slightly
curved upward (pi. 9, figs. 3, 4). In the male the cardo of the man-
dible is broadly produced and extends in two angles, as shown in
plate 9, figure 2. The collum of the male is long, as usual. Both
lower angles are well rounded, but the anterior one more widely so
than the posterior. Above the margin are two longitudinal striae,
of which the upper one is the more distinct (pi. 9, fig. 2). First
legs of male strongly swollen, the tibia flattened on mesal side,
much broader than the femur, its anterior side convex, its caudal
side straight. Penult segment much more slender, narrowing
distad. Second legs of male with median processes, as shown as
