20 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
plate 9, figure 5. The anterior gonopods have the inner processes
unusually broad proximally, narrowing distally, the ectodistal angle
rounded, and the mesodistal one acute. Posterior gonopods as
shown in the figures (see pi. 9, figs. 6-8).
Number of segments 42 to 46.
Length, 25 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala: Actele, two males and a young female (O.
F. Cook, May 2, 1906) ; Tectic, Santa Rosa, two females (O. F. Cook,
1906).
Type.— C?it. No. 829, U.S.N.M.
Superfamily SPIROBOLOIDEA.^
Genus RHINOCRICUS Karsch.
43. RmNOCRICUS NICARAGUANUS, new species.
Plate 9, figs. 9-11.
Anterior region of segments light olive, with a pinkish band just
back of suture and the caudal border banded with deep red or red-
dish black. Collum olive, with anterior and posterior borders deep
red. Legs fulvous. Head smooth. Sulcus widely interrupted in
frontal region, the upper end of its lower division lying in a depres-
sion. Sensory cones of antennae very numerous. Collum smooth,
wudely rounded below. Second tergite extending much below level
of collum, not excavated, the anterior edge beneath collum oblique.
Sulcus complete. Sulci on following tergites also complete, but be-
coming obscure on the last several segments, a little curved opposite
the pore, which is well removed. Tergites smooth and shining,
striate only beneath. Scobina with anterior impression transversely
elliptic, the posterior striate area pointed behind, the scobina widely
separate from each other (pi. 9, fig. 11). Anal tergite bluntly
rounded behind, much exceeded by the valves. Anal sternite short
and wide, broadly trapeziform, the caudal-margin straight, the pos-
terior angle rounded (pi. 9, figs. 9, 10).
Number of segments, 43.
Length, 100 mm.; width, 12 mm.
Locality. — Nicaragua: Chontales Camoapa, one female (W. R.
Richardson).
Type.— Cat. No. 5,017, M.C.Z.
» The family names under Spiroboloidea have been purposely omitted because of th«
present unsettled classification, due largely to lack of detailed morphological knowledge
of a considerable number of genera.
