ART. 8. ^VtTLLIPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA — CHAMBERLIN. 21
44. RHINOCRICUS WHEELERI, new species.
Plate 10, figs. 1-3.
Black above, fulvous over lower part of sides and venter. Legs
yellow. Head smooth. The sulcus continuous across vertex and
down to labral margin. Collum without striae excepting a fine longi-
tudinal one at level of eye on each side, extending across anterior
border only.
This form differs from other Central American species in having
an anterior or secondary suclus deeply impressed across dorsum,
whereas the primary sulcus is obliterated above. The secondary
sulcus takes its origin above the pore and lies in front of the level of
the latter. In this respect it is like the Mexican R. omilteme Pocock,
but may be distinguished from the latter in having the scobina present
back as far as the thirty-sixth segment instead of ceasing at the fif-
teenth. The scobina consist of a deeply impressed concentric pit
at the anterior edge, followed by a posteriorly pointed area of fine
cross striae. Sides of segments obliquely striate below level of pore,
as usual, the uppermost of these striae curving dorsad in front of the
pore.
Anal tergite obtuse behind, the angle rounded, exceeded by the
valves. Valves compressed moderately, but not margined. Anal
scale triangular, the caudal angle narrowly rounded (see pi. 10, figs.
1,2).
In the form of the telopodite of the posterior gonopods also sug-
gesting R. omilfeme^ but this longer, and the branches differing in
form, as represented in plate 10, figure 3.
Number of segments, 43 to 46.
Length, 42 mm.; width, 3.5 mm.
Locality. — Costa Rica: Port Limon, three specimens (W. M.
Wheeler, November, 1911).
Type.—CRt. No. 5,018, M.C.Z.
45. RHINOCRICUS CENTRALIS, new species.
Plate 10, flg-s. '1-6.
Segments olive brown, encircled caudally with band of reddish
brown or rust color. Legs yellow. Head smooth. Sulcus sharply
impressed, interrupted in frontal region. Antennae with sixth joint
large, the last bearing very numerous sensory cones. Collum widely
rounded below. A margining sulcus below, which extends a short
distance up the anterior border. Surface with coriarious impressed
lines, which are coarser and more numerous at level of eye and a little
holow it on (Mich side, where the surface is typically depressed. Sec-
