NORTH AMERICAN SAWFLIES OF THE SUBFAMILY
CLADIINAE.^
By S. A. RoHWER,
Honorary Custodian of Hi/menoptera, United States National Museum.
WITH
NOTES ON HABITS AND DESCRIPTIONS OF LARVAE.
By Wtlliam Middleton,
Of the Bureau of Entomology, United States Department of Agriculture.
INTRODUCTION.
The adult sawflies of the subfamily Cladiinae are, with one or two
striking exceptions, rather small, black, and inconspicuous insects
which attract the attention of few people other than the specialist.
The larva of most of the species are also rare and seldom seen.
Two of our American species, are, however, conspicuous; one {Trich-
wcampiis viminalis) because of the coloring of the adult and feeding
habit of the larva, the other {Cladius isomerus) because the larva is
the commonest defoliator of roses in the eastern states. The follow-
ing paper, which is a contribution from the Branch of Forest In-
sects, Bureau of Entomologj^, contains a revision of the adults and
descriptive notes for the known larvae as well as some observations
on the habits of certain species. The work on the adults has been
done by Mr. Rohwer and the new species should be accredited to him,
while the work on the larvae was done by Mr. Middleton. The bio-
logical work and rearing was done at the Eastern Field Station of
the Bureau of Entomology (Forest Insects), located at East Falls
Church, Virginia.
^ Since this paper was submitted MacGillivray has published descriptions of seven new
species of North American sawflies of this group. See " New Species of Cladiinae —
Hymenoptera," Ent. News, vol. 32, no. 2, 1921, p. 48-50. I have studied these descrip-
tions but have been unable to satisfy myself that any of the forms characterized are the
same as the new species described in the present paper. Because of the different inter-
pretations of generic limits it is also impossible to be certain that the generic assignment
of Dr. ]\IacGillivray is the same as that here used, and judgin-? from the descriptions alone
it would seem that certain species placed in Trichiocampus would, according to the char-
acters, ^ere used, be placed in Priophorus. (See p. 4.) S. A. Rohwek.
No. 2396.— Proceedings U. S. National P/sUseum, Vol. 60. Art. I.
