AUT. 8. MILLTPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA CHAMBERLIN. 27
Genus OXYPYGE Silvestri.
65. OXYPYGE VARICOLOR Silvestri.
Oxypyge varicolor Silvestri, Bull. Miis. Torino, 1896, vol. 11, No. 254,
p. 4.
Locality. — Panama : Isthmus of Darien, Punta Sabana, and forest
near Lago de Pita.
66. OXYPYGE FERRUGINIPES, new specie*.
Plate 11, figs. 8-12.
On each typical segment the color in front of the suture is from
olive black to blue, the latter color more evident ordinarily toward
the border, while behind the suture, dorsally, the color is olive black,
running into brown, and then fulvous caudally, while below the pore
the fulvous color extends forward to the suture and tends to be more
ferruginous, excepting along the caudal border. Legs ferruginous.
Anal tergite and valves olive black, excepting the caudal borders
of the former and the mesal borders and caudal processes of the latter,
which are ferruginous. Head smooth and shining. The sulcus widely
interrupted at middle, the upper end of the lower section of sulcus
more deeply impressed, beginning in a punctiform impression. Ocelli
in the usual circular patch, not sharply differentiated. Antennae with
four sensory cones. The collum evenly rounded below, the anterior
margining sulcus extending entirely across the lower end and about
the anterior corner, the border narrowing caudad. The second tergite
extending a little below level of collum. The horizontal ventral portion
strongly striate, with the striae bending out transversely on anterior
portion as in soeius, as in which also there is no trace of the prominent
ridge and pit characteristic of species of Oxypygldes. Segmental
sulcus complete, not pitted. Only one or two longitudinal striae visible
on side below in lateral view of the segment. On the following seg-
ments the segmental sulci are similar!}^ complete and strongly marked,
a little and narrowly curved about the caudal side of the pore, which
is there contiguous with it. The scobina are larger than in sociics,
but much smaller than in Oxypygides inesites and are less than twice
their width apart on the middle segments of the body. The striate
area is not fully as long as the width of the anterior impression,
equaling the latter in width anteriorly, but narrowing caudad, its
caudal end rounded (see pi. 11, fig. 10). Scobina present back to
about fourth from last segment, inclusive. The anal tergite is long
and acutel}'' pointed behind, the tip a little decurved and surpassing
the valves exclusive of the processes. Processes of valves at extreme
upper angle, as usual upcurved at tip. Valves with mesal borders
