28 PROCEEDIITGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vou. 60.
sharply differentiated and elevated, subvertically wrinkled or fur-
rowed over middle portion (pi. 11, fig. 8).
Anal scale is shown in plate 11, figure 9.
Gonopods as represented in plate 11, figures 11 and 12.
Number of segments, 50.
Length, about 50 mm. ; width, 4 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala: Cacao, two males (O. F. Cook, April, 1906).
Type.— C'At. No. 834, U.S.N.M.
67. OXYPYGE CONPUSA, new species.
Plate 12, figs. 1, 2.
Coloration as described for ferruginipes^ but with the ferruginous
bands of the segments beneath apparently more pronounced.
The structure throughout closely approximating that of the preced-
ing species. The two forms are most readily to be distinguished from
each other by differences in the scobina. On a segment of the middle
region the scobina are farther removed from the anterior margin, and
the anterior impressions are much narrower and more strongly curved,
the ends more reflexed, and the area they limit much less narrowly
elliptic in the present species than in ferrugiiiipes. They are about
twice their diameter apart (see pi. 12, fig. 1). The anal tergite and
valves are similar, but the valves are less compressed, the border le^
elevated and less sharply set off, and they are wholly smooth, whereas
in ferniginipes each one is conspicuously subvertically wrinkled
across its middle region.
Unfortunately the posterior gonopods have been broken off in the
type. The median plate of the anterior gonopods, etc., is shown in
plate 12, figure 2.
Number of segments, 56.
Length, about 58 mm, ; width, 5 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala: Cacao, one male (O, F. Cook, April, 1906).
Type.—Q^i. No. 835, U.S.N.M.
68. OXYPYGE SOCIA, new species.
Plate 12, figs. 3-6.
This form is also black above, but the dark color covering entire
segment excepting a narrow plate caudal border. Below the pore the
dark color does not extend caudad of the suture, the posterior portion
being brown or fulvous. Anal valves dusky fulvous, lighter on
caudal borders. Legs lighter fulvous or a little ferruginous. Head
smooth. Sulcus widely interrupted in the middle. Antennae with
four sensory cones. Ocelli in a subcircular patch, as in the preceding
species. CoUum evenly rounded below, on each side a short longi-
tudinal sulcus just above lower margin, this at anterior corner, not
