ART. 8. MILLIPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA CHAMBERIJN. 29
behind middle, as it is, for example, in O. mesites. The second tergite
only slightly produced below lower level of collum. Its horizontal
ventral portion strongly striate, with some of the striae bending out-
ward to the anterior corner on its anterior portion, but with no ridge
or pit. Sulcus deep and complete, not pitted below. A few longi-
tudinal sulci behind this sulcus on lower part of sides. On the fol-
■ lowing tergite the segmental sulcus is also deep and complete, curved
opposite the pore which is close to it. The scobina contrast sharply
with those of mes-ltes, etc., of the preceding genus, the anterior im-
pressions deep, crescentic, separated by four or five times their diam-
eter; the posterior portion of scobina narrower than the anterior im-
pression (see pi. 12, fig. 3). Scobina present back to fifth segment
from last, inclusive. Anal tergite longer than in mesites, caudally
acute, equaling valves proper and touching bases of processes. Proc-
esses of anal valves at extreme superior angle (pi. 12, fig. 4).
Gonopods of male as shown in plate 12, figures 5 and 6.
Number of segments, 45.
Length, about 6.5 mm. ; width, 5 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala: Cacao, one male (O. F, Cook. April, 1906).
Type.— Cat No. 836, U.S.N.M.
69. OXYPYGE EQUALIS, new species.
Plate 12, figs. 7-10; plate 15, flg. .S.
Segments black dorsally excepting a narrow caudal border, on the
sides and below black only in front' of the suture, behind which they
are fulvous. Anal valves dusky fulvous. Legs pale ferruginous.
Head smooth and shining. Sulcus widely interrupted in the middle
region. Elyes large and circular, the ocelli not convex and in part ap-
pearing poorly differentiated. Antennae as usual. The collum widely
semicircularly rounded on each side below. A short marginal sulcus
on each side. Second tergite extending below lower margin of collum,
its ventral part forming a distinct, slightly obtuse angle with the
lateral region. Anterior margin of ventral transverse portion bent
down, as in other species of the genus. Striate below in the ordinary
manner. Sulcus deep and complete across dorsum. Segmental sulcus
on the following tergites also sharply marked and complete, a little
curved forward about dorsocaudal edge of the contiguous pore,
striate only beneath. Scobina very small; anterior impressions
smaller than in socia and more convex, much more nearly semicircular.
The anterior margin of segment between scobina is not convex, or less
so that in socia. The anal tergite elongate and acutely produced, the
tip of the Cauda surpassing the valves proper and almost equaling the
