ART. 8. MILLIPEDS OF CJENTEAL AMERICA CHAMBEELIIv; . 31
The posterior goiiopods of the male characterize'] by having the
coxae extended ectad at right angles to the telopodite; the tracheal
stalk attached at its end along its dorsal edge and to the telopodite
and extending ectodorsad from end of coxa. The telopodite is bi-
ramous, with the inner piece exceeding the outer piece in length and
especiall}^ in stoutness, both divisions consisting of two joints fused
but showing suture plainly. At base the telopodite is produced mesad
and then distad in a process united by membrane with main body of
telopodite. Ventral plate of anterior gonopods small, leaving coxae
wholly uncovered, or nearly so, the middle part distadly pointed.
Tracheal stalks stout, in line with axis of telopodite. Coxae com-
pletely fused with femuroid at middle, broadly in contact at middle
line. Telopodite clearly biarticulate ; the femuroid extended com-
pletely about posterior gonopod on its caudal side; the distal joint
with a process from its distomesal corner ; this process blunt, a little
curved ectad.
Genotype. — Oxoholus virilis, new species.
Distinct from other genera in the structure of the posterior gono-
pods. In the unusual form of the anal sternite or scale like the West
Indian Thyroproctus; but the latter genus has gonopods of the
Rhinocricus type.
73. OXOBOLUS VIRILIS, new species.
IMate 12, figs. 11, 12; plate 13, figs. 1-3.
The bod3' of the type is light olive brown on each segment in front
of the pore and dark olive caudad of it. The legs are red, the
antennae a darker red. The head is irregularly furrowed between
antennae and below them, in the latter region also coarsely, irregu-
larly punctate. The sulcus is complete and deeply impressed except-
ing for a short distance at level of antennae. Eyes comparatively
small, circular, consisting of about 23 ocelli in five vertical series.
Last joint of antennae with four sensory cones. Collum with ante-
rior margin angled or convexly bowed forward just below level of
eye. From this level to lower angle a margining sulcus is present,
this leaving a rather broad border. In the type a longitudinal sulcus
extends from eye level caudad to posterior border, where it meets a
deep transverse sulcus extending dorsad but not crossing dorsum,
this latter sulcus nearly obsolete in the paratype. Second tergite
extending below level of collum and excavated or depressed at lower
end for reception of the angle of the latter, its lower border extend-
ing much ventrad of the transverse ventral portion. Tlie portion left
uncovered below on each side shows two principal longitudinal sulci,
an upper straight one and a lower curved one which bends up dorsad
