32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL. MUSEUM. vol.60.
at or under the edge of the coUum. In the depression for end of
coUum are several vertical sulci, the ends of which extend out on the
free surface below.
On the typical segments of the middle region the segmental suture
is clearly detectable only ventrally and on lower part of sides, very
vague or wholly absent dorsally, the vague trace of suture at level
of pore angled. Segments striate only beneath, excepting the cov-
ered zone of prozonite, which is encircled by striolations ; the striae
of metazonite longitudinal, those on middle zone just in front of
suture oblique. One or two deep transverse furrows setting off dis-
tal end of the anal tergite. Anal valves smooth, strongly compressed,
much exceeding the tergite. Anal scale short and proportionately
very broad, with the caudal edge straight and the anterior one convex
(pi. 12, fig. 12).
Gonopods as represented in plate 13, figures 1, 2, and 3.
Seventh leg of male as shown in plate 12, figure 11.
Number of segments, male, 40.
Length, 97 mm. ; width, 12.5 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala: Samoc, Coban (6,000 feet), two males^
(O. F. Cook, May, 1906).
Type.—C^t. No. 838, U.S.N.M.
74. OXOBOLUS CINCTUS, new species.
Plate 13, figs. 4-7.
A field note says that the segments in life are gray, of a slight
yellowish cast, with a posterior band of black edged with light
brown. In the preserved specimen there is a slight olive tinge to
the light-colored part of the segments. Anal tergite black at tip,
elsewhere pale. Anal valves of the light color. Legs and antennae
ferruginous. Head smooth. Sulcus fine, interrupted at middle.
Eyes less circular than in virilis, longer transversely. Ocelli about
21, in four transverse series. Sensory cones of antennae four in
number. Collum and second tergite of form described for virilis.
The second tergite has one or two sharply marked longitudinal
sulci a little above level of lower end of collum.
Differing from vhnlis in that the segmental sulcus, though no-
where deep, is continuous as a fine line entirely across dorsum. The
dorsum caudad of the suture marked with numerous, essentially
longitudinal, impressed lines, which toward the suture are more
numerous and anastamose more as they do caudad of the suture.
Anal scale with caudal margin less straight, weakly obtusely angled
behind at middle (pi. 13, fig. 4). Anterior legs of male modified, as
in virilis. The chitinous ventral edges on sixth and seventh legs
more elevated.
