AKT.8. MTT.TJPEDS OF CENTRAL, AMERICA — CHAMBERLIN. 33
Gonopods as shown in plate 13, figures 5, 6, and 7.
Number of segments, male, 42.
Length, about 105 mm. ; width, 13 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala: Trece Aguas, one male, June 6, 1907.
Type.—QoX: No. 839, U.S.N.M.
76. OXOBOLUS CRATUS, new species.
Plate 13, fig. 8.
Segments chestnut about middle, blackish anteriorly and in a
narrow posterior band in front of the usual pale caudal edge. Legs
and antennae chestnut. Eyes angled above. Ocelli about 24, in five
transverse series. Sulcus on head interrupted in middle region.
Head smooth above, but roughened on each side of face below an-
tenna with punctae and vertical rugae. Differing from the two
preceding species in having the clypeal foveloae 3-f 3. General form
of first three tergites as in cinctus. Segments with principal sulcus
fine, but complete across dorsum. Striate only below and on lower
part of sides, the striae in front of sulcus oblique, those behind it
longitudinal. The dorsal surface under lens shows numerous coria-
rious impressed fine lines and dots. Anal tergite transversely de-
pressed, but not distinctly cross-furrowed. Anal sternite angled
behind about as in cinctvs (pi. 13, fig. 8).
Number of segments, female, 43.
Length, 140 mm. ; width, 16 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala : " On road to Los Finales," one female
(G.P.GoU, April 29, 1907).
Type.— Csit. No. 840, U.S.N.M.
76. OXOBOLUS PICTUS, new species.
Plate 13, fig. 9.
A dark, olive-black band across each typical segment posteriorly,
and a broader one anteriorly near and beneath edge of preceding
segment. The posterior dark band bows forward in middle region to
merge in characteristic way with the anterior dark band. The in-
termediate portion of segment and the posterior border chestnut.
These bands all fade below into a lighter olive or dull-greenish color.
The dark bands become more extensive on posterior segments. Col-
lum with a broad olive band across its middle and a much narrower
band along caudal edge and in middle part of anterior edge of same
color ; elsewhere chestnut. Head of dark-olive color above, chestnut
below. Legs chestnut (noted as being pink in life). Eyes narrow-
ing at mesal end. Ocelli 25 or 26, in five transverse (vertical) series.
Sulcus interrupted as usual. Face roughened below, as in cratu^.
