34 PEOOEEDINGS OF THE NATIOIs^AL MUSEUM. vol.60.
Clypeal foveolee 2X2. First three tergites in general form as in the
other three species here described, the lateral and ventral portions of
the second and third prominently angled, the two portions evenly
rounding together on the fourth and following segments. The seg-
mental suture absent or obscure above, though showing more traces
than in virilis. The ridges liniting striae beneath not projecting in
spinous points behind, as they do, for example, in virilis and cratus.
The sides of the sternites anteriorly only weakly divergent. Caudal
end of last tergite depressed, under lens seen to be more strongly
and densely coriariously roughened than the anterior portion. Last
sternites very obtusely angled behind (pi. 13, fig. 9).
Number of segments, female, 41.
Length, about 96 mm.; width, 12.5 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala : Coban, Samac coffee plantation, one female,
May, 1904.
Type.— C^it No. 841, U.S.N.M.
This species suggests 0. virilis., the types of which come from the
same locality. It differs in color and color pattern in not having the
ventral ridges of segments spinous-pointed behind, in having the last
tergite strongly coriariously roughened behind and transversely
sulcate.
Genus SPIROBOLELLUS Pocock (an sen. str.?).
77. SPIROBOLELLUS ATRICULUS Pocock.
Spiroholellus articulus Pocock. Biol. Centr.-Amer.. Diplop., 1908, p. 8S, pi. 7,
figs. 9-9c.
Locality. — Guatemala : Volcan de Agua.
Genus ALLOPOCOCKIA Brblemann.
78. ALLOPOCOCKIA TYLOPUS (Pocock).
Spiroholellus tylopns Pocock, Biol. Centr.-Amer., Diplop., 1908, p. 87, pi. 7,
figs. 8-8d.
AllopococMa tylopus Brolemann, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, 1914, p. 34.
T.ocality. — Guatemala : Tecpam.
AROLUS, new genus.
Collum triangularly narrowed down each side, the angle narrowly
rounded below. Median plate of anterior gonopods (coleopods) of
male reduced in size, slenderly triangular ; coxse broad, meeting over
median plate and with mesodistal angles produced ; telopodite deeply
bifid, as in AUopocockia. Tracheal stalk from posterior gonopod very
long, broad (see pi. 14, fig. 2). Anterior legs of male, particularly
of third to seventh pairs, inclusive, strongly swollen beyond coxkb to
second tarsal joint, which narrows conically distad. No special
tubercle on first tarsal joint of any of the legs. Third to sixth legs
