ART. 8. Mn.TJFEDS OF CENTRAL. AMERICA — CHAMBERLIN. 37
Localities. — Costa Rica : Three females and one male, collected by
C. Bergdorf and P. Schild (Ace 38,962, U.S.N.M.) ; Nicaragua: San
Juan del Norte, a female, collected by J. F. Le Baron and compared
with the type in Berlin Museum by O. F, Cook ; also Macliucha, one
male, collected by Dr. J. E, Bransford.
Carl separates his species hiollyi from ^itnbriatus because the type
of the former does not show polygonal areas on the metazonites.
These were also not evident on some of the specimens listed above
when they were dry, but in all they became distinct when thoroughly
clean or when in liquid. The gonopods are as figured by Carl for
hiollyi^ and it is likely that this form is the same species as ftmhriatus.
Genus NYSSODESMUS Cook.
Nyssodesmus Cook, Brancltia. vol. 12, 1896, p. 53.
The original diagnosis of this genus was based upon specimens
in the Berlin Museum of a species as yet undescribed, though listed
as the genotype under the name ;V. alboalatus. While it seems im-
possible to identify this Nicaraguan species from the facts included
in the generic diagnosis, the latter applies clearly to the three new
species here described and probably equally well to the others here
listed. Nyssodesmvs is used in preference to Platyrachus because
of the indefiniteness of our present knowledge concerning the real
characters of the latter in any restricted sense.
84. NYSSODESMUS NIGRICAUDUS, new spedea.
Plate 15, figs. 4-8.
In coloration v^vy similar to N. hivirgatus (Carl), the keels and
a broad dorsal band being yellow, while a narrower stripe along
each side just within bases of keels is dark brown or blackish. The
entire last tergite is black, as is also the caudal border of the preced-
ing segment, whereas the caudal process in hivirgatus is yellow.
The head is blackish and lacks the yellow patch on vertex that is
present in hivirgatus. Legs and antennae dark brown. Vertex of
head roughened, with a rounded elevation on each side of the median
furrow, having at its summit a large, transversely elongate, smooth
tubercle, prominent ridge along mesocaudal border of antennal
socket. Collum broader than head, its anterior margin over middle
region weakly convex; side lobes bluntly triangular, the anterior
margin adjacent to angle with two or three tubercles or rounded
teeth projecting forward and several obsolete ones mesad of these.
Dorsal surface densely granulo-roughened, the anterior row of tu-
bercles evident, but the posterior one obsolete in the type (see pi. 15,
fig. 4). Keels broader than long. The pores are located far outside
