38 PKOCliEDIXC.S OY THE XATIOXAL MUSEUM. vol. 6C.
the middle of the keel, the pore body lying less than once and a half
from the margin between teeth, often scarcely more than its diam-
eter (see pi. 15, fig. 5). Tubercles of sternites of normal form. The
anal valves are strongly margined, the elevated rims being smooth.
The setigerous tubercles are of moderate size, the anterior the larger,
and are contiguous with but both distinct from the marginal rim.
Margin of sides of last tergite scarcely elevated into a true tubercle
to bear the upper lateral seta (see pi. 15, fig. 6). Tubercles of anal
scale large, distally truncate (pi. 15, fig. 7). The gonopods when in
place cross each other and fit into the depression on the sixth seg-
ment, as usual. The accessory branch is broad, but is narrower than
the middle part of gonopod, distally rounded (pi. 15, fig. 8).
Length, 78 mm. ; width, 13.5 mm.
Locality. — Costa Rica: One male (C. Bergdorf and P. Schild, Ace,
38,962, U.S.N.M.
Type.— Cat No. 843, U.S.N.M.
85. NYSSODESMUS MIMUS, new species.
Plate If), figure.s 9-11.
This species differs from the other two here described in having
the dorsum between the keels uniform brown, the keels entirely'
yellow. Head brown, without a yellow area above. Last tergite
brown at base above, with distal half of the caudal process yellow.
Head less elevated each side of the vertigial furrow than in the
preceding species and the antennal ridge less developed. Lat-
eral margins of collum with six or seven low, nearly uniform, blunt
crenalions. Surface depressed transversely between anterior and
posterior borders and across base of keel. Surface in general densely
granular; a series of small tubercles across anterior border; the
nongranular, somewhat elevated marginal thickening of the posterior
border divided into tuberclelike segments by longitudinal furrows
or depressions. The granulation of the surface of metazonites more
pronounced and uniform than in nicaraguaruiis. The posterior border
divided into areas by longitudinal sulci, as in the latter species.
Anterior margin of keels oblique in about same degree as in that
species ; lateral margins weakW undulate, excepting notch at middle,
which is deeper than in nicaraguanus; caudal processes of posterior
region a little less acute. The pore body is a little nearer the margin
at the median notch, mostly a little more than once and a half, but
less than twice its diameter removed (pi. 15, fig. 9).
As in nicaragumvus^ the caudal tubercle of the anal valves is fused
with the marginal elevated rim, the larger anterior one remaining
distinct. Anal scale with tubercles large, the caudal margin between
them angled; lateral margin concave instead of a little convex
(pi. 15, fig. 10).
