2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol. GO.
The illustrations for the adults were prepared by Miss Eleanor
Armstrong from sketches made by Mr. Rohwer, by use of a Leitz
projection apparatus. The illustrations for the larvae were made
by Mr. Middleton.
EXPLANATORY.
In this paper the external genitalia of the female is considered as
being composed of three primary parts. The outer part is called
the sheath. The inner parts, or that which has heretofore usually
been loosely called the saw, are grouped together under the name
ovipositor and the upper (fused dorsally) pair of pieces is termed
the lance and the lower pair the lancets. In preparing the ovi-
pository for mounting, the lancets are removed, separated from each
other and from the lance and are mounted as separate parts, while
the two parts of the lance are mounted as one.
The terminology used for the larva is that adopted in two recent
papers^ by the junior author.
Subfamily Cladiinae.
Gladiinae Ashmead, Can. Ent., voL 30, 1898, p. 282 (part).
Cladiinae MacGillitoay, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 29, 1900, p. 635 (part) ;
Bull. 22, Conn. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Survey, 1916 (1917), p. 108 (part).
Cladiinae Rohweb, Proc. Ent. See. Wash., vol. 13, 1911, p. 224.
As here treated the subfamily Cladiinae deals only with the genus
Gladius as treated by Hartig, Thomson and Cameron, and comprises
these species belonging to the subfamily Nematinae as defined by
Konow,^ in which the basal vein joins the subcosta close to the origin
of the cubitus. Both Ashmead and MacGillivray in recognizing
their subfamily Cladiinae placed more stress on the character of the
anal cell and therefore included the genera Platycam'pus and Ano-
plonyx. According to the senior author's opinion the anal cell, al-
though very useful in classification, is a character so subject to
modifications due to the use of the wing, that it does not necessarily
show subfamily relationships. He therefore prefers to use the posi-
tion of the basal vein as compared to the origin of the cubitus.
From the standpoint of the larvae the definition of the subfamily as
here used is much more satisfactory than when the genera Platy-
campus and Anoplonyx are included, because the larvae of species
that belong to these genera and which we have been able to study,
have characters which place them in the subfamily Nematinae rather
than the subfamily Cladiinae.
2 Middleton, William. — Suggested Homologies between Larvae and Adults in Sawflies,
Proc. Ent. See. Wash., vol. 23. no. 8, 1921, p. 173.
Middleton, William. — LeConte's Sawfly, an enemy to young pines, Journ. Agi-ic. Re-
search. U. S. Dept. Agr., vol. 20, no. 10, 1921, pp. 741-760, pis. 88-92.
"Gen. Ins.. fasc. 29, 1905, ij. 45.
