AHT. 8, MILLIPEDS OF CEXTRAL AMEPJCA — CHAMBERLIN. 39
The ^oiiopods cross each other when in place. They resemble
those of the preceding .species. The accessory branch is more elon-
gate tlian in -:V. trJstanl (Pocock), distally more narrowed, and the
gonopod is narrower at level of origin of style, as shown in plate 15,
figure 11.
Length, TO mm. : width, 12.5 mm.
Locality. — Nicaragua : One male.
Type.—Q^i. No. 5,020, M.C.Z.
85. NYSSODESMUS NICARAGUANUS, new species.
Plate 16, figures 1-4.
The type of this siDecies is nearly the same as nigricaudus in colora-
tion excepting that the caudal tergite is entirely yellow instead of
black. The head much as in nigncaudus,- the ridge mesad of the
antennal socket larger. All metazonites have the posterior border
crossed hj longitudinal sulci, visible to the naked eye, which set off a
transverse series of longitudinallj' oblong areas. The keels of the
middle and posterior regions have their anterior margins obviously
more oblique and the lateral margins less acutely dentate, the margins
being typically simply undulate. The pore body is smaller and is
farther removed from the margin, being mostly from tw^o and a
quarter to two and a half times its diameter from the nearest point
of the margin (pi. 16, fig. 1). The anal valves have the anterior
tubercle separated from the marginal rim but the posterior one is
merged with tlie rim, so that its seta appears to be borne directly by
the latter. The upper seta of lateral part of last tergite carried on a
more distinct tubercular elevation. The tubercles of anal scale are
more rounded than in nigricaudus (see pi. 16, fig. 2).
In the type of this species the gonopods do not cross each other,
being less twisted than usual, but lie with their convexities in contact.
Accessorj^ branch proximallj'^ broad, with sides parallel, but distally
acimainate as shown in plate 16, figures 3 and 4.
Length, male, 83 mm. ; width, 13.5 mm.
Locality. — Nicaragua : Machucha, a male and female (Dr. J. E.
Bransford).
Type. — In collection of Philadelphia Academy of Science.
87. NYSSODESMUS TRISTANI (Pocock).
Platyrarhus tristani Pocock, Biol. Centr.-x\mer., Diplop., 1909. p. 141, pi. 10,
figs. 6-6&.
Locality. — Costa Rica : La Palma.
88. NYSSODESMUS LIMONENSIS (Attems).
Plalijrrhacus limoiiensis Attems, Deuks. Acad. Wiss. Wein, vol. 68, p. 344,
pi. 14, fig. 319.
Locality. — Costa Rica : Port Limon.
