42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
anterior corners rounded; margin smooth, wholly without teeth or
serration. The lateral margin of second and third keels doubly sin-
uous, the median portion bowing out a little convexly. Posterior
angles of second and third keels only weakly produced, those of the
following keels more distinctly produced, more and more so in going
caudad. Margins of keels strongly thickened. Dorsal surface of
metazonites in general with three transverse rows of polygonal areas,
these well developed entirely across dorsum excepting on second and
third plates where they are weaker in the middle region. The areas
more elevated on the keels as usual. On the nineteenth tergite the
polygonal areas of the caudal row are strongly marked entirely across
the width, those of the middle row weaker, while those of the an-
terior row are obsolete in the middorsal region. Sides of metazonites
granular, the under surface of the keels smooth.
Anal scale as shown in plate 16, figure 5.
Gonopods of the male with inner distal branch much more slender
than the outer and conspicuously curved. Outer branch flattened,
blade-like, distal end obliquely truncate, with acute point at one
angle. See further plate 16, figures 6 and 7.
Length, 50 to 60 mm. ; width 8 mm. in female, 7 mm. in male.
Locality. — Honduras: La Cciba (type locality), four specimens;
Lombardia, one specimen (W. M. Mann).
Type.—Qfii. No. 844, U.S.N.M.
103. AMPLINUS ORPHNIUS. new species.
Plate 16, fig. 8.
Dorsum black, with the two posterior rows of areas on each meta-
zonite a little lighter; black of a somewhat chestnut tinge. Keels
yellow excepting at base. Last tergite black across base, elsewhere
yellow. Legs and antenna brown. The collum with the usual four
transverse series of polygonal areas, of which the anterior and pos-
terior series continue across dorsum, while the areas of the two inter-
vening series are there obliterated. On the other metazonites there
are three transverse rows of stringly differentiated polygonal areas,
these being more elevated and pronounced than in the preceding
species. On the ninteenth tergite the areas of the anterior series
are obliterated, while those of the two posterior ones are conspicu-
ously developed, those of the more anterior of these rows being
shorter and more tubercle-like. Marginal thickening of keels in
general less pronounced than in manni. In the gonopods the outer
branch is relatively more slender and less blade-like than in manni
and is distally gradually and acutely acuminate. Both branches
curve ventrad at distal end (see pi. 16. fig. 8).
Length, 44 to 60 mm. ; width of male 7.2 mm., of female, 9 mm.
