ART. 8. MILLIPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA CHAMBERLHST. 49
finely granular or shagreened. All keels from second segment
caudad, with posterior angles conspicuously acutely produced, those
of the posterior region becoming smaller than those of middle region.
Spines of sterna short but distinct, those of last segment not es-
pecially enlarged.
Anal scale as shown in plate 18, figure 5.
Legs, long.
The gonopods of the male resemble those of A. angusfatus Sil-
vestri; but the lesser blades of the femoral process are unequal and
curve distally in the direction opposite to the curve of the principal
blade. The main lamina of the principal branch is more finely and
regularly toothed, etc. (see pi. 18, figs. 6 and 7).
Locality. — Panama: Canal Zone, Culebra (type locality), numer-
ous specimens "taken under bushes in garden" (A. H. Jennings,
April 30, 1909) ; also one male in the Museum of Comparative Zoology
collection, taken at Irenao, in the Canal Zone.
Type.— Cat No. 848, U.S.N.M.
ATYLOPHOR, new genus.
Body composed of head and 20 segments. Head densely clothed in
front, with mostly short setae, bearing finer and longer setae above.
Vertigial sulcus well developed. Antennae moderately long and
slender, increasing a little in thickness distad to end of sixth article.
Sixth article typically a little longer than the fifth. CoUum semi-
circular in outline, the lateral and anterior margins forming an even
arc; as wide as second tergite; dorsal surface with series of setae.
Keels high, the second at the same elevation as the others. Anterior
keels well developed, those caudad of the fifth more weakly so, only
a little projecting over the sides and with anterior portions largely
appearing as a simple swelling of the segment as in many craspedoso-
mids. Keels strongly margined, the lateral border more thickened,
especially about the pores. Posterior angles produced on all or
nearly all segments, though the processes are all typically short.
Metazonites with a well-marked transverse sulcus. Typically with
surface bearing low setiferous tubercles. Pleural keels present.
Ventral plates much wider than long, without either longitudinal or
transverse furrows and without processes in the male. Last tergite
conical, with tip truncate. Anal scale subtriangular. Legs slender,
the anterior pairs not thickened or otherwise modified in the male
and bearing no tarsal pads. Last joint long, typically as long as
the two preceding joints taken together. Coxa of gonopods with a
hook. Telopodite deeply divided, having a dorsal (caudal), distally
laminate and more or less lobed division and a slender, distally
acuminate, tibial branch which exceeds the other in length and is
typically in part supported by the latter.
