ART. 1. NORTH AMERICAN" SAWFLIES ROHWER. 3
The three genera grouped together in this subfamily although
closely allied to the Nematinae have certain characters which sug-
gest a relationship to the genus Monoctenus. In venation, especially
in the position of the basal vein, they are very like Monoctenus,
The ovipositor of species of the genera Cladius and Priophorus is
very similar to the ovipositor of species of the genus Menoctenus,
while on the other hand the ovipositor of the species of the genus
Trichiocarnpus is very similar to that of certain genera and species
in the subfamily Nematinae. In the structure of the thorax, the
adults are more closely allied to the Nematinae than to the genus
Menoctenus. In the larva, affinity to the Nematinae is perhaps even
more striking than in the adult, and there is no more to suggest rela-
tionship with Monoctenus in the Cladiinae than there is in the
Nematinae.
The genus Trichiocampus as here defined is more different from
both Cladius and Priophorus than these two are from each other
and we believe that it will later be found advisable to express this
by the use of subgenera. Such an arrangement would reduce Prio-
phorus to a subgenus of Cladius.
Subfamily Characters^ Adults. — Small or medium sized, usually
black sawflies of a Nematine habitus ; prepectus present although in
some of the black species the prepectal furrow is indistinct ; proepis-
ternum short, not meeting ventrally ; malar space present, inner mar-
gin of the eyes nearly parallel; clypeus somewhat emarginate;
antennae nine-jointed; the flagellum variable; interradius wanting;
three closed cubital cells (often the first intercubitus is obsolescent) ;
basal vein joining the subcosta close to the origin of the cubitus;
nervulus at or somewhat beyond the middle of the first discoidal cell ;
basal vein and first recurrent strongly divergent ; second recurrent re-
ceived by the third cubital cell; anal cell broadly contracted; dis-
coidellan cell present, usually extending beyond the first cubitalellan
cell; anellan cell longly petiolate; tarsal claws cleft with the inner
tooth shorter.
Larvae. — All larvae studied have the following characters in com-
mon, and it is fair to assume that the characters given below are of
subfamily value.
Antennae 4-jointed (chitinized, disk type, with central cone sur-
rounded by flattened oval disks, outer disk may be broken into two
floating or disconnected parts) (fig. 53) ; lacinial armature with a
pair of blades or setae near galea and distinctly separate from the
main series of blades or setae*; maxially palpi 5-jointed; labial palpi
* This character is found, so far as known, in only one Nematinae larva (Pteronidea
amelanchieridis Rohwer), which clings to the surface of the leaf of Amelanchier cana-
densis, upon which it feeds, and which resembles to a considerable degree Cladiinae larvse,
although it is deToid of long, prominent hairs.
