ART. 8. MILLIPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA CHAMBERLIN. 51
SCHISTIDES, new genus.
Composed of head and twenty segments. Head with a distinct
sulcus across vertex. Antennae long, not much increasing in thick-
ness distad ; the second to sixth articles long, not much differing in
length, Collum semicircular, the anterior margin more straight in
middle region than laterally; anterior corners of keels rounded, the
caudal corners acute; nearly as wide as second tergite; setiferous.
Keels of the following tergites produced caudad, as in TricTwmorpha.
Also the tergites are similarly impressed with deep transverse sulcus,
behind which are typically two series of tubercles. Sternites in male
without processes. Anal tergite triangular, truncate at tip. Anal
scale somewhat triangular, acute, behind, the sides convex. Legs
slender. None of them modified in the male. No tarsal pads.
In the gonopods of male the coxa is thick and cylindrical. In
the telopodite the femur is distinctly separated, narrow, the mesal
side with a pit lined with hairs. Tibia deeply divided into two
branches of which the dorsal (caudal) is broader and more plate-like
and curves about the other distally ; the ventral or anterior division
expanded into more lamellar form distally and giving rise at distal
end to a slender style which in the genotype is geniculate.
Genotype. — Schistides atopophallus^ new species.
In general structure nearest Trichomorpha^ but differing es-
pecial in the characters of the gonopods, such as in the distinct seg-
mentation of the telopodite, the narrow femur, the deeper division
of the tibia, the different seminiferous process, etc. Also differing
in lacking any secondary modifications of the legs and sternites of
the male.
126. SCHISTIDES ATOPOPHALLUS, new species.
Plate 19, figs. 4-9.
Dorsum chocolate brown or almost black, the caudal angles of the
keels yellow. Antennae chocolate brown. Legs brownish yellow.
Dorsum weakly arched. Keels high, a little bent upward. Posterior
angles of keels stronglj^ produced, the processes becoming longer in
the posterior region, the ends not at all curved. Anterior angles of
keels rounded. On second, third, and fourth keels the outer margin
presents a small anterior tooth followed by two larger teeth or cre-
nations. On the pore-bearing keels there is but one distinct marginal
tooth, this large and immediately in front of porigerous thickening.
In the nonpore-bearing keels caudad of the fourth there are mostly
only two serrations or crenations, the third being obsolete (pi. 19,
fig. 5). Dorsal surface of prozonites wholly smooth. Metazonites
with a deep transverse sulcus, behind which there are two rows of
