52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
tubercules, typically six or five in an anterior row and seven to nine
more elongate ones in the posterior row. In front of the sulcus the
surface is smooth excepting for two small and well-separated tuber-
cles on each side at the anterior border. Some tubercles at least are
setigerous, but most setae are lost in the type. Basal portion of keel
somewhat convexly swollen and bearing usually two or three tuber-
cles. None of the sternites in the male have processes and none of the
legs present secondary modifications. No metatarsal pads. Proc-
esses of the second coxae in the male short, erect.
Gonopods of the male as shown in plate 19, figures 8 and 9.
Length, about 21 mm.; width, 2.5 mm.
Locality. — Honduras: San Juan Pueblo, one male (W. M. ISIann).
Type.—C2,t. No. 850, U.S.N.M.
TUNODESMUS, new genus.
Body composed of head and twenty segments. Antennae long and
slender. Collum much broader than the head and only slightly nar-
rower than second tergite, the lateral ends acutely angular. Dorsum
convexly arched. Metazonites without distinct transverse sulcus, and
wholly smooth. Keels high, large, wider than long, a little de-
pressed; posterior angles of keels acute, the angles becoming more
and more produced caudad in going from anterior to posterior end
of body; anterior and posterior margins of keels wholly smooth, as
is also the lateral margin, excepting for the small anterior tooth;
margins of keels not thickened. Pores on segments 5, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13,
and 15-19 ; on posterior portion of keel opening above a little mesad
of margin. Last tergite triangularly narrowed caudad, apically
truR-^ate. Ventral plates broader than long. At base of each pos-
terior leg a conical process which is directed caudad and is more
elongate in posterior region and less developed or absent in the
anterior. Less developed tubercles may also occur at bases of an-
terior legs of segment. Legs not granular or spined and without
special lobes or other modifications in the male, excepting that the
second tarsal joints bear pads beneath. Coxal processes of second
^egs in the male directed caudad, slender.
In the gonopods of the male the coxae are long, thick, and erect
and typically not much out of line with the telopodite. Coxal hooks
present. Telopodite with two principal distal branches, an ectal
one which is broad and laminate and may be lobed and which pro-
tects a slender branch on its mesal side. On caudal side, lower down,
the telopodite angularly produced in a conical or laminate process
of varying length.
Genotype. — Tunodesimis orthogonus, new species.
