ART. 8. MILLIPEDS OF CENTKAL, AMERICA — CHAMBERLIN. 53
127. TUNODESMUS ORTHOGONUS, new species.
Plate 19, fig. 10; plate 20, figs. 1-9 ; plate 21, figs. 1, 2.
Dorsum brownish, most metatergites fuscous caudally and across
keels mesad of the caudolateral corners and processes, which are
pale ferruginous. A series of narrow light spots form a median
longitudinal line on dorsum. Venter and legs paler, brownish yellow.
Head dark over vertex and f rons, elsewhere pale. Antennae fuscous,
the last joint pale. Head with a fine sulcus across vertex and two
principal setae each side of it. Collum convexly arched, the keels
continuing nearly the same arc as the dorsum and descending down
on each side of the head, which they greatly exceed. Anterior mar-
gin straight across middle region, laterally curving back around
anterior corners of keels. Posterior margin arcuate, being concave
at middle and convex each side of middle (pi. 20, figs. 1, 2). Surface
of all segments wholly smooth. Caudal angles of keels of second
and third segments subrectangular. Posterior angles of other keels
acute, becoming more and more produced in going caudad. Anterior
margins of keels bowed convexly; anterior corners rounded; a single
small serration on lateral margin; posterior margin also convex
at base, wholly smooth (pi. 20, figs. 3, 4). Sternal processes or
tubercles present both at base of anterior and of posterior legs, the
latter the larger. These tubercles j)resent forward to fifth or sixth
segment, but of reduced size in the anterior region. Tubercles
densely pilose. Posterior tubercles of last two or three segments
more elongate and slender (pi. 20, fig. 5).
Anal scale somewhat triangular, but caudally rounded and notched
on each side near level of seta, the sides also convex (pi. 19, fig. 10).
A leg of male is shown in outline in plate 20, figure T.
Gonopods represented in plate 20, figure 9, and plate 21, figures
1,2.
Length, male, 21 mm.; width, 4.8 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala: San Rafael, one male (O. F. Cook, June
4, 1914).
Type.—Q^i. No. 851, U.S.N.M.
128. TUNODESMUS LAMINIGER, new species.
Plate 21, figs. 3-5.
Coloration in general as in the preceding species, but the light area
of keels not extending so far forward, typically restricted to the
caudal process. The keels are similar to those of orthogonus., but the
anterior margin curves more strongly forward, while the posterior
margin is proximally more strongly convex (pi. 21, fig. 3).
The species is most readily distinguishable by the structure of
the gonopods of the male. The anteriorily directed end of the distal
