ART. 8. MILLIPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA CHAMBERLIN. 57
136. ACERATOPHALLUS DUX Chamberlin.
Aceratophallus dux Chamberlin, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, 1914, vol. 40, p. 193,
pi. 2, fig. 11.
Locality, — Costa Rica : Juan Viiias.
Genus HOLISTOPHALLUS Silvestri.
137. HOLISTOPHALLUS PEREGRINUS Silrestri.
Plate 23, figs. 5-9 ; plate 24, figs. 1-4.
Holistoplmllus peregrtnus Silvestbi, BolL Mus. Zool. ed. Anat. comp. Torino,
1909, vol. 24, No. 615, p. 4, fig. in, 1-3.
Localities. — Guatemala : Quirigua, one male ( W. M. Wheeler) ;
Cacao Trece Aguas, one male (G. P. Goll, March, 1907) ; Honduras:
Progreso, one male ; San Juan Pueblo, two males (W. M, Mann).
This species was originally described from Tabasco, Mexico. The
several specimens now studied agree in all essentials with the descrip-
tion of the type, though presenting considerable variations among
themselves in some details. Variations in the form of the anal scale
are shown in the figures (pi. 23, figs. 8, 9 ; pi. 24, figs. 1, 2).
Family SPHAERIODESMIDAE.
Genus SPHAERIODESMUS Peters.
138. SPHAERIODESMUS HONDUKASANUS, new species.
Plate 14, figs. 8-10; plate 15, figs. 1, 2.
The general color in the types is pale greenish yellow ; but in some
the body appears ferruginous because of a closely adherent layer of
foreign material, which gives it a dull, lusterless appearance. The
surface itself, however, when cleaned is shining, though marked
irregularly with coriarious impressions. Collum wider than the
head, acutely narrowing laterad on each side, narrowly rounded at
apices of angles ; posterior margin convex, the anterior margin more
nearly straight. The second plate much shorter than the third;
both second and third plates crescentic, the keels narrowed distad.
Fourth plate with keels much wider, though only slightly wider dis-
tally than proximally; the anterior margin weakly convex, the pos-
terior one weakly concave; anterior angle widely rounded, the pos-
terior one more narrowly rounded, its general outline subrectan-
gular. Keel of fifth segment much narrower than that of fourth, a
little narrowed distad, being broader across base than across distal
end ; posterior angle more widely rounded than the anterior. Sixth
and immediately succeeding plates with keels strongly narrowed
3136— 22— Proc.N.M. Vol.60 20
