60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
149. CYNEDESMUS PERPARVUS (Pocock).
Lophodesmus perparvus Pocock, Biol. Centr.-Anier., Ddplop., 1909, p. 133,
pi. 10, figs. 3-3a.
Locality. — Guatemala : Volcan de Agua.
Genus CYRTODESMUS Gervais.
150. CYRTODESMUS GRANOSUS (Gervais and Gondot).
Poli/dcsmus granosus Geevais and Gouuot, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, ser. 2,
1844, vol. 2, p. 28.
Cyrtodesmus gra)wsus Gervais, Ins. Apt., vol. 4, 1847, p. 93.
Oncodcsmus granosus Pocock, Biol. Centr.-Amer., Diplop., 1909, p. 116.
Locality. — Panama.
Suborder ONISCOMORPHA.
Family GLOMERIDAE.
GLOMEROIDES, new genus.
Body strongly pigmented, composed of head and tAvelve segments.
The last tergite large, greatly exceeding the eleventh in size, not
furrowed or otherwise roughened. Antennae and ocelli as in
(rlomeris. Second tergite cleft below from caudal margin, the
hyposchismal portion of plate concealed in dorsal view. Telopodite
of male gonopods with a stout, distally directed process on mesal
side of tibia, the femur lacking processes; without setigerous cones
or papillae or setae. Seventeenth legs of male greatly reduced, with
only three joints beyond coxa; clawless. Eighteenth legs of male
with coxae separated by a distinct suture at middle ; six-jointed ; the
tarsus about twice as long as the tibia.
GsTiotype. — Glomeroides centralis., new species.
Differs from Glom.eris and resembles Onychogloineris in form of
gonopods in male, but differs from the latter in the reduced, clawless
seventeenth legs, etc.
151. GLOMEROIDES CENTRALIS, new species.
Plate 24, figs. 5-S ; plate 25, figs. 1-4.
Typically black or bluish black above, with a median longitudinal
fulvous line running caudal from collum. This expands triangu-
larly on anterior portion of each tergite and forms a broader band on
the twelfth tergite. Also typically a series of vertically elongate,
pale spots along each side, each spot with a network of fine dark
lines visible under lens. Collum with a yellow caudal margin bor-
dered in front with a dark band, the plate paler in front of this.
Pleurites fulvous, the sternites and legs often a little darker. An-
