ART. 8. MILLIPEDS OF CENTRAL AMERICA CHAMBERLIN. 61
tennae brown. Head fulvous below, brownish above. Collum with
caudal and lateral margins forming an evenly convex curve, mar-
gined all around. The more caudal of the two transverse sulci a
little in front of middle, nearer to the second sulcus than the latter
is to the anterior margin (pi. 25, fig. 3). Second tergite margined
below and entirely across anterior border. Behind margining slucus
with numerous parallel striae, much as in G. multistriatus (C. Koch)
(pi. 24, fig. 5). In the following tergites the keels acutely narrowed
ventral, with lower ends rounded. The anterior field on these ter-
gites is narrow, less than half the width of the posterior, and with-
out sulcus, as shown in plate 24, figure 5.
Seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth (gonopodal) legs of male
as shown in plate 24, figures 7 and 8, and plate 25, figures 1 and 2.
A pleurite from middle region is shown in plate 25, figure 4.
Length of female, 10 mm. ; width, 6.5 mm. Length of male, 7 mm. ;
width, 4 mm.
Locality. — Guatemala: Trece Aguas (O. F. Cook, July 6, 1907).
Type.— Cat No. 856, U.S.N.M.
The median dorsal fulvous stripe appears not to be developed as a
rule in young specimens.
Suborder LIMACOMORPHA.
Family GLOMERIDESMIDAE.
Genus GLOMERIDESMUS Gervais.
152. GLOMERIDESMUS CENTRALIS, new species.
Plate 25, figs. 5, 6.
The general color above is brownish black, sometimes lighter.
Head yellowish at sides and over lower part of clypeus, elsewhere
dark but with an angular yellow mark between antennae, and above
this a pair of yellow spots. Dorsum with a median longitudinal
series of yellow spots, which are often divided, and a series on each
side of this. A row of yellow spots below on each side.
In general structure and details of head, tergites, legs, and pleurites
so closely corresponding to G. 2>oTcellus Gervais and Goudot of Co-
lombia and Venezuela that a redescription is unnecessary. The
form of the angles of the posterior tergites is shown in plate 25,
figure 5.
This species seems obviously distinct from porcellus in the form of
the penes. In porcellus the extended penes in all specimens ex-
amined are long and comparatively slender, with a marked tendency
to curve, the curvature commonly more pronounced in one than in
