4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol. 60.
3-jointed (fig. 54) ; thoracic segments structurally much as Nema-
tinae; legs 4-jointed (fig. 52) ; abdominal segments (uropods normal
on urites 2-7, inclusive, and postpedes on urite 10 as in Nematinae)
4 annulate, A, B, C, and D (figs. 57-61), A, B, and C are large, promi-
nent, distinct, and ornamented with spines or hairs, A to a somewhat
lesser degree, while D is membraneous, inconspicuous, narrow, not
prominent, unornamented, and often infolded or depressed to apparent
absence; spiracle in alar region below B; spiracular area not large
and distinct; alar area, below C in alar region, consisting of a pair
of large dorsad-ventrad elongated folds, the anterior fold more dis-
tinct.
Distributicrn. — This subfamily is represented in both divisions of
the Holarctic Region, but most of the species occurring in the Nearctic
Region are confined to the eastern part of the continent. The best-
known species of the subfamily, the bristly rose slug, Gladius
isomerus Norton, which is very abundant and injurious in the eastern
part of the Nearctic Region, and has heretofore been confused with a
European species.
Generic Characters. — Heretofore with the exception of the synopsis
given by MacGillivray ^ the genera assigned to this group have been
separated by the modification of the flagellum, especially that of the
male. MacGillivray in his recently published synopsis introduces the
character of the relative length of the anterior basitarsis and separates
the genus Priophor-us from the other two genera by the absence of an
appendage to the radiellan cell. Although this last-mentioned char-
acter applies for certain few species of the genus Priophorus some of
the species described in this paper and assigned to Priophorus (and
which agree with the definition here used) have a distinct appendage
to the radiellan cell. The relative length and distinctness of this ap-
pendage is subject to individual variation and is sometimes different
in the two wings of the same specimens. Because of this variability
this character can not safely be used in separating genera and even
for species it should be used with great care.
The secondary sexual characters, as found in the antennae and
heretofore used as generic, cannot be considered of such value, since
they group together species which on biology, larvae, and habitus are
not closely allied. Ti'ichio campus iiY-egularis (Dyar) has the an-
tennae in both sexes simple, and if those antennal characters are
used it would be placed in the genus Priophorus., but the larvae, lar-
val-habits, ovipositor, and leg characters show that it belongs to
Tricliio campus., where in the female it is so closely allied to grega-
rius (Dyar) as to offer difficulty in separating it, without examina-
tion of the ovipositor. Priophorus uhni (Linnaeus) has therefore
been placed in the genus Trichiocampus because of the character of
•Bull. 22, Conn. Geol. and Nat Hist. Surv., 1916 (1917), p. 108.
