ART. 9. HISTORY OF INVENTIONS — HOUGH. 15
took place no doubt when the shaping of wood became an important
feature in the savage economy. In the most primitive forms the
stone blade is flaked into shape (No. 1), and in the more highly de-
veloped (Nos. 4 and 5) it is pecked and ground, the distinguishing
characteristic of the implement being the single bevel of the edge.
The hafting is accomplished in a variety of ways. One of the highest
forms of the simple tool is the steel hand adz of the present period
(No. 12). This implement may be regarded as the prototype of the
modern planing machine, which is a compound adz, several blades
being mounted on a revolving shaft. A model of this device appears
in No. 13, which is the working part of the superb machines of to-day.
No. 1. Blade of flint, reduced to a beveled edge by flaking. Simpler forms are
sharp stones identical witli the earliest axes. Virginia 1,073
No. 2. Adz made of column of conch shell by grinding an edge, mainly from one
side. Simple style of hafting. Florida 3,687
No. 3. Adz made of diorite flaked into shape and sharpened by grinding.
Primitive hafting. Samoa 19,342
No. 4. Stone adz, pecked and ground into shape ; wooden handle attached with
twigs. British Columbia 88,720
No. 5. Polished stone adz, neatly fixed to an effective wooden handle. New
Guinea 73,355
No. 6. Stone adz, with hollowed blade, curved edge, and shell adz, showing
origin of this form. Rhode Island and West Indies 17,687, 747
No. 7. Copper adz blade, shaped by hammering ; well specialized form ; curved
edge. New York 18,960
No. 8. Copper adz blade, shaped by hammering; socket for handle, made by in-
curving margins. Wisconsin 32,615
No. 9. Iron blade fixed on primitive handle by means of buckskin thong. Indians
of Washington 130,985
No. 10. Iron blade of modern type, with highly specialized handhold attached by
leather strap. Indians of Washington 74,770
No. 11. Small, rudely hafted adz ; blade and method of hafting advanced shape.
Ceylon 168,684
No. 12. Common steel adz for use in one hand ; highly specialized shape. United
States.
No. 13. Cutter head of modern planing machine. May be regarded as a com-
pound adz.
SERIES 1. HAMMER.
Plate 16.
The hammer has been from the beginning an important factor in
human progress. The earliest known forms are round stones, which
were employed in various useful arts, for shaping implements, in war,
md in the chase. Identical forms are used by such living tribes as
still occupy the first few rounds of the ladder of culture.
As the pioneers of civilization advanced step by step to higher levels
the hammer was modified and improved. The simple rounded stone
^ave way to the specially shaped stone, and then the art of hafting
