AKT. 1. NORTH AMERICAN SAWFLIES ROHWER. 9
gust. The latter generation overwintering in cocoons, the adults
emerging in May of the next year.
Distrihufion. — This species is generally distributed over Northern
and Central Europe. In America it was first discovered by Lintner
at Albany, New York, where he found it defoliating Populus moni-
lifera^ and described it under the name Aulacomerus lutescens. In
the summer of 1915 it was abundant enough on the shade trees at
Toronto, Ontario, to attract the attention of park supervisors, and
specimens were sent both to Doctor Cosens and Mr. Caesar. The
same season it was abundant on poplars in Brooklyn, New York,
and the Bureau of Entomology received a number of inquiries from
this place. A' female, reared July 28, 1915, from larvae collected
June 30, 1915, on poplar at New Haven, Connecticut, has also been
examined.
TRICHIOCAMPUS IRREGULARIS (Dyar).
Figures 13, 14, 26, 27, 38, 4-1, 59.
"N" Dyar, Can. Ent., vol. 27, 1896, p. 340.
Prioplionis irreffularis Dyar, Journ. N. Y. Eut. Soc, vol. 8, 1900, p. 28.
Trichiocampiis irregularis Dyar, MacGillivray, Bull. 22, Conn. Geol. Nat.
Hist. Surv., 1916 (1917), p. 110.
Type.— Cat No. 21581 U-S-N-M.
Female. — Length 6 mm.; length of antenna 3.5 mm. Clypeus
with rather close setigerous punctures, strongly convex in the basal
middle, the apical margin with a broad, shallow, V-shaped emargina-
tion; supraclypeal foveae large, circular in outline; lateral supra-
clypeal area flat; ocellar basin faintly indicated ventrally and almost
triangular in outline; dorsally the ocellar basin is more sharply
defined and projects to the postocellar furrow ; frontal crest promi-
nent medianly and broken by the elongate middle fovea; antennal
furrows wanting below lateral ocelli; postocellar furrow distinct,
straight ; postocellar line distinctly longer than the ocellocular line ;
ocellocular line slightly longer than the ocelloccipital line; posto-
cellar area sharply defined laterally, strongly convex, without foveae;
antennae as in figures 13 and 26; wings normal, stigma gradually
tapering from the basal third; first intercubitus obsolescent; sec-
ond cubital cell distinctly longer than the third; second recurrent
received the length of the second intercubitus from the base of the
second cubital; sheath straight above, obtusely pointed apically,
tapering from a broad base; ovipositor as in figures 38 and 44;
lancet with three broad, not emarginate, teeth at apex, then eleven
prominent teeth which are pointed slightly backwards, the last two
teeth are slightly larger but are not emarginate; posterior margin
of transverse plates seven to ten finely serrate. Black; tibiae and the
