20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
No. 10. Scraper used largely by merchants in erasing marks from packing
boxes.
No. 11. Scraper in use among greengrocers and butcliers to clean their blocks.
HISTORY OF HAND WEAPONS WITH BLADES.
Omitting the employment of fire, smoke, poison, etc., to destroy
life, the weapons of mankind are of three kinds — pointed weapons to
pierce some vital part; edged weapons to cut the muscular tissues
and even to chop the bony structure ; and striking weapons to stun,
to bruise, and to break the bones.
They are (1) held in the hand; (2) attached to the end of a shaft;
(3) hurled from the hand, as a javelin; (4) shot from a bow,
arbalest, catapult, or gun, or (5) thrown from a sling, throwing
stick, or balista.
Natural objects, slightly modified, were the first cutting or slash-
ing weapons. In one area they were shark's teeth fastened on a
handle ; in another silicious stones, used singly or on shafts, did the
murderous work. Weapons of this class, however, were crude until
the age of metals, when they assumed the first rank.
In the two series here exhibited hand weapons for piercing and
cutting are shown. The first sets forth the development of the
dagger, the second that of the saber and the sword. The two series
run into each other so that there are no sharp lines of demarcation.
SERIES 1. HAND WEAPONS FOR PIERCING OR STABBING.
Plate 21.
Daggers undergo various modifications, according to the grade of
culture, the materials at hand, and the taste or idiosyncrasies of
peoples. The series here shown is suggestive of the steps of progress
in hand weapons for piercing. The first forms were pointed spines
of vegetal or animal substances, either in their natural state or
ground to a point. Metal weapons of this class for merely piercing
are scarce. The function of cutting as well is easily added by mak-
ing the blade triangular and sharpening the sides. The effect is
then to pierce a vital organ or to sever a blood vessel. The bayonet
is the modern expression of the hand weapon for piercing added to
a musket or rifle.
No. 1. Frasjments of flinty stone slightly sharpened at one end to form a
point 100,257
No. 2. Prongs of antlers, one end sharpened, the other serving for a grip,
99,568, 137,208
No. 3. Split thigh bones ground to a point at one end, the other serving for a
grip 58,241,167,760
No. 4. Pointed bone and antler, with grip cut out into forms 156,624, 19,269
No. 5. Long blades of chipped stone pointed at one end 20,419
