22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. Vol.60.
No. 4. Copper blades for slashing, with grip, tang, or socket for hafting.
Illinois, Greece, and Italy 7,535
No. 5. Boarding blade turned into a slashing weapon by wrapping the tang
with split spruce root. Eskimos, Mackenzie River 2,077
No. 6. Slashing weapon, Malay blade, razor-shaped ; tang driven into the end
of the hilt. The latter is octagonal in section at the butt, curved,
tapering forward, and ornamented with hair and basket work in
bamboo 154,130
No. 7. Nepaul sword (kookri) with curved, leaf -shaped blade, thick on the
back and chisel-edged ; hilt of wood, fitting close to the blade, which
has a shoulder on the tang ; sword breaker on the blade near the
tang. India 126,691
No. 8. Cutlass or machete. Blade of steel, thin, wide, curved at the end,
double grooved at the back ; tang flat, riveted between two pieces of
carved wood to form the grip 151,162
No. 9. Japanese saber with nearly straight blade, pentagonal in section ; grip
of wood, with brass cap and ferrule and ornamented with knotted
leather thong; guard against thrust.
No. 10. Cutlass. Straight two-edged blade ; brass hilt, with guard. American
Navy.
No. 11. Bronze sword. Blade long, leaf-shaped, and grooved, inserted into hilt
piece and riveted ; grip ridged ; pommel adorned with open work.
Roman.
No. 12. Gaboon sword, West Central Africa. Blade short, leaf -shaped, slightly
ribbed, finely chased, and punched at inner end. This portion is fur-
nished with sword-breaking attachment. Hilt elaborately adorned
with wirework 164,912
No. 13. Chinese sword. Blade tapering slightly, point angular, shoulder of
chased brass, covering the end of the scabbard ; grip of bone, fluted ;
pommel of chased brass, with figure of Good Fortune 167,002
HISTORY OF PIERCING PROJECTILE WEAPONS.
Piercing weapons are either held in the hand or attached to a shaft.
They are thrown from the hand, slung from the throwing stick, or
moved by elasticity. Those moved by elasticity may be discharged
from a blowtube, from a bow, from an arbalest, or from a firearm.
The progress of invention in the piercing projectile is marked in the
perfecting, firstly, of the projectile itself; secondly, of the elastic
device or projector; and, thirdly, of the mechanism of release. Illus-
trations of the projectile are not shown. The series presented here
serves to illustrate the progress of the bow and the arbalest, bringing
the development to the gun and the pistol.
SEBIES 5. — BOW AND ABBALEST.
Plate 23.
The bow is an elastic rod or stave which is bent, the two ends being
united by a tough string. A bolt is shot from this apparatus, either
to pierce, to cut, or to bruise. The first bows were unmodified staves;
