ART. 9. HISTORY OF INVENTIONS HOUGH. 25
No. 5. Ancient harpoon beads from Fi*ench caves In form of arrowheads with
many barbs ; made to fit loosely in tlie end of the shaft ; short connect-
ing line tied in a hole or around the tang 100,530, 8,145
No. 6. Ancient Peruvian harpoon heads, each having a bone shank and barbs of
hardwood seized on near the point. The butt fits in a socket, and the
head is attached to a line 176.795 (3)
No. 7. Ancient Peruvian harpoon head in three parts ; arrow-shaped blade
of quartz inserted and wrapped with cotton thread ; barb of bone
Avi-apped on the shank ; shank of wood, with butt terminating in a
cone to be inserted in the shaft 176,796
No. 8. Kodiak harpoon head, Alaska. Head of chert, set in a shank of bone and
wrapped with sinew thi'ead ; shank winged and round on the back ;
barbs three, made by saw cuts in the wing, butt tapering to fit in a
socket 73,292
No. 9. Harpoon head from Mackenzie River, similar to No. 8, except that
through trade with whalers and the Hudson Bay Company an iron
blade, riveted, replaces one of stone 7,420
No. 10. Harpoon heads of native copper and iron in one piece, from Sitka,
Alaska. The barbs are all on one side 6,564
No. 11. Harpoon head of iron, from the Haida Indians, of Queen Charlotte
Islands. Blade, barbs, and shank all in one piece; barbs alternating
on the two sides of the shank ; tang flattened and rounded for inser-
tion ; line braided from sinew 88,927
No. 12. Barbed seal harpoon from Norton Sound, Alaska, showing the barbed
head, the foreshaft and its attachment to the shaft, the martingale
or leader fastening the head to the shaft after the former is de-
tached 33,944
No. 13. Shell-point barbed whale harpoon with leader. Makah Indians, Van-
couver Island, British Columbia
No. 14. GafC hook from China with harpoon point and single barb, socketed to
be fixed on a shaft
No. 15. Barbed harpoon head or lily iron, of brass, for swordfish ; barbs hinged
to close in entering the fish and open for retrieving ; butt socketed ;
becket rove through line hole 103,037
SERIES 2. — TOGGLE HARPOONS.
Plate 25.
The toggle harpoon is a piercing retrieving weapon driven into the
animal by means of a shaft. The toggle is attached to the end of a
line, and when the shaft is withdrawn it turns crosswise in the body
of the game, enabling the hunter to retrieve. In the simplest forms
a pointed bone serves for a toggle, but in the whaling harpoons much
ingenuity has been exercised in perfecting the various parts, namely,
the blade, the hinge, the barb, the socket, the line, the loose shaft, and
the shaft. In some examples poison and explosives are used. There
is a form of toggle used in catching water birds, fish, and crocodiles
which is baited, and thus becomes a fishhook or gorge. The Aleuts
shoot the sea otter with a delicate arrow which has all the parts of the
toggle harpoon, and thus becomes a toggle arrow. For the smaller
