ART. 9. HISTORY OF INVENTIONS HOUGH. 27
SEEIES 3. — FISHHOOKS. •
Plate 26.
A fishhook is a device for catching aquatic animals by means of a
hook. It is a pointed but not a piercing implement. In its simplest
form it is merely a bent piece of hard substance pointed at one end
and attached to a rod at the other, becoming a gaff, or to a line and
becoming a fishhook, properly so called. The parts of a hook are
the fluke, the shank, and, later on, the barb. It is always attached
to a line held in the hand or suspended from a rod (in which case
its use is called angling) or attached to a fixed rope (becoming then
a set line or trawl). The manual part of angling devices are not
here considered. In order to entice the fish to take the hook, baits
and flies are employed. In the fishhook the two processes of hunt-
ing water animals are shown — capture and trapping. With the
gaff, fish rake, and all such devices the animal is seized and retrieved
involuntarily. This series has not undergone much elaboration ; but
in the baited hook, with its accessories, with the lure and with the
fly, human ingenuity has been well nigh exhausted. In the end the
taking of intelligent and wary fishes with tackle adapted to the
habits of the different species becomes a sport in which large sums
of money are paid for single outfits.
No. 1. Fijian fishhool£ consisting of a curved root, with tlie bend pointed for
flulie, and a line of coconut fiber fastened to the straighter shank_ 8,674
No. 2. Fishhooks from Sandwich Islands and from California, made from a
single piece of bone or shell. The first named has braided line,
3,676, 97,828
No. 3. Plain hooks of metal, Peru. A bit of wire bent, pointed at the shorter
end and attached to a line at the other 17,501
No. 4. Halibut hooks from North Pacific coast of America. Shank bent around
so as to form a fluke. The barb is provided by bending in the point of
the shank or by lashing on a spindle-shape bone, pointed inward- _ 72,648
No. 5. Chilkat halibut hook from Alaska, made of a forked stick. The smaller
prong acts as shank, with line tied to its middle. An Iron spike lashed
to the larger prong acts as a barb. It has for a float a piece of wood
carved in shape of a duck.
No. 6. Polynesian fishhook. Shank of stone or shell, perforated at the top for
a line ; fluke of bone or shell, without barb, perforated at the butt and
lashed to the shank 9,797, 2,844, 8,894
No. 7. Eskimo fishhook from Alaska. Stank of bone or stone carved in form
of lures ; fluke of metal fixed into the bottom of the shank,
89,550, 153,461
No. 8. Tomcod hook, Eskimo, Plover Bay, Siberia. Single barbed lure, as in
No. 11 46,264
No. 9. Fishhooks from North Pacific coast of America. Shanks of whalebone
and wood ; flukes of wood or bone, pointed and lashed at a small angle
to the bottom of the shank 74.188, 49,172
