ART. 9. HISTORY OF INVENTIONS HOUGH. 29
No. S. Polynesian sinker for giant squid, consisting of a shell for lure, a grooved
stone for sinker, and sharpened wire flukes in the wooden shaft to
excite the animal 4,842
No. 9. Lead sinker from Greece, with wire attachment 103,299
No. 10. Double-gafE hook or drail from Lapland. Lead sinker 28,169
No. 11. Double gaff or drail from Greenland. Sinker of lead, in the form of a
fish; extra line attached 103,098
No. 12. Whiffling mackerel line with four flies and spinner 103,112
No. 13. Eskimo fishing line fx'om Point Barrow for catching small cod through
the ice, complete ; hook, lure, sinker, baleen line, and reel 89,545
No. 14. Scotch codfish hook. Lead lure in form of a fish, painted, to which are
attached six barbed hooks 103,153
No. 15. English mackerel and pollock whifllng line with spinner and Challenger
bait 103,013
HISTORY OF WEAVING.
The textile art embraces all work in fibers, whether they be vegetal,
animal, or mineral. It includes the processes of procuring the fiber
from nature, the cleaning and haclding of material, the spinning of
yarn, the twisting of thread, twine, or rope, as well as weaving, net-
ting, knitting, lace making, and embroidery. Each one of these sev-
eral processes has had a development from some natural process, such
as the lacing of fiber, the twining of vines, or the web making of
spiders. The apparatus at first was of the most simple character,
cooperating with human fingers ; but in the unfolding of the art the
powers of nature and machinery have been called more and more into
play. The latest automatic looms are marvelous expressions of the
human mind speaking through mechanical devices.
Illustrations of this art are here limited to three series of objects,
each showing something of the steps of progress from simple to
highly perfected forms. Series 1 represents the spindle, series 2 the
shuttle, and series 3 the loom.
WEAVING BY HAND.
Plate 28. '
Zuni Indian woman loeaving. — Plaiting with the fingers, as well
as the simplest loom work, is done by persons sitting or stoop-
ing. The feet are not used, either in decussating the warp or in
throwing the shuttle, A simple harness of wood is provided, or one
is made by seizing each alternate warp thread and attaching it to a
rod. The figure here shown represents a Zuni Indian woman, of
New Mexico, weaving with the blanket loom. The attachment of
the warp to an upper and lower beam is an ingenious provision for
the tension. The shuttle is a short stick and the batten is a wooden
sword. Patterns are wrought by a process of darning the alternate
sheds.
3136— 22— ProcN.M. Vol.60 23
