30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
SERIES 1.— SPINDLE.
Plate 29.
A spindle is a device for twisting fiber. Human fingers formed
the first spindle, and there are now tribes living in British Columbia,
Alaska, and other parts of the world where excellent yarn and
thread are produced with no instrument whatever. The class of im-
plements called spindles begins with a simple, pointed rod which
acts also as a bobbin. It is the first device for converting rectilinear
into continuous circular motion. The stick is rolled on the thigh
with the palm of the hand, and the twisted fiber is then wound upon
this simple shaft. There were added the spindle whorl, the hook at
the top of the spindle to enable the operator to walk about, and the
fixed bearings by which the apparatus becomes a machine. The band
wheel and other devices for multiplying motion led through the
large wheel and the small or Saxon wheel to machine spinning.
No. 1. Simple form of spindle. A woodeu peg ou which yarn or thread is
wound.
No. 2. Silk winder. Forked bamboo rod spread for holding wound silk filament.
China.
No. 3. Spindle with whorl. Shaft of hard wood ; whorl of bone ; for winding
coarse cedar bark. British Columbia 20,640
No. 4, Central American spindle. Shaft of palm wood ; whorl a hard seed.
For spinning cotton yarn : 7,490
No. 5. Peruvian spindle, for fine staple. The thread is looped over the top of
the shaft when the spinner walks along 7.942, 17,510
No. 6. Tibetan spindle. Shaft a twig of cherry, with hook atop ; whorl a yak
bone. The hook on the spindle shaft enables the spinner to walk
about 167,248
No. 7. Tibetan spindle. Shaft a twig with notch and groove on the top ; whorl
of clay at the bottom of the shaft. The spinner walks about— 167,247
No. 8. Primitive spinning wheel. Spindle whorls of various materials and
forms 155,598, 195,572, 100,642
No. 9. Shaft set in bearings; whorl enlarged for flywheel. The beginning of
machine spindles. Finland 10
No. 10. Bobbin winder in which the spindle is driven by a primitive flywheel.
China 7,694
No. 11. Model of large spinning wheel for cotton and wool. Simplest form,
without speed pulley.
No. 12. Spindle of small or Saxon spinning wheel, with different sized pulleys
to regulate speed. The Saxon wheel works with treadle.
No. 13. Spindle used most generally in cotton-spinning machines in the United
States. Gift of George Draper and Sons.
SERIES 2. — SHUTTLE.
Plate 30.
The shuttle is a device for passing weft filaments between warp
filaments. This process was first performed by the human fingers
in plaiting, as in the mat making of the Polynesians, Africans, and
