10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
base of the first tarsal joint white; Avings fuliginous, subhyaline be-
yond the apex of the stigma ; venation dark brown.
Male. — Length 4 mm. The description of the female applies
well to the male. The hypopygidium broadly rounded apically;
color same as in the female, except the antenna are pale brown be-
neath ; antennae as in figures 14 and 27.
The above description of the female is made from specimens from
East Eiver, Connecticut. The male is redescribed from the unique
type and specimens from East River, Connecticut.
Oviposition. — The eggs are deposited in a double row along the
stem of a twig of the host. (Observation of Chas. R. Ely.)
Larva. — Length of full fed larva 13 mm. Head black excepting
pale clypeus. Body (fig. 59) pale yellowish with large black spots
in supraalar region and with black spots epipleurally which encroach,
or are confluent with a spot, upon the spiracular area; spined as
Trichiocani'pus gregarius and otherwise the same as that species
excepting epiproct which has large, undivided, black splotch.
Cocoon. — The cocoon is translucent, pale brownish, thin walled
cell, 9 mm. long by 3.5 mm. broad, irregularly oval, spun in rearing
on dirt or leaves at bottom or sides of cage.
Host. — Salix, one, or more than one species.
Seasonal History. — Gregarious feeders. Larvae collected in late
August or early September become prepupa and spin cocoons emerg-
ing as adults the following May and June, although occasionally a
few come out in late September of the same year, in which they
cocoon. Larvae collected in early July emerge as adults early the
following September.
Distribution. — Wood's Hole, Massachusetts and Weirs, New Hamp-
shire (Dyar) ; Maine, August 9, 1907; East River, Connecticut (Ely).
The type of adult came from Weirs, New Hampshire, and is
Dyar's No. 9 F; the record from Wood's Hole is based on a larva
which is under Dyar's No. N.
TRICHIOCAMPUS SIMPLICICORNIS (Norton).
Cladius simplicicornis Norton, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, vol. 2, 1869, p. 367.
Priophorus simplicicornis (Norton) Kirby, List Hymen. Brit. Mus., vol. 1,
1882, p. 101.— MAcGiLLn-RAY, Bull. 22, Conn. Geol. Nat. Hist. Surv., 1916
(1917), p. 109.
Type.— Cut. No. 10302, Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia.
This species is known only from the single type male, and is closely
allied to in^egularis (Dyar) but may be distinguished by the char-
acters given in the above key.
ii/aZe.— Length, 4.5 mm.; length of antenna, 3 mm. Anterior
margin of the clypeus with a rather deep U-shaped emargination,
the lobes narrow and acute ; middle fovea rather large, shallow, oval
