AUT. 9. HISTORY OF INVENTIONS— HOUGH. 31
American Indians. The simplest shuttle is a rod on which the
weft is wound. Improvements in the shuttle consist of devices for
guiding the apparatus more quickly and smoothly between the warp
filaments and end in the modern machine shuttle, which is auto-
matically driven with incredible rapidity backward and forward
between the "sheds " of the warp. The objects presented in this
series are suggestive of the salient features in the line of progress.
The Pueblo Indians use a rod of wood and wrap yarn upon it,
somewhat as children wind a kite string. A twig with a notch at
each end, a slat with closed points, as in netting needles, and hollow
stick pointed and furnished with the rudest sort of bobbin have
been used by different peoples in the hand epoch of culture. With
the domestication of the physical powers and the improvement of
the loom the shuttle became more and more effective.
No. 1. Primitive shuttle. Twig of osiGr, vvitli tliread simply wound about it,
151,738
No. 2. Wooden rod with weft wound diagonally about it.
No. 3. Shuttle or antler, pronged at each end. Eskimos of Norton Sound 33,266
No. 4. Rag-carpet shuttle. A block of wood notched roughly at each
end and used iu the domestic hand loom for weaving carpet
of rags, coarse chain of jute, cotton, and otlier materials.
No. 5. Japanese shuttle. Pronged at one end, closed at the other, with
" skewer " in the opening 19,408
No. 6. Eskimo shuttle. Prongs at either end, approaching each other and
pointed 163.781
No. 7. Hupa shuttle. Slender shaft, prongs at the ends, approaching like the
beak of a bird. California 131,151
No. 8. African shuttle. Body toggle-shaped ; bobbin a simple cylinder of wood
revolving on a splint of palm-leaf stem. Liberia 168,079
No. 9. Hand-loom shuttle. Body toggle-shaped ; bobbin a hollow reed working
on a splint of hard wood 7,688
No. 10. Early machine shuttle, of several pieces of wood and iron pointed ; open
on both faces ; bobbin a strip segment of bamboo running on a
splint of wood 153,172
SERIES 3. — LOOM.
Plate 31.
The loom is a framework on which weaving is done. Essentially
it consists, first, of two crossbeams, called the " yarn beam " and the
" cloth beam," on which the warp is laid evenly; secondly, the devices
for crossing the alternate warp threads, so as to form "sheds,"
through which the shuttle is passed backward and forward, and,
third, of some sort of batten, by means of which the weft is beaten
home after the shuttle has made an excursion.
Many other mechanical parts have been added to this machine from
time to time; but the simplest loom is a framework in which much
