ART. 9. HISTORY OF INVENTIONS HOUGH. 37
struck, and the rubbed, according to the method in which their
strings are set into vibration. The most simple form of the open-
stringed instruments is a musical bow, which is both picked and
struck, and the most complex forms are the harp, the dulcimer, the
harpsichord, and the piano. The stopped-stringed is one whose
vibratory length may be shortened, thus raising the pitch and making-
it possible to produce on a single string one or more octaves, with all
the chromatic intervals. Of the stopped strings a simple form is the
African zeze, which has only two frets and often but one string, while
the most complex forms are the lutes, guitars, and violins. The few
examples here shown illustrate the progress of invention in perfect-
ing the open-stringed instruments.
No. 1. Mahuga musical bow, from Mashonaland. Piece of cane with single
string of twisted cotton. Player holds it in his teeth to hear the
sound 167,518
No. 2. Angola musical bow. Plain stick for bow ; string of twisted hemp cord ;
gourd resonator tied to grip of the bow ; open part of goura rests
against the stomach of the player; inclining the gourd gives two or
three tones (pi. 41) 167,517
No. 3. Egyptian tambour or African lyre. Body boat-shaped, covered with raw-
hide ; neck a bent stick ; strings twisted fiber, reaching from median
line of the body to the overhanging neck ; tuning pegs transverse.
No. 4. Finnish open-stringed psaltery (kantele) . Wire strings, of graduated
length stretched over wooden pegs tightened by wire keys 95,690
No. 5. Kanoon, from Morocco. Body, a trapezoid ; gut strings of graduated
lengths tuned in groups of threes ; fixed bridge at oblique end ; raised
bridge resting on four squares of fish skin. Sound holes in sounding-
board.
No. 6. Italian psalteria or dulcimer. Trapeze formed body. Series of strings
of graduated length, tuned in groups of four each. Fixed bridges at
each end of sounding board, and two diagonal rows resting on it.
No. 7. Autoharp. Harmonics only are sounded. Inharmonic sounds dampened
by pressing down a series of spring bars 95,237
SEEIES 3. — WIND INSTKTJMENTS OF MUSIC.
Plate 42.
Wind instruments are divided into several classes, namely, horns,
flutes, flageolets, flue-organ pipes, and reed instruments. Horns are
musical tubes in which the lips of the player set the column of air
within the tube into vibration. The longer the tube of a horn the
lower the note produced, the greater the number of harmonics that
can be obtained by varying the pressure and velocity of sound pass-
ing through the tube. There are two methods of changing the pitch
of the fundamental note of a horn, and consequently its harmonics;
first, by adding to the length of the windway, either by a sliding
joint, as in the trombone, or by adding fixed lengths of the windway,
as in cornets and other similar instruments; second, by placing lat-
