38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.00.
eral holes in the tubing, which can be opened or closed by the finger
or by valves, which has the same effect of raising the pitch as by
shortening the vibratory length of the cords in a stringed instru-
ment. The old zink, serpent, and key bugle are of this class.
No. 1. B'iji conch shell with mouth hole in the side of the spiral 3,825
No. 2. Burmese horn made from the horn of a buffalo 95,509
No. 3. Finnish wooden horn (soittotorbi) , bottle-shaped. Made of two sections
of wood, with lonj^ neck, bound together with birch bark 95,684
No. 4. Bamboo horn from Philippine Islands, open at one end, closed at the
other. Mouthpiece a cylinder of bamboo set on the side ; bent bamboo
sections to imitate crooks and valves of European cornet 95,054
No. 5. United States Army regulation cavalry trumpet. Tube bent on itself in
two coils ; mouth trumpet-shaped 55,606
No. 6. French horn. Brass tube bent three times on itself ; mouth trumpet-
shaped. Tones are produced by the player's hand moved in the
bell 95,269
No. 7. Finnish trumpet (soitto sarvi) of ram's horn, with four finger holes on
the side of the instrument. Bore the natural cavity 95,689
No. 8. Key bugle with lateral holes closed by seven finger keys. Bore conical ;
size of finger holes corresponding to size of bore 95,652
No. 9. Ophicleido. Conical tube bent on itself; lateral holes closed by finger
keys ; size of finger holes corresponding to diameter of bore 95,272
No. 10. Trombone, old English sackbut. Cylindrical tube of brass, with sliding
joint long enough to give seven tones ; mouth trumpet shape. The
chromatic scale is thus produced.
No. 11. Cornet with cylindrical tube and trumpet-shaped bell. Piston valves
three, which add different fixed lengths of tubing to the wind-
way 55,602
SERIES 4. — KEED INSTRUMENTS OF MUSIC.
Plate 48.
Reed instruments are of two classes, namely, the double and the
single, and it is doubtful which is the more primitive. Should one
take a straw and bite off one end square, the act of biting the straw
would flatten the tube, and thus form a simple double reed, whereas
to form a single reed of such material one should take a section of
straw, open it at the lower end, with the upper end closed by the
joint, then with a sharp instrument cut a short distance into the
tube and split the section an inch or two, and he would form the
vibrating tongue of a single reed. Either method, with finger holes
cut or burnt in the tube, would form the rustic oaten pipe. Single
reeds are of two kinds — the beating and the free. The beating reed
is formed of wood, metal, etc., the width and length of its vibrating
tongue being sufficient to allow it to strike against the walls of the
tube or mouthpiece, as seen in the clarinet or instruments of its class.
The free reed is usually made of metal. In this form the vibrating
tongue is slightly narrower and shorter than the opening in the
metallic overplate, to which it is firmly fastened, so that it vibrates
