40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. (?0.
HISTORY OF THE CERAMIC ART.
Clay working is one of the arts most widespread in space and
time. The industry has had part in all phases of material progress,
and the imperishable products of the clay worker form one of the
most valuable indices of the stages of civilization. Included under
the head of ceramics are glass and enamel, which appear to have
developed with the facilities of increasing heat in ceramic and
metallurgical processes.
The ceramic art includes the production of all objects formed by
modeling, molding, and baking clay. The classes of products are
vessels, statuary, architectural details, and miscellaneous objects of
almost endless variety. This art has been practiced by nearly all
peoples that have passed into what is known as the upper status of
savagery. The beginnings were extremely simple, but the highest
products are marvels of industrial and esthetic achievement.
Thie history of this art, from its inception to its fullest develop-
ment, is illustrated here in epitome by two series of exhibits, one
comprising the products and the other the implements and appliances
of manufacture. The principal series begins with the rudest forms
of earthenware and ends with porcelain. The second begins with
archaic modeling tools and closes with the wheel and the mold. Fir-
ing devices are omitted for want of room, and no attempt is made
to present the varied and interesting phenomena of embellishment.
One form of pottery — the vase — is taken to represent the entire
range of products.
Short series of objects representing glass and enamel are placed
with ceramics proper, bearing the relations of offshoots from the
main stem.
Although no single people has passed through precisely the stages
of progress here indicated, the pottery industry of all civilized na-
tions must have had a somewhat analogous succession of phases.
These series, therefore, illustrate with reasonable accuracy the general
history of the art as practiced by mankind, and especially indicate
something of the growth and conquests of the human mind.
FIRST STEPS IN CERAMICS.
Plate 44.
Zun.i Indian women making fottery vases. — The woman is the
potter among very primitive peoples. She digs the clay, cleanses
and mixes it, and when the paste acquires the proper consistency
rolls it and builds the vessel. The rolls are added to the edges of the
incipient vessel and pressed into place, one after another, until the
desired heisrht is reached. Paddles and other tools are used in
