AKT. 1. NORTH AMERICAlSr SAWFLIES KOHWER. 11
in outline, and with a tubercule in center; ocellar basin very poorly
defined, especially above, hexagonal in outline; postocellar line sub-
equal with the ocellocular line; postocellar area defined laterally by
a shallow fovea, very slightly convex, with a median impressed line;
antenna strongly tapering, the third joint simple and about one-
fourth shorter than the fourth; stigma rather large, obliquely trun-
cate apically, broader near base; first intercubitus wanting; second
and third intercubiti subequal in length ; second recurrent the length
of an intercubitus beyond the second; radiellan cell completely
closed, without a distinct appendage; hypopygidium rather acutely
pointed. Black; knees, tibiae and tarsi yellowish, apical joint of
tarsi brownish; wings smoky brown, to the end of stigma, then sub-
hyaline; venation dark brown.
Redescribd from holotype.
Distribution. — Norway, Maine.
TRICHIOCAMPUS GREGARIUS (Dyar).
Figures 2, 11, 13, 25, 37, 43, 58.
Trichiocampus gregarius Dyae, Can. Ent., vol. 27, 1895, p. 191. — MacGil-
Li\'BAY, Bull. 22, Conn. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv., 1916 (1917), p. 110.
Type.— Cat. No. 3481, U.S.N.M.
Female. — Length 6.5 mm. ; length of antenna 4 mm. Cly]3eus shin-
ing with sparse, setigerous punctures, convex along the median axis,
the apical margin broadly arcuately emarginate, the lobes obtuse;
supraclypeal fovea punctiform; lateral supraclypeal area flat; ocellar
basin practically obsolete, not extending above the anterior ocellus;
frontal crest rather prominent medianly, hardly broken; middle
fovea shallow, broad; postocellar line distinctly longer than the
ocellocular line; ocellocular line longer than the ocelloccipital line;
antennal furrows obsolete; postocellar furrow distinct, straight;
postocellar area sharply defined laterally, convex and without
fovea (in some specimens there is an indication of a slight
median furrow ) ; antennae as in figures 13 and 25 ; stigma
short, two and one-third times as long as greatest width,
which is at about the middle, from which it tapers sharply
to the apex; first intercubitus obsolescent; second cubital cell dis-
tinctly longer than the third; second recurrent received at a dis-
tance somewhat greater than the length of the second intercubitus
from the base of the second cubital; sheath straight above with a
short oblique truncation apically and gradually tapering to a broad
base; ovipositor as in figures 37 and 43; lancets with three broad
teeth at the apex which are slightly emarginate at the middle, then
ten regular teeth which are pointed backwards, then two teeth which
are pointed backwards and emarginate beneath; the posterior mar-
gin of none of the transverse plates armed. Black; tibiae and tarsi
