ART. 9. HISTORY OF INVENTIONS HOUGH. 45
to the modeling of pastic materials, the shaping of metal or the
carving of wood, bone, ivory, or other hard substances. The history
of this art, briefly epitomized here, constitutes a most important
chapter in the record of human progress, for its products tell an
eloquent story of technical development and at the same time preserve
invaluable records of the history of religion, esthetics, and general
culture. It is observed that with very primitive peoples the shaped
forms are implements and utensils merely, but that with advancing
culture life forms, generally as symbols, gradually appear, and that
in civilization realistic and ideal phases are prevalent.
A striking illustration of the condition of the art among primitive
races is found in the work of the prehistoric peoples of central,
northern, and western Europe. Examples of this work are shown
in series 1. This phase of sculptural development is duplicated in
the more primitive stages of our native American work (series 2,
Nos. 1 to 6), but many of the American tribes had advanced far
beyond this, and, as seen in the continuation of series 2, had acquired
very considerable skill and taste in the treatment of life forms.
Series 3 illustrates the tools and utensils employed in the art.
riKST STEPS IN SCULPTUEE.
Plate 50.
Indian -flint flakers. — Primitive peoples shape stones by four pro-
cesses — flaking, pecking, abrading, and cutting. Fracture processes
were probably first to come into general use. Splinters or flakes
produced by striking one brittle stone against another become useful
as arrowheads, knives, perforators, and scrapers. Skillful flaking
enables the worlonan to shape implements with great neatness.
Larger implements were made by flaking an entire stone, thus re-
ducing it to the form of a blade. The most remarkable work of this
class known is that observed in a variety of large flint knife found
occasionally in ancient Egyptian tombs.
The figures here shown represent Powhatan Indians, of Virginia,
engaged in shaping rude implements from quartzite bowlders. The
scene is laid in the ancient quarries on Piney Branch, near Sixteenth
Street, in Washington City, where vast numbers of implements were
made by the aboriginal occupants of this part of the Potomac Valley.
SERIES 1. — EUKOPEAN SCXn^PTUEE.
Plate 51.
No. 1. Simplest forms of shaped stone ; paleolithic implements ; England.
Process: Flaking with stone hammers 172,644
No. 2. Simple flakes used as tools ; also cores from which they are struck.
Europe 99,881, 99,908
3136— 22— Proc.N.M.Vol.60 24
