14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
since then all American authors have followed this synonymy. There
seemed to be no good reason for doubting that the American species
was the same as the European and the writers* were much surprised,
when they compared American insects with literature and European
specimens, to find that isomerus did not agree with pcctinicomis.
Isomerus diifers from pectinicoimis in much the same manner as does
the European di/formis, and if the American species is the same as
any Euroj)ean species it is synonymous with difformis, and not pectiiii-
cornis, as previously supposed. The United States National Museum
contains about fifteen specimens of Cladii from the Palearctic region,
and while most of these agree with various species as they are
characterized, some few, especially specimens from Japan, do not
agree, and it seems that the understanding of the species in Europe
is not yet sufficiently stabilized to make it advisable to try to synony-
mize our American species with any of the European. Until it is
possible to carefully compare our American form with authentic
European specimens of all the species we prefer to use Norton's
name for our species. We have studied very many specimens, col-
lected throughout the range of the species in America, and have ob-
served but little variation. The absence of variation in the number
of rami on the male flagellum is especially noticeable. The extent
of yellow on the legs is also remarkably constant.
Feviale. — Length 5 to 6 mm.; length of antenna about 3 mm.
Clypeus coarsely punctured, convex, the anterior margin broadly,
arcuately emarginate, the lobes narrow and triangular in outline;
supraclypeal foveae deep, oval in outline; lateral supraclypeal area
convex near the eye, sharply sloping into the antennal foveae ; ocellar
basin completely wanting; frontal crest strong, broken medianly;
middle foveae small, oval in outline; postocellar line nearly twice as
long as the ocellocular line; ocellocular line slightly longer than the
ocelloccipital line; antennal furrows wanting; postocellar furrow
complete, well defined, straight, not broken by the furrow from the
anterior ocellus; postocellar area sharply defined laterally, very
gently convex ; antenna as in figures 17 and 28 ; wings as in figure 7 ;
sheath straight above, truncate apically, oblique to the broad base;
ovipositor as in figures 39 and 45; cerci long, slender. Black; tibiae
and tarsi white; apices of the posterior tibiae and the apical four
joints of the posterior tarsi brownish ; wings yellowish hyaline ; vena-
tion pale brown, costa and the stigma j^ellowish,
Male. — Length 5 mm. The above description of the female ap-
plies very well to this sex except that the four anterior tarsi are
usually brown and the costa is not so distinctly yellowish; hypopy-
gidiun narrowly rounded; antenna as in figures 16 and 29.
Described from numerous specimens taken in the vicinity of Wash-
ington, District of Columbia.
