12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
transverse rows. Spiracles black, slightly raised above the surface
and located on the longitudinal axis. Three slits, reddish yellow,
located on well-defined ridges. Button round and well formed.
Anal opening very small, located far below the spiracles.
Length, 2.75 mm. ; diameter, 1.25 mm.
6. PTILODEXIA TIBIALIS Desvoidy.
Very large; finely rugose, dull, dark red. Dorsum of puparium
nearly straight, the bottom broadly curved. Spiracles shining black,
with three slits, each slit located on top of a well-defined ridge. A
well-defined button. Spiracles located in a pit which is quite rugose
and chitinous. This pit is located in a protruded area which, from
the side view, appears like two large folds. Edges of pit broadly
rounded. Pit located entirely above the longitudinal axis. Near
the cephalic end on each side of the puparium is a horn-like projec-
tion. Anal opening just below longitudinal axis.
Length, 13 mm. ; diameter, 4.75 mm.
7. HILARELLA SIPHONINA Zetterstedt.
Small; smooth, dull, light red, with a depression on dorsum at
about the apical fifth. Bottom edge nearly straight. Cephalic end
of puparium slightly pointed and showing a trace of three seg-
ments. Spiracles are dark brown and located on the upper part of
a deep pit. This pit is located mostly below the longitudinal axis,
with but the upper edge of the pit touching the axis. The edge of
this elliptical opening is black. Each spiracle has three slits nearly
perpendicular and a definite button. Anal opening located on the
lower or ventral edge of puparium.
Length, 5.25 mm.; diameter, 1.75 mm.
8. PACHYOPHTHALMUS FLORIDENSIS Townsend.
Small; elongate, dull, reddish yellow, tapering slightly towards
the caudal end, which has a small, deep pit of a darker red color;
black around the edge of this pit; the ventral surface slightly de-
pressed. Spiracles located inside the pit, on the upper surface.
The plates are separated by a space nearly equal to the width of one
plate. Stigmal plates are black around the edge, with the central
part deep reddish yellow. The plate is broad above, tapering down
to a very broadly rounded point below. Each plate has three
straight, parallel slits pointed at their lower end. Button large,
round, and located at the lower end of the plate. Pit and spiracles
are located on but entirely below the longitudinal axis. Anal open-
ing large, located a short distance below the pit.
Length, 5 to 6.5 mm. ; diameter, 1.5 to 2 mm.
