AET. 10. PUPAKIA OF 100 MUSCOID FLIES GREENE. 13
9. MEGAPARIA OPACA Coquillett (Megapariopsis opaca Coqnillett).
Large; elongated, very finely rugose, dark red. Upper surface
faintly depressed. Spiracles shining black, located on the sides
of a deep depression, which is coarsely rugose. The upper edge of
this pit-like depression is rounded, lower part more flattened and
projects off rather sharply, along the bottom, from the puparium.
Below the edge of this depression is a prominent, rugose surface.
Anal opening just below this prominence. Each spiracle has three
slits, which are slightly yellowish; also a prominent button. On
each side of the puparium, about the apical fourth, is a cylindrical,
reddish yellow tubercle.
Length, 11 mm. ; diameter, 3.5 mm.
10. ZELIA VERTEBRATA Say.
Very large, subshining, dark red. Upper surface in profile, nearly
straight. The upper half of the posterior end flattened. Spiracles
black, slightly raised above the surface and located in a shallow
pit-like depression; the depression above the longitudinal axis.
Each plate has three slits nearly parallel, each slit on top of a well-
defi.ned ridge. Button round. Anal opening very remote from
spiracles, well below the longitudinal axis. On the side, near the
apex, is a small, horn-like projection, the anterior spiracle.
Length, 13.75 mm. ; diameter, 4 mm.
11. BESKIA AELOPS Walker.
Elongated; shining, yellowish red, tapering gradually, smaller
toward the caudal end. Spiracles decidedly tuberculate, shining red,
diverging, nearly touching at the base. The tubercles are roughly
granular. The upper portion slightly larger, smooth, shining and
divided into three sections or lobes. Each lobe has from about
nine to eleven very small slits, each on a small elevation or ridge.
Button very small, round. Spiracles located on the longitudinal
axis, mostly below the line. Anal opening very small, on the under
side of the puparium, the distance a little more than the length of
one tubercle.
Length, 7 mm.; diameter, largest, 2 mm.; smallest, 1 mm.
12. OESTROPHASIA OCHRACEA Bigot (Ormia ochracea Bigot).
Large ; dull-red puparium. Spiracles subshining, black, protuber-
ant, well separated at the base, slightly larger at the base. Spiracles
located on apex of tubercles. Each plate has three serpentine slits
and a round button near the middle. Spiracles located just above
longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, located quite remote from
the spiracles.
Length, 7 mm. ; diameter, 3.75 mm.
3136— 22— Proc.N.M.Vol.60 25
