14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol.60.
IS. PHASMOPHAGA ANTENNALIS Townsend.
Medium-sized; dull, black puparium. Some specimens have a
faint reddish tinge. Spiracles somewhat triangular in form, lo-
cated on very prominent protuberances, which touch at the base
and are separated by nearly their own width at the apex. Each
spiracular plate has three lobes, and each lobe has very irregular,
dark-yellow slits located on a shiny, black surface. Button well
defined, located centrally on longitudinal axis. Anal opening small,
located some distance below the spiracles.
Length, 7.5 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm.
14. COQUILLETTINA PLANKII Walton (Hemithrixion plankii Walton).
Medium-sized; dull, blackish-red puparium. Spiracles shining
black, located on well-defined protuberances, which touch at base
and are separated at apex by nearly their own width. Slits are
angular and located on top of well-defined ridges. Button well
marked. Protuberances located above but touching longitudinal
axis. Anal opening very small, located near middle of lower half
of end view.
Length, 6.5 mm.; diameter, 2.75 mm.
16. BELVOSIA BIFASCIATA Fabricinf (Latreillemyia blfasciaU Fabricias).
Very large; dull black puparium. Caudal end larger than an-
terior end. Spiracles located on the dorsmn from one-quarter to
one-third the distance from the caudal end; slightly raised above
the surface of the puparium, with three very long serpentine slits,
which are slightly yellowish. Button round, distinct. Segmental
lines plainly seen on the dorsum. Anal opening small, indistinct,
crescent-shaped, located just above longitudinal axis.
Length, 14 mm.; diameter, 6.5 mm.
16. LEUCOSTOMA ATRA Towniend (Dionea atra Townsend).
Small ; smooth, elliptical, dull yellowish red. Spiracles protuber-
ant, black, shining at apex, dull and finely granular at base, located
on longitudinal axis, mostly below the line, each with two serpen-
tine slits situated on top of a prominent protuberance, these pro-
tuberances narrowly separated at base; inside flat surfaces nearly
parallel. Anal opening less than width of the protuberance from
same.
Length, 4 mm. ; diameter, 1.5 mm.
17. MICROPHTHALMA DISJUNCTA Wiedemann.
Very large; dull, dark red, with a slight depression on the dorsum.
Spiracles protuberant, located high up, subdorsally. They are shin-
ing black; three serpentine slits and a well-defined button to each;
