ART. 10. PUPARIA OF 100 MUSCOID FLIES— GREENE, 15
separated by a space equal to the length of one spiracle. Anal open-
ing large, located far below the spiracles.
Length, 12.5 mm. ; diameter, 5 mm.
18. EXORISTA LOBELIAE Coquillett.
Large; subshining, dark red or reddish black; segmentation fairly
well marked with small punctures. Spiracles tuberculate. Stigmal
plates blackish, located on distinct tubercles. These tubercles are
separated at their base by a distance equal to one and one-half times
the length of one plate. Each plate has three serpentine slits, one
above and two below. Button distinct, round, located near center
of plate. Immediately below the spiracles is a well-defined, rounded,
deep reddish-yellow tubercle, with an indentation on the apex.
Spiracles located on longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, very
remote from spiracles.
Length, 6.75 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm.
19. GYMNOSOMA FULIGINOSA Desvoidy.
Medium size ; dull, dark red to a very dark reddish brown. Some
specimens vary slightly by having the caudal end somewhat en-
larged. In other specimens, the general outline is more elliptical.
Spiracles are shining black, protuberant, touching at the base, sepa-
rated by a V-shaped space. Each spiracle has three serpentine slits.
Button large, round, not very well defined. Anal opening small,
just beneath the spiracles. Spiracles located on the longitudinal
axis.
Length, 6.5 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm.
20. OCYPTERA CAROUNAE DesToidy.
Medium size; elongated, dull, dark red; caudal end slightly
pointed; surface microscopically rugose. Spiracles protuberant,
shining black, with a granular, narrow area at the base. Spiracles
are connected at the base and the plates are separted by a V-shaped
space. Each plate is divided into three lobes. Each lobe has a
reddish-yellow, serpentine slit. Button large, round. Anal open-
ing small, located just below the spiracles. Spiracles located on the
longitudinal axis.
Length, 7 mm. ; diameter, 2.4 mm.
21. EXORISTA CONFINIS Fallen (Aplomyia confinis Fallen).
Large; shining, dark red, with the segments well marked with
puncture-like marks. Largest diameter about the posterior third;
posterior end somewhat pointed. Stigmal plates blackish, located
about the length of one plate below the longitudinal axis; plates
slightly raised above surface and separated by a space about half
