16 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
the width of one plate. Each plate has three yellowish, serpentine
slits, one above and two, S-shaped, below. Button round, well de-
fined. Area between the plates with a slight ridge broadening below,
becoming somewhat tubercular, with an uneven depression in the
center.
Length, 7 mm. ; diameter, 3.25 mm.
2J. TRICHOPODA PENNIPES Fabricius (Trichopodopsis pcnnipes Fabricius).
Large ; dull, dark red. Spiracles raised well above the surface of
puparium, shining black, each with three serpentine slits and a
well-defined button; located on longitudinal axis narrowly sepa-
rated at the base and more widely separated at the apex. Anal open-
ing quite close to spiracles.
Length, 8 mm. ; diameter, 3.75 mm.
23. TRICHOPODA LANIPES Fabricius (Galactomyia lanipcs Fabricius).
Quite large; dull, dark reddish. Upper surface very faintly de-
pressed. Spiracles shining black, slightly raised above surface, with
three serpentine, well-defined slits. Button not very clearly defined.
Spiracles located nearly the length of one plate below the longitudi-
nal axis. Inner edges of the spiracular plates parallel and separated
by a very narrow space. Anal opening small, close to spiracles ; anal
plate transversely elliptical.
Length, 10 mm. ; diameter, 5 mm.
24. PHOROCERA SAUNDERSII Williston (Madrcmyia saundersii Williston).
Medium size; dull, dark red. Spiracles shining black, slightly
raised above the surface ; plates separated by a space equal to one half
the width of one plate. Between the plates are two well-marked
grooves the same length as the plates. Each plate has four very
small, serpentine, yellow slits. Button large, round, well defined.
Spiracles located on the upper side of the horizontal axis. Below
them is a prominent, transverse elevation slightly blackened. Anal
opening small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 7 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm.
25. EXORISTA BOARMIAE Coquillett (Eusisyropa boarmiae Coquillett).
Medium size ; subshining, yellowish red. Spiracles shining black,
deep reddish in center, slightly raised above the surface, widely sepa-
rated, space equal to one-half the width of one plate. Each plate has
four serpentine, yellowish slits; sides of plate very finely rugose.
Button large, round, deep red. Spiracles located nearly the height
of one plate above the longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, far
below the spiracles.
Length, 5.5 mm, ; diameter, 2.5 mm.
