AUT. 10. PUPAEIA OF 100 MUSCOID FLIES GKEENE. 17
26. HYPHANTROPHAGA HTPELANTRIAE Townsend.
Medium size; siibshining, yellowish red. Spiracles shining black,
very dark red in the center, slightly raised above the surface, widely
separated, the space nearly equal to the width of one plate. Eacli
plate has four serpentine, yellowish slits. The two bottom slits re-
semble the letter S, with a long tail. Spiracles located a little more
the height of one plate above the longitudinal axis. Button rather
large, round, flat, and reddish. Anal opening small, far below the
spiracles.
Length, 6 mm. ; diameter, 2.25 mm.
27. EXORISTA EUORTAE Townsend (Oxcxorista eudryae TowniienA).
Medium size; rather shining, dark red. Spiracles shining black,
slightly raised above the surface, widely separated, the space about
equal to twice the width of one plate. Between and below the spir-
acles is a prominent, ridgelike elevation much higher than the stig-
mal plates. Each plate has three serpentine, yellowish slits. (Some-
times the two slits at the bottom are connected and form one long
slit.) Button large, round, well defined. Anal opening large, far
below the spiracles. Spiracles are located on the upper side of the
longitudinal axis.
Length, 7 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm.
Note. — In one specimen, on one plate only, the two bottom slits
are united, showing only two slits instead of three.
28. FRONTINA FRENCHII Williston (Achaetoneura frenehii Williston).
Large; dull, deep red to nearly black. Spiracles only slightly
raised above puparia; black on sides and yellowish red on upper
surface ; located about the width of one stigmal plate above the lon-
gitudinal axis and separated by a space nearly equal to width of one
plate. Three serpentine slits to each stigmal plate and a well-defined
button. Anal opening very remote, quite near the lower edge of the
end view.
Length, 8.5 mm. ; diameter, 4 mm.
29. LINNAEMYIA FULVICAUDA Walton (Gymnochaetopsis fulvicauda Walton).
Medium-sized; faintly rugose, dull reddish puparium. Spiracles
slightly raised above surface, shiny black above and faintly granular
around lower edge, located on longitudinal axis, mostly above, nearly
touching above and more widely separated below. Each spiracle
divided into three lobes, each lobe with a serpentine, nearly black
slit. A distinct round button. At the bottom of and between the
stigmal plates is a prominent, raised area which terminates in a
