18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
point on each side; a transverse depression in the middle of same.
Anal opening small and located at the lowest fourth in the end
view.
Length, 5.5 mm. ; diameter, 2.25 mm.
30. FRONTINA ALETIAE Riley (RUeyeUa aletiae Riley). FRONTINA ARCmPPIVORA
Williston (Ypophaemyia malaeoaomae Townsend).
The puparia of these two species are almost identical; small,
smooth, elliptical, dull, dark yellowish red. Spiracles slightly raised
above surface of pupa, reddish black, located slightly above longi-
tudinal axis, each having three serpentine slits. Button large, round,
and near center of spiracular plate. Anal opening directly on center.
Length, 5.25 mm ; diameter, 2 mm.
31. CLAUSICELLA TARSALIS CoqailleU (Phylacteropoda tarsalis Coqnillett).
Very small; subshining, yellowish red. Caudal end decidedly
protuberant, smooth, dark red. On each side at the base of the
tubercle is a large, blackish tubercle; above are two smaller tuber-
cles, near the center ; spiracles located on the apex of this large pro-
tuberance widely separated. Each plate is blackish, somewhat leaf-
shaped, with five slits, each on a small ridge. Button large, round.
Protuberance below the longitudinal axis, the upper edge at the base
touching the axis line. Anal opening very small, some distance
below the tubercle.
Length, 3 mm. ; diameter, 1.5 mm.
32. TACHINOPHYTO TORTRICIS Coquillett (Tortriciophaga tortricis Coquillett).
Small; yellowish red, decidedly tuberculate on the posterior end.
Spiracles very protuberant, nearly cylindrical, contiguous at the
base, widely divergent at apex, shining black, with a roughened,
granular band in the middle, located on top of a large tubercle the
height of which is about half its diameter. Spiracular plates on
top of the cylindrical protuberances. Each plate has five very
small, reddish slits, each on top of a faintly defined ridge. Button
large, round, fairly well defined, and near the center of the plate.
Anal opening very small, far below the spiracles. Spiracles lo-
cated far above the longitudinal axis.
Length, 4 mm. ; diameter, 1.75 mm.
33. STURMIA PILATEI Coquillett.
Small; reddish yellow, subshining, and nearly straight on the
ventral surface. Just below the apex of the posterior end is a faint
depression, giving the posterior end a faint appearance of being a
large tubercle. Spiracles are subshining, black, and faintly reddish
in the center, widely separated, the space almost equal to the width
of one plate. Each plate has three yellow slits, each on a broad,
