AET. 10. PUP ARIA OF 100 MUSCOID FLIES GREENE. 21
42. LESKIOMIMA TENEKA Wiedemann.
Medium size; dull, yellowish red; posterior end tuberculate;
tubercle bent slightly upward. Spiracles protuberant, shining black,
about or nearly touching at the base. Stigmal plates widely separated
by a V-shaped space between them. Each plate has three small,
nearly straight slits, each located on a rounded, well-developed ridge,
which is nearly round; upper and lower ridge higher and more de-
veloped than the middle one. Button large, round, located on the
inner side of each plate. Anal opening large, located far below the
spiracles. Spiracles located on but mostly above the longitudinal
axis.
Length, 6 mm ; diameter, 2 mm.
43. PARAPLAGIA SPINULOSA Bigot (Blepharieenia spinnlosa Bieot).
Medium size ; dull, nearly black ; posterior end with a large round
tubercle, the bottom of which is on the longitudinal axis. Spiracles
shinging black, raised above the surface; stigmal plates touching.
Each plate has three slits located on well-marked ridges. Button
round, located on inner edge of plate, and well marked. Spiracles
located on the large tubercle, above its center. Anal opening fairly
large and far below the tubercle.
Length, 7 mm ; diameter, 3.5 mm.
44. METACHAETA HELYMUS Walker.
Small ; dull, dark yellowish red ; posterior end slightly tuberculate,
the apex of which is faintly depressed; spiracles shining reddish
black, narrowly separated and located on the longitudinal axis. Each
spiracle has three slits. Each slit is located on top of a small, well-
defined ridge. Button round, well defined. Anal opening fairly
large and at the base of the tubercle.
Length, 4.75 mm. ; diameter, 1.75 mm.
45. ALOPHORA PULVEREA Coquillett (Oedematopteryx pulvere* Coquillett).
Very small; dull, pale yellow; upper surface of puparium nearly
straight, lower surface broadly rounded. Spiracles shining black,
protuberant, conical, with a small, vertical groove on the apex be-
tween the stigmal plates. Each plate is long, narrow, slightly tri-
angular, with three yellowish slits, each located on a well-defined
ridge ; the two inner slits rather long, the middle one much shorter.
Button quite small. Anal opening small and reddish. Spiracles lo-
cated slightly above the longitudinal axis.
Length, 3.5 mm. ; diameter, 1.25 mm.
