22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
46. PHOBANTHA OCCIDENTIS Walker (Phoranthella morrisoni Townsend).
Very small ; dull, reddish yellow ; sharply pointed on posterior end.
Spiracles protuberant, shining black, faintly reddish along the apical
edge and pointing downward. From above the spiracles are solid at
the base, and the spiracular plates are well separated by a V-shaped
space. Each plate is triangular in shape and has three slits, each on
top of a well-defined reddish-yellow ridge ; the upper slit the longest
and the middle the shortest. Between the slits the surface is deep
reddish. Button large, rounded, and reddish. Spiracles located on
the longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, just below the spiracles.
Length, 2 mm. ; diameter, 1 mm.
47. FRONTENA ANCILLA Walker (Frontiniella parancilla Townsend).
Small; subshining, dark red. Spiracles shining black, located on
prominent protuberances, which are granular around the basal half,
smooth on upper half. They are separated by a space equal to the
length of one stigmal plate. Each plate has three small tubercles on
the surface. On the top of each is located the slit. Button small,
round, and rather weak. Spiracles located on the longitudinal axis.
Anal opening small, located below about twice the length of the
protuberance.
Length, 5 mm.; diameter, 1.75 mm.
48. CLYTIOMYIA FLAVA Townsend.
Small; dull red. Spiracles protuberant, shining black, roughly
granular at the base. From above they are widely separated by a
V-shaped space. Spiracles triangular, each having three faintly-
yellow slits, each slit on top of a very well-defined ridge. Button
round, well defined. Anal opening very small and quite close to
spiracles. Spiracles located on the longitudinal axis.
Length, 5 mm. ; diameter, 2.25 mm.
49. PLAGIA AMERICANA Van der Wulp.
Medium size ; dull, dark red ; posterior end of the puparia notice-
ably larger than the anterior end. Spiracles are decidedly protuber-
ant, shining black, touching at the base and widely divergent at the
apex. The bases of these protuberances are covered with small spines.
Stigmal plates on top of the protuberances. Each plate has three
small slits, each on top of a well-defined ridge. Anterior spiracles
well developed, shining black, tuberculate, and widely separated.
Button large, located on the inner edge of the plate. Anal opening
small, far below the spiracles, and slightly below the longitudinal
axis. Spiracles located far above the longitudinal axis.
Length, 6.25 mm. ; diameter, large, 3 mm. ; small, 2 mm.
