ART. 10. PUPARIA OF 100 MUSCOID FLIES GREENE. 23
50. ACEMTIA DENTATA Coquillett (Acemyiopsis dentata Coquillett).
Medium size; dull, blackish red, very finely rugose; posterior end
slightly tuberculate. Spiracles black, protuberant, touching at the
base; apex separated by a space nearly equal to the width of one
plate ; the sides roughly granular ; apex shining, divided into three
lobes. The slits are yellowish and located on these lobes. Button
large and round. Spiracles located above on the longitudinal axis.
Anal opening located below, about the length of one stigmal plate.
Length, 6 mm. ; diameter, 2.75 mm.
51. EUTRIXA EXILE CoquUlett.
Medium size; shining, dark red; posterior end greatly enlarged;
anterior half of the dorsum with a deep depression. Spiracles black,
on small tubercles, which have a granular surface. Spiracles widely
separated, the distance nearly equal to twice the basal diameter of
the tubercles. Each stigmal plate has three slits, each one of which
is on top of a sharply defined ridge. Button small, round, located on
upper edge. Spiracles located far above longitudinal axis. Anal
opening large, located just below the longitudinal axis.
Length, 7 mm. ; diameter, 2.75 mm.
52. PHOROCERA ERECTA Coquillett.
Medium-sized; subshining, yellowish red. Spiracles shining,
mostly dark, yellowish red, blackish around the edge, widely sepa-
rated, the space equal to about three-fourths the width of one plate.
Each plate has four slits. The three upper ones are concaved and the
lower slit convex. Each slit on top of a broad, yellow, flat ridge.
Button very large, round, reddish yellow. Spiracles are located
very slightly above the longitudinal axis. Anal opening large, far
below the spiracles.
Length, 5.5 mm. ; diameter, 2 mm.
53. CRYPTOMEIGENIA THEUTIS Walker.
Medium to large size; dull, dark red; concave on the dorsum;
spiracles shining black, distinctly raised above the surface, well
separated, the space equal to the width of one plate. Each plate has
six (rarely five) nearly straight, deep-yellow slits. Button large,
round, well defined. Spiracles located above the longitudinal axis,
a little more than the length of one stigmal plate. Anal opening
large, far below the spiracles.
Length, 6.5 to 9 mm. ; diameter, 2.75 to 4.5 mm.
64. BIOMYIA LACHNOSTERNAE Townsend (Viviania lachnoatemae Townsend).
Medium size; subshining, dark red; posterior end much larger
diameter than the anterior end. Spiracles shining black, slightly
