24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
raised above the surface, narroAvly separated by a space about one-
fourth the width of one plate. Each plate has six small, slightly an-
gular, yellowish slits on a flattened surface. Button large, round,
near inner edge. Anal opening small, far below the spiracles.
Spiracles located little more than the length of one plate above the
longitudinal axis.
Length, 7 mm. ; diameter, large, 3.65 mm. ; small, 2.5 mm.
65. CRYPTOMEIGENIA AURIFACIES Walton.
Medium size; dull, dark red; surface of puparium roughened or
granular to nearly rugose; caudal end much larger in diameter.
Stigmal plates shining black, widely separated, space equal to width
of one plate. Each plate is flattened on the dorsal surface and deep
reddish to black. Each plate has six yellowish slits, which are nearly
straight. Some specimens show the slits more angulated than shown
in the drawing. Button large, round. Anal opening large, located
far below the stigmal plates. Spiracles located far above the longi-
tudinal axis.
Length, 6.5 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm. at largest diameter.
56. HYALOMYODES TRIANGULIFERA Locw.
Very small; dull, yellowish red; a depression on the dorsum of
the anterior half ; segmental lines of the last three or four segments
plainly seen on the dorsum. Spiracles shining black, narrowly
separated at the base ; slightly raised above surface. Each stigmal
plate has three very small, yellowish slits. Button small, not very
plainly seen. Spiracles located on longitudinal axis. Anal opening
small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 3 mm. ; diameter, 1.4 mm.
Some puparia do not have the segmental lines and the dorsal de-
pression.
57. ADMONTIA HYLOTOMAE Coquillett (Hylotomomyia hylotomae Coquillett).
Medium-sized; subshining, red to reddish yellow. Spiracles shin-
ing black, slightly raised above the surface, widely separated, space
equal to one-half of one plate ; each plate with three yellowish slits,
each located on top of a well-defined ridge. Button reddish, promi-
nent, rather quadrate in shape. Spiracles far above the longitudinal
axis. Anal opening small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 7 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm.
58. MASICERA. species (near EXILIS).
Medium-sized; dull yellow; somewhat pointed on posterior end
Spiracles shining black, slightly raised above the surface and sepa-
rated by a very narrow space at the bottom. Each plate has three
slits, each on top of a well-defined ridge; slits yellowish red. Button
