ART. 10. PUPARIA OF 100 MUSCOID FLIES GREENE. 25
large, prominent, and red. Spiracles located a short distance abore
the longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, reddish, located some dis-
tance below the spiracles.
Length, 5.5 mm.; diameter, 2 mm.
59. FRONTINA ARMIGERA Coquillett (Encelatoria armigera Coquillett).
Small; dull, yellowish red. Spiracles shining black, slightly
raised above the surface, separated by a space equal to one-half the
width of one plate. Each plate has three reddish slits, each on top
of a well-defined ridge. Button large, round, prominent, extending
beyond the edge of the plate. Spiracles located some distance above
the longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 6 mm. ; diameter, 2.25 mm.
60. AMOBIA CONFUNDENS Townsend (Amobiopsis confundens Townsend).
Medium-sized; subshining, dark red; posterior end distinctly
rugose. Spiracles black, subshining, slightly raised above the sur-
face, widely separated by a space equal to about one and one-half
times the width of one spiracular plate. Each plate has three broad,
yellowish slits nearly parallel and depressed along the center, each
on a distinct ridge. Button small, round. Anal opening small, far
below the spiracles. Spiracles located just above the longitudinal
axis.
Length, T.25 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm.
61. EXORISTA AMPLEXA Coquillett (Masiceropsis amplexa CoquUlett).
Large; dull, dark red. Spiracles about flush with the surface of
the puparium, in a faint triangular depression. Spiracles shining
black, well separated; three slits reddish. Button round. Just below
the spiracles is a broad tubercle. Spiracles located on longitudinal
axis. Anal opening far below the spiracles. Posterior end of
puparium around the stigmal area is rugose.
Length, 10 mm. ; diamet'ir, 4 mm.
62. CHAETOGAEDIA ANALIS Van der Wulp.
Very large; cylindrical, dull, dark red, darker on caudal end.
Slightly but broadly constricted on the dorsum near posterior end.
Caudal end rather blunt. Spiracles decidedly raised, shining black,
and each formed into three well-defined lobes, and each lobe with a
well-defined slit on the dorsal ridge; the inner and outer slit with an
indentation at the middle. Button well defined. Spiracles located
on longitudinal axis and separated by a space about equal to the
inner lobe. Anal opening located at about the lowest fourth of the
end view.
Length, 10 mm. ; diameter, 4 mm.
