26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. «0.
63. ARCHYTAS ANALIS Fabricius.
Large; dull, dark red, with a faint indication of a depression or
stricture near the posterior end. Spiracles shining black, slightly
raised above the surface, separated by a space nearly equal to the
width of one plate. Each plate has three slits, each located on top
of a well-defined ridge. Button fairly large, round. Spiracles above
longitudinal axis, about two-thirds the width of one plate. Anal
opening very small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 10.5 mm. ; diameter, 4.75 mm.
64. ARCHYTAS HYSTRIX Fabricins (Jurinopsis floridensis Townsend).
Very large ; cylindrical, dull, dark red ; constricted near the caudal
end, forming a distinct lobe or segment at the end of the puparium,
which is much larger at the base. Spiracles shining black, well
raised, and on longitudinal axis; three reddish-yellow slits, each
located along the upper edge of a well-defined ridge. Button round,
well defined. Spiracles separated by a distance nearly equal to the
width of one spiracle. Anal opening down near lower edge of end
view.
Length, 14 mm. ; diameter, 6 mm.
65. ARCHYTAS LATERALIS Macqaart (Makasinocera lateralis Macqnart).
Large; subshining, dark red, rugose, upper surface nearly flat;
posterior end flattened on the upper half. Spiracles shining black,
located above the longitudinal axis a distance about equal to the
width of one plate. Each plate has three slits, each on top of a well-
defined ridge. Button small, round. Anal opening small, far below
the spiracles.
Length, 12.5 mm.; diameter, 5.75 mm.
66. GONIA CAPITATA De Geer.»
Large; dull, dark red. Spiracles shining black, slightly raised
above the surface, separated by a space equal to one-half the width
of one plate. Each plate has three slits, each on top of a well-
defined ridge. Button round, well defined. Spiracles located just
above the longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, far below the stig-
mal plates.
Length, 10 mm. ; diameter, 4.25 mm.
67. GONIA EXUL Williston.
Large; dull, dark red. Spiracles shining black, decidedly raised
above the surface, widely separated at the base, the distance equal
to about one-half to two-thirds the width of one plate. Each plate
has three slits, black, each located on top of a very well-defined
* The adult, a female, has the characters of Gonia sequax Williston.
