AET. 10. PUPARIA OF 100 MUSCOID FLIES GREENE, 27
ridge. Button large, round. Spiracles slightly above the longi-
tudinal axis. Anal opening large, far below the spiracles.
Length, 10.5 nun.; diameter, 4.75.
68. BLEPHARIPEZA ADUSTA Loew (Rileymyia adusta Loew).
Large; dull, dark red. Spiracles black, shining, slightly raised
above the surface. Stigmal plates separated by a distance equal
to about one-third the width of one plate. Each plate has three
reddish slits, each at the top of a well-defined ridge. Button large,
round. Spiracles above, almost on the longitudinal axis. Anal
opening small, far below the spiracles. Just below the stigmal
plates is a somewhat diamond-shaped elevation with a median de-
pression.
Length, 8 mm.; diameter, 4.5 mm.
69. MASICERA EUFITCmAE Townsend (Phrynolydella cufitehiae Townsend).
Very large; dull, dark red, very finely rugose. Spiracles shining
black, slightly raised above the surface, separated by space nearly
equal to the width of one stigmal plate. A small indentation just
above and between the stigmal plates and one below each plate.
Below the spiracles is a transverse elongated elevation with an
elongated, central depression. Spiracles located on longitudinal
axis. Anal opening small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 9.5 mm.; diameter, 4.5 mm.
70. LINNAEMTIA COMTA Falldn (Bonnetia comta Fallen).
Large; dull, reddish yellow. Spiracles shining black, slightly
raised above the surface, widely separated, the space nearly equal
to one-half the width of one plate. Each plate has three curved
slits, each on top of a well-defined ridge. Button large, round.
An elongated ridge extending up between the plates, larger and
broader at the base. Spiracles far above the longitudinal axis.
Anal opening small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 10 mm.; diameter, 4 mm.
71. PELETERIA ROBUSTA Wiedemann (Sphyromyia robuata Wiedemann).
Very large; robust, dull, dark red. Spiracles shining black, de-
cidedly raised above the surface of the puparium. Stigmal plates
well separated; space between them nearly equal to the width of
one plate. Each plate has three long slits, each slit on a large,
well-defined ridge. Two upper slits are nearly parallel; the upper
one is horizontal. Button large, round, flat. Anal opening large,
located far below the spiracles. Spiracles located just above the
longitudinal axis.
Length, 11.5 mm.; diameter, 5 mm.
