28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
72. TACHINA MELLA Walker (Exorista mella Walker).
Small; dull, yellowish red. Spiracles subshining, slightly raised
above the surface, separated by a distance equal to about one-half
of one plate. Each plate has three reddish slits, each on a well-
defined ridge. Button large, round, and reddish. Just below the
spiracles is a prominent elevation with an indentation in the center.
Spiracles located slightly above the longitudinal axis. Anal open-
ing small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 5 mm.; diameter, 2 mm.
T3. EUPHOROCERA CLARIPENNIS Macqnart (Neophorocera claripennis Macqnart).
Small to large; dull, light red to very dark red, slightly lighter
red above and between the spiracles. Spiracles shining black, widely
separated, the space nearly equal to the height of one plate. Each
plate has three dark-yellow slits, each on top of a well-defined ridge.
Button large, round. Spiracles located on the upper side of the
longitudinal axis. Below and between the spiracles is a large, dark,
rugose elevation with a central depression. Anal opening small, far
below the spiracles.
Length, 5 to 8 mm. ; diameter, 2 to 4 mm.
74. HYPOCHAETA LONGICOKNIS Schiner.
Very small ; dull yellowish red. Spiracles black, faintly shining,
narrowly separated, slightly raised above the surface. Each plate
with three slits, each slit located on a rather flattened, faint ridge.
Button large, somewhat elliptical. Anal opening small, located
nearly twice the length of one plate, below the stigmal plates.
Spiracles located slightly above the longitudinal axis.
Length, 3.5 mm. ; diameter, 1.5 mm.
76. PHOROCERA TORTRICIS Coquillett.
Very small ; dull, reddish yellow. Spiracles shining black, slightly
raised above the surface, separated by a space equal to about one-
third the width of one plate. Each plate has three yellowish slits,
each located on a well-marked ridge. Button round, well marked.
Between, at the base of the stigmal plates, is an elevation nearly as
large as one stigmal plate. The sides of the elevation are brownish,
and it is pointed on the upper edge. Spiracles located on longitudi-
nal axis. Anal opening small, quite far below the stigmal plates.
Length, 3.75 mm. ; diameter, 1.25 mm.
76. PHORICHAETA SEQUAX Williston (Polideo«oma seqnax Williston).
Small; dull, yellowish red. Posterior end of puparium faintly
tuberculate. Spiracles reddish, located on this faint tubercle. Each
spiracle has three slits, each slit on top of a ridge; spiracles nearly
