ART. 10. PUPARIA OF 100 MUSCOID FLIES — GREENE. 31
86. PANZERIA RADICUM Fabriciui (Varichaeta aldrichi Townsend).
Medium-sized ; dull red, with a very faint depression on the dorsal
surface. Spiracle dull black, very small, separated by a space nearly
equal to the width of one plate, very slightly raised above the sur-
face. Each plate has three very small slits, each on top of a faintly
raised surface. Button large and round. Spiracles some distance
above longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 6 mm ; diameter, 2.25 mm.
87. ZELIA, species (near GENUINA).
Medium size; subshining, rugose, especially on the posterior end.
Spiracles subshining, black, decidedly raised above the surface, nar-
rowly separated at the base, more widely so at the apex. Each plate
has three dull-yellow slits, each slit located on top of a broad, well-
defined ridge. Button small, round, depressed. Spiracles located
only a short distance above the longitudinal axis. Anal opening
small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 7.5 mm. ; diameter, 2.75 mm.
88. EXORISTA, specie* (Hopk. U. S. 13675&).
Medium-sized ; subshining, dark red ; caudal end slightly depressed
dorsally at about one-third the length from the end. Spiracles
shining black, widely separated, the space equal to the width of one
plate. Each plate has three reddish slits, each on top of a well-
defined ridge, the upper one much longer than either of the other two.
Button red, large, well defined. A prominent elevation just below
and between the spiracles. Anal opening large, far below the spira-
cles, on the flat under surface of the puparium. Spiracles located
just below the longitudinal axis.'
Length, 6.5 mm. ; diameter, 2.65 mm.
89. MASICERA RUTILA Meieen.
Medium-sized; dull, yellowish red. Spiracles shining black, raised
above the surface. Each plate has three reddish slits, each located
on a well-defined ridge. Stigmal plates separated by a distance equal
to about one-fifth of one plate. Button large, round. Spiracles just
slightly above the longitudinal axis. Just below the stigmal plates
is a broadly rounded, flattened tubercle with a depression near the
apex. Anal opening small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 6.25 mm. ; diameter, 2.75 mm.
90. ADMONTIA DEMYLUS Walker (Spathimeigenia «pinigera To^vneend).
Medium-sized; dull, reddish yellow. Spiracles shining black,
slightly raised above the surface, narrowly separated, the space equal
to about one-third the width of one plate. Each plate has three
