32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol.60.
yellow slits, each located on a well-defined ridge. Button large,
round, red. Spiracles located a short distance above the longitudinal
axis. Anal opening small, far below the spiracles.
Length, 7 mm. ; diameter, 2.75 mm.
91. PHOROCERA, gpcciea (near MACRA).
Medium-sized ; subshining. Stigmal plates shining black, slightly
raised above surface. Plates separated by a space equal to one-half
of one plate. Each plate has three red slits, each on top of a ridge.
Button round, fairly distinct. Spiracles located on longitudinal
axis. Between and partly below the stigmal plates is a large, rugose
tubercle. Anal opening small, far below the spiracles.
Lenth, 7 mm. ; diameter, 2.75 mm.
92. PANZERIA AMPELUS Walker (Varichaeta ampelns Walker).
Medium-sized; dull, dark red, very minutely rugose. Spiracles
shining black, slightly raised above the surface, separated by a space
equal to one-third of one stigmal plate. Each plate has three red-
dish slits. Button medium-sized, round. Spiracles located on longi-
tudinal axis. Just below the spiracles is a transverse, diamond-
shaped elevation with a median depression.
Length, 7.5 mm. ; diameter, 2.5 mm.
93. EXORISTA FUTILIS Osten Sacken (Euexorista futilis Osten Sacken).
Medium-sized; dull, dark red. Spiracles shining black, slightly
raised above the surface, divided by a space nearly equal to one-half
of one stigmal plate ; area between plates smooth and shining. Each
stigmal plate has three slits, each of which are located on a well-
defined ridge. Button round, well defined. Spiracles located on the
longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, far below spiracles.
Length, 8 mm. ; diameter, 3.75 mm.
94. PHOROCERA CLARIPENNIS MacQuart (Euphorocera tachinomoides Townsend).
Large ; dull, dark red. Spiracles black, subshining, slightly raised
above the surface, widely separated, the space between equal to about
one-half the width of one plate. Each plate has three dark-red slits,
each located on top of a well-defined groove. Button round, reddish,
rather well defined. Spiracles located above the longitudinal axis, a
distance about equal to the length of one plate. At the base and be-
tween the spiracular plates is a rugose, rounded, blackish elevation
with a central depression. Anal opening small, far below the
spiracles.
Length, 8 mm. ; diameter, 3.5 mm.
