ADT. 10. PUP ARIA OF 100 MUSCOID FLIES — GREENE. 33
95. WINTHEMIA QUADRIPUSTULATA Fabricius.
Medium size; dull, dark red. Spiracles shining black, faintly
raised above the surface; stigmal plates separated by a distance equal
to one-half of one stigmal plate. Each plate has three slits, each on
top of a faint elevation. Spiracles just above the longitudinal axis.
Button large, round. Anal opening small, far below the longitudinal
axis.
Length, 8 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm.
96. UROMACQUARTIA HALISmOTAE Townsend.
Medium size, elongated ; dark red and subshining. Spiracles shin-
ing black, narrowly separated and located on horizontal axis. Three
slits, each on top of a well-defined ridge. Button small, round, lo-
cated near inner edge. Anal opening far below spiracles.
Length, 9 mm. ; diameter, 3.5 mm.
97. TRICHOPHORA RUFICAUDA Van der Wulp (Copecrypta ruficauda Van der Wulp).
Medium sized ; dull, dark red. Spiracles shining black, tuberculate,
separated by a distance nearly equal to the width of one stigmal plate.
Three slits, each located on a well-defined ridge. Button small, round.
Spiracles located on longitudinal axis. Anal opening far below the
spiracles.
Length, 8 mm. ; diameter, 3 mm.
98. STURMIA OCCIDENTALIS Coquillett.
Small ; dull, reddish yellow ; posterior end finely rugose. Spiracles
shining black, slightly raised above the surface, widely separated,
space equal to about one-third the width of one plate. Each plate
has three reddish slits, each located on top of a well-defined ridge.
Button fairly large, black, rounded. Spiracles located less than their
own height above the longitudinal axis. Anal opening small, far be-
low the spiracles.
Length, 5 mm. ; diameter, 1.75 mm.
99. STURMIA ALBIFRONS Walker (Gymnocarcelia ricinomm Townsend).
Medium size; dull, dark red. Spiracles shining black, faintly
raised above the surface, widely separated, the space equal to one-
half the width of one plate. Each plate has three dark-yellow slits.
The two outer slits form a U, and the middle one is oblique. Button
large, round. Below the spiracles is a large, dark, rugose elevation
with a central depression. Anal opening small, far below the
spiracles. Spiracles located a short distance above the longitudinal
axis.
Length, 8.5 mm. ; diameter, 4 mm.
