ART. 1. NORTH AMERICAN SAWFLIES ROHWER. 19
Upon hatching the larva does not eat the skin of the egg but
leaves it in the puncture. Besides shedding and changing its di-
mensions as described under " Larval Instars ", the larva characterizes
its advance, somewhat by a dijfference in the extent of its feeding.
The larvae during the first two stages, skeletonize small separate
splotches usually from the underside of the leaflet. Late in the
second stage or early in the third the larvae begin to cut holes
through the leaflets. By the fourth stage the holes are cut clear
through to the margin of the leaf and some of the edge is eaten,
including small veins. The fifth stage larvae feed on the entire leaf,
usually stopping only for the heavy midrib and bases of the larger
veins.
When full grown the larva stops feeding and crawls about search-
ing a place suitable for cocooning, in the meantime evacuating by
the usual method, its alimentary tract. During this process it
changes in appearance from geenish white to a yellow or a leaden
white but neither sheds nor otherwise changes in character. The
cocoon is spun in the leaves, usually in a curled leaflet.
In the foregoing table, as in the description of " Larval Instars ",
the male and female fifth stages are made separately and the sixth
stage is represented only in the female. This treatment indicates an
influence of sex upon the number of larval stages which is worthy of
especial mention. The male larvae have one less stage than the
female. In the fifth stage of the male (which is comparable with the
fifth stage of the female in size, proportions, and other characters)
the male larva feeds, empties his elimentary tract, and without shed-
ding spins his cocoon. The female larva, however, sheds to become
larger, feeds again, and without shedding in this sixth stage, spins
her cocoon. Thus the male larva has five instars while the female
has six. Another interesting feature which was discovered in the
study of this insect's development in the absence of a distinct pre-
pupal stage. In this respect not only is the spinning stage identical
in appearance with the feeding form but there is neither a shedding
of the skin nor a loss of hairs between feeding and cocoon spinning,
during the spinning nor after it until pupation occurs. This is a
peculiarity of note especially in view of the striking changes usually
exhibited in the sawflies previous to spinning. In the Nematinae,
a subfamily close to and much like the Cladiinae, this prepupal stage
is clearly defined. Of what significance this change from the usual
method of development of sawflies is, the authors hesitate as yet to
form an opinion.
The following information was obtained from notes made on a
number of larvae of both the first and second generations during the
period between the molting of the penultimate stage and the emer-
gence of the adult. This period is divided into several portions;
