20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.00.
first, the ultimate stage feeding period varying from 2 to 3 days in
length and averaging 2.6 days for both males and females of both
the first and second generations; second, the ultimate stage between
feeding and spinning, a short time occasionally as long as a day;
third, the period spent between the spinning of the cocoon and the
appearance of the pupa, five and six days respectively in the two
opportunities in which the appearance of this stage was noted; and
fourth, the pupal period, 3 days in both instances noted. The total
length of the cocoon period, or the time spent between spinning and
adult emergence is shorter for the first generation, being 8-9 days in
length and the sex of the individual does not seem to be associated
with the variation in the length of the period, however, the second
generation ranges from 10-11 days which variation is associated with
the individual sex as follows: Ten days for the females and 11 days
for the males.
BEHAVIOR.
The adults of this sawfly are restless in nature but more so in
captivity, spending most of their time trying to escape. If jarred
or disturbed while on a leaf or twig, both sexes fall to the ground,
fold their legs, wings, and antennae, close their bodies and remain
motionless, a common habit among sawfiies.
For this reason, observations on the habits and functions were
difficult to make, and at best somewhat superficial and wanting in
detail and exactness. The following notes on mating and oviposition,
however, were deemed worthy of publication.
Mating. — A female from one isolation cage where she was reared
without access to a male and a male from another were placed in the
same vial — at first they paid no attention to each other, but later
the male became much agitated and when in close proximity to the
female exerted his genitalia and endeavored to grasp the female with
the harpes. In a few attempts he was unsuccessful, but after the first
few trials the female became more submissive and remained quiet,
not avoiding the male. A few seconds later a union was effected. It
was very short, and with the exception of motion of apical part of
abdomen the insects were motionless. On completion the female was
the first to show desire to break away, and pushed her ovipositor down
against the top of the abdomen of the male. When the male left
the female, he remained quiet for a few seconds and again resumed
his activity. No other attempt of mating was observed. The posi-
tion normal for Nematinae was the one assumed.*
Oviposition. — The eggs of Gladius isomerus are laid in the midrib
of the leaf from the upperside and in the middle of the fluting.
Upon arriving at a favorably considered place for oviposition the
•The Mating Habita of Some Sawflies, S. A. Rohwer, Proc. But. Soc. Wash., vol. 17.
1915. pp. 196-8.
