NOTES ON NEARCTIC BIBIONID FLIES.
By W. L. McAtee,
Of the United States Biological Survey.
INTRODUCTION.
Wishing to identify some Bibionidae and finding no keys available
the writer decided to make some. The resulting keys and notes are
based largely on the collections of the United States National Mu-
seum, and it is hoped that they will be useful to others desiring to
study this neglected family. Among Nemocera in general the
Bibionidae are distinguished by absence of transverse suture in
mesonotum and of discal cell in wing, forking of the radial sector
beyond the discal cross vein, and presence of three large ocelli on a
well-developed ocellar prominence. Eliminating the flies properly
separable as the family Scatopsidae, the Bibionidae may be separated
from their nearer relatives with fair satisfaction. From all but the
most primitive Mycetophilidae {Paleoplatyura, Apemon, etc.) they
are distinguished by possession of two basal cells in the wing; most
of them have short and compact (even if many-jointed) antennae,
again in contrast to the majority of Mycetophilidae. The latter
usuall}'' have all of the tibiae conspicuously spurred, while in the
Bibionidae spurs of any magnitude are confined to the front tibiae.
The Scatopsidae differ from the Bibionidae in much smaller average
size, in possession of but one basal cell, and general reduction in
venation. In these characters again they approach the Myceto-
philidae, which differ, however, in the elongation of the coxae, and
usually of the other leg joints and antennae.
In identifying various Bibionidae it is especially desirable, some-
times necessary, to have associated sexes of the species. By bear-
ing this in mind collectors can greatly help the study of this family.
Bibionidae exhibit what is apparently more than a fair share of
injuries and malformations which may be connected with emergence
from the soil. Distorted tarsal joints are not rare, and in the course
of the present study the following more important abnormalities
were observed: Bihio femoratus Wiedemann, a female from Plum-
mers Island, Maryland, April 30, 1911 (W. L. McAtee), has the left
front leg lacking a tarsus, the tibia being only about half the nor-
No. 2406— Proceedings U. S. National Museum, Vol. 60, Art. I i.
1
