4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
yellow, remainder of body and legs brown to black ; hind femora but
not the tibiae clavate, metatarsus about equal to next three joints;
wings smoky brown. Length of wing, 5-8 mm.
A male and female labeled Tex. (U.S.N.M) and numerous speci-
mens of both sexes from Orange, Texas, September 4, 1915, and
Vinton Louisiana, September 5, 18, 1916, E. G. Holt, agree with
others from Mexico and Central America.
Identification of this species as P. hicolor Bellardi is by no means
certain. I have seen another species from Guatemala which fits the
original description just as well. It has the hind metatarsus dis-
tinctly longer than the succeeding three joints of the tarsus, while
the species here treated has these parts of about equal length. How-
ever, since specimens of the latter from Mexico are at hand and the
known range is greater, indicating it may be the frequently recorded
hicolor, that name is provisionally applied to it. Williston® places
hicolor, as a synonym of collaris, upon what grounds he does not
say and I am unable to infer. The probabilities are against their
being identical; we can be sure that they are at least varietally dis-
tinct.
PLECIA CONFUSA Locw.
Plecia confusa Loew (Hermann), Ueber einige neue Fliegengattungen, Ber-
liner Entomologische Zeitschrift, vol. 2, 1858, p. 109. [A new name for
Plecia ruficollis Fabricixjs (J. C), Systema Antiliatorum, 1805, p. 53,
Middle America, as distinguished from Plecia rtcflcollis Pabeicius, Species
Insectorum, vol. 2, 1781, p. 410, Cape of Good Hope.]
Head without beak, eyes as in last species ; whole thorax and coxae
dull to bright orange or reddish yellow; remainder of body brown
to black ; wings smoky brown ; hind femora but not the tibiae clavate ;
hind metatarsus about as long as succeeding three joints. Length
of wing, 6-8 mm.
Specimens collected in Florida by Maynard and at Waco, Texas,
by Belfrage are in the national collection. Loew's proposal of a
new name for the American species resembling Plecia ^nificollis
Fabricius has been generally overlooked, but had Loew not taken
such action it would have been done by some later student of the
group, for there is very little probability that species from the Cape
of Good Hope and from Middle America are identical. Further ma-
terial and research may even show that Loew's name is too inclusive.
PLECIA HETEROPTERA Say.
B. [ibio] heteropterus Say (Thomas), Descriptions of Dipterous Insects
of the United States, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 3, 1823,
p. 78; Compl. Writings, vol. 2, 1859, p. 69 [Maryland].
Head without beak; eyes contiguous above in male, small and
widely separated in female, ocellar tubercle prominent. A wholly
» Biol. Centr. Amer., vol. 1, Suppl., p. 222, 1900.
