6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
Specimens examined are two male paratypes, Austin, Texas, De-
cember 13, 1899, A. L. Melander (Aldricli). On comparison with
original description it would appear that these specimens have faded ;
that description alluding to jet-black general color and black halteres.
I have not described the genitalia of the species of this genus, as
it is not necessary at present to base the classification upon them.
BIBIODES HALTERAUS CoQnillett.
Bibiodes Jialteralis Coquillett (D. W.), New North American DIptera,
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vol. 6, No. 3, July, 1904, p. 171 [California].
Male. — Black, shining, legs dark reddish brown ; halteres yellow ;
head with short, body and legs with rather long yellowish white
hairs; spurs of front tibiae rufous, the outer long and stout, the
inner a mere pointed tubercle; wings nearly hyaline; the anterior
veins and stigma brown, the posterior nearly colorless. Length of
wing, 3.5 mm.
Specimens examined are from San Mateo County, California,
C. F. Baker (type) ; Los Angeles, California, Coquillett (U.S.N.M.) ;
Claremont, California, Baker (Aldrich).
Genus BIBIO GeoflFroy.
A considerable number of the older names applied to American
species of this genus remain unidentified. This is chiefly due to
the fact that characters used in later diagnoses are not mentioned
in earlier ones, and that elucidation of the obscure points has not
been possible on account of lack of types or of opportunity of
examining those in existence.
The male genitalia of Bibio undissected have not been found
available for taxonomic use. They are not heavily chitinized, hence
are not all constant in appearance in dried specimens of the same
species; the superior plate is decidedly emarginate in all species
examined, but the width of the emargination varies greatly, being
strictly correlated with the degree to which the forceps are spread.
Dissection of excised genitalia has not been attempted.
KEY TO THE) SPECIES : MALES.
A. Inner spur of front tibia long, sometimes nearly as long as outer.
B. Legs almost entirely black criorMnus.
BB. Legs with at least one joint yellow to rufous.
C. Only the femora rufous femoratus.
CC. More of legs yellow to rufous.
D. Smaller species (wing, 4.5-6.5 mm.) ; body with rather short pale hair.
E. Hind metatarsus distinctly shorter than succeeding three joints
together abbreviatus.
EE. Hind metatarsus about as long as succeeding three joints together.
fraternus.
DD. Larger species (wing, 7.5-9.5 mm.) ; body with copious long gray to
black hair variabilis.
