8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
L. Wings yellowish fumose ; front tibiae narrower in proportion
to length xanthopus.
LL. Wings dusky hyaline, front tibiae broader in proportion to
length nervosus.
II. Top of thorax yellow to rufous.
M. Top of thorax only rufous; legs black rufithorax.
MM. Whole thorax and legs pale, joints of latter dark-tipped longipes.
HH. Abdomen, as well as thorax and legs, testaceous, with only minor dark
markings ; head black inaequalis.
BIBIO ABBREVIATUS Loew.
BiHo abhreviatus Loew (H.), Diptera Americae septentrionalis indigena,
Centuria, 5, No. 9, 1864, Compl. Work, p. 217 [District of Columbia].
Male. — Head, body, and coxae black, the head with dark, the
other i^arts with pale hair; femora and succeeding joints of legs
yellow to rufous, dark-tipped; the front tibiae almost wholly dark;
spurs pale, subequal; wings chiefly hyaline, the anterior veins and
stigma dark.
Female. — The female differs in having shorter hair of head pale,
the coxae yellow to rufous and wings fumose.
The distinguishing character of the species is the short hind meta-
tarsus, which in both sexes is distinctly shorter than the succeeding
three joints of tarsus combined; the hind tibiae of males are some-
what enlarged.
Length of wing, 4-6 mm.
Van Der Wulp has repeated the combination Bihio abhreviatus in
describing ® a new species from Argentina.
Specimens examined were collected in Maryland, near the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and in Pennsylvania, Indiana, Michigan, Iowa,
and South Dakota (all from the latter State being very small).
BIBIO ALBIPENNIS Say.
B. [ihio'\ albipennis Say (Thomas), Desc. Dipt. U. S., Journ. Acad. Nat,
Sci. Phila., vol. 3, 1823, p. 78; Compl. Writings, vol. 2, 1859, p. 69 [Penn-
sylvania] .
KEY TO SUBSPECIES OF ALBIPENNIS.
A. Pile usually longer and more abundant, especially on males; western.
B. albipennis hirtus.
AA. Pile shorter and less abundant ; eastern B. albipennis albipennis.
BIBIO ALBIPENNIS ALBIPENNIS Say.
Bibliographical reference same as for species.
Male. — Head, body, and legs black, humeral ridge more or less
marked with yellowish, legs brownish black distally, the tarsal joints
narrowly pale basally ; eyes with copious long, dark hair, remainder
of body, coxae and femora with the same, pale yellowish to gray,
tibiae with shorter dark hair; spurs of front tibiae very unequal,
"Tijds. V. Ent., vol. 24 (1880-81), 1881, p. 145.
