ABTll. NOTES ON NEARCTIC BIBIONID FLIES — McATEE. 11
BIBIO FUMIPENNIS Walker.
Bibio fumipennis Walker (Francis), List of the Specimens of Dipterous In-
eects in tiie CoUection of the British Museum, pt. 1, 1848, p. 122 [St.
Martin Falls, Albanj River, Hudson Bay].
Male. — Head, body, and coxae black, the head with copious, long,
dark hair, the other parts with same, pale yellow to grayish; legs
rufous, the femora dark-tipped, the tibiae hardly so, except front
ones each of which have a brownish annulus at base of the very
unequal rufous spurs, last two or three tarsal joints dark, hind
femora and tibiae clavate, and hind tarsi somewhat enlarged ; wings
yellowish fumose, deeper costally where the veins and stigma are
brown. Length of wing, 7.5-8 mm. Female not seen.
Two males from Mount Washington, New Hampshire, Slosson,
and Banff, Alberta, Sanson, identified by Coquillett may be this
species ; the original description does not refer to the anterior tibial
spurs, hence without access to the type specimen identification can
not be positive.
BIBIO HOLTII, new species.
MaU. — Spurs of front tibiae very unequal ; hind legs elongate, their
femora and tibiae clavate, and metatarsi slightly enlarged; eyes
reddish with copious, rather long black hair, occiput with long dark
hair; body and coxae black with rather sparse, long pale (reddish
to grayish) hair; femora except their extreme ends bright rufous,
remainder of legs dark reddish-brown to black, femora with rather
long, pale, and tibiae and tarsi with shorter dark hair; wings dusky
fumose, both veins and membrane distinctly darker on costal half of
wing; stigma brown.
Length of wing, 7 mm.
Type.— C&t. No. 24700, U.S.N.M. A male from Graham Moirn-
tains, Arizona, July 25, 1914, E. G. Holt (U.S.N.M.).
A paratype male, Geneva Park, Grant, Colorado, altitude 10,000
feet, August 19, 1914, differs in having the femora yellow, and in
being smaller, the wing measuring 5.5 mm., E. C. Jackson (Biologi-
cal Survey). Another paratype male from Custer, South Dakota
(Aldrich), agrees well with the type; length of wing, 7 mm. This
species is named for the collector of the holotype, Mr. E. G. Holt,
who has collected many interesting and novel insects in the western
States, a particularly notable lot of which were obtained in the
Graham Mountains.
BIBIO HUMERALIS Walker?
Bibio humeralis Walker (Francis), List. Dipt. British Mus., pt. 1, 1848,
pp. 121-2 [Nova Scotia].
Female. — Head and body black, complete transverse inverted
V-shaped band along suture between pronotum and mesonotum.
