12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
pleura largely, and legs, pale rufous ; tibiae faintly brown-tipped and
terminal tarsal joints dusky; all hair pale; wing yellowish fumose
deepest along costa where the veins are nearly black, remaining veins
and stigma brown. Length of wing, 8.5 mm.
A single female from Las Vegas, New Mexico, 6,400 feet, Cockerell,
identified as humeralis by Coquillett (U.S.N.M.).
Walker's description does not mention the front tibial spurs, hence,
strictly speaking, humeralis is unidentifiable from the description
alone. Moreover, the specimen recorded is from a region far distant
from the type locality. However, considering the correlation be-
tween altitude and latitude, the distribution indicated is not impos-
sible, and for the present it sems best to accept Coquillett's identifica-
tion of the New Mexican specimen rather than to describe a new
species on the basis of a single female.
BIBIO INAEQUALIS Loew.
Bihio inaequalis Loew (H.), Dipt. Amer, sept, indig., Cent. 5, No. 3, 1864,
Compl. Work, pp. 21S-4 [Sitka].
Bibio fumidus Coquillett (D. W.), Report on Diptera of the Commander
Islands, 1899, p. 343 [Copper Island].
Male. — Head, body, and coxae black, head with copious, long,
dark hair, and body and coxae with same, pale yellowish; femora
swollen, dark reddish brown, the hind ones clavate, yellowish
basally; front tibiae, reddish brown with base and very unequal
spurs yellowish; others yellowish, dark apically, the hind ones cla-
vate; tarsi with the last two or three joints dark, the hind ones
noticeably thickened; wings yellowish fumose, deeper costally, an-
terior veins and stigma brown.
Female. — The female differs in having only the head black, the
thorax reddish brown with indications of dark vittae, the abdo-
men yellow brown, all with pale yellowish hair, shorter than in male ;
pleura and coxae reddish brown with more or less black markings,
femora and succeeding leg- joints reddish yellow, slightly darker at
tips, last two or three tarsal joints dark ; wings as in male.
Length of wing, 7-8.5 rmn.
Specimens examined, including the type series of B. fumidus
Coquillett, are from Unalaska, Iditarod, and Saldovia, Alaska, Cop-
per Island and Karagi Island, Kamchatka.
BIBIO LONGIPES Loew.
Bibio longpipes Loew (H.), Dipt. Amer. sept, indig., Cent. 5, No. 12, 1864,
Compl. Work, pp. 217-8 [District of Columbia].
Male. — Entirely black except for the outer (and much longer)
spurs of anterior tibiae, head with long dark hairs, and body, coxae
and femora with long gray to reddish hair; hind legs elongate,
