ABTll. NOTES ON" NEARCTIC BIBIONID FLIES — McATEE. 13
femora and tibiae clavate, tarsal joints thickened; wing hyaline,
anterior veins and stigma brown.
Female. — The female has entire thorax, coxae and succeeding leg
joints rufous, dark-tipped (tarsi sometimes chiefly dark), and the
hair much shorter and all pale; wing yellowish fumose, costal cell
opaque yellowish, stigma and anterior veins brown.
Length of wing, 5-8 mm.
Specimens from New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Maryland, District of Columbia, and Virginia have been examined ;
the species has been recorded also from Quebec. Two males from
near Flagstaff, Arizona, October 15, 1914, E. G. Holt, having the
hair of head and thorax black and of pleura, legs, and abdomen pale,
are intermediate between longipes and slossonae. A specimen from
Yale, Idaho (Aldrich), seems to agree in every way with longipes,
further indication of the close relationship of this foim with slos-
sonae, which has so extended a range in the north.
BIBIO NERVOSUS Loew.
Bihio nervosus Loew (H.), Dipt. Amer. sept, indig., Cent. 5, No. 4, 1864,
Compl, Work, p. 214 [California].
Male. — Black, shining, eyes with dark hair, body, coaxe, fore and
mid femora clothed with plentiful long gray hair ; femora and suc-
ceeding leg joints rufous, tipped with black; wings smoky hyaline
dusky near costa, the veins there and stigma being black.
Female. — Head and body black with short gray hair; coxae and
succeeding leg joints rufous, those from femora on, dark-tipped;
front tibia with basal and subapical black bands; wings dusky
hyaline brown costally with black veins and stigma.
Length of wing, 6.5-8 mm.
Specimens examined are from Moscow, Idaho, and Sierra Morena
Mountains, and Palo Alto, California (Aldrich) ; Wenatchee, Wash-
ington (U.S.N.M.).
Very similar to B. xanthopus, from which it differs in both sexes
by the duskier wings and the front tibiae being broader in propor-
tion to their length.
BIBIO RUFITUORAX Wiedemann.
Bih. [to] rnfithorax Wiedemann (C. R. W.), Ausz. zweifl. Ins., vol. 1, 1828,
p. 79 [Pennsylvania].
Humeral ridge, top of meso- and meta-notum rufous, head and
body otherwise black, each with short concolorous hair; legs dark
reddish-brown to black, pulvilli yellow, spurs of anterior tibiae very
unequal; wings and veins blaclrish fumose darker costally, stigma
almost wholly obscured. Length of wing, 8.5-9 mm.
Two females seen : Myrtle Beach, Horry County, South Carolina,
April 22, 1919, E. R. Kalmbach (Biol. Survey) ; Paris, Texas, June
