AST 11. NOTES ON- NEARCTIC BIBIONID FLIES — McATEE. 15
tensively obscured with darker; spurs of front tibiae rufous, very
unequal ; wing and veins dusky f umose, darker costally. Length of
wing, 6 mm.
The female also, according to Williston, is chiefly black pilose,
thus differing from most of the species of Bibio, and has the coxae,
except front ones in part, black.
A male collected in the Graham Mountains, Arizona, at an alti-
tude of over 9,000 feet, June 3-6, 1914, by E. G. Holt is assigned to
this species.
BIBIO VARIABILIS Loev.
BiMo variaMlis Loew (H.), Dipt. Amer. sept, indig., Cent., 5, No, 7,
1864, Compl. Work, pp. 215-6 [Sitka; New Hampshire].
Mcde. — Head, body and coxae black, clothed with long hair vary-
ing from gray to black, chiefly the former on abdomen, pleura, and
legs, and the latter on top of thorax and on occiput; sometimes
wholly black pilose; femora black, the mid and hind pairs often
rufous near bases (all of them sometimes almost entirely rufous) ;
tibiae and tarsal joints rufous basally, dark apically, the subequal
spurs of front tibiae rufous; wings hyaline, anterior veins and
stigma brown.
Female. — The female differs in having much shorter wholly pale
hair, all leg joints rufous with dark tips (coxae sometimes dark at
base or even wholly black) , and the wings fumose.
Length of wing, 6-10 mm.
Specimens examined were all collected along the northwest coast
of North America from Corvallis, Oregon, to Yakutat, Alaska. The
species has been recorded also from Quebec.
BIBIO VESTITUS Walker.
Bibio ve^tita Wai^keb (Francis), List. Dipt. Britisii Mus., pt. 1, 1848, p.
122 [Nova Scotia].
Head, body, and legs black, clothed with black hairs, abundant
and long over head, body, coxae and femora, shorter on remaining
joints of legs; tibiae and tarsal joints rufous with dark tips, the
last two joints of tarsi almost or wholly dark; front tibiae reddish-
brown, the spurs very unequal; wings nearly hyaline, stigma and
anterior veins brown, the cells bounded by latter more obscure than
remainder of wing, posterior veins almost hyaline. Length of wing,
7 mm.
A male collected at St, John, New Brunswick, June 9, 1901, W.
Mcintosh, is identified by Coquillett as vestitus and probably is
that species; the original description does not mention the front
tibial spurs.
