ABTll. NOTES ON NEARCTIC BIBIONID FLIES McATEE. 21
DILOPHUS ORBATUS Osten Sacken.
D. [ilophus^ oriatus Osten Sacken (C. R.), in LeConte's edition of The
Complete Writings of Thomas Say on the Entomology of North America,
vol. 2, 1859, p. 70 [Florida].
In the paper of 1823 in which Say's other species of Dilophus
and Bihio were described (to which several references are made in
the present article) he proposed a species Bihio orhatus.^^ Later
authors (Wiedemann, 1828, Bellardi, 1859, and Osten Sacken, 1859)
have used the name orhatus in the genus Dilophus^ in each case prob-
ably for a different species.
Say was perfectly aware of the characters distinguishing Bibio
from Dilophus^ and it has not been found necessary to shift any
other of his species as between these two genera. I fail, therefore,
to see the point of rejecting Say's assignment of orhatus to the genus
BiMo and accepting that to Dilophus by Wiedemann. While Osten
Sacken says "Wiedemann . . . had specimens communicated by Say
before him," there is no definite evidence that such was the case.
Wiedemann did not have specimens of all of Say's species and his
usual remark when he had seen specimens, "In meiner Sammlung,"
is lacking in this instance. Even had such specimens been available
to Wiedemann, the chances of transposition or error in labels are
such that we could by no means accept Wiedemann's reference of
orhatus to Dilophus when Say certainly was just as well informed
as he with respect to the generic characters. Wiedemann's action is
best regarded as a misidentification and the name Dilophus orhatus
Wiedemann as a synonym of Bihio orhatus Say.
Wiedemann's action therefore does not preoccupy the combination
Dilophus orhatus and the next description under this combination,
undoubtedly referring to a Dilophus^ should be recognized. This
combination is present in the contribution of Osten Sacken, cited at
the beginning of this discussion, and in the first installment of
Bellardi's "Saggio di Ditterologia Messicana," both published in
1859. So far I have found no means of deciding as to priority
between these works, but since Osten Sacken's name undoubtedly
refers to the Nearctic form it is selected for use in the present con-
nection.
Male. — Head, body, and legs brownish to black, mostly shining,
with black hairs; genital segment with a broad cleft about half its
length, superior plate half as long as wide moderately convex pos-
teriorly; wing sordid-hyaline, yellowish near costa where the veins
and stigma are pale fuscous.
Female. — Same description applies except as to genitalia and
wings ; latter dusky to blackish, veins darker costally, stigma large,
but little darker than surrounding membrane.
Length of wing, 3.5-5.5 mm.
"Compl. Writings, vol. 2, 1859, pp. 69-70 [Pennsylvania].
313&— 22— Proc.N.M. Vol .60 28
