22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vou SO.
Specimens examined are from Haulover, Capron, Biscayne Bay,
Buena Vista, Palm Beach, and Miami, Florida, Baton Rouge, Loui-
siana, and from Texas (U.S.N.M.) ; Pass Christian, Mississippi
(Aldrich).
The distribution of Dilophus orbatus Osten Sacken (the species
not being known north of the Gulf Coast) , casts additional doubt on
the identification of it with Bihio orbatus Say, which was described
from Pennsylvania.
DILOPHUS PROXIMUS. new ipecies.
Male. — Head, body, and legs, piceous to black, shining, with pale
hair, except on eyes, front tibiae and all tarsi ; genital segment cleft,
half its length, superior plate transverse, about four times as wide
as long, straight or slightly concave posteriorly ; wings hyaline, veins
near costa and rather distinct stigma light brown.
Female. — Head and thorax except humeri shining black, and abdo-
men velvety brown, all with short pale hair ; humeri and legs chiefly
yellow to rufous, tibiae and tarsi, especially of the front legs deeper
colored, sometimes black; in pale specimens the trochanters, distal
tarsal joints and apices of other tarsal joints only are black, hair of
legs except tarsi pale; wings hyaline, veins near costa and stigma
brown.
Length of wing, 3-5 mm.
Type.—C2it. No. 24703, U.S.N.M. Male and allotype labeled
"Colo." (U.S.N.M.) ; paratype, male and female. Hunters Creek,
Wyoming, September 11, 1895 (Aldrich).
DILOPHUS SECTUS, ii«>r ipecie*.
Male. — Body shining black, legs brownish black; eyes with short,
close-set, dark hair ; body and legs with longer, sparse pale hair, ex-
cept on tarsi where it is chiefly dark; genital segment cleft nearly
to its base, superior plate about three times as wide as long, dis-
tinctly concave posteriorly; wings hyaline, veins near costa and
nearly obsolete stigma yellowish brown.
Female. — Head shining black, with a few short pale hairs ; thorax
chiefly shining black with short sparse pale hairs, humeri yellowish-
rufous and indistinct patches on pleura and scutellum yellowish
brown; abdomen velvety brownish-black, with pale hairs; coxae
and femora yellowish rufous; trochanters tibiae and tarsi fuscous
to black, those of anterior legs darkest; hair of legs chiefly pale
except on tarsi; wings as in male, stigma somewhat more distinct.
Length of wing, 4.5-5.5 mm.
Type. — Cat. No. 24704, U.S.N.M. A male, Franconia, New Hamp-
shire, A. T. Slosson; allotype, same data; paratype, female, White
Mountains, Morrison (U.S.N.M.).
