24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
noted in the succeeding description, and is sufficient to cover the
color differences attributed to Say's two species.
Female. — Rostrum long, extended proboscis longer than antenna ;
head black ; thorax yellow to rufous more or less marked with black
on humeri, pleura, combs and scutellum; abdomen velvety brown
to black, genitalia chiefly yellow; front and mid coxae and corre-
sponding, sometimes all, femora yellow to rufous; tibiae and tarsi
brown to black ; short sparse hair on head and thorax, more copious
on abdomen and legs chiefly concolorous with the surface of origin;
wings and veins dusky, darker costally.
Length of wing, 5-6 mm.
Specimens examined are from New England, Minnesota, Mary-
land, Virginia, North Carolina, and Florida.
DILOPHUS STIGMATERUS Say.
D. [iZopft-ws] stigmaterus Say (Thomas), Desc. Dipt. U. S., Jouru. Acad.
Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 3, 1823, pp. 79-«0 ; Compl. Writings, vol. 2, 1859, pp.
70-71 [Missouri].
Male. — Rostrum about as long as the short antenna ; eyes reddish
with short dark hair; remainder of head and body shining black
with a moderate amount of longer pale hair; legs varying from
3'ellowish rufous to brownish black with abundant pale hair ; genital
segment with only a shallow cleft, superior plate about three times
as wide as long, the hind margin moderately convex ; knob of halteres
dark, stalks pale; wings nearly hyaline, veins of costal region and
small rather indefinite stigma brown.
Female. — Rostrum about as long as the short antenna; extended
mouth parts three times as long ; head black the rostrum sometimes
yellow to rufous; thorax yellow to rufous, combs, pleura and scu-
tellum more or less touched with darker; abdomen velvety brown,
genitalia more or less tipped with yellow; legs yellow to rufous,
spines of front tibiae and tips of tarsal joints (apical joints of tarsi
sometimes entirely) black; knob of halteres dark, stalk pale; wings
and veins yellowish hyaline, veins of costal region and large distinct
stigma brown.
Length of wing, 3.5-5 mm.
Specimens examined are from Wisconsin, Colorado, and New
Mexico.
DILOPHUS STRIGILATUS. new species.
Male. — Shining black (legs sometimes brownish), with sparse pale
hair ; eyes reddish with short erect black hair ; stalks of halteres pale ;
wings hyaline, veins near costa, and stigma dark brownish to black;
genital segment cleft somewhat less than half its length, approach-
ing in this respect D. tibialis., from which it differs in smaller size —
wing 4 mm. or slightly less, as contrasted to 5-6 mm. in the former.
