ART. 1. NORTH AMERICAN" SAWFLIES ROHWER. 23
irregularity of emergence and the overlapping of the generations re-
duces the value of such observations to the minimum of first appear-
ance. Observations made during the years 1916 to 1919 indicate that
in the vicinity of Washington, District of Columbia, the parent adults
of the first generation of the bristly rose slug appear coincident with
the full blooming of the Snowball {Viburnum opulus and V. plica-
tum) and the weigela {Diermlla floHda).
From observations by Mr. Eohwer, made during two seasons on
the roses at the Eastern Field Station, from notes sent by correspond-
ents, and from field studies by Mr. Rohwer and the author at Falls
Church, Virginia, and many other places throughout the range of
this species' distribution, it seems fair to conclude that Cladius
isomerus will attack all cultivated varieties (and species) of rose.
Varieties with a small midrib or forms with hairy leaves, while not
immune, are not favorable food plants. The one essential is, however,
a midrib of sufficient size to hold the eggs. Preliminary observations
indicated that certain varieties seemed to be preferred but more ex-
tended study proved that the condition of the leaves was a more im-
portant factor. There are a few authentic records of the species living
on the common eastern wild rose {Rosa palutris Marsh), but the evi-
dence seems to indicate that where cultivated roses are present they
are preferred.
The following list gives the varieties of cultivated roses on which
larvae have most frequently been observed.
Climbers. — Rasa mMltiflora, Dorothy Perkins, Philadelphia Crim-
son Rambler, Climbing Baby Rambler.
Hybrid perpetuals. — Paul Neyron, Conrad F. Meyer, General
Jacqueminot, Clio, Camille de Rohan.
Tea. — Radiance, La Tosca, Killamey, White Killarney, Frau Karl
Druschki, Mrs. A. R. Waddell, Stanley, Hadley, Mrs. Aaron Ward,
Kaiserin Augusta Victoria, Marquise de Querhoent, Gruss an Teplitz,
Laurent Carl.
PARASITES.
Two parasites are recorded in literature as having been reared from
Cladius isom£ru^. They are :
Frontina tenthredinidarum Townsend.^^
Coelopisthoidea cladiae Gahan.^^
Neither of these parasites are, however, sufficiently abundant to be
considered as a successful means of control.
"TotMll, Can. Ent., vol. 45, 1913, p. 73.
"Gahan, Can. Ent., vol. 45, 1913, p. 103.
