ART 11. NOTES ON" NEARCTIC BIBIONID FLIES — McATEE. 25
FcTYiale. — Similar to T). hreviceys in coloration, but distinguished
from this and other species by the conspicuous development of the
prothoracic comb; head black; rostrum of ordinary length; thorax
rufous, touched with black on pleura, and combs, the anterior of
which is very strongly developed, with long stout teeth, height of
comb nearly equal to length of eye ; abdomen brown, darker basally ;
coxae and femora chiefly rufous, trochanters, ends of femora, tibiae
and tarsi black; hairs pale except on tarsi and to some extent on
tibiae; halteres with dark knob and pale stalk; wings yellowish to
dusky f umose, veins near costa and large stigma dark brown. Length
of wing, 6 mm. or slightly less.
Type, a female from Catalina Island, California, Baker (U.S.
N.M.). Paratypes include a female, with same data, and numerous
specimens of both sexes from Mount Lowe, July 3, 1917, and Mount
Wilson, California (Aldrich). A female from Palo Alto, California.
May 1, 1906, also is included here, but is not made a paratype; it is
somewhat intermediate in characters between strigilatus and occipi-
talis.
Type.— Cut No. 24705, U.S.N.M.
DILOPHUS TIBIALIS Loew.
Dilophus tibialis Loew (H.), Dipt. Amer. sept, indlg., Cent. 9, No. 61, 1869;
Compl. Work, vol. 2, p. 200 [Sitka].
MaJe. — Head, body, and legs brownish to black, chiefly shining,
with copious, rather long pale hair ; genital segment cleft only about
one-fourth its length, superior plate almost straight across hind
margin ; wings and veins nearly hyaline, membrane somewhat fumose
costally, veins brown; stigma nearly obsolete, the vein running
through it distinct.
Female. — Head, body and legs with copious, rather long pale hair,
as in male ; head, top of thorax chiefly, pleura in part, and scutellum
brownish black or black, shining; abdomen pale brown to brownish
black; humeri, pleura in part, coxae (at least the front ones) and
femora yellow to rufous ; mid and hind coxae sometimes, trochanters,
tibiae and tarsi brownish to black; wings as in male, the stigma a
little more distinct.
Length of wing, 5-6.5 mm.
Specimens examined are from Berg Bay, Yakutat, Sitka, and
Juneau, Alaska.
SPECIES NOT IDENTIFIED.
DILOPHUS FULVICOXA Walker.
Dilophus fulvicoxa Walkeb (Francis), List Dipt. British Mus., pt. 1, 1848,
p. 117 [St. Martin Falls, Albany River, Hudson Bay].
DILOPHUS LONGICEPS Loew.
Dilophus longiceps Loew (II.), Dipt. Amer. Sept. indig., Cent. 1, No. 14,
1861, Corapl. Work, p. 9 [Illinois].
