ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE — MORRISON. 23
on the posterior abdominal segments, and between the median and
marginal rows with still another row of smaller pores on each side
of the body ; anal lobes present, with a long terminal seta, two small
spines and two setae on each ; anal ring with pores and six setae -,
Cauda present, rounded ; no body spines noted ; mentum 2-segmented,
with indications of a second joint close to the base.
Cotype.—C^t. No. 24756, U. S. N. M.
There are 10 species besides the type that are included in this
genus at present. No careful study of all of them has been possible,
but from such notes as have been made, it seems probable that their
inclusion in this genus is correct.
The following generic diagnosis has been based primarily on the
type species, but should also cover other species which may properly
be included with it.
GENEKIC DIAGNOSIS OF SOLENOCOCCUS.
Asterolecanine coccids forming a horny or tough waxy test usu-
ally with a posterior tube or spout; adult female membranous, an-
tennae reduced to tubercles; legs wanting; without spiracular
spines, with dorsal cribriform plates, with well developed anal tuber-
cles, with a median cauda above the anal ring, the latter with pores
and six setae, derm setae relatively few and inconspicuous ; derm with
numerous 8-shaped pores, sometimes more or less definitely ar-
ranged, rather large quinquelocular pores and long tubular ducts,
and finally minute clear or faintly multilocular pores; intermediate
stage female quite similar to adult, but without cribriform plates;
larva with 6-segmented antennae, normal legs, 8-shaped pores in
longitudinal rows both dorsally and laterally, some large quinque-
locular disk pores, well developed anal lobes, setae, a median cauda,
and an anal ring with pores and six setae.
This genus appears to have a distinct and valid place within its
subfamily, in so far as the character of the included species is con-
cerned. The writers have had no opportunity to study the type
of Comstock's genus Gerococcus^ and are therefore unable to verify
Green's indication that Solenococcus is a synonym of this genus,
although from an examination of the available literature his con-
clusions appear to have been correct.^
Subgenus Thekes Maskell.
Plate 2, fig. 1.
Genotype. — Eriococcus eucalypti Maskell.
Reference.— F^rndildi, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, pp. 70, 74.
As Mr. Crawford's only connection with the name given above was
to place it as a label on some of the specimens in his collection, it
T See Green, Cocc. Ceylon, pt. 4, 1909, p. 305.
