ART. 11!. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 25
devoniensis (Green) as the type of TJiskes. Finally the Fernald
Catalogue definitely assigns the subgenus Thekes to Maskell and
places eucalypti as the type. The confusion outlined above repre-
sents a condition which the writers do not desire to comment on at
present, and they have therefore followed the assignment of the type
as given in the Fernald Catalogue, as well as its designation of the
authorship of the genus.
The type species is represented in the Maskell collection by four
slides, one of "adult female (Australia), 1891," one of "details of
female (Australia) , 1891," one of " larvae (Australia) , 1891," and one
of " male pupa in sac (Australia) , 1891." In addition there are three
separate lots of unmounted material, all bearing No. 205 as the only
data connected with them, of which two seem to be E. eucalypti^ while
the third represents some other species of the genus Eriococcus^ which
we have not attempted to place.
Adult female. — Sac and external appearance much as described by
Maskell ; a brownish color given off by the body when treated with
Dotassium hydroxide ; antennae of normal eriococcine form, usually 7,
rarely 8-segmented ; legs of normal eriococcine form, hind coxae with
numerous pores, mostly on the basal half; spiracles small, not un-
usual ; mentum very short and stout, apparently 1-segmented ; derm
with numerous small, long-tubular ducts with cup-shaped bases and
threadlike continuation, both dorsally and ventrally, some, near the
posterior apex and apparently ventral, with flat heavy bases and the
threadlike continuation seemingly wanting ; ventrally anterior to the
anal lobes with transverse bands of tiny disk pores, apparently quin-
quelocular; no pores accompanying the spiracles; derm ventrally
with small setae in transverse rows in abdominal region, scattered in
thoracic region; dorsally and laterally with numerous very short,
conical spines, these approximately uniform in diameter of base,
mostly of a peculiar nipple-like shape, tending to become longer and
stouter at the margins near the posterior end; anal lobes broad and
stout, heavily chitinized in decided contrast to the transparent derm,
the inner face strongly notched where two of the spines attach, bear-
ing these two stout spines on the inner upper face, one basal, one
about the middle, and a third sub-basally and dorsally, a long
apical seta, a smaller subapical, and a still smaller basal seta ven-
trally; anal ring small, of normal eriococcine type, with eight setae
and a double row of pores, the inner row smaller and incomplete.
Intermediate stage. — Not available for study.
Larva. — Oval, antennae 6-segmented, legs normal, digitules long
and slender, slightly knobbed, claw with denticle close to apex ; derm
dorsally, at least at end of abdomen, with a longitudinal row of
trilocular pores on each side near margin, and with long-tubular
3136— 22— Proc.N.M.Vol.ea 30
