26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. tol. 60.
ducts alternating with the marginal spines ; margin of body with a
continuous series of stout conical spines, each constricted beyond the
middle, dorsally with a submarginal row of smaller spines parallel-
ing the margin, and in the mid-thoracic region about three pairs of
similar spines; ventrally with a few slender setae; anal lobes not
prominent, mostly invaginated into the posterior apex of the body,
broadest behind the middle, dorsally with a stout spine at base, an-
other near middle, and a third at outer angle, apically with a long
seta about two-fifths the length of the body; ventrally with two
rather large setae on the inner face; anal ring with pores and six
setae, these about half as long as the anal lobe setae.
Cotyve.—Q^t. No. 24757, U.S.N.M.
The following generic description has been prepared from the
preceding :
GENEEIC DIAGNOSIS OF THEKES.
Eriococcine forms, adult female enclosed in a sac with posterior
opening; body oval, convex, narrowed behind; antennae 7-8-seg-
mented; legs normal, digitules slender, slightly knobbed, claw with
denticle, hind coxae with pores; derm with numerous tubular ducts
with cup-shaped bases both dorsally and ventrally and with multi-
locular disk pores ventrally in abdominal region; dorsally and at
margins with numerous very short-conical, nipplelike spines, some
of these near posterior end of body more elongate; ventrally with
setae in transverse rows ; anal lobes well developed, but rather short
and broad, each bearing three stout dorsal spines and two ventral
satae in addition to the long apical seta; anal ring with pores and
eight setae; young larva oval, with 6-segmented antennae, normal
legs, stout marginal and dorsal spines, trilocular pores and tubular
ducts; anal lobes with spines and setae as in adult, anal ring with
six setae.
The writers consider it very doubtful if tliis subgenus has any
valid standing, and at present regard it as representing nothing more
than a possible key or table section within the genus Eriococcus
which may break down entirely when the species of that genus are
better known.
Genus CYLINDROCOCCUS Maskell.
Plate 2, fig. 2.
Genotype. — Cylindroeoccus casuarinae Maskell.
Reference.— Y^viidiU, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 84.
Maskell established this genus with two included species, and th(
first definite designation of type appears to have been made in the
Fernald Catalogue, as referred to above.
The type species of this genus is represented in the Maskell collec-
tion by three slides, one of " larvae, 1891," one of " adult female,
