2S PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. tol. 60.
ment described by Maskell not lo rated, very short and stout triangu-
lar; spiracles not a* companied by any circular multilocular pores;
anal lobes entirely lacking, their presenice indicated only by two
pairs of short spines, each pair accompanied by a slender seta, and
each set diagonally behind the anal ring; anal ring simple, but ap-
parently bearing two setae, placed close together just outside of the
ring proper, and morphologically the lower pair; posterior apex of
body more heavily chitinized, forming a somewhat circular disk,
bearing numerous long setae, and, in the center, the anal ring, the
setae arranged in two roughly circular irregular bands at the outside,
in three transverse rows anterior to the anal ring, and in an irregular
circular cluster around the ring; the anterior body segments with
similar setae along the margins, these in transverse rows on each
side in the abdominal segments, but irregularly scattered along the
margins of the thoracic, and head segments, gradually averaging
smaller anteriority ; derm, so far as noted, with only a single type of
pore, this multilocular disk with 5-7 loculi, set at the bottom of
a short tube, fairly numerous, but scattered, over the whole anterior
portion of the body, less numerous on the chitinized apical disk, want-
ing in the immediate vicinity of the anal ring, present both dorsally
and ventrally.
Intermediate stage female. — Not known.
Larva. — (The Maskell slides of this stage show the larva of C.
spiniferus, not of casuarinae, but this fact modifies the description
given by him only in regard to the body spines.) Oval, somewhat
narrov/ed behind, antennae 5-segmented, not with six; legs normal;
mentum apparently 1-segmented; body, at least in the abdominal
region, with five rows of large spines on each side, two dorsal, one
marginal, and two ventral, the spines in the latter smaller, all stout
and long, but pointed at apex ; the spines in spiniferus considerably
longer than in true casuarinae, flattened and incised at apices, not
pointed; anal lobes well developed, each with a stout apical spine
and a long apical seta, also bearing two smaller spines; anal ring
apparently simple, with a chitinized flange above, beneath this two
widely separated short spines, and at the bottom two more short
spines set close to each other ; spines of head reduced to small, rela-
tively slender setae.
Three species besides the type have been placed in this genus. The
writers have no information at present in regard to C. gracilis Fuller.
As noted by Maskell when describing it, O. om/plior Maskell is very
difficult to separate from C . casuarinae. C. spinife^^ts Maskell shows
some conspicuous differences from the type and is possibly not con-
generic with it. In the adult of this species the body, legs, antennae,
spiracles, and derm pores appear to be of the same general character
