24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. CO.
Genus PRIOPHORUS Dahlbom.
Priophorus Dahlbom, Conspect. Tenthredin. Scan., 1835, p. 4. Genotype. —
{Priopharus pilicornis 'Da.h\hova) = {Trenthredo) Priophorus padi (Lin-
naeus).
Stevenia (Lepeletier MSS.) Beull^, Hist. Nat. Ins., Hymen, vol. 4, 1846,
p. 667.
No species were included by name in BruUes account, but it is evident that
his remarks apply to the species now known as Priophorus (varines (Lepel-
etier) )= pa^Zi (Linnaeus), so Stevenia is isogenotypic through synonymy with
Priophorus.
The genus Priofhorus was first described by Dahlbom as a subgenus
of Nematus. Later, Hartig placed it in his genus Cladius and made
it a subgenus of Cladius. Until recently it has been treated as a sub-
genus of Cladius, but Konow, Enslin, and MacGillivray considered
it as of generic value. All the species known to us are closely allied
to the species of the genus Cladius, but the larva and antenna are
different, so it seems advisable to consider it as a separate group.
For the time being, at least, we prefer to treat it as a genus.
Genenc Characters — Adults. — Clypeus slightly emarginate ; supra-
clypeal area strongly convex, almost keel like, rectangular in outline :
lateral supraclypeal area narrow, sloping to the large antennal
foveae; the inner margins of the eyes subparallel ; anterior basitarsus
longer than or subequal with the three following joints, which are not
sharply separated from each other (fig. 4) ; wings about as in figure
6 ; radiellan cell usually without an appendage but occasionally with
a short distinct appendage ; cerci medium ; lower margins of the lan-
cets curved, armed with eight teeth; posterior margins of all the
lancet plates heavily armed ; female antenna long, slender, the third
joint simple; male antenna long, slender, the third joint usually
simple but occasionally with a strong projection at the base beneath.
Larvae. — Characters common to the larvae of this genus studied;
Head (figs. 51, 55, 56) mostly pale-yellow freckled; eye spots black;
vertex black; frons and labrum pale brown, the former spined
medianly as well as marginally. Thorax, dorsum darkened from A
mesothorax to and including C metathorax (D metathorax ?) and
sometimes the entire dorsum from A mesothorax to and including C
(D?) of urite 9 darkened (fig. 73). Annulet A smaller than annu-
let B and C and spined, annulet B and C large and thickly spined,
and annulet D bare, narrow, indistinct, and unspined (fig. 61).
Uropods normally developed on urites 2-7 ; urite 8 with pair of small
but distinct adventral protuberances ; urite 9 with similar but smaller,
less distinct protuberances. (These structures on urites 8 and 9, as
those on urite 9 of Cladius, are doubtless uropods which, since the
larvae are surface feeders and do not grip the leaf by curling the apex
of the abdomen, are retained, though not developed by much use.)
