ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 29
as those found in casuarinae. The derm bears stout spines as well as
slender setae ; the posterior apex of the body is more chitinized and
bears in the middle of its disk a pair of heavily chitinized plates,
these together forming nearly a circle, and fused along their inner
edges with the outer margins of each bearing 4-5 large stout spines;
these plates obscuring the anal ring so that its structure can not be
determined definitely, but apparently it is entirely without setae.
In the larva only the differences in the body spines have been noted.
In the following generic diagnosis an attempt has been made to
include both species discussed above within the limits indicated.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF CYLINDROCOCCUS.
Coccids forming woody galls, possibly Eriococcine, adult female
with cylindrical body, membranous derm with posterior apex more
heavily chitinized in form of a more or less circular disk; antennae
short-conical, indistinctly segmented, legs abnormal, much reduced
or represented by evaginated pouches ; spiracles without multilocular
disk pores; mentum 1-segmented; anal lobes wanting, position indi-
cated by grouped spines and setae or fan-shaped spined plates ; anal
ring simjDle, setae much reduced in number or wanting; body with
setae or spines and setae, the setae long, rather stout, much more
abundant at apex of abdomen ; with only one type of derm pore, these
multilocular, usually quinquelocular disk pores, set at bottom of
small tube; larva oval, tapering posteriorly, antennae 5-segmentedy
set close together, legs normal, abdomen with rows of long, stout
setae dorsally and ventrally; anal lobes well developed, ea li with
an apical spine and seta ; anal ring simple, with some spines or setae
set close to it.
The genus was not assigned to any higher coccid group by Maskell
when he originally described it, but was placed by Cockerell in the
tribe Eriococcini in his Tables for the Determination of the Genera
of Coccidae.^ The writers have no further changes to suggest at
present.
Genus SPHAEROCOCCOPSIS Cockerell.
Plate 2, fig. 3.
Genotype. — Sphaerococcus infatipe?, Maskell.
Reference.— F^rn^ldi, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 85.
This genus was established by Cockerell on the basis of the presence
of legs in the adult female, as contrasted with the condition in
Sphaerococcus; actually the two genera, as represented by tlie type
species, are very remotely related, if at all. Only the single type
species, with its variety, was known when the genus was established,
and none have been added subsequently.
•Can. Bnt.. vol. 81. 1899, p. 277.
