30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
The Maskell collection contains two slides of this species, both of
" adult female, 1892," and a strip of bark bearing a number of the
tests of the insect. From the latter it has been possible to obtain
mounts of the adult, cast skins believed to be of the second stage
female, and very young larvae, and the following description has
been prepared principally from these mounts. The unmounted ma-
terial bears No. 294.
Before proceeding further it may be well to note that the previous
generic characterization is fundamentally wrong, in that the type
species possesses a well developed anal ring bearing six large and a
few smaller setae.
Adult female. — Test and body about as figured and described by
Maskell; antennae reduced, of 6 segments; with three pairs of legs,
the two anterior pairs reduced, about half the size of the posterior
pair, and appearing more or less deformed ; all legs with few setae,
the tarsal claws short, the digitules apparently normal, slender,
knobbed, but usually injured, posterior tibia and tarsus nearly as
thick as femur; mentum apparently 1-segmented, no second segment
observed, short and broad conical; spiracles not unusual; without
anal lobes, these replaced by a group of large heavy spines, fringing
the dorsal area and standing above the anal ring, there being four
such spines close together in the middle, then a large seta on each
side, then about four more large spines; the region around the anal
ring and between it and the spines with numerous slender setae,
mostly small, but varying in length ; anal ring medium in size, cir-
cular, and very stout, set at the inner end of a short tube, with about
10 setae, of which six are larger than the remainder, the ring itself
with pores only in circles around the bases of these setae; no traces
of eyespots observed ; dorsum with a flattened circular area, bordered
by stout spines, in a single row continuous with those above the
anal ring posteriorly, but considerably smaller and several deep lat-
erally and anteriorly, and also scattered over the dorsal area ante-
riorly, this area crowded with " cells " of unknown function, but pos-
sibly glandular, these circular to irregularly oval in shape, very
close together in the center, somewhat more scattered around the
margin, mostly appearing as small tubercles or hemispherical nod-
ules, which are continued onto the sides in less completely developed
form; only one type of definitely developed gland pore noted, these
quinquelocular disk pores, occurring in transverse bands ventrally;
body with the stout spines already mentioned, these of two sorts,
acutely tapering and pointed on the posterior portion of the body and
much more bluntly pointed on the anterior portion ; in addition with
only slender, hairlike setae, varying considerably in size, a few scat-
tered through the circular dorsal area, others occurring rather thickly
ventrally, particularly in the abdominal region.
