34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. TOL. 60.
spine-like setae, these most frequent in the area surrounding the anal
ring; anal ring a minute ovate chitinous ring placed beyond the
posterior end of the recurved dorsal chitinized band, and so located
ventrally.
Intermediate stage femaW^^ (not of Maskell).. — About 1 mm. long,
elongate, slender, tapering and rounded at each end, the head more
broadly; antennae 5-6-segmented, semirudimentary ; broad and
stout at base, and tapering strongly to a rounded point, the terminal
two segments with some stout spines and setae; legs similarly re-
duced, stout, claw stout, with two large teeth at base, to which the
digitules may possibly attach in perfect specimens, tarsal digitules
normal, threadlike, apices slightly knobbed, not extending beyond
the apex of the claw; mentum apparently 1-segmented; spiracles
not unusual, with a single quinquelocular disk pore immediately
adjacent; with a few similar pores dorsally in the thoracic region;
derm both dorsally and ventrally thickly set with small knoblike
protuberances, these largest dorsally in the anterior portion of the
body, progressively decreasing in size to a finely granular condition
in the abdominal region ; derm with occasional little groups of stout
spines each set in a ringlike base on the head, these in more or less dis-
tinct rows dorsally and ventrally on the remainder of the body, and
somewhat larger posteriorly; anal ring small, simple, located at the
posterior end of the body, without traces of anal lobes.
Larva. — Elongate oval, antennae with four stout segments, all bear-
ing setae, and the last two with a short spine on each ; legs normal,
the claw long and slender, both pairs of digitules long and slender,
knobbed at apices, the tarsal attached well back from the apex and
much longer than the claw digitules; body with a marginal row of
24 large 8-shaped pores extending clear around the body; spiracles
tiny, each bearing one quinquelocular pore ; apex of abdomen without
traces of anal lobes, but with a pair of relatively large and stout
setae, between these the minute, simple anal ring, and above this a
smaller pair of setae ; each 8-shaped pore with a tiny seta above and
below it, in addition with submedian rows of tiny setae both dorsally
and ventrally on each half of the body; the median caudal lobe
figured by Ferris not discernible in the limited material available
for study.
Cotype.—Qnii. No. 24759, U.S.N.M.
Both the second stage female and the young larvae were taken
from a test which also enclosed an adult female. No species other
than the type has been included in this genus, and in view of its
peculiarities it is quite probable that it will continue to stand alone.
»" Subsequent examination of various stages of related species suggests that the writers
have possibly been mistaken in considering this as the second stage female, but no
definite conclusion has been reached as to the stage it really represents.
