ABT. rz. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCEDAE — MORRISON. 35
The following generic diagnosis has been based on the preceding
description.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF CALL0C0CCU8.
Asterolecanine coccids with the adult female enclosed in a striated
waxy test of peculiar form ; adult female an elongate oval sac with a
median dorsal chitinized stripe containing numerous pores and ducts ;
antennae reduced to tiny disks ; legs wanting ; mentum 1-segmented ;
spiracles not unusual; derm with minute 8-shaped pores at bottoms
of short ducts, large tubular ducts with swollen inner ends, slender
tubular ducts with cup-shaped bottoms and thread-like tube, and
quinquelocular disk pores, with only the slender tubular ducts numer-
ous; derm with a few small stout setae and no differentiated anal
setae; anal lobes completely wanting, anal ring a minute ovate ring
without setae ; intermediate stage female elongate, slender, tapering,
antennae semirudimentary, 6-segmented, legs reduced, claw digitules
if present placed on teeth at base of claw, derm pores reduced to the
quinquelocular type only, derm setae much as in adult, anal ring
simple, at apex of body ; larva elongate oval, with a marginal row of
8-shaped pores and a single quinquelocular pore attached to each
spiracle, with small setae dorsally and ventrally in rows, antennae
short and stout, 4-segmented, legs normal, digitules normal, anal ring
simple, without traces of anal lobes, but with a pair of larger and
stouter anal setae.
The writers at present incline to the belief that this genus will find
its nearest known relative in the genus Frenchia, in spite of the
occurrence of a considerable number of divergences.
Genus SPHAEROCOCCUS Maskell.
Genotype. — ISphaerococcus casvurinae Maskell.
Refererices. — Fernald, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 85. — Ferris, Can.
i5nt., vol. 51, Nov., 1919, p. 249.
This genus has just recently been redescribed and more correctly
located by Ferris (1919), who has also called attention to some errors
in Maskell's description. As S. casuarinae was the only species in-
cluded by Maskell at the time he established the genus, it remains the
type, and, as noted by Ferris, it is in aU probability the only species
of all that have been placed in the genus Sphaerococous that can
legitimately remain under that name.
The Maskell collection contains five slides of this species, all dated
1891, one of larva, two of second stage female, and two of adult
female. There is also a single gall of Cylindrococcus casuarinae^
under No. 221, which is supposed to bear a specimen of S. casuaHnas,
but the specimen is no longer present, and probably became detached
while tlie gall was still mounted on a pin.
