ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 37
Only the Maskell slide mounts have been available for study, and
as these have not proven entirely satisfactory the following descrip-
tions haA^e been confined largely to notes on certain points.
Adult fejnale. — This stage much as described by Maskell, except
for the anal ring, this having six short stout setae, as noted by
Ferris ; the multilocular pores of Maskell's description, so far as can
be noted, all trilocular, set at the bottom of short tubes, these appear-
ing rifled as a gun barrel and their openings each surrounded by a
circular chitinized plate; disk pores at the spiracular openings also
apparently, but not certainly, trilocular; the exact character of the
two glandular patches close to the posterior spiracles not determin-
able, but apparently made up of large simple pores, each surrounded
hj a chitinized circle and set in a polygonal area ; only one type of
body seta noted, these rather short and fairly stout.
Intermediate stage^ fetnale. — Differing from the adult, as noted by
Maskell, in the smaller size, the presence of the legs, and in other
particulars; both the tarsal and claw digitules present, not wanting
as suggested by Maskell ; with six anal ring setae, not two, and the
ring set at the inner end of a tube as in the adult; body pores and
setae apparently much as in the adult, but without the glandular
patches behind the posterior spiracles as in the adult.
Larva. — Quite as described and figured by Maskell and Ferris.
With regard to the species placed in this genus by Maskell, a
number have already been removed to other genera, and for the
remainder it is possible to confirm the suggestion made by Ferris in
discussing this genus, to the extent that none of the Maskell species
now referred to the genus are congeneric with the type species, al-
though such peculiar and diverse forms are included under this name
that it is impossible to reassign them without extended study.
The following generic diagnosis is given for the sake of complete-
ness in this paper.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF SPHAEROCOCCUS.
Pseudococcine forms having dorsal ostioles, adult female globular,
naked, antennae rudimentary, legs wanting, posterior spiracles ac-
companied by a large poriferous tract, anal ring set at the inner
end of an invaginated tube, with pores and six setae, anal lobes want-
ing, derm with only one type of seta, and with only trilocular pores ;
intermediate stage, female, similar to adult, but smaller, lacking the
poriferous patches and with the legs present and the antenna^e more
developed ; larva long oval, with 6-segmented antennae, normal legs,
anal ring with pores and six setae, anal lobes slightly produced, with
one pair of cerarian spines, one slender, and a long apical seta on
each, and with some longitudinal rows of trilocular pores and slender
setae.
