38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. TOL. «0,
As is noted by Ferris, this genus is separable from Antonina Sig-
noret (as represented by the American and some other species) only by
the retention of the legs in the stage preceding the adult, and by hav-
ing the derm pores of the trilocular type only, all the species of
Antonina available for examination (six in all) having large multi-
locular disk pores in addition to the triloculars.
Genus EREMOCOCCUS Ferris.
Plate 2, fig. 5.
Genotype. — Syhaerococcus pirogaUis Maskell.
References. — Fernald, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 87. — Ferris, Can.
Ent., vol. 51, 1919, p. 252.
This is another genus recently described by Ferris, and so char-
acterized that but little needs to be added to the previous descriptions.
It has been possible to make certain corrections and additions,
notably with respect to the curious invaginated character of the an-
tennae in the adult female. Only the type species has been placed in
this genus thus far.
The Maskell collection contains six slides of this species, one labeled
"2nd stage female, 1893," two labeled "adult female, 1893," and
three labeled " adult male, 1894," and a lot of material under Maskell
No. 364, including a numerous cluster of the galls of the species. The
following descripti\^ notes have been prepared from this material.
Adult female. — Enclosed in a pear-shaped gall as described by
Maskell; body an oval sac, flattened above, with an oval, somewhat
chitinized dorsal disk, corresponding to the flattened area, occupy-
ing most of the dorsum and presenting a rather nodulose appearance ;
with a wide band, consisting of numerous scattered, long, slender
setae and large 8-shaped pores around the margin of this area, venter
apparently without pores ; with a few scattered setae anteriorly, and
a rather numerous cluster around the vaginal opening ; antennae of
peculiar structure, the number of segments not exactly determin-
able, consisting of a short evaginated tubercular collar, and a long
invaginated tube passing through the collar and far within, with
about 5-6 large, stout setae of varying lengths lying at the bottom
and pointing up through the tube toward its opening, the longest
fully half the length of the tube ; spiracles peculiar only in their lack
of the multilocular disk pores that usually accompany these struc-
tures; legs entirely lacking; internal framework of mouthparts, as
noted by Ferris, large and heavily chitinized; mentum apparently
indistinctly 2-segmented; derm pores apparently only of the large
8-shaped type already mentioned, none of the loculi indicated by Fer-
ris in his figure of these pores visible in specimens examined by the
writers; derm setae of one type, as already described; anal ring
