40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEIJIM. tol. 60.
mental divisions; antennae with two distinct basal segments and
a long and large third one indistinctly divided into three segments,
making a possible total of five segments; body with a few setae
along the margin, these very small anteriorly, but much larger,
stouter, and with one curved pair to each abdominal segment pos-
teriorly, the apical segment with anal lobes very slightly indicated,
and bearing a stout setae inside and a slender, hair-like, much longer
one, perhaps two-thirds the body length outside, on each half ; dor-
sally with a pair of small submedian spines on at least the anterior
segments; gland pores, so far as can be observed, confined to two
pairs, one pore located on the margins of, apparently, the first
and second abdominal segments, these long tubular, with slightly
swollen bottom, and apparently possessing a median dividing wall
in the bottom portion of the tube; legs well developed, moderately
heavy, the femora imbricated, the tarsal digitules attached pecu-
liarly, as noted by Maskell ; eye spots showing as small, round disks
just behind the antennae.
C otype.— C?it. No. 247G0, U.S.N.M.
The following generic diagnosis has beeii prepared from the pre-
ceding description.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF EIIEMOCOCCUS.
(fall making coccids belonging in the subfamily Dactylopiinae
of the Fern aid Catalogue: adult female an oval membranous sac,
flattened and more heavily chitinized dorsally in a disk; antennae
invaginated, segmentation indefinite, legs wanting, internal frame-
work of mouth parts very large and heavy, mentum indistinctly
2-segmented; spiracles normal, not accompanied by disk pores;
derm pores of one type only, large, heavy, 8-shaped; derm setae
of one type only, stout, tapering; anal ring minute, simple, placed
dorsally near posterior apex of body ; no traces of anal lobes ; inter-
mediate stage female similar to adult, except smaller, body not
chitinized dorsally, hairs and pores fewer, with an occasional pore
trilobed; antennae less invaginated; larva oval, pointed behind,
more chitinized dorsally, antennae distinctly 3-segmented, perhaps
6-segmented, legs well developed, one tarsal digitule placed about
midway between the base and apex of tarsus, derm pores reduced
to two pairs of long, heavy tubular ducts located on basal abdom-
inal segments, body margin with setae, these stouter posteriorly,
apex of abdomen without distinct anal lobes, but with one long
slender seta ; anal ring minute, simple.
The writers are not able to place this genus any more definitely
than did the describer. The heavy 8-shaped pores suggest a pos-
sible connection with the Asterolecaninae, but there seems to be
little else to bear this out.
