ABT. 1. NORTH AMERICAN SAWFLIES ROHWER. 27
Described from one female reared from a larva collected on Cra-
taegus by Chas. R. Ely, and recorded under Bureau of Entomology
Number, Hopk. U. S. 13649^.
Type.—C2ii. No. 21587, U.S.N.M.
Larva. — Length 10 mm. similar to and with apparently no char-
acters distingushing it from that of P. pruni Rohwer. All the
larvae examined were quite dark, blackish along the dorsum.
Host. — Crataegus, species.
Seasonal History. — Larvae, collected in early July, became pre-
pupae and spun cocoons by the twenty-seventh, from which adults
had emerged August third.
PRIOPHORUS BETULAE Rohwer, new (pedes.
Figure 51.
Female. — Length 3.5 mm,; length of the antenna about 3 mm.
Clypeus shining, almost without punctures, not strongly convex
basally, the anterior margin rather deeply, arculately emarginate,
the lobes nearly triangular in outline; supraclypeal foveae deep,
punctiform; middle fovea shallow, wedge-shaped in outline; anten-
nal furrows poorly defined along the ocelli; ocellar basin obsolete
laterally, the lower wall rounded, broken; a distinct triangular de-
pression in front of the anterior ocellus; postocellar area sharply
defined laterally, convex, without foveae; postocellar furrow want-
ing; postocellar line subequal with the ocellocular line; antenna
rather short, not sharply tapering, the third joint distinctly shorter
than the fourth, the apical joint slightly shorter than the preceding;
stigma rounded below, obliquely truncate apically; first intercubitus
obsolescent; the third cubital on the radius distinctly shorter than
the second; radiellan cell with a very short appendage; sheath ob-
tusely pointed apically, straight above, tapering to a broad base.
Black; the four anterior tibiae and tarsi (the apical joints of the
intermediate tarsi are infuscated), and the basal two-thirds of the
posterior tibiae white; wings strongly brownish, subhyaline beyond
the apex of the stigma.
Male. — Length 4.5 mm. ; length of the antenna 3.5 mm. In struc-
ture and color the above description of the female applies well to the
male, except the middle fovea is smaller with more sharply sloping
walls and the radiellan cell is entirely without an apendage ; hypopy-
gidium broadly rounded apically; antenna very hairy, the third
joint considerably shorter than the fourth, concave below and very
faintly produced basally so it is fully as broad at the base as the
pedicel, the entire joint one-fifth broader than the fourth; the apical
joint distinctly shorter than the preceding.
Type locality. — East River, Connecticut.
