ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 43
scatteied over the dorsum, these larger in the anterior portion of
the band, the large multilocular disk pores, occurring ventrally in
the abdominal region, and the short cylindrical tubular ducts, these
occurring rarely in or adj acent to the marginal band ; possibly with
tiny quinquelocular pores near the spiracle, but the structure of
these not determinable with certainty,; with large, lanceolate cerarian
spines, smaller, more slender, blunt-tipped spines in the marginal
band, and scattered widel^^ on the dorsum, slender tapering peglike
spines; with slender setae of varying sizes in tiie marginal band and
widely scattered on the body.
Intermediate stages. — None available for examination.
Larva. — Oval, slightly pointed behind, abdominal segmentation
distinct; antennae 6-segmented, the last much the longest; legs nor-
mal, claw simple, digitules normal ; mentum indistinctly 2-segmented ;
anterior dorsal ostioles set back well behind the anterior border of
the framework of the mouthparts, posterior between the fifth and
sixth (visible) abdominal segments; anal lobes somewhat produced,
short triangular, more heavily chitinized than the derm, chitinization
continued anteriorly beneath as a narrow strip bearing the ventral
setae, with a pair of large lanceolate spines above, one apical, the
other just before it, and a long slender, subapical ventral seta and*
a shorter basal one ; anal ring overlapped above by the dorsal derm,
open beneath, set in rather deeply between the anal lobes, cellular and
with six long setae, the longest extending beyond the apex of the anal
lobes; with two pairs of slender setae, the upper about twice the
length of the lower, just beneath the anal ring; upper surface with
trilocular pores and slender, peg-like spines, these mostly paired to-
gether and on the abdomen in three longitudinal rows on each half of
the body, the outer row marginal, the inner submedian, ventral sur-
face with a submedian row of slender setae, and three rows of peg-
like spines, similar to but longer and more slender than the dorsal
ones, on each half of the abdomen, the outer row nearly marginal.
Cotype.—Ciit. No. 24761, U.S.N.M.
The following generic diagnosis has been prepared from the pre-
ceding description.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF EPICOCCUS.
Pseudococcine forms, having dorsal ostioles, triangular pores,
cerarii and other structures normal to that group ; adult female globu-
lar or nearly so, antennae 6-segmented, normal, legs normal, mentum
obscurely 2-segmented, only the two posterior pairs true cerarii, rest
represented by continuous marginal band of spines and pores, the
former somewhat grouped, each cerarius composed of a cluster of
lanceolate spines and triangular pores, the apical pair slightly chitin-
ized beneath, no ventral chltinous thickening, anal ring placed dors-
