4:4: PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. tol. 60.
ally, well separated from lobe area, with six setae and two rows oi
pores, apical seta of lobes smaller than anal ring setae; derm with
three distinct pore types, triangular, multilocular disk and cylin-
drical tubular, and with lanceolate spines (cerarian), slender peg-
like spines and slender pointed setae of varying sizes; larva oval,
antennae 6-segmented, legs normal, dorsum with triangular pores
and slender peg-like spines, anal ring normal, with six setate, anal
lobes developed, each with a pair of large lanceolate spines dorsally
and a subapical and subbasal seta, only the anal lobes with indica-
tions of cerarii.
As will be noted from the preceding description, this species was
incorrectly described by Maskell, and consequently very inaccurately
placed. Cockerell in creating the genus Epicoccus for this species
placed it more correctly, stating that it was " Dactylopiid," which
presumably meant that he followed his key to the genera of Coccidae
in placing it, and so referred to what is called the subfamily Dacty-
lopiinae of the Fernald Catalogue. In this catalogue the genus is
placed just before Phenacoccus^ which locates it still more correctly.
The genus is actually a member of the group, probably a subfamily,
of which Pseudococcus may be looked upon as the typical genus. The
• writers are not sufficiently familiar with this group of genera to state
whether or not this genus is sj^nonymous with any other previously
or subsequently described genus, nor to f)lace it with any accuracy in
the series, although from present knowledge its affinities appear to
lie with Ripersia and its relatives.
Genus LACHNODIUS Maskell.
Genotype. — DactyJopius eucalypti (Maskell).
Reference.—F^Yniildi, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 95.
Maskell included three species in this genus, one previously de-
scribed and two new, at the time he originally established it, and
the type does not appear to have been fixed until the publication of
the Fernald Catalogue, in which eucalypti is indicated as the geno-
type.
There are six slides of this species in the Maskell collection, one of
"adult female, Australia, 1886," one of "adult female, 1893," one of
larvae, Australia, 1886," one of " larvae, 1894," one of " adult male.
Australia, 1886," one of " antennae and feet of male, Australia, 1886."
The 1886 slides are evidently the types of the species. In addition
there is a verj^ small amount of material in position on the host, under
Maskell No. 206. From this material the following description, sup-
plementary to that given by Maskell, has been prepared.
Adult female. — Body of mounted female nearly circular, antennae
7-segmented, similar to the Eriococcus type rather than to the Pseu-
