46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
and more numerous slender setae, the latter varying considerably in
size; so far as can be noted, with only two types of "derm pores, quin-
quelocular disk and large tubular, the latter opening into a somewhat
chitinized circle and with the inner end appearing slightly bilobed
from some angles at least ; anal lobes completely wanting, no traces
of apical spines or setae evident; anal ring set well in from the
margin, circular, bearing about 20 setae, mostly large, but some
slightly but distinctly smaller, and with pores, these not in continuous
rows as in Pseudococcus and its relatives, but with a circle of pores
around the base of each seta, an arrangement similar to that already
described for Sphaerococcopsis.
Intermediate stage. — Not known.
Larva. — Small, broad oval, flat, margin of body with a continuous
series of flat, pointed flabellate spines, these shorter and broader
anteriorly, longer and more slender posteriorly, the continuous row
interrupted only a little on each side of the head at the eyespots;
with a total of 31-32 pairs of these around the body, the three
posterior pairs smaller and very frequently broken off more or less
at the apices; antennae 6-segmented, cylindrical, the apical segment
longest, with a seta at apex about as long as the whole antenna and
with the three apical segments each with one or more slender curved
spines ; legs rather stout, the tibia noticeably shorter than the tarsus,
the digitules slender with a slight knob at apex, the tarsal about
twice the length of the claw, claw without denticle ; mentum small,
short triangular, apparently 1-segmented; dorsal ostioles wanting,
anal lobes not developed, the apex of the body with only an incision
for the anal ring; lobes indicated by the presence of a long slender
seta on each side of the ring, between the second and third flabellate
spine; anal ring small, vertical, so far as can be observed with six
setae, of Avhich the lower two are distinctly larger than the others, the
presence or absence of pores in ring not determinable ; body appar-
ently Avithout derm pores ; dorsally with a submedian row of slender
setae each set in a large ring base, with an additional pair of these on
each side of the thorax ; ventrally with a submarginal row of minute
spines, one to a segment, and on the posterior abdominal segments
with an inner similar row.
Cotype.—C^t. No. 24762, U.S.N.M.
All of the three species described by Maskell as members of this
genus can probably be properly retained in it. It is doubtful if any
of the others subsequently placed here are properly assigned, since
it seems apparent that later writers have confused certain Pesudo-
coccine forms with this genus on account of the numerous anal ring
setae. The writers can not relocate these species definitely, but
suggest the possibility that the genus Lachnodiella Hempel (origi-
