ART. i:i. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCTDAE MORRISON. 47
nally proposed without description by von Ihering) will fit them
more correctly than any other described genus. The larvae of
Maskell's three species can easily be separated, as those of both
lectulaHus and hlrtus have conical marginal spines, instead of the
swollen ones found in eucalypti^ while the lectularius larva is even
broader oval than eucalypti, and that of hirtus is much more slender,
and tapers strongly behind, and as compared with lectularius, bears
numerous body setae. The adults may also be readily differentiated,
that of lectulaHus having a closely set continuous marginal row of
long conical, slender tipped, and rather delicate spines, while, as
stated, eucalypti has short, stout conical spines, alternating with
slender setae, and hirtus has undifferentiated marginal spines, and
the whole dorsum with numerous but scattered slender, long, and
rather delicate spines. The differences in /virtue, both in larva and
adult, are such that it may prove desirable to remove it to a distinct
genus after it has been studied more thoroughly.
An effort has been made to cover the three Maskell species in the
following generic diagnosis :
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF LACHNODFUS.
" Dactylopiine " coccids, occurring free or protected by the bark
of the host, naked or more or less covered by secretion ; adult female
circular, flattened, antennae normally 7-segmented, tending to be
long and slender, the terminal segment smallest, legs rather stout,
the tibia much longer than the tarsus; mentum 1-segmented; dorsal
ostioles wanting, derm with two types of pores, quinquelocular disk
and large tubular opening into chitinized ring (based on eucalypti
only) ; derm with spines and slender setae more or less definitely
arranged along the margin and dorsally, anal lobes wanting, no anal
cleft, no cerarii, anal ring dorsal, some distance from margin, circu-
lar, complete, bearing numerous (about 20) setae of varying lengths,
each of these with a circle of pores aromid its base; intermediate
stages of female not laiown; larva elongate to very broad oval,
margin with an almost continuous series of stout spines, lanceolate
or conical, with a single pair of apical setae, antemiae 6-segmented,
the apical largest; legs noiTnal, mentum 1-segmented, no dorsal
ostioles, anal lobes not developed, derm pores wanting, body setae,
except marginal, small, slender, more or less numerous, anal ring
with six setae.
The writers are unfortunately able to offer no definite suggestions
as to the proper position of this genus within the " subfamily "
Dactylopiinae. Its possible connection with Sphaerococcopsis has
already been indicated in the specific description. It does seem
