48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol. GO.
obvious that it is not closely related to the Pseudococcus group of
genera as has been believed by authors subsequent to Maskell.
Genus ERIUM Cockerell.
Genotype. — Dactylopius glohosus Maskell.
References. — Fernald, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 112. — Morrison,
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vol. 21, 1919, p. 74.
The confusion which already exists in regard to this genus has
been still further complicated by the discovery, as will be evident
from the following description, that a serious error has been made
as to the species that is really the type of the genus. From the con-
text of Maskell's comments on the species D. gJohosus following his
description, it is evident that he regarded the material received from
Crawford some years before the publication of the description as
the true type specimens of the species. A careful examination of
Maskell's slides and material shows plainly that the specimens he
mentions as having come from Mr, French are a different species from
those received from Crawford, and that it is specimens of Mr.
French's species which Maskell has sent out to other coccidologists,
thus giving to other entomologists an incorrect conception of the
genus. The group of species placed under Erium in the Fernald
Catalogue will therefore, if they represent a valid generic group,
require a new genus name, while E. glohosmn of authore (Maskell
in part only) will need a new specific name. The vrriters therefore
propose the name A^nonostherium, new genus, for the group of
species formerly included under Erium^ propose the specific name
co7ifusu?7i, new species, for the species r/Johosum of authors and
Maskell in part, and designat-e the common American species Uch-
tensioides (Cockerell) as the type of this new genus, but for the
present do not attempt to indicate definitely the disposition of all
the species formerly placed under Erium.
This species is represented in the Maskell collection by a single
slide labeled " adult female, Australia, 1886." There is also another,
labeled '* adult female, 1891," representing Amonostherium confusum.
There is also some unmounted material, divided into three lots, under
No. 82, one of which represents true Enum glohosuvi., while the other
two are the previously unnamed species. The following descriptions
and figures have been taken from Maskell's true type material.
Adult female. — Oval, stout, strongly convex, enclosed in a fluffy
white sac; antennae 7-segmented, rather stout and short, the ter-
minal segment longest; legs short and stout, otherwise normal, the
digitules knobbed, the claw pair stouter; every part of hind legs
except tarsus with numerous small clear pores, not dehnitely
grouped; mentum rather long triangular, distinctly 2-segmental;
