iRT.VJ. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 53
long, slender setae, larger tubular ducts and, near the anal ring, a
few multilocular disk pores.
Intermediate stages. — Not known.
Larva. — Eather elongate oval, antennae large, 6-segniented, termi-
nal segment much the largest and tapering to an acute point; legs
normal, rather slender, tarsus longer than tibia, digitules all long,
slender, slightly knobbed, one of tarsus placed basad of the other,
claws with a tiny denticle near the apex; mentum 2-segmented,
tapering, apex almost conical and with a number of long setae;
anal lobes slightly developed, each with a chitinized area dorsally,
this bearing a single triangular pore placed between a pair of lanceo-
late spines, ventrally and subapically with a long, stout seta, slightly
longer than the anal ring seta; body ventrally with two tiny, cir-
cular submarginal rings on each segment and six longitudinal rows
of slender setae; dorsally with three more or less complete rows of
slender spines with similar but stouter spines along the margin, and
with five more or less complete rows of triangular pores; with two
pairs of dorsal ostioles, both distinct; anal ring circular, with six
setae and some pores.
Cotype.—Cnt. No. 24764, U.S.N.M.
The following generic diagnosis has been drawn from the preced-
ing description.
GENEEIC DIAGNOSIS OF PSEUDORIPERSIA.
Pseudococcine forms having the adult female enclosed in a thin,
tough, globular sac attached to the twigs of the host; adult female
globular, somewhat flattened; dorsum and sides, except posterior
apex, more heavily chitinized, antennae small and short, 6-segmented ;
legs large, very stout and short, the posterior pair attached very
far back, the three pairs radiating from the circular body at about
equal distances from each other, segments fused so that only two
segments and a claw remain ; mentum 2-segmented ; with at least the
posterior dorsal ostioles present, with the posterior cerarii only de-
veloped, placed on a half oval chitinized area, remainder of cerarii
represented by a continuous row of pores and lanceolate spines, ac-
com]3anied by a less distinct inner row, cerarii made up of lanceolate
spines and triangular pores, but no setae; dorsal derm with laiiceolate
spines, triangular pores and tubular ducts, ventral derm with long
slender setae and multilocular disk pores ; anal ring large, circular,
with six setae and numerous pores of two sorts; larva elongate oval,
antennae 6-segmented, legs normal, mentum 2-segmented, dorsal
ostioles present, anal cerarius developed, with chitinized area, two
spines and a tnangular pore, body with row of setae and triangular
pores, anal ring with six setae.
