28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
Described from two females (one type) and two males (one
allotype) reared from larvae collected on Betula populifolia by
Chas. R. Ely, and recorded under Bureau of Entomology Number
Hopk. U. S. 10754*=- (type and allotype) and 10757' (paratypes).
Type.— Cat. No. 21588, U.S.N.M.
Larvae. — Similar to P. pi^ni Kohwer but in the few specimens
available for study, entirely pale excepting a faint grayness laterally
on the mesothorax and metathorax and ninth abdominal segment.
These larvae, however, were young, the largest being only 6.5 mm. in
length.
Host. — Betula populifolia.
Seasonal History. — Solitary feeders from the underside of the leaf
similar to P. jn^uni Rohwer. Larvae collected about one-half or
two-thirds grown on August 25 spun coccoons August 30 and trans-
formed to pupae September 4. The adults emerged September 16.
PRIOPHORUS RUBIVORUS Rohwer, new species.
A small species readily distinguished by the postfurcal recurren-
tella. The eastern ruhi is much larger and is very easily separated
by the presence of a median fovea in the postocellar area.
Female. — Length, 4.5 mm.; length of antenna about 3 mm. Cly-
peus gently convex, the anterior margin not depressed, broadly and
very shallowly emarginate, lateral angles (no distinct lobes) ob-
tusely rounded; supraclypeal foveae deep but not distinctly sepa-
rated from the antennal foveae; middle fovea very shallow, elon-
gate, not sharply defined or breaking through the crest ; ocellar basin
very poorly defined, the walls obsolete above and broadly rounded
below ; antennal furrows obsolete opposite the ocellar basin ; a rather
distinct, small depression both immediately before and behind the
anterior ocellus; postocellar line subequal with the ocellocular line;
postocellar furrow wanting; postocellar area without a median fovea
on anterior margin, sharply defined laterally by the slightly diverg-
ing vertical furrows; antenna rather short, tapering, the third and
fourth joints subequal stigma short, broad, but little more than twice
as long as greatest width, rounded below; first intercubitus obso-
lescent; three abscissae of radius subequal in length; second cubital
cell on radius about two and one-third times as long as third inter-
cubitus; radiellan cell closed and with a short appendage; recurren-
tella postfurcal by about half the length of intercubitella ; sheath
broad, pointed apicaly. Black; palpi dark brown, tegulae almost
entirely black; hind trochanters, tibiae and tarsi, except the in-
fuscate apices of hind tibiae and apical joints of all tarsi, yellowish-
ferruginous ; wings hyaline ; venation brown.
Type locality. — Portland, Oregon.
