AUT. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 55
bodj^ elsewhere with scattered setae of varying lengths, both dorsally
and ventrall}^; these, in general, longer posteriorly and toward the
margin; derm with three and possibly more, distinct types of pores
(see figures), somewhat triangular pores, but apparently with six
loculi, corresponding to the usual trilocular, occurring both dorsally
and ventrally; relatively large multilocular disk pores also both
dorsal and ventral, and most abundant near posterior apex, and ver)^
rarely tubular ducts; also a large quadrilocular pore, probably a
modified multilocular disk pore, and a very peculiar double tubular
duct, possibly a modification of the normal type noted ; body beneath,
some distance behind the posterior legs with a pair of tiny truncate
conical structures the exact nature and function of which can not be
determined.
Immature stages. — None available.
Cotype.—C&t. No. 24765, U.S.N.M.
The writers have not had access to satisfactory study material of
any of the other species which have been placed in this genus, all of
which are American, and are therefore unable to comment on their
status with relation to the type. The following genus diagnosis ha^
been prepared only from the preceding description.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF KIPERSIELLA.
Pseudococcine forms, probably altogether root inhabiting; adult
female elongate oval, antennae short and stout, 6-segmented, placed
very close together at the apex of the body, legs stout and short, with
acute claw digitules and no denticle, mentum 2-segmented, two pairs
of dorsal ostioles present, no cerarii developed, posterior pair and
apical seta represented by three long setae, no specialized body spines,
anal ring with six setae and large, faint areolations, without the usual
rows of pores, derm with large multilocular disk pores, small some-
what triangular pores and tubular ducts, perhaps with other sorts,
and with slender setae.
Genus CHAETOCOCCUS Maskell.
Plate 3, fig. 3.
Genotype. — Sphaerococcus hambusae Maskell.
Reference.— YQvn^ld, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 120.
This genus was established by Maskell for a species he had formerly
included in his genus Sphaerococcus because it had been discovered
hy Mr. E. E. Green that the type, hcmhusae had setae on the anal
ring, while Maskell was of the opinion that casuarinae, the type of
Sphaerococcus, had no anal ring setae; actually these two type species
status with relation to the type. The following genus diagnosis has
been discussed in detail previously in this paper and elsewhere.
