58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol.60
COCCUS that probabljT' no other species originalh'^ inchided in that
genus are really congeneric with the type, as ^fhaerococcus is at
present isolated on the basis of the presence of legs in the second
stage of the female.
The following generic diagnosis is based on the preceding de-
scription.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF CHAETOCOCCUS.
Modified Pseudococcine forms living parth^ surrounded by secre-
tion in protected situations on the host; adult female large, oval,
tapering, and somewhat pointed behind, flattened, heavily chitinized
at maturity, antennae reduced to tiny tubercles, legs wanting, men-
turn indistinctly 2-segm.ented, dorsal ostioles obscure, no cerarii de-
veloped, body with spines, particularlj'^ posteriorly, and with multi-
locular disk pores, triangular pores, and tubular ducts, with a pore
plate behind each hind spiracle, anal ring with pores, placed at
inner end of invaginated tube, and with six setae protruding some-
what; larva elongate, parallel-sided, antennae 6-segmented, the apical
long, legs normal, derm with longitudinal rows of trilocular pores
and small slender setae, no definite cerarii, at least posterior dorsal
ostioles present, with a pair of apical setae but no evident anal lobes,
anal ring with pores and six slender setae.
This genus very obviously belongs with the group of modified
Pseudococcine forms of which Antonma is the oldest described genus,
and which also includes Sphaerococcug and possibly other, mis-
placed, genera. The writers consider Chaetococcus to be doubtfully
distinct from Aiitoniva, as this latter genus is commonly understood,
the only apparent difference occurring in the very heavy thickening
of the derm which developes all over the body of Chaetococcus at
maturity, instead of merely on the posterior abdominal segments as
in Antonifia.
Genus KUWANINA Cockerell.
Genotype. — Sjjhaerococcus parvus Maskell.
References.— Fe^vndildi, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 121.— Green, Ent.
Month. Mag., vol. 51, 1915, p. 181.— Ferris, Can. Ent., vol. 50, Oct.
1918, p. 324.
This genus was established by Cockerell in the Fernald Catalogue
on the basis of the larval characteristics only, and with a single
included species. One other species, Sphaerococcus ohscuratus
Maskell has recently been added to the genus by Ferris, but the
writers have had no opportunity to study satisfactory^ material of
this last species, and in view of the doubt expressed at the time of
its reassignment, have decided to confine the generic diagnosis which
follows to the type species.
