80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
Subfamily Coccinae.
Genus CERONEMA Maskell.
Plate 3, fig. 4.
Genotype. — Ceronema hanksiae Maskell.
Beference.—FernaM, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 127.
At the time of original description, Maskell included only the
type species in this genus, although he later added another to it.
Ceronema hatiksiae is represented in the Maskell collection by
three slides, one of " adult female, 1894," one of " 2nd stage female,
1894," and one of " larvae, 1894," and by a single unmounted adult
female specimen, two ovisacs and a male puparium bearing No. 421.
Maskell appears to have described the different stages with con-
siderable accuracy, so the following notes are to some extent a repe-
tition of his work.
Adult female. — External appearance as described by Maskell.
body elongate oval, more or less asymmetrical, flattened, or slightly
convex, dorsal derm heavily chitinized except along margin of body,
punctured by numerous pores, anal plates placed close to the pos-
terior apex; antennae 6-segmented, third very long; legs normal,
small, rather slender, claw stout, with denticle, digitules slender,
long, knobbed at apices; mentum not discernible; spiracles normal
for the group; marginal spines rather long, slender, acute setae,
usually separated by several times the length of one; spiracular
spines about 5-7 in each group, all stout and bluntly rounded, but
varying greatly in size, the end of the spiracular groove marked by a
curved chitinized thickening; dorsal derm with an occasional tiny
spine set at the end of a clear pore ; dorsally with three types of pores,
small simple circular pores, larger tubular ducts and much larger
tubular ducts, these at intervals along the margin and appar-
ently corresponding to the marginal tubercles so conspicuous in
some Lecanine species, the first two numerous over most of the sur-
face, except in a median longitudinal area, the last with about 33
around the body margin, with similar, but less developed and
smaller pores intervening between many of the larger ones, to the
number of 20 ; ventrally along the body margin with numerous long
tubular ducts, similar to but much smaller than the second type de-
scribed for the dorsum, and with two sorts of multilocular disk
pores, the larger with, usually, six loculi, in the anal region, the
others, somewhat smaller and usually with five loculi, between spi-
racles and margin of body ; anal plates each more than twice as long
as wide, the anterior halves of the pair almost forming a semicircle,
but the posterior half of each tapering, slender, forming almost
a rounded point at the apex, plates without dorsal setae, with four
