ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 63
Green's elaborate figures and description. G. africana McFie also
differs in morphological characters from the type of the genus, and
can hardly be included in it on such grounds. The writers are not
able to suggest any other genus location for the last three species
discussed, but do believe that, at most, only the three Australian
species can be legitimately included in the genus Ceronema.
The following generic diagnosis is based almost wholly on the type
species :
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF CERONEMA.
Coccine forms (of Fei'nald Catalogue), female at maturity sur-
rounded by a heavy secretion of waxy threads covering all of the
body except a portion of the dorsum; adult female with heavily
chitinized dorsal derm with numerous pore canal punctures, 6-seg-
mented antenna, normal legs, normal spiracles, slender acute margi-
nal setae, numerous, stout, bluntly rounded spiracular spines in the
usual four groups, each accompanied by a chitinized plate, with
minute setae dorsally, derm pores dorsally of three types, minute
simple pores, large tubular ducts and " submarginal tubercles," all
numerous, ventral pores small tubular ducts and two sizes of multi-
locular disk pores, anal plates slender, tapering posteriorly, no dorsal
setae on these, some apical setae, a few ventral setae, no fringe setae
apparently, no hypopygial setae, anal ring placed anterior to plates,
small, with pores and eight setae ; larva elongate, tapering posteriorly,
legs and antennae very long and slender, spiracular spines subequal in
length, all stout, blunt, with submarginal and submedian large con-
spicuous tubular ducts, anal ring with 6 setae, anal plates slender, not
reticulated, bearing an apical seta about half as long as body.
The characters presented by the type of this genus seem quite sufll-
cient to justify its retention.
Genus ERIOCHITON Maskell.
Plate 3, fig. 5.
Genotype. — Eriochiton hispidus Maskell.
Reference.— FQvndld, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 127.
The type of this genus was automatically set by Maskell in describ-
ing it with only the single included species, although the first definite
statement regarding a type species appears to be that in the Fernald
Catalogue.
The Maskell collection contains only a single slide of the species
labeled " adult female from Olearia, 1880," and a few unmounted
specimens in different stages under No. 59. From the latter it has
been possible to obtain mounts of the larva.
Adult female. — Short oval, almost elliptical, slightly convex, derm
clearing completely on boiling in potassium hydroxide; antennae
