ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 65
surface with some small, slender setae in addition to the spines;
ventral derm with some larger slender setae; with only tiny, long-
tubular ducts occasionally near the margin, and with tiny quin-
quelocular pores near the spiracles, and a few similar but slightly
larger beneath the anal plates ; these stout broad, each about half or
a little more as wide as long, broadest before the middle, tapering
behind, both the inner and outer margins curving so the tips are
well separated, dorsally with a large stout spine before the middle
and a subapical seta, apparently without apical setae, ventrally with
a strong seta, flattened and expanded apically, at the posterior end
of the ventral ridge, and with a single large fringe seta on each
side ; anal ring placed within the plates, rather large, oval, slender,
with a single row of pores and eight stout setae; hypopygial setae
wanting.
Intermediate stages. — None available for examination.
Larva. — Body oval, broadest at or before the middle, the two ends
bluntly rounded, v/hole margin of the body with a single row of long,
slender, blunt-tipped spines ; with a median longitudinal double row
of similar but smaller spines, three transverse rows of similar spines
on head and thorax, and an additional longitudinal double row on
each half of the abdomen; spiracular spines not differentiated;
dorsum without other setae, ventrally ^s^ith an occasional tiny slender
seta; with slender tubular ducts along the body margin, no other
pores noted; antennae C-segmented, legs normal, rather stout, claw
with denticle; anal plates more or less invaginated within margin,
stout, irregular in shape, bearing a slender hair at apex, a stout
blunt spine of unusual shape, expanded at apex, latero-ventrally,
and still a third anterior to this, and much smaller, dorsally with a
large stout, blunt-tipped spine, similar to the marginal spines mid-
dorsally, and two similar but smaller spines arising from the inner
margin of each plate ; anal ring apparently with six setae.
Cotype.—Cvit. No. 24767, U. S. N. M.
Two other species have been included in this genus, one of which, E.
spinosus (Maskell), is quite obviousl}' congeneric with the type, dif-
fering conspicuously only in the fact that the dorsal truncate spines
are very few in number and are confined largely to the median longi-
tudinal area. The other species, E. theae Green, differs so decidedly
from the type species in certain morphological characters, notably the
conspicuous differentiation of the spiracular spine groups and the de-
velopment of longitudinal submedian clusters of conical spines, as to
make its elimination from the genus desirable. As has already been
noted, Maskell's specimens of Ceronema jayonica are apparently pre-
adult, so it is not possible to state definitely that Mr. Green's intima-
tion at the time he described theae., that his species might be the same
as G . japonica is correct. However, from a comparison of Green's care-
