66 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol. 60.
ful description with Maskell's types, it is possible to state that the two
are very plainly congeneric, and that of the differences suggested by
Green,^^ only that of the number of antennae segments stands, and
even this can be accounted for on the basis of immaturity. The early
stage of the Maskell specimens would preclude the formation of a com-
plete test, and the anal ring actually has six setae, such as Green de-
scribed for E. theae, instead of eleven as figured by Maskell. As a
matter of opinion, the writers consider the two to be the same species.
The following generic diagnosis has been based upon the two
Maskell species from New Zealand.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF ERIOCHITON.
Coccine forms of the Fernald Catalogue, the adult female enclosed
in a test composed of compact felted secretion, this test more or less
complete; adult female elliptical, antennae T-segmented, legs small,
normal, claw with denticle, mentum 1-segmented, margin and dorsum
of body with long, slender, blunt-tipped spines more or less numer-
ously developed, spiracular spines not differentiated, dorsal and ven-
tral surfaces with some slender setae, only small, slender, long-tubular
ducts and tiny quinquelocular disk pores present on body, anal phites
stout, broad, with a large stout, blunt dorsal spine and some setae, with
one large fringe seta on each side, hypopygial setae -wanting, anal ring
with pores and eight setae; larva stout, antennae 6-segmented, legs
stout, normal, claw with denticle, at least the margin of the bod}' with
a fringe of long, slender, blunt-tipped spines, spiracular spines not
differentiated, only long tubular ducts present, at margin, anal plates
more or less retracted, stout, with stout spines and setae, anal ring with
pores and six setae.
Genus MALLOCOCCUS Maskel!.
Plate 4, fig. 1.
Genotype. — Mallophora sinensis Maskell.
Reference.— FQvuiild, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 142.
Mallococcus is a new name substituted by Maskell for the genus
name MaUofhora., established by him for the single species siiiensis, a
name which proved "to be preoccupied.
There are four slides of the type of this genus in the Maskell collec-
tion, one of " adult female, 1896," one of " abdomen of female, 1896,''
one of " antenna of female, 1896," and one of " larva, 1896." There is
in addition a little unmounted material under No. 512.
Adult female. — "Covered by a closel}'-- felted secretion" — (Mas-
kell), this, in the dried material a dense but brittle, almost homo-
geneous test ; bod}^ stout, elliptical, almost circular, shriveling into a
1= Ind. Mus. Notes, vol. .5, 1900, p. 11.
