ART. 1. NORTH AMERICAN SAWFLIES ROHWER. 29
Described from a single female recorded under Bureau of Ento-
mology number Quaintance 14055 collected by E. J. Newcomer,
August 10, 1917 and labeled " On raspberry."
Type.— Cut No. 23557, U.S.N.M.
PRIOPHORUS SALICIVORUS Rohwer. new species.
Figures 20, 21, 34, 35, 41, 47, 56.
Female. — Length 4.5 mm.; length of antenna 3.5 mm. Clypeus
shining, strongly convex medianly, the apical margin broadly, shal-
lowly, arcuateW emarginate; supraclypeal foveae punctiform, small,
not much deeper than the antennal foveae; middle fovea oval in out-
line; ocellar basin with the lateral walls obsolete, the lower wall
poorly defined, rounded and unbroken ; antennal furrows obsolete be-
low the ocelli; postocellar area gently convex (incompletely defined
laterally by a foveaeform depression) ; postocellar furrow obsolete;
a faint depression behind the anterior ocellus ; antennae as in figures
20 and 34, short, not tapering, the third joint distinctly shorter than
the fourth, the apical joint subequal with the preceding; first inter-
cubitus obsolescent; third cubital cell on the radius, slightly longer
than the second; stigma short, broad at base, gradually tapering to
the apex; radiellan cell with a short distinct appendage; sheath
straight above, sharp apically tapering from the broad base, as seen
from below the sheath is narrow, ovipositor as in figures 41 and 47.
Black; four anterior tibiae and tarsi (the apical joints and all of
the intermediate tarsi are brownish) and the basal two-thirds of the
posterior tibiae, extreme base of the posterior basitarsus, whitish;
wings strongly brownish basally, subhyaline beyond the apex of the
stigma.
Male. — Length, 4 mm. The male differs from the above descrip-
tion of the female in having the middle fovea more elongate and
deeper, breaking completely through the lower wall of the ocellar
basin; hypopygidium narrowly rounded; posterior tibiae entirely
brownish; antennae (see figs. 21 and 35) pale beneath, the third
joint broader than the fourth but simple ; radiellan cell with a very
short appendage.
Type locality. — East River, Connecticut.
Described from three females (one type) and two males (one
allotype) reared from larva collected on Salix by Chas. R. Ely, and
recorded under Bureau of Entomology number Hopk. U. S. 13656°.
Type.~C?it. No. 21589, U.S.N.M.
Larva. — Length, 11 mm. Black spot at vertex small; black spot
about each eye also small and not extending more than half way to
edge of cranium (fig. 56). Otherwise the larvae are similar to those
previously described, with dorsum pale between the grayish thorax
and the markings on eighth and ninth urites.
