68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol. 60.
small distorted mass at the anterior end of and free from the test
after producing young; venter of abdominal segments more heavily
chitinized; antennae, 7-8-seginented, the third usually somewhat
the longest; legs rather slender, claw stout, without denticle; tarsal
digitules slender, long, with stout knob, claw digitules large and
broad, with large knob; spiracles short and stout, strongly con-
stricted; mentum stout, short triangular, 2-segmented; body dor-
sally with fairly numerous, but scattered, large, stout, conical spines,
invaginated their whole length within the body, arranged in indefi-
nite transverse rows and more numerous near the margin; body
along margin wnth a single to triple row of slender, very acutely
pointed spines ; spiracular spines represented by a single one, about
twice as long as the marginal, slender, but stouter near the tip than
the marginal, and bluntly rounded at apex, opposite each spiracle;
ventrally with pairs of long hairs on the segments anterior to the
anal ring; dorsally with numerous 8-shaped pores, these clustered
in indefinite fashion around the large conical invaginated spines,
with a few small circular pores, and with numerous slender tubular
ducts with deep, cup-shaped bottoms, and slender prolongations
scattered promiscuously; ventrally with similar ducts, with trans-
verse rows of larger muitilocular-disk pores, and, finally, with some
small tubular ducts, the disk pores with about eleven loculi placed
anterior to the anal ring; those, about half as large, with five or six
loculi, scattered between each spiracle and its marginal spine, each
rov7 of these terminating in a dense cluster at the base of the spine :
anal ring small and stout, with pores and six setae, surrounded by a
pair of curved plates, flat, short, and deej) — that is, long dorso- ven-
trally, somewhat pitted above, each bearing four setae, and one
ventral ridge seta ; a single fringe seta on each side.
Intermediate stages. — Not available for examination.
Larva. — Elongate oval, somewhat broader anteriorly; antennae
6-segmented, terminal segment longest, legs normal, claw with den-
ticle, all digitules slender, knobbed, one tarsal digitule inserted above
the other and slightly longer; mentum stout triangular, apparently
1-segmented ; with a single long, cylindrical, blunt-tipped spiracular
spine opposite each spiracle; margin of body with a row of short,
blunt, tapering spines, about one to a segment, and a submarginal
row of tiny, apparently simple pores, dorsally with a submedian
longitudinal row of 8-shaped pores on each side, ventrally with two
or three longitudinal rows of slender setae and a single row of tiny
pores on each half, also with two or three multilocular disk pores
between each spiracle and its spine; anal plates protruding, each
chitinized, bearing one apical spine, two smaller spines, one slender
apical seta, and a smaller seta ; anal ring with pores and six setae.
Cotype.—QoX. No. 24768, U.S.N.M. ^
