ART. 12. MASKELL GENEKA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 69
One other species, M. lanigerum (Hempel.) was doubtfully in-
cluded in this genus according to the Fernald Catalogue, but it is
obviously not related to the type at all, and the following generic
diagnosis is therefore based wholly on the type species.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS 01" MALLOCOCCUS.
Apparently Coccine forms having the adult female enclosed in a
test composed of waxy threads, ovate, with well-developed legs and
antennae, the latter 7-8 segmented, 2-segniented mentum, a single
spiracular spine opposite each spiracle, slender, acutely pointed mar-
ginal spines, numerous large, conical dorsal spines, invaginated their
whole length into the derm, numerous small 8-shaped pores dorsally,
small slender tubular ducts and minute circular pores both dorsally
and ventrall}'', and two sizes of multilocular disk pores ventrally,
anal ring with pores and six setae, surrounded by a pair of " plates
united below, free above ; larva eloiigate oval ; antennae 6-segmented,
legs normal, claw with denticle, spiracular spines single, margin with
small but stout spines, with a dorsal submedian row of 8-shaped pores
on each side, anal lobes protruding, bearing an apical seta and stout
spines.
In certain respects this genus resembles some members of the sub-
family Asterolecaniinae so much that it stands either as a remark-
able example of parallel modification or as a connecting unit indicat-
ing a relationship between the two groups of genera.
Genus LECANOCHITON Maskell.
Plate 4, ng. 2.
Genotype. — Lecanochiton nnetrosideri Maskell.
7?e/ere7ice.— Fernald, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 147.
Lecanochiton was established by Maskell with a single included
species, which therefore stands as the type. The small amount of
material available for examination and the peculiar nature of the
species has made this type a most difficult and unsatisfactory one
to study, and fresh, and perhaps living material is much needed
to straighten out some points in its anatomy and to verify statements
made here.
The Maskell collection contains a single slide of "tests of adult
from Kata, Jan. 1881," and a little unmounted material bearing
No. 31.
Adult female. — Circular, convex, shaped like an inverted basket,
covered by a test having the cast second stage skin in the middle
of the dorsum (Maskell) ; anal cleft relatively long, dorsum heavily
chitinized, venter slightly so, both clearing somewhat in potassium
hydroxide so the venter becomes transparent; antennae apparently
