-74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE N^ATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
stouter than the other ; spiracular spines single, relatively large and
stout, margin with a widely separated row of small slender setae;
with 2-3 tiny quinquelocular disk pores between each spiracle and its
spine, no other pores noted ; anal plates triangular, with a long apical
seta, not reticulated; anal ring small, with pores, and, apparently,
six setae.
Ootype.—C^t. No. 24770 U.S.N.M.
A considerable number of species has been included in this genus,
and while it is not possible to comment accurately regarding the dis-
position of most of these, on account of the confusion existing in this
and related genera, it seems probable that most of the New Zealand
sepecies now included here are rather closely related to the type and
may be left in the genus for the present; C. eucalypti Maskell and
C. rhizophorae Maskell do not appear to be congeneric with the type,
but we can not indicate their proper location at present ; C. ceUulosa
Cockerell appears to be a C eroplastodes in the sense of Ceroplastodes
cajani (Maskell), which in turn is probably not congeneric with the
type of O eroplastodes. Beyond these, no suggestions can be offered
at this time as to the remainder of the species now included in the
genus.
The following generic diagnosis has been prepared chiefly from the
description of the type species, with reference to some of the other
included species.
GENEKIC DIAGNOSIS OF CTENOCHITON.
Coccine forms (of Fernald Catalogue) ; adult female more or less
convex, usually x^ry slightly so, covered in life with glassy, whitish,
or transparent wax plates, these often fragile and broken or wanting,
projecting beyond the body margin like saw teeth when perfect;
antennae G-8-segmented, the third usually long; legs and spiracles
normal, the claw digitules somewhat swollen, claw with or without
denticle, mentum 1-segmented, marginal setae small, conical spines
set variably from very close together to some distance apart, accord-
ing to the species, spiracular spines single, large, strongly differen-
tiated, dorsal .setae wanting or very small, dorsal spines present in
a definite pattern in some species, ventral setae few. not conspicuous,
derm with tiny tubular ducts and, ventrally, with two sizes of multi-
locular disk pores, with or without other types of pores, anal cleft
short, plates small, tapering behind, with apical and subapical setae
and a large dorsal pore (or hair base) , with ventral ridge setae, with-
out fringe setae, without hypopygial setae, anal ring placed anterior
to plates, with six setae and double row of pores; larva ovate, anten-
nae 6-segmented, legs normal, spiracular spines occurring singly,
marginal setae small, slender, spiracular disk pores present, anal
