'■rri. VJ. IvIASKELL GENEKA OF COCGIDAE MOKRISON". 75
plates triangular, with long apical seta, anal ring small, with pores
and six setae.
Genus INGLISIA Elaskeli.
Plate 4, fig. 4.
Genotype. — Inglisia patella Maskell.
^e/erewce.— Fernald, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, pp. 162, 163.
Inglisia was first described by Maskell in 1879, and originally in-
cluded only the single species patella., which consequently stands as
the type.
This species is represented in the Maskell collection by a single
slide of " rostrum, antennae, foot, and spiracle, June, 1881," and by
a very few unmounted specimens under No. 46. There is thus no
indication that Maskell retained in his collection the specimens he
studied when describing the species and genus, and it seems probable
that they are no longer in existence. The species is so distinct in
certain structural characters, however, that there would seem to be no
question as to the identity of the later material with that originally
described.
Adult female. — The glassy external covering, as described by
Maskell, that is limpet-shaped; body indistinctly eight-sided, anal
cleft very short, derm clearing completely in potassium hydroxide,
convex above, but flattening without injury on mounting; antennae
small and short, indistinctly 7-segmented; legs small, short, normal,
joint between tibia and tarsus somewhat indistinct, tarsal digitules
slender, knobbed, but one larger than the other, claw digitules en-
larged, both swollen at tips, claw small and stout, without denticle;
mentum 1-segmented. small; spiracles small, not strongly constricted
in middle; marginal spines small, short, of two distinctly different
sorts, one stout, clavate, the other slender, tapering, straight, both
set in cup-shaped sockets and normally alternating ; spiraoular spines
not differentiated, their location indicated only by a slight marginal
indentation and a few quinquelocular pores; both dorsally and
ventrally with a few tiny, slender setae, especiall}^ near the margin,
and with a transverse row of the same some distance anterior to the
anal plates; with only slender tubular ducts, mostly along the
margin, probably dorsally and with a few tiny quinquelocular pores,
all of one size, between each spiracle and the body margin, and
around the anal plates; dorsally, just behind the conical apex of the
body, with a pair of large somewhat quadrate compound cribriform
plates; submarginal tubercles apparent^ wanting; anal plates small,
short triangular, the inner face of each from a little anterior to the
middle to the apex with five large " pores," presumably the in-
sertions for short spines, with a similar pore dorsally about a third
