ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCLDAE MORRISON. 77
Larva (embryonic).— Elongate oval, antennae G-segmented, legs
normal, claw with denticle, digitules slender, one tarsal longer and
larger than the other, inserted above it, one of the claw similarly
enlarged; mentum very short, 1-segmented; body margin with a
continuous closely set row of clavate spines, some slightly smaller
than others, accompanied above and below by more widely sepa-
rated tiny submarginal setae ; with a pair of long slender hairs ven-
trally anterior to the anal ring; body apparently without gland
pores ; anal plates slender, tapering, with a long apical seta and six
other slender setae ; anal ring small, with pores and six setae.
Cotype.—Cixt. No. 24771, U.S.N.M.
Eleven species besides the type have been included in this genus
by various writers. After an examination of specimens or descrip-
tions of all of these, the conclusion that no one of them is congeneric
with the type is unavoidable. The peculiar character of the margi-
nal spines and the complete lack of differentiation of the spiracular
spines in both adult and larva, and the development of the unusual
compound cribriform plates in the adult all serve to separate the
type species sharply and widely from the other species included in
the genus, and similarly from the other species and genera of the
group in which the genus has been placed, in so far as the latter are
known to the writers.
The following generic diagnosis is therefore confined to the type
species.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF INGLISIA.
Coccine forms (of Fernald Catalogue) covered, in the older stages
at least, by a glassy, vertically striated test or shell, conical in the
type; body of adult female delicate, convex above, short and the
margin angular, anal cleft very short, antennae indistinctly 7-seg-
mented, legs normal, mentum 1-segmented, marginal spines of two
sorts, tapering and slender, and stout clavate, alternating, spiracu-
lar spines not differentiated, dorsal and ventral setae present, mostly
very few and scattered, with only long tubular ducts and small
quinquelocular disk pores (ventral), anal plates small, triangular,
with several stout setae along inner margin of each, anal ring with
pores and six setae; larva elongate oval, antennae 6-segmented, legs
normal, body margin with continuous series of closely set clavate
spines, spiracular spines not differentiated, anal plates slender, ta-
pering, with long apical seta and several others, anal ring with
pores and six setae.
Some of the structural characters of this genus suggest a relation-
ship to the subfamily Asterolecaninae, notably the dorsal cribriform
plates, the peculiarly shaped anal plates, and the glassy external
covering, but other characters do not bear out this suggested rela-
