78 PROCEEDIlNi GS OF THE NATIOISrAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
tionship, so the o:enus aj^pears actually to be rather anomalous among
the Coccinae and may stand alone as a distinct tribe when the generic
classification of this subfamily is reorganized.
Genus PARALECANIUM Cockerell.
Plate 4, fig. 5.
Genotype. — Lecanium frenchii Maskell.
Reference. — Fernald, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 199.
The type of this genus was specifically designated as being Le-
canium frenchii Maskell at the time Professor Cockerell erected the
subgenus Paraleccmium^ which he later raised to generic standing.
The Maskell collection includes three slides of the type species, one
of " adult female, Aug. 1890," one of " antenna of female, Aug., 1890,"
and one of " 2nd stage female, Aug., 1890," besides which there are a
few unmounted specimens under No. 131.
Adult female.- — Flat, broad oval, dorsal derm heavily chitinized,
dark brown; derm clearing only a little when boiled in potassium
hydroxide; body with clear radial lines extending part way in to-
ward the center all the way aromid the margin, these continued as
large areolations in the middorsal region ; antennae small, slender,
8-segmented; legs small, slender, normal, claw apparently without
denticle, digitules slender, knobbed at apex; spiracles small, slender
in middle; mentum small, short, 1-segniented ; marginal flabella
small, faintly striate, triangular with rounded corners, not overlap-
ping; spiracular spines in threes, the middle one somewhat longer,
all slightly clavate; dorsal surface with an occasional small slender
hair, ventral surface with two pairs of relatively large setae anterior
to the anal ring, and with scattered minute setae; derm with occa-
sional clear pores through the chitin dorsally, probably representing
the openings of tubular ducts, although details of such can not be
made out, ventrally with a row of tiny quinquelocular pores between
each spiracle and its marginal spines, similar pores in all probability
present in the ventral anal region, although here again they are not
observable; anal plates elongate, triangular, posterio-lateral margin
somewhat longer than anterio-lateral ; anal plate setae very few, only
a single submedian one observed dorsally, apparently without apical
setae, and with only a single fringe seta ventrally, these very small,
and possibly with a few more present; anal ring small, stout, nor-
mally placed anterior to the plates, with pores and six long setae.
Intermediate stages. — None available for examination. (Maskell's
2nd stage female apparently a late first stage larva.)
Larva. — (Maskell's 2nd stage female.) Only one specimen badly
attacked by fungus, so that nearly all the characters are obscured,
those visible shown in figure.
Cotype.—QQ,t. No. 24772, U. S. N. M.
