30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
Host. — Salix^ species.
Seasonal History. — Larvae collected July 27, cocooned August 5,
transformed to pupae August 21, emerging as adults August 24.
PRIOPHORUS SOLITARIS (Dyar).
Cladius solitaris Dyab, Can. Ent., vol. 27, 1895, p. 192 and p. 340.
Priophorus solitaris Dyar, Dyar, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol 8, 1900, p. 28. —
MacGillivray, Bull. 22, Conn. Geol. Nat. Hist. Survey, 1916 (1917),
p. 110.
Type.— Cat No. 4l29, U.S.N.M.
Female. — Length, 5 mm. Clypeus flat, anterior margin sub-
squarely emarginate, the lobes triangular, obtusely rounded; supra-
clypeal foveae deep, punctiform ; middle fovea broad, shallow ; ocel-
lar basin obsolete laterally, the lower wall rounded, faintly broken ;
antennal furrows obsolete below the ocelli; postocellar area flat,
sharply defined laterally with a faint longitudinal line medianly;
postocellar furrow feebly defined; antennae broken but apparently
long, slender; first intercubitus obsolete; second and third cubital
cells subequal on the radius; stigma long, narrow, broader at base,
gradually tapering to the apex; radiellan cell with a very short
appendage; sheath straight above, gradually rounded to the broad
base. Black; trochanters, four anterior tibiae and tarsi, the posterior
tibiae except apices and the posterior tarsi except the apices of the
joints, white; wings uniformly subhyaline, venation pale brown.
Redescribed from the unique type.
The following description is arranged from Dyar:
Larva. — Solitary feeder, eating the parenchyma of the leaf from
the underside.
Stage III. — Head round; shining black pilose, width, 0.5 mm.;
thorax a little enlarged, thoracic feet faintly yellowish tinged; ab-
dominal feet slightly spreading, segments distinct, rather faintly
three annulate;^' annulet first small, second and third with many
pale setae, so that the larva is pilose or hairy; color, translucent
whitish, with no yellow tint; the food gives a dark green broad line
by transparency, as far as joint twelve, in join thirteen the fasces
show black.
Stage IV. — Head pale whitish, with a black shade at side and
vertex; width .8 mm.; body whitish, with a faint greenish tinge,
densely hairy; the tubercles slight; alimentary canal gives a dark
shade.
Stage V. — Head greenish, thickly dotted with brown; a confluent
black patch on clypeus, over eye and above and behind it ; or a patch
*» Doubtless 4 annulate with A, B, and C visible and liaired while D is hidden — annulef
first probably A, second and third probably B and C.
