80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL. MUSEUM. vol.60.
size, covered by a thin film of transparent wax, usually with margin
indented at anal cleft and opposite spiracles, the cleft short, derm
heavily chitinized at maturity, usually some shade of brown, at
least after death, derm usually with large quadrate or polygonal
depressed areas in rows in the middorsal area, with numerous
large faint areolations in groups or clusters, with the dorsum
more or less distinctly divided up into plates by clear lines,
with a ventral marginal chitinous zone of varying width; an-
tennae present, well developed or more or less reduced; legs pres-
ent, reduced or wanting ; spiracles not unusual ; mentum short, stout,
1-segmented; marginal spines enlarged into broad, flattened flabella
of varying shapes; spiracular spines present, set in incisions with
from three to many to a group, stout, not tapering to apex, tips
rounded ; dorsal setae, if present, few, scattered, minute ; ventral setae,
if present, similar with pairs of larger setae anterior to the anal
plates; dorsal specialized derm pores, if present, probably confined to
a few long tubular ducts, ventrally with multilocular disk pores of
two sizes, the larger below the anal plates, the smaller between spira-
cles and margin ; anal plates small, triangular, the sides straight and
the corners usually sharp, with a varying number of both dorsal and
ventral setae, these all very small ; minute fringe setae present, hypo-
pygial setae wanting; anal ring small, placed anterior to the anal
plates, with pores and six long setae; larva oval, antennae 6-seg-
mented ; legs normal, marginal setae slender, individual setae widely
separated; spiracular spines one to three set on a chitinized incision
of the body margin ; anal plates long, slender, with long apical seta.
The salient characters of the genus lie in the curious marginal
flabellae, and these, together with the characters already described,
make its members readily recognizable. The genus Platylecaniurti
Cockerell is the nearest relative of Paralecanium known to the
writers, having the same characteristic external appearance, but the
marginal spines slender, seta-like, and not expanded into flabellae.
Genus CRYPTES Cockerell and Parrott.
Plate 5, fig. 1.
Genotype. — Lecanium haccatum Maskell.
Reference.— F&Tiv2iU, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 209.
This genus, which is credited to " Crawford " in the Fernald Cata-
logue, is a parallel case to that of EHum in so far as the proper as-
signment of an author name is concerned. Crawford merely used the
name as a specimen label in his collection; Maskell simply records
the fact that Crawford did this, and goes further, in describing the
species as a Lecanium., and shows his own conviction that the new
generic name used by Crawford is not necessary. The first definite
