ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCGIDAE MORKISON. 83
Besides the type species, a variet}^ has been described by Fuller,
but the writers are able to contribute nothing regarding the latter.
The following generic diagnosis has been based to the description
of the type species.
GENEIUC DIAGNOSIS OF cnYX'TES.
Coccine forms (of the Fernald Catalogue), adult female naked,
globular, with anal cleft completely fused, antennae 8-segmented,
legs, spiracles and mentum normal, the latter 1-segmented, marginal
setae small, tapering, irregularly arranged, spiracular spines very
short, stout, and blunt, not more than two opposite any spiracle,
dorsal body setae few and scattered, derm pores confined to long
tubular ducts and multilocular disk pores of two sizes, anal plates
half oval with large dorsal, subapical and apical and ventral ridge
setae, no fringe setae, no hypopygial setae, anal ring located below
and v.'ithin anal plates, small, oval, with numerous (about IG) setae;
larva elongate, antennae 6-segmented, legs, mentum and spiracles
normal, marginal setae large, blunt- tipped, curved or bent back-
wards, spiracular spines stout, very short, blunt-tipped, two oppo-
site anterior, normall}'^ one opposite posterior spiracles, anal plates
with very long apical setae and large dorsal, subapical and ventral
ridge setae, no hypopygial setae, anal ring with six setae.
The form of the male pupa case and the structural characters of
the female and larva as given above are quite sufficient to isolate this
species generically, and the male pupa case, as described and figured
by Maskell and commented on by Cockerell, at least indicates the
possibility that G. haccatus digresses widely from the normal Coccine
type. To the best of the writer's belief, Kermes acaciae Maskell
represents a mixture of this species and of some species of EHococcus^
the immature stages, as described by Maskell being of the larva and
adult of the Eriococcus^ while the adult of Maskell is the adult of
Cryptes haccatus. In view of the known host habits of Kermes.^ this
is a logical expectation, and the writers propose the synonomy indi-
cated, subject to future revision.
Genus ALECANOPSIS Cockerell.
Plate 5, fig. 2.
Genotype. — Lecanopsis filicum Maskell.
Reference.— Fernald, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 211.
This genus lias never included more than the single, type species.
The Maskell collection of Coccidae contains a single unmounted
specimen bearing the No. 300, and two slides, one of " adult female,
1893," and one of " antennae of female, 1893." The United States
