84
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
VOL. 60.
Bureau of Entomology collection possesses a few specimens taken
from the roots of grass, Yorke Peninsula, South Australia, collected
by A. Koebele, which from a careful comparison with Maskell's speci-
mens appear to be the same species, and owing to the unsatisfactory
condition of Maskell's mounts, some of the description and the figures
given below have necessarily been taken from the South Australian
specimens.
Adult female. — Body strongly convex, wrinkled, dark reddish
brown, etc., as described by Maskell; derm clearing after treatment
with potassium hydroxide; antennae small and short, 6-segmented;
legs much reduced, semi-rudimentary, the joints very indistinct, the
claw stout and short, both pairs of digitules present, slender,
knobbed; spiracles large, stout and heavily chitinized, considerably
more developed than in the normal coccine forms; mentum very
Fig. 28. — Alecanopsis filicum (Ma.skbi.l) , adult female. A. spiracular disk poke,
X 1500 ; B. anal plates, X i65 ; C. lfx5, X 220 ; D. antenna, X 220 ; E. derm pore above
ANAL PIRATES, X 1500 ; F. VENTRAL ABDOMINAL MDLTILOCnLAR DISK PORES, X 1500 ; G.
SPIRACDLAR SPINE AND ADJACENT PORES, X 165 ; H. SMAI-L TUBULAR DUCTS, X 1500 ; I.
DERM SETA, X 500 ; J. LARGE TUBULAR DUCT, X 1500.
short and broad, small, 1-segmented ; derm with tubular ducts, large!
and small, scattered rather uniformly throughout, and ventrally with
multilocular disk pores, all of approximately one size, normally with
about seven loculi, but variable, as shown in figure, in transverse
rows anterior to the anal plates, with pores of similar size, but
normally quinquelocular, in rather heavy bands between the spiracles]
and the margin, dorsally anterior to the anal plates with some cir-
cular indistinctly trilocular disk pores ; marginal setae stiff, tapering,
entire, rather long, scattered and not in a single row in one plane!
and sometimes two deep, not continuous clear up to the spiracular
spines; the latter short, stout, somewhat clavate, with one, or rarelyJ
