AET. Ii2. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 85
two, opposite each spiracle, placed in the midst of a group of disk
pores; dorsal derm with an occasional small stiff seta, these much
more numerous and larger in the area around the anal plates, ventral
derm with an occasional large stiff seta anteriorly, and a number of
the same in transverse rows, one to each abdominal segment, pos-
teriorly; anal plates stout triangular, the anterio-lateral margin
longer than the posterio-lateral, the apices rounded, bearing three or
four subapical and apical setae dorsally, and about five to seven
larger ventral setae, mostly subapical, but probably continuous with
a row of fringe setae which was not observable in the Maskell mount
on account of its condition ; no hypopygial setae noted ; anal ring
relatively large, not very heavy, with a double row of pores and
numerous (perhaps as many as 24) rather long, stout setae.
Immature stages. — None available for examination.
The following generic diagnosis has been based wholly on the
preceding description.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF ALECANOPSIS.
Coccine forms of the Fernald catalogue, having a subterranean
habit; adult female strongly convex, wrinkled, derm not heavily
chitinized, antennae reduced, 6-segmented, legs much reduced, joints
indistinct, mentum very short, 1-segmented, spiracles considerably
larger than normal, and more heavily chitinized, derm pores includ-
ing tubular ducts of two distinct sizes, somewhat variable multiloc-
ular disk pores, those opposite spiracles with five loculi, those ante-
rior to anal plates with seven, and dorsally with obscurely trilocular
disk pores anterior to anal plates, all derm setae slender, but stiff, the
marginal scattered, entire, not in continuous row, the spiracular
spines stout, clavate, one or two opposite each spiracle, dorsal setae
snjall, ventral larger, but still small, anal plates broad triangular,
with a few dorsal apical and subapical setae, a number of larger ven-
tral ridge setae, and some large fringe setae, anal ring rather slender,
with pores and very numerous (over 20) setae.
The writers have no specimens of Lecanopsis available for exami-
nation, and are therefore unable to make a critical comparison of it
with Alecanopsis. Professor Cockerell established the genus in 1901
on the very superficial characters of the shape of the body, the color,
and the reduction of the legs and antennae. This reduction, in con-
nection with the enlargement of the spiracles, the habit and the great
increase in the number of anal ring setae are probably quite sufficient
to separate this genus from all of the other genera now included in
the Coccinae of the Fernald catalogue.
