86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
Subfamily Diaspinae.
Genus POLIASPIS Maskell.
Plate 5, fig. 3.
Genotype. — Poliaspis media Maskell.
Reference.— Fevn^U, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, p. 243.
Maskell established this genus on the basis of the type species only,
although a number of additional species have been placed in it
subsequentl3\
The species is represented in the Maskell collection by a single
slide, presumably the type one, labeled " female, 2 stages from
Veronica, Jan. 1879." There is also some unmounted material in
the Maskell collection under No. 27, while the National Collection of
Coccidae also contains some material received from Maskell through
Cockerell, and supposed to be a portion of Maskell's type material.
Such slides as have been prepared from this last and from Maskell's
unmounted specimens appear to represent a different species from
that mounted by Maskell in 1879. The following specific descrip-
tion has therefore been confined to the material on the type slide,
and on account of its condition certain details of structure have
necessarily been omitted.
Adult ferndle. — Scale as described by Maskell: body elongate oval,
tapering somewhat posteriorly, membranous, except a portion of the
pygidium; antennae small, flattened tubercles with one or two long
spines; spiracles slender, each accompanied by a close group of
pores, the anterior with about 15-20, the posterior with about 12-15 ;
margin of head with a few small setae : margins of thorax and ab-
dominal segments with a few small setae and with short, small
tubular ducts and slender gland spines with broadly expanded bases,
these latter extending in from the margin ventrally; hind margin
of posterior abdominal segments with a definite row of tubular
ducts on each side and another similar row about midway between
center and margin, these dorsal; pygidium not especially large nor
prominent, not sharply separated from remainder of body, rounded
at apex, median lobes large, not contiguous, more or less protrud-
ing, strongly diverging, the margins rounded off and finely crenulate
in part, lobes joined by a heavy chitinized thickening, and with a
pair of sharp, converging setae between the lobes; inner lobule of
second lobes smaller, somewhat asymmetrical, the apex rounded, the
outer lobule broadly triangular, inconspicuous, the two lobules o^
the third lobes represented only by inconspicuous marginal projec-
tions; margin beyond lobes broken, but without distinct teeth or
crenulations ; gland spines relatively long and slender, one outside
each median lobe, one beyond the second lobes, one beyond the rudi-
