88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
short tubular, of moderate size, one opening just inside second lobe,
and with a short spinelike marginal projection opposite it, then
with two in a group, one inside, one anterior to the rudimentary
third lobes, and after an interval two more; dorsal pores placed in
definite closely set rows, inner with three to four, posterior group
of second roAv with about 6-8, anterior group with 5-6, third row
with about 7 in posterior group and 6-7 in the anterior; ventrally
with a number of micropores, the ducts of these rather short and
stout, the exact number and position of these not determinable from
Maskell's type slide ; with two widely separated, small, dorsal setae
on each side, these above and within the posterio-lateral parageni-
tals; ventrally with small submarginal setae opposite the marginal,
and with a pair of smaller setae within and opposite each space
between the anterio- and posterio-lateral paragenitals ; perhaps with
others anterior to these, but not definitel-f discernible in the material
examined; p^^gidium, while somewhat chitinized, without basal or
ventral thickenings; with faintly defined, long triangular, dorsal
thickenings running in from the posterior margin opposite the first
two pairs of lobes.
Intermediate stage female. — Essentially similar to the adult, dif-
fering principally in the absence of the paragenitals and in the re-
duced size and development of the pores, etc.
Larva. — (Of Poliaspis, species, but not included in the Maskell
slide mount ; included for the sake of the greatest possible complete-
ness.) Oval, antennae 5-segmented, the terminal not annulate; dor-
sally at apex with a pair of double, heavily chitinized, tubular ducts ;
legs normal; apex of abdomen with a pair of long apical setae be-
tween which are a pair of triangular projections, similar in shape to
gland spines, but apparently without internal ducts, and with two
small setae, outside of which are two well-developed but tiny lobes
and between these a relatively large gland spine, then outside the
second lobe another gland spine, followed by several much smaller
ones on the margin of the abdominal segments, a pair to each.
Eight species have been placed in this genus in addition to the
type. These appear to the writers to belong to at least three and
possibly four different groups. P. pini Maskell is quite obviously a
member of the Lepidosaphes series. P. canssae Cockerell appears
to have its relationships with the group represented by Dinaspis
Leonardi. The status of P. exocarpi Maskell, P. 7iitens Fuller, and
P. intermedia Fuller is more doubtful, but the writers at present
consider their inclusion in this genus as open to question. It is not
possible to comment definitely on P. casuarinae Lidgett. So far as
may be determined from available material and descriptions, P.
argentosis Brittain, P. cycadis Comstock, and P. kiggelariae Brain
may be properlv included with P. media Maskell. In examining
