ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 89
these species, no attention has been given to the question of possible
specific synonomy.
The following generic diagnosis has been based largely on the
specific description preceding.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF P0LIASPI3.
Diaspine forms, probably belonging in the generic group contain-
ing Aulacaspis fentagona (Targioni) ; scale of male elongate, Chi-
onaspis-like, but without carinae ; scale of female elongate pyrif orm,
exuviae terminal; body of adult female membranous, elongate oval,
antennae tiny tubercles, spiracles normal, all accompanied by a
closely set cluster of pores, margins of thoracic and abdominal seg-
ments with small short tubular ducts, gland spines and tiny setae,
pygidium rounded, median lobes large, more or less protruding, not
contiguous, with an intermediate pair of setae, second and third lobes
more or less developed, divided into two lobules where distinct, gland
spines present, the posterior ones arranged singly, marginal setae
normal, without incisions or chitinous thickenings, anal opening
moderate, circular, nearer base than apex of pygidium, paragenitals
present, in eight groups, marginal pores present, axis longitudinal,
inner single, remainder in pairs, dorsal pores in distinct linear rows,
split into two groups, axis longitudinal, pygidium with some indis-
tinct thickenings running cephalad from margin, with ventral mi-
cropores and both dorsal and ventral setae; intermediate female in
general similar to adult, but without paragenitals and less developed ;
young larva oval, with 5-segmented antennae, a pair of large cephalic
tubular ducts, apex of abdomen with long setae, two pairs of lobes
and gland spines.
Genus PHAULASPIS Leonardi.
Plate 5, fig. 4.
Genotype. — Asjndiotus haJceae Maskell.
Reference.— F^viidildi, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, pp. 251, 260.
Leonardi first established the genus Phaulaspis in 1897, designat-
ing haheae as the type. Later, in 1900, he substituted Cryptaonidia^
with the same type, for Phaulaspis^ but without an explanation of
his action. There appears to be no question but that the first name
has precedence over the later one.
The Maskell collection contains eight slides of this species, two
of " adult female, 1895," one of " male, 1895," one of " male pupa,
1895," one of "larva, 1895," one of "1st pellicle 2, 1895," one of
" 2nd pellicle $ , 1895," and one of " pellicles 2 1895." There is also
some unmounted material under No. 483,
3136— 22— Proc.N.M. Vol.60 34
