AET. 1. NORTH AMERICAN SAWFLIES ROHWER. 31
at vertex and another on side covering the eye and reaching to the
back of head; head shining, pilose; mouth brown, widfh 1 mm.;
dorsal region of body olivaceous blackish; joint second anteriorly"
subventral region,^'' venter, feet, and joint thirteen" posteriorly
translucent whitish, not shiny; body pilose, the hairs arising from
thickly placed pale tubercles on each of the three annulets; hairs
rather short and pale.
Cocoon. — Double, made of white or brownish silk, large and re-
sembling thin paper.
Host. — Alnus, species.
PRIOPHORUS MONTANUS Rohwer, new species.
Closely allied to soUtaris (Dyar), but is somewhat larger and more
robust and the middle fovea is practically obsolete.
Female. — Length, 5.5 mm. ; length of antenna about 3.75 mm.
Clypeus rather distinctly convex medianly, the apical margin broadly
acruately emarginate, not depressed; suprarcylpeal foveae large,
deep ; middle fovea very shallow and indistinctly defined, practically
obsolete, not breaking through the crest; ocellar basin obsolete
dorsally, the lower wall very poorly defined, rounded; a very
small U-shaped depression in front of the anterior ocellus ; antennal
furrows obsolete ; postocellar area without a pit in the anterior mid-
dle, distinctly limited laterally by the nearly complete vertical fur-
rows; postocellar furrow wanting; postocellar line distinctly longer
than the ocellocular line, but not quite twice as long as the ocelloc-
cipital line; antenna rather long, slender, distinctly tapering api-
cally, the third and fourth joints subequal in length; stigma rather
large, angled near base then rapidly tapering to apex, about two and
one-third times as long as greatest width; first intercubitus obso-
lescent ; first abscissa of radius longer than the second and subequal
in length with the third ; second abscissa of radius not quite twice as
long as the third intercubitus ; radiellan cell closed and with a short
appendage; recurrentella distinctly antef ureal; sheath broad,
rounded apically. Black; tegulae brownish; apical joints of palpi,
tibiae and tarsi except the infuscate apical joints (posterior ones
more broadly) and hind trochanters, yellowish; wings uniformly
dusky hyaline ; venation brown, except the costa and base of cubitus
which are pale brown.
Type locality. — Belgrade, Montana.
Described from three females (one type) collected July 14, 1909,
and sent in under number 228 by an unknown collector.
Type.— C2.i. No. 23558, U.S.N.M.
" Mesothorax.
" Eplpleural, pleural, and hypopleural regions.
" Urlte nine.
3136— 22— Proc.N.M.Vol.60 4
