ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 93
all stages. No other species deserving inclusion here are known to
the writers.
Genus CHENTRASPIS Leonardi.
Genotype. — Aspidiotus unilobis Maskell,
Reference.— Fernald, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, pp. 251, 280.
This is another genus which was established with only a single in-
cluded species, so that only it can be the type.
The Maskell collection contains a single slide of this species, labeled
" adult female, 1894," and a small amount of material under No. 419.
Adult female. — Scale as described by Maskell and Leonardi; body
nearly circular, the posterior apex slightly protruding and pointed;
derm anterior to pygidium wholly membranous, the thoracic and ab-
dominal segmentation indistinct ; antennae tiny tubercles, each bear-
ing a long stout seta ; spiracles small, without pores ; margins of head,
thoracic and abdominal segments, both dorsally and ventrally with
little groups of two or more relatively long slender setae and, usually,
one or more tiny tubular ducts; posterior abdominal segments with
a longitudinal row of tiny setae and a row of large tubular ducts on
each half dorsally, ventrally at margin with a number of small
tubular ducts on each side, with more of these in submarginal areas
and with two more or less distinct longitudinal rows of tiny setae;
anterior portion of pygidium hyaline, central portion more or less
chitinized; median lobes only present, these fused to form one lobe,
with a faint median notch, and usually two lateral notches; second
and third lobes represented by tiny spine-like triangles; no lateral
teeth or crenulations, but the margin outside of the plates somewhat
irregular ; plates present, strongly branched, two outside the median
lobes, then the tiny second lobe, then three more plates, then the tiny
third lobe, and one to four more plates, the last two, in the latter
case, simple; with three or four very short incisions in the margin,
these with more or less thickened bottoms and edges ; marginal setae
relatively very large, as long or somewhat longer than the plates,
the median pair quite stout, but becoming gradually more slender
toward the outer margin of the pygidium, dorsally with one just
outside the base of the median lobes, one above the tiny second lobes,
one above the third lobes, one well beyond the last group of plates,
and one well beyond this ; ventrally with one opposite each of these
except the first; without marginal chitinous paraphyses; anal open-
ing oval, medium in size, placed fairly close to the apex of the
pygidium ; paragenitals wanting ; dorsal marginal pores two between
first and second dorsal spines; two, separated, between second and
third spines; two, well separated, between third and fourth spines;
two, widely separated, between fourth and fifth spines ; dorsal pores
all near margin, about six in num.ber; ventrally with a number of
