ART. 12. MASKELL GENERA OF COCCIDAE MORRISON. 95
submai'ginal micropores, two between two ventral spines, 3-5 between
the second and third ventral spines, and about four or five between
the third and fourth ventral spines; without setae dorsally; with a
submarginal row of four small ventral setae and with about five more
on each half of the anterior median portion of the pygidium ; with
three transverse linear basal thickenings, one median, and with one
long, somewhat indistinct thickening running from the median plates
out and back past these transverse thickenings.
Inteiinediate stage female. — Body differing from that of adult
only in the smaller size and in the reduced numerical development
of the pores and setae.
Larva. — Broad oval, somewhat more pointed behind; antennae
slender, 5-segmented, terminal annulate; legs slender, normal, spi-
racles small, slender, without pores, pygidium more or less developed,
margin with a median quadrate protuberance bearing two tiny setae,
outside this with an incision with a tubular duct, then with the
median lobe, the outer margin curved and crenulate, then a seta, fol-
lowed by an incision with pore, and beyond this a succession of setae
and pores ; ventrally below the first incision with the long apical seta
about a third the body length ; anal opening medium, oval, near apex
of abdomen.
Cot7jpe.—C2.t. No. 24775, U.S.N.M.
Besides the type, one other species, Aspidiotus extensus Maskell,
was subsequently included in the genus by Leonardi. This species
certainly can not be looked upon as being congeneric with the type.
The generic diagnosis which follows has been based on the type
species only.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF CHENTRASPIS.
Diaspine forms, probably more closely related to the group con-
taining Aspidiotus camelliae Signoret {rapax Comstock) than to
any other; adult female with body nearly circular, derm mem-
branous, antennae tiny with a single long seta, spiracles small, with-
out pores, margin of body with some setae and small tubular ducts
in clusters, pygidium somewhat chitinized, median lobes only well
developed, protruding, fused into a single lobe, marginal plates
present, grouped near the middle line, strongly branched, both dorsal
and ventral marginal setae present, relatively large and long, with
marginal incisions with thickened edges, no paraphyses, anal open-
ing medium in size, placed near the apex of pygidium, paragenitals
wanting, dorsal marginal pores present, some opening in incisions,
dorsal pores present, few in number, tubes short, axis transverse,
with ventral micropores with short tubes and with tiny ventral setae,
with basal thickenings; intermediate stage female similar to adult,
differing only in smaller size and numerical reduction of ducts and
