96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
setae; larva oval, antennae 5-segmented, terminal annulate, legs
slender, normal, margin of body with a few ducts and setae, pygi-
dium somewhat developed, anal ring near apex, median lobes only
developed, separated by a rectangular projection bearing setae, apical
setae long, no traces of plates, but with incisions and marginal ducts
and setae.
This genus was placed as a synonym of Aspidiotus in the Fernald
catalogue, and its identity with Targionia has been suggested. As
already noted, the type species seems, except for the question of the
size and the position of the anal opening and the fused median lobes,
to resemble A. camelliae Signoret {rapax Comstock) quite closely.
The writers prefer not to comment on the question of the zoological
validity of this genus at present.
Genus AONIDIELLA Berlese and Leonardi.
Genotype. — Aspidiotus aurantii Maskell.
Beference.—FeTiiiild, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, pp. 285, 287-8.
This genus was established for the single type species. The
Maskell collection contains two slides marked as collected in 1877,
and therefore presumably the type slides. This species has been
shown to be extremely widespread and common, and has been de-
scribed and illustrated with elaborate detail by Berlese,^^ because of
which no attempt is made here to redescribe or figure it. The
writers are not able to comment definitely on its generic validity,
and have in consequence done nothing more than record its right to
a place in the series of genera discussed in this paper.
The four following units have been variously designated by
Leonardi, who described them, as genera or subgenera of the genus
Lepidosaphes {Mytilaspis) . While their standing is in most cases
uncertain, they have been placed as genera in this paper.
Genus PHAULOMYTILUS Leonardi.
Plate 5, fig. 5.
Genotype. — Mytilaspis striata Maskell.
/fe/erence5.— Fernald, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, pp. 304, 314.—
Leonardi, Ann. E. Sc. sup. agr. Portici, ser. 2, vol. 5, 1904, p. 5.
This genus has never included more than the single type species.
The Maskell collection contains a single slide of "adult female,
1894" and a small quantity of unmounted material of this species,
the latter bearing the No. 409.
Adult female. — Scale as described by Maskell and Leonardi ; body
elongate, broadest behind the middle, sides of cephalothorax tapering
strongly anteriorly, this apex rounded; cephalothorax in fully ma-
'"Riv. Path. Veg., vol. 4, 1895, pp. 125-137.
