ABT. liJ. MASKELL GENERA OF COCO [DAE MOKKISON. 99
two ver}^ small, close together between these, one larger on each side
near and below the base of the large apical seta, and two more, small,
above each apical seta; each margin of each of at least the abdominal
segments with three small setae, one above the other, of which the
median is the longest, anal ring small, circular, somewhat invagi-
nated, placed near the apex of the abdomen ; body with dorsal and
Tentral rows of small setae, one on each half, as shown.
Cotype.—Q^t. No. 24776, U.S.N.M.
The following generic diagnosis has been based on the preceding
description.
GENERIC DIAGNOSIS OF PHAULOMYTILTJS.
Diaspine forms of uncertain affinities, superficially resembling
Lefldosofplies ; the secreted covering mytilaspiform, adult female
with elongate body, somewhat chitinized cephalothorax, very small
antennae with three setae, spiracles with or without pores, these never
numerous, abdominal segments with groups of tubular ducts and
short slender gland spines with greatly enlarged bases at margins,
pygidium with small triangular widely separated more or less pro-
jecting lobes, witliout gland spines or plates, marginal setae present,
approximately normal in arrangement, without incisions with thick-
ened edges, with slight incisions for marginal pores, without chiti-
nized paraphyses, anal ojDening oval, placed much nearer base than
apex of pygidium, paragenitals wanting, marginal ducts present,
large, axis longitudinal or approximately so, dorsal pores present,
fairly numerous, axis not uniform but approximately longitudinal,
pores not arranged in definite and conspicuous rows, without internal
pygidial thickenings except from base of lobes, with some ventral
microijores and surface setae ; intermediate stage similar to adult
but less developed; larva oval, antennae 5-segmented, terminal not
annulate, legs normal, apex of abdomen not chitinized, without traces
of lobes or gland spi.-cs. vvith a pair of long apical setae and other
small setae, anal ring small, circular, near apex of abdomen.
As may be not«d from the preceding description, the writers con-
sider that Leonardi's interpretation of the triangular projecting
marginal structures is incorrect and that they are really poorly de-
veloped pygidial lobes, instead of gland spines. There is no evidence
that they are connected with internal ducts, as are the true gland
spines. The morphological modifications of the type species appear
to be quite sufficient to separate the genus widely from LepidosafJies^
as represented by the type, L. ulmi (Linnaeus) and to establish it as
a unit of full generic rank. The writers are not able to say whether
or not the genus thus established is identical with any other described
