100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. tol. 60.
genus, or whether it should remain in the group of species of which
Lepidosa'phes is typical.
Genus COCCOMYTILUS Leonardi.
Plate 6, fig. 1.
Genotype — MytUaspis convexa Maskell.
References.— YQviiHildi, Cat. Cocc. World, 1903, pp. 304, 307.— Leon-
ardi, Ann. R. Sc. sup. agr. Portici, ser. 2, vol. 5, 1904, p. 4, 9.
Leonardi apparently failed to designate a type species for this
genus, and it seems to have -first been set in the Femald catalogue.
The Maskell collection contains a single slide of " adult female,
1892" and a small quantity of uinnounted material of this species,
the latter under No. 347.
Adult female. — Scale as described by Maskell and Leonardi ; body
elongate, broadest about the middle, narrowed anteriorly; cephalo-
thorax and anterior abdominal segments in fully matured individuals
hardened, chitinized, and brittle, remainder of abdomen, except
portions of the pygidiiim, membranous; antennae small tubercles
bearing two setae of unequal length and some conical protuberances ;
spiracles small, anterior with 3-5 pores, posterior with 2-3 pores;
head with some pairs of small setae around margin; margins of
thoracic and abdominal segments with clusters of numerous tubular
ducts, some ventral, some dorsal ; with a cluster of conical gland
spines with somewhat enlarged bases ventrally posterior to each
spiracle ; with similar gland spines ventrally on the second and third
abdominal segments near margin; with a few marginal setae and
straight, tapering gland spines on remaining segments; pygidium
somewhat chitinized, the margin uniformly curved, with three pairs
of lobes, all protruding, the median large, prominent, the apical
border rounded and more or less distinctly notched at each side, sec-
ond lobes about half as long and wide, the posterior margin nearly
straight, somewhate crenulate, third lobes well beyond second, ob-
tusely triangular, the outer face longest, margin beyond this irregu-
larly toothed and incised developing projections resembling the
third pair of lobes but not chitinized ; gland spines present, two
betw^een median lobes, two between these and second lobes, first two,
then one, between second and third lobes, two outside of third lobes
and two more beyond two toothlike projections of the margin, all
small but gradually enlarging from the median out; marginal setae
present, dorsally one inside, one outside each median lobe, one out-
side each second and third lobe, one beyond marginal projection,
ventrally one outside each median lobe, and one below and beyond
each of the remaining dorsal setae, these all fairly large ; no incisions
with thickened edges; no chitinous paraphyses; anal opening rather
small, approximately circular, placed near the base of the pygidium ;
