32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, vol. 00.
PRIOPHORUS RUBI Rohwer, new species.
Female.— Liength. 6 mm.; length of the antenna 4 mm. Clypeiis
flat, shining, slightly convex in the basal middle, anterior margin
rather deeply arcuately emarginate; lobes triangular in outline,
rather sharply pointed; supraclypeal foveae deep, punctiform; mid-
dle fovea shallow, circular in outline ; ocellar basin entirely wanting ;
antennal furrows nearly complete; a small wedge-shaped depression
in front of the anterior ocellus; postocellar line subequal with the
ocellocular line, and but little shorter than the ocelloccipital line:
postocellar area convex, sharply defined laterall3% with a small fovea
in the anterior middle; postocellar furrow wanting; antenna rather
short, sharply tapering; the third joint distinctly longer than the
fourth; the apical joint somewhat longer than the preceding; stigma
short, rounded below, its greatest width at about the middle; first
intercubitus obsolescent; second cubital cell on the radius subequal
with the third; radiellan cell with distinct appendage; sheath
straight above, obtuse at apex, tapering from the broad base. Black;
anterior tibiae and tarsi, the posterior tibiae and most of the pos-
terior tarsi white ; posterior margin of the tegulae whitish ; wings
hyaline, iridescent, venation dark brown.
Type locality. — Northeast, Pennsylvania.
Described from one adult which was reared from a larva collected
on Blackberry. This larva formed a cocoon on June 11, was a
pupa on June 16 and an adult on the 23 and emerged on the 24.
Material collected and reared by R. A. Cushman.
Type.— Cut. No. 21594, U.S.N.M.
Another female of this species was collected at Hamburg, New
York, June 14, 1911, by M. C. Van Duzee.
PRIOPHORUS PRUNI Rohwer, new species.
Figures 15, 22, 32, 33, 48, 55, 61, 73.
Female. — Length 5 mm.; length of the antenna 4 mm. Clypeus
gently convex, shining, not prominent in the basal middle; the
anterior margin broadly, shallowly, arcuately emarginate; the lobes
short and obtuse, apically; supraclypeal foveae punctiform, middle
fovea elongate, deep, Avith sloping walls, not breaking through the
frontal crest; lower wall of ocellar basin defined, the lateral walls
are obsolete ; antennal furrows wanting below the ocelli ; postocellar
area flat, sharply defined laterally, with an elongate fovea in the
anterior middle; postocellar furrow wanting; postocellar line
slightly shorter than the ocellocular line; antenna short, the third
and fourth joints subequal, the apical joint subequal with the pre-
ceding (see figs. 15 and 33) ; stigma short, broadest at base, gradually
tapering to the apex ; first intercubitus obsolescent ; second cubital on
