ON A NEW SILUEID FISH FROM THE YALU RIVER,
SOUTH MANCHURIA.
By Arthur de Carle Sowerby.
While on a collecting- tour on the Yalii River, South Manchuria,
in the early summer of 1915, the writer secured a specimen of a
peculiar catfish related to Pseudohagrus tenuis from the Yangtze
Kiang, China, which was described by Guenther.^
The specimen was sent to the United States National Museum,
where, recently, Mr. B. A. Bean, of that institution, and the writer
have examined it. coming to the conclusion that it represents a
hitherto undescribed form, which may be named —
PSEUDOHAGRUS EMARGINATUS, new species.
D. I, T ; A. 21 ; P. I, 7 ; V. 6 ; C 20.
Body very elongate, cylindrical anteriorly, compressed poster-
iorly. Total length, excluding caudal, 16^ inches. Greatest depth
into length (excluding caudal) 8f, Smooth. Head depressed, wide,
longer than wide and wider than deep. Length of head 6 times into
length of body (excluding caudal). Snout bluntly pointed. Mouth
inferior, rather small. Four pairs of barbels, two on maxilla, two
on snout, of medium length, but apparently longer than in P.
tenuhi ; posterior maxillary barbels half length of head, lower
snout barbels somewhat longer. Eye small, 8| into length of head.
Dorsal fin with stout anterior spine. The anterior spine of the
pectoral also stout, and strongly serrate on the inner margin.
Dorsal adipose fin very long. Caudal broad, deeply cleft, in which
character it differs markedly from that of P. tenuis^ which is de-
scribed as entire. Other fins as in P. tenuis.
There is a peculiar short, stout, and pointed anal papilla present.
The lateral line is pronounced.
Color. — General olive yellow in life, changing to dusky olive
when the fish is in deep water.
Type.— C2it. No. 76716, U. S. N. ^L: Orig. No. 222. Taken at the
mouth of the Hun Kiang, in the Yalu River, on the South Man-
K'hurian border.
> Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 4, vol. 13, 1873, p. 244.
No. 2408— Proceedings U. S. National Museum, Vol. 60, Art. 13.
3136— 22— Proe.N.M.Vol.60 36 1
