THE JADE OF THE TUXTLA STATUETTE.
By Henry S. Washington,
0/ the Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington.
Introduction. — One of the most interesting of the small objects that
have come down to us from the ancient Maya civilization is the so-
called Tuxtla ^ statuette, which has been described by W. H. Holmes.^
This object was ploughed up in 1902 " in the district of San Andres
de Tuxtla on the Gulf coast of Mexico, about 100 miles southwest of
Vera Cruz," and was later acquired by the United States National
Museum (No. 222,579).
The statuette is of special importance because, according to
Morley,^ it is the oldest known dated object in American art. The
date assigned by Morley to the statuette, from study of the central
front row of glyphs, and assuming the contemporaneity of the in-
scription and the statuette, is 8. 6. 2. 17. 8 Caban Kankin, in
Mayan chronology, which corresponds to 96 B. C, according to
Morley's recently published correlation of the Mayan and Christian
chronologies.* It thus antedates the coming of Columbus by about
sixteen hundred years.
The material of which the statuette is composed is obviously a
"jade." It was examined years ago by Wirt Tassin, then an assist-
ant curator in the United States National Museum, who reported it
as nephrite, by which name both Holmes and Morley speak of the
material. There appears to be no report extant of the results of
Tassin's examination, nor record of any analysis by him. The pres-
ent study, by optical and chemical methods, shows that the material
is not nephrite but a variety of jadeite.^
> Pronounced TushUa. In Maya x represents sh.
> \V. H. Holmes, Araer. Anthr., vol. 9, p. 691, 1907, See S. G. Morley, Carnegie Publication No. 219i
p. 402, 1920.
« S. G. Morloy, Bur. Amer. Ethnol., Bull. 57, p. 196, 1915.
< S. G. Morley, The Inscriptions at Copan, Carnegie Publication No. 219, pp. 4G.3-555, 1920.
» As is well known, the tenn "jade " is used for two dififerent minerals, both of which have much the
same properties so far as their employment in glyptic art is concerned ; namely, nephrite, a lime-magnesia
amphibole, and ;a(2ei7«, a soda-alumina pyroxine, both silicates. Typical jadeite is purely sodic, but it
often contains other isomorphous constituents giving rise to varieties. We shall di?tinguish here betwee
ioda jadeite and the mixture diopside jadeite, the latter containing lime and magnesia in addition to soda.
No. 2409.— Proceedings U. S. National Museum, Vol. 60, Art. 14.
1
