2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE XATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol.60.
Through the great kindness and courtesy of Dr. W. H. Holmes,
to whom I would express my sincere thanks, I was privileged to
examine the figure in the Geophysical Laboratory, and to remove
enough material for chemical and optical study. I have also to
thank Dr. S. G. Morley for his assistance and interest in the matter.
I would also express my thanks to Drs. H. E. Merwin and L. 11.
Adams, of the Geophysical Laboratory, the former of whom under-
took the optical examination, while the latter determined the
density. I am under obligations to Dr. Charles W. Richmond, of
the United States National Museum, for his identification of the
species of bird.
Description. — It is not necessary here to describe the statuette at
length, or even to discuss the glyphs and other archaeological
features. Photographs of it are given in plates 1 and 2, the glyphs .
having been rendered more clearly visible by rubbing with chalk.
The four excellent colored plates published by Holmes give a very
faithful rendering of the form and color, and even a suggestion of
the texture and luster of the statuette.
The rounded, conical image (flattened on the back) represents an
oldish man, bald-headed , with the beak of a duck-like bird masking
the lower part of the face, and mustache-like features connecting
with tne nostrils and folding down over the cheeks. If the carving
represents a god, he must have been a beneficent one, for there is a
merry twinkle in the eyes and a suspicion of a smile behind the
beak that are facial characteristics widely different from the usually
repellent features of gods as they are frequently depicted on the
Mayan monuments.
The rendering of the beak indicates a faculty for observation that,
perhaps, might scarcely be expected in an artist who is supposed to
have worked at about the dawn of the Mayan historic period. The
lamellirostral beak is anserine, but the feet are not webbed, and the
original is thus probably the boatbill, (CocMearius coclilearius) of
the coast of southern Mexico and Central America, or Coclilearius
seledoni, a Central American species. These are nocturnal, heron-
like birds living along water coves on the coast. The beak is
characteristic (more ducklike than that of the true herons). The
grooves along each edge, the central ridge, and the oblique elongate,
peculiarly shaped nostrils are all clearly and realistically shown.
The details of the eyes and nose of the man and of the beak and the
front edges of the wings of the bird are carved very sharply, in
contrast to the rest of the figure, especially at the back. The
statuette was apparent!}^ intended to be seen only from the front.
This may indicate a later date for the glyphs on the back than for
those on the front.
