PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
VOL. 60.
The percentage composition, in terms of mineral molecules, is given
below. This assumes that all the soda (and potash) go into a jadeite
molecule, that there may be present a so-called " babingtonite "
(FeO. (Fe,Al)203.4Si02) molecule, that the CaO, MgO, and FeO
(above that needed for babingtonite) form diopside, and that the
extra FcaOg is present in the pyroxene in solid solution, instead of
as the Tschermak molecule, the last assumption being in accordance
with the results of as yet unpublished studies by Merwin and me on
acmite-aegirite and other pyroxene minerals. The result is calcu-
lated to 100 per cent.
Molecular composition of Tuxtlajade.
Molecule.
.Jadeite (NaoO.AlA-^SiO,)
Babingtonite (FeO.Fe,03.4SiOo^
"Wollastonite (CaO.SiOz)
Enstatite (ilgO.SiOa)
Ferrosilite (FeO.SiOa)
Ferric oxide (FeoOg)
jjadeite, 49.34.
Dioppide, 50.efV
The Tuxtla jade is therefore composed of 49.34 per cent of sodic
jadeite (with a slight admixture of potasic jadeite and babingtonite
molecules), and 50.66 per cent of an almost purely magnesian diop-
side, containing only a little ferrous metasilicate.
The Tuxtla mineral is, therefore, strictly, a diopside- jadeite, with
the two molecules present in almost exactly equal amount. For the
benefit of archaeologists, who are not concerned with the niceties of
mineralogical nomenclature, it may be said that they would be
sufficiently correct to call the material jadeite, as it is a variety of
this mineral, and by this name it is thus clearly distinguished from
the other jade mineral, nephrite — a very important archaeological,
as well as mineralogical, distinction.
In his interpretation of the analyses of jadeite in the Bishop col-
lection, Clarke assumed the presence of a molecule (Ca, Mg, Fe) O.
Al203.4Si02, which he called pseudojadeite ; while Penfield, although
assuming that very small amounts of CaO, MgO, or FeO could re-
place NajO in jadeite, calculated the greater part of these RO
oxides as forming diopside in the analyses of the Bishop jadeiteg
which he discusses. Merwin and I, as has been said, seem forced to
assume the presence of small amounts of the babingtonite molecule,
FeO. (AljFe) 203.4810,, which is analogous to Clarke's pseudojadeite,
in some acmites and aegirites. But study of the molecular ratios fur-
nished by analyses of jadeite makes it clear that such a molecule
