AKT. 14. THE JADE OF THE TUXTLA STATUETTE WASHINGTON. 7
as Clarke's or ours, may be assumed to be present to account for only
a very small percentage of RO ; because for jadeites in which the
percentages of CaO, MgO, or FeO are high (as in that of the Tuxtla
statuette), the formation of such molecules demands more silica
to satisfy them than is found to be present. This is because in
these molecules the molecular amount of SiOj is four times that of
RO, while in diopside they are equal. A diopsidic molecule must,
of course, be assumed if the molecular amount of R2O3 is loss than
that of RjO+RO. It may be mentioned here, in anticipation of
future publication, that a stud}^ of jades from a cenote at Chichen
Itza, in Yucatan, now being prosecuted, shows that the presence of
the diopside molecule is a marked characteristic of the jades of
Middle America (Mexico and Central America), as contrasted with
those of Burma, and that the jade of the Tuxtla statuette is an end
member of a series of albite-jadeite rocks.
That diopside-jadeites chemically similar to that described here
are not uncommon is evident from a survey of the published jadeite
analyses, only a few of which are given in Table 1. Many jadeite
analyses that show high lime and magnesia, such as those by Damour,
are of rather early date and hence may not be altogether satisfactory,
but it can not be supposed that analytical errors have been committed
of such magnitude as to cause serious incorrectness in the large
amounts of lime and magnesia shown by them. Iti is also noticeable
that among analyses of jadeite, (especially from Middle America),
there is a definite serial progression from pure soda jadeite to
diopside-jadeite, shown by gradually increasing amounts of lime
and magnesia and diminution in silica and soda, as well as by con-
comitant changes in densitj^. A serial progression be5^ond, from
diopside-jadeite to diopside, is scarcely evident.
Examination of the analyses of jadeites published in Doelter's
Mineralchemie '" (which include those in Bishop's Jade Book), in-
dicates that there is a Yerj decided difference between man}^ of the
jadeites of southeast Asia and those of Mexico and Central America.
Most of the former are composed almost wholly of the purely sodic
jadeite molecule, while many of the latter contain very considerable
amounts of lime and magnesia, indicating the presence of the diop-
side molecule. It would appear that comparatively few of the
American jadeites are almost purely sodic. To illustrate, the follow-
ing table shows the averages of 15 analyses of jadeite from Burma
(including Tibet) (1) and of 11 from Mexico and Central America
(2) (taken from Doelter), the figures for only SiOj, CaO, MgO, and
NajO being given. The analysis of the Tuxtla statuette is included in
the average of No. 2.
w C. Doelter, Haaadbucli der Mineralchemie, vol. 2, pp. 652—658, 1914.
