ABT. 1. NORTH AMERICAN SAWFLIES ROHWliR. 33
the radius distinctly shorter than the third; radiellan cell without an
appendage; sheath oblique above, sharply pointed apically and taper-
ing to a broad base; lancet as in figure 48. Black; trochanters, the
four anterior tibiae and tarsi, the posterior tibiae except apices, and
the first four joints of the posterior tarsi, white; wings fuliginous,
subhyaline beyond the apex of the stigma.
Male. — Length 4.5 mm.; length of the antenna 3 mm. Hypo-
pygidium broadly rounded. The above description of the female
applies well to the male. The antenna (see figs. 22 and 32) are
slightly brownish beneath.
Type locality. — East Ei^-er, Connecticut.
t)escribed from two females (one type) and two males (one allo-
type), reared from larvae collected on Prunus serotina- by Chas. R.
Ely, and recorded under Bureau of Entomology number Tlopk. U. S.
136G0 i.
Type.—CdX. No. 21595, U.S.N.M.
Oviposition. — The eggs are placed in punctures in the midrib of the
leaf.
Larva. — (Fig. 73.) Length of full fed larva, 11 mm. Head pale,
tan freckeled; frons and labrum tan; clypeus, ventral mouthparts,
mandibles and cranium about antennae pale; black spot about eye
large, extending posteriorly almost to cranium ; black spot at vertex
large (fig. 55). Thorax with mesothorax and metathorax darkened
dorsally from above epipleurite gray to almost black, age and size of
the larva increasing the extent and depth of the color. Abdomen
of young larvae almost entirely pale excepting grayish dorsum of
eighth and ninth urites. In larger larvae the dorsum of the eighth
and ninth urites is gray or blackish, where gray, the dorsum of the
abdomen is pale, where blackish, the dorsum of the abdomen is gray.
Annulet A with from 4 to 6 pairs of small spines, annulets B and C
with numerous spines arranged in clusters forming transverse rows
across the dorsum, and annulet D narrow, indistinct, and without
spines (fig. 61).
Cocoon. — Length 8 mm.; width 3 mm. Transparent, pale brown,
thin walled, irregularly oval, attached to leaves, dirt, or side of rear-
ing cage.
Host. — Prunus serotina.
Parasites. — Mesoleptine pupae found in cocoons (determined by
S. A. Rohwer).
Seasonal history. — Solitary feeders, the young larvae skeletonizing
the leaf from the under surface while the older larvae eat holes
through from the under side. Larvae collected August 16th, spun
cocoons August 21, and transformed to pupae August 25th, emerging
as adults August 30th. September 2d of the same year more larvae
