10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60,
Greek art, and because the ideas do not seem, as yet, to have been
appHed to the object of our present study.
1. The reahstic treatment of the details of the bird's beak and the
rendering of the wing plumage would appear to be an example of
what is observed in the history of art among many diverse peoples:
that is, primitive man and the earliest artists were close observers of
animal life, and they were often able to depict animal forms very
successfully, generally more so than they could the human. This is
well known and is exemplified in Egyptian, Chaldean, Babylonian,
Assyrian, Cretan, Greek, and even in Paleolithic art. It would ap-
pear that the early artist of the Tuxtla figure was no exception to
the rule.
2. When we consider that this statuette is the earliest known dated
cultural work of a semicivilized people, and that it belongs to prob-
ably near the beginning of their historic period, the marked realism
and lively expression shown in the man's face are very striking — all
the more so when the extreme conventionalism of the later Mayan
sculpture is considered. One is inevitably reminded of the realism
and expression shown in the sculpture of the early d3masties of the
Ancient Empire of Egypt, of which Budge,*^ speaking of the tomb
reliefs of the Fourth Dynasty at Gizeh, says: "Their fidelity to
nature is surprising, and the skill with which they are executed, and
their delicacy of detail, mark them for all time as masterpieces of
art and sculpture, which the Eg3^tians under the later dynasties
rarely equaled and never surpassed." Examples in the round that
are well known to all are the Sheikh-el-Beled of the Bulaq Museum
and the Seated Scribe of the Louvre, In Egypt this early and very
successful realism disappeared in later times, and was replaced by
a conventional treatment of the human figure and face that was im-
posed on the artist by the powerful priesthood, except during a brief
period of freedom under Ahmenhetep IV. While one can not at-
tribute to the Tuxtla statuette the high artistic qualities of the sculp-
ture of the Fourth Egyptian Dynasty, yet in view of its artistic
merits and freedom from formalistic restraint one is tem.pted to see
a development in Mayan sculpture parallel to that in Egypt, both
having been brought about by analogous mfluences.
3. The face of the Tuxtla figure, in its realistic rendering, differs
much from most of the faces of Mayan art, which are not only con-
ventionalized, but appear grotesque or caricaturelike to us. But
differences that seem to be much more fundamental and due to a
quite different cause are manifest; for example, in the breadth of
the face, the elongated eyes, the straight and platyrrhine nose, and
the peculiar, smilingly human expression of our figure, which are in
15 E. A. ^Y. Budge, Short History of the Egyptian People, p. 43, 1914.
