SUGGESTIONS FOR COLLECTING AND PREPARING
DIATOMS.
By Albert Mann,
Custodian, Section of Diatoms, Umted States National Museum.
The study of the diatoms has taken on a much greater importance
than formerly, because of the now generally recognized fact that the
role they play in aquatic life, especially in the food supply of fishes,
is a very great one. In their fossil state also new uses for diatom earth
have been discovered and the amount of this material now supplied
to the various industries is enormous. I have been asked to give some
simple suggestions on the best methods for collecting these organisms
and preparing them for microscopic study.
The living forms, inhabiting all waters, fresh and marine, will be
first taken up. The presence of diatoms in any considerable quantity
can be detected in quiet waters by the rich brown or yellowish-brown
color of the film composed of diatoms, which coats the bottom of such
places or clothes the submerged stones, sticks, and other bodies. By
carefully removing this pellicle, for which a bent piece of tin or a
clamshell are good instruments, the collector secures a rich gather-
ing, very slightly mixed with dirt, sand, or other matter.
But there are few such places met with, especially in the collecting
of marine diatoms. Two very distinct methods of securing material
must be used, because we have to do with two unusually different hab-
its of life of the diatoms. Some of these are plankton, that is to say,
they live suspended in the water. The presence of the plankton forms
is generally unsuspected, because they are not readily visible in the
water, although generally present, and that, too, at times in immense
quantities. The plankton diatoms are secured by means of a plank-
ton net composed of silk bolting cloth with a mesh of about No. 18.
This net is attached to a wire ring having a diameter of about 15 to
18 inches and is conical in shape, but should be as far as possible
without folds, having a length of 2^ to 3 feet, and with the
lower end or tip slightly rounded. This absence of folds can be
secured by cutting the bolting cloth and carefully sewing up the seams
with a double line of stitches so as to avoid any flaps. Attached to a
stout cord by three lines tied to the wire rim at ec{uidistant points, the
No, 2410— Proceedings U. S. National Museum. Vol. 60, Art. 15.
1.
