2 PKOCEEDIXGS OF THE XATIOlSrAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
net is drawn through the water slowly, preferably back of a rowboat,
until the desired quantity of plankton diatoms has been secured.
This is washed into a jar, partly filled with water, bj'^ reversing the
net, A small quantity of commercial foi'malin is then added to the
jar to kill all the organisms and allow them to settle. The time re-
quired for settling depends upon the height of the water in the jar,
but should be given an hour in a jar containing 10 to 12 inches of
water, as the diatoms, which are characteristically delicate in planli-
ton forms, settle slowly. When settling is complete the excess of
water is very carefully poured away and the diatom sediment is
bottled.
The method used for cleaning and preparing the more robust
diatoms collected from the bottom of lakes, rivers, or the ocean, is
not well adapted to these delicate plankton species and special
methods are therefore necessary to prepare them for microscopic
study. In general the material in the bottom of the bottle can be
microscopically examined under a cover glass without further prep-
aration; but as the markings upon many of the species are difficult
to see in water, it is preferable to use a mounting medium of high
refractive index. Several methods can be suggested. By trans-
ferring some of the material from the collecting bottle to a small
homeopathic vial and gradually replacing it by alcohol, one can then
mount the material in so-called gum thus, also known as frankincense.
This is obtainable at most druggists. It is dissolved in pure alcohol
to the consistency of thick syrup. After the diatoms have been
transferred to a glass slide, and a drop of gum thus placed upon them
and covered with a cover glass, the mount is ready for examination
and has the advantage of being practically permanent, at least for
several years. This mounting medium will bring out the markings
of most of the plankton forms. There is, however, a better medium
which, because of its very much higher refractive index, shows the
more delicate structure which is hard to see in gum thus. This
medium, a solution of barium mercuric iodide, is made as follows :
To a saturated aqueous solution to barium iodide is added red
mercuric iodide until a slight excess of the latter remains undis-
solved. A drop or two of the saturated solution of barium iodide
is then added, in order to effect the solution of this excess of the
mercuric iodide. The perfectly clear yellow solution is now ready
for use and can be kept indefinitely in a well-stoppered bottle. A
minute quantity of the diatom sediment is placed by a pipette on the
slide. This is taken from the collecting bottle where the diatoms
are in weak formalin. The excess of water is drawn away from the
material on the slide by means of a triangular piece of thin blotting
paper or filter paper. A drop or two of the barium mercuric iodide
is then added, the diatoms gently stirred in with the needle, and
