6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
the investigator wishes to have his diatoms as free as possible from
extraneous matter.
The thoroughly washed and cleaned material is now put up in
bottles in 35 per cent alcohol and properly labeled.
No attempt will here be made to describe the subsequent mounting
of clean diatoms. This must be left to the wishes of the investigator,
dependent upon whether his purpose is to make strewings of the
diatoms or to pick the individuals out and mount them separately. If
the latter and of course the better method is used, it may be well to
add one or two suggestions. The writer uses special microscope slides
for picking out diatoms. The slides selected are thick, about 2 mm.
Eleven lines are drawn across the slide near the middle, about 3 mm.
apart with a writing diamond, and a median line is drawn across these
11 lines bisecting them, the lines thereby producing 20 spaces. Fig-
ures from 1 to 10 are written near the margin of the slide, numbering
the 10 cross divisions. One has thereby 20 spaces, upper and lower
No. 1, upper and lower No. 2, etc., and in picking diatoms he can
proceed in an orderly way from one side to the other, back and forth
through the spaces marked by the cross lines ; and when a diatom is
found and removed for mounting, he is able with this slide to go back
to the exact place where he left off by remembering the part of the
subdivision wdiere the selection was made. He therefore avoids going
over the same ground twice or missing part of the material on the
slide.
In making a strewing from which to pick individual diatoms a
couple of drops of the clean material well shaken up is placed upon
the slide, spread out over the lines by tilting the slide, and the water
and alcohol evaporated over a spirit lamp. The diatoms should lie
evenly strewn on the slide and be perfectly dry. If the cleaning has
been properly done and distilled water and absolute alcohol have
been used for the 35 per cent solution, the diatoms should be loose
upon the glass and can be picked up with the greatest ease. The only
wholly satisfactory way of accomplishing this selecting and mount-
ing of individual diatoms is by means of the apparatus known as the
mechanical finger. The method of using this delicate instrument
can not be taught by description. It must be demonstrated, and is
even then a part of diatom technic which requires long practice. But
the result obtained is so superior to diatom specimens in a strewn slide
that the learning of this process is strongly recommended. A strewn
slide bearing the name of any specific diatom contains many others,
and some may be very similar in general appearance. How is the
student to pick out the true type from this mass of material, when
he probabl}?^ is looking for an example of the type in order to know
how it looks ? But if each diatom is mounted separately, it becomes
