34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
were collected. These spun by September 12th, but did not emerge as
adults until April 13th of the following year.
PRIOPHORUS AEQUALIS (Norton).
Cladius aequalis Norton, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, vol. 4, 1872, p. 78.
Priophorus aequalis (Norton), Kirby, List Hym. Brit. Mus., vol. 1, 1882, p.
101.— MacGallivray, Bull. 22, Conn, Nat. Hist. Geol, Survey, 1916 (1917),
p. 109.
A single male, with apices of antennae wanting and right fore wing
on pin, without locality label but a name label in Norton's handwrit-
ing, is in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila-
delphia. This specimen agrees perfectly with the original description
and is with but little doubt from the type series. It may be designated
as electotype.
The species is closely allied to pruni but may be easily separated by
the middle fovea breaking through the crest. It agrees well with the
species here described as mrginianus ^ and it is not unlikely that it will
prove to be the male of that species.
Male. — Length, 5.5 mm. Anterior margin of the clj^peus broadly,
shallowly, arcuately emarginate; lobes small and obtuse; median
fovea deep, well defined, elongate, breaking through the frontal crest ;
ocellar basin obsolete dorsally ; a faint impression in front of anterior
ocellus; antennal furrows present but not strong; postocellar area
very narrow, distinctly limited laterally, and with a distinct median
fovea anteriorly; postocellar furrow wanting; third antennal joint
distinctly shorter and slightly broader than the fourth, with a faint
swelling at base beneath ; stigm.a rather broad, about three times as
long as greatest w^idth which is at base and from which it tapers to
apex ; first intercubitus obsolescent ; first abscissa of radius shorter than
the second, which is subequal with the third; second cubital on the
radius about two and one half times as long as third intercubitus;
second recurrent distinctly before the middle ; radiellen cell closed and
with a short appendage; hypopygidium broadly rounded apically.
Black; palpi, four posterior trochanters, four anterior tibiae and
tarsi, posterior tibiae and tarsi, except apical tarsi and apices of
tibiae which are brownish, whitish ; anterior femora reddish beneath ;
wings brownish to apex of stigma, then hyaline ; venation dark brown.
Description of above-mentioned specimen.
Distribution. — Farmington, Connecticut.
PRIOPHORUS VIRGINIANUS Rohwer, new species.
It is not unlikely that more material will prove that this is the
undescribed female of aequalis (Norton).
Female. — Length 5 mm. ; length of the antenna 4.25 mm. Clypeus
strongly convex medianly ; anterior margin broadly, arcuately emar-
