ART. 15. COLLECTING AND PREPARING DIATOMS MANN. 7
an ideal herbarium specimen and its value for purposes of identifica-
tion is great.
There remains tlie subject of the preparation of fossil diatoms.
So-called diatomaceous earth is generally free from organic matter
and is only subjected to acid treatment when it contains iron or other
substances that can be dissolved out by acids, or especially when it
contains calcareous matter. Diatomaceous earth of this last kind is
easily disintegrated by treatment with hydrochloric acid ; as the lime
is thereby dissolved and the mass falls into a powder. But most
diatomaceous earth is not so easily handled, being composed entirely
of silica remains and often hardened into a stony condition. The
breaking up of such samples can not be done by pulverizing, as this
would shatter nearly all of the diatoms. The mass must be gently
brought into a powdery condition. The best way of accomplishing
this is to first break the material up into small pieces about the size
of a pea, using for this purpose not a hammer, but a stout needle,
which cracks off small particles without breaking many of the
diatoms. The pieces having thus been reduced in size are boiled in a
beaker with a weak solution of some mild alkali, like sodium car-
bonate. A solution of borax also sometimes works satisfactorily.
The material is boiled until the liquid begins to look milky by the
slow breaking away of the diatoms from the lumps. The liquid is
then poured into a larger beaker, fresh alkali water added to the
lumps, and again boiled. The process is kept up until by this gentle
method the lumps are slowly broken down. After the combined
boilings poured together have been allowed to settle, the liquid is
poured off and the sediment washed by decantation until all trace of
the alkali is removed.
In cases of extremely resistent fossil material, where neither hydro-
chloric acid nor long boiling in weak alkaline solutions breaks down
the lumps, this disintegration may sometimes be effected by soaking
the lumps in strong sodium carbonate, quickly replacing with hy-
drochloric acid, returning again to sodium carbonate, and so alter-
nating until the violent chemical reactions set up within the lumps by
these alternations have mechanically broken them down.
If the repeated washings necessary with any of the foregoing
processes are properly timed they will also accomplish the removal
of clay or minute broken particles of diatoms that are in the sedi-
ment. Where the fossil substance contains sand, the final process of
rotating this in an evaporating dish will remove it, as in the case of
the living diatom material previously described. The cleaned dia-
toms are then put up in bottles with 35 per cent alcohol, as in the
case of the living material.
It sometimes happens with fossil material, more rarelj^ with fresh,
that a fine flocculent residue is mixed with the cleaned diatoms and
