AKT. 16. ANDORITE-BEARING SILVER ORE SHANNON. 5
lead has greatly increased. The fact that the alteration has resulted
in a great decrease in volume shows that the alteration has been by
the removal of silver and antimony rather than by the addition of
lead. There is nothing to indicate that this change is the result of
surlicial weathering or any attendant process. Apparently all of the
constituents of this ore are primary and the ore has not been affected
hy secondar}'' downward sulphide enrichment. It would seem that
the andorite, stable under the conditions under which it was formed,
became unstable under conditions obtaining later in the history of the
■^'ein and broke down, a part of the silver and antimony being re-
moved as sulphides. The loss of silver and antimonial sulphides has
been in the same ratio to each other in which they are present in the
original mineral, namely, AggS.SSbgSs- No simple silver sulphanti-
monite of these ratios is known.
THE GANGUE CARBONATE.
The carbonate, which forms the earliest mineral of the ore, is pale-
pinkish buff (Ridgway) in color and is finely granular, except where
it lined open cavities, where it formed crusts of small crystals. The
material is brecciated, and some fragments which are isolated in the
quartz are largely replaced by finely-divided metallic sulphides.
These are too small for their identity to be definitely determined
without microscopic study of polished surfaces in reflected light, but
it is probable that the grains are mostly andorite and sphalerite.
Small fragments of the carbonate were selected free from admixed
minerals and analyzed with the following results:
Analysis of rhodochrosite from Nevada.
MnO 49. 49
FeO 7.68
CaO 3.13
MgO . 93
CO2 (calculated) 38. 87
Total 100.10
Stated as carbonates of the respective bases this analysis gives :
MuCO, SO. 15
FeCO, 12.39
CaCO, 5.59
MgCO. 1. 97
Total 100.10
This is, as is to be expected, a relatively pure rhodochrosite. Such
highly manganiferous carbonates are very frequent as gangue min-
erals in hydrothermal silver veins. The significance of this associa-
tion will be further discussed in a paper which is in preparation.
