ART. 17. FLIES OF THE GENUS TACHYTEECHUS GREENE. 7
4. TACHYTRECHUS FLORIDENSIS Aldrich.
Fig. 4.
Tachytrechits florUJcnsis Ai^drich, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, 1S96, vol. 23,
p. 82.
Male. — Face silvery white, nearly twice as wide on the lower part
as it is immediately below the antennae. Front greenish, heavily
coated with a whitish dust. Antennae black, first and second joint
a little elongated; third joint rounded. Arista black, slightly longer
than the antennae. Orbital cilia mostly white, just a few black bris-
tles above. Thorax green, heavily coated with a white dust around
the sides, more of a brownish in the center. In some lights the green
ground color is quite visible. Just above the root of the wing is a
dark brown spot. Scutellum green with a coating of golden brown
dust. Abdomen metallic green heavily coated with a white dust;
down the center of the dorsum and along the apical edge of each seg-
ment more shining, near the apical edge of each segment is a trans-
verse row of large black bristles. Hypopygium large, first joint
small, next joint large and globular, covered with a whitish dust and
fine black hairs, lower edges shiny reddish-black; lamellae nearly
black, somewhat triangular ; the outer lower edge rounded and with
long black hairs. All the coxae dark with a silvery dust. Front and
hind femora on their basal two-thirds and the middle pair on slightly
more than their basal half, greenish covered with a silvery dust;
tibiae reddish-yellow with brownish tips and all tarsi dark brown.
Wings hyaline, slender, rounded at tip with a large, round blackish
brown spot at apex ; this spot extends narrowl}?^ before the third vein
and is separated from the posterior edge of the wing by a very narrow
hyaline margin. Posterior cross vein straight. Halteres pale yellow.
Tegulae pale yellow with long black cilia.
Female. — Very much like the male except as follows : Face only
ilightly wider. Antennae a little shorter. Wings not quite so nar-
row and without the apical spot. On the outside of the fore tibiae
there are one or two small black bristles in a third series.
Length 5 mm.
Type locality, — Florida, F. H. Snow, collector.
Cotype, male and female.— Cat. No. 24140, U.S.N.M, Deposited
by J. M. Aldrich in United States National Museum collection.
Originally described from two males and two females, labeled " Fla."
One specimen, a male, from Biscay ne Bay, Florida, Mrs. Slosson,
collector. In United States National Museum.
5. TACHYTRECHUS VOUTAMS Melander,
Fig. 3.
Tachytrechus voUtans Melander, Can. Ent.. 1900. vol. 32, p. 143, fig. S.
Face broad, dull, pale yellow (in certain lights pale golden),
wider below, narrower above (just below the antennae). Front dull.
