8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. tol. 00.
dark velvet}?^ brown; ocellar triangle slightly darker, dull brown.
First two joints of antennae blackish; first joint when viewed from
behind, brownish; when viewed from in front, opaque-black, ex-
cept inner projection; about one and one-half times the length of
the second; third joint missing. Thorax with the ground color of
brilliant metallic copper-color, shining through a thick coating of
brown dust ; a broad central stripe shining ; sides with a pale brown
and in certain lights with a nearly white pruinosity. Abdomen
deep bronze, sides reddish broadly though lightly dusted with a
whitish pruinosity. Hypopygium large, black ; stem short and fairly
thick; lamellae dull black with longer hairs on the outer edge. Legs
mostly bronze blackish with whitish pruinosity ; tips of all tibiae and
tarsi black (except base of metatarsi). Tips of all femora, greater
part of the tibiae and base of metatarsi faintly reddish yellow.
Front coxae half as long as the front femora and about twice as thick
as same. Pulvilli relatively longer than in fioridensis, snow-white.
Wing with a large black spot at apex, touching the third vein in front
and bisected by the fourth; a small, hemispherical, snow-white spot
behind at the tip of the wing. Halteres deep brownish yellow on
the knobs, base of stem nearly black.
Female. — Very much like the male except as follows: Wing en-
tirely hyaline. General color of body and dark portions of the legs
more greenish. Central stripe of thorax not polished, nearly as dull
as the sides. Abdomen more greenish and with more white pruinosity.
Legs paler yellow, this color more noticeable than the black.
The male is labeled " 12 m. N. AV. of Lusk, Wyo. July, '95 ; U. of K.
Lot 428 ; Type ; W. M. Wheeler, collection." The female labeled the
same except Lot 430. Both specimens in the collection of the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History, Mew York City.
6. TACHYTRECHUS BINODATUS Loew.
Fig. 14.
Tachytrechus Unodatus Loew, Centuries, 1S61, pt. 7, No. 84, p. 106.
Macellocerns binodatus Loew, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, 1896, vol. 23, p. 83.
Male. — Face about as long as the eye ; dull golden-yellow ; just be-
low antennae about half as wide as at lower end. Front bronze green,
not very shiny. Ocelli j^ellowish. Antennae mostly bright yellow;
first joint swollen at apex, nearly as wide at apex as it is long, black,
bristly hairs above; second joint quite small and rudimentary; third
joint slightly rounded, mostly brownish-black, a little yellow along
the base. Arista mostly black, slightly swollen at base, a lamella in
the middle and another at the tip ; the outer half of the stem and the
base of the apical lamella white. Orbital cilia black above and whit-
ish below. Thorax and scutellum bronze-green covered with a brown
dust; two velvety black spots in front of the base of the wings, the
anterior spot not very distinct. Abdomen more brassy-green coated
