ART. 17. FLIES OF THE GENUS TACHYTRECHUS — GREENE. 9
with a yellowish-white dust; apical edge of each segment narrowly
brownish-black. Hypopygium large, brassy or bluish-green coated
with a yellowish- white dust; lower edges shiny, black to reddish;
lamellae brown, yellowish at base, hairs brownish-black. On the outer
lower corner is a finger-like projection. Front coxae yellow, gray on
underside ; middle and hind ones grayish-black. Legs and base of all
metatarsi 3^ellowish at the base. Tips of fore and hind tibia, bases of
the middle and hind femora and the remainder of the tarsi blackish-
brown. Front femora decidedly broadened on the basal two-thirds,
on the inner side is a large, elliptical bare spot. Wings faintly tinged
with brown, edge faintly curved inward before and after the fifth
vein ; posterior cross- vein with a deep bend in the middle. Halteres
pale yellow. Tegulae pale yellow, fringes long and black.
Female. — Very much like the male except darker in color and more
robust. Face wider, silvery. Front grayish-brown with a whitish
dust. Antennae shorter, third joint with more reddish-yellow. Arista
black, about three-fourths as long as face, thickened on the basal third.
Apical end of fore and middle femora, outer surface of hind femora,
basal fifth of middle and hind tibiae, fore tibiae except apical end, and
basal half of all the metatarsi reddish-jellow ; balance of the legs in-
fuscated with dark brown. All legs dusted lightly with a whitish
dust. Wings faintly tinged with brown, broader and not so deeply
incised on posterior edge. Posterior cross-vein deeply but more
broadly arcuate.
Length 5 mm.
Type-locality. — Saratoga, New York, Osten Sacken.
Type. — In the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mas-
sachusetts.
Distribution. — Battle Creek, Michigan ; Ira, Summit Countj^, Ohio,
September 10, 1894; Lafayette, Indiana, May 22, 1915. Four speci-
mens deposited in United States National Museum Collection by J. M.
Aldrich. Durham Pond, Morris County, New Jersey, August 18,
1901, George M. Greene, collector.
7. TACHYTRECHUS BIPUNCTATUS, new species.
Figs. 13, IS.
Male. — Face twice as wide at each end as it is about one-third the
distance below the antennae, densely coated with a yellow dust, dull
and slightly shorter than length of eyes. Front deep green, in certain
lights with a dark brown area in middle ; ocellar triangle dark green,
ocelli very pale yellow. Antennae mostly yellow, first joint quite
large, twice the length of the third, slightly infuscated at tip ; second
joint very rudimentary, third joint somewhat rounded, brown-black
