10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vou CO,
except the base and lower corner which is yellow. Arista longer than
the face, black, thickened at base only, lamellae black, elliptical, with
a white elliptical spot on upper edge at the base. Thorax and scutel-
lum dark green bronze with a dark brown dust. Abdomen a lighter,
brassy green, coated with a golden brown dust. Hypopygium large,
pedicel whittish pruinose on upper side with a greenish reflection in
certain lights and slightly corrugated, shiny reddish-black below,
second joint from the side, triangular with whitish pruinosity and
long black hairs, last joint very large, heavily pruinose, basally with a
lavender tint, otherwise pale green with two smoother black dots in
the center, lower portion on the sides shiny reddish-black, lamellae
broad, pale yellow with long black hairs. Legs all yellow except
extreme tips of middle and hind tibiae and all tarsi, blackish. Front
femora with long, straight black hairs on lower side. Wings slender,
faintly tinged with brown ; tegulae pale yellow with long black cilia ;
halteres pale yellow.
Female. — Very similar except the general color is slightly darker.
Face is more silvery, antennae shorter, third joint all black except a
very small area at lower corner, arista normal, not quite as long as
the face and brown in color, darker at the base. Orbital cilia whit-
ish close to the oral margin. Legs more reddish, apical two-thirds
of front tibiae blackish ; front coxae and a large spot on under side
of front femora, at the base, silvery gray. Infuscation on the tibiae
extends more on apical half, but is much darker on apical fourth.
Length, 6 mm.
Type locality. — St. Anthony, Idaho. Dr. J. M. Aldrich, collector.
Described from three males and one female. Two males and the
female from St. Anthony, Idaho, July 16, 1900, and a male from
Soda Spring, Idaho, June, 1900, J. M. Aldrich, collector.
Type., male. — Allotype^ female, and two paratypes. Cat. No. 24132,
U.S.N.M.
Closely allied to T. auratus Aldrich, but easily separated by the
straight hairs on the front femora, the size of the antennae, the
small lamella of the arista and the hypopygium has two small dark
spots. This species is also larger in size than auratus.
8. TACHYTRECHUS TENUISSTA, new spscies.
Fig. 10.
Male. — Face just above the middle about one-third to one-half the
width of the lower part and heavily coated with a golden brown
dust; front deep green, not very shiny, ocellar triangle black, ocelli
pale yellow. Orbital cilia and mouth parts black. Antennae en-
tirely yellow; first joint about twice the 'length of two and three
together; this joint has a thumblike projection on the inside near
the apex; second joint rudimentary; third joint quite short and
