AKT. 17. FLIES OF THE GENUS TACHYTRECHUS GREENE. 11
rounded. Arista about twice the length of the head; lamellae
rounded at tip, tapering down to a point at the base, and below this
is a snow-white area nearly as long as the lamella ; stem black, very
slender and slightly thickened at extreme base. Thorax and scutel-
lum very dark green with brown dustlike reflections in certain lights ;
scutellum dark green. Abdomen brighter green in certain lights,
blackish along apical edge and very broadly silvery-white pollinose
on basal three- fourths. Hypopygium large, yellowish at base, whit-
ish in center and blue green on apical third, the edge and projecting
parts reddish-black and heavily chitinous; lamella yellow, some-
what triangular in shape, fringe brown. Femora, tibiae, and basal
three- fourths of middle metatarsi yellow, rest of middle tarsus and
all of hind tarsus brownish; front tarsi all yellow with silvery
pruinosity, but in certain lights it is slightly infuscated above with
brown. Front tibia has a row of black macrochaetae on the front
and side; between these two rows is a row of fine, short, bristly
hairs, and two or three large macrochaetae near the base. Wings
very faintly tinged with brown on apical half; tegulae whitish yel-
low with long black fringe; halteres yellow; stems slightly brownish
on base.
Female.— Vevy much like the male, except the following points:
Face immediately below the antennae nearly as broad as the lower
part, heavily coated with silvery dust, slightly shorter than the length
of eye. Antennae little darker, third joint nearly all black, reddish
along lower basal edge. Arista normal, about as long as face. Legs
deep brown, except apical third of all femora and basal half of all
tibiae reddish yellow ; all femora with a deep greenish reflection.
Length, 4^-5 mm.
Tyjm locality.— Nev^Y^ort, Oregon, August 12, 1902 ; J. M. Aldrich,
collector.
Described from two males and eight females.
Type, mole.— Allotype, female and three paratypes. Cat. No.
24133, U.S.N.M.
Allied to T. sanus, but is easily separated by the difference of the
antennae, arista, hypopygium, and the bristles of the front tibia. In
sanus the middle row of bristly hairs are longer and the two or three
macrochaetae at the base are absent.
9. TACHYTRECHUS LATICRUS Van Dnzee.^
Figs. 15, 17.
Tachytrechus laticrus Van Duzee, Ent. News, 1918, p. 46.
Male.— Face as long as the eye height, golden yellow, dull, just
below the antennae about one-third as wide as the lower part. Front
'This species was first Identified by D. W. Coquillett, but the description was never
published.
