12 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vor. 60.
dull, blackish, covered with a little yellowish dust. Antennae en-
tirely light yellow and short; first joint swollen at apex, nearly equal
to the length, short bristly hairs on upper side at apex only ; second
joint quite rudimentary ; third joint slightly rounded. Arista about
as long as the face, entirely black. About the basal fifth is straight.
at the end of this fifth it appearcs to be broken or bent and from
here it tapers on to a very thin stem ; at the apex is a small elliptical
lamella pointed at the tip. Orbital cilia black. Thorax mostly
blackish, covered with a dark-brown pollen. There is a bluish-green
area covered with a white pollen reaching from one wing around
the edge to the other wing. This area is broken by a brown stripe
in the middle of the front edge of the thorax. The posterior corners
of the thorax are flattened and covered with a white pollen, just
above each of these spots is a small area, somewhat triangular, cov-
ered with a silvery dust. On the side of the thorax opposite the
root of the wing is a large, velvety black spot. Scutellum metallic
black with just a little brown dust. Abdomen metallic greenish
black with considerable whitish pollen, especially on the sides and at
the base. Hypopygium large, black, shining on the inner side, cov-
ered with whitish pollen on the outer surface; lamellae nearly round,
black, fringed with black hairs, inner appendages shining black.
Coxae black with white pollen, fore coxae with j^ellow pollen and
black hairs and bristles on the front surface; femora deep metallic
green, dusted lightly with a whitish dust ; tips of all femora, middle
tibia except apical fourth, basal three-fourths of middle metatar-
sus reddish-yellow ; hind tibiae, tarsi, tips of middle tibiae, tips of
fore and middle metatarsi, the last four joints of the fore and middle
tarsi reddish-black ; front tibia pale yellow, very broad on the apical
two-thirds, the lower edge with a series of broad, flat bristles de-
creasing in size toward the apex. Basal three-fourths of front
metatai-sus pale yellow. Wings grayish hyaline, costal vein greatly
thickened near the base ; halteres reddish-yellow. Tegulae pale yel-
low with black cilia.
Female. — Very much like the male. Face wider, silvery. Antennae
normal, artista short about three-fourths as long as face. Legs mostly
greenish-black, front tibiae normal ; tibiae yellowish except towards
the tip ; base of metatarsi yellowish.
Type lo<iality. — Manahawkin, New Jersey, May 30, 1910- July 31,
1912, H. S. Harbeck, collector.
Four specimens deposited in the United States National Museum
by J. M. Aldrich.
Type. — In collection of M. C. Van Duzee.
