AET. 17. FLIES OF THE GENUS TACHYTRECHUS — GREENE. 13
10. TACHYTRECHUS OLYMPIAE Aldrich.
Figs. 7, 9, 19.
Macelloceius olympiae Aldrich, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, 1896, vol. 23, p. 83.
Male. — Face not quite as long as eye height, dull yellow, just below
antennae, about half as wide as at lower end. Front deep, bronze
green, dull. Antennae mostly reddish-yellow, first joint swollen
towards tip and about two and one-half times the length of the second
and third joints together, black bristly hairs above; second joint
quite rudimentary; third joint blackened except at the base. Arista
about one and one-third times the height of head, white, base thick-
ened and blackish, lamella black, rounded at apex and the lower
point white- Orbital cilia black above, whitish below, an evenly
arranged lot of white bristles in the middle of the orbital cilia. Thorax
bronze-green, with two small velvety black spots in front of the wing
base. Abdomen bronze-green with a whitish dust. Hypopygium
large, basal part shining black, central segment bronze-green behind,
lamellae whitish, covered with black hairs, those of the margin hardly
coarser. Legs mostly yellow, tarsi brownish-black, in certain lights
silvery dusted. Front coxae yellow blackish at base ; middle and hind
coxae with golden dust, hind pair with silvery. Front femur very
broad on basal two-thirds, with a large blackish-brown spot on the
outside. Wings narrow and slightly brownish. Halteres yellow.
Tegulae pale yellow, fringe black.
Female. — All the body colors darker. Face wider, greenish-j'ellow.
Antennae shorter, third joint black, faintly reddish at base. All
coxae black; femora more or less dark on the basal part, front
femora not swollen but with a gray, silvery area on outside near the
base, the hind ones black-green except the apical half or third ; tibiae
black on the apical third or fourth. Wings longer and much wider
than in the male.
Lenth 6 mm.
Type locality. — Olympia, Washington (Trevor Kincaid), June 3
and July 1, 1894.
Disti^hution. — Corvalis, Oregon, August 15, 1902; Longmire
Springs, Mount Rainier, Washington, August 2, 1905; Algonquin,
Illinois, May 24, 1895 ; Keyport, Washington, August 7, 1905 ; Pot-
latch, Idaho, June 20, 1907; Mono Lake, California, July 22, 1911;
Owen's Lake, California, July 27, 1911; Pacific Grove, California,
May, 1906.
Two cotypes (Cat. No. 24783, U.S.N.M.) and six specimens de-
posited in United States National Museum Collection by J. M.
Aldrich. Originally described from two males and two females
(cotypes).
