4 PROCEEDINGS OF THK NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
BOMBUS RUFOCOGNITUS, new species.
Female. — A species of the B. mastmcatus group, with short malar
space (though not quite so short as in masfrucatus) and toothed
mandibles. Length about 22 mm., anterior wing 18 mm. ; head with
black hair ; ocelli small ; clypeus convex, polished, dull at sides, very
sparsely punctured ; malar space broader than long, but not so short
as in B. laticeps Friese; mandibles 5-dentate; thorax with bright
fox-red hair, except a broad black band between the wings ; tegulae
piceous, reddish posteriorly; wings dark fuliginous; legs black (the
hind tibiae and basitarsi obscurely reddish), with black hair, more
or less red on femora beneath ; first two abdominal segments with
bright lemon-yellow hair, next two with black (but the yellow hair
overlapping base of third), apex with bright red hair.
Suifu. Szechwan, China (Graham). Two females.
Type.— Cdii. No. 24880, U.S.N.M.
The red hair of thorax, contrasting with the yellow of the base of
the abdomen, is ver}' remarkable. The species resembles B. laticeps
Friese, but differs by the longer malar space, and t.Avo abdominal seg-
ments black-haired. It is easil}^ distinguished from B. alienus Smith,
by the dark wings. It is readily known from B. hraecafvs Friese by
the red thoracic hair and shorter malar space.
Thirty-four forms of Bomhus are known from China, not includ-
ing three species and four varieties peculiar to Formosa. None of
these is exactly identical with any of the 16 known from Japan or
the 3 known from Sakhalin, but a few of the Chinese species occur
in the Himalayas. Certain of the Chinese forms have been referred
as subspecies or varieties to the European B. lapidaHus, hortoruvi,
■pj'atorurti^ mendax^ and terre&fris, but they are at least distinctively
colored. Japan contains endemic races of B. hortorum, 7Jiusconcm,
sHvarurn, terrestris, and prafom?)i, in addition to several peculiar
species.
BOMBUS TETRACHROMUS Cockerel!. 1909.
Bomlnis 7iursei, var. tetrachromus Friese,^ is evidently the same
thing. The name tetrachromus would be the prior one for the spe-
cies, but as Friese suggests, the tetrachromus form is perhaps specifi-
cally distinct from nursei.
BOMBUS BIZONATUS Smith, 1878.
Kuen Luen Mountains, near Kukiar, East Turkestan, 9.000 feet,
July 30, 1894 (W. L. Abbott). One worker. I can not distinguish
this in the worker from B. ^ilantoewl Morawitz, from Pjatigorsk,
N. Caucasus (Skoinikov). but in tlie female hhonatus has longer
^Deutsch Ent. Zelt., 1918, p. 85.
