ART. 18. BEES [N THE NATIONAL MUSEUM COCKERELL. 5
wings, and seems to be separable. B. hizonatus has conspicuously
paler wings than B. tunicatus Smith.
Another worker, collected at the same time and place, has the
pale hair of thorax and abdomen creamy-white. It looks like B.
abhotti^ but the light hair of basal segments of abdomen is creamy-
white instead of yellow, and the hair fringing the hind tibiae is all
black. It is a pale form of hizonatus.
XYLOCOPA CHIONOTHORAX Cockerell, 1907.
Canton, China, May 18, 1918 (C. W. Howard). Three females.
The upper basal edge of the first abdominal segment is rounded,
not sharply truncate. The type was described from " China," with-
out other details.
XYLOCOPA ORICHALCEA LepeUtier.
Snifu. Szechwan, China (Graham.)
XYLOCOPA MICANS Lepeletier.
Homestead, Florida, 12 1. IT. (C. A. Mosier.) Two females, one
male.
XYLOCOPA TABANIFORMIS Smith.
Panamint Valley, California, April, 1891, (Koeble ). Two males.
CENTRIS FLAVIFRONS Fabricius.
Four from Mazatlan and Rosario, Sinaloa, Mexico, presented by
B. P. Clark. These are genuine fiavifrons., not the variety flavo-
fasciata which Friese records from Mexico.
CENTRIS DISCLUSA. new species.
Male. — Like C. nigrofasciata Friese, with very broad black tho-
racic band, but hair on hind tibiae and basitarsi long and black
(largely tipped with white on basitarsi) ; tegument of abdomen en-
tirely yellowish-gi'een ; second abdominal segment with a large
chrome-yellow patch on each. side.
Posoya, Ecuador (F. Campos R..). Two males.
Type.— C2it. No. 24881, U.S.N.M.
Unfortunately Friese describes only the females of his C. nigro-
fasciata and C. buchwaldi, to which C. disclusa is closely allied.
Both come from Guayaquil, whence I have a specimen of nigro-
fasciata. C. disclusa., bj^ the wholly green abdomen and dark hair
on hind legs, should be nearest to huchwaldi, but the third abdominal
segment has only very scanty short red hairs at apex, instead of
being mainly red haired, and the yellow patches on second segment
are lacking in huchtoaldi. It therefore seems that a distinct race
or species is indicated, but it is possible that we have the male of
huchwaldi.
