AHT. 18. BEES IN THE NATIONAL MJJSEUM COCKERELL. 7
EUGLOSSA CYANURA Cockerell.
Female. — San Remo, Ecuador, 30 meters altitude (F. Campos R.).
Looks like E. variabilis, but the black spot on scutellum is very much
larger, and the labrum is shorter. The specimen has the mesothorax
brassy; the abdomen is emerald green in some lights and deep purple-
blue in others.*
EUGLOSSA CORDATA (Linnaeus).
This species is very variable and it is possible that several races
may be distinguished when adequate field studies and collections are
made.
Ancon, Canal Zone, Panama (A. H. Jennings) ; Taboga Island,
Panama, June 13, 1911, and February 24, 1912 (Busck) ; Alhajuelo,
Canal Zone, Panama, May 28, 1912 (Busck) ; Experiment Station,
Matico Hernandez, near Panama City (H. Pittier) ; Paraiso, Canal
Zone, Panama, January 17, 1911 (Busck) ; Cayuga, Guatemala, June,
1915 (Wm. Schaus) ; Aquinares, Costa Rica, February, 1921 (A.
Alfaro) ; Cayenne (Wm. Schaus) ; Cumaragua, Venezuela (B. J.
Blanco). A male from Taboga Island, carries a pair of orchid pol-
linia on its back, so apparently the males may assist in pollinating
orchids.
ANTHOPHORA ABJUNCTA, new Bpecies.
Female. — Very close to A. acervo7'um pennata (Lepeletier), but
third antennal joint shorter (about 0.65 mm.; pennata about 0.95
mm.) and more robust; hair of thorax above bright fox-red, without
and black intermixed ; hair on first abdominal segment exactly as in
peiw,ata, but on others (dorsally) black or dark brown, with thin
bands of long pale fulvous hair; hair on outer side of hind tibiae
and basitarsi dark reddish grading into black. It is distinguished
from A. retusa Linnaeus by the red (not green) eyes, and the first
recurrent nervure joining the second submarginal cell far bej'^ond
the middle. Face without light markings; hair of head black,
grayish on lower part of cheeks ; venter of thorax with whitish hair,
but sides mainly with bright fox-red; tegulae clear ferruginous;
wings dusky ; small joints of tarsi dull red ; spurs red.
Suifu, Szechwan, China (Graham).
Type.— C^it. No. 24883, U.S.N.M.
The clypeus is dull, and wholly without a median keel (such as
occurs in A. agama Radoszkowski). This is the sixteenth species of
Anthophora from China.
* Male. — I hare recently identified three males from Ancon, Panama Caual Zone, as
this species. They have the scape largely pale beneath and the aides of the face nar-
rowly white. S. A. ROHWER.
