ART. 18. BKES [X THE XATIONAI. MUSEUM — COCKERP^LL. 9
apical half of hind tibiae and nearly all of their basitarsi black; tegu-
luG pale fulvous; wings dusky (not whitened apically) with dull fer-
ruginous stigma and nervures. Eyes pale ochreous ; head broad, the
black parts covered with fine pale brown tomentum, appearing whit-
ish in certain lights ; scape entirely yellow in front ; face entirely pale
yellow up to level of antennae, including the triangular supraclypeal
area, lateral face-marks sending a slender line up orbital margins,
clypeus without markings; labrum and the simple mandibles yellow;
thorax quite densely covered with pale fulvous hair ; hind tibiae not
exceptionally broad for the genus, fringed in front with sparse long
red hairs, but behind with largely dark ones; abdomen narrow,
parallel-sided, entirely clear red.
Manaos, Brazil (Miss H, B. Merrill).
Type.—CRt. No. 24877, U.S.N.M.
In my manuscript key to Trigona this runs to T. goettei Friese, but
that has the abdomen brownish apically, and appears to be distinct.
It is actually very close to T. dorsalis Smith, 1854, but is larger, with
the wings not reddened, and the sides of the clypeus straighter. The
upper edge of the lateral face marks is gently concave.
TRIGONA SUFFRAGATA, new species.
Worker. — Length about 1) mm., anterior vving 9 mm. ; clear red,
with the wings dilute ferruginous, the apical margin broadly faintly
dusky. No black on thorax, abdomen or legs, but head black, with
the face cream color to above level of antennae, and a pair of oval
testaceous marks on middle of front. Labrum cream color; mandi-
bles with a large inner tooth, the apical margin and tooth dark:
malar space distinct; scape cream color in front, flagellum ferrugi-
nous beneath ; eyes pale purplish-gray ; cheeks covered with pale to-
mentum. Abdomen parallel-sided, compressed.
Five from Colombia (Harry Sargent).
Type.— C?it. No. 24876, U.S.N.M.
Tvuns in ray table to T. wUJicma Friese, but is paler, with differently
colored head. The hind tibia also is long, and much more slender
basally. It is much larger than T. mellea Smith, and differs from
that also in the shape of the hind tibia.
NANNOTRIGONA, new genus.
Small black species with very coarsely rugose thorax, and the
scutellum elongate, produced into two sharp angles or teeth.
Type. — Nannotrlgona testaceicornis^=^{Melipona testaceicorms Le-
peletier; Trigona punctata. Smith; T. perilampoidcs Cresson).
NANNOTRIGONA TESTACEICORNIS (Lepeletier) .
I-/epeletier must have had the common species usually known under
punctata, mellario, or perilampoides, but he erroneously describes
