10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60.
the abdomen as " nigro subvillosum." In the United States National
Museum are specimens exhibiting a good deal of variation, as fol-
lows:
Apical teeth of scutellum little produced, and end of scutellnm (not teeth only)
fulvous right across ; abdomen appearing pale-banded.
Izamal, Mexico (Gaumer).
Light color at end of scutellum confined to the teeth, or almost so.
Outer face of hind basitarsi dark Para, Brazil.
Outer face of hind basitarsi longitudinally bicolored, black and fulvous.
Guayaquil, Ecuador (Buchwald) ;
Costa Rica (Crawford) ;
Izamal, Yucatan (Gaumer) ;
Mexi(*o (Baker collection) ;
EI Rancho, Guatemala (C. C. Deam) ;
Piura, Peru.
These are certainly only one species, I think. The following ap-
pears to represent a good local race.
NANNOTEIGONA TESTACEICOENIS TRISTELLA, new subspccieg.
Margins of mesothorax, axillae, and scutellum entirely black.
Four from Lagunita de Aroa. Venezuela, 2,000 feet (M. A. Car-
riker).
Type.— CB.t. No. 24878, U.S.N.M.
MELIPONA FAVOSA (Fabricius).
This was described by Fabricius in 1798 and by Latreille in 1802.
In the Oxford Museum I found a specimen labeled by Latreille. It
is a Melipona with strongly orange-tinted wings; thorax with fox-
red hair; ciypeus light ferruginous, with two broad dark reddish
bars, not reaching upper end, the distance between them less than
the width, of either ; a small semicircular supraclypeal mark ; flagel-
lum bright ferruginous beneath ; face on each side of ciypeus obscure
testaceous. Another specimen (not labeled by Latreille) has the
supraclypeal mark transversely kidney-shaped.
DOERINGIELLA BIZONATA Kolmberg.
Two males from La Rioia, Argentina, donated by B. P. Clark, are
smaller than usual, but I think can only be referred to this species.
NOMIA STRIGATA RmLEYI (CockereU).
Female. — Canton, China (C. W. Howard). New to China. This
is the seventh Nomia from China, but doubtless many more occur, as
no less than 13 have been described as new from Formosa, while 2
of the mainland species {thoracica and punctulata) also occur there.
Japan has only one recorded genuine Noniia., the N. japonica of
Smith being (according to Meade- Waldo) an Ajidrena.
