AKT. 18. BEES r:N^ THE NATIONAL MUSEUM COCKERELL. 13
a distinct median depression or groove (compare the Indian S.
apicatus Smith) ; punctures of mesothorax smaller and more sparse,
with much shining surface showing; area of metathorax longer,
more coarsely and irregularly reticulate; wings, while dusky, not
nearly so dark, and without the fine purj^le iridescence ; abdomen
with much longer, pale hair in apical region; red of under side of
abdomen much darker; stigma larger. The abdomen is almost en-
tirely impunctate. The tegulae are without the light spot on outer
side.
Suifu, Szechwan, China (Graham).
Type.— Cat. No. 24886, U.S.N.M.
These two species are easily known from the Chinese >*>'. kershawi
Perkins (from Macao) by the entirely red base of abdomen; but the
female of kerslmwi is unknown, and may well have the base of abdo-
men all red. By the color of the wings, hershmoi would fall next to
S. grahaini.
SPHECODES IGNITUS, new species.
Male. — Length a little over 8 mm. ; robust; head broad, black, with
the clypeus and mandibles dark red; antennae black, the flagellar
joints strongly nodose; third antennal joint perceptibly longer than
second, but not nearly twice as long, fourth as long as second and
third combined; face and front with much white hair; clypeus finely
rugose and dull; process of labrum broad, entire, dark; vertex with
a very large oval dark reddish tubercle, behind middle ocellus; pro-
thorax (except tubercles), mesothorax, scutellum, and mesopleura,
all dark red, postscutellum and metathorax black; mesothorax
coarsely and confluently punctured, scutellum with strong scattered
punctures; metathorax very coarsely sculptured, the area scarcely
defined, coarsely irregularly reticulate, with shining pits ; tegulae
pale brown, translucent, darker posteriorly; wings deep fuliginous,
with the base hyaline; legs black, with the anterior tibiae clear red
except the outer face, small joints of tarsi reddish; abdomen pol-
ished, with very fine sparse punctures, first two segments and base of
third dark red, the rest black, a moderate constriction between first
and second segments.
Ocala, Florida, October 24, 1919. Collector not given on label.
Type.— Cat. No. 24887. U.S.N.M.
Related to S. heraclel Eoberston, but very distinct by the red parts
of thorax, etc.
AUGOCHLORA FLORALIA Smith.
Female. — Described from the W. W. Saunders collection, in which
I found it. Hind spur pectinate; abdominal segments not vibrissate.
The British Museum has no specimens.
