14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAX, MUSEUM. vol. 60.
AUGOCHLORA LACUSTRIS, new species.
Female. — Length about 10.5 mm. ; head and thorax emerald green,
abdomen peacock green; hind spur pectinate; abdominal segments
not evidently vibrissate, the very fine and short hairs along margins
not true vibrissae; flagellum obscure reddish beneath; femora and
tibiae green, tarsi rufopiceous, not metallic; wings strongly duslry',
stigma dull reddish; second submarginal broad, square; first recur-
rent meeting second transverse cubitus. Very close to A. suiwptuosa
Smith (which I have from S. Florida, collected by Eobertson), but
larger, with a good deal of black hair on outer side of hind tibiae ;
area of metathorax longer, rounded instead of truncate behind;
middle of scutellum polished, with sparse punctures; nervures fus-
cous ; clypeus polished and sparsely punctured in middle. The broad
abdomen has the same peculiar texture as in sivniptuosa.
Lakeland, Florida, November 8, 1911 (F. 1753).
Type.— C&t. No. 24888, U.S.N.M.
AUGOCHLORA FLORIDICA, new epeeies.
Male. — Length 11-11.3 mm. ; brilliant bluish-green, the abdomen
shining, with splendid purple tints, especially the apical half, the
hind margins of segments not black; antennae entirely black; mandi-
bles dark reddish on outer side ; femora and tibiae green, tarsi becom-
ing rufescent ; wings dilute fuliginous ; stigma ferruginous, nervures
fuscous; first recurrent joining third submarginal near base. Face
and front hoary with dull whitish hair; mandibles with a green
patch at base; clypeus polished, convex, Avith strong separate punc-
tures; emargination of eyes shallow; angles of prothorax very dis-
tinct; mesothorax densely and quite coarsely punctured; scutellum
with a pair of impunctate spots, but these are microscopically rough-
ened ; area of metathorax well defined, truncate posteriorly, its sur-
face with weak flexuous rugae; tegulae entirely green; punctures
of abdomen very distinct, but not dense; venter rufo-piceous, with
strong purple luster on second and third segments ; margin of third
segment with a median point, that of fourth with a strongly produced
median angle, on each side of which the margin is concave. Tongue
hardly 1 mm. long.
Monticello, Florida, October 4 to 8, 1914, three males (3625, 3623,
3627).
Type.— Csit. No. 24889, U.S.N.M.
The form and coloration suggest the West Indian A. piscatona
Cockerell, but the structure of the abdominal venter is quite different.
We are also reminded of the Cuban A. magni^ca Cresson, but that
has hvaline wings and brownish tegulae.
