ART. 18. BEES IN THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM COCKERELL. 15
AUGOCHLORA ANONYMA, new species.
Female. — Length about 8.3 mm. ; splendid rich purple through-
out, on the legs as far as the base of the basitarsi; hind spur with
five long spines; flagellum very obscurely reddish beneath, more
distinctly at apex ; tarsi dull reddish ; tegulae purple, with a dark
red spot on outer side; wings dusky hyaline, stigma and nervures
ferruginous; first recurrent reaching basal end of third submar-
ginal. Mandibles obscurely reddened in middle and with a purple
spot at base; mesothorax dullish, rugose; area of meta thorax with-
out rugae; abdomen broad and shining, sparsely and indistinctly
punctured, the segments not vibrissate, surface thinly hairy ; venter
with last two segments dark reddish, the others steel blue.
No Name Key, Florida, March, 1898, three females (G. N. Collins
and C. L. Pollard).
Type.—Q2ii. No. 24890, U.S.N.M.
Very distinct by the magnificient purple color, combined with
the pectinate hind spur. It belongs to the group Sericei, but will
not run in Vachal's key, because the hind margins of the abdominal
segments are concolorous, metallic, and yet there is a transverse
groove behind the ocelli.
AUGOCHLORA MOSIERI, new Bpedea.
Female. — A little smaller than A. anonyma^ but with exactly the
same purple color, so that at first I thought it identical, until I
noticed that it belonged to the group Oxystoglossi, with the hind
spur not pectinate, and the basal area of raetathorax presented
strong wavy rugae. Antennae black; mandibles strongly bidentate,
chestnut-red in middle; eyes very strongly emarginate; mesothorax
dullish without strong punctures; anterior angles of prothorax
moderate; wings dark fuliginous, stigma black; knees, tibiae at
apex, and tarsi chestnut- red ; venter of abdomen piceous, not me-
tallic, the apical segment highly polished; tegulae dark rufous with
a metallic spot. The hind margins of the abdominal segments are
very narrowly black, as in A. alcyone Smith from S. Domingo.
Homestead, Florida, December 1, 17 (C. A. Mosier).
Type.— CQ.t. No. 24891, U.S.N.M.
AUGOCHLORA PALMARUM, new species.
Fem,ale. — (Type). Length 8 to 9 mm.; bluish-green, the clypeus
and supraclypeal area yellow-green, contrasting with front and
sides of face; antennae black; tegTilae ruf o-piceous ; first recurrent
meeting second transverse cubitus ; legs piceous, anterior femora steel-
blue behind, anterior and posterior (but not middle) coxae green;
hind spur not pectinate; abdomen shining, hind margins of seg-
3136— 22— Proc.N.M.Vol.60 40
