16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEl'M. vol. 60.
ments very narrowly blackened ; no A^brissae ; venter piceous, faintly
greenish on fourth segment. Yjjes deeply emarginate ; mandibles
dark; clypeus strongly rather closelj'^ punctured; mesothorax and
scutellum dullish, rugose; anterior angles of prothorax obtuse;
area of metathorax rather poorly defined, rugose, with fine striae
laterally; hair of hind tibiae entirely pale; abdomen without dis-
tinct punctures.
Male. — Length about 7.5 mm. ; more slender ; eyes strongly con-
verging below; mesothorax with disk polished and shining; area
of metathorax with very distinct striae; all the femora metallic;
ventral segments 3 to 5 strongly blue-green except broad hind mar-
gins, their margins simple, but last ventral with a weak longitudinal
carina. The wdngs are fuliginous.
Palm Beach, Florida, 3 females, 1 male, from the C. F. Baker
collection.
Type.— Csit No. 24892, U.S.N.M.
Belongs to the group Oxystoglossi, and is especiallj'- distinguished
by the dark wings, whereby it is easily known from the Floridian
A. matilda Kobertson, A. austrhia Robertson and A. f estiva Smith.
The head is much broader than in ^4. cyaneoviridis Ashmead, from
St. Vincent.
NOMADA ALBOFASCIATA Smith.
Male. — Oxbow, Saskatchewan, May, 1907 (F. Knab).
NOMADA MODESTA Cresson.
Female. — Form with yellow mark on mesopleura broken into two
spots.
Virginia Beach, Virginia, August 11, 1913 (F, Knab).
NOMADA MEXICANA Cresson.
Cresson described the female. A male from Mexico (Baker col-
lection 1785) is referred here with confidence. It differs from the
female thus: Clypeus with a large pale j'-ellow triangular patch,
occupying most of its surface ; posterior orbits entirely black ; meta-
thorax without spots, mesopleura with only one spot, a large one on
its posterior part; abdominal venter dark, without markings. The
apical plate of abdomen is entire, very obtuse, surrounded by dark
bristles.
NOMADA (HOLONOMADA) SUFFOSSA, new species.
Male. — Length about 12 mm. ; large and robust ; black, with chrome-
yellow markings and red legs; readily known by the greatly
swollen, oval scape of antennae. Head broad, facial quadrangle
about square ; mandibles massive, simple, the very broad base yellow,
the middle red, the apex black; the following are yellow, labrum,
\
