AKT. 18. BEES IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM COCKERELL. 17
clypeus, two spots in siipraclj^peal region, entire sides of face (ex-
cept black areas below antennae) up to antennae and pointed pro-
jection beyond along orbits; cheeks entirelj'^ black; scape red later-
ally and on inner face; third antennal joint clear red, contrasting
with the thick dark flagelliim, but joints 4 and 5 are red beneath;
joint 3 much longer than 4; mesothorax black, entirely' dull without
evident punctures, but under a microscope it is seen to be so closely
punctured as to be minutely cancellate ; scutellum with two very
large yellow spots, postscutellum with an interrupted band ; the fol-
lowing are yellow, upper border of prothorax (not reaching tuber-
cles), tubercles, subtriangular mark on mesopleura, nearh' all of
tegulae, marks on middle and hind coxae, pair of large transverse
marks on first abdominal segment, bands (broad at sides, narrow in
middle) on segments 2 to 4, and broad nearly even band on fifth
segment, as well as four spots on venter ; metathorax entirely black,
with pale hair ; wings strongly reddened, stigma rather small, bright
ferruginous, nervures dilute brown; basal nervure meeting trans-
verse median; first recurrent joining second submarginal about
middle ; anterior femora at base, and the others in large part, black ;
hind tibiae and basitarsi with some blackish; hind basitarsi thick-
ened; abdomen extremely densely and minutely punctured; apical
plate entire.
Mexico (C. F. Baker collection. 2320).
Type.— Cat No. 24893 U.S.N.M.
Very distinct from the previously described Mexican or Central
American species. In my key to the Rocky Mountain species it runs
nearest to N. superha Cresson, from which it is known by the bare
(instead of copiously hairy) mesothorax and pleura, and many othe*^
characters.
PERDITA SPHAERALCEAE ALTICOLA Cockcrell.
Female. — Pecos, New Mexico, August 17 (Wilmatte P. Cockerel!).
PERWTA RUFICAUDA Cockerell.
I described (1916) only the female. A female and two males were
collected by Dr. L. O. Howard at La Mesa, San Diego Countj^, Cali-
fornia, April 21, 1898. They differ a little from the type in that the
head is dark or bluish, not green. The male runs near P. chaiimeaara-
chae Cockerell in my tables ; it has the face marks lemon yellow, and
runs out because the dog-ear marks are present, but there is no supra-
clypeal mark. The abdomen is entirely clear red.
PERDITA ZEBRATA Cresson.
Female. — Helena, Montana, August 9, 1919. Collector unknown.
Described from Colorado.
