18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
PERDITA SEMICAERULEA Cockerell.
Five females; Sanderson, Texas. May 9, 1912 (J. S. Mitchell).
These are identical with the typical insect of New Mexico.
PERDITA MACROSTOMA, new species.
Male. — (Type). Length a little over 6 nun.; robust, with extremely
broad head, the eyes diverging below ; head and thorax with thin but
conspicuous dull white hairs ; head dark blue, the front dull, cheeks
shining; cheeks unarmed; clypeus extremely broad and low, with
lateral extensions to base of the simple mandibles; clypeus (except a
pair of dots), labrum, mandibles (except apically), minute supra-
clypeal line and small dog-ear marks, and lateral face marks, all cream
color; lateral marks transversely cuneiform, w^ith the apex (mesad)
obtuse, and the lower outer angle acute; scape cream color in front,
black behind; flagellum clear ferruginous beneath, dark brown above;
mesothorax shining dark bluish green, metathorax blue, pleura blue ;
no light markings on thorax ; tegulae pale testaceous ; wings perfectly
clear, margin of stigma and nervures dilute sepia ; stigma large; mar-
ginal cell oblique at end ; legs brown-black, with anterior knees, tibiae
and basitarsi in front pale reddish-cream ; anterior tarsi and middle
and hind knees more or less pale ; abdomen ferruginous, polished, the
apex broadly bilobed ; color of abdomen ferruginous, the first segment
brown except apically, the second and third with indistinct, suffused,
yellowish bands, and all the segments with suggestions of dusky sub-
lateral spots.
Female. — Length about 7 mm., differing at once from the male in
that the abdomen is dark brown, with narroAvly interrupted cream-
colored bands on segments 2 to 5, those on 2 and 3 produced down-
ward (caudad) at base, becoming pistol-shaped, but not united; head
not nearly so broad as in male; mandibles rufo-testaceous, dark at
apex; labrum and clypeus reddish -Jjrown, the latter with a plow-
shaped cream-colored mark at each side ; no supraclypeal or dog-ear
marks, but transverse lateral marks, concave above; scape black;
flagellum pale rufo-testaceous beneath.
Los Angeles County, California, May, four of each sex (Coquil-
lett).
Type.— C^t. No. 24894, U.S.N.M.
In my key ® the male runs to 7, except for the simple mandibles ;
it falls nearest to P. latior Cockerell, which also has the abdomen dif-
ferently colored in the sexes, but differs at once by the large stigma.
The female runs to P. verbesinae Cockerell, but the head and wings
are quite different. There is some resemblance to P. aureoviUoia
Cockerell, but that differs greatly in the marking of the abdomen.
• Proc. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1S96, p. 45.
