ART. 18, BEES IN THE NATIONAL. MUSEUM COCKERELL. 19
The female sometimes has a light median spot on the upper part of
the clypeus.
PERDITA DINOGNATHA, new species.
Male. — Length about or nearly 5 mm. ; very broad ; head extremely
broad, dull dark olive-green, orbits diverging below ; pubescence on
head and thorax dull white, thin and rather short, but distinct;
mandibles very long and curved, simple, rufo-testaceous, with dark
apex ; labrum pale ; clypeus broad and low, forming an arched band,
entirely pale reddish-testaceous; a minute transverse mark beneath
each eye, but no other lateral marks; no dog-ear or supraclypeal
marks, but a faint pale supraclypeal shade ; cheeks simple ; antennae
black; thorax black, with the metathorax dark blue; mesothorax
dull; tegulae testaceous; wings millcy hyaline; stigma narrow-lanceo-
late, pale yellowish-testaceous, nervures very pale; legs black, the
tarsi becoming reddish, anterior tibiae pallid in front ; abdomen very
broad, shining dark reddish-brown, without markings.
San Diego County, California, April (Coquillett).
Type.— Cvit. No. 24895, U.S.N.M.
In my key runs to 52, but runs out on account of the lack of lateral
face marks. The stigma recalls that of P. latior. The abdomen is
redder than that of P. grandiceps Cockerell.
PERDITA HAPLUKA, new species.
Female. — Length about 5 mm., robust, with broad abdomen; pleura
with much white hair, but mesothorax nearly bare ; head transverse,
but not remarkably broad, orbits converging below; color of head
dark bluish-green, most evident on front, which is shining but not
polished; no face markings, clypeus and supraclypeal region black;
mandibles with a conspicuous red subapical spot; scape black, reddish
at extreme base; mesothorax dullish, black, anteriorly strongly
brass}'; pleura, scutellum and postscutellum black, but metathorax
steel-blue or slightly greenish-blue ; tegulae testaceous ; wings milky-
hyaline, stigma and nervures reddish-white ; stigma lanceolate, mar-
ginal cell very oblique at apex ; legs black, anterior knees dark red-
dish ; abdomen dullish black, faintly aeneous at bases of segments,
hind margins of segments colorless.
Sanderson, Texas, May 9, 1912 (J. S. Mitchell).
Type.—Q^t. No. 24896, U.S.N.M.
Evidently related to P. texana (Cresson), but separable b}' the
metallic colors on head and thorax. The male probablj' has a rufous
abdomen.
PERDITA LUCIAE Cockerell.
Male. — Tacna, Arizona (H. G. Hubbard). Named after Miss
Lucy Howard.
