99
PE0CEEDIXG5 OF THE XATIOXAL, MUSEUIM,
VOL. 66
POLTCRASE.
A sample of " oversize " coarse sand from Centerville contains
abundant grains and rough crystals of a dark-brownish or greenish-
black mineral not very different in appearance from the samarskite.
The crystals, which reach 1 cm. in diameter, are orthorhombic in
aspect and vary from square prismatic to thin tabular. They are all
coated with an exterior crust of a pale-yellow alteration product.
Within this shell the crystals and grains consist of a brownish-black
glassy material having a conchoidal fracture and a brown streak.
Under the microscope thin fragments are transparent, isotropic, and
brown in color. The mineral is intensely radioactive. Mr. Frank
L. Hess had previously recognized this or a similar mineral in placer
gravels from Centerville. and recently has turned his sample over to
the present writer for chemical investigation,
which it is hoped may yet be undertaken. The
properties and appearance of the mineral are
identical in most respects with the polycrase
from Marietta County, X. C. and for the present
it will be referred to that mineral. This mineral,
recognizable by its light-colored coating, occurs
sparingly also in the samarskite and columbite
bearing concentrates from Idaho City. A crystal
from this lot gave measurements on the pinacoids
and on two pyramid faces indicating roughly the
form s(lll) of polycrase. The remaining faces
were coated. The form and appearance of this
crystal, which was tabular, are shown in the drawing (fig. 22) . There
was, as shown in the figure, a smaller crystal in parallel position pro-
jecting from the face of the larger individual.
OTHER RARE-EARTH MINERALS.
In addition to the rare earth minerals described above under the
headings " samarskite," " columbite,*' and " polycrase," it is probable
that a nmnber of others occur in lesser amount in the sands. In
the columbite-samarskite material certain glassy to resinous grains
without crystal form gave light-brown internal reflections and had
a light-brown streak, while other grains gave green internal reflec-
tions and fragments were brownish green under the microscope.
These may include euxenite and yttrotantalite or possibly ferguson-
ite. One small crystal which was noted under the microscope ap-
peared to have the tetragonal form and pyramidal hemihedrism of
fergusonite. In the polycrase-bearing sand from Centerville, in ad-
dition to the abundant polycrase, there are occasional grayish iron-
black tetragonal crystals having dull faces, which may be one of
Fig. 22. — Cetstal or
POLICEASE (?) FEOM
IDAHO CITT.
