AET. 3. BLACK SAXDS FEOM IDAHO SHAXXOX. 23
the minerals related to tapiolite. Other grains appeared to be much
worn isometric crystals of a brownish-gray color, resembling micro-
lite or pj^rochlore. When all the recognizable rare-earth minerals
had been picked out of a sample of this sand, the residue was found
to still be radioactive and to contain heavy opaque gray-black grains
with submetallic luster.
PYRITE.
Unaltered pyrite was seen only as one or two grains in one sand,
but jDseudomorphs preserving the crystal form of pyrite perfectly
are present in greater or less number in almost every sample of sand
examined. These are often deceptively lustrous and black in color,
with polished faces, but occasional particles in each sand are
brownish in color or have an ocherous external coating. Most of the
pseudomorphs consist of limonite, as is shown by their brown streak,
but a few are attracted by a magnet and consist wholly or in part of
magnetite. The forms exhibited by these pyrite pseudomorphs are
cubes, or cubes with the corners truncated by octahedral planes in the
majority of the sands, but those in monazite sand from Centerville
are octahedral and are frequently much elongated and distorted.
The most complex forms occur in the titanite and allanite bearing
sand from Bear Creek. In this sand the altered pyrite crystals,
which are abundant, show combinations of the cube, octahedron, and
pentagonal dodecahedron, with possibly other forms. They would be
exceedingly hard to identify by form alone were it not for the
presence on all of them of the higlily characteristic striations and
grooves produced by oscillation between the cube and the pyrito-
hedron. Altered pyrite crystals are sparingly present in all of the
fine sands from Snake River and are very abundant in some of the
coarser sands of the Boise Basin region.
ALLANITE.
Allanite was positively identified only in a sand from Bear Creek,
in Camas County, although crystals of the same form and habit
were noted in small number in several other sands, especially those
from Minidoka and other Snake River localities. This mineral is
difficult to distinguish by its form from certain prismatic black
crystals of hornblende which occur occasionally. The Camas County
sand consisted largely of magnetite, which, when extracted with a
magnet, left a light-colored residue consisting mainly of irregular
fragments of quartz. Scattered through this residue were crystals
of titanite, zircon, garnet, etc.. together with small black prisms
with wedge-shaped terminations, which resembled augite crystals.
One of these crystals upon being measured on the goniometer gave
