ART. 3. BLACK SANDS FROM IDAHO SHAjSTNON. 29
flakes of gold are of frequent occurrence in sands from Rosa, Bing-
ham County, and less abundantly so in other Snake River sands
from Wapi and Minidoka. Small rounded grains of a deep yellow
color were noted in the nonmagnetic residue of a sand from Bear
Creek, in Camas County. An " oversize " sample of coarse material
from Centerville, consisting of pebbles of garnet, granular magne-
tite, irregular ilmenite, and several radioactive uranium minerals
contained several slightly worn rusty quartz pebbles containing abun-
dant pale-colored gold.
CYANITE.
While not properly a mineral of the heavy sands, cyanite was seen
as grayish-blue blades in a rusty granular quartz matrix in one
pebble from an unscreened sand from Snake River at Minidoka.
EPIDOTE.
Epidote may occur sparingly in some of the sands examined, being
similar in appearance to augite and olivine, from which it could not
be distinguished by its appearance alone. Pebbles of pale-green epi-
dote in massive granular form were noted in the coarser portion of
sand from Rosa, Bingham County, associated with pebbles of sim-
ilarly fine-grained brown garnet, both evidently being fragments of
a metamorphic hornfels.
CINNABAR.
Cinnabar occurs sparingly in a sand from Pierce City, which con-
sists largely of ilmenite in brilliant black grains and also contains
rutile, monazite, and zircon. The cinnabar is deep red in color with
a grayish metallic cast. The majority of the grains are rounded
pebbles of fine granular, massive cinnabar, but many of them are
more or less transparent fragments of single cinnabar crystals and a
few are crystals bounded by imperfect faces which could not be
identified. It seems probable that much of the cinnabar of the orig-
inal gravel was in larger masses which were eliminated by screening.
The United States National Museum collections contain pebbles of
impure massive cinnabar up to 1 inch in diameter from a placer near
Resort. Small rounded grains of cinnabar were noted in small
number in the polycrase-bearing sand from Centerville.
LIST OF LOCALITIES AND COMPOSITIONS OF HEAVY SANDS EX-
AMINED.
The following list gives the locality', average size of grain, and.
chief minerals of the 52 sands from Idaho localities which were ex-
amined during the course of the present work. Each sand is as-
31.S6— 22— I'roc.N.M.Vol.CO 7
