NORTH AMERICAN ICHNEUMON-FLIES OF THE
GENERA CLISTOPYGA AND SCHIZOPYGA.^
By R. A. CUSHMAN,
Of the Bureau of Entomology, United States Department of Agriculture.
In a recent paper under joint authorship of the present writer
and S. A. Rohwer reviewing Hellen's revision of the Pimplinae*
the authors revised their previous placing ^ of the genus Schisopyga
Gravenhorse to the extent of admitting it to the subfamily Ichneu-
moninae, but expressing no opinion as to which of the tribes recog-
nized by themselves it should be referred to. In their own revision
of the tribes ^ (p. 392) they referred Clistopyga Gravenhorst to the
tribe Ichneumonini.
Subsequent study of these two genera has convinced them* that
both should be referred to the Polysphinctini. Since the tribal keys
in the paper cited were written with the idea of excluding both
genera from this tribe, neither will run there, though it was realized
at the time that Clistopyga would undoubtedly cause trouble at this
point. In order to make the two genera fall in the Polysphinctini in
the classification of Cushman and Rohwer, it is necessary to revise
couplets 5 and 8 of the " Key to tribes based on females " ^ (pp. 388-
391) and couplets 2 and 12 of the "Key to tribes "^ (pp. 391-392).
The keys thus revised are given below.
KEY TO TRIBES BASED ON FEMALES.
1. Ovipositor with a dorsal notch a short distance back from apex; (internal parasites
of Lepidopterous larvae), fig. 1 2.
Ovipositor mthont piirh a notch 3.
s^
FiG.l.— Apices of ovipositors: a, Gltpta simplicipes Cresson; 6, Lampronota Americana Ckesson;
c, Arenetra ntgrita Walsh; i, Meniscus scutellaris Cresson; e, Cylloceria lugubri.^ Cresson;
/, Lampronota frigida Cresson; ^, Lissonota verberans Gravenhorst; /, Ameesibia prionoxy
sTi Rohwer.
' This paper is supplementary to the writer's revision of the tribe Polysphictini as
published in Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 58, 1920, pp. 13—38, and is the sixth in the
series of papers by the present writer and S. A. Rohwer dealing with the Nortb American
species of the subfamily Ichneumoninae (Pimplinae of Ashmead).
2 Cushman, R. A., and Rohwer, S. A., Ins. Mens., vol. 8, 1920, pp. 161-164.
"Cushman, R. A., and Rohwer, S. A., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 57, 1920, p. 396.
* The third person pronoun is used here with the approval of Mr. Rohwer.
» Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 57.
No. 2399— Proceedings U. S. National Museum, Vol. 60, Art. 4.
1
