PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM.
VOL. 60.
2. Tergites without oblique furrows Lissonotini.
Tergites with oblique furrows extending from basal middle to near apical
margin - Glyptini.
3. Tarsal claws pectinate; apex of ovipositor spear-head like; (parasites of Lepidop-
terous larvae), fig. 2 4.
Fig. 2.— Apices of ovipositoks: a, Toxophokides albomakginata (Cresson); 6, Phytodietus buegessi
Ceesson. Hind taesal claw: c, Phytodietus buegessi Ceesson.
Tarsal claws simple or with a large basal tooth or lobe, fig. 3.
fiQ. 3.— Hind taesal claws: a, Itoplectis conquis-
ITOE (Say); 6, Ichneumon ieeitatoe Fabricius.
Fig. 4.— Apex of female ab-
domen of Toxophoroides
albomarginata (cres.son)
(A-hypopygidium.)
4. Tergites 1-4 with oblique and apical transverse furrows and strongly sculptured;
sou tellum margined laterally; hypopygium heavily chitinized and extending
to or beyond apex of abdomen, fig. 4 Lycorini.
Tergites without furrows and polished; scutellum not margined; hypopygium
neither especially heavily chitinized nor prominent Phj^odietini.
5. Ovipositor short, never more than half as long as abdomen, compressed
(rarely subcircular in cross-section), tapering from base to the acutely
pointed apex and usually with a more or less distinct swelling below at
or near the middle, straight or curved upward ; clypeus convex, rounded
or at most truncate at apex, rarely apically impressed and very rarely
confluent with face; last tarsal joint, claws, and onychia usually lai;ge,
all claws with basal tooth; face narrow and usually convergent below;
mandibles narrow at apex, bidentate or edentate, in the former case
usually with upper tooth longer than lower, in the latter case with a
broad spoon-like inner flange; areolet only rarely defined (so far as known
external parasites on spiders), fig. 5 Polysphinctini.
Fig. 5.— Apices of ovipositors: o.Polysphincta teiana Cresson; b, Hymenoepimects wiltu (Crep
son); Mandible: e, Hymenoepimects wn-To (Cresson).
