ABT. 4. GENERA CLISTOPYGA AND SCHIZOPYGA CUSHMAN. 5
2. Mandibles edentate or with a much shorter entodoreal tooth; first tergite petiolate,
spiracles before middle; areolet usually wanting; thorax depressed, meeopleura
distinctly longer than high; head subquadrate; notauli complete or nearly so.
Xoridini.
Mandibles usually bidentate apically with teeth subequal or upper tooth
longer, rarely edentate in which case the inner margin is provided with
a broad spoon-like flange 3.
3. Occipital carina wanting or interrupted medially; mesoscutum and scutellum
transversely rugose throughout; abdomen inserted rather high on propodeum,
occasionally far above insertion of hind coxae; first tergite with spiracles before
middle and shorter than or subequal to second, which is parallel-sided.
Ehyssini.
Occipital carina complete; mesocutum and scutellum not transversely rugose, at
most the mesoscutum partially ruguluse 4.
4. Abdomen distinctly compressed in apical third or half, (deeper than broad).
Acoenitini.
Abdomen not distinctly compressed 5.
5. Abdomen petiolate; head subcubical, swollen below antennae, not, or scarcely,
narrowing behind eyes; eyes small and placed well forward, cephalo-candad
length of posterior orbits longer than or subequal to that of eye; thorax and
propodeum depressed, the latter very long dorsally, short posteriorly; legs,
especially the femora, stout; areolet wanting Odontomerinl.
Not entirely as above, though rarely agreeing with one or two characters 6.
6. Tergites, at least 2-4, with oblique furrows which converge anteriorly until they
approximate in the dorsal middle 7 ,
Tergites without such furrows 8.
7. Tergites 1-5 in male, 1^ in female, with apical transverse impressions which
together with oblique impressions set off a median, transverse, sub-triangular
area; malar furrow present; first tergite with dorsal carinae short; scutellum
carinate laterally to apex; intercubitus nearly or quite twice as long as second
abscissa of cubitus; nervellus strongly inclivous Lycorini.
First tergite without either oblique or transverse impressions, and with dorsal
carinae extending beyond middle; other tergites usually without transverse
apical furrows; ® scutellum not carinate laterally; intercubitus not nearly
twice as long as second abscissa of cubitus; nervellus reclivous, perpendicular,
or slightly inclivous Glyptini.
8. Tergites beyond first without either furrows, depressions, or elevated areas; dorsal
carinae of first tergite defined at most only very briefly at base (in difficult
species the spiracles of first tergite are very close to the base), mesoscutum
anteriorly usually with a cuneiform pale spot on each side 9.
Tergites beyond first with more or less distinct elevated areas, depressions, or fur-
rows or combinations of some or all of these factors; dorsal carinae of first tergite
distinct and setting off a distinct basal concave area (in the very rare difficult
species the spiracle of the first tergite is far from the base) 10.
9. Propodeum entirely without carinae; claws strongly ctirved, with few (about 6)
very long, closely set teeth; entire body smooth, at most very minutely punc-
tate Phytodietini.
Propodeum usually with at least an apical transverse carina, rarely without carinae ;
claws long, weakly curved and if pectinate the teeth are smaller, more numer-
ous, or sparsely set; at least the thorax dorsally and propodeum distinctly
sculptured Lissonotini.
' None of the North American Glyptini have the transverse furrows, but the South
American genus Zaglyptomorpha Viereck has them on tergites 2-5. This genus, however,
has none of the other characters of the Lycorini.
