6 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60.
10. Propodeal spiracle slit-like, the surrounding carina prominent, separated from the
anterior margin of the propodeum by less than its length; notauli subparallel,
ending abruptly posteriorly; body smooth and shining, mostly bright ferru-
ginous or yellow; propodeal carinae very strong and high Theroniini.
Propodeal spiracle round or elongate the surrounding carinae not prominent,
removed from the anterior margin of the propodeum by at least its length',
notauli obsolete or converging posteriorly; usually sculptured and dark colored,
occasionally ferruginous or polished, but rarely both; propodeal carinae obso-
lete or weak, at least not very high and strong 11.
11. Notauli weak or absent; or if very strong and complete they are deep and pitlike
anteriorly and set off by a sharp carina that runs back along the lateral margin
of the mesoscutum;^ head set very close to prescutum; mesopleural furrow
straight or curved but not angulate opposite the punctiform fovea. ..Ephialtini.
Notauli usually deep, at least anteriorly; the anterior margin of the mesoscutum
distinctly trilobed; head, by reason of the longer pronotum, set off from the
prescutum; mesopleural furrow angulate opposite punctiform fovea 12-
12. Notauli strongly impressed throughout, prescutum very prominent (if notauli
are not strongly impressed, as in Hymenoepimecis, the preecutum is neverthe-
less very prominent and the other characters are especially well marked);
temples flat or slightly convex, sloping to the strong occipital carina; face
converging below and at least as long as wide at clypeus, the latter convex or
slightly flattened, usually rounded at apex and with a reflexed margin, rarely
(Hymenoepimecis) very weakly, broadly emarginate, never medially impressed
or inflesed ; mandibles narrow at apex, bidentate or edentate, iu the
former case usually with upper tooth longer than lower, in the latter case
with a broad spoonlike inner flange ; scutellum elevated and compressed
from the sides; areolet very rarely defined Polysphinctini.
Notauli rarely complete, weakly impressed posteriorly, prescutum not especially
prominent; temples usually strongly rounded, very rarely flat, less
sharply sloping; face usually wider than long; clypeus usually medially
impressed and emarginate at apex, sometimes inflexed and truncate or
very weakly emarginate ; teeth of mandibles subequal in length ; scu-
tellum broad, convex, or flattened ; areolet usually complete, occasionally
wanting or incomplete - Ichneumonini.
The present writer's key to the genera of the Polysphinctini ^
will have to be modified for the inclusion of these two genera as
follows :
KEY TO GENERA.
A. Clypeus not separated from face; mandibles edentate with a broad, spoon-
like flange internally (fig. 14) ; ovipositor barely exserted.
Schizopyga Gravenhorst.
Fig. 14. — Head or Schizopyga frigida CnEssoN, uf.ah and front view : a, Gnuir.
StJBMENTAL-MENTAL REGION ; b, CARDO AND STIPES OF MAXILLA ; C, LABIUM ; d, LABIAL
PALPUS ; e, MANDIBLE ; /, LOBE OR MALA Or MAXILLA ; (?. MAXILLARY PALPUS.
' None of the Holarctic genera have the notauli strong, the goncra in which they are
strong being principally oriental.
» Cushman, R. A., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 58, 1920, pp. 16-17.
