ART. 4. GENERA CLISTOPYGA AND SCHIZOPYGA CUSHMAN. 7
Clypeus separated from face : mandibles bidentate, without a flange
internally ; ovipositor distinctly esserted B.
B. Eyes parallel or nearly, face not convergent below and wider tlian long ;
clypeus truncate and flattened or impressed at apex; mandibles with
teeth subequal ; ovipositor curved upward, weakly compressed or sub-
cylindrical ; hypopygium reaching nearly or quite to apex of abdomen.
Clistopyga Gravenhorst.
Eyes convergent below, face as long as wide at clypeal foveae ; clypeus
either rounded or truncate at apex, but never impressed ; ovipositor
straight, compressed ; hypopygium retracted 1.
1. For remainder of key see Proceedings of the United States National Museum,
vol. 58, 1920, pp. 16-17.
Genus SCHIZOPYGA Gravenhorst.
Schizopyga Gbavenhoest, Ichn. Eur., vol. 3, 1S29, p. 12-5. Genotype —
ScMzopyga podagrica Gravenhorst.
Very anomalous in its head characters, this genus agrees in most
particulars T\^ith the more normal forms of the Polj'sphinctini, The
form of the ovipositor, the tuberculate tergites, the deep and com-
plete notauli, the swollen femora and apical tarsal joints, the dentate
clavv^s in the female, and the venation differ very little from those
of the typical Pohvsphinctine.
The very peculiar head has the face long, flat, elevated above the
level of the eye-margins, and completely fused with the clypeus,
which is truncately rounded at apex. The mandibles are as de-
scribed above, while the lobe, or mala, of maxilla is very large, almost
quadrate, and when at rest lies beneath and against the mandibles
meeting its fellow along the median line. The calcaria are very
stout with a small apical spine-like process.
SCHIZOPYGA FRIGIDA Cresson.
Schizopyga frigida Cresson, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, vol. 3, 1870, p. 159.
Type.— Cat. No. 1468, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.
Discussion based on a female homotjq^e (Rohwer) from Mount
Washington, New Hampshire, and another female from Ames, Iowa.
The Mount Washington specimen has the hind tibiae and tarsi more
extensively black than in the Iowa specimen and the coxae are
piceous. Cresson's type is from Hudson Bay Territory.
Genus CLISTOPYGA Gravenhorst.
Clistopyga Gravenhokst, Ichn. Europ., vol. 3, 1829, p. 132. Genotype. —
IcJmeiimon inciiator Fabricius.
Readily distinguished from the other genera of the tribe by the
parallel and practically nonemarginate eyes, the short hind tibiae,
which never exceed the femora very greatly in length, and, in the
female, the large hypopygium and upcurved ovipositor.
Ashmead's translation of Foerster's character for separating this
genus from Polysfhincta^ etc., conveys exactly the opposite idea from
that intended by Foerster. The ventral borders of the terminal
