8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, vol.60.
tergites are farther separated than normal instead of inclosing the
" terminal urites." However, Foerster's method of expressing the
character is awkward. A specimen of the genotype, Clistofyga inci-
tatoT (Fabricius), determined by Roman, has the hypopygium promi-
nent but not extending far beyond the apex of the abdomen and not
inclosed by the tergites; the claws are not pectinate, as stated by
Ashmead, but are strongly toothed basally; the ovipositor is up-
curved. The females of all the other species studied agree in all of
these characters. In some species the male has the lower cheek
deeply impressed and highly polished, the impression flanked on the
outer side by a high, sharp ridge. This last has been referred to by
Schmiedeknecht ^ and by Morley " as a generic character.
Biological records concerning the members of this genus are con-
flicting. Among the specimens examined are only two such records.
The types of one of the new species described below are said to have
been reared from a "spider nest," and a male of another new species
labeled " Hopkins U. S. No, 13334A " is said to have been found as
an adult in the burrow of Calo'pus angustus LeConte in Pinus mur-
rayana at Yosemite National Park. Cllsto'pyga incitator (Fabricius)
of Europe is said by Brischke to have been reared from Retinia
resinana, while Morley quotes records of its having been reared
from " beech infested with Anol)ii and Ptilinus pectinicornis " and
from galls of Cynips kollari. The " spider nest " mentioned above
accompanied the specimens, but unfortunately whether it was an
Qig^ sac or the retreat on an adult spider could not be determined
because of its condition. It seems likely that the records associat-
ing species of the genus with other than spiders have resulted from
the place of abode of a spider host.
The seven North American species are very readily distinguished
by the characters used in the following table. So fcAv males are
available for study that this table is based only on females, with
male characters given where specimens of that sex are at hand. The
first character used, the comparative length of hind tarsi and tibiae,
can not, as worded, be applied to males, the orbital character being
better used for that sex.
TABLE TO SPECIES.
1. Posterior tarsi nearly twice as long as tlieir tibiae, the latter distinctly
shorter than their femora ; yellow orbital ring strong and extending unin-
terrupted to beyond top of eye 2
Posterior tarsi not nearly twice as long as their tibiae, the latter subequal to
or slightly longer than their femora ; yellow orbital ring incomplete or
absent 3
2. Hind and middle tibiae blackish with whitish annulus, first four joints of
their tarsi blaclvish with white basal ring ; propodeum with a median
longitudinal furrow recurva (Say).
' Opusc. Ichn., vol. 3, p. 1174. '"Brit. Ichn., vol. 3, p. 138.
