AKT. 4. GENERA C1J:ST0PYGA AND SCHIZOPYGA CUSHMAN. 9
Hind tibiae and tarsi practically concolorous with their femora, the tibiae
obsoletely annulated, the tarsi pale and not annulated ; propodeum
without longitudinal furrow pulchripicta Ashmead.
3. Thorax more or less red below; orbital ring indicated at least by yellow
marks at sides of face and above eyes 4
Thorax entirely black ; face black without markings ; orbital ring entirely or
practically wanting, being sometimes represented by a very minute indis-
tinct reddish spot at top of eye and in male at sides of face 6
4. First tergite elevated in middle, the carinae sti'ong nearly to apex; meso-
pleural furrow crenulate above; mesoscutum black; ovipositor stout,
uniformly curved maculifrons, new species.
First tergite flattened above, carinae obsolete beyond summit; mesopleural
furrow not crenulate ; mesoscutum more or less red ; ovipositor slender,
straight to beyond middle 5
5. Frescutum black; orbital ring represented by three yellow spots, two at
top of eye and one just below antenna; propodeum polished, sparsely
punctate nigrifrons, new species.
Frescutum red, the mesoscutum with a median black spot flanked on either
side by a yellow spot ; orbital ring complete from vertex to malar space,
cheek also yellow; propodeum anteriorly transversely punctate-striate.
manni, new species.
6. Propodeum with distinct median carinae ; ovipositor sheath much less than
twice as long as first tergite ; hind tibia in female not longer than femur ;
cheek in male deeply impressed, the impression flanked on the outside
by a strong carinate tubercule canadensis Frovancher.
Fropodeum without median carina or impression ; ovipositor sheath very
nearly twice as long as first tergite, the ovipositor very slender, strongly
compressed and very attenuate at apex ; hind tibia in female longer than
femur; cheek of male normal atrata, new species.
CLISTOPYGA RECURVA (Say).
Anomalon rccurvus Say, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. 1, 1835, p. 243. (LeConte
ed., vol. 2, p. 698). Type.— Lost.
Clistopyga annuUpes Cresson, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, vol. 3. 1870, p. 150.
Type.—l<io. 1443, Acad. Nat. Sci. Fhila.
Clistopyga recurva (Say), Cushman and Gahan, Froc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vol.
23, 1921, p. 157. Neotype in U. S. N. M.
Discussion based on notes on Cresson's type, a neotype designated
by Cushman and Gahan, and other material.
This, the most abundant North American species of the genus
exhibits in the most marked degree the peculiar characters of the
genus. The eyes are very widely separated, inwardly parallel and
barely emarginate; the orbital maculation very strong; the thorax
fully twice as long as high, with the posterior margin of the meso-
pleurum extremely oblique, and the propodeum very long, gently
sloping, and without carniae; the abdomen long and slender; the
first tergite flattened above with the carinae obsolete beyond the
summit; the hind tibiae distinctly shorter than their femora and
barely half as long as their tarsi.
There is considerable variation in both size and color. The fe-
males are from 8 to 12 mm. long, with ovipositor from 1.75 to 2 mm.
long. The yellow markings are fairly constant except on the face,
