10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.60,
this varying from yellow with a narrow median stripe and the clypeal
suture brownish to entirely brownish except the orbits and a small
spot below each antenna. The thorax, except for the usual yellow
markings, varies from entirely black with faint reddish reflections
on the mesosternum to distinctly reddish both below and above, with
the scutellum especially bright, and with a distinct whitish mark
on each side of the middle of the mesoscutum. The tergites are
frequently very narrowly edged with white though sometimes en-
tirely black. The hind tibiae are usually very dark fuscous but
occasionally pale fuscous, and the extent of dark color on the tarsal
joints varies widely.
The only male that I have seen is 5.5 mm. long. It has the mesocu-
tum and mesopleura and metapleura red, the face entirely yellow,
the front and middle legs white except faint indications of tibial and
tarsal annulations, the hind coxae stramineous, the trochanters and
the femora outside (largely) white; the tibiae and tarsi colored as
in female but the white somewhat more extensive. The cheeks are
normal. The hind tibiae are about as long as the femora and first
trochanter joint together and about equal in length to the first four
tarsal joints. The abdomen is very slender and parallel sided with
the first tergite twice as long as wide at apex and the others only
about three-fourths as wide as long.
Say's type was from Indiana and Cresson's from Massachusetts.
Other specimens are from Anglesea, New Jersey (F. Haimbach) ;
Washington, District of Columbia (F. C. Pratt) ; Falls Church, Vir-
ginia (N, Banks) ; Ocean View, Virginia (A. N. Caudell) {neotype) ;
Ealeigh, North Carolina; Mississippi; Texas (Belfrage).
CLISTOPYGA PULCHRIPICTA Ashmead.
CUstopyga pulchripicta Ashmead, Prcc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 12, 1890,
p. 448, female. Type.— Cat. No, 2114, U. S. N. M.
Discussion based on type.
That portion of Ashmead's description referring to the oblique
grooves is misleading. The grooves are not analogous to those of
Glypta but are far down on the sides and are not especially con-
spicuous.
This species is very closely allied to if not synonymous with
recurva (Say), most of the distinguishing characters observed
being incorporated in the table to species. In addition the nervellus
is broken somewhat higher up and the thorax is largely red. All of
these characters are variable in recurva.
The only known specimen is the type, which is from Texas,
CLISTOPYGA MACULIFRONS, new species.
This species is very distinct from either of the previously de-
scribed North American species {Clistopyga recurva (Say), Clisto-
