ART. 4. GENERA CLISTOPYGA AND SCHIZOPYGA CUSHMAN. 11
'pyga pulchripicta Aslimead, and Clistopyga canadensis Provancher),
but structurally is more closely allied to canadensis Provancher than
to either of the others or the following two new species.
Female.— h^ngih. 6.5 mm., antennae (broken), ovipositor 1.6 mm.
Head with temples slightly convex, polished, impunctate behind the
eyes, f rons sparsely, face densely punctate ; face slightly wider than
long; malai space nearly as long as basal width of mandible; ocelli
arranged in a nearly equilateral triangle, the postocellar and ocello-
cular lines equal and about one and one-half times greatest diameter
■ of a lateral ocellus ; thorax not especially long, arched above, weakly
and sparsely punctate laterally and ventrally, somewhat more
densely and strongly so above, especially the propodeum, on which
transverse aciculation and punctation are mingled, and which has
two very short carinae above, subtending a median groove; pro-
podeum strongly arched; mesopleural furrow crenulate above; hind
tibia very slightly longer than the femur and nearly three- fourths as
long as the tarsus, the basal joint of which is equal to the second and
third together; nervellus broken about one-third above the brachi-
ella; abdomen finely, deeply, densely punctate; first tergite with
dorsal carinae extending nearly to apex, the area between polished,
laterally with a rather distinct oblique impression apically and a
low nearly circular elevation; tergites 2-5 with basal oblique and
apical transverse impressions setting off strong elevations ; tergites
2-6 successively, gradually shorter, 7 and 8 retracted, 8 with an
upturned apical rim; ovipositor rather stout and uniformly up-
curved.
Piceous black with mesosternum and pleura and metapleura tes-
taceous; tegulae, pronotum narrowly above, clypeus, a stripe below
each antenna, inner orbit below, a spot on upper orbit, scape, and
basal flagellar joint below, yelloAvish white; legs generally testaceous
with front coxae, front and middle trochanters, a more or less distinct
annulus on each tibia and basal portion of first three joints of all
tarsi whitish ; other portions of tibiae and tarsi more or less infus-
cated the color on the hind legs being nearly black; wings hyaline,
veins fuscous, whitish at base.
Type locality. — Texas.
Type.—Q^t. No. 20058, U.S.N.M.
CLISTOPYGA NIGRIFRONS, new species.
Differs from maculifrons Cushman, principally as follows :
Feviale. — Length 7.0 mm. ; antennae (broken) ; ovipositor 1.4 mm.
Head less strongly punctate, the front entirely impunctate; malar
space fully as long as basal width of mandible ; postocellar line about
a half longer than ocellocular line, the latter about equal to greatest
diameter of a lateral ocellus; thorax polished and practically im-
3138— 22— Proc.N.M. Vol.60 8
