12 PROCEEDIlSrGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol.60.
punctate below, very sparsely, weakly so above ; mesopleural furrow
not crenulate ; propodeum barely arched, polished behind and medi-
ally at base, without carinae but with a weak median furrow ; punc-
tation, impressions, and elevations of tergites weak, the first tergite
practically noncarinate, the carinate flattened beyond the anterior
angles; ovipositor shorter, more slender and tapering, and less
strongly curved.
Face black except for minute reddish spot below each antenna and
an orbital spot opposite these; upper orbits narrowly yellow from
inner eye emargination to top of eye with a brief interruption oppo-
site the ocellus; thorax black with mesopleura, except large spot
below posterior wing, mesosternum, metapleura, scutellum, parap-
sides, and anterior lateral angles of prescutum, testaceous ; scutellum
and postscutellum tipped with j^ellowish white ; white dorsal margin
of pronotum extending beyond notauli ; legs similarly colored except
that apical annulus of tibia is prolonged below to base and the tarsi
are not distinctly annulated.
A single female paratype differs from the type only in size, having
the following measurements : length, 5.5 mm. ; antennae, 4 mm. ;
ovipositor, 1.25 mm.
Type locality. — Mountain View, California,
Host. — "On spider nest."
Type.—Q^i. No. 20059, U.S.N.M.
Described from the above two specimens reared from the host in
July, 1898 (Ehrhorn), under No. 8524o\
CLISTOPYGA MANNI, new species.
Closely related to nigrifrons Cushman, but larger, more slender,
and with more slender legs. Compared with the above description
of maculifrons Cushman differs as follows:
Female. — Length 8 mm., antennae 6 mm., ovipositor 1.6 mm. Face
wealdy punctate, frons polished, impunctate ; malar space as long as
basal width of mandible ; postocellar line distinctly longer than ocell-
ocular line, the latter subequal to greatest diameter of lateral ocellus ;
thorax highly polished, only very obscurely punctate; propodeum
weakly arched, with a median groove but without carinae; meso-
pleural furrow not crenulate; nervellus broken at lower fourth;
abdomen shining, the punctation sparser and less deep ; first tergite
with dorsal carinae obsolete beyond summit; apical impression and
lateral elevation less distinct; ovipositor slender, straight to beyond
middle.
Head black with distinct orbital markings extending from top of
eye to malar space; cheeks also white; a small spot on face below
each antenna; clypeus, mandible at base, palpi, scape and pedicel
below whitish ; thorax mostly red, with pronotum below, propleura,
