4 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol. CO
the life history Heider gave merely the oogenesis, with nothing on
the larval development. Heider's remarkable description has served
as a basis for the present paper, and with it have been compared
the morphology of DichelesthiuTn^ Nemesis^ and Eudactylina.
ECOLOGY.
While the component genera and species of the present family
are fixed parasites in the sense that they do not move about freely
over their hosts like the Caligidae and Argulidae, they are not abso-
iiitel}'' incapable of motion like the Lernaeidae. Consequently while
there is a greater or less loss of the powers of locomotion there is
no marked sexual dimorphism, the body frequenth'^ retains its seg-
mentation and flexibility, and none of the appendages are lost or
abnormally transformed.
Sexual diTnorphism. — There is more or less disparity in size be-
tween the two sexes, but the general body structure remains the
same, so that the male of any genus can be easily located through its
resemblance to the female, and while the males are always smaller
than the females they are never reduced so much as to become
pygmies.
In the subfamily Anthosominae the genus Lernanthro'piig is the
one in which the male is best known. Here the male is not only
smaller than the female, but it lacks the dorsal plates which cover
the body of the latter, so that the laminate legs project for their
entire length in dorsal as well as in ventral idew. The segments of
the thorax are more completely fused than in the female and are
seldom indicated by anything except the modified legs.
In the subfamily Eudactylinae the males of Congericola^ Nemesis^
and Eudactylina are known. They differ from the females in hav-
ing a relatively shorter and narrower genital segment, and the seg-
mentation in the A^emesis male is almost Avholly obscured.
In the subfamily Pseudocycninae the males of Pseudocycnus^ the
only ones known, differ from the females in the fact that the long
genital segment of the latter is replaced by a very short, almost
spherical segment, in front of which the fourth legs stand out rigidly
on either side. The cephalothorax is relatively the largest region in
the body, while the abdomen terminates in two large flaring anal
laminae.
In the subfamily Dichelesthiinae the males of Hatschekia. and
Dichelesthiuni are almost perfect counterparts of the females, half a
eize smaller. None of the males in any of these subfamilies is found
attached to the female after the manner of the pygmy males of the
Lernaeopodidae and Sphyriidae. But they are all attached inde-
pendently to the host in the same manner as the females.
