AKT. 5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 5
Locomotion. — Both sexes are free swimmers during development,
but after attachment to their host it is probable that they do not
move about The swollen and lacerated condition of the host's skin
at the spot where the female parasite's claws penetrate it indicates
that the attachment is a permanent one and not temporary. The
structure of the second antennae, which serve as attachment organs
in most of the genera, also indicates that they are intended for per-
manent attachment. And at least in Anthosom-a and Dichelesthium,
and in both sexes of the latter, the skin of the host grows up around
the buried claws and completely envelops them. Neither sex of
Hatschekia, Nemesis, or EudactyUna is fastened as securely as this,
and they could easily loosen tlieir hold upon the gill filament and
move about from one place to another after the manner of Ergasilus,
and it is possible that the males may go farther than this, for when
removed from the gills and placed in water the male of Nemesis is
able to move itself about vigorously by means of its swimming legs,
and can even swim in a bungling fashion, but the body of the female
is apparently too heavy and she quickly sinks to the bottom.
Prehension. — The chief organs of prehension are the second
antennae and maxillipeds. The former are large and powerful in
all the genera and are armed sometimes with stout claws, as in
Lernanthropus., Norion., and Hatschehia.) and sometimes with strong
chelae, as in Kr^yeria., DichelestMum, and Pseud oclavella. In An-
thosoma the second antennae are also elongated and form a pair of
arms something like the maxillae of the Lernaeopods. In Nemesis
and EudactyUna the second antennae are weaker, while the maxilli-
peds are greatly enlarged and become chelate, so that they usurp
most of the functions of prehension.
When the second antennae terminate in claws the two appendages
are oj)posed to each other like the arms of a pair of pincers, and the
tips of the claws are usually thrust past each other so that they
overlap for quite a distance, and in this way a very firm hold is
obtained. In fact, the skin and flesh of the host have to be cut
away before the parasite can be removed. On the other hand, if
each antenna terminates in a chela, they are attached separately and
usually some distance apart. The chela is supposed to give a some-
what stronger and more permanent form of attachment, but the
interlocking of the claws just mentioned makes them fully as power-
ful as the chelae.
Hosts. — This family of parasites is confined exclusively to salt-
water fish, and practically^ all of them to the fish's gills. The genera
EudactyUna, Kr0yena, Nemesis, and ErgasiUna infest sharks and
rays of various species; Anthosoma is found on sharks and the sun-
fish; Dichelestkium has thus far been found only upon the sturgeon;
