6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, vol.60
Lernanthropus and Hatschekia are cosmopolitan, using a great
variety of fish from every ocean and nearly every latitude ; Congeri-
cola is found on the Labridae, or wrasse fishes, chiefly in the Medi-
terranean; most of the other genera are made up of single species
widely scattered.
Being found chiefly upon nonedible fishes, the species of this
family have but little economic importance, and in addition they
are of such small size and occur in such limited numbers that their
importance is still further restricted. In most families of parasitic
copepods the number of specimens upon a single host may be in-
creased under favorable conditions until it becomes a menace to the
life of the fish. Nothing of the sort has ever been reported in
connection with the present family.
Food. — The presence of the great majority of the species upon
the gills of their hosts and the color of the contents of the digestive
tube when freshly examined leave no doubt that these parasites eat
the blood of their host. The walls of the stomach also have the
same structure as those of other blood eaters. That the amount con-
sumed by a single parasite is small may be inferred from the fact
that it is content to remain upon the gills, in company with other
kinds of parasites, instead of boring into the flesh to get at some
large blood vessel.
MORPHOLOGY.
GeTieral hody form. — In general the body of a dichelesthiid is
elongate and tapers gradually from the head to the abdomen. The
thorax is usually distinctly segmented and the genital segment is but
little wider and longer than the preceding segment, but in the genera
Pseudocycnus, Gongericola and Kr0yeria the genital segment is
greatly elongated and is considerably wider than the free segments.
In the genus Lernanthropus there is considerable fusion of the
thoracic segments, and the body is greatly modified by the trans-
formation of the posterior swimming legs into soft laminae, nearly
as long as the body itself. In Pseudocycnus and Hatschekia only
two of the anterior thoracic segments are free, the posterior segments
being fused with the genital segment to form a body region much
longer than the cephalothorax. Another factor which profoundly
modifies the general body form is the presence of dorsal plates, or
wings, or both. In Lernanthropus the dorsal plate which covers
the posterior thorax and abdomen is sometimes elongated and
widened so much, and is wrapped around the body in such a way, as
to give the body the appearance of being clothed in a skirt.
In Sagum the dorsal plate is prolonged at the posterior corners
into large lobes, which have the appearance of a military cloak
draped around the body. In Norton the dorsal plate is prolonged
