AKT.5. NORTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 7
forward at the anterior corners as if to form a pair of large flow-
ing sleeves.
In Anthoso?}ia, beside the large dorsal carapace over the cephalo-
thorax, each thorax segment carries a pair of lateral plates or wings,
which overlap like tiles on a roof, and give the parasite a peculiarly
bizarre appearance.
• We may say, then, that the body of a dichelesthiid is made up of
four parts or regions, a cephalothorax composed of the head and
first thoracic segment fused, a free thorax of from two to four seg-
ments, a genital segment either alone or fused with the preceding
thorax segments, and an abdomen of one or more segments. For
appendages there are two pairs of antennae, a pair of mandibles,
two pairs of maxillae, a pair of maxillipeds, and from two to five
pairs of swimming legs.
Antennae. — The first antennae are attached to the anterior margin
of the cephalothorax, are cylindrical in form, and are composed of
a number of short joints placed end to end and plentifully supplied
with setae. Tlie number of joints varies considerably, not merely in
different genera but also among the species of the same genus; but
since the muscles of these first antennae are poorly developed it is
difficult, as Heider has said, to determine just how many segments
there are. In his figures of the species of Lernanthropus he repre-
sented the antennae as varying from three to nine segments, and a
similar variation has been found in the species described by the pres-
ent author. Furthermore, the basal joint in some species is enlarged
much more than in others. In the different genera the number of
joints varies from three in Pseudocycnus and Pseudoclaivella up to
nine in Bassettithia and fifteen in Nemesis., the basal ones being in-
distinctly separated (fig. 72).
The second antennae are fastened to the ventral surface of the
head close to the anterior margin. Being the chief organs of pre-
hension they are large and stout in most of the genera. They are
made up of two or three joints, the terminal one in the form of a
strong claw which is usually curved, sometimes barbed [Cyhicola)
and sometimes strongly chelate {Pseudoclavella., Dichelesthiuni.,
Kr0yeria). Rarely these appendages are armed with setae only
{Lam/proglena., Donusa., Ventriculina). The basal joints are swollen
and armed with powerful muscles by means of v>'hich the terminal
claws can be driven into the flesh of the host (figs. 4, 24, 32, 78, 98).
Mouth parts. — The proboscis is formed of an upper and an under
lip, which project from the ventral surface of the head. Near the
base the margins of the two lips are tolerably parallel and separated
by only a slight distance, but each lip soon begins to taper and in
consequence the margins diverge. On either side at the point where
