8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vor,. 60
the divergence begins the under lip sends out a lobe, which curves
forward and upward around the upper lip and fastens the tAvo se-
curely together in the form of a tube (figs. 75 and 80).
The mandibles originate on the ventral surface of the head outside
of the proboscis. Each is somewhat swollen at the base, then tapers
into a long and narrow shaft, which passes into the proboscis tube
through the opening between the upper and under lips. Inside the
proboscis each mandible is widened a little toward the tip and flat-
tened dorso-ventrally and the edges which face each other are finely
toothed. In Lanvproglena and Lernanthrojms the mandibles are
curved like a saber or sickle, with the convex side inward; in Flat-
schekia, Dichelesthiuin^ and Caetrodes they are straight and have
more the shape of a stylet.
The first maxillae vary greatly in different genera ; when fully de-
veloped, as in Lernanthropus^ they are biramose, the endopod or
palp arising nearer the proboscis and consisting of a tiny process
armed with a single seta. The exopod is farther away from the
proboscis and is made up of two more or less elongated joints, tipped
with two or three setae (fig. 75), but in many of the genera the endo-
pod is entirely lacking and the exopod is destitute of setae. In
Hatschekia these maxillae consist of small papillae, each armed with
three setae, similar to those of the Ergasilidae. In Anthosoma both
rami are straight spines, the endopod several times the length of the
exopod (fig. 5).
The second maxillae are usually smaller and weaker than the
maxillipeds. They are normally composed of a swollen basal joint,
an elongated and slender second joint, and a small terminal claw, and
are prehensile in function. In Lernanthropus the concave margin
of the claw is armed with two rows of small teeth, and there is a
small accessory claw at its base on the inner side (figs. 22 and 25).
In LamfrogJena these maxillae are the chief organs of prehension
and each is armed with a very stout curved claw, while the maxilli-
peds are much smaller and each is tipped with three tiny claws.
The maxillipeds in most of the genera are important organs of
prehension and are much stronger and more powerfully developed
than the maxillae. They usually consist of a swollen basal joint
furnished with strong muscles and a curved terminal claw. In some
genera these claws are simple and shut down against the side of the
basal joint, as in Donusa, PseudoclaveUa., and Lernanthro'pus. In
other genera the terminal claw is barbed or furnished with one or
more teeth on the concave margin, as in Cyhicola^ Pseudocycnus^ and
Congericola^ and in Nemesis, Eudactylina, Dichelesthiuni^ and
Anthosoma there are outgrowths upon the basal joint into which the
tip of the claw fits, making it virtually a chela (fig. 82). Dicheles-
thium is the only genus in which both the second antennae and the
