12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 60
Integument. — In none of the genera is the skin hardened into
inflexible chitin, as occurs in so many of the Lernaeidae. The modi-
fications of the skin, called variously carapace, dorsal, or lateral
plates, wings, lobes, etc., are often hardened into chitin, as in Antho-
soma^ Nemesis., and DichelestMum.^ but there are also some genera in
which they remain soft, as in Lernanthropus and Bassettithia; but
in sections that are double-stained the skin always takes the red
eosin, but refuses the second color, showing that it has been modi-
fied even though it remains soft. Such a section demonstrates that
the skin is made up of very thin layers packed closely together.
Moreover, it is not uniform in thickness, but varies greatly in differ-
ent parts of the body. It is nearly always thicker upon the ap-
pendages than upon the body itself, and the framework which sup-
ports the various appendages, together with the rods and bands
which connect the bases of each pair of appendages across the
median line, and the framework around the sex openings appear
to be formed by a thickening of the skin. A comparison of the dif-
ferent layers of the skin shows that the outer layers are denser and
more homogeneous in structure, darker in color, and more strongly
refractive than the inner layers. Consequently Heider was led to
the conclusion that the increase in thickness takes place by the
addition of layers from the inside, which seems probable. Another
notable difference in thickened portions of the skin is that the inner
layers often show a distinct granulation and sometimes an irregular
striping, perpendicular to the surface. Through this skin open ex-
cretory ducts leading from the inner chitinogen layer. So far as
observed these appear to be usually cylindrical and uniform in diam-
eter, rather than funnel shaped as in the Lernaeidae. They are scat-
tered everywhere over the skin in great numbers, but are especially
numerous upon the head and the free edges of the carapace and
dorsal plates. But beside these slender ducts there are a few along
the edge of the dorsal carapace, which are funnel shaped and whose
diameter is much larger. And the inner or larger end of the funnel
is oval rather than circular in outline. A pair of large ducts open
between the bases of the maxillipeds and a similar pair on either side
near the bases of the first and second antennae.
The outgrowths of the skin are of three kinds. First, there are
processes of the skin itself, soft in texture, hollow, and filled with the
chitinogen layer from the inside of the body. These are found in
considerable numbers on the antennae, especially on the terminal
joints, and may be designated as tactile processes. Here also belong
the large setae on the anal laminae, which are hollow and whose
lumen is filled with tissue from the inside of the body. A second
group comprises the tactile setae which arise from small warts placed
