ABT. 5. 2q-0RTH AMERICAN PARASITIC COPEPODS WILSON. 13
in an invagination of the skin. These setae are solid, but the warts
are partially hollow, and to them slender cords of granular proto-
plasm lead through the skin. The third group includes the hairs
which appear in various places on the skin and the setae that are
found on the appendages. These are solid, they arise directly from
the surface of the skin and not from a wart or process, and they are
not connected in any way with the interior of the body through the
skin.
Under the skin is found a layer of tissue which has been called by
Hartmann the chitinogen layer and by Heider the matrix, and which
varies considerably in the different genera. In Lemanthropus Heider
has described this as not a continuous cellular layer, but instead a
protoplasmic ground substance without any distinction of cells, but
with small nuclei and granules scattered through it, giving it a
granular appearance. In Dichelesthium the chitinogen layer varies
greatly in thickness, being reduced to a membrane at and near the
joints between the body segments, but increased many times in the
center of the segments. Here also the cells are not separated by
walls or membranes, but the nuclei are scattered through a common
ground substance. There is, however, on the side next to the skin
a row of nuclei, slightly larger than the others and placed very close
together, which stand out with especial distinctness and have every
appearance of a pavement epithelium whose tiny component cells
have been completely fused. At the joints the chitinogen layer is
made up of this pavement epithelium alone, but elsewhere the ground
substance is greatly thickened and gathered into rounded masses of
varying size, through which nuclei are scattered indiscriminately
(fig. 105). In Nemesis the skin itself is very distinctly striated
transversely and the matrix beneath it is so thin that in many places
it can only be distinguished with difficulty. It is thicker on the
ventral than on the dorsal surface and enters the large basal joints
of the swimming legs, but even here no nuclei or cell walls can be
seen.
Inside the matrix is the connective tissue which surrounds all the
organs and holds them in place like a mesentery. It is made up of
a delicate network of fibers, which are usually branched where they
are attached to the inner surface of the matrix. In among the fibers
may be seen here and there small connective tissue cells with a dis-
tinct nucleus. This tissue enters the large basal joints of the swim-
ming legs in Nemesis^ and the modified laminae of the third and
fourth legs in Lemanthro'pus^ filling the entire cavity, except for the
meshes between the fibers of the tissue itself and the portion already
filled by the matrix. In the laminate legs of Lernanthropus the
matrix is so thin that the connective tissue fibers penetrate through
3136— 22— Proc.N.M,Vol.60 9
