14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL, MUSEUM. vol.60
it and are attached to the inside of the skin itself. They thus servo
as stays or supports of these legs, rendering them less liable to
collapse.
INTERNAL MORPHOLOGY.
General statement. — Inside the skin are found the muscles for
moving the body and its various appendages. The digestive system
consists of a mouth, an esophagus, usually inclined forv^ard, a
straight intestine, and a short rectum. The nervous system consists
of two ganglia, one above and one below the esophagus, a ventral
nerve trunk, divided posteriorly, and nerves extending to various
parts of the body. The reproductive system is made up of paired
ovaries or testes, oviducts, or sperm ducts leading back along the
lateral margins, cement glands between the oviducts and the body
wall, sperm receptacles in the female and spermatophore receptacles
in the male. The excretory system consists of a nimiber of small
glands distributed in various parts of the body, the ducts leading
from them opening to the surface through the skin.
Musculature. — The most important muscle groups are those in-
cluding the longitudinal muscles of the dorsal and ventral surfaces,
the muscles which move the various appendages, and tlie dorso-
ventral muscles. The largest and longest muscles in the body are
two connected with the second antennae. Each is attached to the
distal end of the basal joint of the antenna and has its origin near
the posterior margin of the cephalothorax. At its origin and for a
third of its length it is bifid, then the two branches unite into a
single large band. Inside of these muscles in the anterior part of the
cephalothorax are two much smaller ones curved like parenthesis
marks, which are connected with the first antennae. Behind the
origin of these curved muscles on either side are small bundles of
fibers which have their origin on the dorsal surface and run down-
ward and forward to the base of the mouth tube. Behind these in
the posterior center of the cephalothorax are two pairs of narrow
longitudinal muscles which run back through the second segment and
are attached to its posterior margin. Outside of these in the second
segment are two other longitudinal muscles on either side, which run
from the first segment through the second into the anterior part of
the third segment. From this last point to the middle of the fifth
segment there are two pairs of muscles on either side. From the
middle of the fifth to the genital segments there are three muscles
on either side, and in the posterior part of the genital segment and
the abdomen there is only one.
On the ventral surface there is but a single muscle on either side
of the midline, which is broken at places corresponding to the breaks
in the dorsal muscles.
