AUSTOAL HEPATICAE XX.
ND« SFBCIB5 CF HTORQEaCIDIOH (IZPIDGZIACEAE)
R. M. Schuster and John J. Engel
Research Associate, Field Museum of Natural History, and
Cryptogamlc Laboratory, Hadley, Massachusetts 01035 and Donald
Richards Curator of Bryology, Field Museum of Natural History,
Chicago, Illinois 60605.
"n^ Lepidozlaceae are a leU^ge and diverse family that
ccjntains sooie 7 subfamilies. One of these subfamilies, the
Lembldloldeae , is conposed of four genera — Isolepabidivnn,
Lembidium , Hygrolonbidlum and Chloretnthel la . The following new
taxa sure part of a monogra{diic study of subf . Lenbidloideae; the
names are published sepaui'ately to make them Immediately
available for use.
Hygroleabidlum rlgldua Schust. & Engel, sp. nov.
Plantae subisophyllae, caurrvcasae et fraiglles. Folia (2)3-4-
stratosa basin versus, cellvila ^idermalis in sectione
transverscQl magnitudine eel lulls Intemis + aequalls; cellvilae
dlstailes usque ad tertiam partam diametri cellularum basalium
foliorum adaequantes; margines foliorum saepe repandl vel
repando-dentati , papillae mucosae frequentes; sv^jerficies
foliorum papulosa. E^rianthum ccmspicue Icxigi-fusiforme, ore
crenulato. Seta 10-14 seriebus cellularum ^idermlallum immita.
Holotvpe : New 2fealand, South Island., Flordland Natl. Park,
Mt. Bums, Hunter Mts. , 4500-5000 ft., Schuster 84-101
(F)(isotype: CHR) .
Plants fleshy and brittle, subisophyllous or imder loaves only
moderately smaller than leaves on the erect, + triquetrous
shoots, intense pure green, the leafy shoots to 1.8 ran wide.
Branching common, mostly ventrcd-intercalary , occasionally
lateral-intercalary, very rarely of Frul lania - type ; stolons
sporadic or occasional, only rarely forming a freely branched
prostrate system from **ilch arise the erect leafy shoots. Stem
very thick for plant size, formed of u?) to ca. 50 rows of
cortical cells that are thln-vialled (except free walls fsdntly
thickened). Rhizoids occasionally toward base of erect, leafy
shoots, frcaii basal cells of vinderleaf or leaf or from stem at
inmediate base of foliar tissue; rhizoids of stolons similar in
origin to those of leafy branches. Leaves firm, rigid, opaque,
often + keeled below, in cross section toward base (2)3-4-
stratose in intramarginal sector, the leaves remaining
polystratose to at most within 2 cells of margin, the epidermal
cells of leaf averaging + the same size as internal cells; leaf
insertion transverse to feebly succubous, the leaf orientation
9
