10 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. 62, No. 1
transverse; leaves deeply ccxicave to subcvpulate to
subcana-liculate, broadly ovate-triangulco: to reniform-orbiculsu:
to oblate; apex scmewhat narrowed, usually with a sharp, short
Incision or at least retuse, sanetimes 3-4-lobalate and/or
dentate, often loosely folded or canaliculate; lamina margins
entire or often repand to repand-dentate , slime papillae
frequait. Cells showing gross size increeise from apical and
mau^inal eureas (here 20-25 x 24-30 u to 24-35 x 28-48 u) to base
(here 40-60 x 55-85 u to 60-85 x 70-100 up to 45-60 x 100-120
u) ; cell walls thin throughout, distaQly with at most medium-
sized trigones; cuticle obscurely to distinctly peipillose
throuc^KXit leaf, only the median or median-bascQ cells sometimes
smooth. Oil-bodies uniformly lacking. Under leaves 0.4-
0.65(0.75) as large as leaves, ovate-triangular to orbicular-
reniform to broadly ova te-renl form, usually folded-
cana]iculate, 0.6-1.8x as wide as stan; c^>ex often retuse or
shallowly bifid; lamina margins entire or repand, often with
slime papillae.
Dioecious. Androecla on both lateral- and ventral-
Intercodaury branches; antheridia single per bract, the stalk
bistratose throughout or unlstratose but with bistratose areas.
GyrKaecia mostly ventral in origin, occasionally lateral; bracts
and bracteoles nesurly Identical, sheathing only based ca. 0.25
of perianth, somevAiat larger than leaves, hyaline, the apex
blunt to neurrowly truncate or subacute, unlobed, with armature
as in perianth mouth; lamina margins dentate to dilate, slime
papillae cooman. Perianth exceptionally long for plant size,
long- fusiform, cylindrical below and bluntly 3(4)-gonous above,
the mouth crenate-denticulate with thin-walled, laterally
connate, finger-like cells that are mostly 3.5-5:1; perianth 3-
5(6)-stratose at base.
Seta with 10-14 rows of epidermal cells. Capsule long-
elliptic, the wall 3- (very locally 4) stratoee. Epidermal
cells with longitudinal and some transverse walls with thin to
moderately thickened continuous sheets of wall material but with
nodular thickenings weak or lacking; innermost layer with radial
(vertical) batxis nodular to spur-like in surface view, varyingly
extended tangent ially to form incomplete to complete,
semiannular bands. Spores 12.4-13.5 u, exine with low, delicate
papillose and sinple or sometimes furcate vermiculate markings.
Elaters 2-spiral, 8.6-9.6 u in diameter; spirals 2.9-3.8 u wide.
Diagnostic for this species is the combination of a) the
basal cells of the leaf to 3X the diameter of distal cells; b)
the leaves in basal cross section 3-4-stratose and with
epidermal cells averaging + the same size as internal cells; c)
the lack of oil-bodies; d) the rather large vmder leaves that are
often similar to the leaves, so that leeify shoots are almost
trigcaious; e) the papillose leaf cuticle; f) the repand to
r^and-dentate leaf margins; and g) the strikingly long fusiform
perianths .
