1987 Schuster & Engel, Austral Hepaticae 11
HygroladbidliM trlquetrun Engel & Schust. , sp. nov.
Plantae subisophyllae vel + isophyllae, triquetrae, admodum
camosae et fragiles. Caul is cortex bene evoluta, cellvilae
cx)rticis 1-2-stratosae, raulto minores quam cellulae medullares;
cellulae corticales leptodermae, cc. 65-seriatae. Folia 5-7-
stratosa basin versus, cellula ^idermiedi in sectione
transversal i plerumque eel lulls intemis diametro minor ibus;
cellulae foliorum basaliimi diametro cellulis distalibus
subaequales; maa^ines foliorum repandi vel repando-dentati ,
papillae mucosae frequentes; superficies foliorum levis. Stipes
antheridii bicellulari-seriatus .
Holotype : New Zealand, South Is., Westland Prov. , Mt.
Aspirir^ Natl. Park, below and W. of Mt. Armstrong, SSW of Mt.
Brewster, 1250-1450 m. , Erwel 17790 (F)(isotvpe: CHR) .
Plants exceedingly fleshy and brittle, subisqphyllous to +
isophyllous on the erect triquetrous shoots, pure greai, the
leafy shoots to 2.4 mn wide. Branching cc^ious, both ventral-
and lateral -intercaleu:^; stolons ccnmcn, usually not forming a
freely branched prostrate system from which arise the erect,
leafy shoots. Stem very thick for plant size, the cortex in ca.
65 rows of thin-walled cells, well differentiated, in 1 or
locally 2 layers. Rhizoids often toward base of erect, leafy
shoots, frcm basal cells of under leaf or leaf or from ston at
Inmediate base of foliar tissue; rhizoids of stolons similar in
origin to those of leafy brsuxhes. Leaves finn, rigid, brittle,
opaque, often + keeled below. In cross section toward base 5-7-
stratose in intramarginal sector, the epidermal cells of leaf
averaging considerably smaller than internal cells; leaf
insertion transverse to faintly succubous, the leaf orientation
transverse; leaves incxJerateiy concave to cupulate to
canaliculate, oblate to reniform; a^iex variable, often broadly
rounded to subtruncate, at times scnewhat narrowed (particularly
CHI smaller leafy branches) , entire or scnietijnes with a few small
teeth, sporeKiiccilly retuse; lamina margins entire or oft«\
repand to repand-dentate , slime papillae frequent. Cell walls
thin to slightly thickened, those of apiceil sector with at most
medivmi-sized trigfones, those toward base l^todermous, with
trigones small or absent; cells of epical sector subquadrate,
23-31 u wide and long; median cells 22-31 u wide, 26-37(42) u
long; basal cells 22-32 u wide, 36-52 u long; cuticle uniformly
smcx>th. Oil-bodies not seen. Under leaves similar to leaves
in form and often not or hardly differentiated from them, 0.5-
0.75 as large as leaves to at times subequal to them, ovate to
subreniform, (0. 8)1-1. 3X as wide as stem; apex plane to (often)
hood-like, variable, undivided and entire or retuse to shcQlowly
bifid; lamina margins entire or repand-dentate to dentate, often
with slime papillae.
