Phylologia (July 1995) 79(l):58-64.
Rexford F. Oaubenmire (1910-1995)
"Dauby" was the usual appellation applied by graduate students to Dr.
Daubenmire, Professor at Washington State University, Pullman, Washington, during
the years 1950-1953 while I was working under the aegis of the late Prof. Marion
Ownbey (1910-1974) in the area of plant systematics.
I first read about Dauby's death in the obit section of the New York Times (8
September 1995). This was a short but well-written account of his professional life
and contributions to ecology. Unfonunately it conveyed very little about the man
himself. Indeed, most scientists are largely remembered by brief obits prepared by
their professional colleagues in which their lives are summed up as lines culled from
their latest CV. Subsequent biographers have to invent their other aitnbutes, especially
for scientists who are reluctant to write personal letters or expose their psyches.
Perhaps, for many workers, that is as it should be. But 1 feel otherwise. Indeed,
the only previous obits to have been penned by me (Turner 1972, 1975) were both
highly personal, although both were solicited. In these I wished to portray the inner
essence of the person, his weaknesses and strengths, beauties, foibles, whatever.
Whether or not I succeeded in these endeavors is not so important as the attempt, for
these will surely provide future biographers with at least some material by which to
humanize their subjects. To me, at least, an individual's work cannot be understood
solely by publications and their contents.
The present obit is obviously unsolicited. It is written simply because I thought
Dauby was a fine researcher, a commendable undergraduate teacher, and a remarkable
professional. Certainly, any deep appreciation I have of the field of ecology comes
from my enrollment in all of the courses he taught in botany at W.S.U. during the time
of my attendance at that institution. These included aulecology, synecology, field
ecology, and plant geography; 1 also scned as his T.A. in undergraduate courses in
general botany, sitting in on all of his freshman lectures on that subject.
Dauby was, for the most part, a calm, even-tempered, rather handsome man. He
wore a full mustache above a seemingly perpetual Gioconda-like smile (unusual for
most competitive males of my acquaintance, at the Ume or since). Even when
exceedingly irritated he retained that sphinxious grin: along with his expressive eyes,
and thin lips, he exuded a detached .serenity that belied his inner turmoils.
At the time 1 knew him, during the pnme of his professional career, aged 40-43,
Dauby was lean and well -proportioned, about 5 feet ten or so and perhaps 150
pounds. He wore an academic costume to all of his formal lectures: well-creased
pants, a professorial tweed coal with leather covered elbows, bowlie, and freshly
poli.shed shoes. 1 remember this well, for the late Art Cronquisl (1919-1992), his
colleague at the lime, for whom 1 was also a T.A., dressed in just the oppc^sile
58
