Phytologia (July 1995) 79(1): 10- 11.
A NEW COMBINATION IN PHYSALIS (SOLANACEAE)
Barbro Axelius
Botaniska Institutionen, Stockholms Universitet, S-106 91 Stockholm, SWEDEN
ABSTRACT
Margaranthus solanaceous is transferred to the genus Physalis and hence
the monotypic genus Margaranthus becomes a synonym of Physalis.
KEY WORDS: Physalis, Margaranthus, Solanaceae, systematics
Margaranthus Schldl. (Solanaceae) is a monotypic genus from Mexico and the
southwestern United States. It was described by Schlechtendal 1838. It has always
been regarded as very closely related to the genus Physalis L., differing in form and
colour of the corolla and insertion of filaments. The annual M. solanaceous
Schlechtendal has an urceolate, violet/greenish corolla with adnate filaments while in
Physalis the corollas are campanulate to nearly rotate, yellow or whitish and the
filaments are free.
In his monograph, Rydberg (1896) considered Margaranthus as very closely
related to Physalis but kept it as a separate genus. In a karyological report, Menzel
(1950) noted the great similarities between Margaranthus and Physalis and, based on
S/T ratio data placed Margaranthus between the annual sections Angulatae and
Pubescentes of Physalis. She did not, however, make any formal transference.
Waterfall (1958) in his survey of Physalis in North Amenca commented on the
similarity of Margaranthus to Physalis and noted that if not in flower, Margaranlluis
could not be distinguished from small-fruited species of Physalis. He stated that
possibly Margaranthus should be included in Physalis, but that further studies
including cntical species of Ouunaesarac/ia (C. graiulijlora (Hook.) Fern., C. muia
(A. Gray) A. Gray, both now in Leucophysalis) were needed before formal
transference. He thus kept Margaranthus as it was onginaiiy described, as a genus of
its own. On the other hand he included Quincula lohata, another related, monotypic
genus in Physalis, even though Quincula differs from Physalis in several characters
besides colour of corolla. This was probably due to Quincula onginally being
described as a Physalis.
My recent cladistic analyses of the physaloid group, including among others
Margaranthus, Quincula, Clianiaesarachu, and Ix'ucopliysalis (Axelius 1995) has
10
