Phytologia (July 1995) 79(1): 12-21.
TAXONOMIC OVERVIEW OF HEDYOTIS NIGRICANS (RUBIACEAE) AND
CLOSELY ALLIED TAXA
B.L. Turner
Department of Botany, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78713 U.S.A.
ABSTRACT
A taxonomic study of Hedyotis nigricans is rendered in which a
widespread var. nigricans is recognized, along with five regional or localized,
allopatric varieties: var. florvdana (southern Rorida); var. pulvinata
(northeastern Florida); var. austrotexana B.L. Turner, var. nov. (southern
Texas); var. gypsophila B.L. Turner, var. nov. (montane regions of Nuevo
Le6n, Mexico and closely cidjacent states); and var. papillacea B.L. Turner,
var. nov. (northern panhandle and trans-Pecos, Texas, and closely adjacent
New Mexico). A key to these taxa is provided along with maps showing their
distributions. Additionally, these taxa are compared with the closely related
species H. angulata and H. butterwickiae , and maps showing their distribution
are also provided.
KEY WORDS: Rubiaceae, Hedyotis, Houstonia, systematics, Mexico, Texas
Hedyolis nigricans (Lam.) Foshcrg {=Houslonia nigricans [Liim.\ Fern.) has been
variously treated as belonging to the genus Hedyotis or Houstonia (Shinners 1949;
Terrell 1986, 1991), some workers prefernng an inclusive Hedyolis (including
Houstonia), others preferring a more restnctcd Hedyolis (excluding Houstonia, cf.
Terrell 1991). Most current workers accept Hedyolis nigricans as belonging to
Hedyotis, including Terrell (1991), albeit tentatively. Terrell (1986) provided a
taxonomic overview of H. nigricans for the U.S.A., especially Florida, but did not
treat in detail collections from Texas, New Mexico, and Mdxico.
The present contribution is based upon the detailed examination of over 8(X) sheets
of Hedyolis nigricans on file at LL, TEX, and SRSC.
Key to Texas px_^pulations of Hedyolis nigricans and closely related taxa
Leaves mostly basal, very numerous and forming pulvinate mats, the stiflly erect
rather naked stems having markedly appressed, stiff-lanceolate leaves; fruits
mostly orbicular; southeastern most Brewster Co H. butterwickiae
12
