Turner Overview o( Hedyotis 13
1. Leaves otherwise, mostly cauline and spreading; fruits mostly ovoid (except for
Gulf Coastal populations); widespread (2)
2. Midstem leaves thick and short, ovate-linear to lanceolate, 1 cm long or less,
the margins never enrolled; capsules orbicular at maturity; calyx lobes 1 mm
long or less; rock or cliff-dwelling species of eastern trans-Pecos, Texas and
closely adjacent Mexico H. angulata Fbsberg
2. Midstem leaves not as described in the above, the margins to some extent
enrolling with dessication; capsules ovoid at maturity; calyx lobes mostly 1 mm
or more long, if shorter then the leaves decidedly linear to linear-oblanceolate;
mostly not rock or bare-bluff species, widespread {H. nigricans) (3 )
3. Calyx, and/or upper stems and leaves to some extent papillose with extended
epidermal cells, these superficially resembling hairs, or else the calyx to some
extent beset with callose hair-like enations (4)
3. Calyx, upper stems and leaves glabrous or merely ciliate along the leaf margins and
calyx lobes var. nigricans
4. Plants mostly sprawling, low bushy herbs 5-15 cm high; [Xinhandle and trans-
Pecos Texas var. papillacea
4. Plants mostly simple-stemmed, non bushy herbs 20-40 cm high; southern
Texas var. anstroiexana
Key to Mexican populations of Hedyotis nigricans
Primary leaves at midstem mostly 1-3 mm wide, 3-12 times as long as wide; calyx
usually glabrous, or with but a few ciliate hairs; mostly calcareous soils,
widespread var. nigricans
Primary leaves at midstem mostly 3-6 mm wide, 2.5-3.5 times as long as wide;
calyx usually markedly setose with thickened hairs; mostly gypseous soils of
southernmost Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, and very closely adjacent Zacatecas and
probably Tamaulipas \ ar. gypsophila
HEDYOTIS BUTTERWICKIAE (Terrell) Nesom, Sysl. Bol. 13:434. 1988.
Houstonia butterwickiae Terrell
This species, first described by Terrell in 1979, was retained by both Nesom
(1988) and Terrell (1991). It is known only by collections from along the ridgclop of
the Bullis Range on the Bullis Gap Ranch, in Brewster Co., which is about 20 mi S of
Sanderson (Terrell Co.). The taxon is obviously closely related to Hedyotis nigricans
but can be immediately recognized by its very narrow, linear-lanceolate, relali\cly
thickened sliflly ascending stem lea\cs, the basal lca\cs fonnmg a dense pul\ inalc
array of shorter, somewhat broader elliplic-lanceolale leaves. Additionally, Terrell, in
his original description, notes that the taxon has nearly globose capsules and a
relatively diffuse innorcscence.
HEDYOTIS NIGRICANS (Lam.) Fosberg, Lloydia 4:287. 1941.
Terrell (1986) treated this taxon as belonging to the genus Houstonia bul
subsequently (1991) positioned il in Hedyotis. He considered H. nigricans to be a
"polymt)rphic species", but neserlheless recognized three vanclies in the complex, a
