14 PHYTOLOGIA July 1995 volume 79(1): 12-21
widespread highly variable var. nigricans, and two very localized varieties in Rorida,
both coastal (Figure 1).
I have examined numerous sheets of this species from over a broad region and
recognize three additional varietal taxa, as described below. All of these are largely
allopatric with var. nigricans but appear to intergrade into the latter in regions of near
contact
Even with the removal of these several newly described elements, var. nigricans
remains quite variable, ranging from rather spindly plants with linear to linear-
oblanceolate leaves in eastern and central Texas, to shorter plants with linear-lanceolate
to linear-elliptic leaves in west-central Texas and westwards. In Mdxico the variety,
while quite variable, is less complex, as shown in Figure 2.
HEDYOTIS NIGRICANS var. NIGRICANS
Terrell (1986, 1991) accounted for most of the Texas names involved in the
synonymy of this variety, and these are briefly touched upon here.
Houstonia salina k.k. Heller -This name is typified by material from coastal areas
of southern Texas (Nueces Co.). 1 agree with Terrell (1986) that the plants concerned
differ but little from typical elements of var. nigricans.
Houstonia tenuis Small -This name is typified by material from central Texas (San
Saba Co.) and appears to be the same as var. nigricans, as noted by Terrell (1991).
Houstonia angustifolia Michx. var. rigidiuscula A Gray, Syn. Fl. N. Amer.
1(2):27. 1884. Shinners (1949) transferred this variety into Hedyotis nigricans
without comment, merely noting it to be typified by plants collected in "S. and W.
Texas, Palmer . Havard, & c. Coast of E. Florida, Rugel . (Mex)". Unfortunately, to
my knowledge, no one has lectotypified the name concerned, but my own evaluations
of this apcllation are that it was meant to apply to plants havmg a low ngid stature,
mainly occurring in the southwestern U.S.A. (western Texas, New Mexico, and
Arizona) and Mexico. Those who might wish to apply this varietal name to such
plants over this region might do so, but 1 view the variation between such habitai
forms as relatively trivial, there being gradual intergradation between such populalional
forms over a broad region of central Texas and northern Mexico. In short, there
seems little merit in attempting to define what the habitai limits of var. rigidiuscula
might be.
Houstonia angustifolia Michx. var. scabra S. Wats., Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts
18:97. 1883. (TYPE: MEXICO. Coahuila: Carocol Mts, 19-20 Aug 1880, E.
Palmer 410; Isolypc: LL!). -This name is unaccounted for by Tencll (1986, 1991)
but examination of type malenal shows this to belong to var. nigricans. The Carcx:ol
MLs are said to be located about 24 mi southeast of Monckna, Mexico (McVaugh
1956), an area well within the distribution of var. nigricans as dcfmcd in the present
treatment.
