20 PHYTOLOGIA July 1995 volume 79(1): 12-21
H. nigricans (Lam.) Fosberg var. papillacea B.L. Turner, var. nov.;
similis H. nigricans var. nigricans sed saepius 5-15 cm alta, enascens
caudicibus ramosis et ligneis; caules, folia, calycesque aliquantum papillosi
enatis capillaribus.
Resembling var. nigricans but the plants mostly 5-15 cm high and the stems,
leaves and calyces to some extent papillose with hair-like enations.
As shown in Figure 1, the var. papillacea is largely confined to the northernmost
panhandle region of Texas where it passes, rather abruptly, into var. nigricans. It also
is found in the trans-Pecos regions of Texas and closely adjacent New Mexico where it
reportedly occurs in and along limestone ledges and bluffs (Del Norte, Glass and
Guadalupe Mts). Plants of the latter region superficially resemble Hedyotis angulala,
and some of these were annotated as such by Terrell (e.g., Warnock 7978, from the
Del Norte Mts [TEX]). Inclusion of the panhandle collections with the trans-Pecos
material might appear moot in that the panhandle collections have somewhat longer,
more linear-lanceolate leaves and occur as populationtd disjuncts. However, similar
p)opulational disjunctions occur in several species of Asteraceae (e.g., Chrysotlmmnus)
and need not be cause for much concern, at least 1 find it difficult to distinguish
between the two populational elements.
It should be noted that the type collection of var. papillacea was found growing
with or near material that might be deemed to be var. nigricans {Patterson 508, 516) in
that these two relatively late-flowering collections seemingly lack the papillose enations
which characterize the taxon, but in all other characters these two plants resemble var.
papillacea as conceived here. The same is true for occasional specimens from the
panhandle region, where the variety is apparently much more common, to judge from
herbarium collections.
Finally, it should be emphasized that from among the 1000 or more specimens of
var. nigricans examined by me in the present study, only a few sheets were discerned
to have papillose enations of the type found in var. papillmea, at least two of these
from the state of Rorida (Franklin Co., sand dunes and coastal areas along the Gulf of
Mexico: Henderson 63-1309; Krai 39899). Obviously such enations are under
relatively simple genetic control, but in the var. papillacea these appear to be
populationally "fixed" in the regions shown in Figure 1, occurring on plants with a
habital display quite different from the habital display of var. nigricans over most of its
eastern distribution.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
1 am grateful to my wife, Gayic, for the Latin diagnoses, and to her and Picro
Delprete for reviewing the manuscript.
