Huni el al.: Sidtus of Quercus arkansana inJexas 23
stretch of Cass County Road 4561 about 5 km northeast of McLeod, Texas, and 5 km
west of Rodcssa, Lx)uisiana, which they identified as Quercus arkamana {MacRoberts
& MacRoberts 2875 [NCSC], 2874, 2877 [BRCH], 2879 [VDB], 2881 [LSUS],
2873 [ND], 2878 [DAV]). Some of these specimens were sent elsewhere for
confirmation. Hunt determined 2876 as "probably Quercus arkansana x Q. nigra"
2875 and 2873 were identified as Q. arkamana by J.W. Hardin and Richard Jensen,
respectively. Julia Larke determined an unnumbered specimen to be <2- arkatisana.
This population is within 2 km of a large population of Q. arkansana in Louisiana
centering on a point where Black Bayou and State Line Creek cross LA 168 about 3
km west of Rodessa (Tcague & Wendt 1994). Associated species for this site include
Quercus marilandica Muenchh., Q. stellata Wang., Q. incana Bartr., Pinus laeda L.,
P. echinata, Vitis spp.. Sassafras albidum (Nutt.) Nees, and Uquidatnbar styracijlua.
The area was heavily shaded, had a dense pine litter and aJmost no herbaceous
understory, and was badly damaged by commercial foresU^.
The environment of the Cass County sites is typical for the species: midslope of
eroding sandhills adjacent to headwater tributaries. That Quercus arkansana occurs in
Cass County is not surprising since it occurs in adjacent parishes and counties in
Louisiana and Arkansas (Hunt 1990; Louisiana Natural Heritage 1995; Smith 1988).
Hunt (1986) has documented increased mtrogression between Q. arkansana and Q.
nigra at the range edge of the former. Thus the mixed traits found in the Cass County
collections are expected: short petioles {Q. nigra), scurfy leaf and twig pubescence
(Q. arkatisana), suid leaf shape varying between the two provide strong evidence for
putative hybridization between these species.
In addition to these recent finds, Hunt located a specimen from Jasper County
(W.W. Aishe 1 [NCU]) collected in 1903 that is probably Quercus arkanscuui but may
be a hybrid between Q. nigra and Q. veluiina Lam. (Hunt 1990). This sf)ecimen was
originally identified as Q. velutina x Q. laurifolia fvlichx. Unfortunately, a specific
locality is not given and, although much potential mesic sandhill habitat exists in the
northern third of the county, relocating this population, if it still exists, may be
difficult. The east Texas landscape has been drastically altered over the past century,
and Q. arkansana is notorious for its patchy distribution and its inconspicuousncss,
which has always made it difficult to kxate (Hunt 1986).
These populations represent westward range extensions for Quercus arkiinsaiia.
Additional populations of this (xik are expected and should be sought in Bowie,
Marion, and Cass counties. The ranly of this species in Texas and throughout its
range makes it a good candidate for any protected plant iisl for the stale, and an effort
to protect its habitat should be made to ensure its survival in Texas.
ACKNOWLEDGME>4TS
Stanley Jones (BRCH) and Bill Carr (Texas Natural Hcnlagc Program) supplied
information on the dislribulion of (^//(Tr//.v arAY//i.sYi/;(^;. J.W. Hardin (NCSC), Richard
Jensen (ND), and Julia Larkc (Louisiana Natural Hcnlagc Program), confirmed the
MacRobcrLses' initial idcnlification. Hum's research was supported by NSF Grant
BSR-8414419 to David E. Giannasi and Da\id M. Hunt. Thanks are due to Lon
