Phylologia (July 1995) 79(l);28-30.
A NEW COMBINATION IN MUHLENBERGIA (POACEAE)
Clifford W. Morden
Department of Botany £ind Center for Conservation Research and Training, 3 190
Maile Way, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii 96822 U.S.A.
cmorden@uhunix.uhcc.hawaii.edu
ABSTRACT
Systematic analyses of morphological and anatomical variation among
populations of Muhlenbergia villiflora and M. villosa indicate that there is
insufficient differentiation to warrant recognition of these taxa as separate
species. The new combination of M. villiflora var. villosa is proposed as
a more appropriate means of recognizing the habitat preference and slight
differences in spikelet size that distinguish these taxa. Nomenclatural data and
a key to the varieties are provided.
KEY WORDS: Muhlenbergia, Poaceae, systematics
Species of the MuMenbergia repens Hitchc. complex are distnbuted throughout
North America (excluding the southeastern United States), and in the Andean
highlands of South Amenca. This complex consists of eight species characterized by a
rhizomatous perennial habit with short culms seldom exceeding 20 cm, short involute
leaf blades, and a short contracted panicle with awnless or mucronate spikclets. Two
species, M. villiflora Hitchc. and M. villosa Svvallen, differ from the others by having
a densely villous lemma and palca. These species appear distinct from each other in
that M. villosa is slightly larger in all morphological attributes including plant height,
leaf size, inflorescence length, and spikelet length. Their distnbution and habitat
requirements are also distinct; M. villiflora is an ecological dominant in gypsum soils
of northern Mexico, and M. villosa is locally sporadic to common in alkaline or
calcareous soils of west Texas and New Mexico.
Morphological and anatomical analyses of these two species (Morden 1985;
Morden & Hatch 1987) have shown that specific recognition of both taxa is not
warranted. Anatomically, these taxa arc indistinguishable (Morden & Hatch 1987),
and plants oi Muhlenbergia villiflora found growing along the margins of their natural
habitats {i.e., soils with a more abundant water supply or lower concentration of
gypsum) are larger, and approach M. villosa in most characteristics. Therefore, these
species are herein treated as a single species, M. villiflora, and the two forms are
recognized as varieties, var. villiflora and var. villosa (Swallcn) Mt)rdcn based on their
28
