Turner New f*aro«>'c/i/a from Mexico 41
ADDITIONAL COLLECTION EXAMINED: MEXICO. Veracruz; Mpio. dc
Perote, Totalco, "Orilla de camino", 2300 m, 7 Jul 1970, F. Ventura A. 1537
(LL,US).
Paronychia hintoniorum is clearly related to P. mexicana Hemsl. but is markedly
different in leaf shape and vestiture (oblanceolate, glabrous, and acute to obtuse
apically, vs. linear-lanceolate, markedly hirsute and apices spinulose, respectively),
and larger glabrous calyces (3.5-4.0 mm long vs. 1.4-2.0 mm) having ribbed lobes
(vs. nearly ri bless and pubescent).
Both of the above cited collections occur along the periphery of the known range
of Paronychia mexicana and because of their marked differences are unlikely to be but
forms of the latter. I wrote to the Hinton family, upon whose rancho the type
collection was made (c/ p. 31, this issue), asking them to examine populations at the
type locality, especially to ascertain if it might not be weedy at this site. George
Hinton, the grandson of the legendary Mexico collector, George B. Hinton,
responded:
I went back to the locality of the Paronychia and observed the following: it
grows at the base of a limestone hill in colonies of Agave lechuguilla. In these
colonies it grows with Acacia sp., Acalypha tnonostachya, Bahia absinthifolia,
Berberis trifoliolata, Dyschorisle schiedeatia, Ep/iedra aspera. Flourensia
cernua, Gymnosperma glutinosum, Loeselia caerulea, Mortonia palmeri,
Opuntia phaeacantfia. Yucca filifera. Less frequently it grows as above with
A. striata instead of A. lechuguilla. Its habit is procumbent although it
frequently climbs up on the plants around it. The stems are about 0.25 m; the
ones I sent you are much smaller because of the difficulty of getting your hand
down to the base of the plant thru the Agave. I collected about 12 sheets, with
several complete plants which I will send you when dry. It only grows in the
agave patches, and these are strung for about 120 m. along the base of the hill.
It doesn't appear to be a weed.
He also sent additional sterile material which matched that of previous collections.
1 am aware of the wide geographical gap between the only two sites know n lor this
species (Figure 2). The Veracruz specimens arc, except for their somewhat smaller
leaves and more llonfcrous condition, almost exactly like that of type malcnal. Label
data on Ventura's specimen report the plant as "crece en lugares desp>ejados;
abundantcs". Veracruz populations of Paronychia hintoniorum arc kxxited near
populational sites of P. mexicana, the latter readily recognized by the characters
alluded to in the above account. It is perhaps tempting to believe that P. hintoniorum
might be but a populational growth form of P. mexicana; if so, then these must rank as
among the most remarkable populational segregates within a single species to my
knowledge. In any case, comparable matcnal was not delected elsewhere among the
broad range of P. mexicana examined in this study. Indeed, Chaudhn (1968)
recognized two subspecies under /'. mexicana, one of these with two \anelies. I
examined type material of these taxa and all are essentially alike (except for variation in
stamen number, a \ariablc organ set as noted by Core [1943]). Apparently, Chaudhn
did not examine matenal o( v\hat is here called P. hintoniorum or else he would ha\c
