44 PHYTOLOGIA July 1995 volume 79(1 ):43-46
airpopodia bene evoluta, annulata; pappi setae capillares, numerosae candidae,
6—7 mm longae, marginibus (praecipue infeme) scabridiusculae.
Tree 3-5 m high. Stems (terminal), abruptly fore-shortened, the bark
semisucculent, and the interior with hard woody tissue, the latter suffused with
resinous cells. Mature leaves alternate, densely velvety-tomentose, deciduous at
anthesis, leaving a pronounced scar; petioles 3-5 cm long; blades broadly ovate to
deltoid, pinnately nervate, 10-20 cm long, 3-7 cm wide, moderately tomentose on
both surfaces, the margins irregularly lobate. Capitulescence a terminal, ovoid or
trianguloid, corymbose panicle of numerous (50-100) heads, the ultimate peduncles
tomentose, mostly 3-8 mm long. Involucres cylindrocampanulate, the inner bracts 8,
lanceolate, 6-7 mm long, 1-2 mm wide, tomentose, glabrate with age, the margins
white-chartaceous. Receptacle ca. 2 mm across, epaleate, alveolate. Ray florets
absent. Disk florets 8-10 per head; corollas reportedly white, glabrous, 7-9 mm long;
tubes 4-5 mm long; the throat 2-4 mm long, irregularly lobed, the lobes 2-3 mm long,
apparently lactiferous. Achenes (immature) columnar, ca. 2.5 mm long, glabrous;
carpopodia well-developed, annulate; pappus of numerous white capillary bristles 6-7
mm long, the margins minutely scabridulale, especially below.
Label data describe the tree as 3 m high having white corollas and yellow stamens.
It also states that the plant occurs in tropical deciduous forests and is "mass bien
escasa". Calzada, who collected the type, revisited the site and tree concerned in July
of 1995 {Calzada s.n. [TEX]) so as to collect mature leaves (not shown in Figure 1);
leaf measurements in the present description were obtained from this collection. Jos6
Panero, who also visited the site concerned, states (pers. comm.):
The new Pittocaulon is a very remarkable plant. It is a small tree of the
tropical deciduous forest. It can grow to 5 m tall. The leaves are kind of gray-
green, somewhat silvery. The plant is an inhabitant of rocky, limestone
outcrops. 1 first saw the plant in March of this year and asked Ismael
[Calzada] to collect it. At first, I thought it was going to be a weird
Parthenium, later I was surprised to see it was a Senecio.
It grows with iroxinus purpusii, Conzattia nmltiflora, Xylosma
flexuosum, Schoepfio ..rgulata, Erytlirina [)etrea, Croton sp., Jatrop/ia sp.,
Bunchosia irifoliata, Querciis glaucoides, among others.
As noted by Panero, this is a remarkable Pittocaulon, the latter a generic segregate
from Senecio first propxised by Robinson & Brettell (1973), who recognized five
species in the genus, all confined to south-central Mexico. Jeffrey (1992) also
recognized the genus as distinct, emphasizing its subumbellate inflorescences, cortical
resin ducts and palmately veined leaves. Barkley (1985), however, retained
Pittocaulon in Senecio (s.l.) although he now accepts its generic status (pers. comm.).
Pittocaulon calzadanwn has a corymbose-paniculate capitulescence, pinnately \'eined
leaves, eradiate heads, and relatively deeply lobed, while corollas. In short, a very
different looking Pittocaulon than those described to date. When I I irsl examined the
plant I took it to be, because of its narrow white discoid heads, a species of Digiticalia,
but the woody habit, abruptly foreshortened stems, semisucculent bark and attainment
of anthesis before the leaves appear, strongly suggest that it belongs to the Pittocaulon
