Chemnick & Gregory: New species of Ceratozamia 53
with small pockets of remnant primary forest now covered mostly by coffee and
banana groves and secondary growth. The patchy canopy consists of emergent trees
to 40 m covered with epiphytes. Ceralozainia whitelockiana occurs on heavily shaded
east- and west-facing slopes in primary forest with Chamaedorea sp., Geonoma sp.,
Melastorna spp., Acanthus sp., Ficus sp., Begonia sp., Selaginella sp. Soil is light-
colored crumbly, rocky clay with outcroppings of sedimentary rock. Ceratozamia
whitelockiana growing in exposed, deforested areas have extremely bleached, yellow
leaves. The entire locality is rapidly being cleared and burned and thus this cycad must
be considered endangered. In our most recent survey of the locality in May, 1995 we
found approximately 250 plants during 3 days of field work. The same areas were
visited several times in 1979, 1980, and 1981 and the population of Ceratozamia
whitelockiana was considerably larger then, perhaps by twice as many individuals.
Since this cycad is seldom seen in collections, it appears that habitat destruction is the
greatest threat to its existence. The more inaccessible reaches of the Rio Valle
Nacional drainage are likely to contain many pocket populations of Ceratozamia
whitelockiana but the rapid rate of deforestation will soon reach areas that are currently
inaccessible. In May 1995, the smoke from clearing fires was intense and recently
cleared fields, as evidenced by still fresh, charred remains, were spread throughout the
drainage like a patchwork quill. This cycad does not seem to persist in open situations
or in second growth forest for very long. The only plants we found in cleared areas
were artificially maintained by local fanners and appeared bleached and chlorotic.
RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER SPECIES OF CERATOZAMIA AND DISCUSSION
The current state of taxonomy within the genus Ceratozamia is confused,
zmibiguous, and incomplete. Three of the most widespread taxa, both in the wild and
in cultivation, C. rnexicana Brongniart (Vovides et al. 1983; Stevenson et at. 1986),
C. robusta Miquel (Vovides et al. 1983; Stevenson et al. 1986), and C. latifolia
Miquel (Vovides et al. 1983; Ste\'cnson et al. 1986) are based on vague and obscure
descriptions and neotypifications. Locality information is either non-exislenl or too
generalized. Important morphological data such as male and female cone descriptions
arc incomplete or omitted. When considered from historical pcrspectnc, the
neotypifications assign the above specific epithets to localities of Ceratozamia which
do not neccssanly correspond to the most likely localities where the onginal authors
and collectors might have been in (he mid l8(X)'s when access into Mexico was much
more restricted than today. The many isolated populations, forms, ecolypcs, and
varieties of the large-leaved Ceratozamia have been treated \Mthin the above three taxa
with apparently little regard {ov valid character differences that in some cases mighl
suggest separation at the species level.
Ceratozamia whitelockiana is distinguished from the other large-leaved
Ceratozamia as follows: C. rnexicana has smooth, dark brown, globose stems to I m
tall and 20cm in diameter; numerous, glabrous, dark-grccn, arching iea\cs which arc
heavily armed with numerous spines; mcgaslrobili which are on average 35 cm long
and 12 cm in diameter borne on a peduncle 10 cm long; microsliobiii which arc on
average 38-43 cm long and 7-8 cm in diameter borne on a peduncle 8-10 cm k)ng and
2.5 cm in diameter. Ceratozamia whitelockiana has rough, cylindncal reddish stems
that are much smaller than C. rnexicana and its few, sparsely-armed, upright,
glaucous, pea-green leaves with long petioles are strikingly different than the lca\cs ot
C. rnexicana as are the much smaller male and female cones of C. whitelockiana.
