Chemnick & Gregory: New species of Ceratozamia 55
Ceratozamia latifolia stems are globose, light brown, and frequently sucker,
especially in cultivation; leaves are 90-150 cm; leaflets are coriaceous, unequally
attenuate, slightly overlapping, 20-30 cm long and 33-43 mm wide. Ceratozpmia
whitelockiana stems arc solitary, even in cultivation; leaves are 2.0-2.5 m long; leaflets
are papyraceous, 30-50 cm long, 30-38 mm wide, and not overlapping.
Ceratoza/nia robusta has very large stems to 1.5 m, numerous, heavily-armed,
glabrous dark-green leaves to 2.25 m, megastrobili on average 38 cm long and 15.25
cm in diameter borne on a jxduncle 7.5 cm long and 28 mm m diameter, microstrobili
45 cm long and 8 cm in diameter. Ceratozamia whitelockiana is a much different plant
than C. robusta based on many characteristics, but especially in the detail of the male
and female cones which, as reproductive structures, are characters of the highest
weight.
We stress the differences between these two taxa because in Stevenson el al.
(1986), figure 7, indicates three populations of Ceratoza/nia robusta in north central
Oaxaca. One of these populations appears to occur in the drainage of the Rio Valie
Nacional. Similarly, in their paper on the distribution of Ceratozamia, Moretti el al.
(1980), figure 1, identifies several papulations in northern Oaxaca belonging to the C.
mexicana complex. The localities are not described in the detailed text that precedes
the illustration but the placement of one of those populations would appear to be in the
Rio Valle Nacional drainage. We have searched extensively for other Ceratozamia in
the drainage of the Rio Valle Nacional, from the municipality of Valle Nacional up to
2,200 meters but have only found C. whitelockiana.
It is noteworthy that Ceratozamia whitelockiana, C. robusta, and C. mexicana
retain their respective phenotypes even when cultivated for many years under varying
conditions. We have grown all three taxa for over fourteen years and found that
cultivated individuals are easily distinguished. We make this observation with respect
to remarks in Stevenson et al. (1986a) regarding the validity of C. microstrobila
Vovides & Rees. Stevenson et al. ( 1986a) assert that C. latifolia and C. microstrobila.
arc the same because "when cultivated in conditions of high moisture and deep shade,
plants assignable to C. microstrobila 'turn into' plants of C. latifolia. Conversely,
when plants assignable to C. latifolia are exposed to conditions that are dry with high
light intensity, ihcy 'turn into' plants of C. microstrobila. In our opinion, the plants
that ha\e been referred to C. microstrobila are nothing more than forms of C. latifolia
that are phenotypical expressions of environmental conditions. Therefore, uc
recognize only C. latifolia and consider C. microstrobila to be a synonym." However,
a careful character examination of these two taxa reveals a host of differences that
justify separation at the species lc\cl. We ha\e similarly cultivated both taxa for
seventeen years and have observed cultivated specimens of numerous individuals of
both taxa in other gardens and collections, and have ne\er seen the alleged change of
phenotypic expression whereby one taxon "turned into" the other, regardless of
whether the indixiduals were grown in full sun, heavy shade, or even in the
greenhouse. Therefore we reject the assertion that C. latifolia and C. microstrobila arc
synonymous but rather that each is a distinct species. Similarly, we reject any ad hoc
hypothesis that C. whitelockiana is merely an ecotype of C. robusta or C. mexicana.
Ceratozamia miqueliana has 7- 10 leaves that are distinctively different from those
of C. whitelockiana. The leatlels are fewer (about 15 pairs), wider (60-65 mm).
