56 PHYTOLOGIA July 1995 volume 79(1) -.5 1-57
unequally and abaipUy attenuate. The petiole is heavily armed with long, curved
spines which is in stark contrast to that of C. whitelockiana, which is much longer
overall and sparsely armed with much shorter spines. However, there are many
similarities between C. whitelockiana and C. miqueliana that suggest an affinity
between the two taxa Both species have subterranean to shortly arborescent stems of
similar size, shape, and color; each with rough, wrinkled, irregulai leaf bases and
brownish-red cataphylls. Both species have juvenile and adult emergent foliage which
is a very distinctive glaucous, pea-green color which matures into papyraceous,
slightly revolute leaflets. The mature foliage retains the glaucous coating for some
time, eventually giving way to a more glabrous, medium green color in old age. Male
and female cones of both taxa are of similar size. The megastrobilus in C miqueliana
averages 1 1 cm long and 6.5 cm wide and is borne on a short peduncle 30 mm long.
In C whitelockiana, it averages 15 cm long and 8 cm wide and is borne on a short
peduncle 30-38 mm long. The microstrobilus is 20 cm long and 4.5 cm wide in C.
miqueliana and 26 cm long and 25 mm wide in C. whitelockiana. The closest
population of C. miqueliana to C. whitelockiana is approximately 150 km.
Since cytological and genetic evidence currently does not yield any measurable
character differences upon which to base species differentiation within the genus
(Walters et al. 1991), classic taxonomic consideration of characters and weighting of
those characters is our basis for conferring sp>ecific status to Ceratozarnia
whitelockiana and assigning it to the "miqueliana group" which also includes the
various forms of C. miqueliana and C. euryphyllidia Vazquez Torres, Sabato, &
Stevenson. It is our hope that workers will continue to investigate Ceralozamia in
detail to determine the disposition of the many populations and types currently being
lumped into vaguely conceptualized and incompletely described taxa that generate
confusion and uncertainty rather than create the order, predictability, and sense that
responsible taxonomy is supposed to serve.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We are grateful to Sherwin Carlquist and Dieler Wilken for reviewing the
manuscript and providing valuable assistance. We are indebted to Jim Melli for
providing the illustrations and to Loran Whilelock for providing details of cone
dimensions.
LITERATURE CITED
Morclli, A., M. Vazquez-Torres, & S. Sabato. 1980. The distribution of Ceratozoiniu
Brongn. (Zamiaceae). Delpmoa 21: 13-21.
Stevenson, D.W., S. Sabato, & M. Vazquez-Torres. 1986a. A new species of
Ceratozaiuia (Zamiaceae) from Veracruz, Mexico with comments on species
relationships, habitats, and vegetative morphology in Ceralozamia. Brittonia
38: 17-26.
