Turner Obituary for R.F. Daubenmire 59
fashion, usually a slip-over, much-abused sweater, baggy pants and coat, that looked
slept in, occasionally an off-angled mussed tie, and large military-type shoes in
various stages of repair. In short. Dauby believed in appearances; Art did not. Like
their attires, they were antagonists, but most of the antagonism drifted downward from
Dauby. I can still recall a brief statement or two made to himself by Dauby upon
hearing the approach of Art along the lower floor of the botany building as Dauby
ascended the stairs leading to the second floor, myself along his side. Cronquist, with
his six foot eight inch Swedish frame, would usually enter the building with a large
booming voice singing whatever song entered his mind, operetta or ballad. On this
particular day it was "Oh, she jumped in bed and covered up her head and said 1
couldn't find her. . .." and carried on through the whole verse (which 1 myself sang
upon occasion, having learned it as a teenager in Texas). Dauby paused for a second,
looking at me with grimaced eyes and no smile, saying 'That man! God, that man!"
Then he trudged on up to the second floor with a perplexed expression.
In Dauby's formal undergraduate lectures he spoke at a slow clip, very precisely,
everything biological presented as black or white, with little, if any, gray areas. He
drew precise figures on the chalk board and labeled their parts with easily read names.
Excellent teacher, answering questions from the floor briefly but adequately.
In upper undergraduate and graduate level courses he was less effective. For
example, in autecology, having written the text himself. Dauby did not feel it
necessary to lecture on the subject, rather he would meet his classes so as to answer
questions about any ambiguities in the text chapters, which we were all expected to
have pored over prior to attendance. Most of these classes lasted 10-15 minutes,
though sometimes they were prolonged by an overly querulous student. This
permitted him to shorten his teaching load and retire to his office (door neariy always
closed) so that he might get on with his research or textbook writings.
Dauby took a different tack for his course in synecology (lectures from u hich he
was hoping to develop a text on the subject, and did). He often became rather
enlivened by his own spontaneous insights into the field of community ecology,
holding forth on succession. Us history, companng community classification to
systematic classification, but always with the admonition to accept such comparisons
as "analogous to," not "the same as," etc. At such times he could be brilliant, but,
sadly, he often l(x)k himself tcx) seriously. Indeed, I think he did so much of the time,
for he seemed to lack a sense of humor, at least where hjs utterances about ecology
were concerned.
To give an example: holding forth on the contribution of F.E. Clements to the
field of ecology, especially as regards climax concepts. Dauby suddenly became
reiterative, staling that the trouble with Amencan ecology was that everything
important in the field of synecology was discovered by ClemenLs, so much so that one
might characlenze its hislor\' as "Before Clements, B.C., B.C., B.C. . .." he finally
added, "before Christ" with a full grin, Cheshire-like, something unusual for him;
clearly, he much appreciated his effective presentation and original commentary. The
class (about 6(), mostly graduate students from several disciplines, lor Dauby's classes
were very popular) laughed appreciatively, including myself, but 1 raised my hand
almost immediately after his nveting delivery and interjected rather loudly, and wiih
much glee, and some laughter, "I now take it we're entenng A.D., after Daubenmire!"
