60 PHYTOLOGIA July 1995 volume 79(1): 58-64
Instead of appreciating my joshing spontaneity, he became suddenly furious. Red
faced and with grin-turned scowl, he ordered me out of the classroom "Out," he said,
"Get out." The class was bewildered, for they had all chortled loudly at my retort, so
was I, for I never meant to be disrespectful, merely entertaining, attempting to add to
the pedagogic verbalization he'd seized upon.
I did leave the class as instructed, very embarrassed of course, although pleased
that my peers had perceived my spontaneous remarks as somehow appropriate.
Afterwards I tried to apologize to Dauby, but he would have none of it, although he
did relent and permitted me back in his class the following week.
My interpersonal relationships with Dauby were largely developed because of my
interest and background in plant systematics. 1 believe he sought out my conversation,
both during field courses in connection with his formal classes in synecology, where
sack lunches were the rule, and following this or that class lecture in which allusions
were made to the views of systematists generally. I believe he mostly wanted feed-
back on his many attempts to make plant community classification "analogous" to
organismal classification. "But they are very different," I would assert, "Community
ecologists do not have evolutionary theory as a direct underpinning by which to
arrange and classify." "Ah," he would respond, "communities evolve, they are made
up of plants and animals, all of which coevolve," etc. And he would usually wrap up
the conversation pretty quickly with terse sentences that made his points; (Dauby
would have made an excellent trial lawyer speaking before an educated jury). Deep
down, I think he knew these analogies were basically misleading, dishonest even, for
he not only was well aware of Gleason's (a systematist!) individualistic concepts on
community structure but, at the time also coexisted with Prof. R.H. Whitaker, his
nemesis at Washington State University during my formative years there.
Like most academic professionals. Dauby had considerable concern about his
standing in the field of plant ecology, especially as f)erceived by his peers. I remember
well his deep sense of betrayal by the ecological community, if not the man, when the
article by Frank Egler, "A commentary on American plant ecology, based on the
textbooks of 1947-1949," first appeared in the October, 1951 issue of Ecology (32:
673-695). Egler, a very perceptive, erudite, human, to judge from his well-turned
article, compared the ecological texts of F.E. Clements, Dynamics of Vegelalion,
1949; H.J. Oosting, The Study of Plant Communities, 1948; and Daubenmirc, Plants
and Environment {A Text Book of Plant Ecology). Not only did Egler compare these
texts (as indicators of the state of American plant ecology and its development over
half a century), he also commented rather freely on the psyches of the authors
concerned, especially as related to their academic beginnings. In preparing the present
"obit", 1 re-read Egler's article (after a 44 year hiatus!) and it stills reads as I remember
it from my first reading in 1951: a very personal evaluation by a highly skilled
communicator with a broad grasp of his field. And he was cleariy aware of the
controversial nature of his commentanes, noting in his "Posllude," near the end of his
article:
1 have been accused in this manuscnpl, both of being holier-than-thou, and
of being satanic. With either accusation, 1 plead that to be both forceful and
modest at the same time is a difficult task. If 1 appear to claim that I can see
•farther and from greater hcighLs than some others, it is only - to use Newton's
oft-quoted analogy - that those few cubits of stature ha\e been attained by
