Turner Obituary for R.F. Daubcnmirc 61
climbing on the backs of giants. The giants are there for others to climb, even
though the shoulders may bear us ungraciously.
In the fall of 1951 I was enrolled in Daubenmire's course in autecology, for which
his text was mandatory, as noted above. 1 had not given much thought aa to how the
text might have been written, but after reading Egler's comments, I developed a greater
interest in Dauby's style.
Dauby was undoubtedly flattered that Egler possibly ranked him as among the
"giants" of American ecology, but Egler was surely correct that the "shoulders [of
such workers] may bear us ungraciously." At least that seemed true of Dauby, who
brought up Egler's article time and again during the late fall of 1951, complaining that
the editors of Ecology should ever have published such a commentary. But what most
galled him was Egler's paragraph on Dauby's "style of writing," which, in contrast
with Clement's style, was said to have
. . . succeeded to a high degree in developing a terseness, a paucity of
words, a fact-crammed grammatical structure that is the goal of many a
scientific writer. It is as functional, as devoid of decorative flourishes and
artistic ornamentation as the layercake skyscrapers built lately in New York.
As was said by the romanticist against the classicist, his wnting had become
correct and soulless, learned and uninspiring, scientific and godless, virtuous
and cold. One can almost imagine that this author, beginning with terse
abbreviated lecture notes, kept building through the years in card-catalogue
style, inserting abstracts and summaries in their appropriate places as the new
literature appeared. For these reasons, the book will long serve as a well-
organized reference work for the American literature on the effects of
environmental factors on plants.
And that was the way he lectured Icki, in tolh undergraduate and graduate courses,
except in his autecology course, in which he never lectured, as noted in the above (the
text seemingly written from abbreviated sentences on stacks of cards) with practically
no sidebar diversions, c\cn when controversy arose from among the students. And,
too, that was the way he must have composed his ic.M on Plant Geography (Academic
Press, 1978). 1 allcndcd his first class towards this new tcxlb(x-)k venture in the spring
of 1953, just before my doctoral defense scheduled for thai same semester. My final
personal msighls into the man's ouvre and psyche involves that class.
1 truly looked forward to Dauby's course. Havmg had a firm background in h<Mh
plant geography and geology as a result of my master's work at Southern Methtxlisl
University in 1949-5(), to say nothing of my courses in geomorphology and genetics
at W.S.U., 1 felt pnmed and excited. Dauby even questioned my "need" to take his
course, especially since 1 had made top grades in neariy all of my courses, and he was
well aware oi my conversational ability in syslematics generally. "Concentrate on
your doctoral thesis" he ad\ised, knowing thai 1 was scheduled lo finish that same
semester. But I told him my ihcsis was e.s.scntiaJly w nlicn and ihal i would lrul\ ciijdn
the class, etc. As a member ol' my doclorai committee, he rclcnlcd.
Everything went line in ihe course on Plant Geography. Dauby each day pcrtcclh
poised and academic, co\enng the topic from 5x8 cards with infi)nnation not
especially new or novel, throwing in this or that study called to the lore since Cain's
