62 PHYTOLOGIA July 1995 volume 79(l):58-64
fine text on the subject, Foundations of Plant Geography, which first appeared in
1944. Nothing new really, until suddenly one day he digressed. Lecturing upon the
origin of American deserts and their likely age, he bedazzled me (but perhaps not the
class) with his observation that the deserts had developed very recently in North
America, and that their Horas were probably derived out of mostly recently extinct if
not extant elements of the more temperate Artemisia shrublands and grasslamds of the
western Rocky Mountains, if not from conifer forests. The kingpin in this hypothesis,
he reckoned, was the fossil Opuntia described by Chaney from the Green River shales
of Utah, "the earliest and perhaps only fossil cactus from the New World" he noted.
"We have to be objective and acknowledge the evidence," he continued, drawing the
words out tersely, and afterwards donning that smug Gioconda smile he was so adept
at when playing his verbal trump cards.
I disagreed, of course, noting in class, lawyer-like perhaps, that all of the fioristic
evidence argued against his views: the Cactaceae is not well developed in temp>erate
North America, anyway, if an Opuntia had happened to become fossilized in Eocene
time, then it merely proved the cacti had been around for eons, and that the center of
diversity of cacti in North America lay to the south in Arizona, New Mexico, Texas,
mostly subtropical regions, much as suggested by Chaney in his paf>er, and what
about Fouquieria, Idria (both belonging to the Fouquieriaceae, a family of only two
genera confined to the hot deserts of North America without clear familial relationship
elsewhere) and many other genera too numerous to mention, to say nothing of the
genus Larrea which dominates the deserts of two continents, etc. On like that I held
forth, and Dauby fumed, even entered this fray with a dead look of castigation. "I
stand on the fossil data" he said, but noting at the same time that the state of Rorida
hcis as many cacti nearly as Arizona or New Mexico, and "certainly Florida is not a
desert." "But the Florida cacti mostly belong to the genus Opuntia" I said, "many of
these, if not most, of recent introduction or else the results of Small's taxonomic
splitting of this or that variable entity. Anyway," I retorted, "The cacti of Florida, so
far as evidence bearing on the age and origin of the family Cactaceae, is meaningless."
And I forget, now, how our 15 minute debate went, but it ended with a stony silence
on Dauby's part, and "1 wish you weren't here" - look and an early closure of the
lecture for that day.
After that venture into Dauby's card session, upon the advice of my graduate
student peers, I kept strictly quiet, dutifully recording his lectures in my own
shorthand in preparation for our final exam, which was sex)n upon us.
The exam was well-structured, very fair, and straightforward, as were all of the
exams in the four courses 1 took from him. But for me, on this particular exam, there
was a problem. Dauby asked the question (assigning it 10 points): Give the age and
origin of the family Cactaceae (not worded so as to be answered, according to
Daubenmire !). Nevertheless, I placed in the appropriate space provided the answer
according to Daubenmire, recounting his views very nicely 1 thought. But at the
bottom of my answer 1 wrote "This is the answer which you might wish. Dr.
Daubenmire, but for the correct answer, see the backside of this sheet." There 1
defended rny point of view (and those of many others) regarding this issue.
When the final exam was graded and the semester grades posted, 1 was surprised
to see that 1 had received a 90 on my final exam (the entire cactus question graded as
incorrect) and a B in the course. I inquired of him why he did not accept my answer to
