Turner. Obituary for R.F. Daubenmire 63
the cactus question concerned. His response was "Well, Turner, you got the answer,
but you didn't believe it, or else why did you give an additional answer on the back
side of the sheet; in short, you only get to give one answer, not two, that's why you
missed the whole question!"
"OK," I said, "But what about the B in the course. I had A's in my earlier exams,
and a low A (90) on the final, why a B? Other students with much lower averages
received A's [I'd made comparisons among my peers]." "Well," he responded, "let's
put it this way, you got a B for Bad Behavior," his eyes full on me dead as a desert
duck, no water anywhere.
"Fine," I responded, laughing, "now that I know the standards I won't complain,
considering the criteria I'm sure I got it fairly." That was one of the few B's I received
in my university education and one that I am proudest of.
But the cactus question did not end there. Daubenmire attended my final defense
(of a systematic thesis, a cytotaxonomic study of the genus Hymenopappus). After
most of my committee members had finished asking this or that question. Dauby, who
had said nothing to this point, suddenly said, "Turner, when and where do you think
the Cactaccae arose?" I was taken aback, but rising to the occasion (I hoped then), I
said strongly and affirmatively, without a glimmer of a smile, "Well, Dr. Daubenmire,
do you want my answer, or yours?"
Dauby looked very distressed at my response, folded his papers, got up from the
large table which was surrounded by about ten professors, and left the room. He did
not approve my performance, but (so I was told) the upper administration, appraised
his evaluation negatively and I passed my defense without undue rancor.
As a postscript to the cactus story recounted above, 1 can't help but add that the
fossil Opitntia described by Chancy from the fossil beds was, some 18 years later,
found to be to a fossilized rhizome and associated root system of a monocot, possibly
a sedge (Becker 1962). Upon reading this "inspiring" revelation I sent copy of the
article to Dauby, with a little memo, merely stating, "Remember this?" He never
responded. Nor did he include an account of his views on the origin of the Cactaceae
in his text on Plant Geography. Indeed, published some 25 years after that first class
on the subject, Dauby's outUx^k re American deserts changed considerably, even
introducing in his text some of the very same views which I propounded in his first
course on the subject.
I hope the above account is not viewed by the reader as a "get-even" article. It is
not intended as such (to my knowledge). Rather, I hope in this telling to capture an
aspect of the man not generally known. Like most of us he had a mixture of traits
some admirable, some not. But, surely some of these affected his research and
teaching. In fact, 1 consider him with his often adamant \ icus and determination to be
the foremost ccologi.st in Amcnca (during his heyday) the essential ingredients of most
successful .scientists. E\cn at the time I admired his compctitisc personality, although
disagreeing, upon (Kcasion, with his behavior. Certainly he was one of the most
organized, clearly fcKuscd graduate level teachers to position information in my neural
lodgings.
