PHYTOLOGIA July 1995 volume 79(1): 1-4
This species is similar to Anredera marginata, from which it differs in having
always obovate leaves (even in the flowering portion of the stem), nearly sessile
flowers that are slightly larger than A. marginata, and flared styles.
Unlike most species of Anredera this plant is scarcely twining, a character which is
constant when the plant is cultivated in the greenhouse. In the greenhouse it is more
difficult to propagate, being much slower in forming adventitious roots from cuttings
than any other species of Anredera.
The species was collected growing alongside Anredera ramosa (Moq.) Eliasson
and in the same general area where the type specimen of A. tucumanensis was
collected by Mandon. The type collection was observed being visited by flies, which
are the presumed pollinators.
One collection from Bolivia may be this species: BOLIVIA, near La Paz, 10,000
ft., Oct. 1885, Rusby 2570 (NY two sheets, F). It has a similar pedicel and pedicellar
bracts, but the leaves are lacking. Fruits cire present in this specimen (enclosed in the
nigrescent perianth); because the type collection lacks fruits a comparison can not be
made. The petals of the Rusby collection are slightly smaller, and most of the flowers
on the sheets are in poor condition.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I thank David Lellinger for editing the two Latin descriptions and reviewing the
paper, and Dan Nicolson for his review and suggestions.
LITERATURE CITED
Brako, L. & J.L. Zarucchi. 1993. Catalogue of the Flowenng Plants and
Gymnosperms of Peru. Monogr. Svst. Bot. Missouri Bol. Gard. 45: i-xl, 1-
1286.
Brummitt, R.K, & C.E. Powell (Eds.). 1992. Authors of Phml Names. Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kcvv, Great Bnlain.
Moquin-Tandon, C.H.B.A. 1849. Baseilaceae in Alph. dc Candollc, Prodroinus
Sysleinalis Naturalis Regni Vegelabilis 13(2): 220-230.
Nowicke, J.W. In press. Pollen morphology, exinc structure and the relationships of
Baseilaceae and Didiereaceae to Porlulacaceae. Sysl. Bol.
Sperling, C.R. 1987. Systemalics of the Baseilaceae. Ph.D. Dissertation, Haivard
University. UMI Dissertation Information Service, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
