I I 11 M. M. Cbakravarfc] — New inscriptions of BhuvaneSvar. [June & July,
H. II. The Maharaja Pratap Narain Singh of Ajodhya, proposed by
C. R. Wilson, Esq , seconded by C. H. Tawney, Esq.
Samuel Charles Hill, Esq., Bengal Educational Service, proposed by
J. Crawfurd, Esq , seconded by Colonel J. Wafcerhouse.
Babu Asutosh Pramanick, Merchant, proposed by Babu Pratapa-
chandra Grhosha, seconded by Pandit Haraprasad Sastri.
The Rev. Henry Whitehead, M. A., Principal, Bishop's College,
proposed by The Rev. H. B. Hyde, seconded by C. R. Wilson, Esq.
The following gentleman has expressed a wish to withdraw from tho
Society : —
Dr. Aghore Chunder Chatterjee.
The Secretary reported the death of the following member : —
A. V. Nursing Row, Esq., F. R. A. S.
The Chairman reported that The Hen. Sir C. A. Elliott, Lieutenant-
Governor of Bengal, was willing to accept the office of President.
The Secretary read a circular from the Royal Society of New South
Wales, enumerating prizes to be given for original researches on certain
subjects connected with Australia.
Tho following papers were read : —
1. Some new inscriptions of Bhuvanesvar, District Pari. — By Babu
Max Mohan Chakravarti, M. A., B. L., Subordinate Executive Service
of Bengal.
(Abstract).
This paper gave an account of several new stone inscriptions, found
at Bhuvanesvar, in the district of Pari, Bengal.
The inscriptions were 9 in number, viz. (A) one on the Parasuram-
esvar temple, (B) one on the Vaitala Deul, (C) seven on the Bara
Deul, or great tower of Bhuvanesvar.
(A) The first named temple was lying in a delapidated condition.
From its general shape, its scroll-work, its carvings of men, animals,
birds and plants, it could not be put later than the tenth century. Its
porch had three enhances. Immediately over the entrance from the
south were four lines in early Kutila characters, of which the purport
appeared to be that by order of the lord of S'ri-Kaliiiga, offerings were
made by one Vedacharya (probably a royal officer or puroh&ta) to
Parasesvar Bhattaka, a Brahmin. Apparently Bhuvanesvar, and probably
Orissa, was then under the rule of lvalinea kings.
(B) On the outside of the north wall of the porch of the Vaital
Deul were Eoui lines in Sanskrit character, Hie firs! two being the well-
known couplet written by copyists of Sanskrit manuscripts al the end of
