1892.] H. Beveridge — A note on the Par'ganas of Murshidabad, 141
their copies, to the effect that the letters should be "equal in size
even-headed, thick, and with spaces between."
Besides these four lines there were several single letters, perhaps
mason's letters, and at one place in Uriya character ^rrfsiTfrT JT^RfJT or
the lord of Kasi, the lord of elephants."
(C) The Bara Deal inscriptions were discovered by Babu M. M.
Chakravarti on the inside of the projecting walls of the porch, four
being on the south side, and three on the north. With the exception of
the lowermost one on the north side, the inscriptions belonged to the
reigns of three Orissan kings, Aniyahka Bhima Deva, Auahga Bhiiua
Deva, and Narasinha Deva.
The inscriptions recorded gifts to the temple, usually for the purpose
of lighting lamps.
The first inscription on the south side belonged to Nai^asiiiha Deva
IV, aud was dated, " Friday, the S'ukla eleddnsi of the month Makar in
the fourth anlca of the flourishing reign of Aninka Bhima Deva." This,
according to Babu M. M. Chakravarti's calculations, was equivalent to
Friday, 14th January, 1166 A. D., which would also agree with other
inscriptions of Narasiriha Deva IV, discovered by Babu M. M. Chakra-
varti. The second inscription on the north side was dated " Tuesday,
the Krishna pratipada of the month Dhanu, in S'akabda 11-10," which
was equivalent to Tuesday, 4th December, 1218 A. D.
In conclusion, the author of the paper invited the attention of
scholars to the rich mine of antiquities that still remained to bo
explored in and round Bhuvanesvar. These very inscriptions if carefully
transcribed either by patient comparison on the spot, or from faithful
ink impressions, would probably throw much light on the mediaeval
kings of Orissa. In spite of the researches of Stirling, Priusep, Hunter
and Rajendralala Mitra, the history of Orissa was very obscure. The
Madala Panji was still its main basis and the Madala Panji was a very
unsafe and confusing guide, being itself based on unsatisfactory, im-
perfectly recorded, and often contradictory traditions. The work
should be deposed from the high pedestal which it now occupied, and
placed in its proper rank, as a corroborative document only.
2. Is Mailapur the ancient Manipur of the Mahabharata ? — By S.
T. Krishnamacharyya, Esq., Attorney -at -I aw . Communicated by the
Philological Secretary.
3. The Korhus.—By W. H. P. Driver, Esq.
The papers will be published in the Journal, Part I.
4. A note on the Parrjanas of Murshidabad— By H. BEVERIDGE,
Esq., C. S.
In Akbar's reign, Bengal Proper was divided into 19 Sarkars
