142 H. Beveridge — A note on the Parganas of Murshidabad. [June & July,
containing 682 estates or parganas. This arrangement was made about
the year 1582, and is commonly ascribed to Rajah Todar Mai. Lists
of the contents of the Sarkars are given in the A'in, and Mr. Blochmann
made much use of them when he was elucidating the old geography
of Bengal. Unfortunately there are many errors in the MSS. of the
A'in. Sometimes these can be corrected by referring to the lists in
Tieffenthaler, but more effectual help is afforded by Grant's analysis
in the Fifth Report, and by local knowledge. Grant's lists are those
of Jaffar Khan's arrangement of 1722, but he also supplies the names
of the old Sarkars.
The object of this note is to compare the lists in the A'in with those
in the Statistical Account of Bengal. I only do this for Moorshidabad,
and 1 would suggest that similar comparisons be instituted for other
districts. In this way the lists might appear in a correct form in the
forthcoming translation of the second volume of the A'in.
The present district of Murshidabad is mainly comprised in Todar
Mai's Sarkar of Tandah, alias Andambar, alias Audner. This Sarkar
extended southwards from Agmahal, i. e., Rajmahal and included
parganas both in the Rarh and the Bagri, that is, on both sides of the
Bbagirathi, as far south as Chunakhali, or a little to the south of the
town of Murshidabad. The rest of the Rarh was included in Sarkar
Sharifabad. The remainder of the district, i. e., the portion lying south
and east of Chunakhali seems to have been included in Sarkars Mahmu-
dabad and Barbakabad. The pargana of Plassey in the extreme south
and which perhaps now wholly belongs to Nadia was included in Sarkar
Satg&on according to Grant. I cannot find it in the Ain, unless it is
the Belkasi which is there entered as included in Mahmudabad. Bel-
kasi is not very like Plassey, but in Tieffenthaler the name appears as
Belessi.
On comparing the lists in the Ain, pp. 394-408 with that in the
Statistical Account of Bengal, IX, 232-36, I find the following corres-
pondencies : —
I. Sak'kak Tandah, Ain, p. 304.
1. Ashraf Bhag. 11. Kasipur.
2. BuitaJi. 12. Katgarh.
3. Chang Nadiya. 13. Kumar Pratap
4. Chunakhali. 14. Mangalpur.
5. Daudshahi. 15. Nasibpur.
6. Dhawa. 16. Nawa Nagar.
7. Diwanaptxr. 17. Samaa IChani.
8. Gaukar. 18. Swarupsingh.
