2 Monshi Debiparsad — Account of an old inscription. [Jan.
The President announced that the Council had elected Mr. C. R.
Wilson to officiate as Philological Secretary and member of Council in
the place of Dr. Hoernle, while he was engaged with the publication of
the Bower Manuscript. Dr. Hoernle retains the numismatic work.
The following paper was read : —
An account of an old inscription. — By Monshi Debiparsad of Jodh-
poee. Communicated by The Philological Secretary.
(Abstract.)
This paper recorded the discovery of an old Sanskrit inscription in
the village of Bijapur in Marwar.
The inscription is engraved on a piece of black stone 2j ft. in length
and lj ft. in breadth. With the exception of a few places, where the
letters have been obliterated, the writing is quite legible and the mean-
ing clear.
The stone is said to have been taken from the door of a Jaina
temple which stands alone in the jungle, two or three miles from the
village of Bijapur, on the site of the old city of Hasti Kuridi now
called TIatundi.
The city lay on the borders of Mewar and Marwar, at the foot of the
Ara/ali hills. Remains of its walls may still be seen. They are thick
enough to allow a cart to be driven along the top of them.
It appeal's from the insciiption that the city of Hasti Kundi was
till the eleventh century of the Samvat the capital of a branch of the
Bdshfrakuta family, who reigned there in great splendour.
According to Monshi Debiparsad, the inscription mentions the follow-
ing kings : —
1. Raja Hurivarman.
2. Vidagdha Raja (son of Harivarman), a mighty king, who in
samvat 973 erected a great Jaina temple, and levied taxes in its behalf
• mi bis subjects and foreign traders.
3. hharala Jiaja (son of Vidagdha Rdja), who in samvat 990 doubled
these taxes, and who was ruling Rajputana with increased authority in
Bamvat 100.3, when the temple was restored by a leading Jaina com-
munity.
The inscription also mentions four other kings, who were tributaries
of Dhavala Hdja ; viz : —
t. 8'ri Munja, the conqueror of Meibdr.
5. Raja Dharanivardha, then a refugee at the court of Dhavala
(5. .1/ \la Bdja, the conqueror of Udja Dharanivardha.
7. 8'ri Durlabha Rdja, who was reigning in greal pomp and glory
