144 L. do Niceville — Note on three North Indian Butterflies. [June & Jilt,
siderable, and it would bo necessary to make many local inquiries in
order that the names of the parganas might be correctly given. But
they would be valuable historical documents. Perhaps Mr. Beames,
who lias already done something- for the geography of the Akbanniina,
might undertake the tusk.
5. Note on the Topography of the river in the \6th century from
the Hugli to the Sea as represented in the Da Asia of Be Barros. — By C.
R. Wilson, Esq., M. A.
The paper will be published in the Journal, Part I.
6. Note on three North Indian Butterflies — Euthalia nara, E. saha-
deva, and E. anyte. By Lionel de Nice'ville, F. E. S., C. M. Z. S.
~Eufha.Ha nara, Moore, E. sahadeva, Moore, and E. anyte, Hewitson,
have always proved to be puzzling species both to collectors and cabinet
naturalists. E. nara was described from a, female, E. sahadeva from a
male, and E. anyte also from a male. All three species occur in Sikkiin.
That region has been so thoroughly well worked ontomologieally of recent
years that it is inconceivable that the opposite sexes of three such large
butterflies should be still uncaptured, and, on looking over the material
at my disposal in consequence of the receipt of a letter from Mr. H. J.
Elwes, suggesting that E. sahadeva is the male and E. nara* the female of
one species, I find that I can discriminate the opposite sexes of all the
thi'ee species with ease. The short diagnoses given below will, I think,
enable any one having specimens of these species to distinguish between
them without difficulty. In " The Butterflies of India" I described as
the supposed male of E. nara, a specimen which now proves to be the
true female of E.nara; what I, at the time of writing, took to be
E. nara female turns out to be the true female of E. sahadeva. It is
strange that Mr. Elwes should have omitted E. anyte from his " Catalogue
of the Lepidoptera of Sikkim," as it has been recorded Erom thence mote
than once. In the Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1891, p. 279, Mr. Elwes
describes the supposed female of E. anyte * I am unable to follow his
description, nor can 1 agree with his conclusions, as I contend that
E. nara and E, anyte are female and male respectively of one and the same
species, which stands under the former name. Euthalia iva, Moore,
described as a male from Darjeeling, is probably a female, and has still to
be re-discovered.
* Since this article was pnl into type I have heard again Prom Mr. Elwes, and
he tells me that the specimens which lie tu..l, in i" 1 the Fi males of /■•'. nara are really
the opposite sex of E. sahadeva.
