1892.] C. R. Wilson— Note on the Riverside of Calcutta in 1788. 157
next owner of the property was Nanda's son Doyal Chanel Addy, who
was in his clay a distinguished resident of Calcutta. He was a tjreat
rider and kept a large stud of horses. I find his name in October 1806
as one of the signatories of an address to Sir Henry Russel then Chief
Justice of Bengal. Doyal Chand died in 1835. His son Babu Raj
Ballub Addy is still living and is an old man of 72. It is to him and to
Babu Gaurdas Bysack that I am indebted for my information about
this old Calcutta family. The three-storied Thakur Bari is not now in
existence. It is shown in Simms' Survey of Calcutta in 1849, but it has
since been pulled down, and the site sold and covered with huts and
sheds. The two-storied house is still standing in Dharmahatta Street
at the corner of Darpa Naraian Tagore's Street. The house is much
altered, but I have been all over it, and I am convinced that it is the
same house as that shown in the picture.
The little temple is also still standing, but is almost hidden away
from sight by a large shed belonging to Messrs. Ralli Bros, built close
np beside it and behind it. It is a temple of S'iva and belongs to a
Biswas family.
The picture shows at least two ghats. I am a little uncertain as to
their names. The one adjacent to the temple and immediately north of it
was called the Ram Sita Ghat ; the other to the south of this, according
to the maps of Wood and Upjohn, was called Hurreenant Dewan's Ghat
in 1785-95, but from some valuable maps which have been kindly lent
me by Babu Gaurdas Bysack it appears that in 1830 the Ram Sita
Ghat had disappeared and that the second ghat was called the Seebtolah
Ghat. This name, however, is given by Wood and Upjohn to another
ghat further north of this spot which seems also to have disappeared by
1830. There were therefore in 1788 three ghats near this place — the
Seebtolah Ghat, the Ram Sita Ghat and Hurreenant Dewan's Ghat.
The first two were subsequently done away with, and the name Seebtolah
was transferred to the third ghat.
The spire in the distance belongs to the Armenian Church. The
warehouses along the river side south of Jogul Kisore Addy's Thakur
Bari have mostly disappeared, many of them having been pulled down
to make room for the Mint.
The following papers were read : —
1. Notes on tlie old plans of Forts and Toims of the East l , India
Company preserved by the French at JPondicherry, — By G. W. Forrest,
Esq., B. A.
2. Note on the date of Nur Qutb Alam's death, — By H. Beveripge,
Esq., C. S.
The papers will be published in the Journal, Part I.
