158 L. de Niceville — Subgenus Stictoplcea of the genus Euploea. ("Ado.
3. Noto on the Indian and Malay Peninsula Butter/lies comprised in
the subgenus Stictoplcea of the gemis Euplcea. — By Lionel de Nice'yille,
Esq., F. E. S., C M. Z. S.
I recently received the following pathetic letter from the Rev.
Walter A. Hamilton : — " I am to-day Bending you by parcel-post a box
containing 500 specimens of Euploea from the Khasi Hills. Will you
kindly sort and name them for me ? I have had to give it up, having
nearly worn my eyes out in trying to discriminate between the various
described species, tho differences between which appear to be minute."
The collection on examination consisted practically of two species, and
as Mr. Hamilton was good enough to say I might keep any I required,
I sorted them very carefully, and picked out specimens of all such as
appeared to be in any way abnormal. I propose to deal in this Note
with the Stictoploeas. In Part VII of Mr. Moore's " Lepidoptera Indica"
six species are given from Sikkim, Assam, and Burma. I give below
a key to these species which graphically brings out the points on which
Mr. Moore relies in separating them.
Key to certain Indian species of tho subgenus STICTOPLCEA.
A. Upperside, forewing with numerous spots on tho disc in addition to tho submar-
ginal and marginal series.
a. Of large size ; upperside, hind wing with complete submarginal and mar-
ginal series of spots.
E. (Stictoplcea) hopei, Assam.
t>. Of small size ; upperside, hindwing in tho malo (as described) with three
submarginal spots only, (six marginal spots figured) ; female with addi-
tional marginal spots.
E. (Stictoplcea) pygm^a, Assam,
c. Of large size ; upperside, hindwing with three or two submarginal spots.
E. (Stictoplcea) binotata, Sikkim.
B. Upperside, forewing with no spots on the disc, submarginal and marginal series
of spots as in A.
a. Upperside, hindwing with complete submarginal and marginal series of
spots.
E. (Stictoplcea) habbisi, Burma.
b. Upperside, hindwing with throe submarginal spots.
E. (Stictoplcea) crowleyi, Burma.
c. Upperside, hindwing immaculate.
E. (Stictoplcea) begina, Assam.
In the work abovo referred to Mr. Mooro does not record E. harrisii
from tho Malay Peninsula, though he previously* gave Malacca and
Cochin China amongst other places as its habitat. Mr. Butler also in
his original description of 8. binotata records it from Borneo as well as
* 1'roc Zool. Soc Lond., 1SS3, p. 320, n. 4.
