1892.] L. dc Nicevillc — Subgenus Stictoploca of the genus Euplcea. 159
from India. Mr. Moore in his Monograph of tho Euplceina docs not
record it from Borneo, bnt describes from thence S. tyrianthina. There
is something mysterious about tho latter species. Having originally*
described it from Borneo and Sumatra, Mr. Moore, in Lep. Ind., p. 138,
records it from Sumatra only. In the original description it is said to
be similar to S. harrisii on the upperside of the fore wing, i. e., richly
glossed with blue. But in Lep. Ind. it is said to be " without the blue
gloss." Again, in Captain Shopland's List of the Butterflies collected
by him in Aracan, Burma, p. 4, E. tyrianthina is recorded. I am almost
certain that there is no Stictoploea in any part of India that is not blue-
glossed, and as Captain Shopland most probably named his specimens
at the British Museum, and as none but blue-glossed species occur in
India, I think Mr. Moore must be mistaken in saying that the species is
not blue-glossed. As originally described Mr. Moore placed it between
two blue-glossed species (S. liarrisi and S. pygmcea), and all the indica-
tions would go to show that it is a blue-glossed species, in which case
it is probably another synonym of E. harrisii.
E. pygmcea may, I think, be dismissed at once, as it is obviously only
a stunted form of E. binotata. I possess from the Khasi Hills an even
smaller specimen than the type, with which it agrees in markings. The
two commonest forms in the Khasi Hills are E. binotata and E. regina, but
the other three described species also occur there, but less commonly.
Every gradation exists between the most heavily-marked E. hopei on the
one side and the most sparsely-marked E. regina on the other, as represent-
ed in these Khasi Hill specimens, and I can come to no other conclusion
than that we have here to deal with a single protean species which
must stand as E. (Stictoploea) harrisii, Felder. Although this single
species has been split up into six by three different entomologists (Moore
having described three, Felder two, and Butler one), this by no means
exhausts the number of species which might be created on similar lines
as there is hardly any combination in the different arrangement of the
discal spots of the forewing and the marginal and subniarginal spots of
both wings which might not be met with were sufficient material avail-
able ; at any rate, in the neai^ly one hundred set specimens and two
hundred unset ones now before me as I write, there are numerous in-
dividual specimens which are quite as distinct as any hitherto described.
And the species is obviously variable throughout its range, though in the
Khasi Hills of Assam, where it appears to be commonest, these varia-
tions are the most numerous, and comprise the extreme north-westerly
(Sikkim) form which seems to always possess the discal spots on the
* 1. c, p. 320, n. 5.
