1892.] L. de Niceville — Subgenus Stictoplcea of the genus Euploca. 161
Habitat : Sikkim, Bhutan, Assam, Burma, Malay Peninsula,
Cochin- China.
Expanse : cf, 2-8 to 42 ; ? , 3'4 to 4'2 inches.
Description: Male. Upperside, forewing glossed with magni-
ficent blue throughout ; two prominent black impressed elongated
sexual brands in the submedian interspace placed one above the other,
the anterior rather the shorter ; marginal blue dots varying from none
to nine, when present invariably commencing at the anal an°-le and
never reaching the apex of the wing ; a submarginal series of larger
spots varying from five to eight, and shewing great variation in
size ; an angulated series of discal spots placed beyond the discoidal
cell, varying from none to five, also veiy variable in size ; a spot at
the outer posterior end of the cell and another on the costa between the
origin of the first and second subcostal nervules, both sometimes present,
sometimes absent. Hindwing rich dark piceous, becoming lio-hter to-
wards the costa, the latter broadly cinereous ; marginal white dots
none in some specimens, to a complete series of twelve in others •
a submarginal larger series varying from nine to ten, very inconstant in
size, when present always commencing from the apex of the wing ;
sometimes with, sometimes without two discal bluish-white spots
divided by the third median nervule beyond the discoidal cell. Under-
side, both loings rich dark piceous ; some white dots at the extreme
base of the wings; the markings as above, but invariably much
smaller, white, or bluish-white, as variahle as on the upperside; some-
times with, sometimes without a spot at the end of each discoidal cell.
Foreiving with the inner margin broadly cinereous. Female differs from
the male in the inner margin of the forewing being straight instead of
strongly outwardly bowed, and in the absence of the sexual brands on
the upperside, which are represented in some specimens by a small
blue streak ; all the markings on both sides in both wings as variable
as in the male. Underside, foreiving with two elongated bluish-white
streaks in the submedian interspace. This latter marking is very use-
ful, and by it a female Stictoploea can be at once identified, as it occurs
in no other group of Euplcea.
The shape of the forewing in this species shews considerable varia-
tion, some specimens being much broader than others, while the apex of
the wing is also somewhat produced is some examples, much rounded in
others.
