1892.] L. A. Waddell— Note on the ' Mri-gu-ta 1 Stupa. 187
lithograph of its more modern appearance with its additional buildings
and investing wall. But no description or account of the monument
seems to be on record.
As I have obtained a copy of the printed booklet which is sold at
the stupa to the pilgrims, I here give a short abstract of its contents,
which are interesting as showing how the Stupa is brought into in-
timate relations with the chief legendary and historic persons of early
Lamaism. The print is a new revision by Panya Vajra and another
disciple of "the great Lama Zhab-tZkar.' This latter Lama, I am
informed, lived about thirty years ago, and gilded the short spire of
the stupa and built the present investing wall.
The book states as follows : —
" This Stupa enshrines the spirit of the Buddhas of the ten
directions, and of the Buddhas of the three times, (i. e., the present,
past and future), and of all the Bodhisatwas, and it holds the Dharma-
kaya.
"When King Thi Srong Detsan 1 asked The Guru, 2 at Samyas, 3 to
tell him the history of the Ma-gu-ta stupa in Nepal, made by the four
sons of ' the bestower of gifts ' named ' the poor mother Pya-rdsi-ma
(Fowl-keeper),' then the Guru thus related (the story) : —
" In a former Kalpa — time beyond conception — the Bodhisatwa
Mahasatwa Avalokiteswara, approached the Tathagatha Amitabha and
prayed for the animals immersed in the miry slough, and after saving
these he went to Mount Potala. There he saw hosts of unsaved animals,
innumerable like unto mounds of muriva^ lees, and (seeing this he) wept.
Two of his pitying tears were born into Indra's heaven as god's
daughters, named respectively Kangma and the Little Kang-ma or Kang-
chhung-ma. This latter having stolen in heaven some flowers, was as
a punishment, reborn in earth, in a low pigherd's family in Maguta in
Nepal, under the name of Sambhara or ' the Chief Happiness,' her
mother's name being Purna. On marriage she had four sons, and her
husband's early death left her with the sole care of the family. She with
her family undertook the herding and rearing of geese for the wealthy,
ami in this pursuit having amassed much wealth, she — Ma-pya-rdsi-m;i
(or mother Fowl-keeper) — decided to built a large Stupa in honor of
the Tathagatha. She, thereon, went to the king and begged for a silo,
saying, she wanted only so much ground as one hide could cover.
1 The king of Tibet who introduced Lamaism.
* i. e., Padma Sambhava, or Ugyan the founder of Lamaism.
8 The first lamaist monastery in Tibet.
* The millet seed (elusine crocanum) about the size of mustard soed, from which
is made the Himalayan beer.
