1892.] L. A. Waddell— Burmese Buddhist Bosaries. 189
This Stupa is also worshipped by the Nepaleso Buddhists, viz.,
the Newars — the semi-aborigines of the Nepal valley, and the Murmi, a
.is-1 1 iraalayan branch of Tibetan stoek. The name 'Maguta' — pro-
nounced ' Makuta ' — is doubtless a contraction for Makuta band liana, the
pre-Bnddhist 'crested chaitya' such as existed at Buddha's death at
Kusinagara, in the country of the Mall as — a tribe which T believe to be
the same which penetrated latterly to the adjoining country of Nepal
and there established the 'Mall' dynasties.
4. Burmese Buddhist Bosaries. — By L. A. Waddell, M. B.,
M. R. A. S.
In my contribution on Lamaic Rosaries I made incidental reference
to the rosary as used by the Southern Buddhists. I have now, mainly
through the kindness of Mr. Monng Hpo Myin of Rangoon, obtained
a set of the various kinds of rosaries used by the Burmese Buddhist
monks and also some interesting information on the subject.
The rosary is admitted by the learned Burmese monks or phungyis
to be of comparatively recent introduction into
Of relatively recent Burmese Buddhism, where it has been in use
for some centuries at least. Its exact time and
mode of introduction is, however, unknown ; but it is believed by the
Burmese monks to have been unknown in, and not obtained from, Indian
Buddhism. And in this connection I may note that in none of the many
Indian Buddhist sculptures, and Ajanta frescoes examined by me — even
the most modern — have I found a rosary in the hands of the monks or
as a part of their outfit. My own opinion is, that it was probably
brought to Burma from India by pilgrims during the latest Tantric
stao - e of Buddhism about the 11th cent. A. D., when, according to the
more reliable Tibetan accounts, the rosary held a conspicuous place in
the mystical and highly impure form of Buddhism then existing
throughout India.
Now-a-days in Burma it is quite exceptional to find any monk or
lay devotee without a rosary ; and the monks
Rosary in general SU pp , t their use of it by a quotation from
one of Buddha's own sutras or sermons in
the collection of the Tika Anguttara Nikdya, which is believed by
many to date to the first Council in the year
Reason alleged, for f Budd]ia ' s death, and in which occurs the
use of rosary.
following passage : —
" Uposathan upaioasantena paruparodhapati saw/ufta kammanla
"navita rotappa, khayavayagananam karontena vitinamitabhan" Which
"may be translated— " Those who observe uposatha should pass their
