1892.] P. J. Briihl — Be Rananculacci* Indicts Bixpntaliones. 191
The late king Thebaw's father was a great patron of the rosary,
and used to bestow it freely as a royal gift.
5. Qroeco-Roman Influence on the Civilization of Ancient India.
Supplementary Note.— By V. A. Smith, Esq., M. R. A. S., Indian Civil
Service.
The paper will be published in the Journal, Part I.
G. Be liananculaceis Iudicis Bisjnitationes — Scripsit P. J. Bkuhl.
(Abstract.)
The pi^esent paper is the first of three which will deal chiefly Avith
those species of Rahunculaceae which grow within the limits of the
Indian Empire, and in those countries which can, or might be reached by
travellers making India their base. We shall, however, also refer
incidentally to species growing in more distant places, whenever the
subject matter renders it desirable for us to do so. In the preface we
have a few words to say about the material which has been the object
of our investigations and about a certain abbreviated notation, grown
out of one used by Professor Drude, which we have found convenient
to use.
We have thought it expedient to devote a whole paper to Aqui-
legia, about which there appears to exist a good deal of confusion in
various herbaria ; thus in Boissier's Supplementum we find reference
made, under the name of Aquilegia pubiflora, to a form which is only
indirectly related to that Wallichian species. When endeavouring to
bring order and law into the chaos of Indian forms, we found ourselves
compelled to extend our studies over the whole genus. The American
specimens in the Calcutta Herbarium are, however, not numerous
enough, to write a detailed monograph of the whole of the species,
although their number is sufficiently large to investigate their true
relationships and come to certain definite conclusions with respect to the
degree of variability exhibited by the species which group themselves
round A. formosa.
We have consequently concentrated our attention chiefly on the
group of species or varieties which arrange themselves round the typical
A. vulgaris as a centre and, as it appears, as a parent form. We may
also state that our investigation, which has, of course, been directed
more especially to the Indian Aquilegias, has led us to the same result
at which Hooker and Thomson arrived years ago when studying
European and Asiatic Aquilegias in connection with the publication of
the Flora Indica ; that is to say, all the so-called Himalayan and
