192 P. J. Bruhl — Be Eananculaceis Indicts IHsputationes. [Dec.
European, together with several Siberian species are only varieties
which branch off from the genuine Aquilegia vulgaris and which, not-
withstanding a frequently striking diversity in aspect, are still connect-
ed with the parent form by traceable links. Such connecting links
exist especially in that region where the Himalaya, the Kara Korum,
the Kwenlun, and the Hindu Kush meet, a fact ■which is not without
significance. We are convinced that the number of species has been
unduly multiplied by botanists who, having a sharper eye for differences
where they exist than for intermediate forms in which those differences
do not exist, attribute too great importance to characters which, in the
nnt me of things, are essentially variable. We shall, however, not
follow up the subject any further, but confine ourselves to stating the
main results to which our investigation of the genus Aquilegia has led
us. They are the following -. —
(1) Neither the presence nor absence, nor the nature of the indu-
mentum of the vegetative parts can serve as specific characters.
('!) The leaves are so variable as regards degree of division and
vim pe and size of leaflets, that it is absolutely impossible to separate
species by them.
(3) All parts of the flower which have reference to cross-ferti-
lization by insects are essentially variable.
(4) The close relationship of the various forms of Aquilegia
explains the ease with which they form hybrids.
(5) Plants, the same in all essential characters, may originate in
regions which are widely apart, not only from the same parent form,
but also from essentially different varieties.
(6) Forms belonging to the same variety may sometimes be found
in distant places in consequence of some younger variety reverting to
the parent type in regions into which the latter has not penetrated
directly.
(7) The genus Aquilegia is one of the more recent among Ranun-
culacea*, being probably derived from the parent form of Isopyrum
grandiflorum and Isopyrum microphyllum, and exhibiting also relation-
ships to I. anemonoides and I. biternatum.
(8) The genus Aquilegia appears to have originated in Eastern
Asia, and spread from its hi it h-place in two streams, one invading Europe
and spreading into the Himalaya along the ranges which form the
western boundary of the ancient Gobi Sea, the other overrunning
North-America and forking off through the hills of China proper to-
wards the eastern termination of the Bimalaya.
The paper will be published in full in the Journal, Part II.
