L892.] Earaprasad Shastri — Notes on the Banlcsoffke Hugli. 193
7. Notes on the Banks of the Hugh in 1495. — By Pandit Haraprasad
Shastui.
The writings and researches of Messrs. Blochmann, Long, Marshman,
Gaurdas Bysak, and, last though not the least, of Mr. Wilson our Philo-
logical Secretary, have roused an interest in the Antiquities of the Capital
of the British Empire, and the places in its vicinity, and people are doing
their best to search into old records in order to bring new and interest-
ing facts to light, and as an humble worker in the same field, I beg to
approach you, though with diffidence, with a paper on the subject.
In the course of my search for Sanskrit Manuscripts I came across
in a rather out of the way corner of Bengal, viz., far in the Barasat
Sub-Division, two bundles of Bengali Manuscripts. One of the bundles
proved on examination to be the " Manasar Bhdsdn" by the joint author-
ship of Kshemananda and Ketakadas ; the other bundle contained
three Avorks, the first is a copy of the " Manasar Bhdscin," the second a
work on Manasd, or the Goddess of serpents, by a perfectly unknown
author named Bipradas. This work is incomplete. It has only 31
leaves without the first page ; and the third is also an incomplete
copy of the same work without the first page. The first 45 pages of
the second fragment are written on old paper, and in old handwriting,
and the rest with a new pagination is written on more modern paper and
in newer handwriting.
The name of Bipradas as a Bengali poet, is not at all known. In
both the copies he gives copious information about himself, about the
time in which he wrote, and the circumstances under which the book was
written. He belonged to the Rarhiya distribution of Brahmans in
Bengal ; he was a descendant of Bdtsija Muni, and the village which his
Bengali ancestors obtained from the descendants of Raja A'disur who
brought the five Brahmans in Bengal, was Pippalai. He professed the
Sama Veda in its Kauthuma S'dkhd. He lived from his earliest childhood
at Batagram near Baduria. The readings of the two copies of the name
Baduriya do not agree. In one place it is distinctly Baduria and in an-
other it is Namurya. The year is indicated by the words f%» T/^ #^ *r€t
that is s>\«^. By the well-known rule of inverting the digits we come to
the S'aka year 1417, and this is corroborated by the fact that the author
mentions Hussain Shah as the reigning Sultan of Bengal. Saka 1417 is
1495 A. D., that is, three years before Vasco de Gama landed at Calicut.
Chaitanya was then only ten years of age. The writer says that the
Goddess of serpents inspired him in a dream to write a poem in her
honour. This is the stereotyped way of pleading divine inspiration for
writing poetry. It is a fact, however, that the worship of the goddess
