194 Haraprasad Shastri — Notes on the Banks: of the 77V///. [Dec.
of serpents was very prevalent in those days. It was an easy way for
Brahmans to get into fortune. In Chaitanya's early youth people advised
him to take to the worship of this goddess if lie wanted wealth. But ho
refused to listen to them. The examination of a few pages shews that
Bipradas possessed poetical powers of no mean order, and that he
knew much of serpents and their life-history. The portion of the book,
with which we arc concerned, is where he describes the voyage of
Ghdnd Saddgar, who hated the goddess of serpents and did his best to
put a stop to her worship, but after much persecution by the avenging
goddess, was at last obliged to submit to her worship. His voyage
commences at Champainagar which is sometimes identified with
Champanagar, the modern Bhagalpur.* llis small fleet consisting of
seven vessels passed by Raj-ghat, which had not yet got its modern name
Bajmahal ; then it passed by Ramesvara and Dharma-khan, places which
cannot be identified, before it came to where the Ajaya meets the
Bhagirathi. Passing by a small place named Ujaiu where a meld is
still held annually, the fleet came to the confluence of the S'iva with
the Bhagirathi : then the fleet anchored at Iudra Ghat near Catwa.
Catwa is still one of the chief places of trade in the district of
Burdwan, and the Purgana in which it is situated is called Indrani.
Iudra Ghat means one of the 12 Ghats in the Purganna Indrani,
both the Purgana and the Ghat deriving their names from the
worship of India. The author says that the merchant worshipped
Indra at this place. Pandit Ramgati Nyayaratna, the historian of
Bengali literature, speaks of an Indresvar S'iva in this Purgana, from
which it may be inferred that, as in other parts of India, the primitive
worship of the rain-god gave way to that of the more popular gods
S'iva, Vishnu, &c, which was very prevalent in those days. Then
the fleet passed by the well-known places named Nadiya, Ambua
(modern Calna) Fulia, on the other side of the river, Guptipara and
Mirzapur, and came at last to Triveni, the famous junction of the
three rivers. In this list, Mirzapur is nearest to Navadvipa, then
Calna, then Fulia, then Guptipara and after that Triveni. The
writer puts Mirza pur last which is curious. At Triveni the Sadagar
lands to have a look at Satgaon, the great emporium of trade. Then
follows a description of Satgaon and its wealth. Hindus and Muhani-
madans lived in peace and enjoyed equally the prosperity <>f the city and
its surrounding country. The merchant stopped there for two days
and then recommenced his downward voyage. The first place aftei
* There are many places in Bengal which claim the honor of being the birth
place of Chanel and each has borne authority to support its claim.
