1892.] Haraprasad Shastri — Notes on the Banks of the Etigli.
Baruipur was a whirlpool sacred to Kali. There the Goddess of serpents
tried to put the merchant into difficulty by raising a storm and sending an
army of serpents of various size, colour and ferocity. But the merchant
('hand overcame all difficulties and continued his downward v<-
Thru ln> entered into the river Hunia and reached Chhatrabhog, a place
mentioned in other ancient Bengali works. He performed all the sa
duties enjoined in the Shtistras for performance at a place of pilgrin
He took a large quantity of fresh water in his vessel from a pool named
Badarika Kunda. Passing it he entered the Purgana of Hatiagarh,
so -well known in the history of Pir Gorachand and in Musalmani
Bengali literature. It was here that the Pir received a mortal wound
from his Hindu opponents — A'kananda and Bakananda. From Hatia-
garh the fleet entered S'atamukhi, i. e., the hundred streams, and thenca
Chanmukhi, — the four streams. Before entering the great ocean he
worshipped S'ankar Madkav and performed his religious duties on the
sea shore.
Some question may arise as to the authenticity of the information
given in Bipradas's work. Those who are disposed to consider Bipra-
das's work as authentic may yet contend that though his information is
meagre at the commencement of the voyage, as also at the end, he is very
elaborate between Satgaon and Kalighat and this is an indication that
some verses may have been interpolated. But there is an explan
for this. Bipradas belonged to Baduriya Batagram in the Basirhat Sub-
division, and if he ever came to bathe in the Ganges, he came to this
part of the country and so he knew it better. It is also to be noted that
the Pippalais i. e., the family to which he belonged had a settlement
at Mahes and Akna where one of them held the high position of a
priest to the local Jagannath. The absence of any mention of pi
noted in the history of Chaitanya's religion and for European commerce.
puts the authenticity of the information given in the book beyond
questiou.
