1 J. Annual Eeport. [Feb.
pages of letter press and 6 plates. The Annual Address of the President
was printed separately from the Proceedings and contained 52 pages
of letter press. One number of the late Mr. Atkinson's Catalogue of
the Insecta of tho Oriental Region issued as Supplement No. 2 to Part II
of 1890, containing 139 pages of letter px'css ; and the Index to the
Journal, Part II for 1890 were also published.
Coin Cabinet.
Durino- the year 103 coins were added to the Cabinet, of which 2
were of gold, 72 of silver, 28 of copper and 1 of mixed copper and silver.
97 of these coins were acquired under the Treasure Trove Act. The
other 6 were presented by the Government of Bombay under the same
Act. They compi-ise 12 Pathan, 30 Mu gh al, 5 Bengal, 28 Jaunpur,
9 Gujarati, 6 Durrani, 6 Indo-Sassanian, 1 Sikh, 1 Old English, 1
Baroda, 1 Central Asian, 1 Fanam, 1 Padmatanka coins, besides one
of uncertain ascription. Detailed notices of nearly all of them will be
found in the Society's Proceedings for August and November.
Office of Secretaries.
Dr. Hocrnle returned from leave in March and took charge of the
duties of Philological Secretary from Mr. Tawncy who had agreed to
carry on the work till Dr. Hoernle's return.
Mr. Sclatcr carried on the duties of Natural History Secretary and
Editor of the Journal, Part II during the year except for the month of
December when he resigned owing to his leaving India, and Dr. Walsh
was appointed in his place.
Dr. W. King carried on the duties of Treasurer during the year
except for one period of about one month when he had to leave Cal-
cutta on duty and Mr. Sclater took charge of the Avork during his
absence.
Mr. Little carried on the duties of General Secretary throughout
the year.
Mr. H. Ronaldson resigned tho post of Assistant-Secretary and
Librarian in March last and Mr. J. H. Elliott, the Assistant-Librarian,
was appointed to otticiato in addition to his own duties.
There were no changes in the posts of Cashier, Pandit and Copyist,
which were held by the permanent incumbents Babu Nritya Gopal
I; i, Pandit Hari Mohan Vidyabhusau and Babu Joges Chandra
Chatterjee respectively.
Bibliotheca Indica.
Thirty-four fasciouli were published during the year, of which 11
v. t re in t lu Arabic- Pi ri ian,20 in the Sanskrit, and 3 in the Tibetan series.
