1892.] Annual Report. 15
They belong to 20 different works of which 4 are in Arabic-Persian, 14 in
Sanskrit and two in Tibetan. There were only three new publications
one in the Arabic-Persian and two in the Sanskrit series, viz., A com-
mentary on Ten Ancient Arabic Poems and English translations of
Aniruddha's Commentary on the Samkhya Sutras and of the Ain-i-Akbari.
Three works only were completed, namely, the Brlhan-Naradiya Purana,
the Nirukta and the Tarikhi-Firuz Shahi. Of these 34 fasciculi, 9, be-
longing to four works, are translations into English and the rest are
editions of texts. The five fasciculi of the Ain-i-Akbari completes, as
was expected last year, the English translation of the Second Volume.
In the Annual Report for 1891 it was estimated that 36 fasciculi
would be issued, the actual out-turn has been less by two. During the
course of the year it was found that the Oriental Publication Fund
was publishing more works than it could meet the cost of, and the edi-
tors were accordingly requested to proceed slowly with their work till
the liabilities were paid off. The expenditure out of the Oriental Fund
during the year was Rs. 12,378, which includes printing charges for 23
and editing charges for 26 fasciculi, which gives an average of Rs. 506
for each fasciculus. If 24 fasciculi are published during the year 1892
there will be no difficulty in meeting current expenses as well as paying
off old debts .
No new works were sanctioned for publication during the year.
The following are the works already taken in hand of which no
fasciculi appeared during the year : —
(1) Tabakati-Nasiri (index of persons and places) ; (2) Pi'akrita
Lakshana, (English translation and notes) ; (3) Katantra (introduction) ;
(4) Apastamba S'rauta Sutra (Text) ; (5) Lalita Vistara (English
translation) ; (6) Brihaddharma Purana; (7) Taittiriya Samhita.
Of the following works sanctioned in previous j T ears, no fasciculi
have appeared as yet : —
(1) Prakritadhyaya (Text and translation) ; (2) Charaka (English
translation with notes) ; (3) Naqaid-ul-Farazdag-Jerir (Text with Eng-
lish translation in prose and verse) ; (4) Kala Viveka (Text) ; (5) Vedanta
Sutra Commentaries on, (Text) ; (two of these, viz., Anubhashyam and
S'ribhashyam have been commenced) ; (6) Karana Grantha (Text) ;
(7) Muntakhub-ut-Tawarikh, Vol. I (English translation) ; (8) Taj-ul
Ma'asir (Text) ; (9) Tarikh-i-Wassaf (Text) ; (10) Tarikh-i-Yamini
(English translation with notes) ; (11) Jnatadharma Katha Sutra and
Vipaka Sutra (Text) ; (12) Saddharma Pundarika (Text) ; (13) Svayam-
bhu Purana (Text) ; (14) Bhattotpala's commentary on Varaha Mihira's
Brihat Samhita.
