16 Annual Reporf. [Feb.
The following is a descriptive list of the publications during 1891 : —
A. Arabic and Persian Series.
1. Maasur-ul-Uniaraor Memoirs of the nobles of the Mughal Court
of Delhi by a nobleman of that Court during the early part of the last
century. Biographical notices of the great officers of the great
Mughal from the time of Baber to the author's own time. Edited by
Maulavi Mirza Ashraf AH of the Calcutta Madrasah, Nos. 784, 791,
797 and 804. Vol, III, Fasc. VII, VIII, IX and X.
2. Tarikh-i-Firuz Shahi, a history of the reign of Firuz Shah
Tughluq of the Tughluq dynasty of Delhi by Shams-i-Siraj-Afif has
come to a close. One fasciculus only. No. 809, Fasc. VI. This is to be
distinguished from the work of Ziya-i-Barani.
3. A Commentary byAbu-Zakariya Yahya At-Tibrizi on Ten An-
cient Arabic Poems. All of which belong to pre-Muhammudan times,
Edited from the MSS. of Cambridge, London and Leyden, by Charles
James Lyall Esq., C. S. No. 789, Fasc. I.
4. The Ain-i-Akbari is a well-known work in Persian compiled
under the order of Emperor Akbar by his friend Abul Fazl, containing
the History, Geography and the System of Administration of the Em-
pire of Delhi. Translated from the Original Persian by Col. H. S.
Jarrett, Nos. 781, 786, 798, 805, and 811. Vol. II. Fasc. I, II, III, IV, and
V. These complete the second volume. The Editor has given an
alphabetical index of all the proper names to be found in this volume.
P>. Sanskrit Series.
1. Brihad Devata, a very ancient work attributed to S'aunaka
Acharyya. It is an index to the Rig- Veda giving the devata or deity
to every rik. Edited by the Late Raja Rajendralala Mitra. No.
794, Fasc. III. The Raja added the Arshanukramani and the Chhan-
donukramani to the work in the form of appendices.
2. Chaturvarga Chintamani by Hemadri the oldest Smriti com-
pilation yet received; the Kamadhenu and others being known only by
name. It was compiled when Southern India bad not yet fallen into
the hands of the Muhammadans. Edited by Pandits Kamakhyanath
Tarkavagisha and JogeaVara Smritiratna, Nos. 790, 803, Vol. Ill,
Part II, Fasc. VIII and IX.
3. Madana Parijata, a system of Hindu Law, edited by Pandit
Madhusudana Smritiratna was compiled in the fourteenth century at
K .i > 1 1 1 a near Delhi under the patronage of a local chief named Madana
Pala, No. 796, Fasc. IX.
4. Nyaya Kusumdnjali Prakaranam by Udayanicharyya, edited
