1892.] Annual Report. 23
t Wiirttembcrg : — Natural History Society.
* Yokohama: — Asiatic Society.
* Zagreb : — Ai-chasological Society.
Abstract of Proceedings of Council during 1891.
January 26th, Ordinary Meeting.
A letter from the Registar and Superintendent of Records, India
Office, London, with reference to a proposal to publish Major Francklin's
Journal of a route from Rajmehal to Gour, either by the Secretary of
State or the Asiatic Society was recorded.
At the request of Captain A. Brame, his election as a member
of the Society was cancelled.
An offer from the Honorary Secretary to the Trustees, Indian
Museum, to return to the Society the gilt-seated figure of the Dharma
Raja of Bhootan which was transferred to the Museum with other
collections of the Society's Museum was accepted. The figure is now
placed on the staircase.
Read a letter from General R. Maclagan suggesting that the
Society's Journals and Proceedings should be issued monthly in con-
tinuous numbers under one single title like the Society's Journal in its
earlier years. It was resolved to thank General Maclagan, and to
inform him that it was impossible to accept his suggestion.
Mr. J. H. Rivett-Carnac in reply to his letter forwarding an ex-
tract from Sir A. Cunningham's letter suggesting that the Society
should publish some of the coins and particularly a large round copper
coin of Vonones and Azes and a Tetradrachin of Antimachus, was in-
formed that though a search had been made, the coius had not been
found. Dr. Hoernle was expected shortly to return when the coins
would probably be found.
Mr. C. H. Tawney reported that he had purchased the coins offer-
ed for sale by Mr. J. G. Delmerick and that on Dr. Hoernle's return if
he thinks it advisable he would make them over to the Society.
On the recommendation of the Finance Committee it was ordered
to remit £ 200 to Messrs. Triibner and Co. in payment of their account.
An offer from Mr. B. N. De to undertake the translation of the
Siyar-ul-Mutakherin for the Bibliotheca Indica was declined.
Mr. H. Beveridge resigned his Trusteeship of the Indian Museum
on behalf of the Society, and the Hon. Sir A. W. Croft was nominated
in his place.
