24 Annual Report. [Feb.
With reference to Council order that the Society's publications are
now being sent to Mofussil Members as soon as published, it was de-
cided that a similar course be followed with regard to Societies and
Members in Europe.
February 11th t Special Meeting.
Mr. H. Ronaldson resigned the Assistant-Secretaryship of the So-
ciety in March and Mr. J. H. Elliott, the Assistant-Librarian, was ap-
pointed to officiate in addition to his own duties.
Febmary 2Qth, Ordinary Meeting.
A letter from Mr. E. M. Thompson, of the British Museum, convey-
ino- the special thanks of the Trustees to the Government of the Central
Provinces, and the Asiatic Society of Bengal for the valuable addition to
the Museum collections of the Treasure Trove Gold Coins from Hoshan-
gabad was recorded.
Permission was given to Dr. J. H. Tull Walsh to bring forward his
proposal, that two sections be formed, and that these sections meet on
separate evenings.
The Secretary, Punjab Library, Lahore, was informed in reply to
his application that the publication of the Lepidoptera had been com-
pleted in 3 parts, and that it was not the custom of the Society to present
copies except in exchange.
It was ordered to subscribe to one copy of the monthly periodical
entitled " North Indian Notes and Queries."
The various Committees for the ensuing year were elected.
It was decided not to take any further steps regarding the payment
of subscriptions annually in advance and the procedure for collecting
arrear subscriptions.
On the recommendation of the Library Committee, several books
were ordered to be purchased for the Library.
On the recommendation of the Natural History Secretary, an ex-
change of Part II of the Journal for the publication of the Museo Civico
di Storia Naturale, Trieste, was sanctioned.
The first part of a Catalogue of Oriental Diptera prepared by Mons.
Bigot at the request of the late Mr. Atkinson, submitted by the Natural
History Secretary, was ordered to be read at the next monthly meeting.
On the recommendation of the Finance Committee, it was agreed
to circulate to Resident Member's that the permission given to invest
Rs. 50,000 in Municipal or Port Trust Debentures, be extended, with a
view to include the alternatives of fixed deposits in Calcutta Banks.
The Cashier was granted, as a special case, half pay for :>5 days
absence on sick leave.
