1892.] Annual Report. 25
The Copyist Avas granted an increase of pay of three rupees for the
present year and two rupees for the following year.
March 4th, Special Meeting.
It was decided to issue a circular requesting members to record
their votes on the proposed withdrawal of the sum of Rs. 50,000 from
the Government 4 per cent, loan and on the mode of re-investment.
March 26th, Ordinary Meeting.
Read a letter from Messrs. Triibner and Co. offering to return the
bulk of the Society's publications in stock, and suggesting that it would
be better to regard all goods supplied to them as actually sold with the
reservation that they may, upon return of a certain percentage of copies,
obtain credit on settlement. It was resolved to ask Messrs. Triibner and
Co. for further particulars as to the number of copies of specified publica-
tions they are prepared to receive and the proportion they wish to have
the right of returning, and after what interval of time.
It was ordered that the Indian Museum be charged with the cost
price for the printing of the extra copies of the late Mr. Atkinson's
Catalogue of the Insects of the Oriental Region.
A report from the Philological Secretary on four Treasure Trove
Coins found in the Hardoi District, was ordered to be read at the next
monthly meeting.
Dr. Hoernle returned from furlough and relieved Mr. Tawney of
the Philological Secretaryship to the Society.
The accounts of the Society for 1890 were audited by Messrs.
Meugens and King.
April 30th, Ordinary Meeting.
In reply to Dr. J. Anderson's letter complaining of the non-receipt
of some of the Society's publications, he was informed that the numbers
missing were sent along with other publications of the Society which
appeared to be amongst his numbers.
In reply to Kumar Rameswar Maliah's letter proposing that the
Bibliotheca Indica series should be distributed to the members with
the Society's Journal, he was informed that his proposal could not
be entertained.
Dr. Walsh was asked to accept a seat on the Council of the Society
in the place of Dr. Cunningham, who had resigned, owing to his ap-
proaching departure for Europe.
Dr. Cunningham's resignation as a Trustee of the Indian Museum
on behalf of the Society was not accepted.
