26 Annual Jieport. [Feb.
"With regard to the publication of the Oriental Publication Fund,
the following resolutions "were passed : —
" The Secretary to write a letter to the Editors informing them
that the funds in hand were insufficient to carry on publications at
the present rate and requesting them to send no more manuscript to
the press during the present year, except in accordance with instruc-
tions to be furnished them ; and to the Printers asking them to finish
the forms in hand and to set up no more until further instructions."
" Government Pi'omissory Notes for Rs. 2,000 of the Sanskrit
Manuscript Fund may be sold and the amount advanced to the Oriental
Publication Fund to pay the Baptist Mission Press for printing the
Bibliotheca Indica."
" The sum of Rs. 50 sanctioned by Council for a Tibetan Pandit
to assist Babu Pratapa Chundra Ghosha, be discontinued from the
commencement of the ensuing month."
In the event of the proposal to place Rs. 50,000 in fixed deposit
in Calcutta Banks not being declared carried at the next General
Meeting, the Council agreed to recommend that the proposal to invest
the money in Municipal Debentures be circulated for the votes of the
general body of members.
May 28th, Ordinary Meeting.
The name of Rev. H. Baker, a corresponding member of the
Society, was removed from the list- of members, as he had died many
years ago.
An offer from Messrs. Triibner and Co. to receive 10 numbers
of Bibliotheca Indica, 30 of the Journal and 20 of the Proceedings with
the reservation to have the right of returning 10 per cent, of the copies
ordered, was accepted. With regard to back stock it was decided that
they be asked how much there still remained unsold.
In reply to an offer by Major J. H. Sadler to bring out an edition
of the commentary of Sheikh Badr-uddin on the Alfizzab oflbn Malik,
it was explained that the present condition of the Oriental Publication
Fund admitted of no new works being undertaken for 3 years.
Dr. Walsh's acceptance as a Member of Council was ordered to be
announced at the next monthly meeting.
Intimation of the death of Mr. C. W. Baumgarten of Batavia, a
member of the Society, was ordered to be recorded In the Proceedings.
A paper by Mr. H. J. Rainey entitled " a short note on a strange
fiery hot-blast in the District of Khulna," was ordered to be read at the
next monthly meeting.
Permission was granted to ciroulate to the general body of members
