1892.] Annual Report. 29
August 2,7th, Ordinary Meeting.
On the recommendation of the Philological Secretary, it was order-
ed that all the available numbers of the Bibliotheca Indica and the
future numbers as published be presented to the Oriental Seminary of
the Bonn University.
A letter from the Deputy Secretary and Treasurer, Bank of Bengal,
stating that neither 4^ per cent, nor 5 per cent. Calcutta Municipal De-
bentures are procurable in the market, was recorded.
The Council approved the Philological Secretary's suggestion to
send to Mrs. Marx and the Rev. Dr. Dalman copies of both papers by
the late Dr. Karl Marx of Leh Ladakh.
September 24ith, Ordinary Meeting.
Dr. Hoernle was allowed to have the reserve copy of fasc I of
Nitisara to complete his volume.
The Council approved the recommendation of the Finance Com-
mittee to purchase the 2nd Vol. of Cesnola's Cypriote Antiquities,
price £10/10 for the Library.
An obituary notice of the death of Dr. Barclay was ordered to be
read at the next monthly meeting.
Pandit Haraprasad Shastri received an advance of Rs. 1,000 for
the probable purchase of manuscripts at Benares.
October 29th, Ordinary Meeting.
Bref eld's Mykologie, price Rs. 50, was ordered to be purchased for
the Library.
Mr. W. Theobald was informed, in reply to his letter, that the charge
for printing his extra copies supplied in addition to the author's copies,
was according to the usual rate.
An application from Mr. J. C. R. Johnstone asking on behalf of the
Calcutta Musical Association for permission to be allowed to hold their
meeting in the Society's room was declined.
November 26th, Ordinary Meeting.
It was ordered to supply the Secretary, Anthropological Society
of Vienna, with the vols, of the Asiatic Researches and the Society's
Journals asked for.
On the recommendation of the Philological Secretary, one copy of
a History of the Sects of the " Ismailies " was ordered to be subscribed
for.
Permission was given to Dr. Waddell to take out of the Library
the two vols, of the Ajanta plates and Cunningham's " Stupa of
Bharhut."
