30 Annual Report. [Feb.
Permission was given to Babu P. C. Mookerjee to take out certain
Library books, the Superintendent of the Indian Museum being respon-
sible for their return.
On the proposed arrangement of Pandit Hara Prashad Shastri for
conducting the operations in search of Sanskrit MSS. in Bengal the
following orders were passed : —
I. The Office of Sanskrit MSS. be removed to the Asiatic Society's
Rooms.
II. A gratuity of a year's pay be granted to Babu Upendra
Lala Mitra on his retirement.
III. One Resident Pandit be appointed on Rs. 20 permanently.
IV. A second travelling Pandit be appointed on Rs. 30 up to
31st March 1893.
V. Pandit Ram Nath Tarkaratna be requested to explain why
he did no work for 2| years.
December 31st, Ordinary Meeting.
On the recommendation of the Philological Secretary one copy of
each of the publications of the Oriental Translation Fund was ordered
to be subscribed for.
The appointment of a temporary clerk on Rs. 30 for 6 months to
catalogue the Library Books x-eceived during the years 1885-1890 was
sanctioned.
The Council sanctioned the appointment of a clerk on Rs. 15 for
the Store-room, if found necessary.
Dr. Hoernle's resignation as Philological Secretary and Member
of Council was accepted and Mr. C. R. Wilson appointed in his place,
Dr. Hoernle retaining the numismatic work. It was ordered that Mr.
Wilson's name be substituted for Dr. Hoernle's at the next monthly
meeting.
Dr. Walsh was appointed Natural History Secretary and Editor
of Journal Part II in the place of Mr. Sclater resigned.
The lists of Office Beax-ers and Membei'S of Council for the ensuing
year were approved.
Intimation was i*eceived from the Supex'intendent of Stamps and
Stationery thai the Secretary of State for India had ceased to subscribe
for 40 copies of each of the Society's publications from the commence-
ment of 1892. It was decided to ask for a copy of the instruction under
which the Letter was written.
On an application from Lady Frankfox't, pei'mission was granted
to hold an ambulance class tor Ladies in the Society's room every
Thursday between 12 noon and 1 p.m.
