1892.] Address. 31
The Report having been read the President invited the meeting
to put any questions or to offer any remarks which any member might
think necessary in connection therewith.
No remarks having been offered the President moved the adoption
of the report, and proposed a vote of thanks to the Honorary Secre-
taries and Treasurer for their exertions in behalf of the Society.
The motion was carried unanimously.
The President then addressed the meeting.
Address.
The Report of the Council which has just been read supplies full
t • + f tot -K information as to the working of the Society
in 1891, and I think it may be regarded as
fairly satisfactory. Compared with the previous six years, the figures
for the last six show, it is true, a steadily downward tendency in
the number of paying members ; but this decline seems for the present
to have been arrested, as the average number for the three years 1889
to 1891 is at any rate slightly higher than that of the previous three.
However much this decline in the number of members from decade to
decade may be regretted, it need cause us no surprise. The strain
and pressure of official duties in India increase year by year ; and the
majority of public servants in this country find little leisure for the
cultivation of those sciences and the pursuit of those researches which
it is the object of this Society specially to foster. There is happily
no diminution in the supply of papers read before the Society, or in
their interest and value ; but a Society constituted as this is lives
not only by the papers read but by the subscriptions paid ; and it is
vitally affected by any cause that tends to reduce the number of
those who, feeling a general interest in what has been performed by
man or produced by nature within the continent of India, would
naturally seek admission to our Society if fuller opportunities for
stimulating that interest were afforded them in their daily life and work.
But this is an old complaint, and one which it is beyond our power
to mend.
The Society has lost several valued mem-
uary. k erg ^ d ea th during the past year.
Raja Rajendralala Mitra, c. i. e., was a scholar of European
fame. His connexion with this Society extended over a period of nearly
half a century. Entering it, when a young man, as Assistant Secretary and
Librarian, his commanding abilities and untiring industry soon brought
him into prominence ; and while we may congratulate ourselves that it
