32 Address. [Feb.
was this Society which first gave him the opportunity of satisfying
his inexhaustible craving for knowledge, wo must gratefully admit
that he has amply repaid the debt by the contributions that he has made
to Oriental learnin ", and by the lustre that his name and attainments
have shed upon the Society, of which he was one of the most distin-
guished in the long roll of Presidents. When the Centenary Review of
the Researches of the Society was in preparation in 1883, Dr. Rajendra-
lala Mitra was at once selected as the man to write its history. It was
an appropriate and happy choice, and the duty laid upon him and
cheerfully undertaken was admirably discharged. His eminence in the
field of learning was recognised by the University of Calcutta, which
conferred upon him the honorary degree of Doctor in Law, and by Her
Majesty the Queen Empress, who admitted him to the Order of the
Indian Empire. But his most enduring title to fame lies in the work
which he has done, the extent and solidity of which are acknowledged,
not only within the walls of this Society, or even in India, but wherever
in the civilised world Oriental scholarship is valued.
Surgeon Major A. Barclay was a man whose premature death
was a heavy loss to that distinguished service of which he was one of
the most prominent member's, and whose honour and interests he had
ever at heart. A man of wide and varied cultivation and untiring
energy, it was to the study of parasitic fungi that he devoted his
special attention ; and the scientific world knows well the value of the
contributions that he made to that obscure and important subject, not
merely in advancing the bounds of our theoretical knowledge, but in
suo-o-esting remedies for some of the most dangerous and destructive
pests of both animal and vegetable life. His kind and gentle disposi-
tion endeared him to all who had the privilege of his friendship.
John Boxweh had been a member of our Society for 23 years.
Amid the engrossing occupations of a Magistrate and a Commissioner
in Bengal, he gave up his rare moments of leisure to the literature
of India and the traditions of her people. The character of his learning
was varied: he knew the Rig Veda, and he knew the fairy tale ; but
unhappily the hand of death removed him before he could enshrine
the results of his studies in any permanent form. But
" The world which credits what is done,
Is cold to all that might havo been,"
;i ikI so In' has missed the fame which otherwise might have been his. He
was a man of a singularly winning and simple nature ; and the cross
i hat murks his grave at Dacca fitly describes him as one cum dortrina
turn moribvs exornatus.
C'h.omj, Sib Ouvi;k B. St. John, k. c. s. i., r.i:., was another worker
