1892.] Address. 33
whose loss we have to deplore. As Major St. John, Director of the Anglo-
Persian Telegraph in 1869-71, he made an extensive collection of zoological
specimens chiefly belonging to the Vertebrata, mid at the same time kept
copious notes of the Fauna. He subsequently contributed largely to the
collection brought together by Mr. W. T. Blanford, f. r. S., who accom-
panied him on the Persian Boundary Commission in 1872. These
collections formed the materials for Blanford's work on the Zoology of Per-
sia (Eastern Persia, vol. II), in the preparation of which Major St. John's
notes on the Fauna proved of essential service. To the account of the
journeys of the Commission (Eastern Persia, vol. I) Major St. John
contributed a brief but valuable sketch of the physical geography of
Persia, together with an interesting itinerary, in every page of which the
ardent naturalist is apparent.
The financial position of the Society, which at one time gave cause
for apprehension, is now approaching a very
Finance. satisfactory state. The Society is more than
Rs. 3,000 better off at the beginning of the current year than it was at
the beginning of 1891 ; the balance in favour of the Society, including
the invested securities, having advanced from Rs. 1,37,612 to Rs. 1,40,750,
which is higher than it has been at any time since 1887. The report
supplies full details of the manner in which this improvement has been
effected. Our receipts have been better and our expenditure has been
less than in the previous year, the savings having been chiefly effected
under the heads of establishment and printing. I should add that
only a trifling amount of unpaid bills remains outstanding.
During the course of the year the Council proposed that a portion
of the Society's invested funds should be transferred from Government
Securities, then at a high premium, to Calcutta Municipal Debentures
yielding a better rate of interest. The proposal was accepted by the
Society, but in endeavouring to carry it out it was found that Muni-
cipal Debentures were very firmly held and rarely came into the
market. No change in the investment has therefore been made.
The Oriental Publication Fund shows similar improvement, the
Council having found it advisable to take somewhat vigorous measures
during the course of the year to reduce the expenditure from this Fund,
which was found to be on a scale considerably exceeding its normal
income.
Now, therefore, that the period of financial difficulty which once
threatened both the Society and the Oriental Publication Fund seems
to be over, a brief reference may be made to the causes of these tem-
porary difficulties, and the heads of expenditure which have shown the
greatest fluctuations may be compared. Without taking into account
