36 Address. [Fim.
this will appear in the reduced charges for printing and editing during
the current year. Assuming that the total income is Its. 12,000, the
working expenses Rs. 2,000, and the average cost of a fasciculus for
both editing and printing Rs. 400, the number that can be produced an-
nually is 25. The Council lias now arranged that during the current
year this Dumber shall, at any rate, not be exceeded.
Statement No. 2 of the accounts for the past year shows that the
condition of the O. P. Fund at the end of the year is fairly satisfactory ; the
ca.-di balance having increased from Rs. 469 to Rs. 1,172, and the out-
standing liabilities Inning been largely reduced, though they still stand
at about Rs. 6,000, a considerable portion of which, however, will be
paid off dining the current year. The improvement is due to the sale of
publications having been larger than usual, and to the accounts, as
rendered by Messrs. Triibner and Co., covering a period of 18 instead
of 12 months. But judging from the increased receipts from, the sale
of publications during the past few years, there is good reason to suppose
that there will be a steady income to the fund under this head of about
Rs. 3,500.
Before passing on to a brief review of the work done by the
Society and outside it in some of the different de-
Officers of the So- p ar tments of Literature and Science during the
ciety. l °
past year, it is my dut} r , and a very agreeable
duty, to remind you of the services rendered to the Society by its Offi-
cers, and of the obligations under which their zeal and devotion place us.
The extent and pressure of the work that devolves upon the Secretaries
are perhaps little understood except by those who have practical experience
of it ; and, without an amount of labour that is always considerable
and often severe, it is not too much to say that the work of the Society
could not be carried on. The death of Raja Rajendralala Mitra created
a vacancy in the Vice-Presidentship, which the Council have proposed to
fill by the nomination of Mr. C. J. Lyall, C. i.e., to that office, a nomination
which you aave now confirmed. I need hardly remind you that Mr. Lyall
is known to the learned world as one of the most erudite and accom-
plished of Arabic scholars, and that he has already placed us under obli-
gations by hi,^ edition of Abu Zakariya's Commentary on Ten Ancient
Arabi' J'tiinis. The closer connexion of Mr. Lyall with the Society
eannot fail to increase its usefulness. Mr. Little has discharged the
onerous and important duties of the General Secretary throughout the
year with eminent success. To Dr. Hoernle's conspicuous services as
Editor of Part I of the Journal the Society is greatly indebted. Dr.
Hoernle baa now been placed on special duty by the Government of
Bengal in order to complete the editing of the Bower MS. He has
