1892.] Address. 39
Tibetan literature accessible to us is enormous, and of very unequal
value ; and it will be necessary to exercise great care in selecting works
for publication in this series.
Reference may also be made to a paper on the life of the Indian
Pandit, Atisa, otherwise known as Dipamkara S'rijiiana, by Babu Sarat
Chandra Das, C. 1. E., published in Part I of the Journal. Dipamkara
was a learned Pandit of Magadha, to whom Lha Lama, the king of
Tibet, sent messengers in the first half of the 11th century, in-
viting him to visit Tibet in order to restore the pure doctrines of
Buddhism, which had become debased in that country by an admixture
of Tantric and Pon mysticism, After many refusals he was prevailed
on to visit Tibet in the year 1038 A. D., when the king received him
with the utmost respect and veneration, and conferred on him the title
of Jovo Atisa, (the Supreme Lord who has surpassed all). He revived
the practice of the pure Mahayana doctrine, and died near Lhasa in
1053 A. D. at the age of 73.
I may also notice the papers of the late Dr. Karl Marx, published
in numbers 2 and 3 of Part I of the Journal, one being a translation of
a dialogue from the Tibetan between a wicked king and his minister,
and the other a notice of documents relating to the history of Ladakh,
at which place Dr. Marx was a missionary. Death has been very busy
in the last few years with Tibetan scholars. We have lost Schiefner,
Minayeff, and Jaschke, and now the successor of Jaschke at Ladakh has
followed him.
Tibetan- Sanskrit Dictionary. — An account may here be given of the
Tibetan-Sanskrit Dictionary, in the preparation of which Babu Sarat
Chandra Das, as the Tibetan Translator to Government, has been en-
gaged for the last two or three years under the orders of the Govern-
ment of Bengal. At the close of the Preface to his Tibetan Dictionary,
published by the Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1834, Csoma de Koros
wrote : — " When there shall be more interest taken in Buddhism and in
the diffusion of Christian and European knowledge throughout the most
Eastern parts of Asia, the Tibetan Dictionary may be much improved,
enlarged and illustrated by the addition of Sanskrit terms." The
projected dictionary is intended to satisfy this requirement, only much
more fully than de Koros contemplated. Since his time another Tibetan
Dictionary has appeared, the production of Jaschke, the Moravian
Missionary at Ladakh. This work, though a great improvement on
Csoma's, does not meet the critical requirements of the pi'esent day.
Jaschke had not at his command the resources necessary for such an
undertaking. He was thoroughly familiar with Tibetan as a spoken
language ; but as regards its literary form, he had access to only a
