40 Address [Feb.
limited number of Tibetan works that had been published in Germany
ami ;\\ St. Petersburg, besides a few block-prints obtained from itinerant
Lamas at Ladakh. More than this, words of every style and of every
age are collected together in Jaschke's dictionary without any attempt
at classification.
The dictionary which Babu Sarat Chandra Das with his coadjutors
has now in hand is of much wider scope than either of its predecessors,
and its materials are derived from many different sources. It was in
the first instance undertaken at the suggestion of Professor Max Miiller,
who was anxious to ascertain the exact force of the Tibetan renderings
of current philosophical terms used in Sanskrit-Buddhist literature.
These technical terms, it was known, were rendered into Tibetan by
their precise syllabic equivalents, in conformity with a system framed
for the purpose by the Pandits engaged in the work of translating into
Tibetan the sacred books of Indian Buddhism. It was hoped that in
this way much new light would be thrown on the original meaning of
the philosophical terms of that literature, which is now in many in-
stances most obscure.
The dictionary has accordingly been framed on these lines. The
Tibetan word is first given, and then its Sanskrit equivalent, if any,
followed by (1) a literal translation of the word according to its etymo-
logy, (2) the sense or senses in which the word is used in speech or litera-
ture, (3) illustrative examples taken from Tibetan works either pub-
lished or accessible in known libraries. In order to secure, as far as
possible, an exhaustive vocabulary and a copious supply of illustrations,
Tibetan literature has been ransacked. Recourse has been had, not
only to Tibetan- Sanskrit vocabularies like the Vyutpatti and the Maha-
vyutpatti, some of which had already been translated by Remusat into
Kicnch and by Csoma into English; and to Sanskrit works like the
Kalpalatd Kavyddarsa with their absolutely faithful Tibetan transla-
tions ; but also to a still larger treasury of literary and scientific wealth.
The Kahgywr, or collection of Buddhist Scriptures, comprises 10S vo-
lumes of about 500 leaves each. With the help of Lama Sherab Gyat-
sho, of the Goom Monastery near Darjeeling, 90 of these volumes have
been analysed for the purposes of the dictionary. The Tangynr, which
contains ±2o volumes, is a still richer storehouse of learning. It con-
tains the text of Piinini and other grammarians, treatises from the
Sanskrit on ethics, political science and political economy, and even
poems like the Meghad/uta — all transcribed literatim in the Tibetan
character, together with Tibetan translations and commentaries. The
T<imjiiur is in fact a cyclopaedia of Indo-Tibetan literature ; and the means
by v, Inch so many ancient Sanskrit works had been preserved in Tibet
