1892.] Address. 41
and interpreted to the people had long been a source of wonder to scholars
in Europe. Unfortunately we possess no copy of the Tangyur, as we do
of the Kahgyur. Babu Sarat Chandra Das has succeeded in obtaining
the loan of one volume from the Labrong Monastery in Sikkini ; but if
the whole were accessible to him, the value of his work would be greatly
increased.
But it is not merely the scientific terms of classical literature that
will find a place in this dictionary. The work is intended, as far as
possible, to be complete ; and will include the language of the present
time and of every-day use — in fact, the current vernacular of Tibet.
Contributions have also been levied from a large collection of Tibetan
and Bhootea correspondence, captured during the late Tibetan cam-
paign. These contain a great variety of idiomatic and honorific words
and phrases, the use of which is confined to correspondence and to polite
conversation. Prom another quarter has been obtained a large stock
of Avords peculiar to the terminology of the Pon mysticism, which is
thought to have preceded Buddhism in Tibet. These terms are little
known to orthodox Buddhists, and were entirely unknown to either
Csoma or Jaschke. Readers of our publications will remember how
many papers on the Pon religion Babu Sarat Chandra Das has contri-
buted to the Journal, from books and materials which he collected
during his residence in Tibet. Aid is also promised from abroad ;
Professor Foucaux of Paris having kindly offered to place at Babu
Sarat Chandra Das' disposal the materials that he has himself collected
with a similar object, including a long list of philosophical terms from
Buddhist-Sanskrit sources. Finally, in the interpretation of Sanskrit
terms, Babu Sarat Chandra will have the valuable assistance of Pandit
Hari Mohan Vidyabhushan, the Pandit employed by this Society.
The arrangement of the dictionary will be alphabetical ; all the
words derived from one root being placed together under that root, and
each word being again found in its alphabetical place, with a reference
to the word under which its meaning is discussed. The difficult question
of pronunciation is provided for by a method at once simple and clear.
Typographical devices will be used to distinguish modern and colloquial
words from those that are scientific or ancient. Some of the work is
now ready for the press, but it will necessarily take a long time before
so elaborate an undertaking is completed.
Of works published in 1891 outside the Society, on subjects relating
to Oriental Philology, the following may be noticed : —
Introduction to the History of Language, by H. A. Strong, W. S.
Logeman and B. I. Wheeler. — This useful book professes to be little
