42 Address. [Feb.
more than an exposition of the German work of Prof. Paul on the
Principles of the History of Language — a reproduction of the same
mutter in less technical language, and with illustrations drawn mainly
from languages with which the English student is thought to be f ami-
liar. It will be welcomed by all to whom the Gennan work may be
inaccessible.
Comparative Dictionary of the Indo-European Languages by Profe:-SOR
A. Fick. Fourth, edition. — The first edition of this great work was
published more than 20 years ago, and created an epoch in the history
of scientific philology. Since then Comparative Philology has made
great progress ; some old theories have been overthrown, some disputed
points have been determined, and new discoveries have been made. It
is no wonder, then, that the fourth edition is, in many respects, a new
work. The field is too vast for one scholar, and Prof. Fick has now
secured the assistance of the best men in each department, such as
Sir Whitley Stokes, Prof. Bezzenberger and others. The Dictionary
contains three comparative vocabularies, one of the " parent speech,"
another of the Eastern, and the third of the Western European periods
of linguistic unity.
The Memoirs of Shah Tahmdsp I of Persia, by Dr. Paul Horn. —
The Persian text of this work, towards the editing of which the Society
contributed a MS. from its library, has been published by Dr. Horn in the
Journal of the German Oriental Society for 1891. A German transla-
tion has been published by him in a separate little volume, with some
useful notes and an index of names.
Mdnava Dharma S'dstram, edited with a Commentary by Pandit Biii-
ma Sena Sak.man. — This is a new edition of the well-known law-book of
Manu, which has been repeatedly published, the last time by Pro-
lessor .Jolly in Triibner's Oriental Series. The author explains in his
preface his reasons for republishing the work, on which he promises to
throw much new light in his commentary. It promises to be an exten-
sive undertaking. Seven fasciculi have appeared, and the Pandit is still
in the midst of his introductory dissertation, in which he discusses such
questions as the identity of Mann, the date of his writing, and the object
of his law-book, and speculates on the contents of each of its chapters.
The book is written in both Sanskrit and Hindi.
Catnloyus Catalnijornm, by PROFESSOR Th. AuFRECHT. — This is perhaps
the most valuable publication of the year. H is a descriptive list of all
Sanskrit Literature and Sanskrii authors known, and has been published
at the expense of the English Government.
Theodore Anfrecht holds a very high place among the Sanskrit
scholars of Europe. He was already well known to the learned world
