1892.] Address. 43
by his Latin Catalogue of Sankrit MSS. in the Bodleian at Oxford,
and by his English Catalogue of those in Trinity College, Cambridge.
His Oatalogus Oatalogorum is a work of the first importance, which has
cost him thirty years of close application. In it he has arranged in
alphabetical order the names of Sanskrit works and their authors so
far as they were procurable. He has given references to the catalogue
or catalogues in which these names are to be found. Under the
titles of books, he has given the names of their Commentaries in alpha-
betical order, and under the names of authors, he has given the names
of all books attributed to them. It is an invaluable work of reference to
the bibliographer and to those engaged in the search for Sanskrit MSS.
The labour of these investigators will be greatly ecconomised, for they
will not need to trouble themselves about works which have already
been described by eminent men like Biihler, Peterson and others. Eco-
nomy of space in future catalogues is a matter of great importance.
Aufrecht has compiled his work from 56 different series of cata-
logues, published from the time of Sir William Jones up to the present day.
He has made full use of the catalogues published in connexion with the
search for Sanskrit MSS. in India. It was a drawback to him that these
works have not been prepared on one uniform plan. Some of them are
mere lists of names ; others, while giving some information about the
works in a tabular form, are silent as to their contents ; others again give
detailed information in English about important works, relegating those of
less importance to a tabular statement of no great value, while the descrip-
tions, being given in English, are useless to the pandits of India. It
requires a thorough acquaintance with these different catalogues to be
able to find out from Aufrecht whether any MS. under inquiry has been
adequately described or not in a previous catalogue.
To the works above named may be added, Studies on the History of the
Indo-European Languages, by C. Bartholomae, and a Grammar of the
Khassi Language by the Rev. H. Roberts.
Among papers that have appeared in the different periodicals of
Europe, the following deserve mention : —
(1) A series of papers by Dr. R. Morris in the Academy (May to
August 1891,) on Pali and Jaina Prakrit words of obscure or peculiar
etymology.
(2) A paper by Professor E. Leumann in the Vienna Oriental
Journal, Vol. V, No. 2, on the legend of Chitta and Sambhiita, as given
in Buddhist and Jaina records. (This is one of the 550 Jatakas or birth-
stories of the Buddhists.)
(3) A paper in the same number of the Journal, by Professor H.
Jacobi on Indian Metres, showing that the development of Indian
