44 Address. [Feb.
metres cannot be explained on the rhythmical theory, but must have
followed an entirely different line ; and that it cannot be fully known
\\ hat this line was until Ave acquire a more accurate knowledge of Indian
Music. Mr. C. B. Clarke's paper on the theory of Indian Music, origi-
nally published in the Calcutta Review, is doubtless familiar to many
members of this Society, and was, I believe, the fh*st attempt made to
treat the question scientifically.
(4) A paper by A. Conrady in the Journal of the German Oriental
Society, containing the grammar and examples of the Newari language.
(5) A paper in the same Journal by Prof. Th. Noldeke, on the
texts of the Book of the Ten Vazirs, especially on an old Persian version
of it.
Search for Sanskrit MSS. — Professor Aufrecht's Oatalogus Cata-
logorum leads me to refer to the work that has recently been done in
the search for Sanskrit MSS., for which purpose a liberal grant has been
for some years made by the Government of India. I am indebted
to Pandit Hara Prasad Shastri for the following account of the work
of the last few years.
The collection of Sanskrit MSS. and the publication of their cata-
logues by eminent men like Sir William Jones, Colonel Mackenzie,
Horace Hayman Wilson, Colebrooke and others, created an interest in
these MSS. in Europe from the time that Sanskrit first became known to
scholars about a hundred years ago. Every one in India who had a taste
for Sanskrit collected MSS., and gave or sold them to one or other of the
numerous libraries in Europe. But about 25 years ago it was found
that with the decadence of Native States, the encouragement given by
tin- Government of India to English education, and the consequent
loss of the influence which Brahmans exercised over the Hindu popula-
tion, Sanskrit learning was falling into neglect, tols began rapidly to
disappear, and collections of MSS. remained uncared for in the posses-
sion of men avIio could not appreciate their worth. A great pandit
dies; his son, an educated gentleman with no knowledge of Sanskrit,
takes some care of the MSS., but merely as a memento of his learned
tat her ; wraps them up carefully, dries them in the sun after the rainy
season, and preserves them in the best room in his family dwelling
boose. Bui Ins tastes are different, his children are educated under
widely different circumstances, and these consider the MSS. as mere
lumber, which occupy space where they could conveniently put a
™d™ or a chair. Assoonas they come into possession, they relegate
the MSS. to the lumber room, the cook-x*oom or the cow-shed, where young
girls taught by the Zenana Mission use them as waste-paper; the
plauks being utilised to kindle fire for cooking. This state of things
