1892.] Address. 45
becoming widely known, a letter was addressed by Pandit Radha Kissen
of the late Lahore Darbar to the Government of India, urging Govern-
ment to do something for the preservation of these MSS. ; and after
much correspondence a liberal grant was made for the purpose by the
Government of Lord Lawrence. The various Provincial Governments
made their own arrangements for carrying on the search for Sans-
krit MSS. In Madras these operations have been carried on by A. C.
Burnell, Gustav Oppert and Lewis Rice ; in Bombay by the celebrated
scholars, Biihler, Kielhorn, Bhandarkar and Peterson ; in the Punjab by
Kashinath Kunte ; and in Oudh by Deviprasad. In the North- Western
Provinces the duty was entrusted to the Librarian of the Benares Sanskrit
College. In Bengal the work was given to the Asiatic Society, which
made it over in turn to Raja Rajendralala Mitra who, assisted by
three pandits, one of whom travelled all over the country, published
several volumes of Notices of Sanskrit MSS. in the course of 19 years.
A very large number of private libraries was visited. Notices were
prepared by the travelling pandit in a prescribed form, giving a de-
tailed abstract of any new book that he happened to find. But the work
of compiling and editing these Notices, and putting them into a present-
able shape, was done by the Raja himself. His work has elicited just
praise from Theodore Aufrecht in the Gatalogus Catalogorum. The Raja
intended to write a critical report of the works brought to light during
the period he was in charge, and it is a source of great regret that he
has been removed from the scene of his labours before he had time to
accomplish his wishes.
Inspection of Sanskrit Tols. — The attention of the Government of
Bengal having been directed to the decline that was alleged to be taking
place in the populai-ity and efficiency of the indigenous institutions
known as tols, in which for centuries past Sanskrit has been taught by
pandits of repute to succcessive generations of pupils, the Lieutenant-
Governor, Sir Charles Elliott, deputed Mahamahopadhyaya Mahes
Chandra Nyayaratna, C. 1. E., the Principal of the Sanskrit College of
Calcutta, to inspect and report on these institutions. For more than
60 years an allowance of Rs. 100 a month has been made by the Govern-
ment for the support of pupils in the tols of Nadiya, and this allowance
has in recent years been increased to Rs. 150, and again to Rs. 200 a month.
Grants of Rs. 500 a year each are also made to the Dacca Sarasvati
Sam&j and the Behar Sanskrit Sanjivan, two local associations of pandits
and of those interested in Sanskrit study, for the improvement of the
tols by means of examinations and rewards. The Lieutenant-Governor
intimated a wish to make a further grant in support of the tols, if it
should be found on inquiry that money could be usefully spent in the
