46 Address. [Fet?.
furtherance of that object. Pandit Mahes Chandra Nyayaratna was ac-
cordingly placed on special duty for three months, during which he visited
all the chief centres of Sanskrit learning in Bengal, Behar and Orissa ; and
he has now submitted a report which will, I hope, soon be made public, and
which gives many interesting details, hitherto unpublished, regarding
the constitution of the tols, the course of studies pursued in them, and
the special characteristics which distinguish them in different parts of
the province. A full account is also given of the various institutions, re-
lio-ious or secular, which have been locally established in recent years for
the promotion of Sanskrit study ; of the Sanskrit schools maintained by
these associations as well as by individual patrons of learning ; of the
examinations conducted by them, either independently or in subordina-
tion to the Sanskrit Title examination, held annually by Government in
Calcutta and other centres for the award of Sanskrit titles to the stu-
dents of tols ; and of the effect of such examinations in maintaining and
stimulating the study of Sanskrit. The following extract from the
report will be of interest, as showing the causes that have led to the de-
cline of the tols : —
" The old custom of sons pursuing the calling of the father, which
made pandits' sons grow up to be pandits, unless they happened to
lack the mental power to do so, is losing its hold upon the country, and
pandits' sons arc accordingly being trained up for secular callings that
promise better prospects from a worldly point of view than the calling
of a pandit. Thus it is that families of pandits in Bengal have all
been tendino- to assimilate themselves to the other Brahman families
of the province, i. e., have all been tending towards secular call ings
that hold out prospects of pecuniary gain. Most of the best pandits
of Bengal, all the Mahamahopadhyayas without exception, have trained
up or are training up their sons or grandsons for other callings than
their own — have given them or are giving them, in fact, an English
education. It is but natural that men should prepare their sous
for such walks of life as they think would be most advantageous
to them, and this is what the pandits of Bengal have been doing.
Non-pandit Brahman families hardly ever think of training up any
juvenile member at a tol for the career of a pandit. Our tols arc
thus being threatened with a stoppage of supply of boys. An utter
stoppage of supply is not likely to occur in the near future but
matters appear to be clearly tending to this. The aggregate intellect ual
capacity <>l' the present generation of tol students is lower than that
ol" the past generation as unquestionably, I think, as the number is
lower- ; and this deterioration in quality and decrease in number, judging
from present circumstances, tend to be progressive. To arrest this
