1892.] Address. 49
Andth Bdhtk presents a faithful picture of Hindii family life in the
Mufassil, both in wealth and in poverty. Vimsa 8'atdbdi is a work of
fiction, giving a picture of what India may be a hundred years hence.
Sankalpa Siiryodaya in Tamil is an adaptation of a Sanskrit drama
of the same name, which is unknown to the learned world outside
Southern India. It is something like an allegory, though not written
in the manner of the Prabodha Chandrodaya of Krishna Misra. It is
written in the interest of Ramanuja's followers.
The drama describing the career of the great Jaina saint Sthula-
bhadra in Gujarati shows that Jaina saints have still a hold on the people
of India. Rambhdmanjari is a newly written Sanskrit drama from
Southern India. Such works in Sanskrit are not at all rare in any part
of India. Kali Kautuka Riipaka is an allegorical Hindu drama which
describes the evils of the Kali Yuga.
1X * Grammars and Lexicons. — These works are of great philological
°* ae, and some of the very best books have been published during the
I iriod under review. The Pandits of East Bengal are rapidly publish-
ing all supplementary works of the Kdtantra or Kaldpa school of grammar.
Pandit Hrisikesa Shastri has finished his edition of the Supadma
Kaumudi, a work based on Panini, but written, it is said, by a descendant
of the great Vararuchi. Rasagangddhara, an important rhetorical work
of great value, is being published in the Kdvyamdld series of Bombay.
Works still more rare and important have been issued in Madras.
Urichol Nikdndu is a rare lexicon of the Tamil tongue. It was long
supposed to have been lost. It gives, in the form of the celebrated
Amarakosha, the synonyms of all things in heaven and earth, with the
exception of abstract qualities. Nighantu, of which Nikdndu is only
a Tamil form, means ' a work of synonyms ' ; and we have the great
Vedic Nighantu, on which Yaska has written his Nirukta in the
form of a Commentary. Pingala Nikdndu is another important dis-
covery of a lost work. The synonyms in this work are those of
metrical, grammatical and rhetorical terms. Another lexicon, a medical
one, in Telugu, gives synonyms of words divided according to the six
medical rasas to which all things belong. Many Gujarati merchants
trade with the Western Coast of Africa, where the Swahili is the chief
language, and so these merchants have published a guide to the Swahili
language in the Gujarati character. This, like most African lan-
guages, has no written character of its own. Besides these, Bombay
has published a Hebrew Dictionary, to help people in acquiring a know-
ledge of the Hebrew, Chaldaic and Talmudic languages, and a metrical
grammar of the Avasta language.
The Visva Kosha, a Bengali encyclopaedia, was stopped for want of
