50 Address. [Feb.
support five years aga Bdbii Ndgendra Nath Basu has undertaken to
earry it on, and has published 12 parts in the year. The last word is
KcMkati, or Calcutta, and the writer has collected a mass of very valuable
information on the history and antiquities of the city.
History. — The historical literature of Bengal, the North-Western
Provinces, and Sindh is of no great importance. Maharashtra and
the Pan jab have a history, and are therefore rich in historical
literature. The Panjab has not, however, published anything of
importance except Karuuimd-i-waliyan Sialkot, giving the history
of Peshwara Singh and Kashmira Singh, the reputed sons of Ran jit
Singh, the Lion of the Panjab. In Marathi, however, have been pub-
lished a history of Shambhuji and Rajaram, the sons of Shivaji ;
Dhundhu Bala Krishna Sahasrabuddhi's account of the career of Para-
al mram Rao and of the troubles of his times; the Chronicles of the
Peshwas from 1713 to 1818, that is, for the entire period of their exig-
ence as a great power in India, by an officer of the Court of Baji RaoII. ,
writ tin either immediately before or immediately after the British con-
quest in 1818 ; and a history of Madhu Rao II, who was succeeded by
Baji Rao II. The history of Surat from its foundation 700 years ago,
in Gujarati ; an abstract history of Mecca in Urdu ; a history of the Itia-
pura family in Madras, who materially helped Government in suppressing
the rising of the Polygars in 1800, in Tamil ; Tdrikh-i Bandras in Urdu;
the letters of 'Alamgir in Persian ; and the Memoirs of Dehli and Fyza-
bad in English, compiled from Persian sources, — these are all the works
in history of any importance which have been published during the
period under review.
Essays. — A Collection of the Political Opinions of the late Sir
T. Madhava Rao, in two parts, in English, is the only work on politics
worth the name. Sir T. Madhava Rao was a sound thinker on religious,
social and administrative matters, and his opinions have always ex-
ercised an immense influence on the educated natives of India. The
literature of the Congress and of the Cow Protection movement is as
copious as in previous years. We have works on tho Cow Protection
movement in almost every language. Even the Central Provinces,
which publish next to nothing of importance, have issued an appeal
for the protection of cows. The Consent Bill agitation has produced
a very Large number of pamphlets, many of which have not been
received in the Libraries as they were intended for private circulation
only.
The Caste books are becoming more and moi-c important. The
Sonars of Southern India claim descent from VisVa Karman and call
themselves Brahmans. They have published books both in Tamil and in
