1892.] Address. 51
Marathi. The pretentions of the Kayasthas of Bengal to a Kshatriya
descent have been opposed by a Brahman in the work entitled Hathdt
Kshatriya. The publication of the Balldla Charita is significant. The
Jogis and Sonar Baniyas of Bengal think that Ballal Sen degraded
them, and so they have unearthed a Balldla Charita, which paints
Ballal in the darkest colours possible. The Sennars or toddy dealers of
Southern India have been cried down in a Tamil pamphlet.
The A'rya Samaj people have been for years carrying on a contro-
versy against the orthodox Hindus on the one hand, and against the
Musalmans on the other, giving to the literature of the Panjab a life
and vigour which are wanting in other provinces. No less than 15
pamphlets have been marked in one quarterly catalogue alone against
the theory of the transmigration of the soul. The locusts have also
absorbed a good deal of the attention of Panjabi writers. The im-
morality and dissolute lives of the Maharajas, or Abbots of the followers
of Ballabhacharya, have been exposed in a work entitled Pushtimdrga.
Travels and Voyages are rarely undertaken by the great majority
of the Indian people. Most of the works under this head treat of
single journeys on business, from one part of India to another or
from India to England. Pandita Ramabai, however, is writing a large
work, in parts, of her travels in England and America. A description
of the journey undertaken by the Shah of Persia to England and France
has appeared in Urdu. Visvagunadarsana is the description of an ima-
ginary journey in Sanskrit, which has been translated into Tamil for the
benefit of the people of Southern India.
Poetry and Religion. — In the palmy days of Indian literature,
when the Hindu mind retained its full vigour, the domains of poetry,
philosophy and religion were kept distinct. But with the decadence of
literature and the loss of independence, these three things began to be
so blended together that it is impossible to separate them ; as is the case
with the mediaeval poetry of India. The Premabhaktichandrikd and the
Smaranamangala, both in Bengali, by two of the great leaders of the
followers of Chaitanya, belong to this class of poetry. They comprise
the poetry, philosophy and religion of Vaishnavism. The Bdma Basd-
yana in Bengali is also a work of this class. It shows, however, how
the different sects in India derived their materials from the original
Aryan and Brahmanic sources, and adapted them to their own use. As
a Vaishnava work, the Bdma Basdyana leaves out those incidents of
Rama's life which have any thing to do with S'akta or S'aiva worship.
Nalayira Divyaprabandham, called the Tamil Veda, in Tamil verse, is
a large work in honour of Vishnu. It was written by the Vaishnava
Alwars, There is a very noteworthy point of difference between the
