52 Address. [Feb.
Bengal and the Madras religious publications. While in Bengal the
"writers are concerned more with the spread of the worship of different
superhuman beings like the Satycuuirayana, the Trindtha, Mangalachandi
and others, the Madras people are fond of writing short treatises in
honour of the deities of different temples, such as the Vishnu of Teru
Narayanpura, the S'iva and Durga of Teru Mulainayal, the Natesa
of the Chidambara temple, and so on.
Jaina religious works in prose and verse are to be found in
almost every province of India. The most remarkable production of the
year is the Jayati Huana Stotra, in Prakrit, by the great commentator
Abhaya Deva Suri, who lived about 800 years ago. He discovered an
image of Jina on the banks of a river, and consecrated it in Cambay.
The work is in honour of this image. The Jaina S'ataka in Sanskrit
by Bhudan Das, the Basiha Stavana Hangraha in Gujarati, are also Jaina
works of importance published during the year. Chuldmani is a rare
classical poem of Jaina origin, published for the first time in Tamil.
The Bincard is a very ancient work in Pahlavi. It has been published
for the first time, though in a very mutilated form for want, apparently,
of good texts, with an English and a Gujarati translation. Dara
Shiko, the eldest son of Shah Jahan, was a very enlightened prince.
He was a follower of the Ilahi religion of his great-grandfather, and
often held conversations on religious matters with professors of different
religions, especially with Hindu devotees. A dialogue between him and
Baba Lai Das, in Persian, has been translated into Urdu. It is a work of
the nature of the Milinda Prasna, between Menander and a Buddhist
monk. The ex-Raja of Venkatagiri has written a remarkable work in
Telugu, in which he discusses some of the most absh-use doctrines of
religion. Books in support of the Brahmo movement have been received
from all the southern presidencies.
A collection of epigraphical songs by Tukaram, Nama Deva, Eka-
natha, <ve. ; Kahiraj IJhukhan's short poems on Shivaji and Chhatrasal,
the Raja of Panna ; and a collection of ballads in I hree parts devoted to
the glorification of the Satara Raj family.the Peshwa family, and the
Marhatta Sirdars, are publications of great value to the Marhatta
people.
Among the serial publications of philological interest, BabdPratapa
Chandra Raya's English translation of the MahdbMrata is steadily ap-
proaching a conclusion. It has advanced to the S'&nti Parvom. Pandit
Ramanarayana Tarkaratna is issuing regularly in parts some of the
most important works on Chaitanyaisni in Sanskrit and in Bengali.
He is now engaged with the Chaitanya Gharit&mfita Mahdkdvya and the
Haribhahtivildsa. The Khargavikis Press of Bankipur has issued,
