1892.] Address. b'6
under the distinguished patronage of Mr. Grierson, a complete Bdma
Char it Manas, commonly known as Tnlsi Krita Bdmdydna. It has been
edited from very ancient MSS. Babti Barada Prasad Basil's revised edi-
tion of S'abdakalpadruma, with copious and valuable additions, has come
up to the letter ya, and his edition of the Devibhagavat is making fair
progress.
The A'nandasrama series of Sanskrit works, published at Poona,
has issued six important works — S'ri S'ankaradigvijaya, with the com-
mentary of Dhanapati Suri and extracts from the commentary of
Achyuta'Rao Modak, the Budrddhyaya, with the Bhashyas of Sayana
Bhatta Bhaskara, three Upanishads with rare commentaries, and Vidya-
ranya Swamin's Jivana Mukti Gitd. The Kavyamala series, published at
Bombay, contains a very large number of poetical pieces of all sizes in
Sanskrit, written mostly before the Muhammadan conquest. The MSS.
of these works were discovered by Messrs. Biihler, Kielhorn, Bhandar-
kar, and Peterson in the various libraries of "Western and North-West-
ern India, both public and private, while in charge of the operations in
search of Sanskrit manuscripts. The last number contains the Hara
Vijaya by Rajanka Ratnakar, so well described in one of the Bombay
Reports. The Prdchina Kdvyamdld Grantha, published from Ahmedabad
and Baroda, has issued twelve parts. It contains the works of Gujarati
poets of great celebrity and popularity.
While treating of the publications of philological value in Bombay,
the labours of Colonel G. A. Jacob deserve prominent notice. He has
worked hard for eight years in preparing a complete concordance of the
principal Upanishads and the Bhagavat Gitd, entitled JJpanishad Vdkya
Kasha. The greatest activity in editing and publishing Sanskrit texts
is to be found, as might be expected, in Benares, the centre of Hindu
culture from the remotest period of Indian antiquity. The Pandit, a
monthly paper edited by the Pandits of the Benares Sanskrit College,
continues to be published. It contains many rare works of great value.
In the Benares Sanskrit series Messrs. Griffith and Thibaut are pub-
lishing a number of philosophical works ; and in the Vijayanagaram
series under the superintendence of Mr. Venis, who is now engaged in
the publication of the Nydya Kandali, written by a Bengali Brahman
in the 10th century of the Vikrama era, much valuable work is done.
Nor should I omit to mention the TJshd, edited by the venerable
Pandit Satyavrata Samasrami, who has done so much for Vedic Litera-
ture in India. The TJshd is a Vedic journal, and it has already published
a large number of small works bearing on the pronunciation, chanting
and meaning of Vedic words.
