54 Address. [Feb.
Undei' this head we have a paper by Mr. C. H. Tawney, c. i. e.,
on some ancient Indian Methods of electing
^History, Ethnology, Kings, published in the Proceedings of November
1891 ; and another by Mr. W. P. Driver on
some interesting Kolarian tribes of Chutia Nagpur and the borders
of Orissa, published in Part I of the Journal. There is also an interest-
ing paper in the Journal by Dr. Waddell on " Place and River Names in
Sikhim," in which an account is given of the different ethnic elements
of the population of this tract, and the etymology and meaning of
names derived from different sources are determined.
In the Indian Antiquary we find papers by Mr. J. F. Fleet, c. i. E.,
on the Chronology of the Eastern Chalukya Kings, and on the computa-
tion of Hindu dates ; by Major R. C. Temple, on the Burmau system
of arithmetic, a cumbrous system which, in a modified form, is still in
vogue among Hindu astrologers all over India ; by Professor Kielhorn,
an examination of questions connected with the Vikrama ei*a, and a
paper on the Saptarshi era ; and by Dr. Hoernle, two pat tavalis of the
Sarasvati Gachchha of the Digambara Jains, — the first publication of
a complete series of the Pontiffs of the Digambara section of the Jains.
There is also a series of papers on Indian folk-lore, by G. F. D'Penha,
Pandit Natesa Shastri and Putlibai D. H. Wadia. Professor Biihler
publishes a paper in Vol. V., Part 3, of the Vienna Oriental Journal, on
the origin of the Gupta Vallabhi era, in which he proves, against Fleet,
that the Gupta era is not a Nepalese but an Indian era, marking
the epoch of the accession of Chandra Gupta I to imperial rule. The
Journal of the German Oriental Society contains several papers of value
on Indian Subjects.
The Tribes and Castes of Bengal, by H. H. Risley, c, I. E., c. s. ; 4
volumes. — This extensive work, consisting of 4 volumes, gives us the re-
sults of the ethnographic inquiry instituted by the Government of Bengal
in the beginning of 1885. The inquiry was originally intended to extend
to the whole of India, but ultimately it was not found possible to go be-
yond Bengal. Mr. Risley, who was placed in charge of the inquiry, has
succeeded in these vol nines in bringing together what appears to be an
exhaustive account of Bengal with reference to the tribes and castes
inhabiting it. In the first two volumes he gives an enumeration and
description of them in alphabetical order in the form of a glossary. In
the last two are put. together bhe tables of anthropometric data, on
which Mr. Ris ley's ethnographic generalisations are based. These he
sets out in the introduction bo the first volume, and they form not the
least important or interesting part of his work. The conclusions at
which he arrives are briefly these : The whole of India LB inhabited by a
