1892.] Address. 59
further loss and injury, but is made permanently accessible to the
student of archaeology and of the history of religions. A full catalogue
of the collection will be prepared as soon as Babu P. C. Mukharjca returns
from his present tour.
Site of the Black Hole of Calcutta. — During the year 1891 a con-
siderable advance has been made towards accurately determining the
topography of Old Fort "William, Calcutta, the result of which has
been to disturb the accepted views regarding the site of the Black Hole.
Reports of these investigations have appeared from time to time in
the daily papers ; but it seems desirable to give a permanent place in
the Proceedings of this Society to a short account of a discovery which
we owe to the energy of our Philological Secretary, Mr. 0. R. Wilson,
to whose kindness I am indebted for the following notes.
The first attempts in this direction were made nine years ago
by Mr. R. R. Bayne, a member of the Asiatic Society, who dis-
covered nearly all the foundation walls of the northern portion of
the Fort, during the erection of the East India Railway Offices in
Clive Street. In February 1883, Mr. Bayne laid before the Asiatic
Society the results of his investigations. Unfortunately they suffered
under two disadvantages. In the first place, the portions of the old
building actually excavated were on the northern and least interesting
side of the fort. In the second place, Mr. Bayne had no proper plan to
guide him in his conjectures as to the position and nature of the remain-
ing portions of the fort. The investigations of 1891 have been carried
on under far more favourable conditions. Availing himself of the op-
portunity afforded him by the erection of the New Government Offices
in Dalhousie Square, Mr. Wilson has succeeded in discovering con-
siderable remains of the buildings on the south side of the Fort, where
the Black Hole and other places of interest were situated ; and he has
had the advantage of being guided in his excavations by a detailed plan
of Fort William in 1753, a photographed copy of which was presented
to the Asiatic Society by Mr. T. R. Munro. The results of these investi-
gations have been so successful that it has been found possible to draw
up a plan of the Old Fort, accurately showing its position with reference
to the modern houses now standing on or near its site, together with the
main features of its principal buildings. Mr. Wilson's investigations
began with the discovery of the true dimensions and position of the east
gate of the Fort. The gate was found to be much smaller than Mr.
Bayne had conjectured it would be. Its centre lies on the central lino
of the road in front of Writers' Buildings, which has always been one of
the principal streets of the city. In the next place Mr. Wilson has
traced out, as far as was possible, the main features of the factory within
