60 AdJreee. [Fee.
the Fort, in which were situated the apartments of the Governor. This
was in its day one of the finest English houses in India. It consisted of
a main building facing the river, with two wings behind at right angles
to the main building. Almost all the foundation walls of these wings
have been traced out by excavations, and the position of the walls of the
main building has been ascertained, although the walls themselves could
not be traced out, as the site of the main building is at present occupied
by the Government Opium godowns and by the out-houses of the Custom
House. 13esides this, Mr. Wilson has endeavoured as far as possible to as-
certain the positions of the south curtain, of the south-east bastion, and of
that portion of the east curtain which lay between the south-east bastion
and the east gate, together with the adjoining arcades and chambers.
Considerable difficulty has been experienced in coming to any definite con-
clusion on these points ; for, in the first place, the Post Office covers the site
of the south-cast bastion and the adjacent south curtain wall, and so pre-
vents any extended excavations in this region ; and in the second
place, the plan of the old Fort which has elsewhere proved to be
extremely accurate, seems at this point to fail. Still, in spite of these
difficulties, Mr. Wilson has been able to definitely fix the position of the
south curtain wall and of the three parallel lines of arches within it, and
to show that tradition was right in asserting that the old arcade and
arches which still stand in the Post Office compound were part
of the old Fort. The arches of the south face of this arcade arc
what remains of the first line of arches within the south curtain, and
the arches in the middle of the arcade are what remain of the second
line of arches. The foundation wall of the third and innermost line of
arches has been traced out for some distance. It was found in the
passage on the north of the Post Office. Starting from this wall, or,
what is practically the same thing, from the north face of the Post
Office. Mr. Wilson has traced out the east curtain wall as far as the east
gate, the inner wall containing the chambers built against the curtain,
and the wall of the piazza or verandah running west of the chambers.
The Black Hole prison was one of these chambers ; but to fix its exact
position it is necessary to ascertain, not merely the positions of the cur-
tain wall and the inner wall, which foi'med its eastern and western walls,
but also the position of the cross- walls which formed its northern and
southern boundaries, and divided it off from the other chambers built
against the east curtain. Unfortunately these cross-walls were run up
with hardly any foundation, and hence it is extremely difficult to trace
their position. One such cross-wall has been found at a distance of
about 100 ft. from the centre of the east gate, and to the south of this
there i.-> another cross-wall which Mr. Baync discovered iu 1883, and
