1892.] Address. 61
which according to his theories must have been the north wall of the
prison. According to Mr. Wilson this cannot have been the case; be-
cause the space south of this cross-wall is shown by the plan of the
Fort to have been occupied by the foot of the staircase leading to the
south-east bastion. On the other hand Mr. Wilson thinks it quite possi-
ble that this wall is the south wall of the prison. Mr. Wilson, however,
still hopes to gain additional information concerning this and other
points in the topography of the Fort by further excavations and by the
examination of old records.
Discovery of the Boiver MS. — I will now draw attention to the great
event that has marked the history of the year, in the discovery in Kashgaria
of the Bower MS., so called by Dr. Hoernle after Lt. Bower, who found
and brought it to India. Of the history of this discovery we have the
following account by Lt. Bower. The MS., which is written on birch-bark,
" had been dug out of the foot of one of the curious old erections just out-
side a subterranean city near Kuchar." These erections are described as
being " generally about 50 or 60 feet high, in shape like a huge cottage-
loaf ; built solid of sun-dried bricks with layers of beams now crumbling
away." Dr. Hoernle reasonably conjectures that these erections are
Buddhist stupas. Such stupas, he observes, often contain a chamber
enclosing relics and other objects ; these chambers are generally near
the level of the ground, and are often dug into by persons in search of
hidden treasure. From such a practically air-tight chamber, Dr. Hoernle
thinks, this MS. was probably dug out, perhaps not long before it came
into Lt. Bower's possession ; and there is no reason why a birch-bark
MS., thus preserved from the chances of injury, should not endure for
any length of time.
The MS. was sent by Lt. Bower to Col. Waterhouse, who exhibited
it at the meeting of the Society in November 1890, but it could not then
be deciphered. An account of its acquisition by the finder, together with
facsimile reproductions of two leaves of the MS., appeared in the Pro-
ceedings for that month. On Dr. Hoernle's return to India in March
1891, the MS. passed into his hands ; and in the Proceedings for April
Dr. Hoernle gave a preliminary account of the MS., which he had then
ascertained to be written in Sanskrit of a very archaic type. The
detailed description of the MS. was published in No. II of Part I of the
Journal for 1891. In that paper Dr. Hoernle minutely analysed the forms
of the letters occurring in the MS. ; and by a chain of arguments, the
strength and lucidity of which are such as to compel the assent of every
reader, proved that the MS. was written not in the S'arada character of
Kashmir, as had been previously conjectured, but in the Gupta charac-
ter, a much earlier form ; that separate portions of it were written by
