1892.] Address. 63
It would, however, have been beyond the means of the Society to
cany out the work on so elaborate a scale ; and when this fact was re-
presented to the Government of Bengal, and subsequently to the Govern-
ment of India, these two Governments, by a joint arrangement, very
readily and liberally agreed to render the necessary assistance for the
editing and publication of the MS. The Society will be glad to learn
that the Government of Bengal has relieved Dr. Hoernle of his other
duties during the whole time necessary for the completion of the work,
while the Government of India has undertaken to defray the consi-
derable expenses connected with the publication, including photographic
facsimiles of every page of the MS. For these services to scholarship,
the cordial thanks of the Society and of all interested in the progress
of Oriental research are due to the Governments concerned.
[Since the foregoing was sent to Press, Dr. Hoernle informs me that
he has received a further communication on the subject of the date of
the MS. from Professor Biihler, who now intimates that he is inclined
to assign to the MS. an even higher antiquity than that already assigned
to it, possibly by 50 or 100 years. Indeed, Dr. Hoernle himself has
independently come to the conclusion, since writing his paper of Novem-
ber 1891, that no part of the MS. can probably be dated later than the
first half of the 5th century. Dr. Biihler, I may add, in a second paper
published in the Vienna Oriental Journal, recommends Dr. Hoernle's
" able and elaborate argumentation " to all Indian epigraphists for most
careful study, and describes it as " by far the most important contri-
bution to Indian epigraphy which has appeared of late."]
I may begin my remarks under this head with the following extract
. . from the Preface to an elaborate report on the
Numismatics. <• -»t • ,. • ••--■.*
progress ot Numismatics m India from 1886 to
1891, which was presented by Mr. Vincent Smith to the recent Congress
of Orientalists. This preface is republished in the Academy of Octo-
ber 31st, 1891. After giving a very interesting description of the
eleven classes into which he divides Indian coins, with an account of the
chief discoveries under each, in which he quotes largely from the Pro-
ceedings of this Society, Mr. Smith proceeds : —
" I shall conclude by calling special attention to the disinterested
labours of Dr. Hoernle, much of whose valuable time is taken up by the
examination of the thousands of coins which are poured in upon him
from all quarters. In his address for L889, the President of the Asiatic
Society of Bengal records the fact that during the previous year Dr.
Hoernle had examined and reported upon more than 4,000 coins, of
which vast number 2,460 were noted in the Proceedings. In 1887 the
same indefatigable worker examined more than 3,200 coins."
