G4 Address. [Fer.
Dr. Hoernlu informs me that he has examined and reported on about
2,000 coins since his return to India in March 1891, though only one
among them required particular notice, namely, the very rare gold Gupta
coin of the " Couch " type, noticed below. Nearly all were sent to him
under the Treasure Trove Act.
Mr. J. Rodgers' private collection, containing upwards of 8,000 coins,
has been purchased by the Punjab Government for the Lahore Museum,
— a great acquisition. Duplicates will probably be supplied to other
Museums. Its special feature is the collection of Indian Moghul
coins, which is almost exhaustive.
Mr. Rivett-Carnac's valuable collection will probably, it is under-
stood, be purchased by the Government of India for the Indian Muse-
um. The special feature of this collection is the series of gold Gupta
coins, which is unequalled in quantity and quality, containing upwards
of 100 specimens, some unique and most of them rare ; e. g., the gold
coin of the " Couch " type of Chandra Gupta II, an account of which
by Dr. Hoernle was published in our Proceedings for August.
An important find of Roman coins was made near Bangalore in the
course of the year. They number 163, all silver denarii of ten types,
belonging to the reigns of Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius and
Antonia, mostly of the two first-named. All are of known types. A
report on these coins has been given by Mr. Rice in the Records of the
Indian Museum, Calcutta, to which specimens of the coins of Augustus
and Tiberius have been presented by the Mysore Government.
The following work recently published by an Honorary Member of
our Society deserves prominent notice : — •
Coins of Ancient India from the earliest Times down to the Seventh
Century, A. D.—By Major-General Sm A. Cunningham, k. c. S. i., c. i. e.,
it. E.
This is a most welcome contribution fi'om the greatest living autho-
rity on Indian numismatics ; all the more so, as it treats of the more
obscure classes of the ancient Indian coinage. The well-known and
generally well-preserved coins of the Satraps of Surashtra, and of the
Ghipta kings of Magadha, have been fully described in the Journal
<>f Die Royal Asiatic Society, the former by the late Pandit Bhagwan Lai
I ndiaji, the latter by Mr. V. Smith. But no one seemed to feel equal to
the task of bringing together and classifying the numerous smaller
classes of silver and copper coins, the ascription of which was obscure.
rind many of which were in a very indifferent state of preservation,
Sir A. Cunningham alone possessed the requisite knowledge and ex-
perience; and the long-expected work from his pen will, therefore,
lie most gratefully welcomed by all numismatists. It first explains,
