LS92.] Address. 65
iu an introduction, the origin of Indian coinage, and its relation to that
of Assyria, Babylonia, Phoenicia and Greece. It then describes suc-
cessively the so-called punch-coins, which may be as old as 600 B. C,
and the coins of Taxila, Odumbara, Kuninda, Kosambi, Yaudheya,
Panehala, Mathura, Ayodhya, Ujain, Eran, the Andhras of South India,
and Nepal. These descriptions are illustrated by 13 plates and a map.
It may be added, that the learned author promises to publish a second
volume, which will describe the coins of mediaeval India, from 600 A. D.
down to the Muhammadan conquest.
Mr. E. J. Rapson contributed " Notes on Gupta Coins " to the
Numismatic Chronicle, Part I, for 1891. The paper gives some addi-
tions to Mr. V. A. Smith's standard work on the subject. The Indian
Antiquary for September 1891 contained a paper by Dr. E. Hultzsch
on the " Coins of the Kings of Vijayanagar," being the first attempt to
give a complete list and description of these coins.
I now turn to that department of your work which deals with the
Natural Sciences. Of Part II of the Society's
Natural Sciences. Journal, which is reserved for papers on these
subjects, three parts have already appeared during the past year, and
the volume will be completed by part 4, which is now in the press
and will shortly appear with the index and title-page for 1891.
In reviewing the Zoological work done during the year 1891, I have
thought it sufficient to confine my observa-
tions to purely Indian communications, either
from members of this Society throughout the country, or from others
working in the Bombay and Madras Presidencies.
There is no longer much scope for original work among mammals,
and I have only to notice the issue of a carefully compiled Catalogue
of Mammalia in the Indian Museum, by Mr. W. L. Sclater, M. A., p. z. s.
This catalogue includes the orders from Bodentia to Monotremata, and is
really the second part of a catalogue commenced by Dr. Anderson and
issued in 1881. Mr. Sclater has further drawn up and published a List of
the Snakes in the Indian Museum, and has also contributed to the Society's
Journal a short but valuable paper, accompanied by a plate, on the Snakes
in the Indian Museum. Five new species were described, viz : — Ablabes
titoliczhce, Simotes Wood-Masoni, Zaoccys Tenasserimensis, Tropidonotus
Pealii, and T. nicobarensis.
In the January number of the Annals and Magazine of Natural
History, Mr. J. Wood-Mason and Dr. A. Alcock published the first part
of a most interesting and useful paper on the results of the deep-sea
dredgings made by the officers of H. M. Indian Marine Survey Steamer
"Investigator" during the season 1889-90. The materials dealt with
