66 Address. [Feu.
were collected in depths ranging from 90 to 1439 fathoms, and, in the
paper referred to, were arranged in catalogue form, but no systematic
details were given except in the case of Fishes and Crustaceans. In the
order Madreporia Dr. Alcock named and described three new corals ;
two, Caryophyllia ephyala and Sleplianotrochus nitens, taken by the
collectors on the " Investigator," and one, Rhizotrochus Worsleyi, -pre-
sented to the Indian Museum by Captain Worsley. The type specimen
of Stephanotrochus nitens is a very fine one. A complete list of 35 deep-
sea fishes collected during that season is given, and includes 24 new
species. Of the other classes noted in this part of the paper, it must be
mentioned that the deep-sea Holothurians were worked out, named, and
described by Dr. J. H. Tull Walsh, who published the results of his
investigations in the Journal of our Society, Part II, No. 2. Dr. Walsh
has described all the deep-sea forms obtained from 1887 to 1891,
and notes two new genera and seven new species. In connexion with
the study of Holothurians, I would draw attention to a valuable trans-
lation of a paper by Dr. Hubert Ludwig on the development of these
creatures, which appeared in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History
for December 1891. In the February issue of the above-mentioned
Journal another portion of the paper by Mr. Wood-Mason and Dr.
Alcock appeared, and this is chiefly noteworthy on account of the new
species of Crustaceans described by Mr. Wood-Mason, and for the very
good original drawing of Nephropsis Atlantica 6 Norm, which it contains.
The March number contained a further instalment of notes on Crusta-
ceans by Mr. Wood-Mason, the most interesting and important of these
being the full and clear description of a new crab, Parilia Alcocki.
To the Annals and Magazine of Natural History for July, August,
October, November and December, Mr. Wood-Mason and Dr. Alcock
contributed a series of papers showing the results of the " Investigator "
deep-sea dredgings during the season 1890-91 ; and in the issues for
July and August Dr. Alcock described fully many new bathybial fishes.
In the October and November numbers Mr. Wood-Mason contributes
further to the literature of the Crustacea, and finally in the December
number Dr. Alcock describes certain new star-fishes. These two authors
have also conjointly contributed a most important paper to the Proceed-
iui/s if Ihr li'ni/ul Snrii-hj, " On the Uterine Villiform Papillae of Ptero-
'/iluhna micrura and their relation to the Embryo, being Natural History
Notes from H. M. Indian Marine Survey Steamer ' Investigator,' Com-
mander R. F. Hoskyn, R. N, Commanding, No. 22." To these nutrient
villi, whicli are found in certain selachian uteri, the authors have given
Ibe uame of trophenemata, at once suggesting the part they play in rela-
tion to the embryo, which i- practically suckled in ntero. 1 will com-
