1892.] S. C. Das— The Origin of the Tibetans. K9
Long' before the advent of Buddha, when the countless armies of the
Ivuru were defeated by the Pandus and the hero Duryodhana fell in the
battle-field of Kurukshetra, one of his generals named Rupati dressed
in woman's attire fled towards the Himalayas with one thousand
followers. For fear of being- pursued by the enemy, he penetrated into
the country of Himavata and settled there with his men. At that
time, the aborigines of Tibet were still wild and uncultured and lived
in caves and holes dug in mountain sides. In coarse of time, the
Indians visited the country and multiplied their settlements. The
people of Hor (Tartary) also came to Tibet. These three people
mingling togther, produced the Tibetans proper, and Avalokitesv.ini,
the patron deity of Tibet, feeling compassion for the benighted hordes
chose to appear among them as a Lama or a king. It is on this
account that even infants spontaneously lisp, in the sacred six syllables
' Om mani-peme-linm.
A scion of the Pandava dynasty after wandering in the Himalayas,
as a traveller, at last entered the country of Himavata by crossing the
pass over Lhari-tse now called Yarlha-shambo. From the top of this
mountain he descended to the valley of Yarlung, which on account of its
fertility as well as scenery and also being the place where the first
king was annointed, was called Tsan-thang go-shi (King's plain with
four entrances). At this time twelve chief herdsmen had been pasturing
their cattle in that plain. As soon as they saw the solitary prince
coming towards them from an unexpected quarter, they were struck with
wonder and curiosity, and assembled round him. When asked who he
was and whence he came, the graceful youth not knowing their language
pointed his fingers to the top of Lhari-tse which he had crossed. The
Tibetans inferred from it that he was devaputra the son of a god come
from heaven, descending the Lhari-tse (the top of the god's mountain).
They conferred together what to do with him and at last resolved
to make him their king. They then placed him on a chair re-
sembling a dooly and conveyed him to Yam bu la gang. From being-
carried on the back (N/jah) of the people in a chair (thl) and made
king (Tsan-po) he was called Nyah-thi-tsau-po.* The Tibetans under
his direction built for him a lofty house of stone called Ya,mbu lha khar
the wretched race, who were subsequently to people it. In this belief of the
Tibetans, which is too general to be totally rejected, it is not difficult to discover
strong traces of the universal deluge, though the tradition, as might naturally be
expected, is obscured by fable, and disfigured by a mixture of absurdity."
Turner's Embassy.
* There are different accounts of the parentage of this prince in the records
and ancient histories of Tibet.
