1892.] H. M. Vidyabhusliaij— The Buddhist Bhava Chakra. 101
The individual being is possessed of the six organs of sense. The
operation of these six organs of sense is called Sparsa. The state
of pleasure, pain, or indifference, produced by Sparsa, is called
Vedana. Vedana, or Sensation, working in reference to objects ex-
ternal or internal produces desire. Desire again in reference to its
objects generates a kind of activity or Upadana, a word which conveys
the same idea as the well known Buddhist term " Karma." This ac-
tivity causes Bhava, i. e., a new existence based on a new set of aggre-
gates. This again by Upadana, now acting as a concurrent cause, is
moved to existence in species, i. e., Jati. The condition of existence
in the species, be it in a god of long life or in a short lived insect, is old
age, misery, and death.
In this process it is evident that a cause, or a system of causes,
operating on each other, or on the aggregates, produces effects which
are changeful according to the nature of Karma in the individual being.
In Buddhism though it is generally held that everything is transient
and illusory, the identity or oneness of an entity in all its embodi-
ments is maintained. This is clearly illustrated by the writers of the
Jatakas of Buddha and other saintly Buddhists. For at the end of
each Jataka its hero is made to declare that in such and such birth he
was a god, a tiger, or a worm, and so on.
The idea of Ekotibhava the continued oneness of an entity in all its
embodiments thus pervading the doctrine of Buddhism forces us to
think that Dharma, or phenomena, alone are transient and non-per-
manent, and not the principal entity. The successions of phenomena
and the conditions of existence are changeful, the entity or Sattva that
enjoys or suffers remaining all the while the same.
The Buddhists think that it is possible to liberate the Sattva, the
individual self, from the influence of Avidya, and thereby from the
working of the cycle of causality believed to be the prime mover of
the Bhava Chakra.
The following papers were read : —
1 . Bdma-tanlcis, — By Man Mohan Chakravarti, M. A., B. L.
2. A vocabulary of the Korwa language collected, — By W. Crooke,
B. A., C. S.
3. On the Topography of Old Fort William, Calcutta. — By C. R.
Wilson, M. A Philological Secretary.
The papers will be published in the Journal, Part I.
