1892.] D. Praia — Fauna of Narcowlam and Barren Island. 109
to make out what Ghiassuddin this was. I beg to suggest that it was
Bahadur Khan or Bahadur Shah who also had the name of Ghias or
Ghiassuddin. (See Thomas and the Biyaz.) Bahadur Shah was skin-
ned according to Ibn Batuta and the skin was taken to Delhi, but the
body may have remained.
The other name of Ghiasabad is Badrihat (not Bodrihat, or Badri-
hat) and Hunter speaks of this as the Hindu name. But this is doubt-
ful. May it not be a contraction for Bahadurihat, i. e., the market of
Bahadur Shah ?
I have not visited the Ghiaspur or the other side of the river. It
is about 2 miles higher up the river than Ghiasabad. I am told that
there is nothing there, that the place has been washed away, and that
there is also jungle. Bahadur Shah, or Ghias, whoever he was, may
have had his city on both sides of the river just like Murshiclabad was.
Ghiaspur is disguised in the map under the name Goyespoor. If the
Ghias of Ghiasabad be not Bahadur Shah he may be the Ghiassuddin
who was killed in battle with JSasiruddin. The words "nearGaur"
may be a mistake. Of course Ghiasabad may really be Ghiaspur.
3. Remarks on the Fauna of Narcondam and Barren Island. — By
D. Prain, Esq., M. B.
During a botanical visit to these two islands, the results of
which are now being elaborated, the writer, though unable and
indeed unqualified to devote much attention to their fauna, could not
avoid coming in contact to some extent with their animal and insect
life. And perhaps his few rough notes made at the time, if thrown
into a connected form, may induce by their perusal some qualified
animal biologist to visit and investigate them thoroughly. In Mr.
Mallet's exhaustive monograph of the geological structure and physio-
graphical aspects of the islands* their flora and fauna are only
casually mentioned ; similarly, in the writer's forthcoming notice of their
vegetation, there can be but incidental allusions to their topography,
geology, or zoology. Yet from what the writer was himself able to
observe it is pi*obable that their zoology will prove as interesting as
their geology or their botany. It need hardly be said that the notes
which follow allude entirely to air-breathing creatures and that no
reference will be made to the marine fauna of the localities.
Mammalia : — A rat swarms everywhere on both islands and is the
most plentiful mammal present. Examples preserved in the Indian
Museum, obtained in Barren Island by Mr. Oldham, show that the
* Memoir* of the Geol. Survey of [•niiti, vol. xxi, pp. 251— 2SG.
