110 D. Prain — Fauna of N&rcondam avJ Barren Island. [April,
species is the Andamanese form of the widely distributed Tree-Hal
[Mus rattus var. andamanensis.)*
In Narcondam at dusk a frugivorous bat was observed flitting from
tree to tree, and in Barren Island the writer came upon an example of
T&umphii, on the outer aspect of the outer cone and about half a
mile to the north of the lauding place at the hot-spring, which was the
home of a colony of these creatures. The writer was able to reach a
point on the cliff almost overlooking the tree and where he was not
more than twenty-five yards away from the bats. He was able to see
that they were of a very dark brown (almost black) colour but, having
no fowling-piece, he could not secure a specimen. f It is not improbable
that, as in the case of the rats, the bats on the two islands belong to
the same species.
Goats have more than once been landed on both islands. On Nar-
condam there were however none to be seen and when one recollects
that for a considerable portion of the year the island is absolutely water-
less the fact is not surprising. And those formerly landed on Barren
Island must also have perished, for a few years ago, Col. Tucker, then in
charge of the Andamans, found it necessary to land five more. During
our visit we several times saw three goats in company and as we dis-
covered among the lava blocks the skeletons of two others it is not im-
possible that we were thus able to account for the whole five. The three
seen together were all adults, perhaps therefore they have either not
begun to breed or their young have been unable to survive. A well-
trodden foot-path across the lava causeway near the landing-place
shows that the goats come daily, at least during the dry season, to drink
at the only spring the island possesses, hot-water charged with over 200
grains per gallon of saline matter.J Each morning during the writer's
* Catal. of Mammalia in the Indian Museum, pt. ii, p. 63.
f Hud a specimen been shot it probably could not have been secured, for a direct
descent from the writer's position to the foot of the tree was impracticable and to
reach the spot where the specimen must have fallen would have entailed : — 1, a return
to the landing-place (two hours work to begin with) ; 2, rowing half a mile to the mouth
of the gulley in which the tree stood ; and i grant ing that t be sea-month of the proper
galley was hit off and, if it was, that a landing could have been effected — neither
event being at all a necessary consequence,) 3, a search for the particular tree in-
volving a climb of over 800. feet through a particularly difficult jungle with much
the same prospeofcof ultimate suooess thai there would be in the proverbial search
for " a needle in a haystack." But this should only wh<i t he appetite of tho true
collector for a visit to tho islands ; it will however show that the geologist or
botanist who visits the place with but a limited time at his disposal, must confine his
attention to hit own subject and can do bat dilettante work in any other direction.
J Memoirs of the Qeol. Survey "/India, vol. xxi, p. 277.
