112 D. Prain — Fauna of Narcondam and Barren Island. [April,
3. Halcyon atktcapillus Gmel. (Small Kingfisher.) Stray Fea-
thers ii, 168; also p. 104.
This, Mr. Hume says, I. c. p. 104, is most probably the Kingfisher
he observed on Barren Island. Oddly enough the writer saw no King-
Bsher on Barren Island, but several individuals, perhaps of this species,
were very actively employed on the coast at the north-east corner of
Narcondam.
DlSTBlB. India, Burma, Andamans, Nicobars.
4. Rhyticeros N.\i:t"'o\i>AMi Hume. (The Narcondam Hornbill).
Stray Feathers i, 411 ; ii, 176.
This species, which is confined to Narcondam, is exceedingly plenti-
ful there. It is very far from shy, for on one occasion when the writer
and his attendants were busy cutting down a tree, three or four of
these birds, apparently attracted by the noise, came aud settled above us,
continuing to scream and chatter overhead, while the tree vibrated
under our strokes, for some time before making up their minds to fly
away.
Distrib. Endemic.
5. Palaeornis affinis Tytler. (Red-cheeked Andaman Paroquet.)
Stray Feathers ii, 184.
Common on both islands.
Distrib. Andaman group, including Coco Islands and Preparis.
6. Eudynamys malayana Cab. (Andaman Koel). Stray Feathers
ii, p. 192.
The writer saw this Koel several times during his stay on Narcon-
dam ; Mr. Hume did not happen to have an opportunity of noting the
species.
Distrib. India, Burma, Andamans, Nicobars, Malaya.
7. Araciineciitiira andamanica Hume. (Andaman Sun-Bird).
Stray Feat Iters ii, 198.
Observed by Mr. Hume on both islands, not Been by the writer.
Distrib. Andaman group, including Coco Islands and Preparis.
8. Otocompsa emeria Shaw. (Red- Whiskered Bulbul.) Stray
Feathers ii, 225.
Observed by Mr. Hume on Barren island, not seen by the writer.
Distrib. India, Burma, Andamans, Nicobars (introduced).
9. Corvus Devaillanth Lesson. (The Bow-billed Corby). Stray
Feathers ii, 243.
The writer one day noticed 'Civo of these large Andaman Crows
