1802.] D. Prain — Famia o/Narcondam and Barren Island. 113
on Barron Island. There were none there apparently when Mr. Hume
visited the island.
Distrib. Himalaya; India; Burma, Andamans; Malaya.
10. Carpophaga aenea Linn. (Imperial Pigeon.) Stray Feathers,
ii, 260.
Noticed once on Narcondam.
Distrib. Himalaya ; India ; Indo-China, Andamans ; Malaya.
11. Carpophaga bicolor Scop. (Pied Fruit-Pigeon.) Stray Fea-
thers ii, 260.
Exceedingly plentiful on both islands ; a visitant from the south-
wai'd.
Distrib. Malaya; Nicobars ; Andamans (a visitant).
12. Caloenas nicobarica Linn. (The Nicobars Fruit-Pigeon.)
Noticed several times on Nai'condam, and once (three individuals
together) on Barren Island, on the inner aspect of the outer crater to
the south of the landing-place ; a visitant from the Nicobars.
Distrib. Nicobars ; Malaya : Andamans (a visitant).
13. Cirrepidesmus mongolicus Pallas. (Mongolian Shore-Plo-
ver.) Stray Feathers ii, 289.
Rather common on both islands.
Distrib. Eastern Asia.
1-1. Trixgoides HYPOLEUCr/s Linn. (Sand-Piper.) Stray Feathers
ii, 299.
Very common on both islands.
Distrib. Cosmopolitan.
15. Gallinula phoenicura Penn. (Water-Hen.)
Barren Island. This was not met with by Mr. Hume and it is not
a bird that one would expect to see in these islands. Yet each time we
landed on Barren Island and each time we returned to the beach from
the interior we observed in the vicinity of the small hot-spring at the
landing-place what appeared to us to be the same individual of this
species. On being disturbed it walked leisurely away and disappeared
among the crevices of the adjacent black lava-flow. Mr. Hume notes
his having met with the species in suitable localities everywhere from
the Great Coco to Acheen ; we must therefore suppose that the indivi-
dual we saw had by some accident reached the island from one of the
neighbouring members of the group and was making the best of the
situation.
Distrib. India ; Indo-China, Andamans ; Nicobars, Malaya.
