1892.] D. Pram — Fauna of Narcondam and Barren Island. 115
eggs of the turtle form one of the staple foods of the Hydrosaurns, to
the omnivorus propensities of which the writer has already had occasion
to allnde.t In Barren Island none of these lizards were seen but it is
not at all improbable that they are present, for there are two small bays
at the south-west corner where there are sandy beaches with a Pandanus
fence and some Coco-nut trees behind. Owing to the strong swell and
heavy surf tho writer was unable to land at either of these places, nor
did lie succeed in crossing the outer cone at a point whence he could reach
them from the interior. It is, however, not at all unlikely that turtles
visit these sandy patches and, if so, there is no doubt that, if Hydro-
saurus exists on the island, he will be in evidence there.
Crustaceans : — Besides hermit-crabs, which are very plentiful, there
are, at least on Barren Island, land-crabs.* And, as might be sur-
mised, Grapsus is plentiful on the rocks along the coast and is a source
of interest to the Blue Reef-Heron and some of the other sea-fowl.
Other Air-Breathing Creatures : — The writer did not see a single
beetle on Barren Island, but perhaps the season of his visit (March —
April) had something to do with their absence. One or two were met
with on Narcondam — the specimens obtained including, amongst others,
a Golden-Beetle.
Spiders are common on both islands, particularly on Narcondam,
where also a scorpion is to be found. It was, however, only seen once,
when digging up an Amurphophallus tuber, and was not preserved. J
Ants are very common, the two chief kinds being the common red
mango-ant, or a species very like it, both physically and physiologically;
and a very small species that makes long powdery tunnels along the
outside of, and sometimes also makes its home inside, the stems and
branches of various shrubs, e. g., it is common to find it inside living
branches of a species of Leea and of two species of Ficus (F. brevicusjpis
and F. hispida var. daemonum.
Among insects, besides a sand-fly and a mosquito, whose pres-
ence goes without saying, there is a very striking form, only
noticed however in Barren Island, in the shape of a small hornet which
builds sometimes a discoid nest composed of single cells, mouth down-
wards, in juxtaposition, and sometimes a long narrow nest of single
* Joum. As. Soc. Beng. vol. Ix, pt. 2, p. 402, [footnote].
f Land-crabs were not observed either on Narcondam or on Barren Island, but
Mr. Wood Mason has very kindly shown the writer specimens of a land-crab that
are preserved in the Indian Museum ; those were obtained in Barren Island by Mr.
Oldham.
X The writer's native collector promptly treated it as vermin, and ere a protest
could be uttered had crushed it between two stones.
