116 D. Prain — Fauna of Narcondam and Barren Island. [April,
cells in one or two rows on the trader-surface of slender twigs.* Its
sting is very sharp at the time ; fortunately the irritation passes off al-
most completely in half-an-hour or so ; unfortunately the nests are very
numerous on all the drier slopes where there is any jungle.
Butterflies are not numerous in either island. On Narcondam one
species (Cynthia erota) is plentiful, and another (IlupJiina lichinosa) is
common ; the other species are, at least at the season of the writer's visit,
but poorly represented. On Barren Island all the species seen are, at
that season, particularly scarce. The writer collected on Narcondam a
few of most of the kinds seen, and during his visit to Barren Island he
had the pleasure of the company of Mr. R. Wimberley, of the Port Blair
Commission, whose ardour as a lepidopterist is well-known to his Indian
brethren. As Mr. Wimberley came on purpose to collect the butterflies
of Barren Island the writer paid but little attention to them ; he had
hoped that Mr. Wimberley might prepare a note, which could not fail
to be highly interesting, on the species he had collected. Mi*. Wimberley
has not seen his way to do this; he has, however, most obligingly
supplied the writer with a list of the species obtained by him ; this
list is given below verbatim. As regards the specimens collected on
Narcondam the writer has had the privilege of the kind assistance of
Mr. deNicevillc, who has most obligingly examined the small collec-
tion and named the species. f
List of Butterflies seen on Barren Island.
(Prepared by Mr. E. Wimberley, Port Blair.)
1. Hypolimnas bolina Linn. 3 two.
2. Nacaduba co3lestis DeNicev. Several.
3. Castalius (species, could not tell).
* To the writer's perhaps prejudiced imagination it appeared that it preferred
making its nost on Capparis sepiaria to building elsewhere. The arrangement is
excellent ; an outlying sprawling branch hooks itsolf unobserved to one's log or one's
arm ; tho next movement sets the whole bnah a-shaking and boforo ono is aware
his head and face form tho point d'appui for a whole army of angry wasplets. Tho
nests, from their shape and situation, aro particularly difficult to see, and after
forming the firmest resolve to bo more wary next time, ono only knows that ho has
blundered into another nest when it is necessary to pick tho creatures off his faco
and From out his hair. So far from trying to obtain specimens our principal object
was to keep out of tho creature's way.
f While thanking Mr. do Nicevillo for his kindness in naming this small collec-
tion, the writer would tako this opportunity of mentioning thai Mr. de Nioeville has
also kindly pointed out that the butterfly mentioned in Jour. As. Boc. Bang, lis,
pt. 2, p. 250, as fcoding on Calotropis gig write /, and as a recent introduction into the
Aii'lamans is not Danais genutia, as there stated, bul Van \\ chrysippus.
