120 D. Piain — Fauna of Narcondam ami Barren Island. [Ai'KlL,
cent, of the list, are probably deliberate visitants. And though the Sea-
Eagle has become a permanent resident and breeds on the spot, perhaps
most of the others are still seasonal visitants and nothing more. This is
certainly the case with the Fruit-Pigeons, two of which, Carpophaga
bicolor and Galoenas nicobarica come annually from the Nicobars or from
Malaya; the third, Carpophaga cenea, may come from Malaya or from
Indo-China. Equally is this the case with Pond-Heron, which is a visit-
ant from India, and it may be the case with the Sand-Plover and the
Sand-Piper which are, in all probability, visitants from the north, and
with the Snowy-Tern which is probably a visitant from the south.
Perhaps the Blue Reef- Heron, though probably at first a deliberate
immigrant, is now, like the Sea-Eagle, a permanent resident.
The Rock-Swiftlet and the Small King-fisher may either have come
deliberately or may have been driven by stress of weather to the islands.
The former is now certainly, the latter is probably, a permanent resi-
dent. The Swiftlet, if driven here involuntarily, must have been an
immigrant under the influence of the south-west monsoon, the King-
fisher may have reached the island under the influence of either the
south-west or the north-east monsoon.
The Water-Hen may also have been driven here involuntarily,
but is quite as likely to be a deliberate, though an inadvertent, immi-
grant. In either case it has probably come from the Andamans, whence
also the large Corby has certainly come ; the latter has probably, how-
ever, not come deliberately but has been driven by stress of weather.
The Paroquet and the Sunbird, the Koel and the Bulbul are pro-
bably all involuntary immigrants, the two former under the influence
of the south-west, the two latter under the influence of either monsoon.
The most interesting bird of the list is the Narcondam Hornbill,
not merely because it is endemic in that island, — pointing to its arrival
there being an event of very considerable antiquity since it has had time
to develope peculiarities that appear to entitle it to specific rank, and
indicating moreover that the event is one which 1ms recurred very in-
frequently, if at all — but because, there being no Hornbills in the
Andaman group proper, whence birds driven by the south-west mon-
soon must have been derived, we are led to conclude that it owes its
presence in the island to the influence of the usually weaker north-east
monsoon.
The probabilities of the case are more compactly indicated in the
subjoined table.
