122 H. B. Hyde— Calcutta (Chatanati) Factory. [April,
occupation of the village of Chatauati on the 21th of August, 1690.
This is the true foundation day of the City of Calcutta. There exists
at tlic [ndia Office a series of eleven volumes, extending to 1706 the fir-st
of which is entitled " Diary and Consultation Boole for affairs of the Bt.
Hon lie English, East India Company, kept by the lit. Worshipful the
Agent and Council beginning 16th July, 1690." From this the extracts
following are taken. They disclose the state of things with which the
Agent and Council had to contend during their first week of settlement.
It will be remembered that after a couple of months occupation of
the village in the cold weather of 1686 and 1687, during which the
Nawab's Commissioners gave him promises of recognition and support
which their master refused to ratify, Charnock attacked the Thana forts,
Higili and Balasore. About November of 1687, after some 9 months
of this disasterous warfare, Charnock, a second time, attempted a settle-
ment at Chatanati. On this occasion he remained nearly a year and
erected some factory buildings. The Company's prospects in Bengal
are not wholly unpromising when in September Captain William Heath,
the Company's Naval Commander-in-Chief arrived and insisted in car-
rying off in his ship the whole of the officials of the factory. After a
stay at Madras Charnock and the Bengal Council returned on the
Princess and finally established the Chatanati factory.
The Diary above-mentioned records : — " 1690, August 23rd. On
board the Maddapollam." [The party had quitted the Princess, perhaps
at Balasore, and had embarked on a Ketch to ascend the Hngly River.]
" Ordered Mr. William Skinner Pylott to leave the Maddras Friggat
and go on board the Maddapollam to help her go to Chutanuttee."
They ascended the River safely as Ear as Sankral, a village on the
west bank of the river just below the present Botanic Gardens, and
within sight of the Thana Fort which stood on the site, it is believed,
of Dr. King's house and was then held by the Nawab's Government.
The Diary continues : —
"August, 24-th. This day at Sankraul ordered Captain Brooke to
come up with his vessel to Chutanuttee when- we arrived about noon ;
but found the place in a deplorable condition, nothing being left for our
present accommodation and the rain falling day and night. We arc
forced to betake ourselves to bouts, which considering the season of the
year, is very unhealthy. Mellick Burcoordar and the count ry people at
our leaving this place burning and carrying away wha< they could. On
our arrival here the Governor of Tanna sent his servanl with a com-
pliment."
This Mullich had formerly been Governor of Eugly and in January
Llth, 168f had acted as one of the Nawab Shasteh Khan's three Mun-
