1892.] H. B. Hyde— Calcutta (Chatanati) Factory. 123
Bubdars or Commissioners to treat with Charnock for the establishment
of the new factory. The articles were concluded but the Nawab did
not confirm them and it was believed the whole negociation were merely
a ruse to secure to the Nawab time for his military preparations
against the English. In November, 1687, he was again employed during
the second settlement for a similar purpose, this time as sole Commis-
sioner, and, though Captain Heath in his headstrong manner refused
to listen to him, professing to believe that the recent death of Mullick's
brother in war with the English had incurably prejudiced him against
the Company's interests, he was apparently really desirous of adjusting
peace. Heath on the 8th of November embarked Charnock and all his
Council and subordinates on board his vessels and so abandoned the
Chatanati factory buildings to be pillaged by the natives.
Mr. Henry Stanley and Mr. Mackrith had been sent on as Char-
nock's representatives to occupy Hugly. They arrived there about a
fortnight before the latter reached Chatanati. Charnock anticipating
that the commonest conveniences of life would be unobtainable on his
arrival, wrote to Stanley to ask for supplies to which request Sir
Henry Yule preserves a portion of a reply [H. D. ii, 283].
" The necessaries your w T orship, &c, gave us a note of are such of
them as are ready to be had, herewith sent, viz.
1 pr. of Gurras, 10 as. per pees [thought to be a sort of coarse
cotton cloth, gdrha].
3 large Dishes of our own stores from Madrass.
2 dozen of Trencher plates belonging to Mr. Croke, such as he
sold for 2| rupees per corge [i. e., per score.]
The rest shall follow"
On Thursday, the 28th of August, the first consultation of the Ben-
gal Council was held at the newly re-established factory, it is worth
quoting in full from the Chatanati Diary : —
"At a consultation — Present.
The Rt. Worshipful Agent Charnock.
Mr. Francis Ellis.
Mr. Jere[miah] Peachie.
Resolved that a letter be sent to Mr. Stanley, &c, to come from
Hugly and bring with them what Englishmen are there that the warr
with the French may be proclaimed and also that Commissions be gi\ en
to all command [ers] of ships in order to the prosecution of the same.
In consideration that all the former buildings here are destroyed,
it is resolved that such plans be built as necessity requires and as cheap
as possible, viz.
1. A warehouse.
