124 H. B. Hyde — Calcutta (Chatanati) Factory. [April.
2. A dining room.
3. The Secretary's Office to be repaired.
4. A room to sort cloth in.
5. A cook-room with its conveniences.
6. An apartment for the Company's servants.
7. The Agent's and Mr. Peachic's house to be repaired which were
part standing and a house to be built for Mr. Ellis, the former being
totally demolished.
8. The Guard House.
These to be done with mudd walls and thatched till we can get
ground whereon to build a factory.
Resolved that 2000 maunds of wheat and 200 maunds horse grain
be bought at Manloa [Mandoa ?] that being the cheapest place and
here to be provided 6000 maunds rice, 200 maunds butter and 200
maunds of oyle (and 200 maunds oyle) [sic] to be sent to Fort George.
Job Cearxock.
Francis Ellis.
Jeremiah Peachie.
J. Hill, Secretary.
A few days later under date of August Z\st, the Agent and Council
record the following memorandum —
" Received advices from Mr. Meverell at Ballasore that Captain Had-
dock departed this life the 23rd instant as also that a Portuguese vessel
was aiTived bringing news of the French Fleets coming to the bay and
that the Dutch Commissary is coming with 4 shipps from Negapatam.
Governor Pitt with 5 ships from Maddrass also Captain Heath from
said place and that 3 Danes Shipps from Trincumbar are ready to
joyne with them.
" September 5th. All the English according to order being arrived
from Hughly, war was proclaimed against the French."
These hostilities against the French were the result of a declara-
tion of war against that nation by King AVilliam dated 7th May, 1689,
which by His Majesty's accession on the following 9th September, to the
Treaty called " The grand alliance " implied a general attack on French
trading interests throughout the world. The Dutch and Danish vessels
mentioned in the foregoing memorandum were coming to support the
British in their attack upon the French [ndiamen.
So began a desultory naval warfare which lasted in Indian waters
for several years.
The Chatanati Diary thus exhibits to us Charnock and his Council
of 2, Ins few factors and his 30 soldiers passing the lirsl week of wh;ii
proved to be their final and successful attempl to found the factory
