I.V2 Debipershad — An old inscription found at Burtrd. [Mat,
The following papers wore read : —
1. Rajah Kdns, — By H. Beveridge, V^q., C. S.
The paper will be published in the Journal, Part I.
2. An account of an old inscription found at Burtrd in the district
of Miiru-dr, — By MuNSHl Debipershad of Jodhpore. Communicated by
the Philological Secretary.
(Abstract).
Burtrd is a village situated nearly 20 miles east of Jhalor in Mar-
war. Here, under a tree, a stone was found about 1 foot 6 inches square,
bearing an inscription in the Nagari character. The villagers, believing
that the stone marked the position of some hidden treasure, for a long
time preserved it with great care, till they learnt the purport of the
writing. From this it appeal's that the stone belonged to a well which
was built by Rupadevi, a daughter of Chacha, the Raja of Jhalor, and
was consecrated by her, in the reign of her brother Samyanta Sinha,
on Monday, the 7th Jyaishtha, Samvat 1340. It also appears from the
inscription that Rupadevi was married to Tejas Sihha. and had a son
called Kshetra Sihha.
The stone is evidently a monument of the Chauhan Rajas of Jhalor,
who belonged to the Sonagira clan. It gives the following names : —
(1). Samara Sihha.
(2). Udaya Sinha.
(3). His son Chacha.
(4). His son Samyanta Sihha.
The founder of this dynasty, Kctu. gained possession of the fori of
Jhalor in Samvat 1218. The name of the hill on which the fort was
built was Sonagiri, whence the family of Kctu were called Sonagiras.
The son of Kctu was Samara- Sinha, From whom CTdaya Sinha was
descended. According to Firishta, Shams-ud-Din Altamsh attacked
Udaya Sinha in Samvat 1268 for not paying tribute, and reduced him
to obedience.
Chacha, the son of Udaya Sinha, in Samval 1319 buill a temple to
i he goddess Chamunda, which was situated in a pleasant \ alley in Jaswant-
pura, a district of Marwar. Samyanta was Chacha's son. The inscrip
t ion belongs to his reign.
Raja Kanardeo, the son of Samyanta Sinha. Foughl bravely for
many years with Ala-ud-din Khilji. who attacked him in the fort bf
Jhalor, Imt in Samval L368 the Tort was taken, and Kanardeo was
killed with his son Viramdeo. iMahleo. the brother of Kanardeo, who
escaped, submitted bo Ada-ud-din, and was made Kill t< Kir of Chittor, as
we learn from the Ain-i Akbari
