AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 81
INDIA.
NATIVE WOODS.
The most notable native woods for timber are the teak (Tectona
grandis) and the sal (Shorea robusta). The teak is indigenous to both
peninsulas of India. In certain localities the supply may be considered
inexhaustible.
Teak. Teak reaches a girth of 10 to 15 feet, and has a clear trunk of
70 or 80 feet to the first limb. In British Burmah teak exceeds in value
all other trees combined. The sapwood of teak is white and small.
The heart wood, when cut green, has a pleasant and strong aromatic
fragrance and a beautiful dark golden color, which on seasoning soon
darkens into brown, mottled with darker streaks. The timber retains
its fragrance to a great age, the characteristic odor being apparent
whenever a fresh cut is made. Teak is a wonderfully hard wood,
exceedingly durable and strong, and, once seasoned, does not split,
crack, warp, shrink, or alter in shape. It owes its chief value to its
great durability, which is ascribed, probably with justice, to the cir-
cumstance that it contains a large quantity of fluid resinous matter^
which fills up the pores and resists the action of water. At the Karli
caves, near Poona, there is teakwood work 2,000 years old which seems
perfectly good at the present day. Teak lumber from different locali-
ties varies greatly in appearance, weight, and strength. Teak weighs
about 40 pounds per cubic foot. It is used in India for construction,
bridgemaking, sleepers, and for manufacturing furniture. It is exported
to Europe chiefly for building railway carriages, for shipbuilding, for
making decks and lower masts, and for the backing of armor plates on
ironclads. It is peculiarly useful for the latter purpose owing to the
resinous matter which it contains, acting as a preventive against rust,
the wood neither affecting the iron nor being affected by it. It is far
superior to oak in this respect. The trade in teak is very large and
important, and, notwithstanding the competition of other materials,
shows no signs of diminution.
Sal. The sal tree (Shorea robusta) is one of the most valuable tim-
ber trees in India. The sapwood is distinct, is small in amount, and
not durable. The heartwood is brown in color, finely streaked with
dark lines, coarse grained, hard, strong, and tough, with a remarkably
cross-grained and fibrous structure. The fibers of successive concen-
tric circles do not run parallel but at oblique angles to each other, so
that when the wood is dressed the fibers appear interlaced. It does
not season well, but splits and warps in drying, and even when thor-
oughly seasoned absorbs moisture with avidity in wet weather, increas-
ing one-twenty-fourth in bulk and correspondingly in weight. During
the process of seasoning it dries with great rapidity on the surface,
with snperfioial flaws from unequal shrinkage. Sal, when thoroughly
