82 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
seasoned, stands almost without a rival as a timber for the qualities
of strength, elasticity, and durability, which qualities it retains, with-
out being sensibly affected, for an immense length of time. The aver-
age weight of the seasoned sal is about 55 pounds to the cubic foot.
This timber is the one most constantly used in Northern India. It is
in quest for beams, planking, railings for bridges, doors and window
posts for houses, for gun carriages, for the bodies of carts, and, above
all, for sleepers for railways. In Assam it is used for boat building.
Owing to the fact that when unseasoned it is not floatable, difficulty
is experienced in getting the lumber out in the log. This is overcome,
however, by floating the logs either with the assistance of floats of
light wood or with bamboos.
Artocarpus. The Artocarpus chaplasha grows in Burmah and East-
ern Bengal. The wood is brownish-yellow, moderately hard, even-
grained, tough, durable, and seasons well. It seems to get harder and
heavier as it gets older. It is used for various purposes, and is very
superior for use under water.
Bamboo. The bamboo, while in reality a grass, forms the most
important portion of the minor forest produce of all forest divisions
and one that increases in value every year. It would occupy a volume
to enumerate by name all the uses to which the native bamboo stems
are put. To the inhabitants of the regions where the bamboo luxuri-
ates it affords all the materials required, not only for the erection but
the furnishing of the ordinary house. Certain species are more ser-
viceable for posts, others are more adapted for basket work, but with
one or two species every requirement can be met. It is cut up and
split into bands of every size and thickness, so as to allow of its being
manufactured into mats of any degree of quality, from the finest to
the coarse mats so extensively used for walls in housebuilding. Hol-
low bamboos are cut at the nodes lengthwise, and then opened out and
flattened into slabs, which may be used for the seats of chairs, tops of
tables, beds and other articles of furniture. The large Karen houses,
each of which constitutes a village in itself, being large enough to
contain 200 or 300 persons, are constructed entirely of bamboo. The
greater part of the people of eastern India and the Malay peninsula
live in bamboo houses. Bridges are built of bamboo in all parts of
India. If in good condition they may be ridden over with perfect
safety. The larger hollow species are used for aqueducts, water pails,
pots, cups, and other vessels. A single joint of a green bamboo is
often used for boiling the family dinner of rice. All sorts of agricul-
tural instruments are also made of bamboo and the appliances for spin-
ning cotton and wool, and also for reeling silk, are often constructed
entirely of this material. The Assamese make fishhooks of bamboo.
Teak and sal are the most important sources of lumber, while bamboo
is used more than all kinds of timber combined, for many of the uses
to which lumber would be applied in other countries. Teak is pre-
ferred in all cases where permanency is required.
