AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 89
TIENTSIN.
NATIVE WOODS.
There is really very little timber grown in the vicinity of Tientsin, or
in the Provinces of Chihli, Shantung or Shansi. A considerable
amount of elm, however, used here by the natives, for small repairs to
houses, junks, etc., comes from the country in the neighborhood of
Peking.
So far as I can discover there are no uncommon varieties of wood in
the large section of China north of the Yellow River or Hwang-ho.
For centuries there has been no recorded policy in China for the pro-
tection of forests. The result is that the country is almost barren of
timber, few trees escaping the woodman's axe sufficiently long to reach
maturity.
Sometime ago the viceroy of the Province of Chihli, Li Hung Chang,
who resides at Tientsin, realizing the situation, which was forced upon
his notice by undertakings under his control requiring large and heavy
timber, offered a bonus to encourage villagers in the cultivation of
trees, but the few attempts that were made proved futile.
China is, therefore, wholly dependent upon other countries for lum-
ber required in enterprises of any magnitude a fact worthy of atten-
tion.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
For wharves, jetties, and many works on the Imperial Railway of
Northern China, requiring lumber of considerable length and thick-
ness, Oregon pine has scarcely a competitor. Its only rival is the
cheaper and commoner pine from Korea, used where medium sized tim-
ber is needed. In railway construction in Northern China, to the dis-
cussion of which I shall devote a special paragraph, Oregon pine is
used for all temporary bridge structures, for roofing, and for building
freight cars. Teak is the wood employed at present in constructing
passenger cars. Two cargoes of Oregon lumber, by sailing vessels, were
bought by the Imperial Chinese Railway Company last year, and I
am informed that another cargo is soon to arrive.
About eleven years ago Oregon pine was for the first time imported
direct from Victoria, British Columbia, and from Port Town send, but
previous to that time a considerable supply of this wood reached Tien-
tsin, via Shanghai and Hongkong. Even now it is so imported at inter-
vals.
So far, then, as soft wood is concerned, we may safely assume that
Oregon pine is safe from rivalry.
There is a large market here for hard wood, which market is
untouched except from. Vladivostock, Russia ; Sandakan, Borneo;
