90 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
Laquimanoc, Philippine Islands. The hard wood from Eussia is gen-
erally small, ranging in size from 12 by 12 up to 16 by 16 inches by 25
to 30 feet in length, and is known as hakmatak. But this hard wood
is not a dangerous competitor to the hard woods from Borneo and the
Philippine Islands, the Russian Government frequently refusing to
allow it to be exported, as it is in demand for the Siberian Railway.
Of Borneo woods the best is billian, and for strength and durability
this wood can scarcely be surpassed. It bears exposure well, and seems
almost indestructible. When newly cut, billian resembles oak, but
with age and exposure it becomes as black as ebony. Samples of this
wood have been shown me weighing 70 pounds per cubic foot. Other
Borneo woods imported are russock, kapore, and serayah. The last-
mentioned wood has a strong resemblance to soft mahogany, and is
used for all purposes for which pine is suitable, and for furniture.
Although serayah is soft, and therefore easily worked, it is very strong,
tough, and heavy, weighing, on an average, 43 pounds per cubic foot.
Borneo woods average in size 12 by 12 to 14 by 14 inches by 30 feet in
length. If the question of expense is laid aside, one can with difficulty
obtain Borneo woods 20 by 20 inches and 30 feet in length.
I am satisfied that, taking everything into consideration, the hard
woods preferred in northern China come from the Philippine Islands.
Of these, it has been estimated there are 30 varieties that have been
brought from time to time to Tientsin. The best-known Philippine
wood is the teak-like molave, which is grown from 11 to 22 feet in
length and 12 to 24 inches square. Special lengths of this wood from
30 to 35 feet can be obtained to a limited extent at considerable extra
cost. Molave is an excellent wood for resisting the action of the cli-
mate, which at times is very dry and at others very wet. It is also
especially valuable for work on the surface or underground, as it is
impervious to the action of the lime with which the soil around Tien-
tsin is impregnated. This wood, as well as another variety known as
bausalaque, is in general use for all purposes where an extra strong
and durable wood is required.
The Chinese use a considerable quantity of hard wood yearly for gen-
eral purposes and for repairing temples around Peking and in building
and maintaining in order the imperial mausoleums. Work on the
temples and tombs requires, not infrequently, wood 20 to 30 inches
square by 40 to 60 feet in length, and Tientsin merchants, whenever
they are able to supply such wood free from knots, cracks, and other
defects, religiously observe the privilege of naming their own price.
Large quantities of small, soft-wood planks are frequently imported
from Japan. These planks are very cheap. A Japanese soft-wood
plank measures approximately 7 feet in length by 12 to 14 inches in
width by 1 inch in depth, and is sold for 12 to 13 tael cents, or, at pres-
ent low exchange, 8J to 9J American cents.
