AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 93
Sailers that draw about twelve feet when the deck load is taken off,
n ml that can carry as many logs as possible, without a heavy propor-
tion of "broken cargo," or planks and laths (which latter always sell
badly and reduce the profits on the venture), and that are about 400 tons
measurement, are considered by experienced Tientsin merchants to
be handiest and best. A vessel of the above description with a 6-foot
deck load should bring 450,000 superficial feet to the bar, and 300,000
up to Tientsin itself, the vessel being lightened of 150,000 feet to
enable it to get over the bar.
There are no difficulties in the way of financing shipments, as the
prominent banks of China are represented at this port.
The following foreign houses interested in American trade are estab-
lished here: Carlowitz & Co., Collins & Co., Cordes& Co., William Forbes
& Co., Hatch & Co., Jardine, Matheson & Co., Mackenzie & Co., E.
Meyer & Co., Philippot & Co.," and Wilson & Co. The firm most exten.
sively interested in lumber here is William Forbes & Co.
GENERAL BUILDING.
Railway construction. During the last year rails were laid to Shan
Hai Kwan, a distance of 180 miles from Tientsin, by way of Taku.
Shan Hai Kwan is on the Gulf of Pechihli at the eastern terminus of
the Great Wall, and the road is apt to stop here for the present as funds
are in great demand at Peking for the festivities soon to occur, on the
occasion of the Empress Dowager's sixtieth birthday. The first 80 odd
miles of this road to Shan Hai Kwan are under the control of the Chin a
Bail way Company and lead up to the Kaiping coal mines. These mines
are the chief reason for this road, from the mines to Taku. The remain-
ing 100 or less miles belong to what is known as the Imperial China
Kailway, of which Li Hung Chang is the director-general.
It is intended in time to push the Imperial Kailway beyond the Great
Wall in a northerly direction through Manchuria to Moukden and Kirin,
in the neighborhood of the Eussian frontier, a distance of about 450
miles from Shan Hai Kwan. This contemplated extension will require
many temporary wooden bridges.
It is the imperial policy to replace all temporary bridges and works
by steel structures and solid masonry.
The progress of railway extension in this consular district will be
noted from time to time in my general reports to the Department. As
the only railway in this vast Empire, its development will undoubtedly
be carefully watched by those interested in railroad construction.
The Kaiping coal mines above mentioned are the only considerable
mines in China worked by foreign methods and machinery.
SHERIDAN P. BEAD,
Consul.
TIENTSIN, February 27, 1894.
