AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
95
States. The climate nearly resembles that of Charleston, S. C. Con-
tinuous hot weather begins about June and lasts until the middle oi
September.
GENERAL BUILDING.
With the exception of native junks, the only shipbuilding in this dis-
trict, to any extent, is done by the Mitsu Bishi Company. There is a
line of railroad running from Moji to Kumamoto, a distance of about
120 miles. There has been but little increase in railway mileage for the
last six years.
The Mitsu Bishi Company, who have their engine and shipbuilding
works at Akenoura, opposite Nagasaki, are the largest and, I believe, the
only importers of Oregon lumber, as yet, in this district. They import
quantities to the value of about 30,000 yen yearly, in lengths of 30 to
40 feet by about 3 to 6 inches ; this is specially prepared and ordered
six months in advance. The price for Oregon pine would be about $39,
gold, per 1,000 superficial feet in Oregon ; delivered here, about $50,
gold.
The Mitsu Bishi Company have built during the past year 3 steamers,
registered tonnage, 500 each, with triple expansion engines; speed, 10
to 11 knots; 1 vessel of 1,500 tonnage, triple expansion, 11 knots; and
one of 2,000 tons, triple expansion, 11 knots. All of these are of the
highest class, registered at Lloyd's 100 Al.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
Large quantities of lumber have been exported to China from Kiu-
shiu, but the amount is steadily decreasing. As far as the Island of
Kiushiu is concerned, the rapid destruction of the native forests is ren-
dering wood more and more scarce, with a corresponding steady
advance in price from year to year ; it is therefore only a question of
time when lumber, especially seasoned pine from the Northern Pacific
coast, will find a large and growing market in Southern Japan.
W. H. ABERCROMBE,
Consul.
NAGASAKI, February o, 1894.
OSAKA AND HIOGO.
NATIVE WOODS.
The principal native woods in this consular district are pine, cypress,
beech, chestnut, oak, and the fir, of which there are many varieties.
In the production of lumber and timber for building, these woods sup-
ply almost the entire needs of the country.
There is one variety of the cypress family (the hinoki) which is
