96 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
especially valuable and highly prized. The wood of the hinoki is gen-
erally very white, sometimes slightly pink, very fine grained, tough,
with little resin, and free from knots. The tree is found chiefly on the
mountain sides, and flourishes in a soil composed of granite or volcanic
rock. It has long been regarded as sacred, and is planted in many
places along the roadside, and forms beautiful avenues leading to tem-
ples. The trunks are straight, having a circumference of from 12 to 13
feet and a height of from 100 to 120 feet. The wood is used in the con-
struction of temples, for the ornamental decoration of the most expen-
sive houses, and is preferred for lacquer ware.
There is another wood called kiaki, which by some is said to belong
to the family of the beech, by others to that of the oak, but the grain
is not so fine as that of the beech and the specific gravity is less than
that of the oak. The tree resembles the beech in the color of its bark
and general appearance, and resembles the oak in the grain of the
wood. The kiaki is regarded as furnishing the best building timber
in Japan, but, being expensive, is used mostly for joiner work.
There are three varieties of the fir, which furnish the usual building
wood for houses, the sugi, inomi, and matsu; the latter, being the
strongest, is also used in bridge building. Extensive forests of these
woods are cultivated by private individuals, and as the trees grow
rapidly, the wood is much cheaper and more abundant.
It is estimated in official reports that of the entire acreage of Japan
23 per cent is covered by mountain forests, owned entirely by the Gov-
ernment, and 18 per cent by cultivated forests, the property of private
owners.
PRICES AND IMPORTS.
The price of the above-named lumber is as follows per square foot:
Kia-ki, 54 sen; hinoki, 54; momi, 20; matsu, 25; and sugi, 21.
At the present rate of exchange 100 sen (one yen) equal 53J cents
United States gold.
Imports of lumber in 1893.
Imported from Yen.
Great Britain 481.46
United S tates 2, 071. 26
Canada 5,186.84
Germany 351.40
India... 482.54
The imports of foreign lumber at Osaka amounted to a little less for
the same period. Foreign lumber is used at both ports in relaying the
decks of foreign constructed vessels and in refurnishing their masts and
spars. A small amount of Indian teak and other high-priced woods
are imported for the manufacture of furniture.
