AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 99
SIAM.
NATIVE WOODS.
The principal woods found in Siam are teak, rosewood, ebony, taback,
and bamboo.
Teak is too well known to require a description. It is used exten-
sively in Asia and Europe in shipbuilding, and considerable has been
shipped from this port to San Francisco in 1893.
The rosewood and ebony are about like woods of this character found
in other parts of the world. The former is of the finest variety, how-
ever, while the latter is somewhat inferior in color and size to a first-
class grade of this wood.
Taback, in grain and color, is somewhat like the maple found in the
United States. It is, however, brittle and soft and is not considered
durable. There are other woods, but of minor importance.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
Teak and a common variety of lumber, imported from Singapore,
somewhat like pine, but very much inferior, are about the only varieties
of lumber used in Siam.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
It is impossible to give figures in answer to this question since the
customs returns do not show it. Lumber is received under the head
of miscellaneous goods and therefore may be classed along with any-
thing and everything. The quantity is not large however, probably
less than $15,000 worth annually.
DUTY AND PRICES.
The import duty laid upon foreign lumber is 3 per cent ad valorem.
The prices of lumber areas follows: Square teak logs and planks
range from 80 to 90 cents per cubic foot, according to dimensions 5 and
unhewn or rough logs range in price from $8 to $16 per log.
" Singapore planks or lumber" (so called, as it is imported from that
place, to which it is brought from the Malay Peninsula) is used here in
building sheds and cheap shanties ; the principal dimensions are 10 by
6 by J. It is sold by the 100 planks, or pieces, at from $4 to $5.
Eosewood is sold by weight, at from $1 to $2 per picul (133 pounds).
" Ebony," small sized logs not pure black is exported to China
only, where it is used for making chopsticks. It ranges from 50 cents
lo $1 per 133 pounds.
All the above prices, which are wholesale, fluctuate from 30 to 40
per cent, according to supply and demand.
