AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIQN MARKET^. 101
ture. A very few of the modern build ings' 'are havfrig' wotfdeh floors
and ceilings. For this purpose pine is generally used. There is no
reason why native woods should not be grown to an extent to supply
the local demands. The present administration cares nothing for tree
culture or economy of forests. On this account, 99 per cent of all lum-
ber used is imported from foreign countries or from other districts of
Turkey.
The native woods are olive, oak, orange, and fir, which are used
almost entirely for fuel.
Quite a box trade has grown up at Jaffa, boxes being necessary for
the shipping of the oranges grown there. The kinds of lumber wanted
for this, and also for the small demand for building purposes, are pine
and fir.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
The value of the lumber annually imported at the port of Jaffa is
from $60,000 to $100,000. This lumber comes from Austria, Sweden,
and other parts of Turkey. Austria controls the great bulk of the
import trade, sending to Jaffa nearly three-fourths of all the lumber
entered there. From Jaffa it is distributed to such other places as
desire it.
DUTIES AND PRICES.
The amount of duty upon imported lumber is 8 per cent ad valorem.
The price ranges from $8 to $10 per cubic meter. From 6,000 to
10,000 cubic meters are imported annually at Jaffa.
CLIMATE.
The climate of Palestine is generally warm. There is a wet and dry
season. The wet season corresponds to the winter months in our
Northern States. The summers are very dry and hot.
GENERAL BUILDING.
There is some activity in general building, but there is no ship or
railroad building now going on in this district.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
2Sb American wood has as yet found its way into Palestine. This is
probably due to the long transportation necessary 5 but there seems to
be no reason why, with direct communication between American ports
and Jaffa, our dealers should not compete successfully with those of other
countries, and acquire their share of the lumber trade of Palestine.
EDWIN S. WALLACE,
Consul.
JERUSALEM, February ?, 1894.
