AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 105
worth about $200. These sheets or leaves measure as a rule 2.187
yards long by 19.68 to 23.62 inches wide.
Other kinds of native wood can not be subjected to even an approx-
imate value, having no definite measure and having endless shapes and
forms.
CLIMATE.
The great extent of Syria furnishes a variety of temperatures even in
the same season, but it may be said of the eastern coast of the Medi-
terranean that it can boast the most favored semitropical climate of
the East, if not of the world. No frost ever comes to the coast, while
the peaks of Lebanon, in full view, are crowned with snow all the
year. It is possible therefore for residents to obtain any temperature
they may desire. Tropical trees, fruits, and vegetables flourish in the
balmy air and rich soil; and while seaside residents resort to the neigh-
boring mountains in the hot and damp summer months for health and
pleasure, it is safe to affirm that this climate is as equable and healthy
as any similarly situated in the world. A perfectly pure and abundant
water supply from the mountains is the best safeguard for Beirut against
cholera or climatic ills, and this district is comparatively free from infec-
tious and contagious Oriental diseases. The year is divided into the dry
and rainy seasons; the heaviest rains falling in December, January, and
February; the annual rainfall varying from 30 to 45 inches. The ther-
mometer ranges from 85 to 35 F. on the coast and from 80 to 30
F. in the mountains. The Lebanon slopes are temperate and agreeable
in climate all the year round.
GENERAL BUILDING.
The building up of Beirut, in the past two decades, from an old
Oriental town into a great modern city should designate it as the mir-
acle city of the Mediterranean. It may well claim a great future, for
its widening streets and rising halls now mark the site of what must
be one of the principal emporiums of the entire East, when its railroad
system is completed to the fields of the Hauran and possibly to the
Persian Gulf. Its people are alive to the situation, and general build-
ing and public improvements show the result of devotion and enter-
prise on the part of officials and residents. Nearly every house in the
city and in this district is constructed of stone on account of the scar-
city of wood, as already stated, and also because the immense mounds
of sand here are as convenient for mortar as the quarried bowlders of
Lebanon are ready for reunion into solid and shapely structures.
Shipbuilding is not a large industry here, but small sailing and fish-
ing boats are constructed in numbers for harbor and coastwise use.
The harbor itself is being very greatly improved, so that ships can
come into port and land their cargoes and passengers at any season
something that is not possible in every port of the Mediterranean.
