106 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
This magnificent and extensive harbor work is being done by a wealthy
French company, and the same company has the concessions for the
Beirut, Damascus and Hauran Railway, a line which is now being
rapidly pushed to completion and which will be in operation next year.
This railroad, the first in Syria, will not only furnish an easy approach
for tourists to Damascus, one of the oldest cities in the world, and give its
famous bazaars an avenue to the world's commerce, but will also open-
up the Hauran, the richest and most inexhaustible grain country in the
East. This system of internal improvements is under the personal
management of Count Edinond de Perthuis and M. Rene" Emond, who
are backed by abundant capital from Paris.
This new railroad runs through the most picturesque scenes of the
Lebanon Mountains and touches many of the thriving and beautiful
villages which are the health and pleasure resorts of Beirut residents
and even of people of wealth from Alexandria and Cairo.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
The wonderful growth of Beirut attracts many foreign importations.
Syrians welcome any improvements and machinery from the United
States.
If American capitalists would send a few ships direct to this port,
even at the risk of small returns at first, a rich harvest would be
reaped later on. Lumber, at lower prices than the Austrian imports,
offers a readier return than any other American product, because this
land is almost bare of forests; and direct shipments of the superior
timber of the United States should easily compete with European lum-
ber in spite of distance.
Syrian wools, silks, fruits, licorice, and the fine workmanship ol
Damascus could be taken back in return, and there is no reason why
a direct line of merchant steamships to Syria would not pay Americans
as well as Englishmen.
Acquaintance and confidence will stir the Syrian merchants to action,
and if they are once started and are assured that their wools and the
products of their silk looms will find a sure market they will be glad to
cross the seas and exchange products with the United States. They
are particularly anxious for lumber, cheap woods for flooring, ceilings,
and general building purposes.
THOMAS E. GIBSON,
Consul.
BEIRUT, February 15, 1894.
