AUSTRALASIA.
NEW ZEALAND.
NATIVE WOODS.
The principal woods are here mentioned in the order of their useful-
ness and value. It has been ascertained beyond question that certain
native timbers possess greater durability when grown in particular sit-
uations than in others. For example, north of the Auckland isthmus
a native tree, known as hinau, affords a small proportion of heartwcod?
and is therefore considered of little value ; in the province of Welling-
ton the proportion of heartwood in the same tree is large, and the tim-
ber is highly valued for its durability. The Northern rata (Metrosideros
robustd), one of the most useful woods in New Zealand, when grown in
moist places produces timber of an inferior quality to that grown in
ordinary situations, being liable to dry rot; in fact, the fungus is often
found on this timber, grown in moist places, before it is cut down. It
is well known that kahikatea (white pine), grown in dry places, affords
more durable timber than when grown in swamps; although, at the
same time, inferior to much of the swamp timber for bearing transverse
strains. This rule applies pretty generally to nearly all the native
woods grown in swamp lands here.
In view of the importance of having in all cases suitable timber for
public works, it is advisable that it should be cut down under the
direction of some competent person, so that unsuitable timber, whether
defective from having grown in situations not naturally adapted for the
particular kind required, or from not having arrived at maturity, might
be rejected at the outset, thereby insuring against poor material and
guaranteeing the most satisfactory results.
The names of the different trees herewith, falling as far as the order
could be maintained, are given as follows : English names first, native
names second, and botanical names third. In most cases the English
and native names are the same.
Kauri (Dammara Australis). The kauri is certainly the finest tree
in New Zealand, and produces by far the most valuable timber. It is,
however, restricted to the northern part of the north island, and does
not occur in any quantity south of latitude 38, although solitary trees
are met with a little further south. It attains a height of 120 to 160
107
