108 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
feet and upwards. Clean symmetrical trunks may be seen from 50 to
80, or even 100 feet in length, varying from 5 to 12 feet and upwards in
diameter.
The timber has acquired a reputation above all other New Zealand
timber from its value for masts, spars, and other purposes of naval
architecture, which, about the commencement of the present century,
led to its being exported for use in the British dockyards.
In this colony, except for general building purposes, its use has been
chiefly confined to the north island, where there is abundant evidence
of its durability for more than forty years in some of the old mission
buildings at the Bay of Islands, the weatherboardiug of which to this
day exhibits no signs of decay. Kauri has been employed, in conjunc.
tion with totara, for the upper timbers of the Auckland wharf, the
largest work of its kind in the colony, and with most satisfactory
results. Braces, stringers, and tie beams are in good condition after
being eighteen years in use. Recently an old pier, built twenty-three
years ago, was removed, and most of the timbers, afterwards employed
in the construction of a railway in the vicinity of Auckland, were
found to be perfectly sound ; some, of course, were decayed.
It is used for ties in coal and gold mines, for tramways, telegraph
poles, and curbing for sidewalks, with the most satisfactory results.
An instance is given where it had been used for eighteen years for
curbing in front of the Government House in Auckland, and when
removed found to be perfectly sound. It is not so well adapted for
piles for marine wharves or bridges or jetties, as it is attacked by the
teredo as soon as the bark is decayed; and, although squared timber
will resist the teredo for a longer period, it is found that kauri is inferior
for such purposes to other New Zealand woods. A steady export of
kauri is carried on chiefly with Tasmania, Australia, and Mauritius;
it is, in fact, the only New Zealand timber exported to any considerable
extent. Kauri resembles the California redwood in nearly every par-
ticular, except that kauri is, perhaps, finer and closer grained.
Totara (podocarpus totara). The totara is found throughout the
colony, usually attaining its greatest dimensions on rich alluvial lands
or on dry hillsides of low elevation.
Large specimens are found north of Auckland, but it does not occur
in abundance until after passing the southern limit of the kauri, viz,
38. Although not equal in size to the largest specimens of the
kauri, trees are occasionally found from 8 to 10 feet in diameter, 4
to 6 feet being about the average size; height, 40 to 70 feet. From the
extensive area which it occupies, it has been more generally used than
the kauri, and is the chief timber employed for building purposes in
the province of Wellington, where it occupies a similar position to that
held by the kauri in the Auckland province.
According to experiments made by competent engineers it has been
demonstrated that totara ranks below kauri in point of strength, at
