AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 109
the same time it is scarcely, if at all, inferior to it in durability. The
general unanimity of opinion in its favor is remarkable, some consider-
ing it superior to kauri for general purposes, but this opinion is only
found where totara is cheaper and more plentiful than kauri.
For piles for marine wharves and bridges, etc., it is regarded by
those who have used it as one of the most valuable timbers known. In
addition to its great durability, it has the power of resisting the attacks
of teredo for a considerable period, especially if driven with the bark
intact. It is said, and I believe truly, that trees felled during the
growing season will resist the attacks of teredo for a longer period than
those felled during the winter months. In some quarters this advan-
tage is questioned, though it is positively stated by many who have had
long experience in this respect that totaro piles driven with the bark
on are absolutely free from perforation by teredines while the bark
remains intact. The heart of totara will resist the teredo still longer.
It frequently happens that when totara piles are driven the sap-wood
is attacked and thoroughly perforated, after which the teredo dies,
being unable to make any impression on the heartwood until it has
been subjected for a longer period to the action of the sea water, when
the mollusk resumes possession, and the destruction of that portion of
the wood exposed to its ravages is a mere matter of time.
It may be fairly estimated that kauri and totara afford more than
two-thirds of the indigenous timber employed for buildings and con-
structive works in the colony. Both are extensively used for general
building purposes and exhibit practically the same amount of durabil-
ity; kauri, however, is more easily worked and takes a higher finish.
Rimu (red pine). A tree from 40 to 80 feet high; trunk, 3 to 5
feet in diameter. It is found throughout the colony, but in greater
abundance in the Middle Island and in the southern part of the North
Island. It is better adapted for housebuilding purposes than for con-
structive works. Whenever it has been exposed to the action of the
weather, except in housebuilding, it has given no satisfaction. Although
it can not be considered a suitable timber for outside work, its great
strength and the facility with which straight logs of large dimensions
can be obtained, enable it to be used with advantage for heavy beams,
girders, etc., under cover.
Kaliikatea (white pine). This tree grows from 50 to 100 feet high
and upwards, with trunk 2 to 4 or even 5 feet in diameter. It is found
in nearly all the forests of the colony, but in greater abundance in
swampy districts. It is not regarded as being of any great value,
especially for outdoor work, but when used inside, if kept free from
contact with the earth and in a perfectly dry situation, it lasts fairly
well.
Matai (black pine). Found throughout the colony, but not in any
considerable quantities in some portions of the North Island. It
usually attains a height of from 50 to 70 feet, with the trunk from 2 to
