VALUES OF FOREIGN COINS.
The following statements show the valuation of foreign coins, as given
by the Director of the United States Mint and published by the Secretary
of the Treasury, in compliance with the first section of the act of March 3,
1873, vlz: "That the value of foreign coins, as expressed in the money of
account of the United States, shall be that of the pure metal of such coin of
standard value," and that "the value of the standard coins in circulation of
the various nations of the world shall be estimated annually by the Director
of the Mint, and be proclaimed on the ist day of January by the Secretary
of the Treasury."
In compliance with the foregoing provisions of law, annual statements
were issued by the Treasury Department, beginning with that issued on Jan-
uary i, 1874, and ending with that issued on January i, 1890. Since that
date, in compliance with the act of October i, 1890, these valuation state-
ments have been issued quarterly, beginning with the statement issued on
January i, 1891.
These estimates "are to be taken (by customs officers) in computing the
value of all foreign merchandise made out in any of said currencies, imported
into the United States."
The following statements, running from January i, 1874, to April i,
1894, have been prepared to assist in computing the proper values in Ameri-
can money of the trade, prices, values, wages, etc., of and in foreign coun-
tries, as given in consular and other reports. The series of years are given
so that computations may be made for each year in the proper money values
of such year. In hurried computations, the reductions of foreign currencies
into American currency, no matter for how many years, are too often made
on the bases of latest valuations. When it is taken into account that the ruble
of Russia, for instance, has fluctuated from 77. 17 cents in 1874 to 37. 2 cents in
April, 1894, such computations are wholly misleading. All computations
of values, trade, wages, prices, etc., of and in the " fluctuating-currency coun-
tries ' ' should be made in the values of their currencies in each year up to
and including 1890, and in the quarterly valuations thereafter.
To meet typographical requirements, the quotations for the years 1876,
1877, l8 79> 1881, and 1882 are omitted, these years being selected as show-
ing the least fluctuations when compared with years immediately preceding
and following.
To save unnecessary repetition, the estimates of valuations are divided
into three classes, viz: (A) countries with fixed currencies, (B) countries
with fluctuating currencies, and (C) quarterly valuations of fluctuating cur-
rencies.
655A 1
