110 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
4 feet in diameter, and affords a timber of great durability, which is
used for a variety of purposes, such as piles for bridges, wharves, and
jetties; bedplates for machinery, millwrights 7 work, house blocks, rail-
way ties, etc.
Miro (also called black pine). Of similar distribution to the last,
which it closely resembles. It is easily distinguished when in fruit, as
the fruit is solitary instead of spicate. The cross section of the timber
shows the heartwood star-shaped and irregular. It appears, however,
to be specially adapted for use in positions where it is partially exposed
to the influence of sea- water, and under these circumstances exhibits
great durability. As a rule it is not esteemed a durable wood, except
under the above conditions.
Tanekdha (Phyllocladus trichomanoides). A straight, handsome tree
50 to 60 feet high, trunk rarely exceedingly 3 feet in diameter; common in
hilly districts in the North Island, and quite abundant in the province
of Auckland. The timber is white, dense, and heavy, closely resem-
bling in everything but size, it is said, the best crown memel of Europe.
No particular tests have been applied up to the present to ascertain its
strength and elasticity, but it is believed to be one of the strongest and
most durable timbers in the colony. The wood appears to be specially
adapted for railway ties and highway bridges, etc. An instance of its
durability is given by a civil engineer, who says he has seen tanekaha
used in water- tanks at the Bay of Islands after being eighteen years in
use.
Cedar; Pahautea (Libocedrus bidwillii). A handsome conical tree 60
to 80 feet high, 2 to 3 feet in diameter, producing a dark red close-
grained timber of great durability, but inclined to be rather brittle.
Found on the central ranges of theNorth Island, and sparingly through-
out the South Island, but never below 1,000 feet. This particular tim-
ber has been largely used in the construction of railways in the South
Island, with satisfactory results. It has been known to last in good
condition as piles in dikes and bridges and fencing posts for over
twenty years. For fence posts it is preferred to totara, but this claim
is evidently ill-founded. It is, also, largely used for the manufacture
of furniture.
Teatree; Manuka (Leptospermum oricoides). This tree attains a height
of 40 to 50 feet, with trunk 15 to 30 feet in length and 1 to 2 feet in
diameter; wood, hard and dense, much used for house blocks, fencing
rails, and especially valued for small marine piles. This timber is
largely used throughout the colony for piles in the construction of
jetties, wharves, etc., where timber of larger dimensions is not required.
It exhibits greater durability in marine structures than when driven
for land or fresh- water bridges. When used for land piles it has been
found to decay at the ground level in about six years. On the other
hand, piles in marine works in Auckland and other parts of the colony
have been found to be perfectly sound after being twenty years in use.
