AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. Ill
In one New Zealand district (Otaga)itis considered to resist the attacks
of teredo better than any other wood. In this respect I may remark
that experience has taught that the teredo is more active and conse-
quently more destructive in some sections of the country than in
others, so that the claim of superior resisting powers against the rav-
ages of this insect may not be well-founded. It has, also, been ascer-
tained that piles cut during the growing season resist the attacks of
teredo much longer than those cut in the winter.
Puriri ( Vitex littoralis). This tree grows to a height of from 40 to
60 feet, with a trunk from 3 to 5 feet and upwards in diameter. It has
been appropriately styled the New Zealand teak; it is, in fact, closely
allied to the Asiatic teak, and affords a timber of great density and
extreme durability,closelyresemblingliguum-vit8e in general appearance.
In durability it probably excels all other New Zealand timbers. The
growing tree is subject to the attacks of the larva of the puriri moth,
which bores holes sometimes three -eighths of an inch in diameter, but
the durability of the timber is not directly affected ; it is never attacked
when once worked up. It has been largely used in housebuilding. In
some houses now considerably over thirty years old the wood is still in
a perfectly sound condition. Posts of the heart- wood which have been
in the ground for twenty years are still sound and good.
Black birch; Rutu-Tawhui (Fagus fusea). The true black birch is a
splendid tree. It ascends the mountains from the sea level to 3,000
feet. The tree is usually from 60 to 90 feet in height, with a trunk
from 3 to 8 feet in diameter. In many districts it is abundant, and
forms a large portion of the forest. Its use is pretty general in upper
timbers for railway construction, bridges, jetties, mine timbers, etc.,
and has given uniform satisfaction. It has been used for piles in
marine works, and it is said to be very durable, offering great resist-
ance to teredo.
White birch (Fagus solandii). This tree, as also the red birch (Fagus
menziessii), has the same distribution over the colony as the black birch
and practically the same general characteristics, so far as size, elastic-
ity, durability, and general usefulness are concerned. These woods,
black, white, and red birch, are so well known that a more extended
notice of their relative worth as building materials, etc., would prob-
ably afford no information that would be considered valuable.
Pohutukawa (Metrosideros lucida). This tree is almost peculiar to the
province of Auckland, where it is abundant on rocky coasts, sometimes
attaining a height of 70 feet or more, but with a comparatively short
trunk, 2 to 4 feet in diameter, and numerous massive, tortuous arms.
Its peculiar forms, combined with its great durability, renders it spe-
cially adapted for the purposes of the shipbuilder, and it has usually
formed the framework of the numerous vessels built in the northern
province. For this purpose it is much esteemed, and is considered
superior to the northern rata ( Metrosideros lucida ), which in many
