112 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
localities enters very largely into the shipbuilders 7 trade. Hitherto it
has not been used much in constructive works, but its density and great
durability must render it valuable for the framing of dock gates,
sills, etc. It has never been known to be perforated by teredos,
except in the most superficial manner. It has an exceedingly rich,
deep-green foliage, and blossoms about Christmas every year. The
flowers are a beautiful deep red, large and rose-shaped, and very numer-
ous. It looks very fine when in full bloom. It is only found along the
seacoast of the North Island.
Ironbark; rata (Metrosideros lucida). This is usually found in hilly
situations, but descends to the sea level in the extreme south. It is a
handsome tree, 30 to 60 feet high ; trunk usually from 2 to 5 feet in
diameter; often very short. The timber resembles the preceding, but
is less dense in texture and has the advantage of splitting freely. It
has been used in shipbuilding in the South Island, and has lately been
utilized in the building of railway freight cars, for which its great
strength and durability render it well adapted.
Rata (Metrosideros robusta). This tree is almost confined to the
North Island. Height, 60 to 100 feet 5 diameter of trunk, 5 to 12 feet
and upwards. The timber resembles the preceding in its appearance
and is equally dense and durable, while it can be obtained of much
larger dimensions, so that it affords greater facilities for the con-
struction of railway cars, etc. It is used for shipbuilding, but for this
purpose it is found to be inferior in durability to the pohutukawa,
although it can be more easily procured in some situations. It will
doubtless in time be more frequently substituted. One peculiarity of
this tree is that it begins to grow at the base of another tree around
which it entwines itself like a woodbine, which it very much resembles
in general appearance. It continues to encircle the larger tree, embrac-
ing it so tightly that it ultimately kills it, after which the rata con-
tinues to grow, taking the place of the original by absorption that is,
it assumes control and becomes merged with the old tree, which has lost
its identity.
Hinau (Elwocarpus dentatus). Common throughout the country.
Used largely for railway ties, mine timbers, fencing-posts and rails,
and occasionally for bridges. One fault found with it is that it appears
to split too freely for the latter purpose. The timber is of a light dull-
brown color, very tough, strong, and durable.
Kowhai (Sophora tetraptera). Found in all parts of the colony,
varying in size from a small shrub to a tree 30 to 40 feet high, with a
trunk 1 to 3 feet in diameter. It is alleged that the timber closely
resembles the European laburnum, and is of great strength and dura-
bility ; but the supply of large timber is limited, it being often no more
than a bush. It is generally used for house blocks, railway ties, fenc-
ing-posts, rails, and piles. It has been found to be perfectly sound
after being in use for more than twenty years.
