AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 113
Maire Tawliake (Eugenia Marie). A small tree about 40 to 50 feet
high, 1 to 2 feet in diameter. Common in swampy land in the North
Island. Timber compact, heavy, and durable. Used for jettying, piles,
fencing, railway ties, etc.
Tawhero ( Weinmannia racemosa). This is a small tree 30 to 40 feet
high, 1 to 3 feet in diameter. It is often called black birch, and is even
substituted for that timber, to which it is greatly inferior in strength
and durability. Its bark is much used for tanning.
Eewa-Eewa(Knigntiaexcelsa). This is always considered a perishable
timber. It is used principally as an ornamental wood by cabinetmakers,
and iulayers, and workers in fancy and ornamental woodwork gener-
ally. It is a bright, yellowish wood, with large, soft grain, capable of
high polish. Generally useless, except for ornamental purposes.
Tipau (Myrsine salicina). This has been used only in places where
good timber is scarce. It is not considered durable, although highly
valued for inlaying, veneering, etc.
Tar air e (Nesodaphne tar air e). This is a very handsome tree 40 to 50
feet high, trunk 1 to 2 feet in diameter. Timber compact and capable
of taking a fine surface, but not durable when exposed. It is largely
used for shingles and is much esteemed by cabinetmakers because of
its softness, even grain, and high polish when worked.
Mungeao (Tetronthera calicaris). A small tree, most plentiful north
of the Auckland Isthmus. Height about 40 feet. Timber close grained
and extremely tough. Utilized largely for the manufacture of ship's
blocks, etc.
Black Maire (Oleacunningliamii) and Maire (Santalumcunninghamii).
These afford fine-grained timber of great density, and are extremely
durable. All are commonly called "Maire," alike by settlers and
natives. Black Maire usually attains the largest dimensions, and is
sometimes found 40 feet high or more. Santalum, of this species, is
the least of the group. All the different kinds are confined to the
North Island, and are most plentiful in the province of Auckland.
There are three different kinds of these trees, but two only are worthy
of mention here.
Kohe Kohe (Dysoxylum spectabile). This is a handsome tree, with
the trunk 2 to 4 feet in diameter; heart wood reddish, tough, but not
durable. The wood is occasionally used by the cabinetmaker, but is
not as well known as it deserves to be.
TitoJci (Alectryon excelsum). This tree is generally distributed
through the colony, except perhaps in the extreme south. It affords
a tough close-grained wood, well adapted for the purposes of the
machinist, but is not durable when exposed.
Kawalsa (Libocearus doniana). A splendid tree from 60 to 100
feet high, the trunk from 3 to 5 in diameter. Up to the present the
timber has not, I believe, been generally used except for fencing, but
665A 8
