114 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
there is no doubt in the minds of those familiar with it that it will
prove equally durable with its congener, L. bidwillii, already noticed.
Manoao (Daerydium colemoi). This is a small tree 30 to 40 feet
high found in various parts of the country, but has scarcely been used
except locally for house building, although well known even to the
natives as being one of the most durable timbers in the colony.
Pukatea (Atherosperma novce Zealandice). This is a striking tree,
frequently found 150 feet high, with a trunk of from 3 to 6 feet and
upwards in diameter. It is common in swampy places. Timber soft,
but apparently durable in water. It has been used in Auckland for
boat building, but is not greatly valued.
There are several other trees that might be mentioned, but so far
they have not been found to be of any commercial value, therefore their
inclusion in this report would not afford any useful information.
I am much indebted to a work published by Mr. Ashley Hunter, 0.
E., on the " durability of New Zealand timber." The work mentioned
is very complete, giving as it does in detail the durability and strength
of the different woods referred to. But the details are too minute and
elaborate to be included in a general report of this kind. I send with
this report 13 samples of the New Zealand timber which are most
esteemed for their commercial value and usefulness. *
KINDS OP LUMBER USED.
Kaure timber largely enters into all kinds of construction work in
the North Islands in preference to any other kind. It is admittedly
superior for general purposes, and is used in all kinds of building and
constructed works, from a window sash to the masts and spars of a ves-
sel.
For boat building, Oregon pine and spruce are occasionally used for
spars and sculls. For the latter purpose the best selected Oregon pine
only is used, and costs laid down here, duty paid, about 10 cents per
superficial fot)t.
Most of the American lumber used in this county is imported from
Melbourne and Sydney; but Oregon pine imported from either of the
above colonies costs, laid down here, about $6.30 per 100 superficial
feet.
American hickory and ash are largely used for coach building in
this country, and give the greatest satisfaction. Hickory and ash are
preferred to all other woods for coach and carriage building, and would
be more generally used if less expensive. It has been found impossible
to use the above-mentioned woods in the shipbuilding trade owing to
the cost being excessive. Small quantities of hickory and ash were
imported direct from New York last year, but just how much I have
been unable to ascertain. There is an average of one sailing vessel
a month leaving New York for New Zealand ports, in addition to
* Samples filed in the Department.
