116 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
CLIMATE.
Meteorological observations have been made ever since the founding
of the colony at first of an irregular character, and made only with a
view of comparing the climate of New Zealand with that of other
countries. It was not, however, until 1859 that systematic observations
were undertaken by a Government department. There are over 60
stations at which rainfall and weather are recorded.
Temperature. The climate in many respects, it is said, resembles that
of Great Britain. It is, however, far more equable, the extremes of
daily temperature varying throughout the year by an average of 20
only, while London is 7 colder than the North Island of New Zealand,
and 4 colder than the Middle Island. The mean annual temperature
of the North Island is 57 F., and of the Middle or South Island 52
F., that of London and New York, it is said, being 51.
The mean annual temperature of the different seasons for the whole
colony is: In spring, 55; in summer, 63 ; in autumn, 57, and in
winter, 48. The following are the means for the two warmest and the
two coldest months in the principal localities, with their differences
(Fahrenheit) :
Auckland, 69.6 and 53.1 ; Nelson, 63.6 and 45.9; New Plymouth, 64.7
and 49.03; Christchurch, 65.2 and 44.3; Wellington, 64.6 and 47.8;
Dunedin, 58.0 and 43.2.
The average difference between the mean temperature of the warmest
and coldest months for New Zealand is 17.
The climate on the west coast is more equable than on the east, the
difference between the average summer and winter temperatures in the
northwest portion of the North Island being nearly 4 less than in the
southeast, while as between the corresponding portions of the South
Island the difference is about 7. This is due to the action of the
equatorial winds, which impinge on the west coast. The extent of
their influence can be better appreciated by comparing the annual
fluctuations of temperature on the opposite seaboards of the Middle
Island. At Christchurch, on the east, the range is greater by 7 than
at certain points on the west.
The following official tables show the averages which have been
ascertained in respect of the temperature of the climate of New Zea-
land:
