AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
119
which, from the shape of the coast, reach the region of Cook Strait as
southeast storms. All the other winds are either land or sea drafts,
with light, fine weather, or are moderate winds produced by the circu-
lation of the atmosphere around anticyclonic areas of high barometric
pressure, which are found to be far more persistent in their influence
than the fast moving cyclonic or low-pressure areas.
The number of days on which there were gales or high winds in 1892
at each station was as follows :
Station.
Number of
days on
which
there were
gales or
high winds.
Maximum
velocity of
wind in any
twenty-
four hours .
Date.
45
Mile*.
Te Arolia . . ..
20
o
65
805
Oct 25
Lincoln ..
9
647
Sept. 8
18
530
Mav 12
Wellington, by reason of its position near the narrowest part of Cook
Strait, is peculiarly subject to wind.
Thunderstorms. Thunderstorms are most frequent when the changes
of wind are most suddenly felt, from the moist equatorial currents to
the cold polar currents of the southwest. On the west coast of New
Zealand they are most frequent in spring, except southwest of Otago,
where, during winter, thunderstorms are of almost daily occurrence.
Generally speaking, the climate of the colony is mild and pleasant.
In the Middle Island it is, however, considerably colder than in the
North Island particularly in the vicinity of the higher mountain
ranges, upon which snow remains the whole year round. The climate
of the North Island, or, at least, the northern portion of it, is semi-
tropical in its character. Vegetation and tree foliage appear to grow
without interruption throughout the various seasons. As a matter of
fact, there are no well-defined seasons, such as spring, summer, autumn,
and winter, in this part of the North Island. There is a wet season,
which is supposed to be the winter, but in this respect it would be diffi-
cult to distinguish between summer and winter, as it rains almost as
much in one season as in the other. Hence it is that there is scarcely
any perceptible cessation in the growth of vegetation in consequence
of the constant rainfall.
GENERAL BUILDING.
General building is not prosperous at present, owing to the depres.
sion that has prevailed here for a number of years past. But the pros-
pect is brightening, and indications are very encouraging that in the
near future the building trade will soon again assume a healthier aspect.
