120 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
Large vessels are not often built in this country, the shipbuilding
being practically confined to large- sized schooners and the smaller craft
generally.
Eailway building is very limited at present and has been since the
colony has ceased to borrow. There are no new lines projected, nor is
there any likelihood that there will be for some time to come. There
are, however, several extensions in course of construction or comple-
tion, but even these are not being pushed very vigorously, being largely
utilized for the purpose of affording work for the real needy and deserv-
ing laborers found in the ranks of the unemployed.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
I regret my utter inability to offer any practicable suggestions as to
the best means to be adopted to promote the sale of American lumber
in this colony at present. As already stated, there is a little demand
for Oregon pine, spruce, hickory, and ash, but I can not at present see
how sales can be increased unless the manufacturers of such timbers
are prepared to establish a general agency for the colony, and even
then they must be prepared to sustain a loss for a time. The woods
above mentioned are well known and their superiority fully appreciated,
but I question whether the establishment of an agency here, in conse-
quence of the limited population of the colony and the small demand
for such supplies, would pay. I merely offer the suggestion, but do not
recommend it.
JNO. D. CONNOLLY,
Consul.
AUCKLAND, February 24, 1894.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
NATIVE WOODS.
The following list embraces, I think, the entire catalogue of what are
now recognized as the commercial timbers of New South Wales, classi-
fied by competent authority. The first is the botanical, the second, in
parenthesis, the vernacular name :
Avicennia officinalis, Verbenacae (mangrove) : An erect, low branching tree ; timber
is valuable on account of its inlocked fiber; used for knees of boats, stone-
masons' mallets, and bullock yokes. Habitat, tidal estuaries, New South Wales.
Height, 20 to 30 feet ; diameter, 20 inches.
Banksia integrifolia, Proteaceaj (honeysuckle) : Timber coarse grained and tough ;
used for knees and ribs of boats, bullock yokes, etc. ; takes a good polish. Hab.,
open and scrub forests, northern and southern coast districts, New England, etc. ;
plentiful. Height, 40 to 50 feet; diameter, 1 to 2 feet.
Casuarina glauca, Casuarinae (swamp oak): Timber tough and strong; used for
shingles, staves, and fence posts. Hab., interior and coast districts; usually in
damp situations; plentiful. Height, 60 to 80 feet; diameter, H to 2 feet.
