AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 121
Casuarina torulosa, Casuarinae (forest oak) : Timber handsome, sometimes remark-
ably heavy ; valuable for cabinet work, shingles, etc. ; excellent fuel. Hab., open
forests from Illawarra to the Richmond River, westward to New England and
Bathurst. Height, 80 feet ; diameter, 2 feet.
Cedrela australis, Meliaceae (red cedar) : Timber very valuable, dark red, and often
beautifully marked ; light, easily wrought, and durable ; much used and valued
for furniture, patterns, and all kinds of fittings in house and shipbuilding.
Hab., brush forests northern and formerly in southern coast districts; becoming
scarce ; efforts now being made to conserve and propagate this timber. Height,
up to 100 and even 200 feet; diameter, up to 6 and even 10 feet (exceptionally).
Dysoxylon Fraserianum, MeliacesB (rosewood) : Timber rose scented, red, strong,
closegrained, and durable; much valued for furniture-making, ship-building,
turnery, and indoor work, etc. ; one of the largest and best of indigenous timber
trees. Hab., brush forests northern and southern coasts districts; moderately
plentiful. Height, 100 feet; diameter, 4 to 6 feet.
Eucalyptus botryoides, Myrtaceae (bastard mahogany) : Timber strong and durable,
used for felloes of wheels and boat knees. Hab., coast districts. Height, 40
to 50 feet ; diameter, 24 inches.
Eucalyptus creba, Myrtaceae (grey ironbark) : Timber hard, heavy, tough, strong,
inlocked, and durable; used for poles and shafts of carriages, spokes of wheels,
railway sleepers, etc. Hab., open forests, northern and southern coast districts,
extending some distance inland. Height, 100 to 150 feet; diameter, 2 to 5 feet.
Eucalyptus longifolia, Myrtacese (woolly butt) : Timber strong and durable; used for
wheelwrights' work, fencing, felloes, spokes, shafts, house building. Hab.,
open forests, on rich alluvial flats, coastal districts ; plentiful. Height, 100 to
150 feet; diameter, 3 to 5 feet.
Eucalyptus niacrorrhyncha, Myrtaceae (stringybark) : Timber excellent for house
carpentry, flooring boards, fencing, etc. Hab., open forests, chiefly west of the
dividing range.
Eucalyptus microcorys, Myrtaceae (tallowwood) : Timber strong, handsome, and dur-
able; very useful for building purposes, and especially for flooring boards; used
also for palings, etc. Hab., coast districts. Height, 100 to 150 feet; diameter,
6 to 8 feet.
Eucalyptus pilularis, Myrtaccaae (blackbutt): Timber excellent for house carpentry,
ship building, and for any purpose where strength and durability are required.
Hab., open forests from Twofold Bay to the Hastings River, and extending a
considerable distance inland. Height, 100 to 200 feet; diameter, 3 to 8 feet.
Eucalyptus paniculata, Myrtaceae (she or pale ironbark) : Timber much valued, hard,
tough, strong, unlocked, and durable ; used for bridges, sleepers, railway car-
riages, beams, poles of bullock drays, piles, spokes of wheels, etc. Hab., open
forests, northern and southern coast districts; plentiful. Height, 100 to 150
feet ; diameter, 4 to 5 feet.
Eucalyptus populifolia (red box) : Timber hard, close grained, and durable ; used
for posts and building purposes, mauls, railway sleepers, etc. ; handsome wood
when polished. Hab., on dry, stony ridges, southern and western interior dis-
tricts; moderately plentiful. Height, 40 to 50 feet; diameter, 24 inches.
Acacia Cunninghamii, Leguminosae (bastard myall) : Wood close grained ; useful for
cabinet purposes. Very homogeneous. Analysis of bark tannin, 9.13 per cent ;
extract, 1.15 per cent. Hab., northern scrub forests and New England; moder-
ately plentiful. Height, 20 to 30 feet; diameter, 9 to 12 inches.
Acacia decurrens, Leguminosse (green wattle) : Timber light, tough, and strong,
excellent fuel. Bark rich in tannin; varying from 25 to 35 per cent. Hab.,
northern and southern coast districts ; plentiful. Height, 20 to 50 feet ; diam-
eter, 6 to 9 inches.
