122 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
Acacia doratoxyion, Legurainosse (currawang) : Timber dark-colored, hard, heavy
tough, close-grained, and durable; used for gates, buggy poles, furniture, etc.,
and formerly used by the Aboriginese for spears and boomerangs ; leaves eaten
by stock. Hab., dry, stony ridges, southern, southwestern, and western interior
districts; moderately plentiful. Height, 20 to 30 feet; diameter, 6 to 12 inches.
Acacia homolophylla, Leguminosae (curly yarran) : Timber much sought after for
turnery work. Wood hard and fragrant; very durable. Hab., central and
western New South Wales. Height, 20 to 30 feet ; diameter, 6 to 12 inches.
Acacia melanoxylon. (R. Br.) LeguminosaB (blackwood) : Timber hard and close-
grained; considered one of the most valuable woods; much prized for furniture,
general cabinet work, carriage building, billiard tables, etc. The figured wood
is cut into veneers; when polished it closely resembles walnut wood. Hab., the
extreme south only of New South Wales. It is abundant in Tasmania and Vic-
toria. Height (in New South Wales), 50 to 80 feet; diameter, 18 to 24 inches.
Acacia Oswaldi, Leguminosae (umbrella bush) : Timber faintly scented, dark-col-
ored, hard, heavy, close-grained, and durable; useful for turnery and cabinet
work; a dense shade tree; leaves eaten by stock. Hab., open plains, Lachlan,
and other interior districts; not plentiful. Height, 15 to 20 feet; diameter, 6 to
9 inches.
Acacia pendula, Leguminosae (myall): Timber hard, close-grained; in an unpol-
ished state it preserves a peculiar fragrance of violets, and is in consequence in
much request for making glove, handkerchief, and other fancy boxes, and tobacco
pipes. Hab., central and western New South Wales. Height, 30 to 40 feet;
diameter, 18 to 20 inches.
Acacia penninervis, Leguminosae (hickory or mountain hickory) : Timber hard, mod-
erately heavy, close-grained, and durable; used for cabinet purposes, and the
bark for tanning. Hab., brush forests, northern and southern coast districts and
Blue Mountains; plentiful. Height, 30 to 40 feet; diameter, 12 to 18 inches.
Acacia salicina, LegurninosaB (koobah, or native willow): Timber close-grained,
tough, heavy, dark-brown, and nicely marked; takes a high polish; used in
furniture and cabinet-making. Hab., portions of central, and in western New
South Wales. Height, 30 to 50 feet; diameter, 12 to 18 inches.
Angophora subvelutina, Myrtaceae (broad-leaved apple tree) : Timber moderately
heavy, tough, and very hard when dry; used for wheel-naves, bullock yokes,
posts, and rails ; dresses and polishes well. Hab., northern rivers and southern
coast districts. Height, 70 to 80 feet ; diameter, 24 to 36 inches.
Aphananthe phillipiuensis, Urticeae (elm) : Timber light in color, close-grained ; used
for ceilings, linings, etc. Hab., northern New South Wales. Height, 80 to 90
feet; diameter, 15 to 18 inches; not plentiful.
Araucaria Cunniughamii, Coniferas (hoop or colonial pine) : Timber strong and dur-
able, but soon decays when exposed to alternate damp and dryness. Is largely
used, and as a cheap, soft wood yields spars 80 feet to 100 feet long ; pale in
color. Hab., northern New South Wales. Height, 150 to 200 feet; diameter, 24
to 48 inches.
Alphitonia excelsa, Rhamneae (red ash) : Timber hard, firm, and close-grained. Hab.,
brush forests of coast districts of New South Wales. Attains a height of 100
feet.
Banksiaintegrifolia, ProteaceoB (white honeysuckle) : Timbertough and strong; used
for boat knees and ribs, bullock yokes, etc. Hab., open and scrub forests, north-
ern and southern coast districts; plentiful. Height, 40 to 50 feet; diameter, 1
to 2 feet.
Backhousia myrtifolia, Myrtaceee (grey myrtle or lavewood) : Timber close-grained,
hard, and durable ; used for tool handles, mallets, and is suitable for turnery.
Hab., banks of creeks and damp situations ; northern and southern districts mod-
erately plentiful. Height, 30 to 40 feet; diameter, 12 to 18 inches.
