AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 123
Backhousiasciadophora, Myrtaceae (myrtle) : Timber hard, close-grained; not gener-
ally used or known, but considered likely to be suitable for wood engraving,
turnery, etc. Hab., mountain scrub forests, northern coast districts; plentiful
in places. Height, 80 to 90 feet; diameter, 2 feet.
Ceratopetalum apetalum, Saxifragese (coaehwood): Timber fragrant, light, soft,
tough and close-grained; used for cabinetwork, boat and coach building.
Hab., in gullies northern and southern coast districts. Height, 50 to 70 feet ;
diameter, 12 to 24 inches.
Casuarina suberosa, Casuarieae (black oak): Timber useful for cabinetwork; used
for bullock yokes, mauls, tool handles, shingles. Hab., coastal and inland.
Height, 40 to 50 feet ; diameter, 18 to 24 inches.
Cupania semiglauca, Sapiudaceae (black ash) : Timber, hard, tough, close-grained,
elastic; not much used. Hab., brush forests, northern and southern coast dfs-
tricts; not plentiful. Height, 40 to 50 feet; diameter, 1 to 1| feet.
Cryptocorya obovata, Laurinese (sycamore, or she beech): Timber light, soft, and
durable ; used for flooring boards, staves, and inside house carpentry. Hab.,
brush forests, northern coast districts; not plentiful. Height, 60 to 70 feet;
diameter, 2 to 3 feet.
Dysoxylon muelleri, Meliaceae (turnip-wood): Timber red, easily wrought, and
durable ; used for cabinetwork, cigar boxes, and interior fittings, etc. When
fresh cut it emits an odor similar to that of a Swedish turnip. Hab., brush
forests, northern coast districts ; not plentiful. Height, 100 to 120 feet ; diameter,
3 to 4 feet.
Dysoxylon fraserianum, Meliaceae (rosewood) : Timber resembles " red cedar." It
is beautifully marked, and suitable for cabinetwork, etc. Fragrant. Hab.,
northern coast districts. Height, 80 to 100 feet ; diameter, 2 to 3 feet.
Daphnandra micrantha, Monhniacese (a yellow wood): Timber fragrant; yellow,
when fresh, close-grained, easily wrought, and takes a good polish; used for
cabinetwork, etc.; bark intensely bitter. Hab., brush forests, northern coast
districts ; plentiful in places. Height, 100 to 120 feet ; diameter, 3 feet.
Doryphora sassafras, MonirniacesB (sassafras): Timber is somewhat soft, but suitable
for the inside lining of houses and some kinds of furniture, also for packing-
cases; the wood is fragrant, and disagreeable to all kinds of vermin. Light in
weight when seasoned, and light colored. Hab., coastal districts. Height, over
50 feet; diameter, 24 to 36 inches.
Eucalyptus Baileyana, Myrtaceae (a stringybark) : Timber very tough, suitable for
tool handles, etc. ; not much used. Hab., open 4 forests, on ridges, north coast
districts; not plentiful. Height, 50 to 100 feet; diameter, 2 to 3 feet.
Eucalyptus microcorys, Myrtaceae (tallow-wood) : Timber of a greasy nature, strong
and durable ; used for flooring and general purposes, boatbuilding, etc. Hab.,
northern open forests, coast districts; plentiful. Height, 100 to 150 feet; diame-
ter, 36 to 72 inches.
Eucalyptus micro theca, Myrtacese (coolibah) : Timberlhard, heavy, and close grained;
useful in building, but not much used. Hab., plains, subject to variation, seldom
on the banks of running streams; Lachlan and Darling River districts, extend-
ing to the Barrier Ranges. Height varies greatly, sometimes little better than a
shrub to 50 feet.
Eucalyptus pilularis, Myrtacese (blackbutt) : Timber excellent for house carpentry,
bridge-planking, ships' decks, paving cubes, etc. ; is coming greatly into favor,
and is consequently used largely ; is a valuable species of Eucalyptus, straight
in grain, moderately heavy. Hab., open forests from Twofold Bay to the Hast-
ings River, and extending some distance inland. Height, 100 to 200 feet; diame-
ter, up to 15 feet (exceptionally).
Eucalyptus polyanthema, MyrtaceaB (bastard box) : Timber remarkably tough, hard,
and elastic ; used|for naves, felloes, and spokes of wheels, agricultural implements,
