124 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
bridge work, etc. Hab., open forests, usually on banks of creeks and damp situ-
ations in the southern coast and interior districts; moderately plentiful.
Height, 50 to 60 feet; diameter 2 to 3 feet.
Eucalyptus saligna, Myrtaceae (flooded gum, blue gum) : Timber strong and durable,
splendid wood, in good repute for building purposes, as it does not readily take
fire, and is one of the straightest in the grain and easiest to work of the Euca-
lyptus timbers; it is alsojused for shipbuilding, ship planks, wheel naves, felloes,
etc.; timber varies; supposed due to situation and soil where growing. Hab.,
open forests on banks of creeks, and rich, moist, alluvial soil ; northern and
southern coast districts; plentiful. Height, 100 to 120 feet; diameter, 36 to 60
inches.
Eucalyptus sideroxylon, Myrtacese (red ironbark): Timber highly esteemed for
strength and durability, and much used for large beams, girders, sleepers, draw-
poles, fuel, and other purposes, in which strength and durability are required.
Hab., open forests northern and southern coast districts, and central districts,
New South Wales; plentiful. Height, 100 to 150 feet; diameter, 3 to 5 feet.
Eucalyptus sideroxylon, Myrtaceae (mugga) : Timber soft in character when com-
pared with other ironbarks; is not plentiful, being found in small belts or
patches ; chiefly in central New South Wales, Macquarie, and Bogan River dis-
tricts ; does not grow to any size.
Eucalyptus tereticornis, Myrtaceae (red gum) : Timber hard, heavy, close grained
and durable ; used for posts and rails of fences ; bridge, house, and ship building,
wheelwrights' work, etc. Hab., open forests, northern and southern coast dis-
tricts. Height, 80 to 100 feet; diameter, 36 to 48 inches.
Eucalyptus virgata, MyrtacesB (mountain ash) : Timber tough, durable, and elastic,
splits freely; used for staves of casks, shingles, poles, shafts of drays, palings,
rails, and rough buildings. Hab., open forests, southern coast districts and
Blue Mountains; plentiful. Height, 100 to 150 feet; diameter, 3 to 4 feet.
Eugenia Ventenatii, Myrtacese (myrtle) : Timber close grained and tough ; used for
tool handles, ribs of boats, and the flooring boards of verandas. Hab., brush
forests, Hastings, Macleay, Clarence, and Richmond rivers. Height, 40 to 60
feet; diameter, 24 to 36 inches.
Flindersia Oxleyana, Meliaceae (light yellow wood] : Timber strong, durable, fine
grained, and of good color; used in boatbuilding, cabinetwork, and to many
purposes to which cedar is applied; useful wood for fancy work, owing to pale
yellow color; resembles beech; suitable for hand-screen making, buggy shafts,
etc. ; not plentiful. Hab., northern brush forests, New South Wales. Height,
80 to 100 feet; diameter, 24 to 42 inches.
Flindersia Bennettiana, Meliaeeae (boguui-bogum) : Timber close grained, useful for
saddle-making, staves, etc.; not much used. Hab., northern districts, New
South Wales. Height, 70 to 90 feet ; diameter, 18 to 26 inches.
Flindersia Schottiana, Meliaceae (ash) : Timber hard, close grained, prettily marked,
and of a pale yellow color; used for shingles and staves and for cabinetwork.
Hab., Hastings River, New South Wales. Height, 30 to 60 feet; diameter, 18
to 30 inches.
Frenela robusta, ConiferaB (white or common pine) : Timber is very full of knots,
polishes well, and shows to advantage; has a camphoraceous odor; varies in
color from light to dark brown ; is very durable, and resists white ants to a great
extent; of a brittle nature; used for building in central districts, lining-boards,
and ceilings. Hab., central and western New South Wales. Height, 60 to 70
feet ; diameter, 18 to 24 inches.
Frenela Macleayana, Coniferse (Port Macquarie pine) : Timber light and useful ; used
for indoor purposes, weatherboards, deals, battens, etc. Hab., northern New
South Wales. Height, 20 to 30 feet ; diameter, 6 to 12 inches.
