AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 125
Gmeliiia Leichhardtii, Verbenaceae (white beech): Timber strong, durable, and
easily worked ; prized for decks of vessels, flooring of verandas, etc. ; light
colored, and useful for turning and furniture-making ; one of the most useful of
our timbers. Hab., brush forests, northern and southern coast districts; not
very plentiful. Height, 120 to 150 feet; diameter, 36 to 60 inches.
Melaleuca leucadendron, MyrtaceaB (white tea- tree ): Timber hard, heavy, and
close-grained ; said to be imperishable underground. Hab., northern and south-
ern coast districts; plentiful. Height, 50 to 60 feet; diameter, 24 to 36 inches.
Melia composita, Meliaceae (white cedar): Timber soft, easily worked; wood from
matured trees is found to be fairly durable ; splits easily ; handsomely marked
and polishes well ; much valued for staves and the finer kinds of coopers' work ;
a beautiful flowering and foliaged shade tree; suitable for planting in public
parks in warm situations. Hab., brush forests, northern coast districts; mod-
erately plentiful. Height, 80 to 100 feet ; diameter, 3 to 4 feet.
Olea paniculata (marble wood) : Timber hard, close grained, and durable; heartwood
nicely mottled ; used for staves, and suitable for cabinetwork and turnery. Hab.,
brush forests, northern and southern coast districts ; not plentiful. Height, 40
to 50 feet ; diameter, 2 to 2$ feet.
Petalostigma quadriloculare, Euphorbiaeeae (native quince): Timber hard, close
grained, and durable; prettily marked, but not used. Hab., open forests on
margins of brush forests, northern coast districts; not plentiful. Height, 10 to
12 feet; diameter, 6 inches.
Rhodamuia argentea, MyrtaceaB (white myrtle) : Timber hard, finegrained, and dura,
ble; suitable for carving, turning, fancy, and cabinetwork, etc. Hab., brush
forests, northern coast districts ; moderately plentiful. , Height, 80 to 100 feet ;
diameter, 2 to 3 feet.
Syncarpia leptopetala, Myrtacese (turpentine myrtle) : Timber hard, heavy, and dura-
ble; used for turnery, etc. Hab., gullies, northern coast districts; not plenti-
ful. Height, 50 to 60 feet; diameter, 24 inches.
Syncarpia laurifolia (turpentine): Timber hard, heavy, strong, and durable; used
extensively for piles; used also for posts, shipbuilding, sleepers, and general
building purposes; a difficult wood to burn, and very durable underground.
Hab., in gullies, northern and southern coast districts, and Blue Mountains;
plentiful. Height, 100 to 150 feet; diameter, 36 to 60 inches.
Stenocarpus salignus, Proteaceae (red silky oak, beefwood) : Timber highly appreci-
ated and now scarce; used for making furniture, picture frames, walking sticks,
veneers, and the finer kinds of coopers' work. Color, red-brown, and somewhat
mottled; somewhat hard in texture, but easily worked. Hab., northern coast
districts and Illawarra, New South Wales. Height, 30 to 50 feet; diameter, 18 to
24 inches.
Tristania conferta, Myrtacete (brush box): Timber hard and durable, heavy, and
close grained; used for bridge and housebuilding, shipbuilding, plow beams,
wheelwrights' work, etc., and largely planted for shade purposes in towns.
Hab., open forest ridges, northern coast districts. Height, 80 to 120 feet; diam-
eter, 36 to 60 inches. Plentiful.
Tristania suaveolens, Myrtaceae (broad-leaved water gum): Timber remarkably
strong, elastic, tough, close grained, and durable; used for mallets, tool handles,
cogs for wheels, posts, etc. Hab., open and brush forests, northern coast dis-
tricts; moderately plentiful. Height, 60 to 80 feet; diameter, 1 to 2 feet.
Tarrietia argyrodendron, Sterculiaceas (ironwood) : Timber white, close grained,
hard, and durable ; used for building purposes and staves. Hab., brush forests,
northern coast districts; plentiful. Height, 80 to 100 feet; diameter, 3 to 4
feet.
Vitex lignum- vitae, Verbenaceae (lignum-vitae, or white beech) : Timber valuable
and useful, durable, close grained, and does not shrink in drying, much used for
decks of vessels and veranda floors; suitable for turnery and cabinetwork,
