126 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
Hab., brash forests, northern coast districts; not plentiful. Height, 70 to 80
feet; diameter, 24 inches.
Zanthoxylum brachyacanthum, Rutacero (satin wood, a yellow wood): Timber
bright, soft, silky, close grained, easily wrought; used for cabinetwork, etc.
Hab., brush forests, northern coast districts, New South Wales; not plentiful.
Height 40 to 50 feet; diameter, 10 to 15 inches.
Castanospermum australe, Leguminosse (black bean, or Moreton Bay chestnut):
Timber resembles walnut wood; is dark colored, handsome, close grained, and
durable ; used for cabinetwork ; is coming into more general use than formerly,
as its qualities are better known ; a valuable timber and shade tree, and very
ornamental ; stock-owners destroy this tree, owing to their cattle being poisoned
by eating its seeds; the seeds are soaked in water, roasted, and eaten by the
aborigines. Hab., brush forests, northern coast districts; moderately plentiful,
height, 120 to 130 feet; diameter, 4 to 5 feet.
Dysoxylon Fraserianum, Meliacea? (rosewood) : Timber resembles red cedar. It is
beautifully marked, and suitable for cabinetwork, etc.; fragrant. Hab.,
northern coast districts. Height, 80 to 100 feet ; diameter, 2 to 3 feet.
Dysoxylon Muelleri, Meliaceaa (red bean) : Timber red, easily wrought, and durable ;
used for cabinet-work, cigar boxes, interior fittings, etc. When fresh cut it
emits an odor similar to that of a Swedish turnip. Hab., brush forests,
northern coast districts ; not plentiful. Height, 100 to 120 feet ; diameter, 3 to
4 feet.
Eucalyptus rostrata, Myrtacea3 (red gum): Timber strong, hard, heavy, close
grained, and durable; almost impervious to white ants and teredo; used for ship
and boat building; piles, flooring boards, weather boards, planking, railway
sleepers, bridges, wharves, and building purposes generally ; one of the best and
most valuable hardwoods. Hab., open forests, chiefly on river banks; and rich
alluvial flats subject to inundation ; Murray and Edwards rivers, and most of the
rivers of the interior; plentiful. Height, 100 to 200 feet; diameter, 3 to 5 feet.
Elseocarpus grandis, Tiliaceae (mountain ash): Timber, white, tough, soft, close
grained, and easily wrought; used for building purposes, etc. Hab., brush
forests, northern coast districts; moderately plentiful. Height, 100 to 150 feet;
diameter, 4 to 5 feet.
Gmelina Leichhardtii, Verbenaceae (beech) : Timber strong, durable, and easily
worked ; prized for decks of vessels, flooring of verandas, etc. ; light-colored, and
useful for turning and furniture-making ; one of the most useful of our timbers.
Hab., brush forests, northern and southern coast districts; not very plentiful.
Height, 120 to 150 feet; diameter, 36 to 60 inches.
Owenia cepiodora (onion wood): Timber valuable for cabinetwork; of a red color
and prettily marked, sometimes very handsome ; is durable; when freshly cut
it emits a peculiar odor. Hab., brush forests, northern coast districts ; not plen-
tiful. Height, 100 to 124 feet; diameter, 3 to 4 feet.
Rhus rhodanthema, AnacardiaceaB (yellow cedar) : Timber close grained and dur-
able; takes a good polish ; suitable for carving, turning, cabinet and fancy work.
Hab., brush forests, northern xsoast districts ; not plentiful. Height, 50 to 60
feet; diameter, 2 to 3 feet.
Of course there are many other timbers in New South Wales, but
believing it is the design of the Government to have reports cover only
the space necessary for information which is of practical use, I selected
those varieties now having commercial value.
Besides the above native woods, there are large quantities of pine,
fir, cedar, and redwood consumed in this and other Australian colonies,
though, owing to the prevailing dullness and the large stocks on hand,
the demand is very light.
