130 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
in prosperous times 3 as local mills furnish native timber cheaper than
the imported article can be procured.
For fencing, the material is prepared by splitting the free grained
gums; for building, either brick or native wood is used; while for roof-
ing, corrugated iron is now chiefly preferred. This material is much
cheaper than slate, considerable cheaper than shingles, and with the
convenience with which it is placed, as well as transported, it is rap-
idly becoming the roofing material of the country . Even in the cities,
many fine buildings are roofed with it, and nearly all the porches, veran-
das, barns, and outhouses are covered with this not unattractive and
very suitable material.
There are practically no buildings going up in the cities of Australia
anywhere, nor can there be in the near future. I am informed that in
Melbourne there are 20,000 empty houses waiting tenants, and surely
of the 83,000 dwellings in Sydney there are a few thousand beyond the
necessities of the population. Most of the timber used in the mines is
from the native forests, though in former days there was considerable
Oregon pine used at Newcastle and Broken Hill. The demand at
Broken Hill still continues, as I am informed that several vessels dur-
ing the last few months arrived at South Australia with lumber from
the Pacific coast for these mines.
There is no shipbuilding proper in New South Wales, but for the
numerous small craft extensively constructed here, the long, strong,
and clear timbers from the Oregon pine are most available and consid-
erably used.
There is very little railroad building going on in this colony, and the
timbers used are wholly native. There are probably nowhere timbers
so durable or suitable for railroad ties, called here sleepers, or for
bridge building, as the local native woods. So me of these timbers have
many merits ; not only are they very strong and very durable, but some
varieties, notably iron bark, are almost fireproof.
For car-building purposes the native woods are well adapted. They
finish very smoothly, are strong, and take a fine polish.
TRADE OUTLOOK.
As to how we may increase our lumber trade with Australia, I would
first remark that there is little hope of increase until a revival of busi-
ness.
However, I would suggest that it is in our power to secure a greater
portion of the existing trade by beating our competitors in quality.
While laying no claim to special knowledge on that point, I have care-
fully examined the lumber from many of our States and from many
countries, and I feel quite confident that the Oregon pine (fir), carefully
selected from the forests of western Washington or Oregon and sawed
with judgment, will furnish a class of lumber which for clearness,
