AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 131
strength, and soundness is very far superior to any of the soft woods
that come from Norway or New Zealand. The dealers and consumers
here are good judges, and they want the best there is. With them it is
cold business.
Then it seems to me that owing to the hardness and great weight of
native woods here, our light, tasteless, and odorless spruce should be
used exclusively for fruit-packing purposes, whether the package be
a crate, a box, or a barrel. Considering lightness, neatness in color,
tastelessness, and all the qualities necessary for packages for eatables,
1 believe the Pacific slope spruce much superior to any other material
available for this market.
There is another suggestion I venture to make regarding a possible
increased lumber trade in these colonies, and that is a reciprocal
exchange of timbers or remission of duties. Our merchantable tim-
bers are soft; theirs are hard. Ours are suitable for cottages, build-
ings, floorings, scaffoldings, joists, shipbuilding, etc., while theirs are
superior for pavements, furniture, tine implements, etc. Sydney is
better paved than any American city, save Washington. It is almost
entirely paved with wooden blocks. A careful test of many years has
been made. Experiments with different woods, as well as various
metal and stone cubes, on the chief streets where there is the heaviest
and most continued traffic, have been made, and the wood pavement has
proved its great superiority.
It seems that turpentine, black butt, mahogany, and tallowwood
have proved the better woods for the purpose. As compared with
blue-stone cubes, the stone wears at the rate of 1 inch per year, and
the better woods but one-twelfth of an inch. Besides being much more
durable, they are less noisy, less destructive to vehicles, easier on
horses, and in every way more desirable.
Add to this the fact that they are also cheaper, and that a wood
pavement makes a drive superior to asphalt, and why should our people
not enjoy this luxury? There may be climatic objections in many
American cities, but there certainly are not any on the Pacific coast.
Considering population, the people of New South Wales are the
greatest commercial people on earth. They believe in trade. They are
anxious for a market for every merchantable product of the country.
I believe if our people would open up a market for the hard woods of
this country, if they would experiment with and finally use this New
South Wales paving material, which I believe to be the best in the
world in suitable climates, it would result in reciprocal trade and give
our lumber dealers the market of this country.
There are two other suggestions that I desire to make relative to our
trade with Australasia, a little outside of the circular instructions, but I
think not so foreign to the subject as to subject me to criticism, and
one is that our people should be not only very careful in the shipment
of all articles for this market, but they should be sure that every article
