132 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
is as good as represented and fully equal to the sample. A few
unscrupulous or careless dealers have aroused a feeling of suspicion
against our countrymen, so there is a little prejudice to overcome and
our competitors are not slow in using the ad vantage given them. The
merchants of England claim these markets as their right, and the
national pride, if not prejudice, of these people predisposes them to
favor their own countrymen, while France and Germany are striving, by
subsidies and low prices, to increase their trade here, so that Americans
are compelled to rely upon the merits of their wares and the enterprise
of their agencies.
But what is more needed to extend our trade than anything else,
other things being equal, is that our strong exporting firms, mer-
chants, manufacturers, etc., should establish agencies in this country,
witTi active, wide-awake, honest, enterprising, Americans in charge, to
handle and display American goods and keep American ideas, wares,
enterprise, and inventions constantly before the people.
In transportation we have the advantage over any other country,
and our people should have, and will have when they deserve it, 40 per
cent of the trade of Australasia, instead of 3 per cent as now.
GEO. W. BELL,
Consul.
SYDNEY, March 27, 1894.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
NATIVE WOODS.
Apart from other characteristics, the trees of South Australia are
not as tall as those which are found on the northeast and west of this
territory. The eucalypti do not exceed 100 feet to 120 feet in height.
Among the twenty species of eucalypti which appear in the extra-
tropical parts of south Australia there are only a few varieties which
;ire held in special estimation.
They are commonly called red, white, and blue gum, stringy bark, and
peppermint. These are used for various purposes, such as building,
rough carpentry, wheelwright's work, and for fuel. The red gum (Euca-
lyptus rostrata) is very hard and solid, weighing about 62 pounds to
the cubic foot, and when properly seasoned is impervious to the white
ant; it is, however, most difficult to work up. The stringy bark (E t
obliqua) has its habitat principally on the hills. It sheds its bark in
long fibrous strings, which loosen and droop down as they become
detached by the newly-formed bark underneath. This process gives
to the trunks of the trees a ragged, untidy appearance. The stringy
