AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 133
1 ark grows so straight that the young trees are much used for scaffold
polos, spars, etc., in which length, strength, toughness, and straight,
ness are required. The wood of these trees makes excellent palings
and shingles because it splits evenly and readily. It is also used largely
for fencing rails and sometimes posts, but it soon perishes in the
ground, and the white ant destroys it rapidly. As fuel it is not good.
When dry it burns away fiercely; when green or damp it can with dif-
ficulty be got to burn at all, unless mixed with other more combustible
wood. The blue gum (E. dumosa) is valuable for all sorts of work, and
for fuel as well. The white gum (E. viminalis) is generally inferior in
durability; it does not resist white ants, and when green or damp it is
worse even than stringy bark as fuel. The peppermint (E. odorata) is
a hard wood, useful for ordinary purposes, and very serviceable as fuel.
The red gum is widely distributed. It is never far distant from water,
and its stately branches are almost invariably noticeable on the margin
of creeks and water courses in the north.
All eucalypti, indeed most Australian trees, are remarkable for their
naked appearance. The boughs in their gray outlines are always dis-
tinctly traceable through the foliage, which is smooth and shiny. From
a distance the leaves scarcely seem to depend from the boughs. The
trees for their size throw little shade, and the thick branches of some
varieties often drop off suddenly on a perfectly calm, hot day, to the
certain destruction of anything that may happen to be beneath. These
trees give a special monotony to the scenery of South Australia.
The wood of the acacia is useful only for cabinet work, but the
blackwood (Acacia melanoxylon) has better qualities for purposes of
that nature. This tree, however, is common in the southeast, while it
is rare near Adelaide. It is more common still on the eastern side of
the border. Another species of acacia, the wattle of the colonists (A.
pycnantha), at one time neglected, but now largely cultivated, is valu-
able for the gum which freely exudes from it. Its bark, bought in
England as mimosa bark, is one of the best of the kinds used for tan-
ning purposes. There are other kinds of acacia which are also valua-
ble for tanning, but none are equal to the wattle.
The she-oak (Casurina stricta] is remarkable in appearance. Its
fronds do not shape as ordinary leaves; they appear as continuations
of the branches. It never reaches any. great height, and is almost
funereal in aspect. The wind rushing or sighing through these trees
causes a mournful whistling or wailing sound, according to its force.
All kinds of cattle eat the fronds greedily. The wood is tough and
splits tolerably even. It makes excellent spokes for wheels, handles
for hammers, etc., and is used also for turning work and in cabinet-
making. As fuel it is excellent.
The tea trees (Melaleuca and Leptospermum) mostly inhabit low damp
situations, and are to some extent valuable because of the durable
nature of their wood when used underground, or perhaps in water. It
