134 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
is close-grained and hard, and when dry heavy. It is generally sound
at the heart. The wood of the native pines of this province (Frenela
robusta and F. rhomboidea) are not durable, and are little used except
for fences or for fuel. The Banksia marginata, or honeysuckle, is occa-
sionally used for cabinet work, and the Myoporum acuminatum,
although soft, is tough, and forms excellent knees for boats.
The late Dr. Schomburgk, director of the botanic garden, Adelaide,
from whose writings the foregoing account has been mainly derived,
remarks upon the absence of native edible fruits, " of which there are
Qone deserving the name except a few berry-bearing shrubs belonging
to the orders Epacridce and Santalaccce, Astroloma and Leucopogon,
the principal species of which, the native currant of the colonists
(Astroloma humtfusum} and the so-called native peach, with a succulent
per/ carp and a hard, bony, much pitted endocarp (the quondong), are
all 3outh Australia can boast of. There is also a deficiency in eatable
root-bearing plants." There is one of which little notice has been
taken the muntree. It grows along the ground, and produces a berry
of a size somewhat smaller than that of the ordinary Barcelona nut.
The smell and taste are strong, and like that of an apple. It may be
found on the banks of the Inman and Hindmarsh rivers, on Yorkes
Peninsula, and in many other spots where sandy soil and moisture
exist. The shoot withers rapidly when separated from the parent plant.
One peculiarity of the eucalypti has not been noticed, and that is their
extraordinary vitality. As long as a strip of bark is continuous from the
ground up to the branches, the tree lives. Thus trees many feet in
diameter at and above the bole, hollowed out by the ravages of insects
or by fire, leaving cavities large enough to shelter several persons, live
and put forth their leaves as if nothing had ever occurred to inter-
fere with their growth. Dr. Schomburgk, however, points out that
when eucalypti trees die they begin to die from the topmost branches.
The leaves fall off, and nothing but dry twigs and sticks are left until the
end comes. The gum trees of all kinds are subject not only to the
attacks of insects which destroy them, but to the visitation of a vegeta
ble parasite called the mistletoe. It attaches itself to the branches and
hangs down in long pendulous vitiform bunches, and is not unlike the
mistletoe of the oak. When it attacks a tree the death of that tree is
only a question of time.
The sandalwood tree, which grows in abundance on Yorkes Penin-
sula, is short, but produces solid and strong wood. When freshly cut
down it has an agreeable odor, which lasts for a long time, but becoming
more and more faint as the trunk dries. It is useful for many purposes.
It also does duty as firewood. Those who have read in Eastern tales
about chambers being scented with burning sandalwood, and imagine
that a perfume of a pleasant nature must be the result, would be com-
pletely disillusioned by the combustion of our sandalwood. This wood
is known even in China as a deadly foe to mosquitoes. This is not SOT-
