136 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
trict includes 8 forests, 'containing 21,647 acres, the western district
has 10 forests, spread over 16,269 acres, and the southern district has
10 forests, with an area of 55,474 acres; altogether 215,369 acres. The
total area under operations in 1892 was 10,185 acres.
Young trees raised in the plantations are freely distributed, 372,1^2
having been spread over the colony in this way in 1890- 7 91, and
322,383 in 1891-' 92. At the present time there are close upon a mil-
lion of young trees available for distribution. The actual expenditure
of the department for the fourteen years ending in June, 1892, was
104,097, and the revenue derived from the sale of trees, posts, rail-
way sleepers, etc., amounted to 103,340. The small excess of 799
as expenditure over revenue during a term of sixteen years does not give
an indication of the value of the forests ' reserves and their contents.
Many thousands of posts for fencing purposes and sleepers for railway
construction have been supplied from the forest reserves, and the sup-
ply of available timber now growing in the forests is equal, without
further planting, to all the requirements which are likely to arise in
the colony for many years to come.
Many varieties of timber trees are grown in the plantations which
are suitable for purposes other than those of railway and fencing works.
Trees suitable for the manufacture of furniture and cabinet work of
different kinds are grown there in perfection. Among them may be
mentioned the American ash (Fraxinus Americana), which has suc-
ceeded beyond all expectation. Some of the trees were felled at the
early age of ten years, and the timber after drying, was made up into
various articles, such as buggy poles, tables, chairs, Indian clubs,
mallets for driving tent pegs, constables' staves, trapeze bars, wickets,
buggy naves, etc. Many of the samples were used for turnery, and in
every case the results were most satisfactory. The wood is reported
"to be unrivaled in toughness and adaptability for turning, as it
stands working to the very outside and to the smallest dimensions of
any timber without exhibiting any tendency to break off."
In 1891 "a consignment of the best American- grown ash was received
by Messrs. Marshall & Co., and their foreman, after comparing the
Australian -grown timber with it, unhesitatingly gave it as his opinion
that the Australian article was equal to the American or anything
received from any part of the world of the same kind of timber, being
a better color and tougher, and working up equal to satin wood, while
it never deadens from being polished, and always keeps its color."
The Pinus insignis has also been grown with the most satisfactory
results. It possesses the special merit of requiring less dressing with
the plane than any other deal, as a surface can be obtained much more
readily thereon. It takes a good polish, is very tough, and does not
split on exposure, which is a great advantage in connection with manu-
facturing purposes.
Mr. Gill, the conservator of forests, regards these results " as encour-
