AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 139
most felt, for, as the winter and spring rains cease, they become dry
and hot and unfavorable to the growth of many plants which belong
to cooler countries. On the hills almost all the fruits and vegetables
which grow in Europe and in the more temperate regions of Asia, as
well as many that are indigenous to Africa and America, thrive splen-
didiy. The productiveness of the colony depends to a very great
extent upon the rainfall, and that varies remarkably, not only in dif-
ferent localities but in different seasons. Thus the rainfall at Mount
Lofty, 8 miles south from Adelaide, in 1889, amounted to 67.010 inches;
in 1859 it was 32 inches. At Parallana, in the far north, in 1888, it was
1.710 inches, and in 1885 it had been 20.405. In some parts of the
north, such as Lake Frome, only 5 inches were recorded. The average
rainfall in the whole of the agricultural districts of south Australia,
from Melrose to Cape Northumberland, in 1890 was 20.646 inches, the
mean from previous years being 21.476. The highest total was in 1889,
when 30.874 inches were recorded at the Adelaide observatory; and
the lowest in 1876, when no more than 13.434 inches were noted at the
same place. It is somewhat strange that the heaviest rainfall known
in the colony should not have been followed by something approaching
to a corresponding increase in the harvest; yet, in 1863, with a rainfall
in Adelaide of less than 24 inches, the yield was nearly double that
which was secured in 1889, when the rainfall was nearly 31 inches.
This noticeable discrepancy, however, may be ascribed to causes not
altogether dependent on the actual quantity of rain that descends,
The time of the year at which the rains set in, their duration, the tem-
perature which immediately follows upon the rains when they continue
late and come down upon the verge of summer, and the early visita-
tion of north winds, which in the summer are hot, have their share in
influencing the quantity of the yield. Other circumstances, not
meteorological, have also their effect on the harvest.
The observations of the rainfall which occurs in the various parts of
the colony are recorded at 368 stations. At several of these the daily
range of the barometer and thermometer are noted, with all the partic-
ulars, which accurately describe the meteorological conditions of the
place. These are forwarded to the central station, where, under the
direction of C. Todd, esq., postmaster-general and government astron-
omer, they are collated, tabulated, and prepared for publication. By
means of the telegraph, which extends from Adelaide to the Indian
Ocean on the north, to Melbourne and Sydney on the east, almost to
the extreme north of Queensland on the northeast, and from Adelaide
to Northwest Cape in western Australia, the Government astronomer
is able to publish weather forecasts, which being generally reliable
are alike interesting and useful to the public, and are eagerly looked
for in the columns of the daily journals.
From this it will be seen that this colony (as well as the other colo-
nies whose meteorological records are collected and made up on the
