140 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
same system) is in a position to furnish daily accounts of meteorologi-
cal phenomena which occur over most of the continent that can be
regarded as authentic. The record of the rainfall dates back as far as
1839, when it was commenced by the late Sir George Kingston, formerly
speaker of the house of assembly, and who kept it up till within a
very short period of his death, in 1880. The record at the observatory
was commenced in 1856, since when its operations have been gradually
extended all over the province, so that its meteorological arrangements
are as complete as it has been possible to make them.
The postmaster-general and astronomer to the colony published in
1876 a paper which gave interesting particulars of the climatic pecu-
liarities of south Australia, as well as a detailed account of the observ-
atory and its appliances. Since the publication of that memoir the
climate of the colony has not sensibly changed. There have been
irregularities in the seasons, or rather irregularities in the special
phenomena of those seasons, especially of late years, which should, if
duly weighed by those who are interested in the culture of the land,
whether as fruit-growers, vignerons, market gardeners, or producers
of grain, largely influence the horticulture and agriculture of the
future.
In the memoir on the climate which has been referred to Mr. Todd
says:
The observations at the observatory satisfactorily represent the climate of the
plains for some distance north and south of Adelaide, but in the Mount Lofty
ranges, close by, the citizens can in an hour or two find a much lower temperature,
and twenty minutes by, railway will carry them to the invigorating breezes of the
gulf; and, except when kept back by strong easterly and northerly winds, the sea
breeze sets in soon after 10 a. m. and sweeps across the plains, tempering the heat
during what would otherwise be the hottest hours of the day.
The hottest months in the year are December, January, and February, when the
temperature on the plains frequently exceeds 100 in the shade. November and March
are also hot; but the nights, especially in the former month, are cooler, and the heat
is seldom of long duration, rarely reaching 100 in the shade, and, coming in suddenly
with a strong hot wind, is followed quickly by a change to cool, or even cold,
weather. A few hot days occasionally occur in October ; but, even in the hottest
months, especially in December, the weather is often broken by cloudy cold inter-
vals, with strong southwest winds, veering gradually to south and southeast. This
state of things will continue for several days, during which the wind from the south-
east will usually freshen towards sunset, a bank of cloud forming over the Mount
Lofty ranges, with cold nights, the temperature falling rapidly after sunset. The
duration of these southeastern winds appears to depend upon the weather on the
eastern coast, and the presence of the bank of cloud on the ranges, and the persist-
ence and force of the wind, often indicate gales and rain on the coasts of New South
Wales and Queensland, although the weather here may be fine and clear overhead.
As the easterly wind moderates it gradually hauls to the north, and alternate land
(easterly) and sea (southwesterly) breezes set in with fine weather, getting warmer
and warmer, till another spell of extreme heat is experienced. The heat is some-
times followed by rain, especially in the earlier part of the season, setting in with
the surface and light wind at northeast, but the upper current northwest. This is
usually presaged by aggregations of cirro-cumuli, which close up and form a bank
