AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOltUIGN MARKETS. 141
with a hard sharply- defined outline, gradually spreading over the sky, the clouds at
the same time increasing in density as they change their character, with scud form-
ing heneath. The rain increases as the wind veers to the northwest, and often
extends over a large area to the north and is sometimes accompanied with heavy
thunder and lightning, usually terminating with a gale from the southwest. The
same thing occurs in the winter; but the wind at that season hangs longer about the
west, often backing to the northwest, with heavy rain and wind. These are usually
our heaviest and most widely diffused falls, the rains from the southwest seldom
extending far inland.
The summer may be regarded as extending from October to March. After that
month the temperature falls rapidly, very rarely reaching 90 in the shade. * * *
The weather during April and a great part of May is simply perfection, and the same
applies to most of the winter and till the end of October. Although corresponding
to the autumn or early winter of Europe it is virtually spring, when vegetation^
refreshed by the first rains after the drought of summer, bursts into fresh life, and
the whole surface of the land is clad with verdure. Heavy rains frequently fall in
May, and the greatest downfalls usually occur in that mouth. The coldest months
are June, July, and August, but the mean temperature is not very low. The cold is
sometimes much felt in the winter months, because of the contrast it emphasizes
between the summer weather and the genial temperature which prevails in other
portions of the year. Frosts occasionally occur on the plains, and frequently on the
hills. Ice, perhaps a quarter of an inch thick, is occasionally noticeable in shallow
surface pools, but this rarely if ever survives an hour's sunshine.- Snow has some-
times fallen at Mount Lofty and on other high summits in the ranges, and at other
times a few miles north of Kooringa, which is 1,560 feet above the level of the sea.
Snow is, however, quite phenomenal in south Australia, and the drift does not
remain on the ground for more than an hour or two, whenever it does occur.
In writing on the subject of the course of the seasons and weather
forecasts, late Sir George Kingston gave the following as the results of
his observations extending over forty years :
The heaviest rain throughout the year may be expected with a wind at about
northeast, the rain commencing to fall gently and the wind light, both gradually
increasing as the latter veers around to the north, and thence to the north west, when
the violence of both wind and rain has much increased. After this the wind may be
expected to draw around to the west, when the rain generally ceases, or at least
rarely falls except in heavy squalls and showers, and the weather clears up. The
time occupied by a continuous fall of rain, as thus described, rarely amounts to
twelve hours. The wind will, however, frequently hang at about west, with a few
points of variation to the south and north for some days, during which period rain
occurs in showers if to the south, and more steadily in proportion to the northing of
the wind. The heaviest rains, assuming a tropical character, may be expected after
a hot northeast wind drawing round to the northwest, at which point an inch of
rain and upwards has often fallen within the hour, accompanied with heavy thunder
and lightning; or, as in October, 1854, the rain is represented by tremendous hail-
storms, the hail assuming the form of flat pieces of ice.
As regards the use of the barometer in forming a judgment on the weather to be
expected, I have to observe that the barometer invariably begins to fall with a north-
east wind, continuing to fall as the wind increases in violence and draws round by
the north, northwest, and westerly, at or about which point it reaches its lowest
figure. The barometer generally begins to rise with the least southing in the wind.
Now, although a low barometer thus agress with the heaviest fall of rain, it is
impossible to draw certain conclusions from it as to probability of rain or otherwise
unless, indeed, when the wind is violent, as then, even with every appearance 01
heavy cloudy weather, rain rarely occurs. Calm, murky weather, accompanied by
