142 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
a low state of the barometer, is the most favorable indication of rain. I have fre
quently seen the barometer at its lowest point (as observed by me), 29.3, blowing
hard, and accompanied by cloudy weather, when no rain has fallen; on the other
hand, I have known some of the steadiest and most copious rains to occur with the
barometer at 30.2 and falling, the wind light or nearly calm.
I may add that generally during fine weather a land and sea-breeze alternates
during the twenty-four hours. After sunset the wind generally blows from about
southeast to east, dying away about daylight, and a light southwest wind springs
up about 9 a. m., but, failing to do so, the land wind towards morning draws round
from east to northeast by north to northwest, and west towards the af ernoou;
and should it hang to the north of east, with a falling barometer, it is a certain pre-
cursor of a hot wind.
It may not be uninteresting to add here that, when Sydney was visited by tre-
mendous storms and floods from the 19th to the end of July, 1860, the weather here
was then usually fine for the time of the year; the barometer was, during all that
time, above 30 inches and very steady, oscillating slightly each day, its whole range
not exceeding 0.2; the wind was very light, from southeast to northeast and
northwest. I did not record a drop of rain all that time, an unprecedented event
at that period of the year.
The winds, according to Mr. Todd, during the summer tend generally on all sides
to the heated interior, which may be roughly described as a vast plain broken by a
few ranges, none of which are of any great size or magnitude; on the south coast,
the wind being southeast and south varied by occasional southwest gales following
a hot wind from the northeast and north, whilst further north and round the north
coast, the northwest monsoon for some months before and after the summer solstice
presses down south with varying force, often making itself felt as far south as the
Macdonnell ranges an the southern edge of the tropics in the center of the continent.
North of the Macdonnell ranges the winds during the summer season are variable,
southeast and northwest winds alternating with calms, and heavy electrical
storms with rain prevail with increasing intensity northwards to the coast. South
of the Macdonnell ranges southeast winds prevail during the greater part of the
year, but in the summer they are often influenced by the northwest tropical current,
and then veering to the northeast and north will sweep over south Australia as a
hot wind, the birthplace of which seems to be, speaking approximately, somewhere
about latitude 26. Our experience of the climate of the interior of Australia is as
yet but limited, but the stations on the great overland telegraph now furnish accu-
rate daily reports of the weather, direction of upper currents, and rainfall. These
reports show that the prevailing wind, except during the middle of summer, is south-
east.
In connection with Sir George Kingston's " weather forecasts," the
following observations from Mr. Todd may be read with interest:
I have long been of opinion that the southerly dip of the monsoon largely influences
the climate of South Australia proper, as well as that of Victoria. In seasons of
drought, or when the summer in the interior is dry, the northwest monsoon rains
thin off and rarely reach the center in occasional storms. But when the monsoon is
strong and blows well home, the tropical rains and thunder will stretch right across
the continent well into the northern country of South Australia to within about
200 or 300 miles of Adelaide, and occasionally these tropical rains will reach the
south coast. A wet season in the interior will probably coincide with a hot sum-
mer in South Australia and Victoria, whilst a cool summer in the latter, where strong
polar currents keep the temperature down and the southeast winds are powerful,
will denote or coincide with a dry summer in the interior and a weak northwest
monsoon. The winter rains of the south, it may be remarked, thin off at about 3
or 4 north of Adelaide, rarely penetrating to latitude 28, and summer rains are
