AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. ' 143
not to be depended upon far south of the tropics. Between those parallels is a
wide belt of 5 or 6 having an uncertain rainfall, subject to droughts, very
seldom getting rain during the winter, but mostly depending on summer thunder-
storms, the frequency and intensity of which, it is not improbable, may be found
closely to coincide with the magnetic cycle of eleven and a quarter years, which is
believed to determine the frequency of aurorae magnetic storms and solar spots.
This, of course, is conjectural, and is not to be accepted till proved by increased
experience.
From the foregoing a tolerably accurate conception of the South
Australian climate may be formed. There is one thing, however, which
deserves some notice here. In many published articles in newspapers
and magazines the hot winds of Australia, and especially of South
Australia, have been mentioned in highly colored terms. They have
been described as terrific, and have been dwelt upon as though the
climate of this province was somewhat worse than tropical. It is quite
true that hot winds are not pleasant; in fact, they are enervating, and
whilst they last are exceedingly exhausting to persons who are in a
feeble state of body ; but they seldom last for more than a few days, and
when the westerly breezes which succeed them set in, sometimes sud-
denly, all the bodily malaise which they may have caused quickly disap-
pears. They have, however, a most beneficial effect in purifying the
atmosphere. They destroy noxious germs which may float about in the
air, and otherwise do an immense amount of good. At the same time
their effect upon tender plants is severe, and all kinds of flowers and
shrubs which are not hardy or tolerably well protected from them droop
and shrink, and are slow to recover their strength until a much cooler
temperature prevails.
Even with the drawback of occasional hot winds, there is seldom
such severe heat in the summer as to prevent persons from following
their ordinary occupations out of doors. There are only forty-five days
in the year, taking the average of thirty-four years, 1857 to 1890, on which
the temperature rises above 90. The Government astronomer has noted
this fact, and states that this climate, " beautiful as it really is, afford-
ing as it does the great number of pleasant days on which outdoor
pursuits can be carried on with buoyancy of spirits is a wee bit dry, a
fact which vegetation on the plains in our summer season sufficiently
attests. The clearness or transparency of the atmosphere is some-
thing wonderful and owing to its dryness, except on hot wind days, it
is seldom oppressive unless one is lazy. Cricket matches are played
with the usual enthusiasm before crowds of spectators with the ther-
mometer ranging between 90 and 100 in the shade, and the writer has
ridden 50 miles in a day with the thermometer as high as 110 without
much inconvenience or distress; the secret of which is that these high
temperatures are always accompanied by such an extreme dryness of
the air that perspiration affords instantaneous relief. When a fierce hot
wind is blowing and the thermometer stands at perhaps something
over 100, the wet bulb thermometer stands at 65, and it is this which
