144 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
enables persons to bear the heat of summer and carry on their usual
pursuits with less inconvenience and discomfort than is felt in damp
climates, where the temperature may be 15 or 20 lower but nearly sat-
urated with aqueous vapors, as at Port Darwin, where during the
rainy season of the northwest monsoon the thermometer may stand at
only 88, whilst the wet bulb indicates 86. Such an atmosphere, we
need hardly say, is far more enervating than the hot and dry air of the
Adelaide plains. 77
One peculiarity of the Australian climate is the occurrence of drought.
Droughts are either general, that is to say, they affect the whole of the
Australian continent in a greater or less degree, or they are partial,
that is confined within limited areas. South Australia is probably
more subject to visitations of this kind than other portions of Australia,
owing, to some extent, to the absence of high mountain ranges in the
interior. The causes of these droughts have been very carefully inves-
tigated by the official heads of the meteorological departments in the
principal colonies, and as far as their observations have been extended
they are generally in accord upon the subject.
GENERAL, BUILDING.
General buildin g is at a standstill at present. Those houses now being
erected consist of a small class of residences of about four rooms, built
of stone, of which the majority of buildings are constructed.
The timber used in railroad building is grown locally, and is obtained
from South Australian Government forests, and consists chiefly of the
eucalyptus class.
EXTENSIONS OF LUMBER TRADE.
I can not offer any suggestion concerning the methods to increase
the lumber trade with this province, now already considerable.
CHAS. A. MURPHY,
ConsularAgent.
ADELAIDE, March 8, 1894.
TASMANIA.
NATIVE WOODS.
The principal native woods of Tasmania are the various species of
gum (Eucalypti), the myrtle (Fagus cunninghami), the Huon or Mae-
quarie Harbor pine (Bacrydiumfrariklinii}, and the blackwoodor light-
wood (Acacia melanoxylon).
The gum timber is all hard and dense. As a rule it shrinks con-
siderably, and warps and twists, and for interior work is used for floors
