AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 147
The following trees of the Eucalyptus tribe are the most important :
The red guin tree (Eucalyptus rostrata), the timber of which is one of
the most highly esteemed among the Eucalypti in all Australia, being
heavy, hard, strong, and extremely durable, either above or under
ground, or in water. For these reasons it is very much prized for fence
posts, piles, and railway sleepers. For the latter purpose it will last
at least a dozen years, and, if well selected, much longer. The late
commissioner of railways reported that sleepers were found quite
sound after being twenty-four years in use. It is not to be surpassed
in endurance for wood bricks in street paving and for tramways.
The blue gum tree (Eucalyptus globulus) furnishes a first- class wood.
Shipbuilders can get keels of the timber 120 feet long; besides this, it
is used for planking and many other parts of the ship. Experiments on
the strength of various woods, instituted by the Government botanist,
proved the wood of the blue guin tree, in an average of eleven tests,
to be about equal to the best English oak, American white oak, and
American ash. Blue guin wood is very extensively used by carpenters
for all kinds of outdoor work, joists and studs for wooden houses; also
for fence rails, telegraph poles, railway sleepers (lasting nine years or
more), for shafts and spokes of drays and a variety of other purposes.
The iron bark tree (Eucalyptus lencoxylon) furnishes a most valuable
timber, showing great strength and hardness, and much prized for its
durability. It is largely employed by wagon builders for wheels and
poles, and is also used by turners for rough work. It proved to be the
strongest of all the woods hitherto subjected to test by the Govern-
ment botanist, bearing nearly twice the strain of American oak and
ash, and excelling hickory by about 18 per cent. It is much recom-
mended for railway sleepers and extensively used in underground min-
ing work. It is likewise very extensively employed for the handles of
axes and other implements by Victorian manufacturers.
Besides the Eucalypti, the evergreen beech (fagus Cunninghami) and
blackwood (acacia melanoxylon) are the most important timber trees,
the latter especially being found admirably adapted for the manufacture
of railway carriages; also for furniture, which is almost indistinguish-
able from that made of the best walnut.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
In consequence of the native woods being hard, and therefore not
easily worked, it is necessary to import almost all the timber required
for building purposes.
