AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 149
Doors, skirtings, and moldings are charged heavy duties, intended
to be prohibitory.
The following descriptions are free of duty: Clear pine, sugar pine,
California redwood, undressed, linch thick and over; ash, oak, hick-
ory, walnut, whitewood, and sycamore, undressed; Baltic red and
white deals, 7 by 2J and upwards; Australian and New Zealand pines
of all sizes, undressed.
The duty on Oregon fir, 7 by 2J and over, was first imposed on July 29,
1892, and at the same time the duty already existing on sizes under 7
by 2 J was doubled, both at the instance of the local hard- wood dealers,
who contended that Oregon unduly interfered with their product.
PRICES.
The market price of American timber is slightly better at present
than during the past two years, and is as follows: Oregon, new stock,
$25.54 to $26.76; old stock, $21.89 to $23.11; redwood, $35.37 to $36.49;
sugar pine, $53.53 to $58.39.
I am informed that the stock of Oregon held by trade hands is very
large, and owing to the small demand for timber of all descriptions the
reducing process proceeds very slowly.
PUBLIC BUILDING.
Eailroad building is practically at a standstill for want of available
funds, and, except in station buildings, no imported timber is used in
railway construction.
Shipbuilding is not an industry in this colony; a few vessels have
been built of iron, and barges, etc., for the harbor trust, but exclu-
sively of local woods.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
The merits of Oregon timber, for which a decided preference is
shown, are fully recognized by the people here, and the demand for it
is commensurate with the building being carried on.
The result of my interviews with the timber merchants of this city,
as to what manner the lumber exports from the United States to this
colony may be increased, is, therefore, that the return of brighter times,
which is confidently expected in the near future, must be awaited before
the demand for American lumber can be increased.
DANIEL W. MARATTA,
Consul- General.
MELBOURNE, March 1, 1894.
