EUROPE
AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.
NATIVE VS. AMERICAN WOODS.
From the very best information I can gather, this country is not quite
yet ready to use American lumber to any great extent. The American
lumber exporters should realize that here in Europe their only com-
petitors, especially for German, French, and Italian consumption, are
the Austro Hungarian lumber dealers.
Up to the present time, nearly all of the staves used for wine in
France and Italy, passed through the hands of the Austrian merchants,
and the same can be said of those used in the breweries of Germany.
The forests remaining in Austria proper, are nearly all used up, and it
is from the Hungarian portion of this empire that most of the lumber is
exported. The Hungarian forests are mainly owned by the Govern-
ment, and city and village communes.
About three years ago, the Government, which controls the cutting
of forests in Hungary, curtailed the number of trees to be felled, so that
at their annual sales less lumber was offered than was required for
home and export wants. Some well informed parties maintain that
this was a ruinous policy to pursue, as it not only fictitiously advanced
the value of lumber in Austria, but it compelled lumber dealers to look
elsewhere for a good portion of their wants, thus hastening the intro-
duction of foreign lumber, which might have been delayed some ten or
twenty years.
At the same time when this happened, many breweries were being
started in Germany and the demand for staves in Italy and France was
unusually great. Since then the prices of lumber have fallen. This is
undoubtedly due to a lesser demand, and to the introduction of Amer-
ican lumber.
"To sum up the matter," as a very well informed lumber dealer
explained : "We do not fear the United States for consumption for the
next thirty or forty years; we have also enough oak in this empire to
carry on a large export trade for ten years to come. At the end of
this time our supply will be so reduced that it will be impossible for us
to compete with the United States in foreign markets. The only way
150
