154 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
districts. Most of the timber comes from Boehmerwald, which is in
southwestern Bohemia, and the remainder from the mountain regions in
the northeast and narthwest of Bohemia. It is brought down on the riv-
ers Elbe and Moldau and their tributaries. Bohemia exports considera-
ble timber to Dresden, Leipsic, and Magdeburg, and certain quantities of
logs are yearly sent to Hamburg for shipbuilding. A good deal of the
lumber goes to Austria proper, and to southern Germany, mainly to
Nuremberg and Mayence. The transmission of timber and logs to
Germany is done on the river Elbe, except that to south Germany,
which is forwarded by railway.
Some lumber is brought into Bohemia from Galicia, which import is
explained as follows: A number of Bohemian capitalists own large
tracts of timber land, with sawmills thereon, in Galicia, and the demand
for lumber there is very limited, consequently it is forwarded to Bohe-
mia, where it finds a ready market and better prices.
Then again, the Galician Government sells yearly at public auction
certain lots of standing timber with the proviso that it must be manufac-
tured into lumber in that country. Such lots of timber are generally
purchased by Bohemian dealers at low prices. Besides, the labor in
Galicia is cheaper than in Bohemia, and they thus acquire cheap lum-
ber, which they bring to their Bohemian lumber yards.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
There is no lumber imported from the United States into Bohemia
direct. Some American black walnut is used here, mainly for veneer-
ing, but this is imported from Hamburg. I have visited a lumber firm
in this city that advertises American lumber for sale and inquired
what kind and how much they handle, and whether they import it
directly, etc. The information I have received was that recently they
bought a carload of American black walnut and pitch pine from Ham-
burg for a trial, but were unable to say how it was going to sell. It is
said that in Prague some years ago American walnut sold cheaper than
the Tyrolean walnut, but now it is the other way. The trouble with
the American lumber seems to be that its price is too high when it
reaches here in consequence of its indirect importation. It is bought
from middlemen either at Hamburg or Bremen, and in that way it
passes probably through three or four hands before it reaches the con-
sumer. It is admitted by the lumber dealers here that the market for
American lumber in Bohemia alone is not large enough to warrant
American lumber dealers profitable shipments. Still, I am of the opin-
ion that a good market could be opened for American lumber, such as
black walnut, elm, and others that are not produced here, by estab-
lishing an agency at Prague that would extend to the Empire of Aus-
tria-Hungary. The demand would be sufficient to warrant large ship-
