156
AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
CLIMATE.
The climate of Bohemia is humid and salubrious. The range of the
thermometer is given as follows (Fahrenheit) :
January 28
February 32
March 38
April 50
May 60
June 69
July 69
August 69
September 62
October 50
November .__.. 41
December 30
Average 50
The longest day in the year is sixteen hours ten minutes. The pre-
vailing winds are northeast and east in April, north in May, northwest
in June, west and southwest in July and August, east in September,
southeast in November, and southwest in December. The east and
northwest winds bring clouds and dampness.
GENERAL BUILDING.
The dwellings, business and farm houses are generally built of brick
or stone, and so are all other constructions. Very little wood building
is carried on in Bohemia.
There are no ships built in this district. Canal-boats are built at
Budweis and Worlik on the river Moldau. They are very lightly con-
structed, serving simply for one trip down the stream. On their arrival
in Hamburg or Bremen, they are sold either in whole or broken up, part
sold for lumber and the rest for firewood. I was informed that there is
very little freight carried back from the seaports to Bohemia, and that
it would not pay to tow the empty canal-boats back against the stream,
consequently they are disposed of as .stated. About 30 of such canal-
boats are constructed yearly at the above-named places.
The construction of new lines of railroad in Bohemia is now very
limited, only short branch lines being built here and there. Most of
the ties made here are used for replacements, and the yearly consump-
tion averages about 10,000,000. The ties are of pine or oak. They are
8 feet long, 5 inches thick, and 7 inches wide.
The price of pine ties is from 40 to 49 cents, and of oak 81 cents each.
The pine ties before they are used are impregnated with a preparation
of sulphuric acid in such way that the fluid is forced into every pore of
the tie, which is afterwards covered with tar. So prepared, they last
on the track from six to seven years.
JOHN KAREL,
Consul.
PRAGVE, January 31, 1894.
