158 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
is of extraordinary quality and dimensions, makes successful competition with Vhe
Slavonian wainscoting. Last year it happened for the first time that more than 30
per cent of the Slavonian wainscoting production remained unsold, and had to be
8 tored by the owners, partly on the docks in England and partly in Fiume, and
consequently the effects are already felt. In former years the wainscoting was
immediately sold at the annual forest sales after the timber had been bought from
the Government. It formed the quasi basis of the forest acquisitions, because in
that way the money was returned the quickest, but this year there are still several
lots unsold.
It is a well-known fact that our country has, during the last thirty years, experi-
enced many surprises from the United States. Not only have American grain, bacon,
and lard caused depression in our agricultural products, but in wood we have also
felt the burden of American competition, which is known, so far, only to initiated
circles. It is true that this competition concerned one kind of wood, which does
not play such a part in the world's market as does our oak wood; we mean the great
depression, about fifteen years ago, in the value of larch wood. From 1870 to 1880
the Carinthian larch wood was very much sought after and sold as dear as oak. For
certain purposes preference was given to it. The Imperial and Royal arsenal at Pol a
used great quantities of it annually until the American pitch pine made its appear-
ance and crowded out the larch wood not only from the world's market but from our
home market. The arsenal in Pola has been importing for many years American
pitch pine, which is superior in quality to larch, besides being sold in huge dimen-
sions and, according to our ideas, at extremely low prices.
The price of larchwood fell continually and the high-priced forest tracts covered
with larch timber in Carinthia have been so reduced in value that they are almost
down to the level of the common pine- wood forests, while formerly they were valued
five times as high, and even more. And now the United States appear very quietly
in the world's markets as a competitor with our oak, which causes great uneasiness
among our home oak trade.
*******
In consequence of the low price of land in the United States ; the fact that no labor
has been expended in forest production; the highly developed means of communica-
tion, waterways extending everywhere, which are the cheapest means of transporta-
tion, etc., the Americans have great advantages over us; therefore, it is evident that
this competition has all the qualifications of becoming a great danger to our oak- wood
export. This danger, on account of the extraordinary spirit of enterprise of the
American people and their unlimited individual liberty, is no longer theoretical but
actually confronts us. One Vienna firm dealing in German coopers' wood followed
carefully the transaction of the American oak-wood workers. A member of that
firm made a trip to the United States for that purpose. This firm took along 400
skillful and able wood-cutters from our maritime country. These men worked, at
what was there considered the very low price of $1.50 to $2 per day, the most choice
and magnificent oak timber in great quantities.
Another Vienna firm sent a representative to the United States for the purpose of
studying the oak-wood exploitation there. A Buda-Pesth house is on the point of
doing the same. All this is certainly praiseworthy, but what can a single individual
accomplish in such case? It would be advisable for all the Austrian and Hungarian
firms dealing in oak wood to unite and send an expedition on a large scale to the
United States for the purpose of studying minutely this dangerous competition.
The money question for such expedition would hardly be any obstacle, and assist-
ance from the Government, in the form of recommendations to the Austro-Hunga-
rian consuls in the United States, would not be wanting. If only a part of what is
said of this American competition is true the same fate which met our larch wood
will meet our oak. It is therefore for the interest of all the dealers in oak, and
especially for the Hungarian State, because it owns the largest oak forests, to fit out
such an expedition without delay.
