AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS, 159
FRANCE.
BORDEAUX.
NATIVE WOODS.
The woods found in this vicinity are oak, chestnut, walnut, poplar,
maple, apple, acacia, fir, cedar, buttonwood, and horse chestnut. There
are no trees growing in this latitude of uncommon variety. Towards
the south in the vicinity of Nice and along the littoral of the Mediter-
ranean, are to be found certain tropical plants. These, however, serve
for decorative purposes only.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
In the vicinity of Bordeaux are found numerous pine forests. Great
quantities of hewn pine are used as supports in coal mines in France,
but very little is used for building purposes. The greater part of the
lumber employed for building in this, and possibly in other parts of
France, is imported from Germany, Austria, Italy, Belgium, Switzer-
land, Koumania, and Turkey. Norway and Sweden are also important
shippers of wood to France.
IMPORTS.
In 1857 the importation of lumber into France for building purposes
was valued at 9,151,000 francs; in 1876, at 41,978 francs; and in 1889, at
34,824,4^6 francs. Great quantities of fir come from Norway and
Sweden, and oak from Russia. The city of Bordeaux is a very import-
ant port in the lumber trade.
DUTY AND PRICES.
%
The duty charged on lumber per 210.46 pounds, is as follows:
Unsawn, 19.3 cents; sawn, thirty one-hundredths inch thick or over,
29.9 cents; sawn, less than thirty one-hundredths inch, 33.8 cents.
The price of lumber varies to such an extent in this market that it
would be almost impossible to give any definite figures. It is certain,
however, that the United States with its boundless forests and facili-
ties for working up and transporting lumber would find an excellent
market in this city. As a proof at hand, I may state that there are
already one or two houses selling no inconsiderable quantities of lum-
ber from the United States ; and for the "benefit of exporters, I attach
hereto a list of lumber merchants who I think would be prepared to
handle the American article.
