AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 161
Lumber dealers in Bordeaux Continued.
Name.
Address.
Plantey
Purpan.
Redon . .
Reynaud fils & Dumont
Saint-Martin
Speii & Van Santen
Talbart Duclos
T^tard
Vigi^r
Viguier
Westerhuus
Quai de Queyries, 64-65.
Rue Lagrange, 147.
Rue Lagrange, 99.
Rue Calve, 43-45.
Rue d'Ornano, 145.
Cours d'Albret, 103.
Rue du Parlement St. Catherine, 18.
Quai Deschamps, 32.
Cours Journu-Auber, 44.
Ruai de Queyries, 80 a 83 (La Bastide).
Quai des Chartrons, 110.
J. M. WILEY,
Consul.
BORDEAUX, May 19,1894.
MARSEILLES.
NATIYE WOODS.
France does not consume for house-building purposes proportionately
tlie same amount of lumber as is used in the United States, but never-
theless her native woods by no means supply the quantity annually
demanded. Dwelling houses of every degree, and indeed structures
for whatever purpose intended, are in the main built of stone or, at
least in the construction of walls, of broken stone and brick and cement,
leaving an outer surface with an appearance as nearly as possible simi-
lar to sandstone. Even in the matter of flooring, particularly in south-
ern France, while hard and soft wood are to some extent employed,
the material generally liked and usually employed is the red hex-
agonal tile, common to southern countries. Joists, doors, casings, and,
as above stated, some flooring are of wood.
The native woods are walnut, white oak, evergreen oak, eucalyptus,
olivewood, some pine, and Corsican boxwood. The characteristic
features of these are, of course, generally known, excepting as to the
eucalyptus, a detailed report on which was recently sent from this con-
sulate to the Department.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
The lumber usually employed in building operations is pine, most of
which is imported from Russia and Sweden. For the making of furni-
ture, an industry of great proportions at Marseilles, the woods preferred
are American, Circassian, and French walnut, rosewood, mahogany,
maple, whitewood, thuya, and boxwood.
665A 11
