AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 165
there business can be secured. Transportation rates by these vessels
has been reduced to such figures that the cost of shipment of lumber
from New York, or Savannah, or Pensacola to Marseilles and Toulon,
unlike formerly when it was the chief item of expense, is now often less
than that of transportation to the seaboard. The great difficulty in the
way of enlarging the American lumber trade here, and this unfortunate
impediment operates in the same manner with reference to American
commodities in general, is not that the market is lacking or in any
sense unwilling, but that there is a complete misunderstanding in the
United States of French business methods and habits, an error which
often goes so far as to seriously undertake to convert the French system
to American, rather than take advantage of situations as they are
found. It should not matter to an American that a Frenchman prefers
to weigh his wheat by old-fashioned "steelyards" rather than by the
carload in transit, moving at the rate of 20 miles an hour. And if he
prefers to buy wheat to-day at a fixed price at so much per bushel to be
delivered six months or a year hence, and is naturally skeptical of a
commercial system wherein the values of commodities in six months or
a year depend, not on supply and demand, but on the influence of
"corners" and "deals," we have only ourselves to blame that the
Eussian merchant, appreciating the situation, has well-nigh driven our
wheat from this market by taking advantage of this dissatisfaction
with the ups and downs of Chicago and New York boards of trade.
The Jdessa dealer sends a French-speaking agent to Marseilles with
instructions to sell wheat under the conditions prevailing in France,
not by the trade rules in vogue in Eussia. And in the same manner
the Eussian and Swedish lumber merchants come in person, learn the
situation, and make contract with the people in their own language.
The American, on the contrary, writes to his consul for the names of
people dealing in particular lines of goods. The names are sent, and
the American merchant writes a letter in English, inclosing a price list
beginning : " We quote, etc., so much per ft. f. o. b.," as if expecting the
Frenchman to learn English, and then master the intricacies of Ameri-
can trade abbreviations.
In a word, there is a large field here for American lumber exports.
Pine, poplar, and oak are used in certain features of housebuilding
referred to herein. The manufacture of furniture is an enormous indus-
try, and American walnut is highly appreciated and wanted for the
purpose. In a great manufacturing city like this, there are hundreds
of uses for which all sorts of lumber are required, but which can not
be enumerated here. At Toulon are situated the great shipbuilding
concerns of the French Government, and the bulk of imported material
should come from the United States.
To secure these markets American dealers should send here repre
sentatives who speak the language, with instructions to study the bus-
iness system of the people, and to sell in accord with it rather than
endeavor to bring the French to our way of thinking. Letters in Eng-
