170 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
are planted and grown under the admirable forestry system of Ger-
many, which has been described in detail in previous consular reports.*
There are no longer any primitive forests of any consequence in this
country, but the forestry laws, which make the State the guardian of
its woodlands, has been so effective that the supply of all woods,
except oak (a slow grower), is steadily maintained, and the German
wood-pulp makers are able to use native, artificially-planted timber,
and sell their product in countries which have the advantage of primeval
forests. Through the cession of Alsace-Lorraine in 1870-71, Germany
acquired one-fifth of all the woodlands of France, and obtained thereby
a vast supply of valuable timber. Of the above mentioned varieties
the most rapid grower is the silver poplar, which in good situations
attains at an age of 20 years a diameter of from 20 to 24 inches.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
The principal kinds of lumber used are the following: Oak for floor-
ing, parquetry, doors, window casings, stairways, and the general
interior finishing of the best class of buildings, also for furniture and
the wooden parts of agricultural and other machinery.
Ash for flooring, paneled wainscoting, for railway and street cars,
machine frames, the handles of agricultural utensils, and for the cheaper
grades of dining and chamber furniture.
Walnut for furniture and cabinetwork, the same as in the United
States. The white walnut of Germany, although artificially planted,
is plentiful and cheap, but as a cabinet wood it is far inferior in beauty
and richness to the black walnut wood of the United States. The latter
is imported in considerable quantities for furniture, organ cases, and
tables for sewing machines and typewriters, which acquire thereby the
appearance of American origin.
Florida cedar is imported for the manufacture of lead pencils and
penholders. Of late years the cheaper grades of pencils and pen-
holders have been made in Germany from California and Oregon red-
wood, but these are specialties which employ only a limited quantity of
material.
Pitch pine from the Carolinas was used here in past years for window
sash and for cottage furniture, but it is said to shrink after manufacture
so as to make bad joints, and so far as can be ascertained it is no longer
used to any important extent.
Poplar is used for many kinds of boxes and packing cases, as well
as for certain parts of cars and carriages where lightness is especially
desirable.
Eailway ties are made of oak, beech, and fir, but at the present low
prices of metal wooden ties are being gradually replaced by ties of
* Special Consular Beports Forestry in Europe, 1887.
