AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 175
4,000 pounds per 1,000 feet. The duty would be 20 cents per 100 kilos,
or about $3.63 per 1,000 feet. Eussian oak is imported and sold by the
Handelsgeschaft at Berlin, and in order to meet this double competi-
tion American oak lumber would have to be lauded at Eotterdam or
Antwerp for about $45 per 1,000, freight to destination and German
import duty being additional and subsequently paid by the commission
merchant or importing consumer. Ash lumber will have to be similarly
landed for from $35 to $40 per 1,000 feet. Veneerings of bird's-eye
maple or fine walnut and red birch have also been imported to some
extent and are much liked, but the high duty, $11.90 per ton, renders
them rather expensive.
There is also a steady and growing demand for American oak staves
of the sizes from 4 to 10 feet in length, which are used by coopers in
the wine districts along the Ehine and the Moselle, as well as in Baden
and Wiirtemberg. It is worthy of note that such staves for the Ger-
man market should be somewhat thicker than those of similar lengths
used at home. This is for the reason that European oak is less tough
and strong than American, and the coopers here have become accus-
tomed to thicknesses which Americans have found to be dispropor-
tionate and unnecessary. The German coopers are, however, confirmed
in their notions, and it will be well to concede half an inch of extra
thickness to this prejudice. Dressed staves of smaller sizes, in which
the item of labor forms a large part of the cost of production, can
apparently be made as cheaply in Germany as in the United States.
Carriage lumber, hubs, spokes, felloes, etc., are importedfrom our coun-
try to some extent, but mainly by parties in Berlin, who keep a large
stock and send traveling salesmen to sell supplies to carriage-builders,
who in case of large purchases frequently go or send a competent fore-
man to Berlin, where the wood is selected, piece by piece. It is quite
probable that a capable agent or local commission merchant in southern
Germany could establish direct relations between American exporters
and the principal carriage-makers in this section, but it would be
necessary to send only selected wood, every piece of which is up to
standard, for any defect in quality would be detected and soon break
up a direct trade with consumers.
For the development and maintenance of direct exports of American
lumber of any kind to western Germany, no agency would be so effec-
tive as an energetic, clever salesman, familiar with the German lan-
guage and local methods of business, equipped with samples and
authorized to receive trial orders from dealers and consumers under
specified guaranties and conditions. If prices and qualities were found
satisfactory, a trade could soon be established that would in the end
take care of itself. If the sending of such agents is not found feasi-
ble, the next best method would be to enlist the services of local com-
mission merchants, who should be authorized to make sales on the
terms of payment that are offered by dealers who sell native or imported
European woods. Exporters who may wish to open correspondence
