AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 179
GENERAL BUILDING.
Considerable house, ship, and railroad building is carried on in this
district, and in this respect I would refer to the enormous growth
of the cities of Hamburg, Alton a, and Kiel, the new North Sea and
Baltic Canal, with its many locks, bridges, and railways, and to the
shipbuilding yards of Hamburg, Kiel, Ltibeck, Mensburg, and Eos-
tock.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
I find that the general opinion of those engaged in the importation
of lumber from the United States is that the American dealers do not
pay sufficient attention to the desires and wishes of the German
importers ; that they very often ship qualities inferior to those ordered,
and are inclined to class as prime what the German dealer would call
only medium lumber.
In order to extend the lumber trade of the United States the ship-
ments of inferior lumber must be stopped, as far as practicable, so as to
allow prices to recuperate. At the close of 1892 the stock of walnut
logs in Hamburg was 1,400 ; at the close of 1893 it was 10,000. This is
sufficient to supply the demand for some time to come. Notwithstand-
ing this overstocking of the market, I am told that prime walnut logs
are always salable at fair prices, the larger the logs the better the
prices. Small logs are difficult to get rid of.
The low freights at which small sailing vessels carry lumber, and
especially sleepers, from Sweden to the North German ports, almost
preclude the competition of countries as far distant as ours.
CHAS. H. BURKE,
Vice and Acting Consul.
HAMBURG, February 7, 1894.
NORWAY.
NATIVE WOODS.
Southeastern Norway, where this consulate is located, was formerly
well covered with natural forests. Lumber has, consequently, for sev-
eral centuries past been a staple export. Norway, as a whole, is still
well wooded, and it is estimated that 77,000 square kilometers (24 per
cent) of the superficies of the country are still covered with forests.
But they have gradually become very thin in many districts, especially
on the high mountains and in marshy places. In the western districts,
along the extensive seacoast, the forests have now disappeared alto-
gether, and the only woods left are at the inner extremity of the deep
and narrow fjords, sometimes over 100 miles from the open sea.
