182 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
CLIMATE.
This district lies between the fifty-eighth and the sixty- second and
one-half degrees north latitude, and is bounded on the south by the
Skager-Rack and sheltered from the sea by numerous small islands scat-
tered along the coast and extending to the Swedish border. On the
northeast and west it is surrounded by chains of high mountains, some
of which rise to over 8,000 feet. The yearly mean temperature on the
coast is between 42 and 44 F., but declines to 41 in this city, which
is situated at the head of the long Christiania Fjord and has more of
an inland climate.
While the winters are generally mild on the coast, where the ther-
mometer has never gone below 5 above zero, in Ohristiania the mer-
cury has sometimes fallen to 22 below zero, and in the northern section
of this district it is often as low as 40. But the cold waves are seldom
of long duration.
The greatest heat and cold are found in the inland districts, while
on the coasts the winters are mild and the summers cool. The mean
temperature of the coast within this district is given for the month of
July as between 57 and 63 F. In this city the summer heat some-
times rises to 90 F.
The difference noted in atmospheric temperature between the inland
district and the coast, also applies to the dampness of the air. The
average humidity on the coast is, as a rule, much greater than farther
up in the country. Everywhere the greatest humidity prevails during
the winter, and the month of May is marked by great dryness. The
amount of annual rain at Ghristiania is only 0.5 meter to 2 meters at
Bergen on the western coast, and it falls even to 33 centimeters on the
mountains to the north of this district. Heavy fogs often occur here
in winter. Neither wind nor rain is of great force or duration in this
district. Thunderstorms are of rare occurrence in this section of Nor-
way.
GENERAL BUILDING.
Wood is generally used for housebuilding, owing to its abundance
and cheapness, even in cities of some importance. In the principal
cities, however, Christiania, Bergen, and Drontheim, there are great
restrictions laid on its use and brick houses are now the rule. The
material used in the interior of dwelling houses, as for floors, stair-
cases, window casings, etc., continues to be wood. The roofs are
generally covered with tiles, and, lately, in the cities also with slate.
Shipbuilding has from time immemorial been one of the principal
industries of this country, and the interesting copy of the ancient
Viking ship of a thousand years ago, which was lately sailed over
from Norway to the World's Fair at Chicago, bears witness to the
great skill of the old Norse shipbuilders. At the end of 1892 the
Norwegian merchant marine numbered 7,506 vessels, of an aggregate
