AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 187
structures are the general rule. There is a reasonable amount of gen-
eral improvement in Turkey, but very little shipbuilding and but few
railroads are being built. The railroads already completed are substi-
tuting iron for wooden ties.
TRADE OUTLOOK.
The prospects are not flattering for the extension of the sale of Amer-
ican lumber in this district, owing to prices and want of shipping facil-
ities, yet with a proper effort it might be made successful. Architects
with whom I have conversed, are of the opinion that American lumber,
owing to its uniformity, thereby saving labor, would be eagerly sought
after by the builders if once introduced in this market.
Owing to the prejudice against innovation in the lumber business
and the suspicion with which the native dealers look upon all foreign-
ers, together with the peculiar mode of selling by the piece, it has been
with the greatest difficulty that I have obtained sufficient reliable infor-
mation for this report.
LUTHER SHORT,
Consul- General.
CONSTANTINOPLE, April 26, 1894.
UNITED KINGDOM.
BIRMINGHAM.
NATIVE WOODS.
The native woods of England are oak, elm, ash, beech, poplar, fir,
walnut, chestnut, plane, holly, sycamore, hawthorne, birch, pine, lime,
willow, box, larch, maple, cherry, yew, aspen, and hazel.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
Timber is used chiefly in building and fencing, for shipbuilding,
wagon and carriage making, and the manufacture of furniture.
In building, oak is used for the better classes of work, such as stair-
cases, window sills, doors, lintels, joists, beams, etc. It was formerly
used largely for floors and wainscoting. Elm is used for purposes
which are to bear extreme wet and dryness, such as water mills, water-
works pipes, pumps, and coffins. Ash is used for spear handles, carts ?
wheelbarrows, plows, harrows, axletrees, and oars. Beech is used for
many kinds of furniture, such as chairs, stools, and bedsteads. Poplar
is used for all sorts of white wooden vessels, and being very light, soles
and heels for shoes. Willow is used for basket making. Holly is a
very hard white wood with a close grain, and is used for dressing boxes
