192 AMERICAN LUMBER IN ^FOREIGN MARKETS.
lumber prices include costs, freight and insurance; free on board in
Canadian ports, freight to Dundee, $10.94 per standard; American
prices include costs, freight, and insurance.
CLIMATE.
The climate of the east coast of Scotland is equable, and, generally
speaking, drier than that of the west coast, the average annual rain-
fall in this district for the past ten years being 26.05 inches. No extreme
variations in temperature mark the climate. In the year 1893 the high-
est reading of the thermometer in the shade was 86, registered on
June 18, while the lowest was 19, on January 6. The average tem-
perature in summer is about 60 and in winter 39.
GENERAL BUILDING.
There are three shipbuilding yards in Dundee, from which there were
five launches during 1893, viz, three ships, a bark, and a barge, the
gross tonnage being 6,340. This was, however, a very bad year for the
trade, the gross tonnage for the year 1892 being 21,990. The prospects
at present, however, are brighter, and during the first two months of
this year orders for five vessels, representing a gross tonnage of 6,661
tons, have been secured, so that it may be counted on that a much
larger amount of timber will be used in this industry than during the
past year.
JOHN M. SAVAGE,
Consul.
DUNDEE, April 20, 1894.
FALMOUTH.
NATIVE WOODS.
The supply of native woods, elm and ash, chiefly, is about equal to
the demand. It appears, however, that landowners are neglecting to
plant as fast as the timber is cut, especially on the duchy properties,
where plantations and woods have been cleared and none planted on land
that is useless for other purposes and where good ash and elm can be
grown. Others are planting larch fir, which makes rapid growth here.
Besides the elm, ash, and fir, oak, beech, chestnut, and poplar grow here.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
The principal kinds of foreign lumber used are red and white fir from
Norway and Sweden ; yellow, red, and pitch pine, oak, spruce, mahog-
any, hickory, ash, walnut, birch, and elm from America, and mahogany
irom Africa. Other woods not so generally used are teak, maple, cedar,
lignum- vitse, rosewood, American whitewood, Oregon pine, kaurie
pine, and greenheart.
