AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 199
There is a great deal of fog both in summer and winter, and a per-
ceptible dampness most of the time.
GENERAL BUILDING.
General building of stores and dwellings for the last year has been
up to the average. The city is growing rapidly, and many new build-
ings are in process of erection.
One of the great industries of Glasgow and vicinity is shipbuilding.
This industry has been depressed for the last few years, and for the last
year the depression has increased. It is stated by a careful compiler
that the outlook for building on the Clyde is about the same for 1894
as it was in the beginning of the season for 1893.
With the contracts lately secured and the vessels now on the stocks
the tonnage on hand is estimated at 188,000, compared with 208,000
January 1, 1893, 274,000 January 1, 1892, 297,000 January 1, 1891,
and 322,000 January 1, 1890.
There is some railway building going on in western Scotland. An
extensive subway for tram cars has been in process of construction
under Glasgow for the past two years. The cars will probably be pro-
pelled by a stationary motor.
The Caledonian Eailway is also building a branch about 20 miles
in length, a portion of it running underground beneath this city. A
railroad is also under process of construction into the western High-
lands from Helensburg, opposite Greenock, to Fort William, about 75
miles in length.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
There is complaint made generally by lumber importers here that
exporters from America the exporters of British possessions as well
as the United States do not send lumber of the quality promised
before shipment or up to the standard upon which advances to ship-
pers are made. All shipments should be fully up to the samples shown
or promises made as to the quality.
Importers here are afraid to deal with new men or to enlarge their
orders beyond old and tried firms with whom they have had dealings
and whose honesty they have proved.
American lumber has no serious competitor except some kauri pine
from New Zealand, and that not in large quantities, but of very super-
ior quality, so the contest for the Clyde markets lies in reality between
British North America and the United States. It may be that the
former has a larger supply of first-class pine from which to send its
product abroad ; and it has also another advantage in that its people
are of the same nation as Scotland, for Canada is largely peopled by
Scotchmen. A third advantage to Canada is our want of American
bottoms in which to convey our lumber.
