200 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
Still, as far as spool wood, staves, and white pine are concerned, the
preference among dealers here is for the timber of the United States,
and in oak, maple, ash, and white wood we now have the lead.
If our dealers will make renewed efforts to enlarge their trade with
the western coast of Scotland and will always send a quality of lum-
ber up to the standard of the orders given, I think our trade can be
materially increased and very speedily.
Depending upon America for her principal lumber depot from which
to draw supplies, Scotland furnishes an inviting field for the enter-
prise of our lumber exporters, and I am satisfied that, with the proper
energy and with honorable dealing, our people ought to hold their
own, at least, with Canada in the lumber markets here.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
I am much indebted in the preparation of this report as to prices
of lumber and stocks on hand, as well as other items in relation to the
lumber trade, to Messrs. Edmiston and Mitchells and Allison Cousland
& Co., lumber importers of Glasgow.
ALLEN B. MORSE,
Consul.
GLASGOW, January 18, 1894.
HULL.
NATIVE WOODS.
The district within my official observation is not a wooded country,
and yields but little timber. The land for the most part, especially in
the Holderness division of Yorkshire, lies very low, and is not very
favorable to the growth of timber. In and around Hull there is much
humidity in the atmosphere, and the whole district is much exposed to
the northeast winds.
With regard to native woods, the only timber that seriously com-
petes with America is the English oak, which is considered to be of a
hardness and durability superior to any other, unless it be the Ameri-
can live oak, which, however, is never seen here except as a sample.
KIND OF LUMBER USED.
The kind of lumber from the United States which is most in use in
England is pitch pine. It is extremely resinous and hard. It is used
for piles and in building, but not to any great extent. Pitch pine,
although more durable without creosote than Baltic wood, does not
take creosote so well. This is attributable to the quantity of resin in
pitch pine, which has what local experts call "more nature in it" than
Baltic timber.
