AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 201
American oak is largely used in the construction of railway car-
riages, and is chiefly cut into scantlings.
Oregon timber is chiefly fir. It is very large and, in the opinion of
local timber merchants, has valuable properties, but they say it is too
expensive for general use in consequence of the high freight.
Fancy woods from the United States, such as birch and walnut, are
largely used, and there is nothing in England to compete with them.
Canadian yellow-pine timber and deals are largely consumed, but not
to the extent of former years. Baltic woods are being greatly substi-
tuted for them by reason of their nearness and hardness, and the
increased cost during late years of the Canadian pine. Canadian birch,
walnut, elm, and oak are used to a considerable extent.
The substitution of iron for wood in shipbuilding has interfered
very much with the use of North American shipbuilding woods. This,
however, applies almost altogether to Canada, inasmuch as the quan-
tity of American wood for shipbuilding purposes is very small, so
small that the leading timber merchant in Hull spoke of it as scarcely
worth mentioning.
The use of pitch pine has now become so general that the trade in
balk timber with the Baltic has shrunk into comparatively small com-
pass. The import of pitch pine is entirely from the United States, and,
as it is now used in building and for a variety of purposes, there is
every likelihood of an increased consumption.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
The import from the United States is very much larger than formerly,
and continually increasing, whilst from Canada it is not so large as it
used to be. This latter fact is accounted for by the use of Baltic woods
in place of the more expensive Canadian woods. The forests in the
northern districts of Canada, which consist almost entirely of pine
timber, have been so much thinned that timber has become more valu-
able as standing trees.
The Baltic, the White Sea, Canada, and the United States are the
great sources of supply for the timber market in Hull and the district.
The United States are holding their own, displacing the Baltic timber,
and the Quebec red pine, which has almost ceased to come. The latter
of all other woods is most like the pitch pine.
The woods most commonly used in this district by English timber
merchants are ash, oak, and elm. As before stated, in East Yorkshire
the country has been almost cleared of wood, and the same remark
would apply to North Yorkshire. The chief imports are from the Bal-
tic, and consist of red and white wood. These woods are generally
used for building purposes all over England. The imports of Ameri-
can pine and spruce are much larger on the west coast than on the east
coast the latter being small in comparison. As far as pine is con-
cerned, its qualities and uses have been already indicated. Spruce is
