AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 203
GENERAL BUILDING.
Concerning building operations in Hull and the consequent con-
sumption of wood used in this connection, it would appear that, taking
an average, there are 800 houses built per annum. In the construc-
tion of these Baltic timber is used. An increase of domestic buildings
is not anticipated, that is to say, to any extraordinary extent. The
town council has formulated a new and more stringent code of build-
ing regulations, which will tend to check speculative building and
increase the cost of construction. Wooden buildings are likely to
become fewer and fewer under the new regulations. Moreover, wood
paving, which has been largely used in the streets, now appears to be
discouraged by the municipal government, and seemingly there wilt
not be much extension in this direction.
Since the construction of the Hull and Barusley Eailway, which was
opened in 1884 or 1885, there has been no railway enterprise of any
moment, nor is there any probability of new undertakings or extensions
for some time to come. The acquisition of the dock estate by the North-
eastern Eailway will result in the immediate renovation of much plant,
which must involve considerable orders for wood. At the same time,
with regard to warehouses on the estate, there is ample accommodation
for present requirements.
In shipbuilding, wood becomes less and less in demand. Iron is
almost wholly used except as regards fittings. The fishing fleet of the
port, which aggregates over 400 vessels of different sizes, consists
almost entirely of steam trawlers constructed of iron. The result is
that very few wooden craft are built. Even the small river and dock
vessels, called lighters and keels, are being built of iron. The tendency
is wholly in the direction of iron and steel for shipbuilding purposes.
Having regard to the distance of the American ports, the difference
in the rates of freight, and the fact that in the lumber trade with the
north of Europe steamers are becoming increasingly employed, it is
difficult to suggest any means of stimulating the development of
imports from the United States. It is purely a question of competition
which can only be determined by the prices which may rule for the
time being. As before mentioned, there will in all probability be a
demand and preference for the fancy woods from the United States.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TEADE.
The two great staple trades of Hull are the seed-crushing and timber
trades, and the port has hitherto enjoyed preeminence in both, so far
as the northeast coast of England is concerned. Hartlepool has for
some years been a keen rival, and Hull merchants have been much
aggrieved by the preferential charges of the Northeastern Eailway
Company in favor of Hartlepool. This company, however, has acquired
by purchase the docks owned by the Hull Dock Company, so that the
