204 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
whole of the water acreage of the port is vested in the railway proprie-
tors, with the exception of the Alexandria dock, which is the property
of the Hull and Barnsley Eailway Company. Under the altered cir.
cumstances, and seeing that the Northeastern Company has now such
a vast interest in Hull, it is anticipated that, so far as local facilities for
developing the timber trade go, the dock and railway owners will do
all they can to promote an industry which forms such a great and
integral part of the commercial life of Hull. On the score, therefore, of
dock accommodation, shipping facilities, and railway charges it may
be taken as a fact that there is no prospective discouragement of the
timber trade. It is thought by some authorities, and those of the very
highest standing, that the Manchester ship canal will eventually rob
Hull of no inconsiderable share of its timber trade with the West Rid-
ing of Yorkshire and the midland counties. The diversion of traffic
would affect in a corresponding measure the Humber ports, Grimsby
and Goole, although the latter port is not a great timber-importing
place. It is, however, impossible at present to say with any degree of
confidence what influence the canal may have upon the timber trade.
Much, of course, will depend upon the action of the local railway com-
panies, and the purchase of the Hull docks would suggest that the
Northeastern, which is a very powerful company, will adapt itself to
the altering needs of the port.
BYRON GL DANIELS,
Consul.
HULL, January 23, 1894.
LEEDS.
NATIVE WOODS AND KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
The native woods are ash, elm, poplar, larch, beech, sycamore, and
oak.
The kinds of foreign lumber preferred, are Baltic red and white wood,
and Canadian pine and oak.
IMPORTS AND PRICES.
I can not give any estimate of the imports into this district. Large
quantities come from Russia, Finland, Sweden, and Canada.
Woods are sold by the standard, which is 166 cubic feet, sawed into
planks. Baltic white wood will vary from $30 to $50 per standard,
according to size and quality; red wood, from $37.50 to $82.50, accord-
ing to size and quality; and Canadian pine, from $45 to $125. Quebec
oak, about 75 cents per cubic foot in the log; pine, about 50 to 60 cents
per cubic foot in the log. Baltic lumber is principally sawed.
