CIRCULAR.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, December 15, 189S.
To the Consular Officers of the United States:
GENTLEMEN : You are hereby requested to prepare reports for publication showing
in what manner the lumber exports from this country may be increased.
The following interrogatories cover the principal points upon which information
is desired :
(1) What are the native woods? (If any of these are of an uncommon variety
describe them.)
(2) What are the kinds of lumber used and which are preferred?
(3) What is the amount of lumber imported from other countries? (Name the
countries.)
(4) If any import duty is laid upon foreign lumber, what is the amount?
(5) What are the prices of lumber?
(6) Give a general description of the climate of your district?
Information is also desired concerning the extent of general building, shipbuilding,
and railroad building in your district.
All suggestions concerning the methods to be pursued to extend the foreign trade
(already considerable) of this country in lumber will be of value.
I am, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
EDWARD H. STROBEL,
Third Assistant Secretary.
The foregoing circular was sent to the following consulates, given in
the order of the publication of their replies :
Africa: Madeira (Funchal), Sierra Leone, South Africa (Cape Town), and Zanzibar.
America :
Dominion of Canada: New Brunswick and Nova Scotia (Halifax).
Mexico: La Paz, Mazatlan, Nogales, and Vera Cruz.
Central America: British Honduras (Belize), Guatemala, and Salvador (San
Salvador).
South America : Argentine Republic (Buenos Ayres), Brazil (Rio de Janeiro),
Chile (Valparaiso), Colombia (Barranquilla and Colon), Dutch Guiana (Par-
amaribo), Ecuador (Guayaquil), West Indies (St. Thomas).
Asia:
British Asia: Ceylon and India (Calcutta).
China : Amoy, Canton, Hongkong (British), and Tien-Tsin.
Japan; Nagasaki, and Osaka and Hiogo.
Java (Batavia).
Siam (Bangkok).
Turkey in Asia: Palestine (Jerusalem) and Syria (Beirut).
Australasia: New Zealand (Auckland), New South Wales (Sydney), South Aus-
tralia (Adelaide), Tasmania (Hobart), and Victoria (Melbourne).
3
