210 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS,
CLIMATE.
The climate of Liverpool, though variable, is remarkably mild, com-
pared with that of other places on the same parallel of latitude. The
variation in temperature is not very great, railway and river traffic
being carried on with little interruption all the year round, and the river
is never frozen over in the severest winter. Neither extremes heat or
cold are experienced, but the atmosphere is moist.
GENERAL BUILDING.
Wooden ship-building at this port has been very light during the year
1893, only 5 steamers, ranging from 5 to 20 tons, having been built, 4 of
which were for foreign governments and one for the British Govern-
ment. There were also 6 wooden barges of 20 tons each, built of pitch
pine for the British Government. Some of the launches were of teak
and some of pitch pine.
The railway carriage and wagon industry centers in Birmingham,
where the principal works are located, and there is practically nothing
done in this consular district in carriage or wagon building.
The timber business for the year 1893 was equal to the previous one;
but a want of confidence was shown in sympathy with the unsatisfac-
tory general trade of the country. Imports, with few exceptions, were
not excessive, the greatest excess being in spruce deals.
AMERICAN WOODS.
Pitch pine. The aggregate import has shown a considerable falling
oft' during the year 1893, having been 37 per cent below that of the
previous year, which was the heaviest on record at this port. Th e
consumption compared favorably with the import, though less than the
previous year. Still, stocks held over were rather excessive.
Hewn wood. The season opened with a heavy stock of this wood,
and although there was a large consumption, prices ruled very low,
and the present stock, which consists chiefly of ordinary-sized wood, is
heavier than for some years.
Sawn timber. There has been a marked falling off in the import;
but the consumption was large much of it, however, of a forced char-
acter; consequently, the stock held over was much smaller than on the
previous year, but the trade complain that the stock is still excessive.
It is hoped, therefore, that shippers will make an effort to curtail the
production ; otherwise, dealers here say it is hopeless to expect the
market to assume a healthy tone in the near future.
Heals. These did not meet with very ready sale in this market; in
fact, there seems very little demand for them and with few exceptions
those imported for stowage purposes are sufficient to meet the demand.
