AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 211
Boards. Boards of prime quality and cut to special sizes are getting
more in favor here, and an increasing business has been done at what
are stated to be fairly remunerative prices.
Oak. The importation of logs has been large, chiefly from New
Orleans and Mobile. Some of it was of fine quality, but the bulk is
stated to be of medium to common quality, and therefore claimed by
the dealers as difficult to sell, with the result that much of it had to be
stored in the yard. Where sales were effected, very low prices were
obtained. The stock is heavy.
Planlcs. The importation of planks was heavy, and consisted largely
of " wagon scantling," the business in which has increased very con-
siderably of late years; but the demand has been languid, although the
prices for prime quality and good specifications have been fairly main-
tained. Common quality was difficult to handle, and the prices ruled
low. The opinion here is that the manufacture generally has improved ;
but the people in the trade suggest that more care should be taken in
shipping prime parcels free from culls. The present stocks of planks,
including a large proportion stored in outside depots, amount to about
400,000 cubic feet, which is considered much too heavy.
Boards. During the year boards arrived freely. When of good
quality and cut on the quarter, they met with fair sales. Other descrip-
tions than this are not wanted.
Wainscot billets. These have ceased to be imported.
Satinwood. The import was moderate, chiefly from Mobile and New
Orleans. It did not, however, meet with ready sale, and the prices
were very low.
Whitewood. The importations of whitewood were larger than the
previous year. Logs and planks of really good quality sold freely at
fair prices, but at the close of the year logs declined in value. An
increasing business was also done in boards, principally of the best
quality, which are most in demand here. Stocks held over are moderate.
Hickory. Several parcels were brought over, which, when in the
round log with the bark on and fresh, commanded what is claimed to
be fair prices, viz, from 36 cents to 60 cents per foot.
Ash. This wood was imported more freely, and found fair sale at from
30 to 48 cents per foot. Only the fresh wood of good size and color is
in demand here at all.
Cherry wood. The importation has been very limited, and realized
about 66 cents per foot. Consumers like this wood, and if regular
supplies could be depended on, it would find greater favor with them.
Staves. The total import of all descriptions from the United States
has been 3,182 mille, against 3, 169 mille during 1892. There has been a
demand throughout the year for New Orleans wine pipe, hogshead, and
barrel staves, and stocks on hand are more moderate. The W. O. W. L
were freely imported from Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, especially
towards the close of the year, the consequence being that stocks have
