212 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
accumulated to a considerable extent. Thereis poor demand, and prices
have fallen, with a tendency to further decline.
Walnut. There was a very heavy import of walnut, but much of it
was of small to medium sizes, and stated to be of poor quality, and con-
sequently brought low prices. Good-sized wood of the best quality was
in active demand, and commanded throughout the year full price.
8atin walnut. This was imported in moderate quantities from New
Orleans and Mobile of good size and quality, and a few parcels of
round logs from Newport News of inferior quality. The sales, how-
ever, were poor and prices low.
Mahogany. Of the furniture woods imported into this port mahogany
is by far the most extensiv e. The greatest quantity comes from Africa,
as shown by table heretofore quoted. Complaints are made, how-
ever, that shipments have been sent along quite regardless of the wants
of the trade. The rapidity with which this business has increased is
simply marvelous; hence my reason for referring to it here. In the
year 1890 only 257,000 feet (superficial) were imported; this year there
were not less than 4,984,000 feet came forward, which is nearly equa 1
to the entire import from all other countries. Next to Africa comes
Honduras as a mahogany- shipping country, the import therefrom
being the heaviest for several years and nearly double that of last
year, but it all went into consumption and left the market bare. Good
quality, straight and sizeable wood, always meets with ready sale, and
the prices were fairly maintained.
JAMES E. NEAL,
Consul.
LIVERPOOL, March 6, 1894.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
NATIVE WOOD.
The native woods of this region are of the usual hardy growth of
this latitude, and are principally oak, ash, elm, pine, willow, poplar,
sycamore, etc. ; but little native lumber is made in England.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
The lumber principally used here is pitch pine, white and red fir, oak,
walnut, and deals.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
The chief importation of lumber into Great Britain is from Norway
and Sweden and ports on the Baltic, and for this part of England, the
east coast, notably the Tyne ports, Sunderland, Hartlepool, Hull, and
