AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 215
Useful woods for building, furniture, or mechanical purposes are
numerous, but being mostly situated in places difficult of access form
but a small item in the local industries. The coniferous sorts, which
are to a small extent worked, are the kaori (Dammara moorea), which
is the giant tree of the colony; the Araucaria cookii^ which give straight
but knotty spars from 30 to 40 meters; the Araucaria Ruleii, which are
found in the southern part of the island, and attain about the same
size as the Araucaria cooTcii, the Storckellia prancheri, white, rosy-
grained, used for joinery work; the Intzia melibcei of the Isle of Pines,
very good for furniture.
The hard wood kinds, used in ship and house buildings, are numerous;
the Melaleuca glaberrima, and Malaleuca leucodendron are examples.
The principal hard redwood trees are as follows: The Pleurocalyptus
deplancheij good heavy wood of a density of 1.165; the Spermolepis
tannifera, the Grevillea gillivragi; the Stenocarpus haurifolius, a beau-
tiful furniture wood; the Weinmannia parviflora, denominated white
oa.k its bark is rich in tannic principles; the Calophyllum montanum
(tamauon), one of the most useful trees here, is used in cabinet-making.
There are numerous other species, but they are of little importance
in a commercial sense.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
The lumber preferred is that from the United States Oregon and
Washington, from which the largest quantity of wood employed in this
colony is imported, say 2,000 tons yearly.* In 1893, however, there
was no direct importation from the United States, as the stock on hand
at the end of 1892 was considerable.
New Zealand supplies about 200 tons of kouri annually, and New
South Wales about the same quantity of hard wood (blue and red gum).
PRICES AND CLIMATE.
The different sorts of lumber from all countries are sold here at from
90 to 120 francs ($17.37 to $23.16) per ton.
The climate of New Caledonia is tropical, but moderate and healthy,
resembling the climate of the Hawaiian Islands.
GENERAL BUILDING.
The colony is making fair progress in housebuilding, bnt very little
in shipbuilding. There are no railroads yet.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
The only method left to be tried here for the extension of the trade
of this colony with the United States in lumber, as well as in other Amer-
ican goods, is the establishment of an American house of business at
* The ton mentioned in tMs report is the French cubic meter=35.3 cubic feet.
