AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 221
The lumber trade is principally supplied from Norway, Sweden, and
the United States. American white oak is held in the highest esteem,
here, being far superior to the Danish article, which is scarce and poor
in quality. One firm which I consulted carries only American oak,
and is of opinion that this particular wood has splendid chances in the
markets of Denmark. It is more in demand than any other American
wood. Walnut, poplar, and pitch pine have also good chances here.
Elm and ash are not so much used. They have been imported, but are
of no importance now. Boards, planks, and sawed lumber are generally
preferred and have the quickest sale.
All lumber shipped for sale in Danish markets should be thoroughly
dried and seasoned, and American dealers will find it to their interest
to bear this fact in mind. For instance, it is said that green walnut
logs must be kept two years before using. Oak is used for furniture,
shipbuilding, and house building, and should be shipped in planks and
boards unless otherwise specially ordered. Walnut is used for furni-
ture, and should always be shipped in boards. Pine is used for ship
and house building ; poplar for veneering, billboards, and furniture, also
in the manufacture of pianofortes and carriages. Poplar is also used
largely for stoppers to beer kegs, liquor barrels, etc. There is much
demand for this wood, and it may be shipped in boards or logs. Maple,
I think, also has a future here for veneering and inlaid work.
There is no duty on oak imported into Denmark. Other woods pay
a duty of 13 ore (3J cents) per cubic foot.
The opening of the free port of Copenhagen affords a good opportu-
nity to American dealers. Lumber shipped in bulks can be stored at
low rates in the ample yards of the free port and from there be dis-
tributed to the various ports of the Baltic, according to the demands
of trade.
The free port being considered foreign territory, there is no duty on
goods entering to be reshipped on sale. Only when sold for use in
Denmark will the customary duty be exacted.
The following are some of Ihe principal lumbermen in Copenhagen:
Th. & O. Brochner, Store Kongensgade 63; A. Chr. Hensen & Co.,
Agents, Osterbrogade 3; Aubertin & Co., Norrebrogade 177; West-
phal, Thedin & Co., Norrebrogade 209; Emil Mottlan, Norrebrogade
116. American dealers can correspond directly with these firms as to
prices, terms, etc.
EGBERT J. KIRK, Consul.
COPENHAGEN, Uecember 12, 1894.
