224 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
SHIPBUILDING.
The manager of the Maschiuenfabrikeu von Escher Wyss & Co.,
Zurich, a world-renowned concern for machinery of all kinds, ship-
building, etc., writes:
We use teak, pitch pine, aiid yellow piue. The requirements for teak wood are
limited, and would hardly ofter inducements for direct imports, but of yellow and
pitch pine we consume several carloads at a time. We are buying these goods in
boards, laths, or square-cut blocks, the latter of which we cut ourselves according
to requirements.
Regarding American woods, we do not purchase same on account of the low figures
but for their superior qualities. Yellow and pitch pine are mostly used for ship-
deck laths; some little also for cabinetmakers' work. The price of pitch pine is
rather lower than that of the native larch wood ; the same contains more pitch, and
can be bought in long, clean blocks, but is not so fine as the former.
We are buying these woods at Genoa, Antwerp, or Hamburg. We could only make
direct importations if small shipments could be forwarded at as cheap freight rates
as large ones, and prices made delivered, at our railway station, subject to inspection,
as we must be very particular about the quality, and it would not pay us to send
some one to the United States to buy and inspect these woods before shipment.
Messrs. Treichler & Co., Zurich, boat builders, another prominent
firm, write:
At our wharf we are using the following kinds of wood : Mahogany, Spanish cedar,
cypress, pitch pine, yellow pine, white pine, Canadian spruce, and teak from the West
Indies.
For yacht building in England, yellow pine is mostly used (planks and laths), it
being lighter than pitch pine. The price of pitch or yellow pine should not exceed
200 francs per cubic meter ($40 per 1.308 cubic yards), delivered at Zurich. The
quality should be an excellent one, as, for boat building, only wood free of knots and
in every way faultless can be used. In order to reduce the freight charges, the woods
should be delivered in planks 6 to 10 meters long (1 meter 39 inches), with a
minimum width of 0.35 meter, and from 60 to 150 millimeters thick, or in logs or blocks
of as great dimensions as possible, and ax-cut.
An excellent wood for the manufacture of small boats is known in America under
the name of " white cedar," and is used there in- great quantities. We take a special
interest in this kind of wood, which up to date is being furnished us by Hamburg
and Bremen importers.
It is getting more difficult from year to year to find selected fine woods in Switz-
erland; other industries besides ours (such as are compelled to use fine, clear, and
durable woods) will be compelled to use more American woods. There is no market
for second qualities, parcels of which have from time to time been brought over.
Messrs. Treichler & Co. are willing to undertake the sale, on commis-
sion, of yellow and pitch pine, white cedar, and Canadian spruce, if
American wood exporters would make trial shipments to Switzerland,
and they can at any time furnish satisfactory references.
WAGONS AND CARRIAGES.
Mr. J. C. Geissberger, Zurich, carriage manufacturer, writes:
American woods for the manufacture of carriages have for years been imported
into Switzerland, but in an indirect way only, through Berlin, Hamburg, and
English commission houses.
