AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 227
RAILROADS AND STREET PAVING.
For railroad building, wooden ties are gradually being replaced by
iron ties, the latter being cheap and more durable.
Swiss cities have begun to pave their streets with wooden blocks,
and, if results prove satisfactory, the use of wooden paving blocks will
be increased.
HOUSE FINISHINGS.
During the two years 1893-1894 not less than 1,180 new houses have
been erected in the city of Zurich alone, and although not much timber
is used, stone and iron being the principal materials, a large quantity
of wood is worked up for finishing purposes, as, for instance, for par-
quetry flooring, sashes, window frames, stairs, etc.
Parquet floors are very extensively used in this country, such being
found in almost every house in Swiss cities. There are quite a number
of factories in Switzerland that make parquet flooring a specialty for
home as well as for export requirements.
Messrs. Haldirnann, Wissler & Co., Gloldbach, Canton Berne, write:
We think that in a few years some of the American woods will play an important
r61e in the Swiss markets. So far the Swiss parquetry factories have been getting
their supplies from Hungary, mostly, however, through Genoa, Antwerp, or Ham-
burg commission houses.
Pitch pine, cut in longitudinal sections (long friezes), sells in sizes of 25 to 33
millimeters thick at 90 to 95 francs per cubic meter ($18 per 1.308 cubic yards)
delivered free on board track at Swiss stations.
Some American oak is also imported from time to time. If American exporters
are desirous of competing with the Hungarian oak, they must sell the Swiss par-
quetry factories friezes, 25 to 33 millimeters (0.98 inch to 1.3 inches) thick and 30
centimeters to 2 meters (11.8 to 78.4 inches) and more in length, at a price not to
exceed 100 to 155 francs ($19.30 to $29.91) per cubic meter, according to quality and
dimensions, delivered and duty paid.
Other American woods, such as mahogany, hickory, walnut, etc., are
imported for the manufacture of furniture.
Mr. Ferdinand Haldimanu is the president of the Swiss Association of
Parquetry Manufacturers, and this gentleman is willing to give inter-
ested parties all the necessary information, with a view to enter into
direct trade relations, especially in the line of oak friezes, samples of
which he solicits.
CABINET WOOD FOR FURNITURE FACTORIES.
Messrs. Wolff & Aschbacher, furniture makers of Zurich, write:
American woods mostly imported into Switzerland are walnut, oak, palissander,
mahogany, rosewood, etc., all being delivered in the shape of logs, lumber, or planks
with angular edges.
We are aware that there are still a number of other American woods fit for the
manufacture of furniture, and up to the present time not imported, but are said to
be rather cheap that is to say, they are sold at about the same prices which we
have to pay here for our native woods, namely, 130 to 220 francs ($25.09 to $42.40).
