228 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
It would be well for exporters to send samples of furniture panels with crossettes,
the panels to be about 15 centimeters in width to 20 centimeters in length (5.9 to 7.9
inches). This would give us an idea whether they would answer our purposes.
We do not import direct, our requirements in American woods being small, but we
purchase, as needed, from importers.
Another firm says that unfinished furniture, as frames, etc., in the
rough might be imported to advantage, and asks for catalogues of such
material.
Eegarding household and office furniture of American make, the
transportation expenses and customs duties are against us. yet some-
thing might be done in the line of fine furniture, which, as a rule, was
for years imported to this district from Paris, but owing to the pro-
hibitory tariff now being imposed on goods of French origin, the
imports of such articles are restricted, and I am confident that business
could be worked up with the American article.
From some of these communications it may be readily seen that more
American woods are imported into this country than appears from the
statistics, the bulk being bought from German or English importers;
but if American exporters would make an effort to establish direct rela-
tions with dealers and large consumers here they would not only save
commissions, but no doubt largely increase sales.
It would be well to mention to American exporters that goods sent
to Switzerland must be accompanied by a certificate of origin, and that
the customs duties, which are specific, are collected invariably on the
gross weight.
EUGENE GERMAIN, Consul.
ZURICH, January 11, 1895.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT.
While gathering the necessary information on American woods in
Switzerland I entered into correspondence with several Swiss firms .
working up American and other woods, and incorporated a synopsis of
answers received in my report. To day I am in receipt of a communi-
cation from the Swiss furniture firm of Meyer- Mueller & Co., Winter-
thur and Zurich, which reached me after my report had gone forward.
This firm being a prominent concern, I give a translation of their
letter:
Answering yours of January 5, we beg to inform you that, up to date, to our
knowledge, no ready-made American furniture has been introduced into Switzerland,
but we are of opinion that unfinished American furniture in the rough (in pieces)
could be introduced to advantage.
We have seen several Swiss furniture manufacturers who visited the World's Fair
at Chicago, and from these we learn that American furniture manufacturers sell
unfinished furniture and ship it knocked down. We think such furniture would tind
a ready market in this country, and could be finished in Switzerland to suit the
tastes, as to color and finish, of the SWISH people.
