AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 229
We would therefore thank you to put us in communication with one or two first-
class American furniture factories, with a view of making arrangements to try the
venture and get a trial shipment.
The kind we manufacture are parlor, sitting-room and bedroom, and office furni-
ture. As to our responsibility, we refer you to the Zuercher Bankvereiu, Zuerich,
and the bank in Wiuterthur.
EUGENE GERMAIN, Consul.
ZURICH, February 1, 1895.
AMERICAN LUMBER IN URUGUAY.
The lumber trade of the United States with Uruguay and the
Argentine Kepublic presents incongruities which can not but be harm-
ful to the lumber interests of our country. To prove the truth of this
it is necessary only to show the difference between the prices received
by the lumber mill and the price the consumer has to pay for it here
and to explain the reasons of the extraordinary difference.
The best means of demonstrating the above will be by giving an
exhibit of a cargo sold here, with such explanations as will enable any-
one interested in the matter to form an opinion for himself. Before
proceeding further it is well to state the range of prices at which pitch
or yellow pine lumber has been offered and the figures at which this
lumber is generally sold to the consumer. The lowest offers known to
me as made from the United States to the importers here is $19 per
1,000 feet delivered in the port of Montevideo or Buenos Ayres, and
the average price paid for pitch pine by the consumer is from $40 to
$50 per 1,000 feet.
These Governments levy a duty for the privilege of allowing this
lumber to be lauded here almost equal to the amounts which the miller
realizes for the original value of the raw material plus all the work
and expenses of preparing it and getting it ready for shipment ; this,
too, in the face of the fact that this country produces no timber which
could take the place of our pine; that it must be purchased from us,
because it is needed and is the cheapest in the market in spite of all
the additional charges put on, thereby furnishing these Governments a
source of revenue on an article the export of which destroys our pine
forests uselessly and leaves the lumber manufacturer poor.
The following exhibit is of an account of sale for a cargo of pitch
(yellow) pine lumber sold and shipped direct by the mill with inter-
vention of their representative here :
Account of sale of a cargo of pitch pine per bark , for , Montevideo.
Feet.
According to M. M.'s invoice 564, 149
According to measurement of public measurer here, as per contract 564, 116
Less reduction for sap, short measure in some dimensions, and on deck
load 34,988
Net.. .... 529,128
