230 AMERICAN LUMBER IX FOREIGN MARKETS.
529,128 feet, at $25 per 1,000 feet. $13,228.30
Freight, at $12 per 1,000 feet, according to charter party 6, 129. 70
Total T.I
Discount at 8 per cent on $6,000 paid in cash by buyer on account
of freight, six months $240. 00
Measurer's bill, 25 cents per 1,000 feet 141. 02
Discount on note of buyer, at six months, at 7 per cent per
annum, and other expenses, stamps, telegrams, etc 463. 49
844. 51
Net total 6,254.09
This amount was paid over in cash by telegraphic transfer in Xew
York the same day of settlement here, with deduction of $10.45 for
cable expenses to bank.
The lumber trade here has so far been practically divided into two
distinct branches, one being the importer, the other the dealer. The
importer buys and contracts probably in conjunction with his New York
commission merchant when and wherever the opportunity is most fav-
orable, using capital to the best advantage in the markets at home,
picking up bargains whenever lumber manufacturers are forced to
make sacrifices, etc., and selling in cargo lots afloat, at time of shipment,
to the lumber dealers here, who keep a regular stock on hand for dis
tribution to the consumer.
It will be easily understood that the importers are very few in num-
ber in any one of these countries, and that it is to their benefit to keep
the dealer as much as possible in the dark regarding the import lum-
ber trade, and thus subject to themselves. With this object in view, a
lot of customs and practices were inaugurated, which made it almost a
matter of impossibility for an outside manufacturer or dealer in lumber-
to sell direct to the dealer here on account ot the numberless vexations
he was subjected to. Unless he knew and avoided these obstacles, or
had some one here who could do this for him, he would come out loser
at the end.
These practices apparently favor the actual dealer, but, i n fact, the
importer has been the one benefited, because they gave him entire
control of the importing business and proved to be his safeguard
against outside intrusion.
The methods of sales to dealers here are about the following: The
lumber is sold and delivered on six months' credit from the time it has
been officially accepted by the dealer, according to the various other
customs hereinafter mentioned, viz:
1. The dealer is expected to be notified by wire immediately when
the ship bringing the cargo he bought from the importer (or seller) is
ready to sail, so as to give him time to dispose of all he can to his cus-
tomers during the time of the voyage, a matter of not less than sixty
days.
2. All lumber sold is supposed to be dry, clear of any sap, splits,
knots, and other i'aults in other words, according to the custom hciv.
