232 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
three-sixths, with which the latter party is able to make himself quite
comfortable.
That the importer, the dealer, the freighter, and the Government
here are doing well on a business of this kind, goes without saying, but
our manufacturer at home, having commenced business as a young man
on a piece of timber land, and having worked hard all his life, finds
himself when he has grown old, poor and without any resources, as the
land from which the timber has disappeared without benefit to him is
valueless without it.
What steps should be taken to remedy these hardships falling upon
the producer in this branch of industry, are for him to decide; but it
would seem that a direct connection between the manufacturer and the
actual dealer were preferable to the way this business has been done
so far; or, still better, if the parties interested in the lumber-milling
business would join together and establish rules of their own in order
to protect themselves, and at the same time guard against the useless
destruction of the timber wealth of our country without compensating
benefit.
EDGAR SCHBAMM, Consul
MONTEVIDEO, April 30, 1896.
ASPEN WOOD FOR MATCHES.
The manufacture of matches in Germany, which has risen to be an
industry of importance, employs pine, poplar, aspen, linden, and birch
woods. Of these woods, aspen has proved itself indispensable in the
manufacture of matches by reason of its natural qualities and the ease
with which it can be worked up. It is distinguished by its large struc-
ture, ready combustibility, freedom from knots, and uniformity of sub-
stance.
The flame of a match, as is well known, is conveyed to the wood from
the igniting composition by sulphur, as in the case of lucifers, into which
the splints are dipped. In the case of Swedish matches the sulphur is
substituted by paraffin. The sulphur, where this is used, remains on
the outside of the wood and dries at once. The paraffin, however,
must penetrate into the wood, partly because the matches would other-
wise stick to each other, but principally because the paraffin becomes
fluid again at even low degrees of heat and would penetrate the ignit-
ing composition and render it useless. For safety matches, therefore,
a wood is required which has light and spongy pores, as found only in
the aspen, whose bright white color further gives it an agreeable appear-
ance. Poplar has a gray color and is brittle ; birch wood becomes yellow
and is seldom obtainable in stout logs. These woods are also slow of
combustion. Pine and fir woods take up little paraffin, owing to the
resin they contain.
