AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 233
In order to keep the pores as open as possible, and also to work up
the wood to the greatest advantage, the aspen splint is produced by
flaking. Aspen possesses the quality of being flakable to a very high
degree. The flaking is done by causing a knife to revolve round a log
which rotates on its own axis. The wood is divided into ribbons of the
thickness and width of a match. These ribbons are laid evenly, one
above the other, and cut into square splints. In consequence of the
uniformity of the annual layers, aspen wood produces perfectly homo-
geneous ribbons or splints. This is not the case when other kinds of
wood, like fir, etc., are flaked. The absence of all structure or grain
further enables aspen- wood to be flaked into thin shavings, which are
worked by other machines into the familiar match boxes. Just this
fact that both match splints and box shavings can be produced by one
machine from one material calls for the employment of aspen wood.
Attempts have been made to flake fir and pine woods as substitutes for
aspen, but it is not known that any results of importance have been
obtained. The reason why the last-mentioned woods can not be flaked
is, probably, because of the difference in the annual rings between the
spring and fall wood that is, between the inside of the ring and its
extreme outside the difference is too great. The fall wood is too solid,
the spring wood too soft, and the annual rings are of varying thick-
nesses, according to the location of the tree, while, even in the case of
pine, the knife is apt to slip and cut ribbons of unequal thickness. In
the case of aspen wood each ribbon is like the other, a circumstance
which is of the utmost importance for the further processes.
Match manufacturers require that the aspen wood should be free
from rotten pith and, as far as possible, free from knots free from pith,
otherwise the wood can not be fixed in the flaking machine ; free from
knots, because the wood round the knots is decayed. The wood should
further be straight grown and of loose texture. The aspen is available
for match making as soon as the trunk has a diameter of 8 inches. The
demand is greatest for trunks with a diameter of 10 to 20 inches. To
attain this size a period of twenty- five to sixty years is necessary, accord-
ing to the nature of the soil, position, etc. Trunks from twenty to thirty-
five years old are preferred to younger growths for the reason that the
method of manufacture produces the same amount of waste, whether
the trunks be small or large.
The match factories which employ aspen wood are mostly situated
in Silesia, Pomerania, Schleswig-Holstein, Bavaria, Rhine Province,
Alsace-Lorraine, Rhine Palatinate, and the Duchy of Anhalt. These
factories use on the whole 4,000,000 to 5,500,000 cubic feet of aspen
wood annually, of which about 3,500,000 cubic feet are imported from
Russia.
The Silesian factories, mostly through dealers, procure their wood
from Upper Silesia, Poland, -Galicia, and Hungary. To procure
wood from the districts of Konigsberg and Gumbinnen is unprofitable,
