AMKKICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 235
tian factories, which are, therefore, in a very difficult position. Prices
here have risen 10 to 15 per cent in late years and are still rising.
The factories in Schleswig-Holstein procure Russian wood via Libau
and Konigsberg. The freight rates from the former city are 5 marks
($1.19) and from the latter 6 marks ($1.43) per cubic meter (35.316
cubic feet). The price for wood, duty paid, is 20 to 21 marks ($5.76
to $6) per cubic meter.
In the Khiue Palatinate Russian wood is partly used, which costs 34
marks ($8.09) per cubic meter, duty paid and delivered free.
The factories in the Hundsriick use aspen wood from the forests in
Nassau, Bavaria, and the Eifel. Russian wood is too expensive. The
wood is procured in logs of 2 meters (6.5 feet) in length.
In Bavaria, where the wood is also becoming scarce, native wood
from Upper and Lower Bavaria is used. The wood is furnished sawed
in lengths of 2 meters (6.5 feet), as logs of such lengths enjoy lower
freight rates.
The rapid decrease of the native stocks of the aspen, and the subse-
quent enhancement of the prices of this raw material, together with
the difficulty of obtaining it, led a number of chambers of commerce to
memorialize the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and petition him
to cause the foresters in whose districts match factories are located to
pay more attention to the growth of the aspen. A similar representa
tion has been made by parties concerned to the French authorities.
The Russian manufacturers seeing their advantage over their German
and French colleagues, were not slow in petitioning their own Govern-
ment to prohibit the exportation of aspen wood.
This European scramble for aspen wood can well be settled by sup-
plying these factories with wood from the United States, where the
aspen is yet an ubiquitous tree, used but little for mechanical purposes.
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS OF MATCHES.
In connection with the above, the following tables, showing the value
of matches imported into and exported from Germany in 1893, will be
of interest:
Imports.
Sweden .' $30,762
Austria-Hungary 6, 010
Belgium 2,678
Italy 2,676
Total 42,126
