AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 237
Perhaps the very best timber obtainable for this purpose is the Tas-
manian blue gum. This has worn here for six or eight years. In all
that time no repairs have had to be made, and the pavements are as
good to-day as when laid.
The Tasmanian government is interested in the matter, and have
taken active steps to place samples before our contractors and municipal
authorities.
An American exporting and importing firm doing business here, with
a branch in New York City, recently visited Hobart, the capital of
Tasmania, and laid the matter before the premier. They were most
courteously received, and at their suggestion the premier caused to be
shipped to them in New York samples of these blocks, which can now
be seen at the office of Messrs. Trowbridge & Terry, 531 Broadway.
While these hard woods are plentiful here, it must be remembered
that the cost of freight, etc., would bring them to New York at a price
probably no lower than cedar blocks can be obtained at home; but
consideration must be given to their durability and vast superiority.
It is not unlikely that in view of opening up this trade with the
colonies and at the same time benefiting our own land, arrangements
might be made to admit these blocks free of duty.
The demand at home will be endless and the supply here inexhaust-
ible, and the benefits resulting from the adoption of these blocks
apparent. For instance, all sailing vessels coming to this port from
the United States are, in nearly all cases, obliged to go to other ports
seeking return cargoes. Should the wood blocks be accepted and used
in the United States, these vessels could all get return freights here,
and thus the trade between the two countries would be profitably
increased.
DANIEL W. MARATTA,
Consul- General.
MELBOURNE, January 12, 1894.
A VALUABLE TREE IN NEW CALEDONIA.
From time to time I have received requests from citizens of divers
Southern States for seed of the niaouli tree of New Caledonia. This
tree (Melaleuoa leucodendron) is the characteristic wood of this coun-
try. It blooms in January and June. Its wood is of a reddish color
and hard. It works well, more especially for wheelwright purposes. It
has a suberous or cork-like bark, and replaces cork in some of its
usages. The leaves are employed for medical purposes ; when distilled,
they give an essence which is a powerful antiseptic. It is generally
admitted that the exceptional salubrity of New Caledonia is due to the
essence of this wood The vicinity of swamps is not dangerous to
health here. It is probable that the above facts are known to some
