238 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
residents of the United States, hence the requests for seed which have
reached nie. I send a small parcel of the niaouli seed to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture through the United States dispatch agent at San
Francisco. The seed is still mostly attached to the boughs in its pods.
These should be bruised before planting. Each pod contains a large
quantity of seed, which are very small and shaped like a coniraa.
They should be sown in the spring in hotbeds of light earth, well
watered at all seasons, and always kept from frost. The young plants
are ready for transportation in fifteen months after sowing, when no
more care is necessary in climates not subject to frost.
L. LE MESCAM,
Commercial Agent.
NOUMEA, Hay 14, 1894.
LUMBER IN COSTA RICA.
The native woods principally utilized as lumber consist of two or
three varieties of cedar, as well as several cheaper and less durable
woods unknown in northern countries.
Of imported lumber, pine is the only kind used in any quantity, with
some oak brought for use of the railroad in its repair shops. The
principal objection to pine and other foreign lumber is that in a very
few years it is attacked by insects, which eat through the stoutest
pieces and completely destroy them.
The value of lumber imported from the United States during the
year 1893 was $3,816 in American gold.
There is an import duty of, say, 2J cents in American currency per
kilometer (2.204G pounds) on lumber such as boards, rafters, and for
construction purposes generally.
According to a Government decree dated July 28, 1890, all lumber
for construction imported for use in Port Limon is free of duty tillJuly
29, 1895.
Cedar is worth about $6 and mahogany about $8 (American money)
per ton of 40 cubic feet.
In view of the small demand for foreign lumber and the condition of
general building at the present time, there is very little to be suggested
in the way of extending trade. Sawmills are being erected in different
parts of the country, and native woods are well adapted for most local
building purposes.
HARRISON B. WILLIAMS,
CQH8UL
SAN JOSE, July 2, 1894.
