6
AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
IMPORTS AND DUTIES.
All the lumber used here comes from the United States and Nova
Scotia.
The import duty upon foreign lumber is as follows:
Kinds and sizes.
Duties.
Local tax
(additional).
Balks, beams, and boards, 75 millimeters thick, by not less than 35 centi-
Cubic meter.
$1.40
Cubic meter.
$0 20
Sawn into boards 35 millimeters thick and 75 millimeters wide ........
2 80
321
4.00
6 00
001
*
3 per cent ad
valorem.
Balks, beams, and boards are those imported in greatest quantities.
PRICES AND CLIMATE.
The prices of lumber here are from 2 cents to 6 cents per superficial
foot, 12 by 1 inches. I give a general description of the climate, as
taken from "Climate and Eesources of Madeira," by Michael C. Grab-
ham, M. D., F. R. G. s.
Madeira has a mean annual temperature of 67.3; the average heat of summer
is hardly more than 70, whilst the mean temperature of the winter season is always
above 60. The extreme heat of summer is seldom more than 77 in the hottest part
of the day, whilst in winter the lowest possible temperature is hardly under 50 in
the coldest part of the night. The range of temperature during the day and night
is likewise marked by the same moderation. Varying from 5 to 15 and averaging
9, the mornings and evenings are almost always cool and refreshing, and the
decline of temperature is constantly gradual and continuous, without any sudden
depression at sunset.
In the winter season we have our greatest atmospheric dryness, and the solar rays
are not then excluded by any dense shield of watery vapor. As the spring advances
the moisture of Madeira is increased, and the solar rays are greatly intercepted ; but,
eventually, in the summer the northeast wind arises, in latitudes far north, and
reaches this region in moderate dryness.
I should remark that in Madeira the dampest atmospheres occur during the warm-
est weather. We know nothing of the cold damp of northern climates, nor has any
fog or surface mist a place in this climate.
The annual rainfall is 29 inches ; I believe that estimate to' represent fairly the
average amount, and moreover, it closely coincides with the deductions of others.
There are, however, considerable variations; in some years the whole amount has
not reached 20 inches, while iu other years it has exceeded 40 inches, but an amount
between 25 inches and 30 inches may be looked for with tolerable certainty.
It is by no means clear that the annual fall of rain has been affected by the
destruction of the forests.
Here I may state that in Funchal there has been no change in one hundred and
thirty years, and that the recorded rainfall is now exactly what it was when the fall
of rain was first measured. The rain usually commences in October in heavy show-
ers. The autumn rains are variable in amount and duration. After a few days, a
period of fine weather is to be expected; but November and December are generally
interspersed with rain days. The winter rains are quite tropical in character, the
water falling in dense intermitting showers, and generally unaccompanied by wind.
