240 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
LUMBER TRADE OF THE STRAITS SETTLEMENTS.
In the dense jungles that still cover a vast portion of the Malay
Peninsula and the adjacent islands there exist many rare and valu-
able forest trees indigenous and peculiar to this region. Of these I
shall proceed to enumerate and briefly describe the nine best known
lumber-yielding varieties.
Seriah (liopea). This is a tall, handsome tree, with wood of a light
red color, resembling coarse cedar in grain, much used in house building
for joinery work, but not suitable for beams and joists.
Mercanti. An inferior variety of the preceding.
Jelulong (dyera costulate). This is a large tree, with soft, white wood,
used for models, cases, and work where strength and durability are not
essential.
Darrou (sideroxylon sundaicum). A heavy, close-grained wood, resin-
ous and aromatic, which, though well adapted to carpenters' work,
does not resist exposure to the weather sufficiently well to admit of
being used to advantage in external constructions.
Balan (not scientifically determined). A fine, large forest tree, <K) to
100 feet in height and 3 to 6 feet in diameter, with hard, heavy, close-
grained, tenacious wood of a light brown color, much used for joists
and beams and for all purposes where strength and durability are
required.
Tampinis (sloetia sideroxylon). A close-grained wood of rich brown
color, susceptible of a higli polish, and closely resembling mahogany ;
most highly prized for joinery and building purposes on account both
of its great durability and of the fact that it is not affected, as are other
woods, by the ravages of the white ant, so destructive to timber in
these latitudes.
Karangie (dialum indicum). A tall, handsome tree, often found grow-
ing to a height of 60 feet, with a diameter of I feet. Its wood is hard,
dark colored, durable, and often finely grained. It is used for furni
ture, and, to a certain extent, for building purposes.
Damnrlnnt (canarium species). One of the great Malayan forest
trees, especially plentiful in the neighborhood of Penang, where it is
much used for house building. Its wood is light colored, close grained,
and lustrous, and is admirably suited for beams and joists on account
of its great transverse strength and stiffness.
Mirabou (afzelia palembanica). A large, majestic, leguminous forest
tree, with tough, stiff, durable, beautifully grained wood, susceptible of
nne polish, and well adapted to furniture making.
