242 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
La'petang in 1892, and a survey is now completed as far as Kuala
Selama, The Kintu Valley Railway has been begun, and is expected
to be completed by the end of 1894. This road will extend from the
port of Telok Auson to Ipoh, a distance of 50 miles.
Mate of Salangor. A railway from Klang to Kula Lunipor, a dis
tance of 22 miles, opened in 1886, is one of the most remunerative roads
in existence. It pays 17 per cent on the original capital, with a work-
ing expenditure of 46 per cent of the gross receipts. An extension to
Kawang, Seraudah, and Kuala Kubu, a total distance of 38 miles, is
under construction.
State of Sungeillf/oiny. A railway 24 miles in length, from Port
Dicksoii to Seremban, was opened in 1891.
Considering the vast sources of supply which it has so much nearer
at hand, I do not see that there is any opening in this market for the
extension of trade in American lumber. I believe, however, that our
sawmilling machinery might be introduced here to advantage.
E. SPENCER PRATT,
Consul- General.
SINGAPORE, July 2, 1894.
LUMBER IN WESTERN INDIA.
NATIVE WOODS.
The principal native woods are teak, rosewood, and walnut. Kose-
wood, or black wood, is largely used for yokes, cart-wheels, plows, knee
timbers for boats, handles for knives, etc. It is also used for cabinet-
making. In its wild state the tree attains a height of 60 to 80 feet,
with a girth ranging up to 20 feet. It is fine-grained, strong, and
heavy; weight per square foot, 50 to 54 pounds.
East Indian walnut generally grows very fast, attains a height of 50
to 65 feet, and a girth of 6 to 10 feet; weight of wood per cubic foot,
40 to 60 pounds. It is used for picture frames, sugar-cane crushers, oil
mills, etc.
Teak i> one of the most valuable woods used in India; it does not
warp, and the white ants, which are most destructive insects in India,
do not touch it. The wood lasts many years, and changes in appear
ance as it grows old. In an old Hindoo cave, about 90 miles from
Bombay, there is a ceiling lined with teakwood which is said to have
been in position twelve hundred years. Teakwood is mostly used for
shipbuilding, construction of houses, and cabinetmaking. It is the
best lumber to be found for making furniture.
GENERAL BUILDING.
In the Presidency of Bombay there were 154J miles of railway under
construction in the official year 1892-93, and 1,256| miles surveyed and
