AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 245
the expense of getting the timber to the banks of the Parana Eiver and
thence down to tide water, to say nothing of ocean freights, soon proved
that there was no money in the enterprise.
I have heretofore referred to the company organized in this city to
bring the woods of Terra del Fuego to Buenos Ayres. I understand
that the project is being worked with some success. The timber
received from there has the name of " caique." It is easily worked, and
excellent for furniture. Here it goes under the name of "guindo." It
is destined to have a good demand.
The manufacture of furniture here is an established industry. It
began in 1890, when a prohibitive tariff was put upon the machine-
made furniture of the United States, and it has so extended that now
all the best styles and qualities of foreign furniture and cabinetwork
are turned out in this city.
E. L. BAKER, Consul.
BUENOS AYRES, January 24, 1896.
TIMBER RESOURCES OF SPAIN.
But little attention is paid in Spain to the cultivation and care of
forests, although they are sorely needed in almost every province, not
only to supply the requirements of commerce and trade, but also to
adorn the landscape, to invigorate the soil, and to preserve the crops
from the devastations of droughts and floods. As a rule, such forests
as do exist in Spain are remote from the littoral towns and cities, and
they are, therefore, of comparatively small value, except as fuel for local
purposes, inasmuch as the railway facilities for transportation are
small and the freights are high. Eich as Spain is in nature's gifts, she
will always remain undeveloped so long as she fails to bring the pro-
ductive regions of her soil into rapid and cheap communication with
her cities and towns and with the rest of the world. A country in
which the trains run only 15 or 20 miles an hour can never compete
with a country in which they run 30 or 40 miles an hour; nor can a
country in which the freight rates are practically prohibitive compete
in her own littoral markets with countries that can ship to them prod
uce and goods at easy and advantageous rates. The distance from
Barcelona to the French frontier is 103 miles. To cover that distance,
it takes the express train nearly six hours j that is to say, the train
goes at the rate of about 17 miles an hour, and Barcelona, be it remem-
bered, is the largest port of Spain. Furthermore, it costs more to
bring goods from Saragossa (about 200 miles from Barcelona) than by
ship from England. If ever Spain realizes the importance of rapid
transit, there is absolutely no reason why she should not take a good
position among the wealthy and prosperous nations of the world. The
wealth she has always derived from her colonies has made her indiffer-
ent to the wealth that work and intelligence could secure from her own
soil, and she will doubtless remain indifferent until she is forced by
