246 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
necessity to become introspective and develop her peninsular resources.
She will then be able to cut down her importations very materially,
especially those of minerals, cereals, and wood. Her importations of
wood amount now to about $7,000,000 annually. Of that sum,
$2,500,000 is paid for staves, most of which come from the United
States. The remaining' $4,500,000 is employed in the purchase of
pine from Finland, Sweden, and the United States, lir from Canada,
beech from Hungary, elm from Austria, mahogany from Mexico, walnut
from Italy, and from the storehouses in Havre, Bordeaux, and Mar-
seilles considerable quantities of cedar, ebony, and sandalwood.
That a great variety of trees can be easily grown in Spain may be
inferred from the fact that the following species are to be found here
and are apparently thriving :
The palmetto (el palmito), found in Andalusia, Murcia, Valencia, and
Catalonia.
The spruce fir tree (pinabete), a tree very common in France and
Germany and very useful in building, is found in Spain in only Aragon
and Catalonia.
The pine (pino) is of six kinds in Spain el pino piuonero, used in
naval construction and in carpenter work, and quite abundant in Anda-
lusia and Castile; el pino silvestre, which grows to a height of 90 feet
and is seen in the north and west of Spain; el pino negro, a wood
easily polished, growing in the north of Aragon and Catalonia; el pino
negral de Cuenca, which grows in nearly all the mountainous regions
of Spain; el pino carrasco, which is not so tall as the other kinds, and
which makes good boards, being found principally in Murcia and Valen-
cia, and also in Catalonia and Aragon ; and el piuo negral de Segovia,
a dark pine, very common throughout the peninsula, but not very strong
or elastic.
The elm tree is of two kinds Ulmus campestris and Ulmus inon-
tana and is seen in many parts of Spain in valleys and near rivers
and in the promenades of some cities. The wood is hard and elastic
and is used in making carts and machinery.
The white poplar (alamo bianco), a very common tree in all parts of
Spain and much used by carpenters.
The yew tree (eltejo),hard and compact, and found in Sierra Nevada,
in the Pyrenees, and in Asturias. It is used by ebonists and turners.
The black poplar tree (chopo), light in weight and serviceable as poles
and handles and in the manufacture of paper. This is one of the few
trees that are cultivated in Spain.
The beech tree (haya), which grows to a height of 120 feet and
forms large forests in the mountains of Navarre, Asturias, Logrono,
Leon, and Santander, and grows in Burgos, Saragossa, Lerida, and
Vizcaya.
The chestnut (el castano) is useful in making staves, boards, doors,
and windows. It is seen chiefly in Galicia, Asturias, Santauder, Vaz-
congadas, and Catalonia.
