AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 249
work, and general railway cons traction ; the lighter woods, with the
exception of cedar and petereby-negro, are sawn up into planks, chiefly
in Asuncion, and in South America, to a great extent, take the place
of pine, which wood, being imported from Europe and North America,
is expensive.
The hard woods of this country will compare favorably with any
wood in the world in durability and strength. It is well known that
some of them, after being under ground or in water from fifty to seventy
years, or even longer, are found to be perfectly sound, with only a slight
superficial corrosion, and for this reason there are now large orders
from Buenos Ayres and Montevideo for wood of this class for piles,
which can be supplied at a less cost than pitch or creosoted pine.
There are other hard woods, close grained and yet elastic, which com-
pare favorably with the English oak and the American hickory, and
others, again, which resist the wood borers and are uninflammable.
As regards the soft woods, the chief export is cedar (cedro). Para-
guayan cedar is far superior and commands a higher price than the
cedar found in the northern parts of the Argentine Eepublic. It is
richer in color and more durable than its bigger-growing brothers to be
found in Tucuman and in the Argentine and Brazilian Misiones. The
best cedar hitherto exported to Europe has come from Cuba, but the
supply from there is now practically exhausted, and the revolution has
put an entire stop to its exportation for the present.
Petereby-negro is a wood whose value it is difficult to overestimate.
It takes a fine polish, is handsome for furniture, and is of great dura-
bility. It is highly scented and extremely light. Some of the most
beautiful pieces of furniture I have seen have been made of this wood.
In appearance it is not unlike American walnut, and it is also to be had
with a wavy grain (crespo).
Among'the various palms which are to be found in great quantities
in the Paraguayan Chaco, I must not forget to mention the red and
black palms. They are extremely hard and will often turn the edge of
the best-tempered ax. The black palm makes a magnificent veneer,
taking a beautiful polish, and when in water or under ground it is
practically everlasting.
Large quantities of a small brush-like tree called espanillo, and
another called algaroba (the latter scarce), are cut up into posts and
sent to Buenos Ayres for fencing ; and although sometimes they are not
more than 2 or 3 inches in diameter, they will last under ground forty
or fifty years.
I give a list of the principal woods and some of their various uses:
Curupay. A hard, red, heavy wood of great strength, lasting for
many years underground or in water. It is chiefly of this wood that
piles for docks and bridges are made, and a large demand exists for it
for sleepers. The bark is used for tanning. Its price, put in Asuncion,
is 45 cents (gold), 34 inches (Spanish yard) by 10 by 10.
