AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 7
In December, 1867, one of my rain gauges, holding 2 inches, filled and overflowed
in a single night. The month of January is often without rain, and then is, per-
haps, the driest and pleasantest month of the year. Sometimes, however, it counts
many days of rain. February, likewise, is uncertain, and has been in my experience
the wettest, windiest, and most unsettled month. March usually brings much fine
weather, but rain sometimes falls on several days. April and May are spring months
with occasional showers. June is almost invariably cloudy. July, August, and
September are cloudless months of unbroken sunshine. The wet weather of Madeira
is seldom lasting, and in the entire winter there are few consecutive rainy days.
Annually there are eighty days in which rain falls. The fall of snow upon the
mountains generally happens in January or February; it seldom lies long upon the
hills. Snow is seldom seen upon the mountains lower than 3,000 feet above Funchal ;
and it has probably never been known to lie nearer in altitude than 2,500 feet.
GENERAL BUILDING.
There is nothing doing here in the way of general building. In the
line of ship building nothing but small boats are constructed.
We have one short railway, of about 3 miles, from the city to the top
of the mountain.
THOMAS C. JONES,
Consul
FUNCHAL, February 21, 1894.
SIERRA LEONE.
NATIVE WOODS.
Native woods used in building here are oak, whismore, brimstone,
teak, mahogany (two varieties), rosewood (fine quality), and black
walnut. These are durable woods that will withstand insects and
weather.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
The native woods are used in the framing and outside works, and
American pine for finishing. The nicest finish is obtained by using
rosewood.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
During the year 1893, 855,971 feet of pine lumber were received at
this port from the United States. No other country sends lumber to
Sierra Leone.
DUTY AND PRICES.
The import duty on lumber is 7J per cent ad valorem, invoice price.
The present prices of lumber in this market are: Sawed lumber ?
lineal measure, 1 inch thick, board measure, $40 per 1,000 feet; clear
pitch pine, planed on one side, $GO; if tougued and grooved, $80.
