250 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
Curupay-ria. A species of curuptiy of greater weight-bearing power,
but inclined to <?rack when exposed to the sun.
Urunday-mi. All that applies to curupay applies to this; also the
price.
Urunday-pard. A hard wood of little or no value. I insert this as a
warning to purchasers not to confound it with urumlay-mi.
Tinibo. A light wood, not unlike cedar in grain, and as it often
grows to an immense size, it is much used for dugout canoes and
troughs for water and treacle. It is used also for shingles for roofing.
But little of this wood is exported.
Tatajibd (Sp-mora). A hard, yellow wood, used for sleepers, but, in
my opinion, overrated on account of its decaying when in moist earth.
Tatand. A. handsome yellow hard wood. It makes an excellent
veneer, is very durable underground, and resists insects and fire. It
would be difficult to overestimate this wood. It is much sought after
by shipbuilders for shoulders and stem and stern posts.
Guayabi. Very flexible and elastic ; greatly used here for bullock
yokes and ax handles, being preferred to the hickory of North America.
Petereby bianco. A light wood; of little use except when cut up for
rough boxes.
Petereby negro. One of the best woods in the country. It is much
used for masts on account of its great length. The price of this, put
in Asuncion, is 55 cents (gold), 34 by 10 by 10 inches.
Palo santo. Only found in the Paraguayan Ohaco. Much used for
its chemical properties and for fancy work in lathe turning.
Quebracho negro. The king of hard woods. The signification of the
name is a ax breaker." There is no wood known to surpass it for dura-
bility and longevity either in earth or water. It is sent to Europe for
tanning purposes. It fetches as much as $10 (gold) a ton in Buenos
Ay res.
Quebracho bianco. Has almost the same properties as the other, but
is of no use for tanning. A tonic is made from the bark, said to be
beneficial in pulmonary diseases.
Lapacho. Erroneously supposed to be what is known in Brazil and
other parts as greenheart. Immense quantities of this are shipped to
Buenos Ayres for railway and shipbuilding purposes. It is a greenish-
yellow wood, which does not readily crack, and is of immense strength.
It is not good for piles or damp soil. The "crespo" or curled class has
a beautiful appearance, and makes handsome, but heavy furniture. I
would warn purchasers of its extreme inflammability. Its price in
Asuncion is 35 cents (gold), 34 by 10 by 10 inches.
Ibyrapyte. An overrated wood much exported to Buenos Ayres for
railway carriage and shipbuilding. It is heavy and hard and imper-
vious to the direct action of water, but unless very well seasoned warps
considerably.
Ivirard (bitter}. One of the best woods of the country ; close grained,
