AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 251
not unlike oak in appearance. It has this great advantage it does not
crack and is invariably sound in its heart. This wood is used by the
natives for the hubs or boxes of wheels and fellies, and these native-
made wheels are, as a rule, made without iron tires, proving the extreme
hardness and durability of the wood, for the roads in Paraguay are of
the roughest description. This wood I can with safety recommend to
shipbuilders, carriage makers, and carpenters; it is durable, strong, and
easily worked. The price, put in Asuncion, is 55 cents (gold), 34 by 10
by 10 inches.
lviraro-mi. A fine, closer- grained class than the above, somewhat
scarce, therefore commanding a high price. It is invaluable for engrav-
ing blocks.
Incienso. The sap of this is the incense of commerce, but for some
reason there is no trade in it except for local purposes. Of late there
has been a demand for the wood for parquet flooring, on account of its
scent, durability, and hardness. Price, 45 cents (gold), 34 by 10 by 10
inches, but seldom to be had more than 12 by 12 inches square.
Pah bianco. One of the commonest and tallest trees of Paraguay.
This wood takes its name from its bark and not from the color of the
wood, which is whitish yellow, with a strain of black. Although heavy,
it is largely used here and in Buenos Ayres instead of pine. It is
practically everlasting when not exposed to wind and weather. It has
this great advantage dry rot and borers never touch it. It is easily
worked. Price, 35 cents (gold).
Cedro. The price of this wood is rising in leaps and bounds. It is
just now particularly in demand on account of the Cuban revolution,
and it would be difficult to exaggerate its value in the immediate future,
as the quantity now left is very limited. For durability and for retain-
ing its scent it is thought to be superior to any other cedar hitherto used
in the manufacture of cigar boxes and receptacles for the preservation
of apparel from the depredations of insects. The price, put in Asun-
cion, is 60 cents (gold), 34 by 10 by 10 inches.
I have delayed forwarding this report on account of the nonarrival of
samples of the woods I describe. The minister of the interior ordered
samples to be sent to the consulate free of charge, but as yet they have
not been delivered.
SAMUEL W. THOME, Consul.
ASUNCION, June 5, 1896.
