THE INFLUENCE OF FORESTRY UPON THE LUMBER
INDUSTRY.
By OVERTON W. PRICE,
Assistant Forester, Bureau of Forestry.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE LUMBER INDUSTRY.
The development of the lumber industry in this country is without
parallel. It now ranks fourth among the great manufacturing indus-
tries of the United States, and represents an invested capital of about
$611,000,000 and an annual outlay of over $100,000,000 in wages. It
affords through its three great branches the logging industiy, the
sawmill industry, and the planing-mill industry a means of livelihood
to considerably over a million persons. The annual value of the prod-
ucts, which has multiplied nearly ten times in the last half centuiy,
is $566,000,000. But although the rapid development of the lumber
industry has had far-reaching results in furthering every branch of
manufacture which depends upon wood, it has been fundamentally
unsound in principle. The settler who cuts and sells trees without
forethought from land fit only for forest growth has not enriched
himself in the long run. The havoc which has been wrought in the
forests of the United States has turned trees into money, but has put
the balance on the wrong side of the sheet by rendering vast areas
unproductive. It is the history of all great industries directed by
private interests that the necessity for modification is not seen until
the harm has been done and its results are felt. This fact has
been emphasized in the lumber industry in the earlier days by the
instinctive feeling of the colonist against his natural enem}-, the forest,
v and later by the remarkable inducements offered by lumbering for
present profit only. . The first settlers had two objects in view in their
attack upon the forest the one to clear land for their farms, the
other to procure wood for their buildings, fuel, and fences. As the
tide of colonization rose, and as the uses for wood in manufacture
increased in number and extent, lumbering rapidly assumed the
proportions of a business enterprise, and from supplying only per-
sonal wants it became profitable to supply also those of others.
With an apparently inexhaustible supply of timber available, and with
an insistent and growing demand, the lumber industry came to offer
remarkable opportunities for money making. Step by step with its
development improvement in tools and machinery took place. The
changes that enterprise and ingenuity have wrought in the American
sawmill are no less wonderful than those which have taken place in the
309
