AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 9
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
I have 110 1 been able to learn the amount of lumber imported, but
nearly all that conies is from the United States and Australia. In con-
nection herewith I attach a clipping from the Cape Times of the 8th
instant :
Those who are interested in the promotion of the Colonial timber trade will be
somewhat alarmed to hear of the arrival from Australia of a cargo of timber, much
of it consisting of wagon wood and other forms of manufactured timber which can be
produced in the Colony. The cargo was brought by the ship Esempio, which arrived
here from Hamelin on Tuesday, and consisted of 1,638 pieces of timber, 5 bundles of
pickets, 2 bundles of laths, 2 bundles of shingles, 1 bundle of spokes, and 16 bundles
of felloes, for this port, and 3,612 pieces of timber for Port Elizabeth.
DUTY AND PRICES.
The import duty is 4 cents per cubic foot.
The prices of lumber are as follows :
Yellow-wood planks (native) per cnbe.. $0.60
Stinkwood planks (native) do .84
Walnut, 1^-inch board per M.. 126.00
Ash, 1-inch board do 61.00
Poplar, plain, 1-inch board do 40. 00
figured, 1-inch board do 80.00
CLIMATE.
The climate of this district is hot and dry during November, Decem-
ber, January, and February 5 occasional rains in March ; a good deal
of rain in April, May, June, and July, while August, September, and
October (spring months), are delightful in every way. No snow or frost
ever comes, and flowers are in bloom all through the year. The northern
part of the district (in the South African Republic and Orange Free
State) enjoys a little cooler weather during the winter months, but is
flooded with water at this season.
GENERAL BUILDING.
There is a good deal of general building all through the district,
and some railroad building west from Beira to Salisbury, though the
number of miles to be finished this year is only 45. I know of no ship-
building.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
Considerable wood has lately been ordered from the Puget Sound
district for use at Kimberly and other inland points. The removal of
our tariif on wool, which is largely produced here, will doubtless stim-
ulate this section to purchase American products in return, and Amer-
ican interests in mining and trade generally are already large in this
locality.
