310 YEARBOOK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
American locomotive. From "whip .sawing," in which the boards
were sawed out by hand, to the modern steam sawmill, with its rail-
road (PI. XXX), its planing mill, and its cut of nearly half a million
board feet per day, is a long step but it has not taken much over
fifty years to accomplish it. In effective methods for the harvesting
and manufacture of lumber the American lumberman has no superior,
nor is he equaled in his disregard for the future of the forest which
he cuts.
SOME RESULTS TO BE SECURED BY CONSERVATIVE LUMBERING.
It is natural that the lumberman should not turn eagerly from a
system whose only aim is to secure the highest possible present profit
from the forest to one which includes provisions for the production
of a second crop upon the lumbered area. Under conservative methods
lumbering becomes a legitimate industry for the production as well as
for the consumption of its staple. It no longer offers, however, the
short cut to fortune which it proved to be so long as an abundance of
timber rendered the old methods of lumbering possible. It is difficult
for lumbermen generally to realize that the time for practical forestry
has fully arrived. But signs more significant than any existing statis-
tics point to the imminent failure in the supply of certain timbers
in the United States. From the data available, there is no way to
foretell accurately the time necessary to exhaust this supply of mer-
chantable timber at the present rate of consumption. A good many
estimates of the merchantable timber standing have been made, some
of which have already proved fallacious. To predict accurately how
long it will be before the United States is confronted by a timber
famine would require first of all a knowledge of the composition,
qualit} 7 , and condition of the forests, which it would take many
years to obtain. At present such an estimate is of little practical
value. We do know that the supply of timber of many kinds is fail-
ing, of other kinds is almost exhausted, and of others is practically
gone; that Black Walnut is no more to be had except in small quan-
tities and at enormous expense; that first-growth W T hite Pine is grow-
ing rapidly to be a rarity on the market; that where the supply of
spruce for pulpwood and for lumber for the next ten years is to be
found is a grave question before the lumbermen to-da} T . The list of
woods accepted as merchantable lengthens from year to year, species
hitherto considered valueless being harvested more and more willingly
as the result of the exhaustion of more valuable kinds. In spite of
steady improvement in tools, logging outfit*, and mill machinery, all
tending to cheapen the cost of lumbering, the price of lumber inciva>e-
steadily and rapidly. These are facts more significant than predic-
tions in terms of years of the life of the lumber industry. The exact
period for which the existing supplies are sufficient is a matter of
