INFLUENCE OF FORESTRY UPON LUMBER INDUSTRY. 311
detail. The vital point lies in the crisis which the lumber industry is
approaching in the exhaustion of the material on which its existence
depends. (See Pis. XXXI and XXXII.)
ELIMINATION OF THE LARGE SAWMILL.
The general application of forestry to forest lands owned by lumber-
men will probably result in the gradual elimination of the large saw-
mill and the substitution of those of moderate size. The mammoth
milling plant will be rare when only second growth is left to supply
it, for the area of timber land sufficient to produce the logs necessary
to run such a plant is enormous. It is reasonable to expect that the
mill of moderate size, supplied by a forest whose production is equal
to the mill's annual capacity, both under the same management, will
become more and more the rule. The very existence of the enor-
mous mill is the result of an abundance of timber resources, which
exist no longer except in a very few sections. In Europe the long-
continued application of conservative measures in lumbering has
resulted in a distribution and type of sawmill little known in this
country. Sawmills of large size do not exist, but in their stead small
sawmills, for which water generally supplies the power, are distributed
throughout the country wherever the local demand is sufficient to keep
them running. Their annual cut is for the most part exceedingly
small, according to our standards, and sufficient only to supply the
wants of the immediately adjacent country. The mills saw largely on
order, and the fact that their construction is permanent and their mo-
tive power cheap enables them to run intermittently without loss.
The results are upon the whole exceedingly satisfactory. The man
who wants lumber gets it promptly, and without pa} T ing an added cost
for long transportation. The antiquated construction of European
sawmills is often such that the American lumberman would find in
them but a proof of his superior ingenuity; but the European distri-
bution of milling plants has its strong advantages in several ways.
DEVELOPMENT OF A TRAINED CLASS OF FOREST WORKERS.
The general application of conservative methods in lumbering will
inevitably result, as has been the case in Europe, in the development
of a permanent class of men trained to forest work. Under present
methods this result can never be attained to the same degree. The
lumbering in one community is generally so short-lived that there is
neither time nor necessity to train up a body of men on the ground to
carry out the work. The result is that Maine and Michigan woodsmen
are found working in the hardwoods of the Southern Appalachians;
loggers from Wisconsin and Minnesota are helping to cut the redwood
on the Pacific coast; and in each of the great timber regions there is a
mingling of lumbermen from several of the others. The effect has
been to develop, by constant labor at their trade under widely varying
