312 YEARBOOK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
conditions, a force of men who are unequaled for enterprise and skill
in their profession; but the system has very largely failed in what is
of infinitely greater importance to the permanent welfare of the lumber
industry the upbuilding throughout the country of a stable rlass of
workers in the woods, locally trained and carrying on their work each
in his own community. The advantages of such a condition lie in an
equitable geographical distribution of labor, in the wholesome influ-
ence throughout the country of a class whose means of livelihood is
forest work, and in the fact that all the operations of lumbering may
in this wa}^ be conducted more cheaply than in any other.
INFLUENCE OF FORESTRY UPON THE PRICES OF LUMBER.
The effect upon the prices of lumber which will result from the
application of forestry to the lumber industry will be strongly marked.
The wide fluctuation characteristic of lumber values to-day is much
more the result of conditions within the industry itself than of varia-
tions in the demand for the product of the forest. The uncertainty
of available supplies, the lack of true proportion between stumpage
values and lumber values, the speculative features which the industry
now presents, have all tended to produce an exceedingly unstable and
abnormal fluctuation in the prices of lumber, with a marked disposition
toward rapid increase. Under forestry the speculative element can
not exist. The cost of producing timber, plus a legitimate profit,
will be the basis upon which the value of it will be fixed. The annual
output of the country will be no longer a matter of conjecture, and a
steady and normal range of prices for lumber will be the inevitable
result.
CONCLUSION.
The influence of forestry upon the lumber industry is not a matter
of conjecture. The details will have to work themselves out, but the
broad results of conservative forest policy on the part of private
owners are plain. The lumber industry in the United States is
approaching a crisis. There is no more doubt that conservative meth-
ods will be applied to lumbering in this country than there is of the
development of irrigation, of regulation of grazing, of the application
of improved methods in agriculture, or of any other modification to
which private as well as public interests point the way. Hou long
it will be before the results of practical forestry make themselves gen-
erally felt it is impossible to foretell; but the fact remains that there
will be established in this as in other countries in which conservative
lumbering has followed wasteful lumbering a legitimate and perma-
nent industry, characterized, as has been stated, by conditions under
which speculation can not exist. Prices will continue normal and
steady, and the quantity of timber produced will be the main factor in
regulating consumption.
