AMERICA.
DOMINION OF CANADA.
NEW BRUNSWICK AND NOVA SCOTIA.
I inclose circular from the house of Hon. J. B. Snowball, Chatham,
New Brunswick, relating to the lumber trade in the maritime provinces
for 1893. Mr. Snowball is a senator representing New Brunswick in
the upper Dominion house, and issues a similar circular yearly, which
is generally copied into the newspapers as authoritative on the matter
to which it relates.
DARIUS H. INGRAHAM,
Consul- General.
HALIFAX, January 11, 1894.
[J. B. Snowball's Miramichi Wood Trade Circular for the year 1893.]
CHATHAM, NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA, December SO, 1893.
The winter of 1892-'93 proved the most favorable for log-getting of any we
have had for many years, consequently we had a much larger output for the force
employed than was anticipated. Spring freshets were poor, and driving expensive.
About 10,000,000 superficial feet of logs were left in the brooks.
Notwithstanding the favorable season, the export from this port fell off 12,000,000
superficial feet from last year. And while the exports from St. John were 10,000,000
more than in 1892, still the exports for the province show a decrease of 13,000,000.
The increased export from Nova Scotia is caused by the excessive quantity of birch
deals shipped from that province.
The present winter is the most severe experienced here for twenty years. Snow
is now deeper all over eastern Canada than any time last winter. Operations in
this district were entered into on a limited scale, and with an anticipated produc-
tion of 25 per cent less than last year, but the severe weather is likely to reduce the
production below this estimate, and next year's export from this port must be small.
The proposed United States tariff, if adopted for wood goods, will have an indirect
beneficial effect on the trade of this section of New Brunswick. Freight rates from
eastern New Brunswick to United States ports are so high in comparison with those
from St. John and Bay of Fundy ports that our trade in that direction is about nil,
excepting in laths and shingles, but under the proposed tariff the export of a consid-
erable portion of the southern and western portions of this province is likely to be
attracted to American ports, leaving more of the transatlantic trade to be supplied
from this section.
11
