AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 15
MEXICO.
LA PAZ.
NATIVE WOODS.
Lower California, being divested of natural forests of pine and other
timber, such as could be made useful for mining, shipbuilding, the
manufacture of household articles, and for house material, is entirely
dependent upon the Pacific ports and markets of the United States for
applies.
The native woods, existing in some of the valleys of the peninsula,
are of no importance and can not be made available for any building
purposes. The soil and climate are not adapted to timber-growing.
This, together with the scarcity of rains and the lack of running
streams, precludes it from ever becoming a timber country.
Boxwood, vainoro, sorrillo, yellowwood, Brazil or dyewoods of sev-
eral kinds, ironwood, palo bianco, torote, and several others, found
chiefly in the valleys, form the nucleus of the principal woods of the
country. Some have fine grain, capable of high polish, but the trees
are too small in size for the timber to be of any utility. Nevertheless
the high range of mountains, running through the middle of the coun-
try, is more wooded than the lowlands. Palm trees of majestic heights,
oak, pine, and fir, as well as the Hueribo, a gigantic tree and a species
of cedar, can be seen in the gulches and crests of the mountains, which
offer so many difficulties as to be out of reach for all practical purposes.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
The imports of lumber are exclusively from Oregon, Washington,
and California. Eedwood, pine, and white cedar are the kinds imported
and preferred. About 2,000,000 feet of lumber are required to meet the
rearly consumption.
PRICES.
The following are the wholesale and retail prices per foot of lumber:
Cents.
Ordinary lumber of different dimensions 4 to 54
Planed of different dimensions 5 and 6
Pine flooring of different dimensions 6 and 7
White cedar of different dimensions 10 and 12
DUTY.
The import duty on pine lumber is as follows: Pine flooring, $1 for
100 square meters ; white planed cedar, 2 cents per kilogram j all others,
common redwood and pine lumber, are on the free list.
