SUM MARY
Western softwoods generally fell in price during the second quarter of 1911. This decline was par-
ticu'arly noticeable for Douglas fir in Oregon; for western red cedar, Douglas fir, white fir, western yellow
piiu , and Sitka spruce in Washington; for western yellow pine in Idaho; and for western larch in Montana.
In California, western yellow pine fell, but the distinctive commodity, redwood, advanced, particularly in
the Clear 6" to 12", 10' to 20' grade and Common boards No. 2. In Oregon, western yellow pine remained
fairly steady while Sitka spruce advanced. Western hemlock averaged about the same at the Wash-
ington mills. This was also true of western white pine in Idaho and of western yellow pine in Montana
and Colorado. Compared with the corresponding period of 1910, western softwoods were generally low
in price.
Excepting in Louisiana and Mississippi, the eastern softwood prices for the first two quarters of 1911
held substantially firm. Louisiana, however, showed an increase over the first quarter in every grade
of yellow pine except Flooring, B, v. g. 13|16"x3", which fell 24 cents per thousand. This grade was
stable in Mississippi while all other grades of yellow pine advanced except B and better car siding, which
dropped 90 cents. North Carolina pine advanced in Virginia, especially in the case of No. 1 edge 4|4,
under 12". In Tennessee, Kentucky and New York, the upper grades of hemlock showed improvement.
General improvement in hemlock prices was also seen in Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, New Hamp-
shire and Vermont. Hemlock mill run prices fell in Maine, Massachusetts and Connecticut. White
pine mill run prices fell in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts, and increased in New York, New Hampshire,
Vermont, Maine and Connecticut. In the last named State, the advance was slightly better than $2.00
per thousand. Michigan and Wisconsin white pine prices averaged about the same, but in Minnesota a
decrease was felt in every grade, particularly in Selects C and better, and Shop No. 3. Spruce prices
generally held constant in West Virginia, New York and Vermont. In New Hampshire, however,
improvement was felt in every grade, particularly Merch. 2"x8" and up, 10' to 24' boards. The reverse
c mdition occurred in Maine and Massachusetts. Merch. 2"x8" and up and.Lath, If", especially, declined
, the mills in Maine.
A comparison of the second quarter of 1911 with the corresponding period of 1910 shows a slight
eneral improvement this year in eastern softwood prices. All grades of yellow pine advanced in Texas;
j "1 but B and better car siding, in Mississippi; all but B and better car siding and No. 1 Common car
lining in Arkansas; and all but Timbers S1S1E, in Alabama. In Louisiana, the upper grades of yellow
pine advanced and the lower grades fell. Yellow pine generally declined in North Carolina and Tennessee.
Hemlock declined in Tennessee, West Virginia and Maine; advanced in Pennsylvania, New Hampshire
and Vermont; and remained generally stable in Wisconsin and Michigan. White pine advanced in Maine
and, except for No. 4 Boards, Fencing and Mill Run, in Michigan. In Minnesota and Wisconsin, white
pine remained fairly uniform. Spruce showed a decline in West Virginia and Maine, but advanced in
Vermont.
Hardwood prices of the second quarter averaged about the same as those of the first quarter of 1911.
Ash showed special improvement in Arkansas, Missouri, Tennessee, Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York.
In New York, basswood First and Seconds advanced over $5.00 per thousand, but remained $2.50 below
the price received during the same period of 1910. Birch, unselected, advanced in West Virginia, New
York and Vermont; declined throughout all grades in Michigan; and was practically stable in Wiscon-
sin. Chestnut showed particular gains in Ohio, Firsts and Seconds advancing nearly $4.00, and Mill Run
advancing $2.25 per thousand. Cottonwood prices were characterized by increases in Arkansas, decreases
of all grades in Mississippi, and general stability in the other States. Cypress held substantially firm
except in Missouri, where increases of one to two dollars per thousand occurred. Gum remained generally
steady but increased for all grades in Mississippi. Hickory brought much better prices at the Pennsylvania
mills, and held firm in the other States. Hard maple advanced in West Virginia and Wisconsin. Plain
oak showed general improvement; quartered red oak declined in Mississippi, Tennessee and Ohio, but
advanced in the other States; while quartered white oak remained about the same. Poplar fell in Missis-
sippi, Alabama, North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia, but increased in Indiana and Ohio. On the
whole, prices for the second quarter of 1911 compared well with the prices of the same period of 1910.
Hard maple showed general improvement, especially at the West Virginia mills. Quartered white oak
showed decided improvement in Missouri, but averaged lower in the other States.
