SUMMARY.
Comparing the prices of western softwoods for the third quarter with the preceding
quarter for 1911, there was a slight general decline, though a few woods showed improve-
ment. Douglas fir was slightly lower. Flooring No. 2 flat, V x 4", decreased 80
cents in Oregon and $1.40 in Washington. There was a fall in the prices of western red
cedar, and also white fir, western hemlock, larch, Sitka spruce, and western spruce as
well. The better grades of western yellow pine were slightly lower in Oregon, though
in other States all grades generally improved. Sugar pine showed the greatest increase
of the western softwoods. Shop No. 2, 2" x 8" and wider, brought $2.16 more, and
firsts and seconds clear $5.60 more than in the second quarter. Prices of western
white pine, including Idaho white pine, were generally higher. In Idaho the increase
was from $1.50 to $3.25, according to the grade. California redwood was the other
western softwood to record a notable increase. The advance of common boards No. 1
amounted to $3.16.
Of the eastern softwoods, hemlock in the Lake States and Eastern States held sub-
stantially firm with the prices of the second quarter. The greatest variation was in
Michigan, where a few of the upper grades showed a reduction of 60 cents. The
prices of spruce in New England fell, the decrease in Vermont and Maine ranging for
the lower grades from $1.33 to $1.50. The reverse was the status in West Virginia.
Here merchantable spruce boards V x 12 " 1(K to 20 7 and box boards 1" x 4" x 12'
rose in price. The latter increased 73 cents and the former $1.03. Prices for white
pine were recorded from 12 States. For the mill-run grade there was general uni-
formity with prices of the second quarter except in Wisconsin and Minnesota, where
the decrease ranged from $1 to $1.50. In Tennessee this grade scored the only marked
improvement; the increase was $1.88. The upper grades of white pine brought better
prices, "selects" making an advance of from $3.30 to $4 in Wisconsin and Michigan
No. 1 shop rose to $2.95 in Michigan and in Minnesota to $1.67. In Wisconsin, West
Virginia, and Tennessee this grade of white pine was staple. Prices of yellow pine,
the most abundant of the eastern softwoods, showed slight general improvement in all
grades, especially throughout the Mississippi Valley States. The most notable increase
was in Alabama, where common boards No. 1, S2S \" x 10", and No. 2, S2S V x 8"
amounted to, respectively, $1.07 and 74 cents. The most marked decrease was in
Georgia and Florida, where the three grades of B and better flooring showed a decline
of from $1.75 to $5. Generally there were indications of slight improvement in South
Carolina, but in North Carolina there was no appreciable change.
Compared with the second quarter, hardwood prices varied considerably, according
to species and locality. Ash showed improvement in Ohio, Tennessee, and Kentucky,
but in Virginia and West Virginia experienced a decline. Basswood increased in the
Southern States, but in the Lake States the prices were slightly depressed. Birch,
firsts and seconds, scored an advance of over $2 in West Virginia, and in Michigan
$1.15, but in New York and Vermont prices were lower. No decreases were noted in
any State in the prices of chestnut; the largest increase was in Tennessee and West
Virginia, where firsts and seconds rose as much as $2 per M. Cypress prices improved
in all States, while gum remained generally staple except in Mississippi, where
firsts and seconds advanced $1.75. Hickory prices were higher in Wisconsin and
West Virginia, remained generally firm in the Southern States, and showed recessions
3
