18 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
GENERAL BUILDING.
Qnite a number of buildings are now being constructed in Nogales,
but there is no construction of railroads at present in this district.
EXTENSION OF TRADE.
With the excessive American duty removed on lead ores, and the
return to an ad valorem duty on cattle, I believe that Sonora would
become a much greater purchaser of American products in the future.
There are merchants in Hermosillo and Gvaymas who purchase from
$100,000 to $500,000 worth of merchandise annually, yet very few of our
commercial salesmen go beyond Xogales, thus leaving all this immense
business to be secured by our European competitors.
EEUBEN D. GEORGE,
Vice- Consul.
NOGALES, December 30, 1893.
VERA CRUZ.
NATIVE WOODS.
The native woods are: Mahogany, ebony, cedar, almond, hazel, bal-
sam, passion flower, guachichil (a hard wood), also, laurel, weeping
willow, manchinille, birds-eye, violet wood, rosewood, lignum vitas,
primrose, sopota both white and black (a wood of fine grain), indigo.
Annatto, Brazil wood, logwood, green ebony, mastic, mangrove, fustic
tawney wood, mountain hyssop, archil, madder. All these woods grow
in this consular district, but only a few of them are much used.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
The kinds used are: For building purposes cedar, mahogany, and
yellow pine. The pine conies from the United States and is preferred
to native lumber. My observation leads me to suppose that cedar and
mahogany are used, where heavy timber is required, and pine where-
ever inch lumber is used. More pine is used than cedar and more
cedar than mahogany. Some of the other woods are used in the manu-
facture of chests and fine furniture, but these are too expensive for
ordinary use.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
There is no lumber imported from any foreign country but the United
States, and all lumber from there consumed here, comes from Piisca-
go ula, except that used in the manufacturing of soap boxes, which
comes in shooks from the port of New York, being put together here,
There is quite an extensive trade in this kind of material.
