20 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
CENTRAL AMERICA.
BRITISH HONDURAS.
NATIVE WOODS.
It is difficult to suggest in what manner the lumber exports from the
United States to this colony may be increased, as nearly all the lumber
used for building purposes at present is American. The native woods
used in building houses and boats form but a very small item in the
total, because, until very recently, only one sawmill was in operation
here, and that was mainly used by the firm who own it for their own
private purposes. Two new sawmills have been erecfced in the past
two years, and they bid fair to compete with the United States for a
share of the lumber business, as there are undoubtedly many fine varie-
ties of woods suitable for all purposes to be found in the forests of this
colony.
Of cabinet woods, besides the well-known mahogany and cedar, there
is an abundant supply, as will be seen from the inclosed list of woods,
which is by no means an exhaustive one.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
The kinds of wood principally imported are white and pitch pine
and cypress, all of which are used in house and boat building.
IMPORT DUTIES AND PRICES.
No lumber is imported from any other country than the United
States.
A duty of $1 per 1,000 feet on rough and $1.50 on dressed lumber is
collected by the Government.
Lumber in the rough sells here for $50 per 1,000 feet and dressed
lumber at $55 to $60.
CLIMATE.
The climate of this country is generally very healthy and although
yellow fever, cholera, and smallpox have, on one or two occasions, vis-
ited its shores, these diseases have never originated here, but were
always brought in, and were readily stamped out. The types of these
diseases, when they have existed here, seem to have been much milder
than in other countries, especially the first-named disease. Vaccination
is compulsory and hence but few of the inhabitants of towns died from
smallpox during its last visit in 1891, when it was brought here from
Peten, in Guatemala, the deaths being confined almost entirely to the
