PREFATORY NOTE.
The Forest Service has two main purposes in collecting and compiling this record
of f . o. b. mill prices: First, to have a continuous statistical record of such prices of the
various commercial woods; and, second, to show, in contrast to market prices which
include the important items of freight charges and selling costs just what the manu-
facturers of lumber receive for their product at the mill. The prices given are whole-
sale, based on actual sales f. o. b. mill, for delivery outside of local territory, Only
a few representative grades and the mill run are included. By "mill run" is meant
the average of all grades of lumber produced. The record is compiled by States, and
is made up from reports received from approximately 3,000 of the largest manufac-
turers scattered throughout the country. It is published quarterly.
The Forest Service wishes to acknowledge "the courtesy of the manufacturers for
their prompt and efficient cooperation. Their assistance has been of great value in
making the record complete, accurate, and promptly available for distribution.
The Forest Service is engaged in many investigations of interest to lumber manu-
facturers. The work as now organized comprises studies in the physical properties
of wood; air-seasoning and kiln-drying; strength tests upon commercial timbers of
the United States; wood preservation, including the study of different preservatives
and methods of impregnation; softwood and hardwood distillation; wood pulp and
paper; naval stores; and wood utilization, which includes studies of the wood-using
industries of various States, the collection and compilation of statistics of forest
products and wholesale lumber prices, etc. Reports on these investigations are
published from time to time, and are available to the trade upon request.
A copy of any of the following recent statistical reports may be obtained by address-
ing the Forester, Forest Service, Washington, D. C.:
Forest Products, No. 1, Pulp-Wood Consumption, 1910.
Forest Products, No. 2, Lumber, Lath, and Shingles, 1910.
Forest Products, No. 3, Slack Cooperage Stock, 1910.
Forest Products, No. 5, Veneers, 1910.
Forest Products, No. 6, Tight Cooperage Stock, 1910.
Forest Products, No. 7, Wood Distillation, 1910.
Forest Products, No. 8, Crossties Purchased, 1910.
Forest Products, No. 9, Poles Purchased, 1910.
4048612 3
