AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 23
cut into convenient logs suitable for shipment. It is claimed for Honduras logwood
that it is superior to that grown in Jamaica and St. Domingo, and that its market
value is fully 40 per cent higher. The yield of this wood is almost inexhaustible, as
it seeds freely, and can be recut in ten to fifteen years. Its original value was 100
per ton, then 40; in 1825, 16; and it is now quoted at 5 to 7. Its export from
the colony in 1713 to 1716 was 5,740 tons; in 1824, over 4,000; in 1874, 9,210 tons,
The average for the last ten years has been 16,000 tons.
Its production for shipment requires less capital than mahogany, and is frequently
undertaken by small capitalists employing small gangs, who pay a royalty for cufc
ting on the estates.
It is brought down the rivers in "bark logs," or floating cradles made of the cab-
bage palm, and in dorays, in which it is also conveyed along the coast.
Amongst the other woods of the colony are
The Sapodilla (Achias sapota). This is a most durable wood, difficult, on actoum
of its extreme hardness, to work, but it does work up handsomely in furniture. The
tree grows tall and free from branches, and one variety bears a sweet fruit with a
rough rind, the naseberry, the seeds of which are used as a diuretic. It ia much
used locally for uprights and beams in house carpentry, but owing to the greas
weight of the logs can not be floated down the rivers to the ports. If this liUnculty
of transportation be overcome say by the introduction of railways ihis wood
must find its way to European and other markets in much larger shipments than is
the case now. At present it can hardly be said to be exported. Tbtjre are two
varieties, the black and the red, one rather scarcer than the other and not half so
lofty, although about the same girth. It is a tree which grows abundantly in
Honduras.
Rosewood (Dalbergia sp.). A very heavy, rich, dark-reddish wood, very desirable
for cabinet purposes, and plentiful in the colony, growing to a, height of 5>0 feet,
with a girth of 36 to 38 inches. Owing to its weight it is difficult to transport by
water, an obstacle to the exportation of many of the native furniture woods yet to
be overcome; about 150 to 200 tons are probably the average exportation. The so-
called Bastard Rose is a distinct variety, the wood of which w-rks up much redder
in color; and there is another illegitimate of the family, the MX, found in the colony.
Sam or salmwood (Jacaranda sp.). A brown, very durable wood. On account of
its being avoided by all kinds of insects, it is much appreciated for lining ward-
robes, etc. It would, therefore, be very suitable for specimen cases for collectors of
natural history objects, especially entomological specimens. The tree grows 50 feet
high, with an average diameter of 2 feet. It is not exported.
Ziricote is by some considered a description of rosewood. Mr. Moms, director of
Botanical Garden, Jamaica, who made a professional tour through the colony a
)w years ago, at the request of the colonial government, states it to be scarce, but it
abundant in the northern district. It is only exported in small quantities. The
ime authority classes it amongst other timbers of the colony as yet unclassified
id unknown to commerce.
Fustic. A yellow dyewood ; is well known to commerce and the trade ; the Morus
tinctoria. It is used locally for furniture work, and about 100 tons are annually
exported.
Poisonwood. Of so-called poisonwood there are apparently three varieties, but
"Chechem" is simply the Indian name for all kinds of wood locally so designated.
The trees are so named on account of their secreting an acrid juice which, dropping
on the skin of the woodcutter, blisters it ; and a local authority, a writer in the Colo-
nial Guardian, reviewing the preliminary exhibition in Belize, describes the "Che-
chem" as a kind of Upas, to be under the shade of which for any time inflames the
skin of the face and the eyes. The writer calls the wood of the same tree the " King
of Woods," but he means of cabinet woods. The trees of the black variety are large
and umbrageous, and both kinds grow abundantly in the region, the height averag-
