OPPORTUNITIES FOB PURCHASING NATIONAL FOREST TIMBER.
The National Forests contain nearly 590 billion feet of merchantable stumpage. The
mature timber, which constitutes a large part of the total stand, is for sale. The more
accessible bodies may be purchased in blocks of practically any desired size up to 100
million feet. Less accessible stumpage which requires a large investment for the con-
struction of transportation facilities may be purchased in larger quantities of sufficient
size to justify the investment in improvements. Applications up to 1 billion feet
will be approved if the investment required necessitates the purchase of a body of
that size under one contract.
The procedure for purchasing National Forest timber is extremely simple. Appli-
cations specifying the amount, species, and general location desired may be sent to the
offices of the Forest Service at Washington, D. C.; Chicago, 111.; Missoula, Mont.;
Denver, Colo.; Albuquerque, N. Mex.; Ogden, Utah; San Francisco, Gal.; and Port-
land, Oreg. Advertisement at a fixed minimum price is required by law for at least
30 days. The timber is then awarded to the highest bidder and the sale completed
by execution of the contract stating the amount and location of the stumpage, the
etumpage rates, and the conditions under which the timber shall be removed.
The contract requirements have been prepared by practical lumbermen and per-
fected by the experience gained in the administration of several thousand sales. They
are adapted to the local conditions as to topography, size of the timber, and logging
methods. That they are eminently practical is demonstrated by the fact that some
375 million feet are cut each year under these requirements by lumbermen all over
the West.
Sufficient time is permitted for the removal of the amount purchased under local
conditions of logging and manufacture. The time is gauged, however, to require
continuous operation at a reasonable rate and does not permit the holding of stumpage
for speculative increases in value. The timber to be cut is designated by the forest
officers. Either clean cutting, or partial cutting taking 70 to 80 per cent of the stump-
age, is employed, depending upon the character of the timber and the best methods
of securing new forest growth. Simple precautions are required to protect the uncut
timber and young growth, and the disposal of slash by burning, either with or without
piling, is necessary.
These requirements may increase the cost of logging from 50 to 75 cents a thousand
feet over the usual cost on private holdings. The difference is always considered in
appraising the value of the stumpage. Furthermore, an operator who buys National
Forest timber has to make practically no investment at the outset for his stumpage,
has no carrying charges for interest or taxes, and incurs practically no fire risk. He is
required simply to pay for the timber as it is removed in advance deposits, which
represent usually but the value of a month and a half's cut.
These are obvious advantages, particularly when extended over an operation of 10
or 15 years. As private stumpage is cut out in many of the old lumbering centers,
operators will find, in the timber on the National Forests, new opportunities for manu-
facture under advantageous conditions.
16
O
