PREFATORY NOTE.
The purposes of the Forest Service in collecting and compiling this record of
f. o. b. mill prices is to have a continuous statistical record of such prices of
the various commercial woods. The prices given are wholesale, based on actual
sales f. o. b. mill, for delivery outside of local territory. Only a few representa-
tive grades and the mill run are included. By " mill run " is meant the average
of all grades of lumber produced. The record is compiled by States, and is
made up from reports received from the largest manufacturers throughout the
country.
The Forest Service wishes to acknowledge the courtesy of the manufacturers
for their prompt and efficient cooperation.
The Forest Service is engaged in many investigations of interest to lumber
manufacturers. The work as now organized comprises studies in the physical
properties of wood ; air-seasoning and kiln-drying ; strength tests upon commer-
cial timbers of the United States; wood preservation, including the study of
different preservatives and methods of impregnation; softwood and hardwood
distillation; wood pulp and paper; naval stores; and wood utilization, which
includes studies of the wood-using industries of various States, the collection
and compilation of statistics of forest products, etc. Reports on these investi-
gations are published from time to time, and are available to the trade upon
request.
A copy of any of the following recent reports may be obtained by addressing
the Editor and Chief, Division of Publications, United States Department of
Agriculture, Washington, D. C. :
Forest Service Bulletins:
308. Tests of Structural Timbers.
109. Distillation of Resinous Wood by Saturated Steam.
110. The Specific Heat of Wood.
112. Fire-killed Douglas Fir; A Study of its Rate of Deterioration, Usability,
and Strength.
Forest Service Circulars :
1 98. Condition of Experimental Chestnut Poles in the Warren - Buffalo and
Poughkeepsie-Newton Square Lines After Five and Eight Years' Service.
200. Absorption of Creosote by Cell Walls of Wood.
206. Commercial Creosotes With Special Reference to Protection of Wood from
Decay.
Division of Publications Circular 11 List of Available Publications of the
Forest Service.
3
