24 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
ing between 80 and 100 feet, diameter 24 to 30 inches. The white variety of "Che-
chem" appears to be the largest in its growth.
Santa Maria (Calopkyllum calaba). Very suitable for shingles and heavy machine
work and buildings ; its seeds also yield an abundant oil adapted for lamps. It is
unsurpassed for shipbuilding. Height, 80 feet; diameter, 24 inches. The woad is
hard and durable, and is used in the construction of mahogany trucks.
Mahol (Paritum datum). Yields a darkish-green wood of great value, as also the
celebrated Cuba bast, an article of commerce prepared from the inner layers of the
bark.
Balsam (Myroxylon tolifera). Average height 40 feet and diameter 20 inches. It
resembles both mahogany and sapodilla, the latter most in color of the wood. Both
the gum and bark are used medicinally.
Bullet, or Bully Tree. Height 60 to 80 feet, with a diameter of 18 inches. Plenti-
ful. Wood not very workable, and therefore not much used. Tree yields a resinous
gum.
Timber-sweet. A low, stout tree, bearing a yellow berry ; 25 to 30 feet in height, 24
to 30 inches diameter. Wood light; not used.
Madre Cacao (Erythrina umbrosa). A plentiful tree. Height 40 to 50 feet, 15 inches
in diameter. A fine hard wood, much used in house posts, and also as a shade in
cofi'ee and cacao plantations. Mr. Morris suggests as a preferable shade for cacao
the India-rubber plant, giving more shade and very profitable to the planter. Grows
easily from slips.
Bastard JRoseicood. Plentiful. Grows to 40 or 50 feet, 12 inches in diameter.
Wood takes a high polish and is very tough.
White Maya. A very tough wood, and takes a polish. The tree grows 60 feet, with
20 inches in diameter.
Calabash (Crescentia cujete). A pretty growing tree, with the leaves peculiarly
arranged on the branches (subpinnate). The edible pulp of the large round nut is
hollowed out, and drinking cups are made of the shell.
Cabbage-bark Tree. Grows plentifully, 40 feet by 15 or 20 inches ; the wood hard
and durable, used in house building and in the composition of trucks or spokes, &c.
Cinnamon, Wild. Plenty of it ; 30 feet by 16 to 18 inches diameter. Bark only
used.
Buttonwood. Extensively usedl ocally to burn ; is occasionally introduced as a vari-
ety in inlaid-cabinet work or veneering. The tree is not above 20 feet by 16 or 18
inches thick, and grows in swampy places. Used for ships' timbers.
Salaam. A hard, durable wood, little known. Locally used for furniture, inlaid
work, and capable of taking a fine polish.
Blackheart. The tree attains a height of 30 feet, with a diameter of 12 inches.
Wood hard, yellowish-brown in color, with a deep-colored heart. Takes a high
polish.
Billy Webb. In local use only. Height, 30 feet; diameter, about 24 inches. Used
in constructing mahogany slides and trucks. It is plentiful, and an exceedingly
tough wood.
Grandy Betty. Grows plentifully ; 40 feet by 12 inches. Wood not in use. Leaves
used for a decoction.
Boy's Job. Plentiful ; 30 or 40 feet by 18 inches. A tough, hard wood; not in use,
except the leaves medicinally and for snake bites.
John Crow. Plentiful; 35 feet by 16 inches. Not used.
Pigeon Plum. Plentiful ; 40 to 50 feet by 12 to 15 inches.
Allspice (Pimento) (Eugenia pimenta).A. favorite wood for walking sticks. Its
seeds are known and appreciated as a spice everywhere. The tree grows plenti-
fully in the colony ; 50 feet in height and 20 inches in diameter.
Fiddlewood (Citharexylum melanocardium). Grows abundantly. A straight tree
with copious foliage and branches, 50 to 60 feet in height, 5 feet in diameter. Little
used.
