AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 25
Dogwood (Plscidia erythrina). This is a tree of the genus Cornus, of which there
are several species, exceedingly hard, called, also, dogwood. Javin is a variety of
this wood with an Indian name. The trees grow large and straight, 80 to 100 feet,
24 to 30 inches diameter, and the wood of both is used for rollers of native sugar-
mills, etc. Javin is slightly the hardest.
Granadilla. Not to be confounded with the vine granadilla bearing a luscious
fruit. This tree grows 80 feet high, and is 2 feet thick. It produces a hard, dura-
ble, finely grained red timber, and is abundant in the region. It rises 50 feet with-
out a limb, and is therefore a conspicuous forest tree. The wood is used in furni-
ture and house decoration.
Iromvood (Laplacea hcematoxylon). Every timber region has its own ironwood.
This is an exceedingly hard, dark reddish wood, with a very fine grain. Tree 25 feet
high, 10 inches in diameter.
Polewood. So called, as it is used for poles to propel canoes and rivercraft in shal-
low places ; height, 60 to 80 feet, 10 to 12 inches diameter. Grows straight and reg-
ular and is a little used in house carpentry.
Axmaster. A tree the woodman takes his hat off to or gives it the go-by when he
can. A dark wood taking a shining polish, 40 feet by 18 inches diameter. Not much
used ; the tree blunts the ax and the wood resists a nail.
Lignum vitce.
Fix orpij.Tvro bastard varieties of L. vitce, evidently. The fruit is scarce, and is
not used when found here, at all events. It attains a height of 40 feet, and is 12
inches thick, as a rule, when grown. Plentiful, straight-bodied, 40 feet in height, 10
inches diameter. Timber used for fence posts, and the twigs make very lasting
thatch.
Teabox. A slender tree, not used, producing an edible berry and leaves, of which
a decoction, "bush, tea," is made. Thirty feet high, 10 to 12 inches diameter.
Prickly yellow. Plentifully found. A straight-growing tree, 30 feet in height, 5 or
6 inches in diameter. Wood used for hoe and other agricultural tool handles.
Silly Young. A large tree of 100 feet growth, producing durable house timber,
which is also used for slides to slide mahogany and cedar logs.
Goodluck. A fine hardwood, looking like dark-brown satin when polished. Prob-
ably a variety of the salinwood.
Redwood. A strong-bodied tree of 60 to 80 feet growth and 12 inches thick. Wood
hard and durable, used for fence posts and in house building, and lasting well.
Turtle lone. A ponderous and hard wood, light yellow, taking a fine polish. Grow-
ing to a height a little under 20 feet; diameter, slight; very tough, and something
like logwood.
Wild Provision (Pachira aquatica). A common tree in moist places and river banks,
bearing a fruit the size of a small pumpkin, the seeds of which are edible. Used for
fencing posts, etc.
Crdboo or Crabeio (Byrsonima spicata). A common tree, bearing a small, acid fruit,
in size between a black currant and gooseberry, which, when sweetened, makes a
pleasant, wholesome drink. The bark is also locally used medicinally.
My Lady. Grows nearly 100 feet high and 18 inches to 2 feet diameter. A yellow
wood, taking a fine polish ; used both in house carpentry and cabinetwork.
Mangrove, Red (Rhizophora mangle).
Mangrove, black (Rhizophora sp.).
Mangrove, White (Laguncularia racemosa). The manggi of the Malays. It grows
along the seashore and river banks, rooting in the mud, the seeds germinating even
while attached to the branches. The cays or islands in the Bay of Honduras are
densely covered with it. The wood is used to burn and the bark as an astringent.
It is also used in htfUse building and occasionally in cabinetwork, also for ship-
building, in which it has a great local repute, furnishing " knees " that require little
molding into the necessary shape. Average growth, 30 to 50 feet; the black is the
