EXPLANATION OF TERMS.
IMPORTS. Goods from a foreign country entered at a customhouse.
IMPORTS FOR CONSUMPTION. The term "entry for consumption" is the technical
name of the import entry made at the customhouse, and does not imply that the goods
will be actually consumed, but simply that they have been delivered into the custody
of the importer and that the duties have been paid on the dutiable portion. Some of
them may be afterwards exported.
FOREIGN EXPORTS OR REEXPORTS. Goods which have been imported into this
country, either for reexport or for consumption, and are afterwards exported, having
undergone 110 change in form or condition or enhancement in value by the application
of labor in the United States.
DOMESTIC EXPORTS. Goods produced and manufactured from either domestic or
imported raw materials in this country and shipped to foreign countries.
TRANSIT OR IN-TRANSIT TRADE. Goods from a foreign country passing through the
United States on the way to the same or another foreign country.
TRANSSHIPMENT TRADE. Goods from a foreign country received at a United States
port and there reshipped to a foreign country without being entered as an import into
this country.
In-transit and transshipment trade is not included in the imports and exports of
the United States, but is reported separately.
THE COUNTRY OF CONSIGNMENT is that which is mentioned in the exporting or
importing documents as the one to which or from which the merchandise is to be
shipped. The regulations of the Bureau of Statistics, Department of Commerce and
Labor, are:
Collectors will consider the country in which merchandise was invoiced as the
country whence the same was imported into the United States.
In export statements the countries stated should be, so far as can be ascertained,
those for which the exports are destined for a market. * * * Exporters will be
required to state in their manifests of goods exported the country of ultimate desti-
nation.
j The country from which or to which goods are consigned may or may not be the
country of origin or ultimate destination, as the case may be; the foregoing regulation
with regard to the country of ultimate destination in export statements does not result
in a material representation of countries of ultimate destination in place of countries
of consignment in the records of the exports of this country, when these two countries
are not the same.
VALUES. The values of imported articles subject to ad valorem duties are defined by
the Act of Congress of June 10, 1890, as
The actual market value or wholesale price of such merchandise as bought and sold
in usual wholesale quantities at the time of exportation to the United States in the
principal markets of the country from whence imported, and in the condition in which
such merchandise is there bought for exportation to the United States or consigned to
the United States for sale, including the value of all cartons, cases, crates, boxes, sacks,
and coverings of any kind, and all other costs, charges, and expenses incident to plac-
ing the merchandise in condition ready for shipment to the United States.
The value of all other imports, whether subject to specific duty or free of duty, is
also determined according to the law just quoted.
1 The value of domestic exports is their declared value at the time of exportation in the
ports of the United States whence they are exported, which the law requires to be
stated under oath with penalty for misstatement.
5
