26 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
lowest in stature. Red mangrove, 60 to 80 feet; white, 80 feet; black, 50 feet.
Diameter of all, 20 inches.
Mayflower. This is a deciduous tree, and takes a fine polish ; has a profusion of
purple blossoms in May, and is a handsome tree, wide-spread, and growing to 70 or
80 feet. Used for yokes.
Botan (Palmetto) (Sabalsp). The leaves are nsed for thatch, the stem for staking
and piles ; 60 feet by 5 inches.
Bullhoof. Plentiful ; 80 to 100 feet, 24 inches diameter. Grows straight ; not used.
Task Nick. A beautiful cabinet wood.
Oak (probably Quercus virens). A short, scrubby tree, 30 to 40 feet, 12 to 15 inches
diameter, of which the wood is not used. The bark is used in tanning.
Walknaked (i. e., with its bark off}. Plentifully found, growing 40 to 50 feet high;
a tough, unworkable wood; not in use.
Bribbi. Plentifully found, growing about 50 feet. An umbrageous tree, with an
edible berry. The wood is not used much.
Cabbage-palms (Euterpe montana, Areca oleracea, and Oreodoxa regia). The moun-
tain cabbage, the trunk of which is used, especially by Caribs, in constructing
dwellings and for logwood rafts, called "bark logs."
Cabbage palms (Oreodoxa oleracea). White and red varieties, both growing 80 to
100 feet, diameter 12 inches ; outside very hard, and taking a good polish. Very dur-
able; used in house building.
Cahoun Palm (Attalea Cohune). The tree averages 55 feet in height; valuable for
its oil-bearing nuts.
Cocoanut Palm (Cocos mucifera). The use of this familiar tree of the tropics as a
furniture material is, perhaps, not generally known ; it is very prettily polished; 60
to 80 feet.
Tnberuce. Much used in constructing canoes.
Crammali. The bark of this tree is used medicinally and the tree as a furniture
wood.
Yemery or Emery. Much used for canoes.
Gombolimbo (Symphonia /).). A tree of 60 to 80 feet stature, 20 to 24 inches diam-
eter; plentiful, and yielding a gum. The leaves are used as a decoction.
Samun or Ramon (Tropltis americana). Its foliage makes fodder for cattle, but is
only used when bread nut can not be obtained. It is abundant, growing 50 feet high,
20 inches diameter; wood not used.
Cockspur (Acacia spadicifera) is armed with formidable spines, one at the base 01
each leaf and branch, 2 inches long.
Wire Beer (Psidium sp.). A wild guava; plentiful; height, 40 feet; diameter, 8 to
10 inches. Wood not much used.
Water Wood. Plentiful, at a height of 50 feet, growing straight; wood used for
dwelling houses.
" Knock-me-Back." A small tree of 25 feet elevation, found in swampy places grow-
ing plentifully. Wood used in house building. At the end of each leaf there is an
extension into a prickle or thorn, hence the local appellation.
"Drunken Bayman." Abundant, but not used; grows straight, 60 feet high, with
a diameter of 20 inches.
Wild Tamarind (T. indica).A. most umbrageous, handsome tree, the fruit of which
is well known, covering a wide space, and plentiful in the colony, 80 to ICO feet in
height. The wood is used for doreys, pitpans, etc. ; also for truck wheels.
Bread Nut (Brosimum alicastrum) . Grows 80 to 100 feet by 24 to 30 inches. Fur-
nishes good fodder for cattle.
Glar.sy Wood. A tall, slim tree, the wood of which i very tough. It grows 60 to
80 feet high, 12 to 18 inches in diameter; used for beams and wall plates in house
building.
Iguana Blossom. A. tree so named from its being frequented by a genus of lizard
Iguana tuberculata of Laurenti which, being herbivorous, feeds on the blossoms.
