AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 27
The original Carib name is guana, and these Indians, or their mixed descendants in
Honduras, eat the animal which is common to tropical America, hence the tree is
often corruptly similarly named. It is looked upon by some as a mere variety of
madre cacao.
Negrito. A straight grower, with a resemblance to a pine, 80 feet in height, 20
inches diameter. Its stem is used for masts of vessels.
Cashaw (Prosopis juliflora). A fodder tree common in the West Indies and neigh-
boring countries, but requires caution in using. If an animal is fed on the pods
when the seeds are germinating the germination is continued in the animal's intes-
tines, and if not relieved of its last meal the poor beast dies. Breeders of stock
therefore eliminate it from their pastures. (Morris states that Prosopis yields also
a gum resembling gum arabic, and the wood of it is hard and durable.)
The Cashew (Anacardium occidentale) is a favorite plant on account of its edible
seeds, which grow peculiarly, namely, at the end of the beautifully colored
swollen stalk. The tree belongs to the sumac (Rhus) family, and the fleshy stalk,
besides being eaten, makes a pleasing preserve and also a pleasant drink. (Morris :
Prosopis yields also a gum resembling gum arabic, and the wood of it is hard and
durable.)
Satinwood. A hard lemon-colored local variety of a well-known furniture wood,
which emits a slight fragrance, takes a lustrous polish, and is a great favorite with
cabinetmakers and furniture connoisseurs. The origin of the name is obvious, and
the local species grows to a height of 30 feet, with a diameter of 2 feet. That it is
inferior to its Indian congener few who view it worked up in articles of furniture
will consider. It is plentiful in British Honduras.
Beewood.
PALMETTOS, CALLED HERE " PIMENTOS."
The Salt-water Pimento (Bactris sp.). Much used in staking wharves, resisting well
the action of water, 40 feet by 4 inches diameter. Blossom used to stuff pillows,
cushions, etc. The palmetto is plentiful and much used locally.
The silver pimento is covered with long spiky thorns. Tree grows 20 feet high by
3 to 4 inches diameter. Wood tough, and used in house building.
WITHES, OR LIANAS.
Locally known as "Tie-ties," and very useful to the woodmen and hunters, often
supplying the place of rope and string. These parasites climb the tallest trees, and
hang in graceful festoons or drop perpendicularly from the branches of their sup-
porters. They vary in thickness from less than that of a little finger to that of the
thickest part of a man's thigh, and are frequently armed with formidable thorns.
Water Tie-Tie. So called from the circumstance that in the driest weather the
thirsty traveler, if he is experienced in woodcraft, can obtain water from it by
rapidly cutting off a section of the parasite by two quick cuts with his machete, and
holding the section perpendicularly.
Chew-Stick Tie- Tie. Twigs of this vine are used by the natives of all the races in
the colony as a substitute for the tooth-brush and powder of more highly advanced
countries. It is also used in place of yeast to start fermentation in making ginger
and spruce beer, etc.
The Pine (Finns culensia). It is estimated that about one-third of the area of Brit-
ish Honduras at present known is composed of pine-ridge country.
The chief plant of the pine ridges of the colony. The timber is used only to a
small extent, locally, for building purposes, owing, it is said, to the difficulty experi-
enced in sawing it. The wood is heavy, and if seasoned properly might be very
durable. For railway sleepers, the pine wood should prove most valuable; and if
wmills were provided, much timber now imported could be supplied from the
itive woods, and large quantities of pine might be profitably exported.
:
