AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 29
SALVADOR.
NATIVE WOODS.
The native woods are as follows : Balsam, from which the balsam ot
Peru is obtained, and which is wholly a Salvadorean product; cahoba
(mahogany); red cedar; ceiba, a 5-leaved silk-cotton tree; cola de pava,
an inferior kind of volador; conocaste, a very large hard- wood tree,
used for railroad ties, flooring, etc.; granadillo, brittle and speckled,
worked mainly into canes, etc.; guachipilin. a solid, strong wood, used
for ships ; lignum vitae ; laurel, different from ours, in the bark it resem-
bles our oak, it is springy and easy to work; mora, a fustic; madre
cacao, a durable wood, which petrifies in damp ground; nispero (the
medlar tree); nogal (the walnut); pin o, the common and pitch pine;
pochote, a species of cedar with thorny bark; quebracho (break-ax), so
called from its hardness, used for fences, etc. ; quita calzon (trowsers-
tearer), used for construction; roble, an inferior kind of oak; ron ron,
resembles the guachipilin, but is rougher ; tatascame, called the low
climate tree, grows in great altitudes, and is used for beams, etc.;
varillo, a hard, fibrous, dense-grained wood, good for building timber ;
volador has a white bark, but is not a birch, used in the manufacture of
primitive cartwheels; zapotillo, the sapota tree; ebano (ebony), very
scarce; copinol, a yellow, strong wood, out of which the native sugar-
cane mills are made.
In addition to the foregoing, there are the tropical fruit trees and,
chief of all, the coffee trees, from which, however, nothing is made in
the shape of lumber, except walking canes and some other small arti-
cles. Some of the foregoing woods are known under different names in
the adjoining countries.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
The kinds of lumber used and preferred are:
Native. Oedro, couacaste, cahoba, pochote, guachipilin, and laurel.
Foreign. Oregon pine and California redwood, and spruce (ceiling)
from Canada, imported by way of Europe.
IMPORTS OF LUMBER.
The quantity of lumber imported is about 700,000 feet from the United
States (California) and about 50,000 feet from Canada (via Europe),
though it varies greatly from year to year. Our trade with Salvador
has largely increased within the last two years.
This republic has an area of only about 9,600 square miles, while its
population is 700,000, or about 85 to the square mile, which is twenty
times as dense as that of any other of the Central American States.
This makes timber land very scarce, and what little there is of it is
