30 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
often inaccessible, because of the lack of roads, so that it is generally
cheaper to import lumber than to buy it here. There exists, however,
some prejudice against our lumber on the ground that it can not with-
stand this climate, but this prejudice is unwarranted and is passing
away.
DUTIES AND PRICES.
There are nominally no import duties laid upon lumber, but by an
order of the president, recently issued, a "loan " of 25 cents in gold is
collected on every 100 pounds. I am endeavoring to have this order
revoked.
Lumber is worth in the country, at the place where it is sawed, about
80 pesos ($37.20) per 1,000, taking cedar for a basis, and by the time it
reaches the markets of the principal towns, with the present facilities
of transportation, from 100 ($46.50) to 150 pesos ($09.80) per 1,000.
American lumber can be laid down here, without the profit, for 80 pesos *
($37.20) rough to 100 pesos ($46.50) finished.
CLIMATE.
The climate of Salvador is tropical, but on the mountains and pla-
teaus, upwards of 1,500 feet above the sea level, it is healthful and
agreeable. From that height down toward the valleys of the interior,
or toward the coast it becomes hotter and correspondingly unhealthful,
particularly in the beginning and toward the close of the rainy season
(May and October),
GENERAL BUILDING.
In the principal towns, in the time of peace, there is always building
going on, although not to a large extent. The houses are, however,
all of wood, owing to the frequency of earthquakes. No shipbuilding
is carried on, except the repairing of small boats or launches, which
are brought whole or in pieces from the United States. The railroads
in course of construction are those of La Ceiba-Santa Tecla, 6 miles,
and the Ateos-Santa Ana line, 40 miles. These are propressing slowly.
Two new lines are proposed, one from La Union to San Miguel, and
the other from La Liber tad to San Salvador, each about 35 miles long.
The Government is building a custom-house, hospital, and barracks
at Acajutla. A California company has a contract ($160,000 in gold)
to construct a bridge across the Leinpa Eiver.
EXTENSION OF LUMBER TRADE.
So long as Americans study the wants of this country and fulfill
them, so long can they contest the lumber trade here. The natives do
*The peso was worth, accouUng to U. S. Treasury valuation, 46.5 cents ou April 1,
1894.
