AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 31
not know how to assort, care little how they season the lumber, and it
is almost impossible to get from them good dimensions. The one thing
to be feared by us is the reinstatement of exorbitant freight rates.
ALEXANDER L. POLLOCK,
Consul.
SAN SAL, V^ADOR, March 5, 1894.
SOUTH AMERICA.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.
NATIVE WOODS.
In regard to the native woods of the Argentine Eepublic, I have
to state that I have already furnished the Department with a full and
detailed report. It was published in Yol. x, No. 34, p. 849, of Consular
Eeports. It not only gives the distribution of the forests of the
country from Tierra del Fuego northward to the region of the tropics
(latitude 20 S., longitude 58 W.), but it describes the peculiarities
and uses of the various woods, including the belts on the eastern
slopes of the Andes, the subtropical trees of Salta and Gran, and the
immense timber resources of the Gran Chaco, Misiones, and the
Argentine Mesopotamia, together with the estimate of the future
lumber trade of the Argentine Kepublic. The statements and descrip-
tions of trees in that report are as applicable and apposite to-day
as when they were written, and they include the specific gravity
of the most important trees; so that, instead of rewriting the facts of
that report, I suggest that it be made a supplementary report hereto,*
containing matters of considerable interest to those who are now
iking information on these subjects.
The number of species of trees in the Argentine Eepublic is stated
exceed 500, though of course many of these are mere shrubs or
irborets. Of the more important woods, over 100 species were exhib-
ited at the recent Columbian Exposition at Chicago, and these
:hibits, being sections or blocks sawed from the trunks, and in most
>es polished, have been presented to the Philadelphia Industrial
Ixhibition, where they can now be seen in all their marvelous beauty;
id I presume the catalogue which accompanies them includes full
lescriptions.
Of those native woods wnich have, up to the present time, been more
merally utilized either for constructions or for cabinet work or indus-
:ial purposes, the following are the most important :
Algarrobo. The zone of this useful tree is very extensive, since it
ibraces the following provinces and territories : Corrientes, Santa F6,
*The report referred to will be found immediately following this report.
