32 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
Catamarca, Cordoba, Jujuy, Salta, Mendoza, San Luis, Eioja, Tucu-
man, Entre Bios, Santiago del Estero, Ghaco, Formosa, and Pampa
Central. Its varieties are the white, the yellow, the black, the red, the
gray, and the violet. Its size differs according to the variety, its height
being from 5 to 12 meters (16.4 to 37 feet), and its diameter from 12
inches to 3 meters (9.76 feet). Its uses are varied and important, being
used greatly in carpentry work, in the turning lathe, in cabinet work,
in shipbuilding, etc. Its fruit constitutes an important part of the
food of the poorer classes in the interior of the Eepublic. It is also fed
to cattle, and they rapidly grow fat from its consumption. A drink
called la aloja is likewise prepared from it, which is very intoxicating.
The outside bark is employed for dyeing purposes, giving a bright red
color. The wood resists the action of sun and water without cracking,
and with the application of a little oil, is almost indestructible.
Red quebracho. This valuable tree is found in the extensive zone
formed by the following provinces and territories : Salta, Santiago del
Estero, Cordoba, Santa F6, Corrientes, Chaco, Formosa, etc. It grows
to a height of 15 meters (49.25 feet), with a diameter of 1J meters
(4.923 feet). The color of the wood is very dark red. Its uses are
various and valuable. As sleepers or ties for railway tracks, it is
preferred to all other known woods, and the railways of the country,
with the exception of those which have iron sleepers, are constructed
with this class of timber. It also possesses very powerful tanning
properties, and for that purpose it is employed in all the tanneries of
this part of the Argentine Kepublic, the amount employed at present
reaching 50,000 tons per annum. For this purpose it is also exported
to Europe in great quantities. In the form of posts for fences it is
also greatly employed. It is also used for turners' work, and for
columns, beams, heavy bridge timbers, etc. It is used everywhere in
the country, both on account of its hardness and its durability. It is
likewise susceptible of an exquisite polish, and is extensively used for
cabinet work, for doors, window sills, stairs, etc.
White quebracho. This variety, also greatly appreciated, is found in
the following provinces and territories: Salta, Catamarca, Santiago
del Estero, Santa Fe, San Luis, Cordoba, Eioja, Tucuman, Corrientes,
Chaco, and Formosa. It grows to about the same proportions as the red
quebracho. The color is a yellowish white. It is employed for various
purposes, such as shoe lasts, carriage and cart spokes, hubs of wheels,
carriage and cart beds; also in all kinds of turners' work, in all which
works 4,000 or 5,000 tons are annually consumed in this city.
Cedar. This valuable wood is principally found in the territory of
Misiones, though to some extent cedar forests exist in parts of the
provinces of Salta, Jujuy, Tucumau, Corrientes, and Catamarca. The
trees reach to a height of 15 to 28 meters.(49.21 to 91.86 feet), with a
diameter of 1 meter (3.94 feet). Its color is bright red. Owing to the
easier and cheaper transportation by means of the Parana Eiver,
