AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 33
nearly all that is used here and all that is shipped abroad is brought
down from Misiones. Lately considerable of this wood has been sent
to the United States. It is employed here in the construction of
doors, windows, lattice work, wardrobes, counters, etc., and is greatly
appreciated.
Nandubay. The forests of this valuable timber tree are mostly in
E ntre Kios, Santa Fe, Cordoba, San Luis, Corrientes, and the terri-
tories of the Chaco and Formosa. Its great use is for posts for wiro
fencing, owing to its great specific gravity and its durability.
Cibil. The Cibil is found in the following provinces and territories.
Jujuy, Salta, Tucurnan, Catarnarca, Corrientes, Chaco, Misiones, and
Formosa. There are three varieties, the white, the red, and the black.
It grows to a height of 20 meters (65.62 feet), and its diameter is little
less than a meter for the largest trees. In the provinces the bark is
used for tanning purposes, and its wood is employed as beams, bridge
timbers, and for domestic purposes. It is rich in rubber gum, but no
efforts have yet been made to utilize it.
Gayaibi. This tree is found in the zone formed by the province of
Corrientes and the territories of Formosa, Chaco, and Misiones. The
varieties are the white, the gray, and the black. It attains to a height
of 12 meters (39.37 feet), and has a diameter of one half meter (19.68
inches). It is greatly esteemed by the natives. It is used for tool
handles, and also for oars, masts for small vessels, cooperage, cabinet
work, etc. It is flexible and yet very strong.
Laurel. Laurel is found in the following provinces and territories:
Jujuy, Salta, Tucuman, Corrientes, Catarnarca, Chaco, Formosa, and
Misioues, and presents three varieties the white, the yellow, and the
black. It reaches a height of from 10 to 20 meters (32.81 to 65.62 feet),
and its diameter ranges from a quarter to three quarters of a meter
(9.84 inches to 2.46 feet). It has exquisite veins running through the
wood, and quite competes with walnut. It is extensively used for cab-
inetwork j also, owing to its great strength, for naval construction,
and for the wood parts of agricultural machinery.
Walnut. The walnut (nogal) is found in the zone formed by the fol-
lowing provinces: Jujuy, Salta, Tucuman, Mendoza, Cordoba, and
Eioja. There are two varieties the black, probably originally imported
into the country, and the native, or white, which is a very light brown
color. It is used in the interior for cabinetwork.
Rosewood. This fine wood ( polo de rosa) grows only in the territory
of Missiones. It reaches a height of 15 to 20 meters (49.21 to 65.62
feet). It is the usual rosewood of commerce, takes an exquisite polish,
and is principally used for cabinetwork and furniture. Yery little,
however, comes to this market, as the foreign variety can be procured
more readily and much more cheaply.
Mahogany. This valuable wood (jacarandd) is found only in the far
northeastern part of the country, and principally in the territories of the
665A 3
