AMOUNTS AND KINDS OF LUMBER USED IN THE
MANUFACTURE OF BOXES IN THE
UNITED STATES.
BY
J. C. NELLIS, U. S. FOREST SERVICE.
Box makers in the United States use 4,547,973,180 feet of
lumber annually, of which softwoods constitute 3,138,278,019
feet, or 69 per cent, and hardwoods 1,409,695,161 feet, or 31 per
cent of the total. Practically all of the wood used for boxes is
the product of the sawmill and therefore forms a part of the
annual lumber cut. Based on the production in 1912, the last
year for which figures are available, 11.6 per cent of all lumber
produced in the United States is converted into boxes. In fact,
the manufacture of packing boxes and shocks, crates, crating,
fruit and vegetable packages and baskets, is the second largest
wood-consuming industry of the United States. The manufac-
ture of lumber for construction and building purposes, planing
mill products, sash, doors, blinds, and general mill work, is, of
course, the leading wood-consuming industry, taking over two-
thirds of the annual lumber cut.
This paper presents for the first time statistics showing how
much of each kind of wood is used by the box industry and the
amount consumed by box makers in each of the important regions
and States. These statistics are a part of those secured by the
Forest Service through its studies of all the wood-using industries.*
Investigations were conducted separately in each State. Reports
were secured from practically every wood-using plant showing
the amount of wood consumed annually, and the uses to which
each kind of wood is put, and the accompanying tables are based
upon reports secured from box factories during the respective
State studies. This information was first used in compiling State
reports which have been published for thirty States. This article
summarizes the statistical information regarding the box industry.
The collection and compilation of the figures, which was carried
out State by State, extended over a period of four years, but as
one full year was made the basis of statistics in each case the
figures shown here give a very clear idea of the quantity of each
* Readers are referred to the various State wood-using 1 bulletins
for data as to the industry in each State. Further, this paper is but
a preliminary report of the Forest Service investigations of the box
industry; an extensive study has recently been undertaken which will
consider specifications for box lumber, methods of manufacturing-
boxes and shooks with particular attention to the reduction and use
of waste, costs of manufacture, marketing, and finally the use of
boxes by consumers with special reference to the correlation of con-
sumers' specifications as far as possible.
3
