Principal Producing Regions.
The manufacture of boxes in the United States is conducted
on a large scale in certain regions determined by the supply of
raw material and the markets for the product. The manufacturing
industries turning out products usually shipped in boxes, and the
intensive production of fruits and vegetables for wide markets
are the consuming channels calling for large box supplies. Among
the leading box consumers are manufacturers of oil, pack'ng-house
products, canned goods, groceries and tobacco, clothing and dry
goods, the manufacturers of hardware, tinware and machines,
growers of fruit, berries and vegetables. Crates, which are classed
in this report with boxes, are used in large quantities by shippers
of furniture, hardware, machinery and stone. There are innum-
erable special demands for boxes and crates, but on the whole
it is manufacturing and intensive fruit raising and market garden-
ing which create the demand for boxes, and a careful analysis of
the centers of these activities, together with a consideration of
the sources of timber supply, will explain the widely varying rela-
tive importance of the industries in the several States and regions.
Nearly three-fourths of all the boxes, shooks, crates, cratng,
etc., are manufactured in the region east of the Mississippi River
and north of Tennessee and North Carolina, which, owing to the
extent of its industries, offers the best market for boxes, and
also embraces or is contiguous to the sources of the woods most
used in box making. New England and New York produce and
manufacture into boxes a great deal of white pine, hemlock,
spruce and balsam fir, though they also secure a portion of the : r
box material from Canada. Virginia and Maryland produce yel-
low pine loblolly, shortleaf and scrub and use nearly half a
billion a year for boxes and shooks, though much of this comes
from North Carolina. Wisconsin and Michigan manufacture white
pine into boxes, also join with Minnesota in furnishing the wood
to box factories in Illinois. The latter State draws also on the
southern supply of red gum, cottonwood and yellow poplar, as
do Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York.
The fourteen States lying east of Ohio, Kentucky and Tennes-
see and north of South Carolina produce 50 per cent of all the
boxes and shooks manufactured annually. Wisconsin, Michigan,
Ill'nois, Indiana and Ohio together contribute 20 per cent of the
total production, the Pacific Coast States California. Oregon
and Washington 10 per cent; the red gum States Missouri,
Arkansas, Kentucky and Tennessee 9 per cent, while all the rest
of the States together produce only 11 per cent.
Boxes manufactured in the States east of the Mississippi
River are largely used in the same region, while Pacific Coast
box manufacturers not only supply salmon packers and fruit rais-
