factured into boxes is used in the Atlantic Coast States, and is
North Carolina pine, which includes loblolly and shortleaf. The
States using the largest amounts of all kinds of yellow pine, in
order of the quantities they consume, are Virginia, Maryland, New
York, Pennsylvania, Florida and North Carolina. Virginia, Mary-
land, New York and Pennsylvania use the largest amount of lob-
lolly pine, while Virginia, Pennsylvair'a, New York and North
Carolina use the most shortleaf. Longleaf pine is used in largest
amounts in Florida, Illinois and Indiana. Virginia and Maryland
lead in the use of scrub pine, and New Jersey and Pennsylvania in
the use of p : tch pine. Most of the Cuban pine reported is used
in Florida. Box makers secure loblolly pine largely from saw-
mills in Virginia and North Carolina and shortleaf pine from the
same States and also from Arkansas. Longleaf pine comes from
the Gulf States while scrub, pitch and Cuban pine are largely cut
in the States where they are used.
Red gum is a single species, although the box trade recognises
both sap and red gum, the former coming from the sapwood of
large trees or trees that are nearly all sap. The States using the
greatest quant'ties of red gum for box manufacture are Missouri,
Illinois, Arkansas, Kentucky and Virginia, while the supply comes
from the lower Mississippi Valley States.
Two kinds of spruce are used in large amounts for boxes,
in the Eastern States the red spruce, and in the Pacific Coast
States Sitka spruce. Red spruce, which is lumbered in New Eng-
land, New York, and southward along the mountains, furnishes 57
per cent of the total amount of spruce manufactured into boxes,
being used chiefly in New York, Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
Maine, New Jersey, Vermont, and Pennsylvania. Sitka spruce
cut near the coast in Washington and Oregon furnishes 42 per
cent, and is most used in Washington, California and Oregon.
Small amounts of black spruce are used in Michigan, Illinois and
Wiscons'n, white spruce in Minnesota and Wisconsin, and Engel-
mann spruce in Colorado and Montana; these minor spruces grow
in the States mentioned with the exception of Illinois.
Western yellow pine, an individual species, is an important
source of box material in the West. About three-fourths of all
the western yellow pine manufactured into boxes is used in Cali-
fornia. Other States using large amounts are New Mexico, Arizona.
Washington and Idaho. This species is lumbered in the Rocky
Mountain States and westward. The largest quantities are cut in
the three Pacific Coast States and Idaho.
The term cottonwood includes a half-dozen species, of which
the common cottonwood of the lower Miss'ssippi Valley furnishes
85 per cent of the total amount used for boxes. The largest
quantities are employed in Illinois, Tennessee, Missouri, Mississippi,
10
