Kentucky, Louisiana, Ohio, New York and Arkansas. The western
species, black cottonwood, which grows 'n the Pacific Coast States,
furnishes 7 per cent of the total, most of which was used in Wash-
ington, and a much smaller amount in California. Balm of Gilead,
lumbered in the Northeast and in the Lake States, furnishes 5 per
cent, and is used in Michigan, New York and Illinois. Aspen, which
is commonly known in the north as popple, formed 3 per cent and
was used in largest quantities in Vermont, Maine, Wisconsin, and
Michigan. This species is cut mostly in the Northeast and Lake
States. Very small amounts of both large toothed aspen and Lom-
bardy poplar were also used in Michigan.
Both eastern and western hemlock go into boxes. The eastern
species furnishes 84 per cent of the total, and the western species
16 per cent. Eastern hemlock is suppl'ed by mills in Wisconsin
and Michigan and in mountain regious of the eastern States while
the western species is cut almost exclusively in Washington and
Oregon. Eastern hemlock is used for boxes in largest quantities
in Illinois, Michigan, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Wiscon-
sin, and western hemlock in Washington, Oregon and in California.
Yellow poplar is a single species which is often called white-
wood or tulip tree. It is put to greatest use in the manufacture
of boxes in Oh : o, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia and
Illinois. The supply of poplar box lumber comes from West Vir-
ginia, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia, North Carolina, and ad-
jacent States.
The different kinds of maple are used in largest quantities in
Michigan, Illinois, Pennsylvan'a, Ohio, and New York. It is diffi-
cult to ascertain the exact amount of each kind of maple used for
boxes, but it is estimated that 63 per cent is sugar maple, 35 per
cent silver maple, and 2 per cent red maple. Sugar maple is used
most extensively in Michigan, Illinois, and Pennsylvania; silver
maple in IH'nois, Ohio and Michigan; and red maple in Illinois.
Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and New York are the largest
producers of sugar maple lumber; silver maple is largely cut by
mills in the northern States, and red maple by mills in the central
and southern States.
The several kinds of birch are most used in Illinois, Wisconsin,
Michigan and Pennsylvania. As with the maples, it is d'fficult to
ascertain the proportion of the different species, but it is estimated
that 84 l /2 per cent is yellow birch, 13 per cent sweet birch, and 2 r /<
per cent paper birch. The largest amounts of yellow birch are used
in Illinois, Wisconsin and Michigan; of sweet birch in Pennsylvania
and West Virginia, wh ; le most of the paper birch is used in Maine.
Yellow birch is lumbered mostly in the Lake States and North-
east; sweet birch in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, and paper
birch in northern New England.
11
