The basswood employed in the wood-using industries is cut
from three botanical species; one common in the North and two
in the South. The lumber is suppl'ed by sawmills in the Lake
States, central States and the Northeast. The most important
basswood consuming States are Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois,
New York and Minnesota.
There is but one kind of beech native to this country, and it
is cut and used most extensively in the northern States. The box
factories of Mich'gan, Pennsylvania, New York, Ohio, and Indiana
use beech in largest quantities. The same five States produce two-
thirds of all the beech lumber cut in this country.
Tupelo is the common name for lumber cut from cotton gum
and black gum trees. The States using the greatest quantity of
tupelo in box manufacture are Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, and Louisiana. It is estimated that 51 per cent 's
cotton gum and 49 per cent black gum. Based on this division,
cotton gum is put to greatest use in Louisiana, Virginia, and
Illinois, and black gum in Virgin'a, Maryland and North Carolina.
The largest quantities of cotton gum box lumber come from
Louisiana, while black gum box lumber is largely produced in
Virginia and North Carolina.
It is estimated that 85^ per cent of all the elm consumed by
the box industry is white elm, wh ! ch is used in largest quantities
in Michigan, New York, Illinois, Ohio, and Indiana. Twelve per
cent is estimated to be red or slippery elm, which is used mostly
in Illinois and Indiana. These species are cut mostly in the States
ment'oned with the exception of Illinois and the addition of Wis-
consin and Missouri. Small amounts of cork elm are used in
several northern States, and a small amount of wing elm in Texas.
One of the minor uses of oak is in the manufacture of boxes,
crates, and baskets. In the use of oak, Arkansas leads, followed
by Pennsylvania, Indiana and Ohio. It is estimated that 50 per
cent of the total is red oak, used mostly in Pennsylvania, Ohio,
West Virginia and New York, 20 per cent yellow oak, pract'cally
all used in Arkansas, 17^2 per cent white oak, the largest amounts
used in Indiana and Ohio, and 7 per cent Texan oak, reported
chiefly from Arkansas. Oak lumber is produced in every hardwood
State and that used by box makers was probably cut in the State
where used or adjacent States. Small amounts of bur, Garry, post,
overcup, chinquapin, pin and willow oak are also used in different
States.
Balsam fir is a single species which grows in the northeastern
and Lake States, although it is sometimes confused with white fir
of the West. It is put to its greatest use in box manufacture in
Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont. The lumber
is produced mostly by mills in northern New England and the
Lake States.
12
