Cypress is not an important box material because it is
more valuable for other purposes and is suited for only certain
kinds of boxes. The largest quantities are used in Missouri, New
York and Louisiana. Nearly two-thirds of all the cypress lumber
cut comes from Louisiana.
Chestnut is not used to a great extent for boxes, although the
lower grades of sound wormy sometimes go into the cheaper
kinds of boxes and crates. The States using the largest amounts
for boxes are Pennsylvania, Ohio, New York, and Virginia, while
the States furnishing th's kind of box lumber are West Virginia,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky.
The wood of sugar pine is much like that of white pine, and is
therefore very suitable for boxes, but the greater part of the lum-
ber produced by sawmills is of too high grade to allow its use by
box factories. Over 80 per cent of the sugar pine used for boxes
is consumed in California, and practically all of the balance in
Oregon. These States alone supply this wood the greater part
being cut in California.
Sycamore, although rather difficult to work, is used for certain
kinds of boxes. The largest amounts are consumed in Kentucky,
Virginia, Missouri, and Illinois. The lumber is produced in the
central hardwood States.
Ash is not an important box material, but like other hard-
woods is used to some extent. The largest quantities are used in
Michigan and Illinois. It is estimated that 47 per cent of the
total is white ash, the largest quantities being used in Illinois and
Michigan; 28 per cent black ash, a large part of which is used in
Michigan; and 23 per cent green ash, used mostly in Texas,
Georgia, and Arkansas. A small amount of red ash was also used
in Georgia. White and black ash are cut mostly in the northern
States and green ash in the South.
There are several kinds of willow, but all are listed together in
statistics. The most important kind is black willow, which is cut
and used largely in the States of Louisiana and Mississippi as a
substitute for cottonwood, which it resembles both in appearance
and qualities.
The term larch here includes the eastern tamarack and western
larch. Ninety-five per cent of the total is tamarack, the largest
quantities of which were used in Michigan and Wisconsin. The
greater part of the western larch was used in Montana. Tamarack
is lumbered mostly in the Lake States and larch in the Northwest.
A very minor use of Douglas fir is in the manufacture of boxes
in the States of California, Colorado, Oregon and Washington.
Douglas fir lumber is produced in many of the western States
13
