Washington and Oregon furnish nearly two-thirds of the total
quantity.
Noble fir is one of the minor western species, and more of it
is used by the box industry than by any other. The entire amount
shown in Table 2 was reported as used by box makers in Oregon.
The lumber is cut by sawmills in Washington and Oregon.
Magnol : a is a wood somewhat resembling yellow poplar and is
cut in the southern States; it is used in greatest quantities for
boxes in Florida and Louisiana.
Buckeye is one of the minor species of the central hardwood
region and Tennessee box factories use the largest quantities.
White fir is a minor western species, well suited to the manu-
facture of boxes. The greater part of the amount shown in Table
2 was used in California and a very small part in Oregon. The
largest quantities of white fir lumber are cut by sawmills in the
Pacific Coast States and Idaho.
None of the several kinds of cedar is important as box ma-
terial. The eastern red and northern white cedar comprise the
greater port'on of the total, while small amounts of southern white,
western red and incense cedar are also reported.
A minor use of redwood is in the manufacture of boxes, and
the wood so used is practically all cut and consumed in California.
Red fir is used to some extent in California for the manufac-
ture of boxes. The species is lumbered only in California and
Oregon.
The other species listed in Table 2 are used in small quantities
only, and fall into two classes those too valuable .for box material,
and a few comparatively scarce species which are fit for but littlt
but cheap boxes and crates. Some hickory is employed to make
very strong, tough crates for shipping machinery and heavy mer-
chandise. The wood of the cucumber tree resembles that of
yellow poplar both in appearance and properties and is put to
practically the same uses by box manufacturers. Alpine fir is
a Rocky Mounta'n species resembling balsam .fir in appearance,
properties and uses. Hackberry and silver bell tree are southern
hardwoods little used for any purpose. Butternut, cherry, walnut,
applewood, and mahogany are too costly to be used for shipping
boxes but are made into expensive boxes for jewelry, silverware,
and other expensive merchandise. Woods such as ailanthus and
mountain ash serve only for cheap boxes or crating. Yucca is a
desert palm from Arizona and California and was used in Missouri
for bottle packing.
14
