AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 37
variety is brownish gray; of the second, greenish gray. It is used iu
turners' work. The fruit of the tree is edible.
Palo de lanza. The u lance wood " embraces the zone formed by the
following provinces and territories, viz: Solla, Santa Fe, Misiones,
Chaco, and Formosa. It grows to a height of 15 meters (49.21 feet)
with a diameter of 50 centimeters (19.68 inches). The color of the
wood is a bright gray. It is used for turners' work, for chairs, for han-
dles, etc.
Petcriby. This tree grows principally in the provinces of Santa Fe
and Corrientes and in the territories of Misiones and Chaco. Its
height varies from 15 to 18 meters (49.21 to 58.22 feet), with a diameter
of 30 to 50 centimeters (11.81 to 19.68 inches). The color is a bright
brown, very similar to walnut. It is used for cabinetwork, for furniture
and other carpentry work. It is also employed for beams, joists, etc.
Chenar. The zone of this tree is quite extensive, being found in
greater or less quantities in all parts of the country; but especially in
the folio wing provinces and territories, viz: Cordoba, Jujuy, San Luis,
Santa Fe, Tucuman, Santiago, Pampa Central, and the Chaco. It grows
to a height of 5 or 6 meters (16.44 to 19.68 feet) with a diameter of 50
centimeters (19.68 inches). It is used in all kinds of carpentry work.
Palo ribera. This tree, "river wood," is quite abundant in the ter-
ritories of the Chaco and Formosa, and especially along the Bermijo
Eiver. It attains to a height of 12 to 18 meters (39.37 to 49.21 feet), a
diameter of 50 to 80 centimeters (19.68 to 31.50 inches). It is not yet
very well known in Buenos Ayres, as it is rather inaccessible to the
woodchoppers. Its color is rather unique dark cinnamon, with red-
dish veins. When polished it presents a magnificent surface, and,
combined with other woods, in cabinetwork, produces beautiful ettects.
When better known, it will evidently be sought after.
Alamo bianco. This is the white, or " aspen," poplar of the United
States. It is found all over the Argentine Republic, and, as with us,
it is used for all sorts of purposes. Being about the only light wood
in the country, it is employed in carpentry work, for packing-boxes,
for common furniture, for broom handles, and for many other purposes.
It grows without any attention, and immense plantations are every-
where to be seen. It is especially used by estancieros for belts of tim-
ber around their habitations, to break the force of the wind and thus
protect their flocks.
Alamo Carolina. This is nothing more than our ordinary cotton-
wood, which grows with such wonderful luxuriance on the low banks
and islands of the Mississippi River. It may be indigenous to this
country, but I think the tree was imported from us by Dr. Sarmiento,
when he was minister to the United States. On the prairies and
pampas of the Argentine Republic, on account of its rapid growth, it
is greatly appreciated, and is regarded as a much better wood, owing
to its heavier body, than the white poplar. As it is easily worked, it
is used for all sorts of carpentry purposes.
