38 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
Willow. This tree grows very generally all over the Republic, and
especially along the water courses. It covers the islands of the Delta
of the Panama River. It furnishes nearly all the firewood of the city
of Buenos Ayres. Every three years it is cut for that purpose, and
new trees spring up from the stumps. It is likewise used for common
furniture, for turners' work, for wooden shoes, etc.; and as it flourishes
with a rapid growth in the timberless regions of the country it is
regarded as one of the most useful trees of the Republic.
SPECIES AND VARIETIES, AND THEIR EXPLOITATION.
I have thus, according to request, enumerated thirty-six different
species of native trees, all indigenous to the Argentine Republic; and,
as has been seen, some of these species have several distinct varieties,
the whole number amounting to at least forty, so that really the above
enumeration includes not less than seventy-six varieties of Argentine
woods. The catalogue might be still further extended; for many other
" unusual" varieties are known to exist, though I am not just now able
to describe them.
It will be observed that many of these woods, not having yet been
properly classified, still bear the names given them by the Guarani
Indians or the early Spanish settlers. Likewise it will be borne in
mind that it is only in the far western, northwestern, and northern
portions of the country that the timber plantations of the Argentine
Republic are to be found in many cases over a tnousand miles from
tide water. The Atlantic side of Patagonia is a desert; the territory
of the Parnpa is in great part destitute of trees, and the Province ot
Buenos Ayres and the southern portion of that of Santa Pe" are also in
the natural state without other vegetation than the grasses, though
of late years vast artificial plantations have been made in all directions
through the interior. Furthermore, it is be considered that all the
woods I have enumerated above, except it may be the willow and the
poplars, are what are called " hard " woods, whose specific gravity in
almost all cases is greater than that of water.
With such classes of woods to deal with, and with the great forests
of the country so far removed from the seaboard, especially from Buenos
Ayres, which is the great receiving and distributing focus of the Argen-
tine Republic, some idea may be entertained of the labor of getting the
timber resources of the interior to market. Yet the exploitation of the
timber trees of the upper provinces and territories, especially along the
Parana and Paraguay rivers, has been going on with more or less per-
sistency for a great many years; and the choppers and the sawyers,
without government officials to molest or make them afraid, have used
their privileges with so little care and consideration that in some parts
of the interior, especially along the water courses, the havoc and whole-
sale destruction have been shameful. So little respect, indeed, was
paid to the national forests that, a few years ago, the government
