AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 39
enacted a law prohibiting the cutting of timber on the public lands
except by special permission which had to be paid for, and then the
work was required to be done under special conditions. Though the
timber thieves still get in their work in the remote places, there is now
more system and somewhat more care displayed in getting out lumber.
NATIVE ESTIMATE OF ARGENTINE WOODS.
As showing the estimate which the more intelligent portion of the
Argentine people place upon their forest riches, I translate the follow-
ing from a recent issue of the Buenos Ayres Nacion :
Our national forests present a superabundant element of riches; and, if wise laws
are made to protect their production, in a few years the Republic will be able to get
along without importing foreign lumber and be prepared even to export all kinds
which are suitable for city or rural constructions or as auxiliary to other important
industries. Among the five hundred varieties which have been catalogued there are
many woods of great value; and there is no object or use or necessity or industrial
purpose which can not be supplied by some of the classes of these woods. At pres-
ent, however, it must be confessed that these great forest riches are but slightly
appreciated by the majority of our people. What a wonderful source of wealth
they would be if they were the possession of some more enterprising nation ! The
greater part is of spontaneous growth and owes nothing to the hand of man, which
from time immemorial has, on the contrary, done all it could to destroy what nature
has provided for the country.
Science, reason, and common intelligence condemn the manner in which the for-
ests of the nation have been exploited. Without entering into details, it is suffi-
cient to say that the damage and destruction under the present system are greater
to' the country than the profits. Everybody sees the manner in which, despite the
law on the subject, the natural forests are being ruined, but how few apply the rem-
edy against the devastation which is going on.
THE SAWMILLS AND SAWYERS OF THE COUNTRY.
The number of sawmills in the country are now numbered by thou-
sands, and they are quite generally distributed, not only along the
shores of the upper rivers, but in the interior provinces. On this sub-
ject I translate from a recent number of the Buenos Ayres Prensa the
following :
There is one industry in the Republic which at least can count on an extraordi-
nary number of establishments of every magnitude, from the least with a single mule
power (movido porla perezosa mula) to those of the largest dimensions, stocked with
the very best machinery which the world affords. We refer to the sawmills of the
country. There is no province or territory, whether in the north or the south, which
does not count on a large number. It may be stated as a fact that the woods of the
country furnish labor for a larger number of artizans and laborers than that of any
other industry. In the Province of Santiago del Estero, no less than 5,000 workmen
are employed in no less than 200 different establishments, most of them in the Sierras,
getting out quebracho sleepers for railways, white quebracho beams for constructions,
woods of other descriptions for cabinet work, and joists and scantlings and boards
of other timbers, besides the large amount of fuel for the numerous railways of that
vicinity. In the Province of Tucuman there is even a larger number of lumbermen
and a larger number of establishments. In the Province of Cordova the working up
of the algorroba forests sustains a still greater number of sawmills and employes,
