40
AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
which throw upon the market monthly millions of "breadths and lengths" (Pierrit*
y cabazales) bedsteads, knees, square knees, and various other products of the algor-
roba and other hard-wood trees. The Province of Santa Fe, not only in the neigh-
borhood of its cities, but in its various colonies, has a large number of sawmills and
carpenters; and especially in that portion of its territory which adjoins the Gran
Chaco, there is a large population whose principal occupation is working the red
quebracho forests, as it is from this province that the greater part of the quebracho
chip, used in Europe for dye woods, are obtained. In the province of Entre Rios,
likewise, there is a considerable number of well established mills, besides a still
larger number of moving circular sawmills, which are now penetrating to the very
center of the immense forests of that part of the Republic, turning out all kinds
of lumber and hard wood. And the same is the case in the Province of Corrientes,
where there are extensive forests of quebracho and other choice timber. But in the
territories of the Chaco, Formosa, and Misioue, the lumbermen and the sawmills are
especially to be found. The amount of capital invested in the lumber trade, in those
parts of the Republic, reaches to millions of dollars ; and the establishments there are
commensurate with the vast wealth of timber of the most valuable varieties, which
are to be found there. The lumber business of the provinces of Salta, Jujuy, Rioja,
Catamarca, San Louis, Mendoza, and San Juan, though of much less importance,
owing to their distance from a marketable outlet, is yet very considerable, as all the
lumber of every kind and description which they use is furnished by their own
forests. Here in the city of Buenos Ayres, though the lumber and woods must all be
transported here, there are thirty-nine sawmills and seven hundred and forty-three
carpenter shops. Besides there are numerous similar establishments in the cities of
La Plata, Chirilcoy, Tigre, San Fernando, Bahia Blanca, San Nicolas, Campana, and
other places.
THE LUMBER INDUSTRY.
I am not able to state for no census Las ever been taken the total
number of workmen and laborers engaged in the lumber industry of
the Argentine Republic; but the following table, which has been pre-
pared with considerable care, gives an approximation of the number of
persons thus employed for the year 1892 :
Place.
Number.
Place.
Number.
City of Buenos Ayres
12 000
Province of
500
Bueu os Ayres .... . ... ......
6 000
500
Santiago
5 000
500
Cordova
5 000
Territories
Tucuman
4 000
Chaco
750
SantaF6
5,000
Central ...
500
Entre Rios
3 000
800
2,000
Misioues
750
1,000
Para pa
250
gan Juan .... ...
1 000
250
1 000
Salta
1,000
Total
50 800
ANNUAL LUMBER OUTPUT.
In regard to the output of the lumber industry in the interior prov-
inces, it is not possible to give any figures. That there is an exchange
of trade between the sawmills and the provincial centers of population,
which in the course of the year amounts to several millions of dollars,
is evident from the fact that all the houses, habitations, galpones, barns,
