AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 47
These computations were made from observations taken in 1880, but
they are equally good at present, owing to the very slight variations in
the daily readings for any year.
In regard to the seasons, it will be borne in mind that, being south
of the equator, they are exactly opposite to those of the United States,
viz: Spring, September, October, November; summer, December, Jan-
uary, and February; autumn, March, April, and May; winter, June,
July, and August. The seasons, however, run into each other so
imperceptibly that in reality the year here may be divided into two
seasons; the warm, which extends from October to April, inclusive,
i. e., seven months; and the cool, which extends from May to Septem-
ber, inclusive, i. e., five months.
GENERAL BUILDING-.
In regard to the construction of the buildings of this country, the
houses, in the early days of its history, met the necessities of the people
in a very primitive way. No particular consideration was given to the
modern idea of comfort. Very little wood entered into their construc-
tion. Mud bricks and a very poor article of mortar were the principal
ingredients, and the style was the old-fashioned one-story, shambling
house, with a flat, or "azotea," roof, also of brick, constructed after the
manner of the Moorish dwellings of early Spain, with a court in the
center. As this was before the era of coal shipments from England,
and there was little wood in the country nearer than the Gran Ohaco,
they made no fireplaces or other provision in the houses for fires; and
the inhabitants, in a comfortless way, when the winter was upon them,
huddled around an iron Eraser a of smouldering charcoal set in the mid-
dle of the room, or went without fire altogether. But with the opening of
the coal trade with Great Britain, and the utilization of the upper river
forests, there has gradually been a great change in the architecture and
conveniences of the houses of Buenos Ayres, and during these late
years, in their general appearance, in their internal arrangements, and
in the use of fireplaces, grates, stoves, and furnaces the houses remind
one of the dwellings and business blocks of the cities of the United
States.
As to the extent to which general building is carried on in Buenos
Ayres at the present time, it may be said that this branch of industry
is at present somewhat depressed. There is no activity in house build-
ing, ship-building or railway-building. In all these interests the coun-
try for the last three or four years has been so severely affected by the
financial crisis, which has not only caused the Government to default,
but many business men to go into bankruptcy, that there has been a
decided let-up in all classes of construction. Indeed, during the
"boom" which preceded the crisis, building of all kinds was so greatly
overdone that that branch of business was among the first to feel the
effects of the stringency.
