AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 49
IMPORTERS OF AMERICAN LUMBER.
Iii concluding this report, it may be well to state that the most im-
portant and best known importers of North American lumber and
dealers in native woods are the following:
C. S. Roberts & Co., Calle San Martin, No. 76.
Thomas Drysdale & Co., Calle Moreno, No. 438.
J. & J. Drysclale & Co., Calle Peru, No. 440.
Shaw Bros., Calle Piedras, No. 76.
J. Shaw & Sons, Calle Venezuela, No. 860.
George Bell & Sons, Calle Defensa, No. 649
C. S. Bowers & Co., Calle Cuyo, No. 472.
Lahnsen & Co., Calle Peru, No. 23.
Shaw, Miller & Co., Calle Alsena, No. 471.
Warden & Co., Calle Belgrano, No. 573.
And the list might be further extended. All necessary information
in regard to the methods pursued here in the lumber trade, or in regard
to the disposition of cargoes will be readily furnished to the lumber
dealers and exporters of the United States upon application by letter
to any of the above-named houses.
E. L. BAKER,
Consul
BUENOS AYRES, March 3, 1894.
SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT.
THE WOODS OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.*
BOTANY OF THE COUNTRY.
As yet there has been no complete scientific exploration of the vegetation of this
country; but the subject has occupied and is still occupyingthe attention of anum-
ber of well known scientists, srme of whom are making their investigations under
the special patronage of the National Government. Of course the fruit of their
labors in regions so remote and so wild can not be gathered in a day, but already
no little headway has been made in the botanical survey of the country, and most
important results, not only in the collectioa of specimens, but in the classification
of trees, have been obtained. It appears that the first systematic study of the vege-
tation of the Argentine Republic was made by Dr. Lorentz, who was called from
Germany to fill the chair of botany in the University of Cordova. He was suc-
ceeded in the same chair by Dr. Hieronynms, also of Germany, who has made the
most complete collection of woods in the country that is to be found anywhere, and
who informs me that he has now in press a report of the results of his studies.
This, of course, is not yet accessible, and hence I am not able to profit by his labors.
The information which I have embodied in this report has been obtained from a
" report on the vegetation of the Argentine Republic," by Dr. Lorentz ; from the late
volumes of M.Martin de Moussy, in French, on the " geographical and statistical
description of the Argentine Republic;" from a work on "the Argentine Republic,"
in German, by Sr. Ricardo Nap, formerly in charge of the Argentine national statisti-
cal office, and from information which I have derived directly from Prof. A. P.
* From Consular Reports No. 34, 1883.
665A 4
