AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 51
by a band of peat with minute alpine plants, and this again is succeeded by the line
of perpetual snow, which, in the Straits of Magellan, descends to between 3,000 and
4,000 feet. There is but little level laud, and where this happens to be the case, the
surface is in many places a mere bed of swampy peat. Indeed, even within the
forest, the ground is concealed by a mass of slowly putrefying vegetable matter,
which, being soaked with water, yields to the foot.* On the eastern side, however,
there are some open meadows fit for pasturage or cultivation.
FORESTS NORTH OF THE STRAITS OF MAGELLAN.
These magnificent forests extend northward from the Straits of Magellan along
the Andes on both slopes to about 34 of south latitude. In fact it is not yet known
definitely where they do terminate on the eastern or Patagonian slopes. Besides the
almost impenetrable forests of beech trees, there is a thick underwood, consisting of
a species of Berber is and other antarctic species, and the same thick layer of turf, which
is so universal in Terra del Fuego. Indeed, excepting the timber and the turf, the
vegetable kingdom produces here no useful objects whatever. Nevertheless, in the
hands of an energetic and laborious people, these forests of beeches could be exploited
and made a source of untold wealth ; but civilization has not yet penetrated these
primitive regions.
EASTERN SLOPES OF THE SOUTHERN ANDES.
Further north, along these eastern slopes of the Cordilleras, in the neighborhood
of the sources of the Rio Negro, there are forests of stately pines and wild apple
trees, and it is here that the Patagonian Indians have their permanent settlement,
in the midst of wide, open plains extending out from the sierras, well watered and
clothed in most luxuriant grasses. Capt. Musters, who penetrated these forests in
1869, speaks of them as "uniformly dense;" the trunks of the pine trees reaching a
height of 60 to 100 feet, and entirely bare of branches for two-thirds of their height. t
His descriptions, however, of the woods and rivers are too superficial to give us a
clear idea of the flora of these regions. The Argentine Government is now explor-
ing all the country along the eastern slopes of the Andes, with a view to opening it
up to settlement and improvement. A report on the vegetation is now in press and
will soon be issued.
*Prof. Darwin describes an ascent he made of one of the mountains of this
country, from which I take the following: "I was anxious to reach the summit of
Bank's Mountain to collect alpine plants, for flowers in the lower part are few in
number. We followed a water course till it dwindled away, and we were then com-
pelled to crawl blindly among the trees. These, from the effects of the elevation
and of the impetuous winds, were low, thick, and crooked. At length we reached
that which from a distance appeared like a carpet of fine green turf, but which to
our vexation turned out to be a compact mass of little beech trees about 4 or 5 feet
high. They were as thick together as box in the border of a garden, and we were
obliged to struggle over the flat but treacherous surface. After a little more trouble
we gained the peat and then the bare slate rock. We obtained a wide view over
the surrounding country; to the north a swampy moorlnnd extended, but to the
south we had a scene of savage magnificence well becoming Terra del Fuego. There
was a degree of mysterious grandeur in mountain behind mountain, with the deep,
intervening valleys, all covered with one thick mass of forest. The atmosphere,
likewise, in this climate, where gale succeeds gale, with hail, rain, and sleet, seems
blacker than anywhere else. In the Straits of Magellan, looking due southward
from Port Famine, the distant channels between the mountains appeared from their
gloominess to lead beyond the confines of the earth."
te At Home with the Patagonians, by C. G. Musters, pages 113 to 160.
