AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 53
soil corresponds to the inclination, as though the continent had been formed by some
great flow of waters depositing bowlders and rocks near the mountains, then dis-
tricts of pebbles and water-worn stones, then coarse gravels and sands, and lastly
the finer sands and clayey deposits which cover the great alluvial plains, and which
are evidently the debris of the crystalline rocks of the mighty range of the Andes
leveled and sorted by the action of water. The surface of all this vast area is cov-
ered by the richest of succulent grasses, but normally it is without a tree or a
ligneous plant. It is a magnificent pasture ground, but its flora is poor and monot-
onous. It is remarkable that a soil on which timber grows so luxuriantly when
planted should from time immemorial be so totally destitute of forests. The only
exception is that in the sierras of Tandil, 200 miles south of Buenos Ayres, there is
a region of dense brushwood called carmamoel (Colletia cruciaia), which grows about
the height of a man, and which has no leaves, but is covered with sharp thorns in
the shape of a cross. And another exception consists in a strip of woods which
extends from the latitude of Buenos Ayers down along the Atlantic coast composed
principally of good-sized trees of the tola coronillo and espinillo, which are used for_
various economical purposes. As a proof that the soil of the pampas is perfectly
adapted to arboreous vegetation, I would mention that in various parts there are
now extensive belts of cultivated timber, among which is the peach tree, which pro-
duces both fruit and fuel; also several species of the Eucalypins, the Robinia, the
Paradise tree, and the Lombardy poplar, all of which grow with facility and rapidly,
and are used not only for shade but for many economical purposes. There is one tree
indigenous to the pampas which I should mention from its singular character. I
refer to omber ( Percunia divica). At a distance it is one of the most attractive objects.
It grows to immense proportions, with gnarled roots and knots projecting up and
around the trunk in all manner of fantastic shapes, and affords a wide-spreading
shade of dark velvety leaves, a most refreshing resort for the siesta of a weary trav-
eler; but for the rest it is utterly worthless. Its wood is really not ligneous, having
neither fiber nor consistency, and resembling punk or a sponge more than anything
else. These trees, if trees they may be called, do not grow in forests, but only singly
and isolated, here and there at long intervals, being landmarks on the far horizon
sentinels, as it were, of the pampa.
THE TREES OF THE EASTERN SLOPES OF THE ARGENTINE ANDES.
Where the pampas approach the western mountains, all along the outlying slopes
of the Cordilleras of the Andes, but distinct and isolated from them, and extending
northward to the confines of Bolivia, there is a formation partly composed of open
forests and partly of shrubs and ligneous plants, which the scientists have designa-
ted by the name of the Mont6 formation. It embraces a great part of the western
slopes of the seven Andine provinces, to wit, Mendoza, San Luis, San Juan, Rioja,
Catamarca, Jujuy, and Salta. Prof. Groesback, in his celebrated work, the "Vege-
tation of the Earth," calls it the " Chaiiar Steppe," from the arborets of that name
which are so generally distributed through it. The trees which constitute this
formation consist principally of species of prosopis, mimosa, and acacia. They are at
first found in rather diminutive forms, and bristle with scattered branches provided
with thorns or thorny leaves, but as you reach the higher elevations, where the
"Puna formation" proper is found, the extended plains and broad valleys are
thickly wooded with immense specimens of the same type of trees, growing far up
on the mountain sides. In some parts, and especially in the sierras of San Luis and
Cordova, these forests are so beautiful and picturesque in their arrangement that
they look like artificial parks.
Among the most noted of the trees which characterize these everchanging land-
scapes is the algarrobo (Prosopis alba), specific gravity 0.740. The size of this species
varies, according to locality, from mere bushes to quite lofty trees, branching, how-
ever, at a short distance above the ground, with thin tops of feathered leaves.
