54 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
While the timber is much esteemed for construction, its fruit, which is a pod of
sweet pulp, is an excellent food for cattle. The natives also make a species of bread
out of it called palao, and also extract a liquor from it which when new is quite
refreshing, but after fermentation is very intoxicating, and hence is a favorite bever-
age at some of their social meetings.
The nandubay (Acacia cavernia) is a small tree, whose hard and heavy wood make
it much sought after for fence and telegraph posts. It is said to be almost indestruc-
tible, neither air, water, nor earth having any effect upon it. It produces a fruit
which contains a great deal of tannin, and is also employed as a black dye. Specific
gravity, 1.100 to 1.221.
The Acacia molinifornm bears a fruit also much sought after by cattle, though
most of the species are characterized by such enormous thorns that in some parts
the woods are almost impenetrable. I would add that a gum exudes from these trees
which I believe could be made into gutta pereha if the proper processes were
employed.
Another very important tree found in this formation is the quebracho, the most
frequent variety of which in these forests is the white (aspidosperma quebracho).
It is of middle size, with oblong, thorny leaves. It forms great forests in some dis-
tricts, and its timber is very useful for various purposes, and latterly has been
applied in the xylographic art. It takes an exquisite polish. Specific gravity, 0.880.
The moyes or molles is also a valuable evergreen tree and exceedingly beautiful in
its appearance. One species produces a fruit from which is prepared a sweet, aro-
matic, refreshing liquor; another variety bears a berry from which incense is manu-
factured, and still another is used for tanning purposes, while a fourth variety
(alvarillo del campo) is noted for its savory and refreshing fruits, which are very
similar to plums, and only the more agreeable because they contain a certain after-
taste of bitter almonds. Specific gravity, 0.520.
The chanar (Gurliaca decorticans} is found everywhere throughout the submoun-
tainous regions, and its wood is much appreciated on account of its firmness and
durability. It produces a sweet and savory fruit, and has the peculiarity of annu-
ally renewing its bark. Near the tropics it attains large proportions, though its
trunk is irregular. Specific gravity, 0.568.
GIANT CACTI FORESTS,
There are many other trees in this formation, but they are small and have no value
for timber purposes ; and also a great variety of shrubs and brushes, to say nothing
of vines, 'parasites, epiphytes, airplants, etc., though they do not come within the
scope of this sketch. I must, however, refer to the family of the cacteos, which are
as strange in form as abundant in distribution. They attain to immense propor-
tions, some of them reaching a height of 40 feet, with trunks in proportion, and
their wood is used in different industries and also in the mines. In a late visit to
the northern provinces I passed through a forest of these gigantic cacti. It was one
of the strangest and most weird sights that can well be imagined. They stood in
groups. Here they frowned upon us spherical and spirated with formidable thorns
nearly a foot long, and yet from their grooved sides radiating most delicate flowers;
there they rose in tall fluted columns like ancient ruins, or with their long-jointed
arms in menacing attitude, looked like giant witches beckoning you to stop ; and
yonder through the vista they were trailing like huge serpents over fallen trees or
coiling in the crevices of the outcropping rocks. The largest species is the ccreua,
the flowers of which are white; those of the opuncice are orange color or yellowish
red, while the serpent-formed cactece have lively red flowers. One species produces
the tunas or "figs of Algiers," some breed the cochineal insects, the cultivation of
which is now carried on to some extent in Tucuman, and which, if proper methods
were adopted, could be made of great importance to the country. At present the
