AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 55
natives gather the eggs of the insects and make them into dry compressed balls or
cakes, weighing about a half pound each, which they sell for $1 apiece for commer-
cial purposes.
THE GREAT SUBTROPICAL FORESTS.
We now approach what is designated by Moussy as the " tropical" and by Prof.
Lorentz as the " subtropical" forests. This formation is the garden of the Argen-
tine Republic, and presents to us landscapes of such magnificence and fertility
that we seem to be wandering in an enchanted wilderness. It exists in the high
table-lands on the eastern ranges of the Cordilleras and their branches, whose waters
are drained by a thousand streams and water courses towards the Parana and its
great affluents. These plains and watersheds are all adorned with the rankest of
tropical forests, which pass to the northward beyond the confines of the provinces
of Salta and Jujuy into the territory of Bolivia, thus reaching to the latitude of 21
south.* Nearly all the varieties of trees which characterize the preceding forma-
tions are here found in more accentuated proportions, while it is rich with the mag-
nificence of a hundred additional species, many of them so covered with eplphitea
and airplants that it is sometimes difficult to discover the verdure of the tree to
which they are attached ; and both trees and plants producing flowers of many bril-
liant colors. Gigantic lianoe twine around the trunks and drop their air-roots to the
ground, while their branches reach out and involve the branches of other trees in
the vegetable mesh. Sometimes trees are seen growing upon other trees, their roots
buried in the dust, which through centuries has been accumulating at the foot of
the branches. On one occasion, in climbing to the heights of the Sierra Aconquija,
in the vicinity of Tucuman, I undertook to penetrate this wealth of vegetation
which fairly filled the gorges leading to the table-lands above, and where for ages
the sunlight has been shut out from the earth by leagues upon leagues of arboreal
giants; but the wild and tangled mass of undergrowth disputed every foot of
approach, and I had to relinquish the attempt.
It seems almost impossible to exaggerate the wealth of timber which is found in
these high latitudes. There is hardly a tree but possesses some special value for
particular purposes. There is in the University of Cordova a very rich display of
many of the varieties, being sections taken from the trunks and polished. They
uniformly exhibit an exceedingly fine grain, embracing every shade of color, from
the richest rose to the deepest green, from the darkest ebony to the lightest cream,
some with most exquisite veins and others with manifold variegated hues. In any
/ther country than this they would be esteemed as precious woods, equaling and
rivaling those of Central America or Brazil, but they are at present so remote from
market that for commercial purposes many of them are yet almost valueless. I
*On crossing the Rio de las Piedras, a river of the province of Salta, we entered at
once the territory of Oran, the extreme northern limit of the Republic, which lies
just above the tropic of Capricorn; our path still lying through dense forests,
whose stems were frequently rendered completely invisible by reason of the close
clasp of the thick and tangled mass of creepers which, in full flower, not alone from
summit to base, but roofing the lofty vault with superb campanulate rounded heaps
of blue, white, violet, and rose, emitted overpowering but delicious perfumes. * * *
Our course was soon arrested by another river, the Santa Maria, and on reaching its
further bank we entered the densest forest I ever saw ; not the cathedral-like colum-
nar-stemmed trees, rising 70 or 80 feet without a limb, and then surmounted by a
branched, leafy, floral dome, such as I had seen in other parts of the country, but an
impenetrable mass of entwined, gnarled, fantastic plant development, confusing
trunks, branches, foliage, and flowers in one inextricable melange from top to bot-
tom. Two growths contributed to this effect; one superior, of massive size and
impending, the other inferior and consisting principally of wild orange groves, etc.
(White's Note Book of a Naturalist, vol. xi, p. 307.)
