56 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
could hardly undertake, within the limits of a sketch like this, to give a detailed
description of all the trees composing the magnificent forests of the province of
Tucuman and the valleys of Salta and Oran, so admirably fitted, as they are, for the
purposes of the engineer, the builder, the cabinetmaker, the shipwright, the tan-
ner, and the dyer. I can only assume to mention a few of the most important, so
far as Prof. Lorentz and others have identified them; though in some instances the
scientific names may not be entirely reliable, since in the different parts of the coun-
try the same popular name is given to trees which differ very materially and some-
times have nothing in common save the indigenous name. Besides those which I
have already referred to as especially characterizing other portions of the Republic,
but which are also found in this zone, I would mention the following as the most
common and most magnificent :
The laurel (Nectandraporphyria), which is a very beautiful tree, with a huge trunk
and a dense crown of pinnated leaves, growing to the height of 60 or 70 feet.*
There are several species, all of which are abundant and valuable, especially for
cabinetwork, and one of which contains camphor in its leaves; it rivals ebony in
color and polish. Specific gravity, 0.580 to 0.845.
The tipa (Maclicerium fertile), also possessing a splendid form and rising to the
height of 150 feet, with a straight trunk, which branches about 70 feet from the
ground. In the spring it is covered with papilionaceous flowers, producing a
beautiful effect from a distance; easily worked; used for railway plant. Specific
gravity, 0.660.
The nogal (Fulgans nigrd), very similar to the European walnut, and producing an
edible fruit, and, on account of the ease with which it can be worked and the fine
lustrous polish it takes, it is much used in cabinetwork. Specific gravity, 0.538.
The ramos, two varieties (Cupania uruguensis and C. vernalis), greatly resembling
the nogal in appearance and uses, but very hard, indeed almost impermeable Spe-
cific gravity, 0.576.
The cedro (Cedrela braziliensis). There are several varieties, all producing a most
beautiful wood, soft and easily worked, and therefore in great demand, being used
for furniture, and resembling mahogany in its polish and the rich veins which it
possesses. Specific gravity, 0.480 to 0.740.
The mato (Eugenia mato and E. uniflora), two magnificent species of the Myrtacce,
with myrtiform leaves and edible fruit of the size of a cherry. The wood is rich in
its colors and is used in decorative carpentry. Being tough and flexible, it is also
much used for poles to carriages. Specific gravity, 0.890.
The palo de San Antonio (Myrcinc floribunda), a tree of majestic proportions in the
primitive forests, and producing excellent building timber. Specific gravity, 0.695.
The lanza (Myrcene marginata), also a very majestic tree, and takes a beautiful
polish, thus making it desirable for furniture. Specific gravity, 0.738.
The lapacho (L. bignor^acce), belonging to the genus Tecoma, a tree of great dimen-
sions and very beautiful. It would be almost impossible for the vegetable kingdom to
present a more imposing spectacle than these gigantic trees when their branches,
dark and leafless during the winter, are covered in the spring with millions of yel-
low or rose-colored flowers, which precede the sprouting of the leaves. The wood
is of a green color, hard, heavy, and solid, and susceptible of a very fine polish. It
*Mr. White, in his Notes of a Naturalist, says: "Throughout the forests of Tucu-
111:111 the laurol is everywhere found, sometimes forming extensive forests, in AV'JIOSO
recesses numerous freebooters found, of yore, shelter and safe concealment. Imagine
gigantic trunks, some 9 feet in diameter, jostling one against the other and rising
perpendicularly 70 feet, crowned with an ample and elegant nimbus. Beyond the
mere grandeur and poetry of the scene, the centuries that these patriarchs have
scored their bark, what an inexhaustible commercial and medicinal wealth for future
139.
