58 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
magnificent variety of the family of Legiiminosce, having no thorns and producing
an excellent wood for various purposes. Specific gravity, 0.766.
The mora, a very large tree, with heavy yellow wood, which grains beautifully,
and on being worked takes the color of the richest mahogany, and is greatly used
for the manufacture of the best furniture. The tree produces an edible fruit.
Specific gravity, 0.935 to 1.090.
The quebracho Colorado (Loxopterygium lorentzii). Quite a different tree from the
Q. bianco found elsewhere. It is very abundant throughout the northern portions
of the Argentine Republic. The wood is a deep red, and remarkable for its extreme
hardness and weight. It is almost indestructible. Since the discovery of the
country it has never been found rotten or decayed, no matter in what position, in
air, earth, or water, it might be placed. It forms a most important article of com-
merce, and, owing to the immense size to which it grows, upwards of 200 feet with
10 feet of diameter, is used for ship-timber, beams, spiles, joists, bridges, etc., and
makes most enduring railway sleepers and ties. It also takes an exceedingly fine
finish, and is greatly iu demand in carpentry work for doors, window-frames, cabi-
nets, etc., the luster being equal to that of rosewood. In wood engraving it takes
the place of boxwood. Specific gravity, 1.234 to 1.392.
There are nvmy other valuable trees of the largest size found in this part of the
country, among them the qnina-quina, which produces an aromatic resin, and whose
bark is used as a fever antidote and tonic; the cascaion, with a red and lustrous
bark; the palo mortero, very similar to the tipa already described; the pacay, the
sinquillo, the may ana itara, and others not yet classified, all of which furnish most
valuable timber, each one with some certain quality for certain uses, such as
building, turning, furniture, cabinet-work, etc., but I have no descriptions of them.
In the subtropical forests, which we are considering, there are also numerous smaller
trees, nearly all of them hard wood, bearing a rich 'foliage and exceedingly
ornamental; also a great variety of arborets, bushes, climbing plants, etc., many of
them exquisite coloring in their leaves and flowers, but it hardly comes within the
object of this sketch to mention them.
In the mountains of the Andes, beyond the chain of the Aconquija, and on the
plopes of the Cordilleras proper, is found in extensive forests the pine tree (Podicar-
sus auguftifolia). It is of medium height and of compact crown, but it is not simi-
lar to the European pine. The inhabitants utilize the timber, but there is no demand
for it, on account of its inaccessibility to the market, and it is at present of but
little importance in the economy of the country.
TIMBER RESOURCES OF THE GRAN CHACO.
Along the eastern borders of the subtropical regions whose forests I have been
describing, lies an immense territory, in some parts reported to be arid and waste
for want of water, but in others filled with a succession of rivers, and in time des-
tined to be one of the most valuable portions of the Argentine Republic. It is
called the "Gran Chaco." It extends from the Parana" to Bolivia, and is separated
on the east from Paraguay by the river of the same name. The last Argentine cen-
sus gave it a superficial area of 621,000 square kilometers, but as its limits have not
yet been fixed with the neighboring provinces, its real area can not yet be determined.
It is divided by the river Vermejo into two almost equal parts, one called the "Cham
Austral" and the other " Chaco Boreal," the last extending to latitude 20 south,
and hounded on the north by the Bolivian province of Chiquitos. The "Chaco
Horeal " is composed of an uninterrupted plain elevated about 400 feet above the
level of the sea, with a heavy soil of humus, and is divided into the most beautiful
forests with intervening meadows as if made on purpose for the raising of cattle.
The Austral or Southern Chaco lies between the Vermejo on the north, the Parana on
the east, and the province of Santa Fe" on the south. It is also completely level and
U richly endowed by nature, not only with a deep soil but with most magnificent
