AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 59
forests. As yet those vast regions are almost exclusively occupied by wild Indians.
A large portion has never been explored, and hence but little is yet known of the
interior with its treasures of vegetable wealth. Only where it skirts along the
Parana" and Paraguay rivers, with here and there a small clearing and settlement,
the nucleus of a number of agricultural colonies, has anything been scientifically
determined in reference to its timber resources. As far, however, as its fastnesses
with their succession of small rivers and watercourses have been penetrated they
are found to be covered with the densest forests of lofty trees descending down to
the river line. The growth may not be quite so noble and sky-piercing as that which
is found in the forests of Tucuman and Oran 7 but it embraces, so far as is now known,
quite the same varieties and an equal abundance. And the region possesses this
immense advantage, that by means of the great watercourses flowing along its east-
ern borders and the smaller streams, including the Vermejo and Pilcomayo, which
penetrate its interior and which are found to be navigable for many hundreds of
miles, all its vast wealth of precious woods and valuable timber is rendered accessi-
ble not only to Buenos Ayres, but, as ocean ships can load along its banks, also to the
markets of the world, without the necessity of transshipment. As I have said, the
more elevated portions of the Chaco present a landscape like a park where clumps
of woods alternate with open meadows. The lower parts are covered with continu-
ous forests and an undergrowth which in some places is so dense as to make it impos-
sible to penetrate into the interior. But the woodchoppers are at work, and the
quantities of all kinds of precious woods which are shipped down the rivers are
becoming greater and greater every year, As yet the greatest demand in this mar-
ket is for the quebracho of both varieties, which finds a use in almost every kind of
construction. The algorrobo is also in great request, as likewise the nandubay, immense
quantities of the posts of which tree are used for wire-fencing on the Pampas.
Besides what comes to Buenos Ayres, however, there are ship loads after ship loads,
which are exported directly to Germany and France, and there made into the most
costly articles of furniture, or sawed up into veneering which rivals anything which
comes from Brazil or Central America. I have said that nearly all the varieties of
trees which I have heretofore described as belonging to the subtropical forests are
also to be found in the Chaco. There are also numberless varieties which seem to be
especially indigenous to that region. Among these are the following:
The bianco grande, a beautiful tree which grows to the height of 25 feet and is 18
inches in diameter. Its wood possesses a very fine fiber, and is used for mechanical
moldings, and also for cabinet work. Specific gravity, 0.720.
The carandd. It belongs to the family of the algorrobos. It grows to the height
of 30 to 40 feet, with a trunk of 18 inches in diameter. The color of its wood is
violet, very solid, and of an excellent grain, and valuable for furniture and cabinet
work. Specific gravity, 1.197.
The carapay (Acacia altramentaria), a large and beautiful tree. The bark is used
for tanning hides and is an important article of commerce. The wood is red, with
black veins, which polishes exquisitely and is used for fine furniture, cabinet work,
and veneering. The wood is very durable and is excellent for railway sleepers.
Specific gravity, 0.977 to 1.180.
The cuiru, one of the tallest trees to be found in the Chaco. It attains a height
of over 150 feet, with a diameter of not more than 4 feet. Excellent for masts, yard-
arms, rafters, etc. Specific gravity, 0.580.
The timbo. This is also a large tree, having a height of 70 to 80 feet and a diam-
eter of 3 to 3| feet. It is a soft wood of about the consistency of pine, though in
color it resembles cedar. It is greatly used and makes excellent flooring, weather
boarding, etc., having the good quality of not warping, though flexible and light.
Specific gravity, 0.425.
The palma (Copernica campestris}. Several varieties, and especially the black and
the yellow palm, are found in the Chaco, where they occupy large tracts in forests
