AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 61
the great forest of Montiel, which covers the sixth part of that province. The
province of Corrientes is even more woody, and with a more tropical development,
until we reach "Misiones" and the neighboring Republic of Paraguay, which offer
a wealth of timber, rivaling any thing that can be found even in the far-famed regions
of Oran, not only in dimensions, but also in the fineness of the grain. Most of the
varieties which compose the forests of the Gran Chaco are also indigenous to the
"Misiones" and Paraguay, while there are a great number of new species, many of
which having never been scientifically classified, still flourish under the names given
them since time immemorial by the Guaraud Indians.
During the recent Argentine National Exposition held in Buenos Ayres, there was
on exhibition a most magnificent collection of the various woods which are found
in the above regions, consisting of lateral sections of the trees, exquisitely polished
so as to exhibit the grain and texture. The collection was credited to Paraguay,
but it corresponds equally well to the upper portions of the province of Corrieutes
and the territory of Misiones, and as it embraces nearly or quite all of the valuable
timber indigenous to those regions, I give the list complete according to the names
by which the trees are locally known.
TREES OF THE MISIONES AND PARAGUAY.
1. Sapyy, a large tree suitable for various uses.
2. Ibyra-yu-qnazu, large and grows to a grand height with dense foliage; timber
valuable for building purposes.
3. Laurel amarillo, the yellow laurel, also an immense tree, beautifully grained, and
useful in all kinds of construction.
4. Quebracho, like that found in other subtropical regions, very hard and heavy and
quite indestructible; serves for various purposes.
5. Ibyrd-pitd, a large tree with very hard wood, used in carpentry work.
6. Cedro Colorado, the red cedar, a very light wood which is as soft as satin, employed
in cabinetwork, and resembles mahogany in its beautiful veins.
7. Timbo, a large and bushy tree with white wood, very light, and the natives make
canoes of it.
8. Lapacho piruzii, a variety which has exceedingly fine fibers, used for cabinetwork
and other constructions of the first class.
9. Lapacho, the same valuable tree which has heretofore been referred to.
10. Urundey-mi, a tree of ordinary size, but much used for various purposes in car-
pentry work.
11. Guayaybi, a small, flexible tree, used for handles of tools and other things.
12. Curupay-guazA, a tree of grand proportions, used for the manufacture of furni-
ture, owing to the fine polish it takes.
13. Curupay-ran-, rather a small tree, used for cabinetwork.
14. Urupiu pita, fine grained, and used for the same purposes as the preceding.
15. Yuqtteri-busu, ah immense tree, used in heavy constructions and house-carpentry.
16. fbyra-poroite, of ordinary size, but very fine grain, and useful for cabinetwork.
17. Urn pia-mi, a very large tree, whose timber is used for planking and furniture.
18. Camba-acd, a small tree with exceedingly hard wood; has various uses.
19. Espina de oorona, an immense tree; wooil very hard; in general use for heavy
timbers, but takes a beautiful polish, and valuable for various purposes.
20. Array an, of ordinary size, used in decorative carpentry.
21. Incivnao. This is the incense tree, so called from the pungent smell of the resin
which exudes from it; a very large tree, used for cabinetwork.
22. Gnabird, a large tree which bears a delicious fruit; the timber used in carpentry
work and for other purposes.
23. Iba-hai, a tree of rather large proportions, whose timber takes a, fine polish and
is useful in cabinetwork.
24. Yatayrd, large, but of little use.
