62 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
25. Caohoveti- fjlaz u, the same.
26. Aquai, a large tree which produces an excellent fruit and whose timber is
employed for various purposes.
27. Ibard-r6. This tree likewise produces fruit and finds a general use for furniture
and carpentry work.
28. Granadilla quazu bears a fruit, but its timber is little used.
29. Tatar <?, a tree of ordinary size ; its bark is used for dyeing purposes and its tim-
ber for all kinds of carpentry work, having a beautiful grain which takes a
fine polish.
30. Corupicay, large and resinous ; makes beautiful furniture.
31. Tembetary -negro, a large tree with dark wood that is handsomely veined; used
for furniture.
32. Ingd-blanco, also used for furniture.
33. retereby, a large tree with wide-spreading branches, producing a heavy timber,
which is used in constructions and building.
34. Aratren- quazu, ordinary size and bears a pleasant fruit; not much used.
35. rbirayii-quazu, a very large tree, whose timbers are much used for heavy build-
ing purposes.
36. Yagua-ratay, of little use, though a hard, compact wood.
37. Taperibd, large and bushy, used also in heavy constructions.
38. Ibira-ptipti, the same.
39. Timbaly, very straight and tall wood white ; used for beams, axle-trees, etc.
40. Navanjo-agrio. This is the bitter-orange tree ; heavy, and used for cabinetwork.
41. Tembetery-blanco, large, with very light wood of a white color; not much used.
42. Cupay, very large proportions ; the wood exceedingly fragrant, richly veined,
and used for cabinetwork.
43. Parapary, large tree, producing a very fine-grained wood, which takes a beauti-
ful polish ; used in all kinds of carpentry work.
44. Nandapd-mi, very similar to the above.
45. Guiray, the same.
46. Urundey-mi, a very large tree, close-grained, which polishes well; used for cabi-
network and other purposes.
47. Guiavi-saise. a large tree, which works easily and is used for many purposes.
48. Curupay-rad, moderate size; wood used for cabinetwork.
49. Ibyra-pita, a very large tree, whose timber is valuable and used for building
purposes.
50. Ibirayu-grande, grows to a great height, and is used for cabinetwork.
51. Incierso-amarillo, a tree of great proportions, which serves for the manufacture
of furniture and railway carriages.
52. Urundey-pard, a large tree, greatly admired for the beautiful veins of its wood,
used for fine cabinetwork and also for wood engraving on account of its
hardness and fineness of grain.
53. Taperiba-guazu, a tree of immense proportions, and whose lumber is used for
building and other purposes.
54. Guayaybi-blanco, not of very large size, but its wood is very flexible; useful in
carpentry work.
55. Ibyra-r6, rather a large tree, in general use for various constructions.
56. Laurel-negro, also a large tree, whose timber is beautifully veined, the wood
being almost black ; used for fine cabinetwork.
57. Tatane', a large tree whose bark is used for coloring, and whose wood is much
esteemed in carpentry work.
58. Iba-poroiti, a tree which bears a delicious fruit and whose wood, very fine
grained, is used for cabinetwork.
59. Iba-hai, very similar to the above; its wood is used for inlaid or mosaic work.
60. Caahobety Colorado, very tall and slender, whose wood is used for beams, axle-
trees, etc.
