AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 63
61. Ibyra-hobi, also a tall, slender tree, and used for like purposes as the preceding.
62. Cunipay-liu, a large tree, whose timber is used for furniture and other things.
63. Campeche, of large size, and very dark-colored wood, which takes a fine polish.
and is used for cabinet and other work.
64. Palo de lanza, of ordinary size, but possesses a very fine wood, and is used for
finest cabinetwork.
65. Palo-rosa-colorado, the darkest colored rosewood; used for veneering and finest
grades of furniture.
66. Timbo-colorado, a large tree, easily worked ; wood used for making wagons and
railway cars.
67. Guayaibi-blanco, a tree of ordinary size; used for furniture, etc.
68. Guayacan, rather a small tree, but its wood is extremely hard and used for many
purposes.
69. Tatayiba, a very large tree with beautiful dark wood, which is used for furni-
ture, cabinetwork, etc.
70. Palo Tanto, of ordinary size; used for various purposes.
71. Iba pobo, a large tree which is much used for elegant cabinetwork, owing to its
beautiful veins.
The uncivilized names of the most of these trees may not be very attractive read-
ing, but it is almost awe-inspiring to wander through the immense primeval forests
in which these arboreal mouarchs stand as solemn witnesses of the centuries which
have passed since they began their growth.*
The valuable timber which they represent is almost too remote from market to he
available yet; but one is impressed with the bountiful provision which nature has
made for the future wants of mankind.
Those districts of the Misiones which border on the Upper Parana" river are, in
some places, especially distinguished by extensive forests of caoba, the celebrated
mahogany tree of commerce, as also the rosewood (palo dc rosa), so generally used
for veneering, though there are many other trees which take an equal polish and are
fully as handsomely veined. There are two species of the rosewood tree, known in
the country as the male and female. The wood of the first is the hardest and most
difficult to polish, and has no veins; while that of the other is much softer, is of
rather a more pronounced red color, with very dark veins, and furnishes to the
cabinetmaker a most esteemed material. The tree is of great circumference, and
its specific gravity is 0.700.
The cedar of the Misiones is principally found in that portion bordering on
Corrientes. There are three varieties, distinguished from each other by color of the
wood, but all equally adapted to the purposes of commerce. Specific gravity, 0.572.
The pine of the Misiones is generally found in immense forests by itself. It, how-
ever, like many of the other valuable woods of this regiou, hardly yet enters into
commerce, notwithstanding the excellence of its timber, for the reason that more
accessible forests offer other woods as an abundant compensation. Specific gravity,
0.410.
In the forests of Paraguay and Misiones is also to be seen the famous evergreen
tree (flex paragiiaycnsis), which produces the yerba-mnte, the universal beverage of
the natives, and the export duty on which, in great part, affords the national
revenue of Paraguay, the Government having the exclusive monopoly of the trade.
* Speaking of the arborescence of the Misiones, Mr. White, in his Note-book of a
Naturalist, says : "Although I had been accustomed to the vast and imposing forests
of Salta, Jujuy, and especially Oran, this region struck me as even more luxuriant,
not in such arboreal magnificence, but in universal density and impenetrability ;
indeed, the exuberance of timber is such that the very names of the trees are as yet
unknown to Europeans, and even the majority of those with which they have
become familiar are only recognized by their Indian vocables. (Vol. n, p. 421.)
