64 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
In t-hese magnificent forests are also to be found orange and pineapple groves, as
likewise almost every other variety of tree and shrub bearing the delicious fruits of
the tropics. I am told that the orange is not indigenous to these regions, but was
introduced shortly after the Spanish conquest by the Jesuits, who, until their expul-
sion by order of Philip II, occupied all this portion of the country. The tree is
now, however, universally distributed. Some of the orange groves I have visited
in the neighborhood of Villa Occidental, Gran Chaco, and near Asuncion, Paraguay,
were indescribably beautiful, the enormous trees being bowed down by the weight
of their delicious golden produce, while the ground beneath was covered with the
fallen fruit. In the season the oranges are sent by boat-load to Buenos Ay res and
Montevideo. They are also used for distillation and for feeding pigs and cattle,
besides being largely consumed by the natives. Owing to the enormous quantities
produced, they have, however, but little money value in Paraguay, and over in
Buenos Ayres, a distance of over 1,000 miles, I have seen them sometimes sold for
about 50 cents a bushel.
THE FUTURE OF THE TIMBER TRADE OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.
I have thus completed a cursory note, which I believe to be reliable, of the several
arboreal formations into which the Argentine Republic, with its immense extent
from north to south, is naturally divided, beginning with the antarctic forests of
beech, which occupy the greater part of Terra del Fuego and the lauds adjacent to
the Straits of Magellan ; noting the vast pineries, as yet wholly undeveloped, which
skirt the entire eastern slopes of the Patagonian Andes ; following these to where
tho "Monte" formation marks the development of the hard woods; describing the
principal trees of the great subtropical forests of Tucuman, Salta, and Oran; glanc-
ing at the wealth of timber which literally covers the immense unexplored regions
of northern and southern " Chaco," and finally passing in review the marvelous
variety of valuable woods which are found in the thousand miles of territory which
lies between the Parana^ and Uruguay rivers, called the Mesopotamia of the Argen-
tine Republic. The sketch or compilation is not intended as exhaustive of the sub-
ject. It could be very greatly extended, though there are still vast outlying regions
of forests about which little, if anything, is yet definitely known. The report, how-
ever, is sufficient to explode the generally prevailing idea that the Argentine Repub-
lic is entirely a pampa or prairie country and lacking in timber resources, an impres-
sion which has gained credence from the fact that the province of Buenos Ayres,
which abroad is generally taken for the whole country, is to a great extent destitute
of trees; and by the further fact, which seems to be an anomaly, that a very large
part of the lumber used here is still imported from the United States.
In spite of this, however, as I have shown, the greater portion of all the northern
and northwestern provinces is occupied by forests of timber, which not only in
their enduring qualities but in their fineness of fiber, smoothness, and beauty of
coloring will compare favorably with those of any country in the world. Indeed,
in their susceptibility to the highest degrees of polish, and in the striking varieties
andcombinationsof their tints, it is doubtful if any other country^ has woods that
fully equal them. As I have said, the full extent of this arboreal wealth is not yet
known, and we must still wait for a scientific description of a very large proportion
of the country which contains these marvelous timber resources. It is evident,
however, that in the more or less remote future, when the increasing population of
the Argentine Republic has come face to face with these outlying virgin forests, and
railways and a more extensive system of river navigation place a greater commercial
value upon the work of the woodchopper and the lumberman, the markets of the
world, which are just now beginning to realixe the undeveloped wealth which
these forests represent, will be astonished at the amount of precious woods and
valuable timber, suitable for every variety of work, which this country will be able
to supply. Europe is now driving the entering wedge in the mammoth timber trees
