AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS. 65
which skirt the shores of the Upper Parang and the ship-loads, which in the last few
years have gone forward to the cabinet and fine-furniture manufactories of France
and Germany, have so greatly exceeded the expectations as to their value as to
make them more anxious for greater supplies. Indeed it will not be surprising
if the tables will yet be turned, and even the United States, after having quite
exhausted her own forests in supplying the foreign demand, will, in time, be com-
pelled to look to the Argentine Republic for a considerable portion of its lumber.
E. L. BAKER,
Consul.
BUENOS AYRES, June 20, 1S8S.
BRAZIL.
RIO DE JANEIRO.
NATIVE WOODS.
The magnificence of the forests of Brazil and the variety of the
woods they contain would demand a far more extensive treatment ol
the subject than is admissible in an essentially commercial report. In
Amazonas alone, 30 kinds of timber for building and 13 for cabinet-
making are said to exist, while the rest of this vast country presents
an enormous variety of the most luxuriant trees, useful for their tim-
ber as well as for sundry other purposes. If they are not used as they
merit it is owing to the scarcity of labor and the want of proper means
of communication, making in the most cases the native dearer than the
imported woods. I will therefore only mention those commonly em-
ployed for building and other uses.
The^ero&a, the tupinhoa, for naval construction 5 the^ao brazil (Brazil
wood), the cabiuna (brown rosewood), the cedro (cedar), the massaran-
duba,ihe sapucaia, and the laurel are much employed in the lining of ves-
sels. The pdo d'oleo, the goncalo alves, the black and brown canella,
the licurana, and the iron wood (pdo ferro) are also used for ship con-
struction.
The peroba, the cedro, the vinhatico, ihepdo d'oleo, the jacaranda, the
pdo marfim (ivory wood), the pdo setim (satin wood), the ebony, the
licurana, and the ipe are used in cabinet and joiner work.
KINDS OF LUMBER IN USE.
The kinds of lumber preferred are the American and Swedish pine
and the native canella and peroba for construction, and the native
vinhatico jacaranda for cabinet and joiner work.
665A 6
