70 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
CLIMATE.
A description of the climate in this consular district would be value-
less in this connection, as the lumber section begins at Malleco, about
400 miles south, and extends to the Straits of Magellan. The average
rainfall there is 106 inches, and the climate cold and disagreeable eight
mouths in the year, while here the rainfall is only 16 inches and the
cliinai-e is mild, comparing favorably with that of Los Angeles, Cal.
GENERAL BUILDING.
Chilian cities Santiago, Valparaiso, and Concepcion are growing
rapidly, especially the two former, which are in this consular district.
The demand for lumber is brisk and daily increasing. There is no ship-
building in Chile, and at present railway construction is at a standstill.
JAMES M. DOBBS,
Consul.
VALPARAISO, May 1, 1894.
COLOMBIA.
BARRANQUILLA.
NATIVE WOODS.
Colombia is a vast lumber producing country; in many portions of
the interior huge forests, many hundreds of miles square, cover its
face, representing woods of different values.
To name all the woods of Colombia would be to make an extensive
catalogue. The principal, however, are cedar, guayacan, carreto, roble,
campano, mahogany, ceiba, and brazil. They may be classified as
follows:
Cedar. This is the most common wood in use. It is easily worked,
and possesses a bitter quality, which is a preventive against an insect
called the comejen, a species of wood ant, very destructive to many
other kinds of wood. In house construction, excepting for flooring
beams, cedar is universally used.
Guayacan. This is the lignum vitae, and is very hard. It is used
principally for railroad sleepers, and thousands are shipped to Cuba, to
the Isthmus of Panama, and Central America. This wood resists the
penetration of spikes, and holes have to be bored before they can be
driven. It is of dark color, with occasional light streaks running
through it.
Carreto. This is a light-colored wood, also very hard, and is destruct-
ive to carpenters' tools. It is used in timbers for construction, the ends
which enter the walls being usually charred or dipped in coal tar, as a
