AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKKTS. 71
preventive against rot. Timber of Carreto will last for centuries.
Being a handsome wood, capable of receiving a fine polish, it is used in
furniture, such as presses, counters, trunks, and household objects.
Roble. This is a softer wood, of light color, and very tough. It per-
tains to the family of the oak. It is used to a considerable extent in
the manufacture of furniture.
Gampano. Trees of this wood grow to an immense size and height,
and are hewn and dug out into canoes and boats of very considerable
dimensions. A well-made native canoe, sometimes 90 feet in length, is
really a work of art.
Mahogany. This is a handsome wood of rich, dark color, but is infe-
rior in grain to that of Santo Domingo or Honduras. It is not exten-
sively used.
Ceiba. This is a wood of rather a light rosy tint, and is used in the
manufacture of household articles.
Brazil. This tree grows in some parts of Columbia.
Fustic. The common fustic of commerce grows extensively in the
interior.
The working of timber into beams and boards by native workmen is
usually accomplished with the old-fashioned cross-cut saw, and a
species of uncouth pattern of the old Spanish ax.
KINDS OF LUMBER USED.
As to " what kind of lumber is preferred," that entirely depends on
the use to which it is put; as cedar for house construction, carreto for
timbering, and guayacan for sleepers.
IMPORTS AND DUTY.
No lumber is imported from any other country than the United States
Formerly quite a quantity of yellow pine was brought from some
ports of the Southern States, in sailing vessels entering the river, but
of late the very high rate of exchange (205 per cent premium), has
nominally stopped importation. When timbers of great length are
required yellow pine meets the want.
Undressed lumber pays no duty; dressed lumber (a board planed
and tongued and grooved), pays 1J cents per kilo.
CLIMATE.
The climate of this consular district is delightful. During the Octo-
ber rain and December "northers," I have known the thermometer to
go as low as 74 F., while during the warmer season, in the most fa-
vored part of this city for instance where this consulate is located I
have never seen it rise above 88.
