76 AMERICAN LUMBER IN FOREIGN MARKETS.
IMPORTS AND PRICES.
The lumber imported at Guayaquil during the year 1893 amounted to
1,600,000 feet, all from the United States and all dressed lumber.
E. Rohde & Co. were the importers. Very little lumber is imported at
the other ports of the Eepublic.
DUTY AND PRICES.
The import duty on lumber is one-half centavo (say one-fourth cent,
American gold) per kilogram, plus 30 per cent ad valorem.
Lumber sells in Guayaquil at from 7J to 9 centavos per foot, say
$37.50 to $45 per thousand.
CLIMATE.
This country is called Ecuador because the equator covers it Quito,
the capital, being almost on the line, and Guayaquil being scarcely two
degrees south of it. The vegetation, however, is not tropical ; at least it is
not tropical in the great valley of the Guayas. The climate is hot, but
from May to December, the dry season, the heat is tempered by an almost
constant southwest breeze, the Ghonduy, and by clouds. For months
at a time, the sun will not be seen, although during that time, it does not
rain a drop. From December till May, the rainy and sickly season,
when it is not raining the sun frequently comes out with great force
right overhead, but during the dry season, there are weeks of weather
which one word will probably describe delicious.
GENERAL BUILDING.
Houses are constantly being built in Guayaquil, but the amount of
imported lumber used in their construction is not very great. Ship-
building is limited to small craft. The river steamboats and the launches
used in the port are generally imported from the United States and put
together here.
Eailroad building, it is thought, will soon begin. There are only
about 50 miles of railroad in operation in the Eepublic that which runs
from Durau (across the river from Guayaquil) to Chimbo, at the foot-
hills of the mountains. There is a short line in course of construction
at Mochala, and a survey has recently been made for the extension of
the line from Chimbo towards Quito. This is a great undertaking
which awaits capital and enterprise.
GEO. G. DELLATCD,
Consul- General
GUAYAQUIL, April 24, 1894.
