91
(2) var. raphani the summer form, with underside of hindwings
yellowish instead of green. Perhaps there is also ab. anthracina
white darkened by black scaling. Examples taken in the South of
England rarely reach the size of the Sicilian summer form.
(3) bAichlo'e (Anthocharis) belia [cramen). — When Cramer figured
belia about the year 1790, his type specimen was a female he had
received from Smyrna and his object was to differentiate it from a
female cardamines, and he adds I do not know if the males have
also an orange coloured blotch (tache) on the forewing as that of
the just mentioned cardamines. However, the name belia has with-
stood all the efforts of the nomenclature revolutionists. [This is not
so. Dr. Verity has conclusively shown (1913, Jin. Linn. Soc, Z(»d.)y
that we should call this species crameri. This our nomenclature
committee has confirmed. — H.J.T.] I have to thank Mr. Turner for
kindly letting me examine his Kuchloes for varieties and abnormal
specimens. Var. ausonia is said to be the summer form of belia.
These which I exhibit belong to the two broods, but in no case can
I find the silvery spotting on the underside, which is said to distin-
guish belia from ausonia. Altogether there are five forms of belia
said to occur in Sicily and South Italy, var. ausonia the summer
form, ab. romana a transition from belia to ausonia, ab. hritgtri
broader greyish-black apex to forewing and underside of hindwing
sharply marked with dark green and white, ab. trinacria apex
strongly spotted with white and underside of hindwing showing
strongly developed white spots, and ab. matutia only small white
spots in black area of forewing the middle black spot being very
large and underside of hindwing showing only a few small white
spots. My specimens are from a wide area, ranging from sea-level
to over 5,000 ft. up, the small specimen, ab. minor we might call it>
was captured at Motta St. Anastasia, on the plain of Catania, where
the River Simeto flows very sluggishly to the sea.
(4) Anchocharis {bhichlo'e) cardamines. — I apologise for showing
these specimens as they have been shewn before. I am very fond
of the small race found on Mt. Etna, which at its "dwarfist"
extends no more than one inch and one line. Apparently the
central spot varies much in size. A dwarf form has been named
ab. hesperidis by Newnham and ab. minor by Cockerell. A southern
form with orange patch reaching only to the black median spot has
been named ab. turritis. Seitz's description of cardamines says
" the average red patch does not reach much further than the
discocellular spot" and I have put in several specimens which agree
with this description from various parts of Italy. In addition I
