92
have added a form from Kandersteg, where the orange patch
extends beyond the spot, which is small ; a Kent specimen with
extended orange, and a Hampshire specimen with limited orange."
Mr. Dennis exhibited photographs of a recently differentiated
species of Ant, Formica pratensis, which was closely related to the
well-known species F. rufa.
Mr. Stallman exhibited a remarkable specimen of Timiocampa
gothica ? , with right underwing reproducing the markings of the
forewing, but rather confused by streaks towards the apex of the
wing of the normal underwing colour, the markings are also rather
cramped up owing to the small size of the wing, it being slightly
smaller than usual and of a somewhat different shape. The under
surface of the wing is quite normal, with the central dot. It
was taken at " sallow " at Holmwood, on April 4th of the present
year.
Mr. B. W. Adkin exhibited the following specimens of Lepidoptera
from Loch Lomond taken in 1914 : —
Ccenonijmpha pamphilus. — Undersides of the females suffused with
white. The spots opaque. The males very dark. Specimens from
S. England for comparison, one of which had an extra spot on the
forewing.
Brent his selene. — A dark suffused female. A specimen from
S. England for comparison.
Diacri$ia sannio. — A dark suffused male of large size. A
specimen from S. England (Tilgate Forest) for comparison of the
usual S. England small form, but with a minimum of suffusion in
hindwings.
Mr. Adkin remarked that Lepidoptera were plentiful on the banks
of Loch Lomond and evidently interesting — but he had little
opportunity for collecting there. Other species noted included
Acidalia famata, Cabera pusaria, Fulype hastata, Xanthorhu'e sociata,
X. tristata, X. montanata, lodis lactearia, Campto<jramina bilineata,
Loiiiaspilis marginata, Hcemaris tityus, etc. The specimens of
C. pawphilus and D. sannio appeared to be typical of the local
forms, but the B. selene exhibited was the most suffused of a large
number taken and observed.
Mr. Sich then read a short paper, " Notes on Tortrix viridana."
(see page 15.) In the discussion which ensued it was remarked that
a specimen or two representing a second brood had occasionally
been met with. As a remedy against the depredations of this pest,
it was stated that probably spraying was the most effective.
Mr. Adkin noted that on one occasion at Chattenden he had found
