93
a considerable number of pupse of the species in spun-up leaves of
honej'suckle, growing beneath an oak which was absolutely denuded
of its foliage by the larval attack.
MAY 27th, 1915.
]\Jr. Alfred Sieh exhibited ova of Tortrix viridana, laid in
pairs and covered with scales from the parent, in the rough bark of
oak. He also showed the cases and young larvae of a Solenobia,
possibly lichenella. Only females were observed. The cases were
three-sided. The pupa thrusts itself partly out of the case before
emergence. The female begins laying eggs immediately after
getting free from the pupa skin. The eggs are laid not in the pupa
shell, but in the case. The larvfe hatched in about four weeks
after the eggs were deposited. The cases were found at Barnes.
Mr. H. Moore exhibited a number of Lepidoptera he had recently
received from Johannesburg, South Africa, including Hypolininas
wisippus, the female of which is almost indistmguishable from its
" model " Lintnas chnjaippris ; Precis sesa))iHs, a member of a genus
whose species are remarkable for their dimorphic and polymorphic
forms ; Colias electa, the South African representative of our British
Colias edusa, and its dimorphic white female var. aurivillius ; the
common " swallow-tail " of South Africa, Papiiio ileinodocus ; the
small forms of Pyranieis cardui, which are characteristic of the
southern race ; Hippotion celerio ; and the beautiful deep green
Sphingid Basiothia media.
Mr. B. S. Williams exhibited a number of larvae of Xylophasia
scolopacina taken near Finchley, and a series of 'Idcopteryx
(Lobophora) polycomvuita from Yeovil, Somerset.
Mr. Lachlan Gibb, on behalf of Mr. H. M. Simms, of Stourbridge,
a fine suffused aberration of Pyrameis huntera, a dwarf specimen of
the same species with the typical form for comparison, all from
Montreal, Canada, taken in 19.13 ; a specimen of Bithyn quercus ab.
belltis, in which a small orange patch is present in the disc of the
forewings, taken near Barmouth in August, 1910 ; and an
aberration of Pharetra (Acronicta) menyantliides, in which the
orbicular stigmata are absent, taken near Sheffield in June, 1912.
Mr. Priske exhibited an example of the Coleopteron Morica
planata, a Tenebrionid from Gibraltar.
Mr. E, J. Bunnett read a short paper entitled " The Maple
Aphis," and illustrated his notes by drawings and lantern-slides.
(See p. 21).
