94
In addition, a few other lantern-slides were shown by Mr.
Bunnett, including the pygmy nest of the shrew mouse in an open
field ; an Zyg;ienid with the poUinia of an orchid attached to its
head ; the noctule bat, the largest British species ; and a series
showing the slough of a newt.
MAY 29th, 1915.
Field Meeting at Ranmore Common and Pickett's Hole.
Leader.— }1y. J. Turner, F.E.S.
The morning party took the well-known road to Bagden Farm,
turned in the gateway of the footpath to Eanmore, and spent some
time in the hollow between the woods. Thence the little frequented
path along the foot of the northern slope of the woods was taken
past the lonely Tanner's Hatch Farm, subsequently at some
considerable distance further on, a south-westerly traverse of the
woods was taken which brought the party out on to the centre of
Ranmore Common. This was crossed and a footpath leading
through the woods to the crest of the chalk escarpment was taken,
from whence a gap in the fence led by a dark overhanging private
way to the top of the prominent hill which dominates the great
hollow known to entomologists as Pickett's Hole. Here a halt was
called for a meal, in view of the long Holmesdale Valley below and
the range of sand hills opposite, which culminates in the tower
crowned Leith Hill. On the opposite slope of the Hole oth§r
members of the party were espied and afterwards met. The steep
declivity was negociated, and the hollow and the slopes leading
from it were well-searched for Zijgffna trifoUi and Ar/riades thetis,
but with little success, only one or two examples of either species
being obtained, although later on a restricted area further east
produced the latter species in absolute abundance. The afternoon
party joined the others on these slopes and a total attendance of
considerably over twenty was attained. Unfortunately the day was
by no means bright, and slight showers were experienced, the
return home being in very cool air.
Very few results of the meeting have been sent on to me, and
the usual possibilities of the area are pretty w^ell-known to our
members. Possibly the most useful species in the morning was
Drepana uwjnicula, which was beaten in some numbers from the
beeches on the northern slope. Just previously, in the hollow
