97
" Six forma of this are described in the book.
1. With narrow orange patch crossed by black nerviires, ab.
restricta-Uneata, n.ab.
2. With broad orange patch crossed by black nervures, ab. lata-
lineata, n.ab.
3. With narrow orange patch not crossed by black nervures, ab.
restricta, n.ab.
4. With broad orange patch not crossed by black nervures, ab.
lata, n.ab.
5. The orange markings yellowish in colour, ab. fisoni (Wheeler).
6. With sub-marginal series of interneural orange streaks in hind-
wings pointing towards base, ab. cuneata, n.ab.
" These forms, or something approaching them, are shown in my
box. There is also another specimen which I cannot place under
any of the above names, and which I think may be a rare if not a
unique variety. It has almost a complete orange border to all
wings and much orange suffusion.
'' Pachygastria trifoli i.— Tntt divides the forms of this insect that
are found in Britain into five groups, depending on ground colour.
1. Ground colour pale yellow, ab. flava.
2. ,, ,, yellow-grey or buff, ab. medicaginis.
3. ,, „ fawn-grey or reddish-grey, ab. ce>-ijma.
4. ,, ,, reddish-brown, trifolii (Esp.).
5. ,, ,, deep foxy red -brown, ab. rufa.
" On looking over a number of specimens this division appears to
be fully justified. The further sub-divisions are less numerous in
some cases than in others, but there is little doubt that specimens
could be found in each division, if the insect were sufficiently abun-
dant, which would show —
(a) All the wings unicolorous and without markings (except pre-
sumably the white spot).
{b) The forewings with two transverse lines, including a more or
less defined median band.
(c) The median band in forewings more or less contracted.
{(1) Ill-defined transverse lines, but well marked longitudinal
nervures.
(e) The basal line obsolete.
" It would be a good collection that exhibited all these sub-
divisions of each shade of ground colour. Myown falls sadly short
of it, and even Tutt's division fails to give many of them, perhaps
some of them have not yet been observed. It is not necessary to
trouble you further with named aberrations or those for which
