98
names have been suggested. I have selected specimens from my
collection which seem to resemble some of those described by Tutt,
and have attached to them some of the names he suggests.
" What is, to me, more interesting is local variation. With regard
to this Tutt suggests two distinct races. (1) The ordinary dark red-
brown form characteristic of the central European races, (2) a dis-
tinct yellow race approximating to the extreme southern (Lambessa)
and eastern Russian and Asia Minor forms.
"The former appears to be the general type from the coasts of
Lancashire, Cheshire, Devon and the heaths of the New Forest,
whilst the latter appears to be confined to the Kent and Sussex
coasts between Dungeness and Beachy Head.
" So far as my experience goes I quite agree with these views, but
I am disposed to think that the specimens from Lancashire and
Cheshire differ considerably from those of the south-western
counties, and that soil and situation do much to lead to local
variation.
"Up to the present I have been unable to fully confirm some of
the views I have formed, but I shall be very grateful for help in the
matter.
" I have brought Pachygastria trifolii for exhibition largely on
account of the more simple division of the forms than Tutt has
favoured us with as compared with the other Lachneides. I should
warmly welcome exhibitions and discussions upon other members
of the group, and would, if my time allows, do my best to assist
them."
JUNE l^th, 1915.
Field Meeting at Otfobd, Kent.
Leader. — Robert Adkin, F.E.S.
The portion of the southern escarpment of the North Downs
adjacent to the village of Otford has already formed the rendezvous
for our Field Meetings on more than one occasion, and considerable
lists of insects, etc., noted there have been published ("Proc," 1903,
p. 47, 1912, p. 96). It will therefore be necessary in the following
report to mention only such species as have not been previously
recorded, or those that some special circumstance makes it desirable
to again refer to them.
A morning party took train to Shoreham, and following a foot-
