99
path on the left soon after reaching the main road, worked their
way along the side of the Down in the direction of Otford ; in the
course of their ramble meeting, among other things, with a small
colony of At/riadex tlwtis {bellar(fus) and a wasted specimen of Cupido
minimus. The afternoon party reached Otford station soon after three
o'clock, where the members of the earlier party were awaiting them,
and a start was at once made for the downs. Some took the path
by the side of the " kennels,' and in a field near the top of the hill
met with the pupae of Zi/f/aena filipendulcE in great profusion on
the grass stems, and from one of these a five-spotted form was
reared, but it was noted later that where the species occurred on the
low ground at the foot of the Downs the larvae were not full-fed.
Having gained the Kingsdown road a start was made in the direc-
tion of that village, with the intention of turning down through the
woods and joining up with the other members of the party at the
chalk-pit, but as it was found that a large part of the district was
under military control, and that anyone found wandering was liable
to arrest, it was thought to be prudent to return by the lane to the
Kemsing road, and in that way join the other members. This
brought us along the half mile or so of a low park paling, on which
were found at rest quite a number of Hecatera serena and a
specimen each of (Jucnllia unibratica and Hepialiis liipilinus and so
on to the little bit of still-open down by the chalk pit, where the
remainder of the afternoon was spent. From reports which several
of the members present were good enough to send me a note of, the
following among many other species were taken, Pyrameis cardui, a
solitary worn specimen was seen flying over the top of the hill,
Bithys querciis and Callophrys riibi met with sparingly, Augiades
sylvanus in some numbers, and Rudidia glyphica fell to the lot of
the morning party. Acidalia siibseiiceata, Anticlea nigmfasciaria
and Crambus chrysonuchellun occurred sparingly. A rather well-
marked form of Oxyptilus heterodactyla (teticrii), Mimceseoptiltis fuscus
[pterodactyliis), Feronea aspersana, Sciaphila virgaureana, and Catop-
tria hypericana were all more or less abundant on the short herbage.
Perhaps the most interesting capture of the day was that by Mr.
Sich of Anacanipsis coronillella, a species previously recorded only
from Surrey ; the present specimen, the identification of which has
since been fully verified, thus proving a new record for the county
of Kent. Mr. Sich further reports that a couple of pupae spun up
in leaves of maple produced Tuitrix viridana, but adds that some
oak trees were not far distant, and that some larvfe in rolled sallow
leaves produced the grey form of Tachyptilia populella, also that
