100
among his captures were Ptycholoma lecheana, several Bittalis
senescens, and a few Micropteryx seppella, while Mr. Turner closes
the list of small fry with Chnjsoclista aurifrontella.
The day had been very fine and warm, and by half -past six the
members were glad to adjourn to the Bull Hotel in Otford village,
where a meat tea was awaiting them, to which just a dozen sat
down, and at its conclusion the meeting was brought to a close.
JUNE 24th, 1915.
Mr. Fagg, of Lewisham, was elected a member.
Mr. Stanley Edwards, on behalf of Mr. G. Dawson, exhibited the
following remarkable aberrations of European butterflies : —
Polyomwatiis escheri, underside, in which the whole of the sub-
marginal black spots were considerably, but not uniformly, elongated.
Melitaea dictynna, underside, nearly the whole of the markings
on the hindwings were elongated and much confused, while those
on the forewings were much suffused and unrecognisable. The
upperside of this specimen was almost wholly black with a light
sub-marginal narrow band to forewings as the only easily apparent
marking.
Brenthis pales, upperside, very suffused, scarcely a trace of the
usual definite black spotting on the forewings, quite comparable to
the race found in the Heuthal, Bernina Pass. The underside was
quite normal in marking and colour.
Epinephele jurtina,a, xanthic form, with hindwings almost wholly
pale and forewings largely pale in colour.
Polyouimatns hylas, underside, with the outer marginal areas on
all the wings very uniformly pale in colour, the orange eye spots
very strongly emphasised, and the rest of the markings very clearly
developed.
Melitaea didyma, underside, with nearly all the markings
elongated.
All but the last species came from the Rhone Valley, Switzer-
land ; the last came from Digne. (See Plate I.)
Mr. Edwards also exhibited nests of the humble-bee, Bomlnis
lapidarins, from which the perfect' insects were emerging. They
were obtained a day or two before in Worcestershire.
Mr. W. West (Greenwich), exhibited the following uncommon
species of Coleoptera taken by him in late May and early June in
the New Forest : —
