101
Leptura scntellata, Mesosa mtbila, Anoplodera sexyuttata, Gram-
tnoptera praetista, Clytus arietis, Anitys ruhens, Elater sanyidnolentus,
Elater miniatus, Trachys troglodytes, Ayrilus viridis, Colydium
elongatum, Thymalits liinbatus, Ips 4-ffiittata, Ischnomera saiiguini-
collis, Aphodius niijer.
Messrs. B. W. Adkin, R. Adkin, Hy. J. Turner, A. E. Gibbs, and
F. W. Cowham, exhibited series of Lasiocampa quercus and Mr. B.
W. Adkin subsequently read notes on the species.
Mr. Gibbs showed a male with complete female coloration from
the New Forest.
Mr. Cowham exhibited a female which was bred from a larva
taken at Epsom. It was two j-ears in pupa, emerged in May and
was of the form var. calliouE. He also showed a specimen in
The Society is indebted to the kindness of Mr. VV. G.
Dawson, F.E.S., ot the Manor House, Upper Wick, Worcester,
one of our Life-member.s, for the coloured plate, which illus-
trates the exhibit on the opposite page and forms the frontis-
piece to the present volume.
'"J
callimic.
Mr. B. W. Adkin read the following notes on his exhibit : —
"At our last meeting I exhibited specimens of Pachyt/astria
trifuUi, showing a range of ground colour from palest yellow (ab.
pallida-flava) to deep foxy red -brown (ab. rufa). That insect is, I
think, the most variable of all the Lackneides. To-night I am
exhibiting specimens of another species of the same family for the
purpose of tracing a similarity in variation of ground colour, and I
am pleased to say several members are supporting."
''Lasiocampa querent. — With regard to this species Tutt states that
" the study of the variation is exceedingly interesting and difficult."
I am in entire agreement with this statement. " Besides colour
aberrations, in which individual specimens may vary from the dark
chestnut brown of the most extreme male forms to the yellow of
the female forms, the character of the pale transverse band also
varies from a narrow line to a wide band that may spread to the
outer margin of the wing, and offers a basis of variation for a great
