101
Leptura scutellata, Mesosa niihila, Ano-plodera sexguttata, Gram-
moptera praeusta, Clytus arietis, Anitys riibens, FAater sanguinolentus,
Elater mhiiatns, Trachys troglodytes, Ayrilus viridis, Colydium
elongatum, Thymalns limbatns, Ips 4-guttata, Ischnnmera sanguini-
collis, Aphodius niger.
Messrs. B. W. Adkin, R. Adkin, Hy. J. Turner, A. E. Gibbs, and
F. W. Cowham, exhibited series of Lasiocawpa quercns and Mr. B.
W. Adkin subsequently read notes on the species.
Mr. Gibbs showed a male with complete female coloration from
the New Forest.
Mr. Cowham exhibited a female w^hich was bred from a larva
taken at Epsom. It was two j'ears in pupa, emerged in May and
was of the form var. call time. He also showed a specimen in
which the conspicuous white discoidal spot was duplicated on the
■3ft forewing.
Mr. Robert Adkin also exhibited long series of Lasiocampa
quercns from Scotland and North and South England, the moat
remarkable specimen being a gynandromorph in which the wings
and antenna on the left side were normal male, while on the right
side the antenna was normal female, but the wings, although of
female size, were of male coloration, and in the hindwing the usual
pale band was practically absent. He said that it was many years
since he had reared this species in any numbers, but he well
remembered that the conclusion he then came to was that there
was no clear dividing line between L. qaercm and its variety
calluniE.
Mr. B. W. Adkin read the follow^ing notes on his exhibit : —
"At our last meeting I exhibited specimens of Pachygastria
trifuUi, showing a range of ground colour from palest yellow (ab.
pallida-fiava) to deep foxy red-brown (ab. rufa). That insect is, I
think, the most variable of all the Lachneides. To-night I am
exhibiting specimens of another species of the same family for the
purpose of tracing a similarity in variation of ground colour, and I
am pleased to say several members are supporting."
" Lasiocampa qnercm. — With regard to this species Tutt states that
" the study of the variation is exceedingly interesting and difficult."
I am in entire agreement with this statement. " Besides colour
aberrations, in which individual specimens may vary from the dark
chestnut brown of the most extreme male forms to the yellow of
the female forms, the character of the pale transverse band also
varies from a narrow line to a wide band that may spread to the
outer margin of the wing, and offers a basis of variation for a great
