102
number of local forms, which are often further specialised by a
marked increase or decrease in size." No less than 40 pages in
Tutt, some of them in extra small print, are devoted to a discussion
upon the variation of this species, and varietal names abound. To
deal with these pages, at a meeting of this kind, is impossible, so
I have contented mj'self with showing a few specimens from my
collection to illustrate variation in ground colour, and variation in
the character of the transverse line.
"With regard to variation in ground colour, Tutt gives for males
(a) reddish ferruginous ; (6) chestnut-brown ; (c) deep purplish or
chocolate-brown ; (r/) russet-brown.
For females (a) yellow or pale yellow ochreous ; (b) dull ochreous ;
(c) faint reddish-ochreous ; (<:/) brown.
I have failed to separate these colours, they may be represented
among those I am exhibiting.
" With all these shades of ground colour there are many varieties
possible. These appear to be mainly as follows : —
Males. — 1. With narrow almost straight line to forewings and
narrow line to hindwings.
2. With narrow curved transverse bands to wings.
3. With broad transverse lines to wings.
4. With normal band to forewings, but the band of hind-
wings extending to outer margin.
5. With transverse band to fore- and hindwings extending
to outer margin.
b. With yellow blotch to base of wings.
Females. — 1. Unicolorous with no transverse markings.
2. With pale transverse band crossing fore and hind-
wings.
3. With outer area of hindwings paler to margin.
4. With outer area of fore- and hindwings paler to
margin.
My exhibit is intentionally arranged to show : —
1. Males — Variation in ground colour.
2. Females — ,, ,, ,,
3. Varieties.
4. Females — Variation in markings.
5. Males — „ ,,
"I find that the rows intended to show difference in ground colour
and those showing difference in marking could almost be transposed.
" As to the varieties : —
Nos. 1 and 2 are males of small size. No. 1 is curiously melanic.
