105
Mr. B. H. Smith reported that among species taken at light in
the Cornwall district he had met with a number of Pi/raineis
atalanta. Mr. R. Adkin said that one of his early observations was
the appearance of P. atalanta at light. It was suggested that the
species was on migration.
JULY Srd, 191.5.
Field Meeting at Swinley Woods, Ascot.
Leader. — B. S. Curwen.
The weather was all that could be desired and there was a good
attendance, a muster of twenty-five. On the way from the station
to the woods Mr. Turner loitered behind and became boisterously
involved in an argument with the irate owner of a fence, which he
was examining from an entomological standpoint. This irascible
individual accused Mr. Turner of being about to make an inscription
on his fence, but whether this was of a scriptural, political,
or even convivial nature did not transpire. After a considerable
mutual exchange of vituperation peace was at length declared, and
Mr. Turner continued his investigation unhindered. This fence is
usually tenanted by numerous Tortrices and Tinea, generally
common species ; all of those taken have been reported on a
previous visit.
On arrival at the ground Arnynnis adippe was found to be in
considerable abundance, flying rapidly over the heather patches
near the brickfield. The flight of this species, however, was quite
different over some rough ground in process of clearing and covered
with brushwood. Here the butterfly fluttered quite close to the
ground and was difficult to net on account of the abundance of the
brushwood. Mr. Sperring captured a striking variety with a much
suffused upperside.
Later in the day the party went to that part of the woods
in which Limenitis sibijlla and lynjas paphia occur. Of the former
species only one specimen was taken, evidently just emerged, and
one or two examples of the latter.
As usual in these woods at this time of year the butterflies were
the principal entomological feature, and the following species were
reported: Fieris brassicd, P. napi, P. rapa, Brenthis seletie, Aniynnis
adippe, Dryas paphia, Aylais urticce, Pyrameis cardui, Limenitis
Sibylla, Pararge megtera (very worn), Epinephele jurtina, E. tithonus.
