106
Aphantopiis hyperantus, Ccenonynipha pamphiliis, Bithys quercus,
Callophrys rubi (not very worn), Plebeiiis agon, Polyommatus icarns,
Adopaa flava {thanmas), and Augiades sylvanus.
The afternoon was extremely hot, and some of the party indulged
in a paddle in one of the numerous ponds deserted by the
brickmakers, much to the disgust of a water vole which sought
refuge in flight.
Among the Heterocera the following species were reported. —
Zyyitna trifolii (a form intermediate between the large palustris
form and the small chalk hill form, including several nice confluent
specimens which are as a rule of much less common occurrence in
the larger races of this species), Hylophila prasinana, Miltochrista
miniata, Lithosia mesomella, L. sororciila, Diacrisia sannio [russula),
Hypocrita jacohcea, Porthesia similis, Leucoina salicis, Trictna psi,
Hypena proboscidalis, H. rostralis, Metrocampa marrjaritaria, Hyria
muricata {anroraria) (a good record), F])naturya atoniaria, Biipalus
piniaria, Semiothisa litarata, etc., with larvae of Hibernia defoliaria,
Geometra papilionaria, Himera pennaria, Drepana falcataria, D.
lacertinaria, Lophopteryx camelina, Notodonta ziczac, N. dromedarius,
Asphalia flavicornis, etc.
The Micro-lepidoptera were poorly represented in the captures,
and Mr. Sich reported that nothing notable was taken.
A notable Coleopteron was taken by Mr. Carr and subsequently
identified by Mr. West as Athoits rhonibeus.
An enjoyable and Avell-earned tea at Messrs. Bullock's in Ascot
village terminated the day's outing just as the expected shower
of rain arrived.
JULY 8th, 1915.
Mr. G. B. Pearson, of Russell Square, was elected a member.
Mr. Stanley Edwards exhibited series of Malacosoma lienstria, M.
castrensis, and Cosnwtnc/ie potatoria, and pointed out the variation
shewn.
Mr. Robert Adkin's contribution to the exhibit was confined to
Cosmotriche potatoria, of which species he showed long series,
in which were included specimens from Scotland, Ireland, and
many parts of England. The chief type of variation was the
tendency in some of the females for their colour to approach that
of the normal male, while in some of the males there was a
tendency to approach the female coloration.
Mr. Leeds exhibited the same three species, and pointed out
