107
the extremes of variation in J/, neuntria, tlae very dark C. potatoria
males from Norfolk, and also the very richly coloured females from
the same district.
Mr. Sperring showed a very beautifully variegated and dark
suffused female of C. potatoria.
Mr. Brooks exhibited a light yellow male and a dark female with
male coloration of C. potatoria from Wicken. He also showed a
series of M. nexstria, including very red forms, forms with only
mere traces of the transverse band, forms with the band nearly-
divided, extremely dark and light forms, and an aberration in which
the band was very clearly white-edged, a male.
Mr. A. E. Gibbs exhibited specimens of C. potatoria, including a
female in which the zigzag markings were obsolescent, a male of
uniform pale putty colour and destitute of markings, a male with a
minimum of markings and of a reddish-ochreous suffusion on
forewings, extremely dark specimens from Cambridge, dark
variegated females from Sussex, and several examples in which the
basal pale blotches are extremely emphasised in area.
Mr. B. Adkin then read the following notes on the three species
exhibited by the members : — •
" To-night I am exhibiting specimens of Alalacosoma castrensisy
M. nenstria, and Cosmotriche potatoria, for the purpose of complet-
ing my exhibition and remarks upon those iMchneides which vary
in ground colour from pale yellow to dark brown.
" It is unnecessary for me to give all the forms and names which
are to be found in Tutt. I will state very shortly the main features
of variation.
" Malacosoma castrensis. — -The sexes are dissimilar, their variation
is on different lines, but the most extreme forms, unicolorous
yellow-ochreous on the one hand and unicolorous red-brown on the
other, occur in both sexes. Between these there are many shades
of colour in both sexes, and a great variety of markings. The
typical male has pale yellow ochreous forewings with brown lines
and coppery coloured hindwings. The typical female is fawn
colour with two transverse yellow lines on forewings. The speci-
mens shown, though far from what I should wish, appear to give a-
good idea of the range of variation.
" Malacosoma nenstria. — In both sexes the ground colour varies
from pale yellow ochreous, or buff", to deep rust-red or red-brown.
The markings vary considerably, either two distinct transverse lines
on forewings, or three united, or broken, or forming a band, or
absent. The typical form is yellow or buff, with two distinct trans-
