108
verse lines to forewing. The females are seldom yellow and more
often banded. The specimens exhibited show much variation.
" Cosiiiotriche jjotatoria. — In this species, as in those above referred
to, the ground colour of both sexes varies from white ochreous to
brown. The typical male is reddish-brown with intermingled j'el-
lowish shades. The typical female is yellow. The literary type
would appear to be the yellow form in both sexes. In my experi-
ence the yellow form of the male and the brown form of the female
are distinctly uncommon. The yellow male appears to be a form
found only in the Fen districts, but the brown female may occur
anywhere.
" The markings of the forewing consist of a curved line near the
base of the wing, which line is sometimes abbreviated and occasion-
ally absent'; a slanting line from near the tip of the forewing to the
centre of the inner margin, which is seldom absent, but varies in
position and straightness ; and a serrated second line outside the
last, which is sometimes absent, and varies in intensity. The last
two lines are often shaded, and perhaps may occasionally join up to
form a complete band, though no specimens in my collection do so.
I have purposely selected the more strongly marked females for
exhibition, the majority of my females are more ordinary, but there
are many districts where heavily marked females and unicolorous
dark brown males are very common.
" Summary. — On reviewing the five species of Lachneides which I
have exhibited, it appears to me that they show great variation of
ground colour in every case. With the exception of L. quercus,
where yellow forms do not appear to occur in the males (the nearest
I have seen was exhibited by one of our members), both sexes would
appear to vary from pale yellow or buff to dark brown. I do not
not call to mind any other group of the Macro-lepidoptera where
a similar variation occurs.
" Yellow forms of brown insects do not appear to be generally
common. There are many British Rhopalocera that are brown in
ground colour, but it is very unusual for the brown to be replaced
by yellow. It is occasionally found among the Ar<jynnidce, e.g., A.
ettphrosyne, the Vanessidce, e.g., FoUjgnnia c-albam, the Satyridce, e.g.,
Epinephele tithonus, E, jurtina [janira), C'tenonyinplia paniphiltis, etc.,
and in Ruraiis betula and Rumicia phlaas, etc. In the Heterocera,
the tendency is seen in Uochlidion {tleterogenea) avellana {liniacodes).
" The more usual change is I think from red to yellow. Among
the Arctiida the hindwings of Arctia villica and Parasemia planta-
ginis are normally yellow though the latter at times inclines to red,
