109
Calliviorpha guaibipitnctaria [hero), normally red, often has j-ellow
and intermediate forms, Arctia caia, normally red in ground colour
of hindwing is not rarely yellow, and yellow hindwings in Calli-
mnrpha duminula, though rare in nature, have come to be exceed-
ingly abundant by means of artificial breeding. The same remark
would appear to apply to the Anthrocerides {Zjj(/acna).
" No doubt there are reasons for these changes in ground colour.
I have not attempted to research, but I feel sure, if a full knowledge
of it is not already available, that it would be an interesting field
for study,"
Mr. Newman stated that he had found it almost impossible to
hybernate the larvae of C. potatoria, and hence one was not able to
ascertain whether any Mendelian characteristics are shown in the
striking variation.
Mr. B. S. Williams exhibited a bred series of Bupalits piniaria
from Leith Hill, including a male of a very pronounced yellow
colour, and a female, which had its colour areas as in the male, but
of two shades of putty colour.
Mr. W. West (Ashtead) exhibited specimens of TriiBna psi and T.
tridens, and asked what were the definite distinction in markings
between the two species. The general opinion was that although
two series side by side were sufficiently different it was practically
impossible to express that difi'erence in words which would suffice in
all cases. Of course the larvae of the species were diflerent in colour
and form.
JULY 22iid, 1915.
Mr. a. E. Gibbs, F.L.S., F.E.S., Vice-president, in the chair.
Dr. Chapman exhibited the first specimen of Latiorijia pyrenaica
that has been bred, the early stages having up to the present been
unknown ; also several captured specimens, to give members
unacquainted with it some idea of the species. Also specimens of
Latiurina orbitidus var. oberthuri, a form found also in Switzerland,
but more characteristic of the Pyrenees, L. orbitulus and L.
pyrenaica are very closely allied but distinct.
Also specimens of A(piade-'< escheri var. rondoid, bred from eggs
obtained at Gavarnie, though these are var. rondoui, i.e., the
Pyrenean form, they are not ab. rondoui, the form to which that
name was first applied. These have smaller and less bold spots
than the Alpine form, finest perhaps in the Tarentaise, but less so
