110
than the ab. rondoui. The males are, however, nice varieties with
discal spots and marginal chevrons.
Also living specimens of Aphidius ervi, Halliday, from the Aphis
of (hwnis arreiisis. It would appear that each species of Aphis has
an Aphidius more or less attached to it only — forming an interesting
field of observation to anyone tired of the more beaten track.
Mr. B. S. Curwen exhibited some first brood females of
Polyommatiis icarus from Pigott's Hole, Eanmore Common, all of
which were much suffused with blue scaling. Two specimens were
of the underside aberration melanotoxa (arcuata).
Dr. Chapman called attention to the fact that a large proportion
of the females of Polyonnnatns icarus in Mr. Curwen's exhibit had
the conspicuous wedge-shaped submarginal blotch of light colour
faithfully reproduced on the upperside.
Mr. A. Sich exhibited coloured drawings, beautifully executed by
himself, of the larvae of the British species of the genus Acronicta,
and referred to the figures of the larva) of Tricena (A.) ])si and
T. tridens, with remarks on the various points of wide difference of
the two species at this stage contrasted with their extreme
similarity in the imaginal stage.
Mr. B. W. Adkin exhibited a large series oi Apaturairis and made
remarks on the species as it occurred in Britain. He stated that he
considered this species showed far greater variation than is
generally supposed, and but for its rarity, would be a far more
variable insect than many of our other species of British butterflies.
Two of the specimens shown approached ab. iole, a male had a
brown costa, and a female with heavily marked brown costa had
much brown suffusion over both fore- and hindwings.
Mr, Gibbs said that A. iris formerly occurred in Hertfordshire,
and that Stephens in his "Illustrations," recorded its presence near
Hertford in July, 1833. It was reported to still linger on in the
county, and Dr. A. H. Foster, of Hitchin, had informed him that
he had seen a specimen in 1899 or 1900, just outside Hitch Wood.
Gamekeepers in some of the large Hertfordshire woods confirmed
Dr. Foster's statement, for they said very positively that they
occasionally saw a large purple butterfly, settling on dead birds,
rats, etc., hanging in their " larders." Mr. Gibbs much hoped to
be able to report some day the capture of iris in a locality so near
to London.
Mr. Turner said that one of the old localities was near East
Grinstead, Sussex, but he had sought for it there in vain, and local
report said that it had disappeared many years before.
