Ill
Mr. Adkin said that the species was common at Chattenden in
the 80's, but had long since disappeared there.
Mr. Sich said that it occurred in Abbot's Wood in the 70's, but
he knew of no recent captures.
Mr. Newman had seen but not captured it in the N. Kent
woods, and remarked that these woods were so little worked that
possibly it still existed in places.
Several members remarked on its increasing scarcity in the New
Forest, where it had been worked persistently for so many years.
Mr. B. W. Adkin said that it was more common across the Welsh
border, as it also was in the Northampton woods.
Mr, Gibbs called attention to the re-exhibit at S. Kensington of
the material illustrating the results of the investigation on the
destruction caused to army biscuits by insects, and said that the
new methods adopted as a consequence of the report of that enquiry
had been eminently successful, the country being saved thousands
of pounds thereby.
Mr. B. W. Adkin said that this year he had found the females
of Ayriades thetis to show a considerable amount of blue scaling and
to have the orange marking on the upperside emphasised. Mr.
Newman said that this was very usual in hot, sunny years, and
noted that the present year had been very sunny for a long period
during late spring and early summer.
Mr. Edwards and Mr. Gibbs noted that the 2nd brood of
Celastrina aryiolus was now well out.
Mr, Newman said that he had captured immigrant females of
both Pyrameis cardui and P. atalanta a month or more ago, and
found them virgin, whereas specimens he had captured a few days
ago paired readily and were now laying their ova,
Mr, Gibbs reported that F. atalanta had been observed by
Mr. Oldham, of St. Albans, on the top of the high mountains
in Carnarvonshire. Also that a larva found there feeding on lichen
had produced Lithosia complanula. It had fed a little on sallow in
confinement.
Mr. Sich said that almost immediately Kuchlo'e cardamines was
over in Surrey this year he had observed P. atalanta.
AUGUST 12th, 1916.
Mr. B. H. Smith exhibited the following species of Lepidoptera
from New Zealand : — Pyrameis yonerilla, the New Zealand repre-
sentative of P. cardui, Argyrophenya antiporum, formerly placed
