112
in the genus Erebia, to which it is closely allied, and several species
of LycanidfB.
Mr. B. S. Williams exhibited a short series of Zijgcena trifolii
var. paliiatris from Somerset, including confluent forms and an
aberration of Xanthorho'e sociata, in which the usual dark fascia on
the left forewing was reduced to a blotch on the inner margin.
Mr. West, of Ashtead, exhibited ova of the Neuropteron,
Chrysopa peiia, laid solitary each on a long stalk.
Mr. Stanley Edwards exhibited a living specimen of a European
Salamander [Salamandra maculata), and contributed the following
note : — " The salamander exhibited was found in a garden at
Blackheath, and an owner was unable to be found for it. It is a
native of the Tyrol, It feeds readily on earthworms and has been
in my possession since November last. It is very fond of its bath.
According to Gadow there are about twenty-five species of
salamander known so far."
Mr. Hy. J. Turner exhibited a short series of Brenthis pales var.
aisilache. The series was a small form of the variety, which he
had found in an extremely restricted locality in the Engadine,
between St. Moritz and Campfer, and which was attracted by the
flowers of the Marsh Cinquefoil [Comarum paliistre), of which he
exhibited a dried specimen.
He also showed a series of forms of Parascmia plantaginis, which
he had casually met with around St. Moritz, Engadine, in 1914,
includmg a normal male and female, a male with increase of
yellow ground on the hindwings, two males with the ground colour
on both wings of an almost pure white, but with the black area
much increased especially on the hindwings, a male with the
markings quite ordinary in position and area, but with the ground
colour on all wings pure white, and a male with yellow ground
colour on all wings and a considerable increase of the black area.
Mr Stanley Edwards read the following Report of the delegates
to the Congress of the South-Eastern Union of Scientific Societies
at Brighton.
The twentieth annual Congress of the Union was held at Brighton
from June 2nd to the 6th, in the Public Library in Church Street,
the intended meeting-place, the Pavilion, being occupied by the
Indian wounded, but the present building with its various galleries
of Art, Anthropological and Zoological specimens, was, I think,
more in keeping with a gathering of the kind. Two excursions
were arranged for Wednesday afternoon, one a visit to the fine
Booth collection of birds, under the guidance of Mr. H. S. Toms,
