115
the open pai'k. We saw our host's museum, where there were
trophies from many lands, as he is a great sportsman. Eventually
the party were brought back to the house, where tea had been
provided on the lawn by Lady Loder. Professor Boulger proposed,
and Mr. Merrifield seconded, a hearty vote of thanks to Sir E.
Loder for his kindness. The other field meeting was a local
Archaeological one, and conducted by Mr. H. S. Toms, to Holling-
bury Camp.
On Friday evening, before a crowded audience, Mr. E. J. Bedford
gave a most interesting lecture on " Sussex Orchids," illustrated
with many lantern slides.
On Saturday morning I attended the Delegates meeting, when
Reading was suggested as a suitable place to hold the Congress in
1917.
At 11.30, Professor G. S. Boulger, F.L.S., gave a most interesting
historical account of " Kew, some notes on its connection with the
History of Botany," with Dr. Scott, F.R.S., in the chair.
In the afternoon Lewes and its churches were visited, and also
the castle, the conductor being Mr. J. S. North.
A Botanical meeting was held at Saddlescombe and Poynings,
conducted by Mr. H. Edmonds, B.Sc.
So ended the Congress, which if on account of the war, was not
so largely attended as some of the previous ones have been, was
second to none in interest.
AUGUST 2eth, 1915.
Mr. A. E. ToNGE, F.E.S., Vice-president, in the chair.
Mr. Hugh Main exhibited leaves of the sycamore showing the
circular holes made by the larvae of the sawfly, Phi/llotoma aceris,
when constructing its case for pupation. In two of the leaves the
discs were not yet detached. He also showed leaves of the alder in
which another species of Phtjllotoma fed. In this case he pointed
out that the species did not detach a disc containing its pupal
chamber, but the whole leaf fell.
Mr. Stanley Edwards exhibited a number of butterflies from
South America illustrative of the genera Cybdelis, Cijcloyramyna,
Catonephele {Epicalia) and Mijscelia, most of the species showing
extreme sexual dimorphism. Included were Cybdelis mnasi/lus,
Cyclof/ramvm pandana, Catonephele iiunnlia, 0. acontius, E/jicalia
chromis, E. ni/ctimiis, E. salambria and Myscelia orsis.
