116
Mr. Newman exhibited a " blue " captured by him in Kent on
July 4th, which he considered from its colour and markings to be a
hybrid between A<jriades con'don and A. adonis. Dr. Chapman said
that it appeared to resemble a specimen he had obtained from the
" Tutt " collection, and which on examination microscopically he
found to be the hybrid known as polunns. Mr. Newman also
exhibited two underside aberrations of A. coridon, in one of which
the ground colour was pearly white with large spots, the other was
a form ab. ohsoUta.
Mr. Bunnett exhibited the ova of Chrysopa flava. These were
attached to long stalks, but were assembled in a bunch, not soli-
tary as in the case of the Clirysopa jierla exhibited recently by Mr.
West.
Mr. C. B. Williams exhibited a box containing the Lepidoptera he
had met with in the Italian Val Formazza, leading up from Domo-
dossola to the Tosa Falls (912ft. to 5400ft. above sea level). (See
"Ent. Eecord," vol. xxviii., p. 4.)
Mr. Ashdown exhibited two aberrations of C'occindla bijinnctata ;
one having irregular blotches on each elytron and the other having
a transverse bar and marginal spots. They were from Surrey.
Mr. West exhibited a rare species of Coleoptera, ScjpiinKs arcuatus,
presented to the Society by the Rev. J. T. Perry, formerly a mem-
ber, from Henley-on-Thames. It was a rare species. Mr. C. B.
WilUams suggested that it was the larva of this species he believed
to feed on the Aleijrodes (Aleiirodes) sp. which was found on ivy.
Mr. Sperring exhibited some extremely dark aberrations of Boar-
mia (jemmaria [rhomhoidaria) which he had bred from ova. The
larvae were hibernated in a sleeve on privet. The parent was taken
at Daren th, Kent.
Mr. Tonge exhibited examples of Zyriaena tilipendtihe, the con-
fluent form, from Reigate, and asked if this aberration had been
met with elsewhere. Several members, in spite of breeding large
numbers, had not obtained this form.
Mr. B. S. Williams, on behalf of Mr. E. Wanhill, exhibited a
curious example of Gonepteryx rhamni, bred from a North Kent
larva. It was predominantly a male, in which the forewnngs were
streaked with female coloration. He also showed melanic examples
of llibernia defoUaria from Epping Forest, and two very pale almost
aibinistic forms of the same species.
Mr. Bowman exhibited a long series of Hibernia defoUaria taken
in Epping Forest in 1914. Included were a dozen decided melanic
specimens, nine of which had smoky hindwings, while the other
