117
three were somewhat paler. A few specimens were very light in
ground colour, and a few others fairly dark. The bulk of the series
were mostly dark banded with a light ground. Two of the melanic
specimens had a deep yellow marginal area, all the rest of the
melanic specimens had dark fringes on the outer margin. One of
the examples had an irregularly widened submarginal band which
angled out nearly to the margin. A considerable proportion of the
specimens had a portion of the light central area white, while one
example had almost the whole of this area white. In one specimen
the sub-basal transverse band was extended to the base. Several
examples had the transverse light band of two distinct shades of
colour longitudinally. There were only three of the form with the
almost uniform orange mottling. There were several specimens in
which the two dark transverse bands approach one another very
closely near the inner margin. Mr. Bowman said that during the
nine previous years he had only obtained two melanic forms in the
same locality, while in 1914 he alone had taken the twelve examples
exhibited, while other entomologists also had obtained the form.
SEPTEMBER 9th, 1915.
Mr. A. E. GiBBS, F.L.S., Vice- president, in the chair.
Mr. Sano exhibited living larvae, pupae, and imagines of the
Longicorn Coleopteron, Rhaijium inquisitor.
Mr. Leeds exhibited a number of underside aberrations of A(jriades
coridon mainly from Royston, Herts, including some with very dark
ground colour, asymmetrical, and nearly obsolete forms. He also
showed A. coridon ab. syiujra/iha with very dark borders, ab.
seniisynipapha, and numerous female Puhjommatns icarus with much
blue suffusion. It was the observation of several members who had
visited Royston, Herts, this season, that the females of coridon were
not in the great majority over the males as they had been reported
to be in previous years.
Mr. H. Moore exhibited imagines of the pi/lades group of the genus
Papilio and read the following note : —
" The piilades group is composed of but a few species having
fairly well-defined Inuits of distribution south of the Sahara.
P. pylades is found from West-North Tropical Africa to the White
Nile, and southwards to the most northerly part of the Congo
State. F. anyolanus (Goeze) from the Congo southwards to the
coast of Natal. P. morania (Angus) from the south-east coast
