118
of Natal to Delagoa Bay. P. endochus (Bsd.) is confined to
Mr. West (Greenwich) exhibited the rare Coleopteron, Athous
rhombeiis, taken at the Field Meeting at Ascot on July 3rd by
Mr. Carr.
Mr. B. S. Williams exhibited an aberration of Ei(pithecia
siibnotata, in which the usual mottled markings were for the most
part absent, the submarginal area of the forewings being marked
by a series of quadrate light spots. He also reported a conflict
between a robin and a Catocala nupta ; the latter finally escaping.
Mr. R. Adkin reported having seen Colias ediisa near Eastbourne,
and Mr. Leeds reported var. helice from Hertfordshire.
SEPTEMBER lUh, 1915.
P'lELD Meeting in the Claygate and Oxshott Woods.
Leader.— Ry. J. Turner, F.E.S.
It was thought that a larva-hunting field meeting might be held
in this generally good locality with some profit to those taking part.
Apparently this was not so, as only one record waa sent in, and
personally, but few items were noted, while the nine members who
succeeded in finally gaining the tea-house had met with but little
luck. The number nine is somewhat misleading, for taking into
account those members who got lost in the maze of woods, those
who attended the meeting and did not go to the tea, those who did
not know that there was a meeting and were present a part of the
time, together with those who sent in their names and cried off, we
should have scored at least twenty.
Mr. Ashdown records finding no less than nine species of
Coccinellid(e by beating the fir trees, while by sweeping he got
nothing but a few Hemiptera, the only capture of note in this order
being PilojJtoriis cinnamojtterus.
[Subsequently to the reading of the Report the following species
were reported as being taken in the larval stage: — hhipitJiecia
coronata, K.lariciata, E. albipitnctata, E.centaureata, E.absijnthiata,
E. assiviilata, E. vulgata, E. saccenturiata , E. exiguata, Arctia ro/a,
Heniithea strigata, Cabera ])iisaria, Euchoeca ohliterata, etc.] .
SEPTEMBER 23rd, 1915.
Mr. A. E. GiBBS, F.L.S., F.E.S. , Vice-president, in the chair.
An evening for the Exhibition of Lantern-slides.
