119
Mr. Rowan exhibited a long series of slides illustrating the habits
of birds, many of them taken under difficult circumstances, and only
after great patience. The series included sets of the Common Owl,
Common Tern, Little Tern, Wild Duck, Bullfinch, Robin, Song
Thrush, Moorhen, Dotteril, Lapwing and Turkey.
Mr. Tonge exhibited slides of the resting attitudes of the imagines
of Urapteri/x saiiihncariti, Ereiiiobia ochroleiica on a flowerhead,
Dicranitra viniila on a tree-trunk, Pyrameis cardiii on a flower, and
ova of Cidaria corylata.
Mr. Colthrup exhibited the attitudes of the living larvfe of
Zyija-na liippocrepidis, Angerona prunaria, Dicranura vinula, and the
resting positions of Brenthis enphrosyne, Epinephele tithonus, E.
jurtina J , Gonepteryx rhanmi, RuDiicia phUms, Melauaryia yalathea,
with a group of Polyoinmatus Icarus settled for the night.
Mr. Hugh Main exhibited a series of coloured slides of botanical
and entomological subjects, including slides of Orchids with Cypn-
fedium, Alpine Plants, Narcissus with the narcissus-fly, a Dragon-
fly, Water-plants, a sunset scene in Epping Forest, etc.
Mr. Tonge exhibited a long series of Boarmia repandata and var.
conversario, reared by him from ova laid by a female var. couversaria
taken at Holt, Norfolk, on June 20th, 1914. The result was a most
abnormal one being 5 s repandata form = 29, 3' s repandata form =
1; 2 s converaaria iovm — d9, g' s conversaria iorm^^O. Mr. Tonge
also exhibited a series of Nunieria pulveraria reared from ova laid by
a female taken at Abbot's Wood, in May, 1918, in which the varia-
tion was practically nil. The result showed of 3 s = 24, ? s = 27.
Mr. B. S. Williams exhibited a specimen of Crocallis elhujuaria,
captured at Finchley in August, in which the yellow ground colour
was heavily dotted with dark brown, while the central band was
much darker with a sharp pale line separating it from the ground
colour.
Mr. West, of Ashtead, exhibited a specimen of the Fairy Shrimp
Branchippns diaphanus, a freshwater Crustacean, taken in a deep
cart rut where water had collected, during the Society's Field meet-
ing at Claygate, on September 11th.
Mr. Morford exhibited the case of the Psychid, I'achythelia villo-
sella from the New Forest.
Mr. Buckstone exhibited a small bred series of Lithoaia deplana
from Mickleham. One ? specimen had all four wings dark smoky
colour, the costal margins and fringes being rich yellow^
Mr. Priske exhibited the large Dipterous galls in the stems of
thistles caused by Urojdiora eardiii.
