120
Mr. Leeds exhibited a number of specimens of " blues " that he
had taken this season, mostly in Herts ; they included aberrations
of Agriades coridon from Royston, males with perfect rings on the
hind margins of the hindwings, forms of the female with khaki
streaks, underside aberrations, and a specimen of Epineplielejurtina
with additional spots on both upper and underside forewings. He
also showed an example of A. coridon ab. semhywjrapha from Kent.
OCTOBER Uth, 1915.
Mr. A. E. ToNGE, F.E.S., Vice-preddent, in the chair.
M. Sano, a Belgian entomologist, exhibited a large number of
lantern-slides illustrative of the life-history of Geotnipes stercorarius,
and contributed a series of notes on the exhibits. He also exhibited
lantern-slides which had been made by Mr. Main who had col-
laborated with him. (See page 25.)
Mr. Priske exhibited the seven British species of the genus
Geotrtipes, and called attention to a coppery coloured aberration of
G. stercorarius.
Mr. Main exhibited some cages which he had in use to watch the
method of cell-making by these beetles, and contributed the
following " Note to M. Constant Sano's paper on the Dor Beetle,"
" The Society is indebted to M. Sano for the interesting paper
which he has allowed us to publish,
"I wish to record my thanks to him for introducing me to such
an interesting insect, and for his kindness in going to much trouble
to secure for me a number of specimens from which I was able to
make the accompanying photographs.
" During the War our Society offered its hospitality to members
of the Natural History Societies of our Allies, and we were able to
welcome M. Constant Sano, of Antwerp, as a frequent visitor and
exhibitor.
"M, Sano's observations correct a number of errors commonly
repeated in our books on Coleoptera. Nearly every writer I have
referred to on the subject of the insect under consideration
introduces or copies numerous errors.
"One well-known popular author, in addition to errors in his few
remarks on its life-history, says the Dor Beetle is " the Shard-borne
beetle of Gray's well-known Elegy." What the poet really
says is : —
" . , . . the Beetle wheels his droning flight,"
