121
" It is Shakespeare who says : —
"Ere to black Hecate's summons,
The shard-born beetle with his drowsy hums
Hath rung night's yawning peal."
" Both references are generally considered to refer to the insect
in question."
Mr. L. W. Newman exhibited a very long and varied series
of Aplecta nebulosa and its varieties ab. robsoni, ab. thompsoni, and
intermediate forms, A pairing was obtained in 1914 from male
and female, both of the robsoni form ; about 400 ova were laid, of
which over 350 were successfully reared to the imago, and the
percentages are as follows : —
Robsoni (mcluding intermediate) 50 %, typical specimens 26 %,
thoinpsoni 24 %.
He also showed a series of Boarmia rejiandata var. convermria,
from a pairing obtained between a typical light Hunts $ crossed
with conversaria <? . A large percentage of the brood were reared,
and that every specimen produced was var. conversaria, and every
one a $ , is a most remarkable result.
Mr. Newman recorded the following interesting breeding
experience that had occurred to him with Abra.ms yrossnlariata of
the race containing ab. varleijata.
" In 1908 I thought I had lost this strain, but I continued to
inbreed from typical specimens from the same race that in 1907
produced the var., and this year I bred 10 % varlei/ata, so that the
var. has remained dormant in the stram five years, during which
period nothing but typical forms were produced."
Mr. Kaye, in reference to Mr. Newman's exhibit, quoted the
opinion of the late J. W. Tutt that not all melanic forms are new,
but were ancient forms which for years had ceased to be dominant,
but which were liable to reappear in favourable circumstances.
Mr. P. A. Buxton communicated the following record sent from
the Dardanelles by his brother, Mr. D. A. J. Buxton.
" I saw a big hawk moth one evening lately, and was going to
pursue it with my helmet, when a young butcher-bird swooped
down and flew off with it to a tree across a field. I followed,
hoping to find the wings at least, and there he was pecking away
and enjoying himself. As he shewed no intention of dropping it,
but rather of flying off elsewhere, I threw a stone at him and he
disappeared, but he took his dinner with him. It was a spurge or
striped hawk, or similar species."
Mr. Main, in referring to Mr. Buxton's communication, said
