122
that he had allowed an Amorpha popnli to escape in the twilight
one evening, when it was immediately chased by a starling from
the roof and caught on the wing. Mr. Buxton said that some time
ago Dr. Cockayne had set free a very large number of this species
and had thereby attracted all the sparrows of the neighbourhood.
It must be noted that A. popnli is not a strong flier.
Mr. Morford exhibited a number of specimens of Setina irrorella,
S. aurita, and its var. ramosa, sent to him by Professor Morel
from N. Italy.
Mr. Ashby exhibited a long series of the rare Buprestid beetle,
Agriltts viridis, which he had met with in some numbers in the
New Forest. He pointed out the sexual dimorphism in colour, the
^ being green on the under surface of the abdomen and the
? coppery. He said that he found it of no use to beat for the
species, the females were taken flj'ing low.
Mr. Robert Adkin exhibited specimens of Zi/t/icna JilipendidcB,
reared in July last from pupse collected in a field at the top of the
Downs near Otford, Kent, on the occasion of the Society's field
meeting. One of the specimens had only five spots on the upper-
side of the forewings, the usual outer sixth spot being absent, but
on the underside the position of the missing sixth spot was
indicated by a dull red blotch. The black margins of the hindwings
were somewhat broader than is usual in Z. fiiipendula, in this
respect resembling Z. trifolii, but the fact of the pupae being found
high up on a grass stem, and the presence of the sixth red blotch
on the underside showed that it could not be the latter species.
Mr. Newman recorded that a correspondent of his near Brighton
had bred some thousands of Z. fxUpendtdir, and amongst them were
between twenty and thirty of this five-spotted form, while a large
number had the sixth spot only very faintly marked.
OCTOBER 28th, 1915.
Mr. R. Adkin, F.E.S., in the chair.
Mr. W. J. Lucas read a paper on " British Cockroaches," and
exhibited a large number of lantern slides illustrative of his subject.
(See page 29.)
In the subsequent remarks Mr. Edwards noted that he had
observed at Blackheath that Blattella gemianica was gradually turn-
ing out the formerly abundant species lUatta oricntaiis, and Mr. P.
