Ocneria dispar in Britain.
By Robert Adkin, F.E.S. — Ju'dd Febriianj lOtli, 1916.
Pi'obably the occurrence of Ocneria dixpar in this country and its
subsequent more or less complete disappearance, have given rise to
more controversy than similar phenomena in regard to any other
species that we are pleased to call British. I suppose that the
present day lepidopterist, if he troubles his head about the matter
at all, is content to assume that the species was common in " the
fens " up to about the middle of the last century, when it, like
another fen loving species and namesake, Chri/sophauKs dispar,
suddenly disappeared. So far so good, but is that all?
So far as 1 have been able to trace, our oldest writers were not
acquainted with the species. Moufet's " Insectorum Theatrum,"
1634 ; Ray's " Historia Insectorum," 1710 ; and Petiver's " Opera
Historiam Naturalem Spectantia," 1764, are all difficult to follow,
but so far as I have been able to follow them, no mention of any
species that will pass for (). dispar is included in them, neither does
Stephens in his Catalogue refer to any of these authors under this
species. I ought perhaps to say that llaworth in his " Lepidoptera
Britannica," among a long list of references to various authors,
chiefly coutmental, quotes Albin's " Natural History of English
Insects," 1720, plate 93. Fortunately Albin, on practically all his
plates, figured both larva and imago. On plate 93 is depicted an
undoubted Geometrid larva and an equally unmistakable Geometrid
imago, which he tells us the larva produced ; these figures cannot
therefore be intended for (J. dispar — no names are given throughout
the work — nor is there any figure on any of his " One hundred
plates" that can be taken to represent that insect; neither does
Moses Harris, who by the way does give English names to all his
insects and Latin names also to many of them, make any mention
of the " Gipsy Moth " in the " Aurelian " published in 1766. All
these old writers appear to have been ardent collectors, and I think
we may fairly assume that they had not recognised O. dispar as a
British species.
The first mention I find of the species is in Benjamin Wilkes'
"Natural History of the Moths and Butterflies," published in 1778,
I believe, so far as regards letterpress, but the plates appear to have
been published somewhat earlier ; at any rate he figures the insect
in all its stages and tells us that a Mr. Peter CoUinson received a
nest of eggs from Germany, gave them to one Charles Lockyer, Esq.,
