who bred moths from them and " turned numbers of them wild
about Ealing, near Brentford, in Middlesex," where they were to be
found but not anywhere else that he had heard of. In passing I
may mention that Wilkes refers copiously to the older authors, often
quoting among many others the three that I have already mentioned,
but he does not refer to thein in regard to 0. dispar, which I think
may be taken as further evidence that it was not known as British
in their day.
In this connection an entry in an old diary, for a note of which I
am indebted to Mr. Frohawk, is of interest. The diary was written
by a William Jones, of Chelsea, and is in the possession of Dr. F.
Dawtry Drewitt, of Kensington, and in it there is this entry " 15
July, 1764, Bred 3 female Gipsy Moths and 1 male." Dr. Drewitt
has also very kindly furnished the following information. " In the
diary of the ' Society of the Entomologists of London,' of which
Wra. Jones was the moving spirit, and who recorded butterflies and
moths captured or bred between May, 1780, and August, 1782, there
is no mention of the Gipsy Moth. In Jones' own list of 130 moths,
with dates of their appearance, etc., it is not mentioned, but in his
later list of 310 moths the Gipsy is included on the authority of
Harris. Among the insects in the Jones' cabinet there is no
specimen of 0. dinijar with an eighteenth century pin, as there is of
Fsilura vwnacha and others near it." The inference, therefore,
appears to be that Jones' specimens, like those mentioned by Wilkes,
were bred from continental ova, had they been of British origin he
would surely have mentioned them in some of the numerous lists
that he compiled, and have kept the specimens in his collection.
Well, Wilkes having set the ball rolling, others were eager to
take it up, and so Moses Harris, in " The English Lepidoptera or
the Aunlian's Pocket Companion," 1775, a tabulated list of names,
times of appearance, etc., gives the "Gipsy" and adds Linnaeus's
name " Dis/iar." Berkenhout, " A Synopsis of the Natural History
of Great Britain and Ireland," 1795, mentions it as frequent about
Ealing, in Middlesex ; and Donovan, " The Natural History of
British Insects," 1790, says that it cannot have been "uncommonly
scarce about fifteen years ago," as almost every collector has a
specimen in his collection, but they majj^ have been bred from ova,
and that Harris did so breed it in 1775, but that it never was
"frequent about Ealing" ; and that being unable to obtain British
examples to figure he had to rely upon German, " which exactly
agree with those found in England." Haworth, " Lepidoptera
Britannica," 1803, mentions disiiar as " with us very rare."
This appears to close the first phase in its British history, for
nothing se< ms to have been heard of it for some years subsequently.
Whether Wilkes's circumstantial account of its artificial introduc-
tion in the neighbourhood of Ealing be correct or not, the collectors
of about 1773 and the few following years appear to have obtained
specimens which they accepted as British, but those of a few years
