later were unable to find the species in that neighbourhood ; if the
species ever did breed there it had disappeared, the chroniclers
of the later years of that century apparently having founded their
assertions not on their own observations, but on the records of
those of the seventeen-seventies.
At just what date it was rediscovered is open to some doubt, but I
am inclined to think it must have been somewhere about 1820, and
what appears to be the first record we have of it is by John Curtis,
who, writing of the species, says : " It is not easy to conceive the
delight I experienced when a boy on finding the locality of the
Gipsy moth ; after a long walk I arrived at the extensive marshes of
Horning, in Norfolk, having no other guide to the spot than the
Myrica f/ale, and on finding the beds of that shrub, which grows
freely there, the gaily coloured caterpillars first caught my sight ;
they were in every stage of growth, some of them being as large as
a swan's quill ; I also soon discovered the moths, which are so
totally different in colours as to make a tyro doubt their being
legitimate partners ; the large loose cocoons were likewise very
visible, and on diligent search I also found bundles of eggs." I
have quoted Curtis soiuewhat fully as his account of his findmg the
species gives a better idea of its abundance than would be conveyed
by any words of ray own.
In or about the year 1830 the Rev. Jenkins found the moth very
plentifully in the fens about Whittlesea Mere, but Henry Doubleday
was unable to find it there in 1836, he, however, found the larvae
swarming at Yaxley Fen in 1839, and it was still common there in
1846. In 1845 Frederick Bond found it abundantly at Holuie and
Ramsey Fens, and at about the same time the Rev. Jenyns met
with it at Burwell Fen. These are the latest definite records of
which I am aware and it appears to be fairly certain that it dis-
appeared entirely from the fen lands about 1850, and thus closes
the second phase in its British history. But it will be noted that
in those days it was distributed abundantly over a wide district, far
more so than one would imagine could be the case as a result of any
artificial introduction.
For some years after this period O. ilispar appears to have been
absent as a wild species, but numbers were being bred in confine-
ment, and are so even to the present day, in the fond belief that
they are the descendants of those old "fen" insects, a belief in which
to say the least of it, there is reason for very considerable doubt.
It is also a point for consideration whether the large numbers that
are known to have been reared artificially, have or have not any
bearing upon the records of wild captures that have been from time
to time recorded of more recent years, of which the following may
serve as examples. In 1870 our late member, Major Ficklin,
captured a female at rest on a tree trunk in the New Forest ; and a
Mr. W. Holland, a male flying in a wood near Odiham, Hants. In
1872, Dr. F. D. Wheeler found the larvje on hawthorn at Monks
