Wood, Hants ; the Rev. G. H. Raynor, one at Cherrv-Hinton,
Cambs., in 1875 ; and in 1885 a few more were recorded as having
been taken on hawthorn, in Warwickshire. Mr. J. F. Green
records that on the night of August 3rd, 1899, a male flew to light
in a bed-room in a house that he had at Sandgate ; and Mr. S. G.
Hills, that he reared a fine male from a larva inadvertantly brought
in on some hawthorn gathered in the Warren at Folkestone, in the
same year. Mr. B. W. Adkin has a series received from a corres-
pondent at Malvern, Worcestershire, who says he bred them from
wild larva? taken on the hedges of the neighbourhood in 1907, but
that he has not come across any larvn? since then.
But the most interesting and circumstantial account of any recent
captures is that given me by Mr. H. A. Leeds, who informs me that
one evening early in August, 1907, when collecting in Huntingdon-
shire, he noticed, while it was still daylight, a female (h disjiar
clinging to a twig of a blackthorn hedge. The moth was boxed
and on the box being examined on the following morning it was
found that a number of ova had been deposited, from which a
small brood was ultimately reared. He further informs me that
in previous years he had taken some three or four male imagines in
the same locality. The lane where these moths wore taken is some
four miles or so from the celebrated " Monk's Wood," and is
bordered on the one hand by old timbered wood-lands and on the
other by hedges dividing it from rough fields and pasture lands, and
although the district cannot be said to be in the fens it is only about
a mile from them and on a somewhat higher level, but it is not
infrequently under water, especially in winter. The older records
of the species pretty generally give fen-country as its habitat, and
from the description of Mr. Leed's locality one would imagine that
it might be a likely one to find it in, but unfortunately he has only
once since 1907 been able to make a further and then unsuccessful
search.
Then there is the female that I found at rest on the trunk of an
elm tree at Eastbourne, on the 30th August, 1909. It w^as an
unusually large specimen, and although in fairly good condition
externally and apparently full of eggs, it seemed to be so utterly
worn out that my most careful attentions for several days failed to
induce it to part with them.
On the continent of Europe (K dispar is pretty generally
distributed and is, as a rule, a common species. In America, where
it was accidently introduced, it has become disastrously abundant
in many districts ; in fact its geographical range extends over
practically the whole of the Pahearctic region, and the species appears
to have the power of becoming locally very abundant, tor, it ixiay be,
a short or more extended period without, so far as we know, any
particular reason, but no doubt in response to some special conditions
that are beyond our present knowledge. So far as concerns
Britain, the question whether this or that particular specimen or
