group of specimens that we may have in our collections are genuine
natives or not, unless they show some marked peculiarity, is matter
of little scientific importance; the point that is of importance is, are
we right in including Great Britain as within the natural geo-
graphical range of the species '?
In a very serviceable little book published in 1896, on the cover
of which we find the legend " The Common Moths of England,"
but which is probably better known to you by its title page
inscription " British Moths," by J. W. Tutt, F.E.S., we read at
page 87 " The Gipsy Moth {Ocneria dhpar). — This species has no
place whatever in our indigenous British fauna." Is this really so?
So long as I can remember, and I doubt not for many years before
I was born, Ocneria dispar, as a British insect, has been looked
upon with a certain amount of suspicion. Probably this was
engendered by Wilkes' circumstantial account of its attempted
introduction by artificial means, but according to his own showing
the attempt failed within a very short space of time, apparently a
matter of a couple of years or so. It is also well known that many
attempts have been made within recent years to re-establish the
species by turning out large numbers of ova, larvfe and pupa? in
various parts of the country, and it is by no means improbable that
some of the records of recent captures may have resulted from such
attempts, but so far as we know all such attempts have ended in
almost immediate failure. Does it then seem reasonable to suppose
that any artificial introduction would result in the abundance of the
species, that there undoubtedly was, in the fen districts for man}^
years '? Is it not far more probable that the species established
itself there under natural conditions and prospered, until some
untoward circumstance occurred which rendered its further existence
there impossible ? What the particular circumstance that caused
its extinction may have been we know not, but it is significant that
this species and another — Chn/s^np/ianus dispar — -disappeared from
the fen districts, so far as can be gathered from known records,
within a year or two of one another, leaving us to deplore them as
lost, but none the less, British species.
An interesting discussion followed, in the course of which Mr, C.
B. Williams said that in America, where the species was always
more or less common and had at times become a serious fruit-tree
pest, its economy had been carefully studied for many years. It was
noted that at one time a restricted area would be devastated by it
while the surrounding country was comparatively free from its
attacks, and it would then appear in profusion in some other district.
This led to very careful investigation, in the course of which it was
definitely proved that the young larvie were carried on the wind; in
one notable case it was shown that vast numbers of young larvie
were thus transported from one place where they were abundant to
another previously free from them, eleven miles distant across an
