Leach, in 1815, " Edin. Ency.," vol. ix., adopted the genus W//>-
parchia for the whole of the Satyrid species.
Ochsenheimer, in 1816, " Schm. Eur.," vol. iv., adopted liip-
parc/iia for the Satyrids, which he divided into seven sections
without diagnoses, of which section C contains our species and
hi/perantKs, etc.
Dalman, in 1816, "For. sys. Upps. Sver. Fjar.," produced a
systemic arrangement of the butterflies, placing all our Satyrids in
the genus hlrebia, diagnosing it as in the family " Papiliones," the
section and phalanx " Tetrapodes," and division II characterised by
" Alae posteriores areola clausa, nervos radiatim emittente. Larva
nuda, ano bimucronato." A still further subdivision is indicated
for ai'i/eria, iiiaera and tuccfera h\ the character " oculis hirtis,"
hairy eyes.
Original Desckiptiox and Differentiation.
It was in the year 1818 that the genus (Coitus) Paraiiie was
founded by Hiibner, " Verz.," p. 59, and it contained {a)e<ierla and
.rijihia (with meone). The genus (Coitus) THra was at the same time
founded to contain roxi'lana, iiiei/tn-a, maera and ch/tiis.
The former genus, Pararf/e, is described as follows: — The wings
pale spotted above, the forewing marked with one distinct eye-spot,
the hind wing with several indistinct ones.
The latter genus, Dira, is described as follows : — The wings are
spotted orange above, below marked with white wavy lines and
finely ringed eye-spots.
These two genera, Paranje and Diva, were both in Hiibner's
family Mannoratae, described as having both wings eyed and
marbled, but the forewing less so than the hindwing.
This family, Marnioratac, was the fifth family of the Stirps IX,
which Hiibner called Oreades, and to which he referred as equal to
the Genniiati of Linnreus and to the Sati/ri of Fabricins.
This last reference I have, so far, been unable to trace. Latreille,
in 1805, uses this name Satyri for the section of his ^.'i/niphalis,
which contains the species we now are accustomed to call Satyrids.
Thus we see that Hiibner, whose judgment is rarely in error,
considered the two species, which happen to be indigenous in Britain,
as sufficiently distinct to merit a generic separation.
Hiibner placed the species achine {dejanira) in the 7th renus
(Coitus) of the same family, Marmoratae, which he called Kmulia.
With achine were associated hiijierantHn (now separated in the genus
Aphantopm) and andrnuiacha (now partlandia and taken as the type
of Knodia). Achine alone remaining was therefore placed by Moore
in a new genus, i'rebreta.
It must be noted that Hiibner used the genus-name Hijipatchia,
Fab., and the name Mani(da, Schrnk., for quite difl'erent species,
and omitted the genus-name Sati/run, Latr., altogether without
reference, as he also did the name Erebia, Dalm.
