10
The history of the genus Pararge and its species subsequent
TO the "Verz." of Hubner.
In 1819, Latreille, " Eney. Meth.," vol. ix., divided the genus
Satt/rus into sections unnamed, in the fourth of which we find
nuffera, aeijeria, (/alat/iea, senirle, actliiopi^, etc., in fact all our British
Satyrids.
Stephens, in 1827, " 111. Brit. Enfc.," vol. i., p. 53, included the
whole of the 20 British, actual and reputed, species of Sati/ridac in
the coiuprehensive genus Hipparchia, at the same time stating that it
was a " most heterogeneous assemblage." He subdivided the genus
into sections and subsections. In the section with " Eyes pubes-
cent," he placed aet/eria, iiief/era and ntaera. (This last was then
held to be a British species, but very rare.)
In 1828, Curtis, " Brit. Ent.," fol. 205, put the whole of the
British Sati/ridac in the genus Hipparchia, but separated meiiera and
ae(jeria as a section characterised by pubescent eyes.
Meigen, in 1829, " Sys. Bearb. Eur. Schin.," after placing all the
galatlwa species in Melanaipia, adopted Maiiiola, Schrank, for the
remainder of the Satyrids.
Boisduval, in 1829, " Index Meth.," placed the whole of the
Satyrids in the genus Satijri(s.
In 1829, " Icones," Boisduval divided up his tribe Satyrides into
Ari/e, Krehia, ('kinnnhas and .S'«/////(.s. Aeficria and mefjeia are in the
last.
Her rich- Sehaeffer, in 1835, " Nomenclator Ent.," used Hipparchia
for all the European Satyrids.
In 1840, Westwood, " Brit. Butt.," p. 15, placed both ae<]eria and
me.ffera in a genus which he named Lasioiinnata. In thus picking
out mcffera from the genus Dira of Hiibner, Westwood came in as a
first reviser, leaving ro.relana and the exotic species chitioi in the
genus Dira, while viepera became the type of the genus Lasioiinnata.
The following is the description of this genus : —
" This genus is at once distinguished from all the other Hippar-
chiides by having the eyes thickly clothed with hairs, in addition tO'
which the palpi are ver}' slender, moderately clothed to the tip
beneath with long hairs, the terminal joint being very short ; the
wings, especially the posterior pair, are denticulated, and consider-
ably varied, the forewings with one, and the hind ones with five or
six eyes ; the antennje are straight, distinctly annulated with black
and white, and with the clubpyriform ; the mediastinal and median
veins are more or less swollen at the base, the anal one being simple.
The fore legs, although considerably smaller than the intermediate
ones, are yet very conspicuous ; they are of equal length in both
sexes, but those of the males are comparatively slender and more
densely clothed with long slender hairs; the tarsal portion in the
male is simple, but in the female it is broader and articulated with
several short strong spines at the tips of the joints on the underside;.
