12
genus name Hipparchia of 18B5 and put the European Satyrids
into eight genera, of which Paranja is the seventh.
Rambur, in 1858, in his " Cat. Lep. And.," used Parania for the
same species.
Butler, in 1867, " Ann. and Mag. N.H.," (19), p. 161, described
a genus Aviccera for tiwiiera, etc., leaving aet/eria in Lasidunnata,
Westw. At the same time he pointed out that the genus Taiarjeoi
Hub. " possessed the advantage of prioritj-." In this last statement
he is quite correct, and Lasinunnata cannot stand as the genus of
aef/eiia, etc., but must be restricted to mef/era, etc. Thus his genus
Amecera for the last species is redundant and must be used for some
other species. At the same time Butler criticised Westwood's
Lasionnitata as including very widely distinct species, and pointed out
the divergent general characteristics of acucria and weaera as species
of the same genus.
In 1868, Butler, "Cat. Diur. Lep. Saty.," made two genera of
this group of species, puttmg in Pararr/e, aetjeria with tinh and
meoue, xiphia (Fab.), ro.relana, diinene, epimenides, uhvenckii, maackii,
luenetriesii, achine, deidaniia and canthiin, and into his new genus
Amecera (1867), megera with lyasa, adrafsta, paraiiiefiaera, xiphia
(Boisd.), viaera, viaerida, inenara, Khal;ra, riiadarahal, hicra, erers-
vianni and baldira.
Kirby, in 1871, " Syn. Cat.," p. 73, uses the name Sat;/riis for the
species in Paran/e and Diva of Hilb., the fMaioiiniiata and Anwcera
of Butl., including the species aegeria, epimenides, dejanira (ackine),
deidamia, maackii, schrenckii, ro.relana, clij)iie7ie, eversimanni, maera,
maerida, schalna, vienava, maderakal, hiera, megera (tigelius), .rip/iia,
Bdv.
Apropos of the genus name Sati/nis, the remarks of Scudder, 1875,
"Hist. [Sketch of Generic Names," p. 265, may well be referred to
here. Since Latreille, 1805, I.e., used Sati/nis (le Satyre of old
authors) as the name of the species now recognised as }iiaera, and is
also preoccupied in Mammals, and as Satgra in Diptera, " it must
be dropped," being based upon a specific name. As this genus-
name has been used in such a loose way, and for very different
groups by different authors, it woull seem better to avoid the use of
it for the future, as Scudder proposed.
Dale, in 1890, " Hist, of our Brit. Butts.," adopts Hipparchia and
selects subgenera Lasiommata for aegeria and inegera, Hipparchia for
semele, Satgrns ior janira and tithoinis, and Eiioilia (ov hgprraiitus,
omitting Pararge altogether. Apparently this is a random selection
without any historical basis.
British opinion and practice of the last 20 ykaks.
In 1893, Barrett, " Lep. Brit. Is.," vol. i., p. 227, included both
aegeria and megera in Pararge. He diagnosed it, " Antenna? mode-
rately long with a narrow or somewhat spatulate club ; head, palpi
and eyes hairy ; forewings rounded and having the sub-costal and
