13
median nervures dilated near the base ; hindwings slightly elongated,
with faintly scalloped margins. Larvae smooth and elongated, with
two anal points. Pup;e stout, angulated, with two points to the
head ; suspended by the tail."
In 1896, Tutt, " Brit. Butt.," p. 375, etc., included the same two
species. He diagnosed the genus, "Larva, with three subsegments
to first thoracic segment, four to the second and third thoracic, and
six to the abdominal segments. Pupa with two movable abdominal
incisions." (Power of movement in the incisions between the 4-5
and 5-6 abdominal segments.) He laid stress upon the more
generalised characters in both larvae and pupaj of this genus among
the Satyrids.
Meyrick " Hand. Brit. Lep.," (1896) added nothing to the above,
except a table of what he takes to be the philogeny of the Sciti/n'floe
as ii whole, deriving Paran/c and Sati/rux from Epiiiephele, p. 336,
contrary to the indications given by both larva and pupa as pointed
out bv Chapman [1895, " Ent. Rec," vol.vi., p. 101 (Citv of Lond,
Ent. Soc, 1894)] .
Kirby, in 1896, " Hand. Lep.," p. 207, included only aet/eiia as
the British representative of Para /v/t' and placed tueijera in the genus
iScttiftiis with iiiaera.
He added to previous diagnoses of Pararije, " palpi with the ter-
minal joint short" and "wings with the costal nervure inuch
thickened at the base."
Wheeler, in his "Butt, of Switz.," p. 102, etc., 1903, included
rnaera, hieia, iiietiera, aeneria and achine in Paranje. He stated the
distinguishing character of the genus to be " upperside hindwing a
series of eye-spots following outer margin."
Recent opinion on the Continent.
Staudinger, in 1901, in his " Cat.," ed. iii., p. 60, gave specific rank
to .rip/iia, Fab., and )iienaca and added epimemdea, ('painiuoiidas and
sc/irenckii, while omitting thibetaiia, ('piscopalia, pracnsta, iiiajiisvida,
didiietoniHi and ratt'ua, all of which had been described previous to
1901, by Leech or Oberthiir. Possibly he considered them extra-
palaearctic, or was it an iiiiiore-ance of Oberthiir's work.
We now come to what is probably the latest published opinion,
that of Dr. Seitz.
Seitz, in 1908, "Mac. Lep. Pal.," vol. i., p. 133, considered that
the genus Paran/e may well be an inclusive one as the species are
very near each other morphologically and biologically. He included
aegi'ria {.ciphia and .ripliioides), thibctano, episcopalis, praeiista, mxe-
lana, rlii>ie)U', erersinanni {cashmiroisis), iiier/era, hicra, maera {inaentla,
iiienara, slialcra), majii^cula, deidanieia, dutnetonuii, ac/iiiie and catena.
He adds very little to the previously given generic characters, speaks
of the " feebly marked, somewhat flattened club, the entire wings, with
margin undulate on hindwings, sometimes dentate, and sometimes
