1 "
the inflation of the base of the submedian as well as the costal and
median vein."
The three species, epinieiddes, epaDimoiuhis and sc/iroickii, were
placed by Seitz in the genus Lethe.
Notes from the British Museum Collection.
The species tJubetana, Obtr., is placed alone in a genus Tatiuija,
separated from the genus Paiarge (sens, lat.) by the genus Aphyao-
neura, which contains a superficially very dissimilar species, A.
piflinentaiia, of black and white coloration. Thibetana has a facies
very similar to praeusta and episcopalis, and is included in Paranje
by Seitz.
The remaining species are placed in Paranje, which is itself
divided into sub-genera as follows : —
Pararge.
1. Chonala, Moore, includes
masoni, broad, irregular, white band.
epixcopalis, narrow, irregular, white band.
praeiiata, yellow irregular band. All from W. China.
2. <J)vh('ta, Moore, includes almost identical species.
acJdne, from Europe.
catena, but slightly difi'erent from achine, from the Far
East.
S. Lopinija, Moore, contains two species.
dndniiiia {nienetriesii) and var. erebhia, with duller, more
indefinite markings.
ilniiietnniiii. Both from W. China.
4. Paranje, Hb. (.se«.s. str.), includes —
aegeria [riieone) {tircis). A series from Russia are small
with very light comparatively large blotches.
.riphinides, very slight, if any, difference from aeijeria
on the upperside.
xiplda appears to be a very much enlarged, strongly
marked aejen'a.
intdue, very brightly blotched aejeria. The African
iiieone still brighter with larger blotches.
5. Ladoiintiata, Westw., includes —
niigenx. Ail the varieties except tiijelins {paraiiiejaera)
are hardly worth varietal names.
Iiiera. Very uniform from all localities.
inaderakal. Not in Museum, does not look a distinct
species from Seitz' figure.
inacra. var. monotonia and var. adrasta are the dark
and light extremes,
var. sicula. Extreme development of a series
of parallel marginal lines,
var. adrnstoides. Very large bright apical
