19
The glass should be thick, called technically 21 -oz., and two pieces
12x9 inches make a convenient size. The wood required consists
of:—
1 base 9 X 5 X f inches.
2 supports 5x2x^ inches.
2 sides 14ixlfx^ inches.
2 separating pieces VAx^xi inches for sides.
1 separating piece 8x^x| inches for bottom.
■1 supports for glass 12x|x-^ inches.
1 cover 8| x ^ bare x ^ inch.
The two supports are first nailed below the ends of the base, the
sides are then screwed on centrally, perpendicular to the ends of the
base, and the side and bottom distance pieces nailed centrally to the
sides and base respectively. The glass is then put against the
distance pieces on each side and the four supports for the glass put
in with a screw into each through the sides. The supports can be
removed easily for cleaning the glasses and setting up the cage
again after use. The ends of the cover are slotted and thinned so
that they can rest on the top of the side distance pieces, and are
held in position by means of screw eyes inserted into the ends of
the latter ; a half turn of the screw eyes holds the cover on, a very
necessary precaution as the beetles are very strong and active. A
piece of stout wire with the ends bent at right angles and passing
into two small staples driven into the side pieces near their upper
extremities holds these together at the top. A card hung on each
cage serves for recording dates and observations.
Clean sieved soil {e.i/., top spit) is pressed into the cage layer by
layer to within about three inches of the top of the glass. For
Cr. tt^i^hoeiis, however, the sand in which one always finds these
insects should be employed. The soil should be damp but not too
wefc. If in the course of a few months it gets dry it should be
moistened from the top as drought is fatal to the successful develop-
ment of the insects.
A "filling hopper " is a great convenience for putting in the
earth and also the food for the beetles. To make this get two pieces
of tin 4 X 21 inches. Rule a line down the middle of the length of
each, make cuts 1 inch long parallel to and haif-an-inch from each
end and then fold back the upper part of the tin in the same
direction as the strips at about an angle of 45°. One tin on the
top of each glass forms the hopper which can be used for any
number of cages.
In the autumn one finds commonly under the same patch of cow
or horse dung, shafts containing (J. atercorarins and (t. s/iini!^er,a.nd
in certain localities, such as the New Forest, (r. imitator also, while
G. ti/pkoeus may likewise be met with, although it is generally more
associated with rabbits, deer and sheep. Perhaps G. sylraticns may
also be found with the above-mentioned beetles in the same spot. I
