20
have certainly found all these together, except G. ^jriniijer, in the
spring.
There are two other species in the genus, viz., G. vemaliy and
G. pi/ri')iaeufi, but these I have not yet found and therefore can say
nothing about them at present. Of the first mentioned insects the
only one which lays its eggs in autumn is G. spinit/er, and it
continues right on into December, and, as far as I can make out,
the beetles then die ofi" in January. I have found a number of dead
ones in the field then, and certainly one does not come across any
alive again till the following autumn, when the beetles, originating
from the ova laid in the preceding winter, come to maturity.
G. mutator emerges in the autumn, but does not commence egg-
laying till the following spring, and the resulting beetles appear in
the autumn of the same year.
G. steirorariits emerges in the autumn, commences egg-laying in
the following spring, but the resulting beetles only appear in the
autumn of the succeeding j'ear. This was surmised by M. Sano in
his paper, and I find that larvie from ova laid last spring (1916) are
going over the winter nearl}^ full grown and will, therefore, be out
next autumn (1917), while ova of G. imitator deposited at the same
time all produced the beetles last autumn (1916).
Concerning (t. ti/p/ioeKs I am not yet quite clear. Beetles taken
in the autumn of 1915, did not commence to lay till the spring of
1916, and all the resulting larvae appeared to be full grown in
December, but none have yet pupated (January, 1917). According to
Fabre, the beetles should have appeared last autumn, but tempera-
ture may have something to do with the difference in the rate of
development.
G. si/lraticiis has been the most difficult to get to oviposit, and I
have to make further investigations with this species before saying
much about it. It certainly is found abundantly in the autumn,
and again in the spring, at which time it commences egg-laying.
1 have only one larva and that is passing the winter quite small.
It is exceedingly interesting to watch the division of labour
between the male and female beetles when making the cavities and
filling them with food for the larva\ The female is the skilled
worker, the male the labourer-'. It is she who excavates the chamber
at the bottom of the shaft, while he takes the earth up to the sur-
face to get rid of it. As he pushes a small mass up the shaft he
rotates, making a quarter turn each time followed by a vigorous
heave. In the cages, it is necessary to remove the earth brought
up to the surface to prevent accumulation, and when it is seen that
the food-chamber is about ready, some fresh horse-dung is put into
the top of the cage. The male carries down the food and the female
takes it from him at or near the bottom of the shaft, carries it in,
and rams it into the end of the chamber. She is very particular
about the way the various layers of material are added, and goes
through a wonderful series of gymnastic feats in the process of
