REPORT OF THE COUNCIL, 1915.
THE Council of the South Loudon Entomological and Natural
History Society, in presenting the forty-fourth Annual
Keport, is pleased to be able to say that the Society con-
tinues in a satisfactory condition.
During the year just passed 7 new members have been elected, 2
have resigned, 3 have been killed in action, and 1 died.
The Membership at present stands as follows : Hon. Members 3,
Life Members 7, Ordinary Members, 162— total 172.
So far as it has been ascertained, 15 of our Members are, or have
been, in the forces, of whom your Council regret to say 3 have been
killed in action — Messrs. Gotch, Penn-Gaskell, and Morris. Lieut.
H. F. Stoneham has been wounded, but has rejoined his regiment ;
while K. G. Blair has been in hospital, but has now returned to his
duties; Major Fremlin has for many months been engaged in train-
ing officers for the Sanitary Corps ; M. F. Bliss was in Serbia in
the medical service ; Major Cardew is engaged with the business of
Supplies on communications; Capt. K. R. Armstrong, after serving
for a time with the H.A.C. in France, obtained his commission in
the R.A.M.C, served in Gallipoli, and on his return to this country
was given special research work in connection with spotted fever,
and he now has the Brighton division, including Newhaven, Sea-
ford and Eastbourne, under his care; while Dr. E. A. Cockayne is
Temporary Surgeon, R.N.V.R. Of the following your Council have
no further particulars : — H. W. Andrews, P. A. Buxton, C. P.
Emmett, E. B. Haynes, N. D. Riley, N. S. Sennett, and J. S. St.
Aubyn.
The Balance Sheet, duly audited, is printed on pages xiv, xv.
Considering the stress caused by the war, the meetings have been
well attended. At the meeting on April 22nd, there was a Special
Exhibition of Orders other than Lepidoptera ; this continues to be
of great interest to the members. At the Annual Special Exhibi-
tion of Varieties and other objects of interest, held in November,
