21
packing them in. After a small amount of food has been put into
the cavity by the female, Fabre says, speaking of bis G. stprrorariitx,
that the male, at the time of the laying of the egg, retires discreetly
aside, the female deposits the egg and closes the cavity containing
it, and the male then takes up the work of completing the sausage.
I have been unable to confirm this and various other details men-
tioned by Fabre, in the case of any of the species I have had under
observation. In every case I have watched, the female has always
completed the work of sausage making herself. I have indeed seen
a female G. spinifier carry out the whole of the work of shaft-
sinking, excavating, and making two sausages by herself, while the
male was hiding in an adjacent " funk-hole." Fabre contradicts
the statement of the German naturalist, Frisch, quoted by Mulsant,
that the egg of (j. sti'irorariu^ is laid in an earthen cell. That of
G. s/iinif/rr is certainly placed in a cavity surrounded by clay, the
whole lying within some la3'-ers of food material as previously
described by Dr. Chapman in his paper referred to above. A
photograph of one of these cells is seen in Fig. 1, Plate I. As to
the way in which the operation is carried out I have unfortunately
never been able to observe, not being present at the critical time to
see it, but with more leisure at command the whole operation could
be easily inspected in one of the cages. There is a small amount of
clay surrounding the cavity containing the egg of (r. fit>'ieorariiis as
noted by Sano, These points can readily be seen in sausages dug
up in the field, at the right time of year.
At times the male appears to get tired or perhaps lazy and does
not return with a supply of material. The female then calls to him,
using the stridulating apparatus situated on the base of the abdomen
and the posterior coxie. It is quite audible to an observer. If he
still lags she comes up after him and gives him a good dressing
down, clawing him vigorously, and he then once more resumes his
task. I found that G. spiniifer and G. imitator took about 24 hours
to excavate a food chamber and about 48 hours to till it. After a
short rest they would commence another chamber higher up the
shaft, succeeded by a third, fourth, or even a fifth. In the field the
food chambers radiate at the same level from the bottom of the
shaft eight or ten inches below the surface. It is generally safest
to remove the beetles when three or four cells are completed, as they
often start a fresh shaft then which in the confined space may
interfere with the work already completed.
With regard to G. ti/iihoeim, as Fabre has noted, the egg is not
laid in the sausage but at a distance of about half an inch from the
end of it, in the sand. The larva has to burrow its way to its first
meal. This larva has not got the stridnlatory apparatus situated on
the second and third legs that is found in the larviB of the other
epecies. Probably the continental coleopterists are well advised in
placing this insect in a separate genus '/c, Minotaitnis.
There are many details to be recorded about the methods of work,
