24
J. Platt-Barrett was " one of us " and some have known him for
more than forty years. He was Secretary of the Society in its
infancy, from its birth in 1872 until 1876, when he was elected its
President. Removing from London he left the Society, but on his
retirement from his life's work in the Deaf and Dumb School at
Margate, in 1908, he rejoined and has been on the Council. His
subsequent entomological experiences in Sicily and the terrible
incidents of his presence in Messina during the earthquake are
probably well known to you all. Just after Christmas he succumbed
to a heart attack and passed away at the age of 78. His collections
go to Horniman's Museum, Forest Hill.
H. A. Sauze was a most regular attendant who participated in
our meetings for some years and acted as Hon. Librarian for a time,
but owing to his wife's serious ill-health had rarely been present of
late. As to his death I have no particulars.
Of H. W. Martin of Stroud, a country member, I have no details.
" Some we loved
That Time and Fate of all their Vintage prest,
Have drunk their Cup a Round or two before,
And one by one crept silently to Rest."
" Ah ! make the iBost of what we yet may spend.
Before we too into the Dust descend."
For some time after you did me the honour of electing me to
preside over your meetings, I failed to find a subject for an address,
which would be both interesting and instructive, neither too grave
nor too gay, and free from those tedious details, which, although
necessary for the proper presentation of a scientific argument, are
often wearisome in the hearing. A gleam of hope arose at last. I
had put into my hands the proof sheets of the Annual Address read
by the President of the Medical Society of London entitled
"Shakspere and Medecine," an admirable composition. Why could
not I, in a more humble way, choose for my title ?
Shakspere and Insects.
Critics of our great poet never fail in their admiration for his
detailed and accurate knowledge of almost every subject, which
directly or indirectly came under his pen. Whether he used
fact or incident in medicine, the law, scholastic macters, history,
soldiery, the Church, love, royal ways, trade, not only had he the
superficial knowledge of the average well-informed citizen, but he
generally exhibits a knack of assimillating salient technical details
