38
the word " locust " occurs but once, and obviously it has no insect
interpretation.
" Fill thy purse with money," says lago to Roderigo, " the food
that to hina now is as luscious as locusts." — Othello, i., 3.
Naturally one would expect to find the butterfly imaged in many
ways, by one who was so conversant with the character and heart
of man. Yet the references are very few, and appeal but slightly
to the sense of beauty. Achilles reflects as the Grecian lords pass
him with greeting or disdain —
*' What the declined is
He shall as soon read in the eyes of others,
As feel in his own fall ; for men like butterflies,
Show not their mealy wings but in the summer."
Troiliis and Cresdda, iii., 3.
Was it the gloriously coloured wings of the " peacock " butterfly
that were intended in the order of Titania to her fairy attendants
in her passion for Bottom the weaver ? —
" pluck the wings from painted butterflies,
To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes."
Midsummer Niyhfs Dream, iii., 1.
Then there is the whole piece in which the phrase " gilded
butterflies" is embedded, which emphasises the then popular notion,
that those who noticed butterflies were insignificant and trifling
persons.
The old monarch Lear, " fourscore and upwards," when sent to
prison by his unnatural daughter, addresses his younger and
faithful daughter in the simple but pathetic words —
" Come, let's away to prison,
We two alone Avill sing like birds i'the cage ;
When thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down
And ask of thee forgiveness : So we'll live,
And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh
At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues
Talk of court news and we'll talk with them too.
Who loses, and who wins ; who's in and who's out ;
And take upon us the mystery of things.
As if we were God's spies." — Lear, v., 3.
Still the same idea underlies tbe scene when Virgilia, the wife of
Coriolanus, is visited by her friend Valeria, and is asked by her,
" How does your little son '? " she answers —
"0 my troth, I looked upon him o' Wednesday half an hour
