44
Mr. Hy. J. Turner exhibited a series of Salebria semiruhella
{carnella) and contributed the following note.
" At the last meeting Mr. Stallman exhibited this species and
pointed out the form with a white costa to the forewings. In the
short series now exhibited are three forms of aberration — (1) with
white costal streak, (2) with yellow costal streak, (3) with the whole
costal area suffused with very dark scales almost obliterating the
rosy colour of the type. Hiibner named the form with the yellow
costa ab. sangiiinella and Staudinger's short diagnosis is " al. ant.
vitta costali fiava." Stephens says that mnijitinella has the costa
"white or pale." Ragonot described a form with white costa as
ab. ictcrella, which Staudinger shortly diagnosed as " al. ant. flavis,
costa alba, ciliis roseis." This form with white costa might
according to Stephens, come under sant/niiieUa as " pale," while it
does not fully agree with Ragonot's icterella, which has yellow and
not rosy forewings. The other form in the series, in which the
costal area is suffused with very dark scales has not yet received a
name, but has been observed and noted by various authors from
Stephens onwards. The species is extremely local with a wide range
extending from Ireland, across Europe and Asia to Japan, and is
restricted to chalk districts. So local is this species that the late
Mr. C. G. Barrett, who had collected extensively in many parts of
England, Wales, and Ireland, had never taken it himself. I have
taken this species at several places on the southern face of the
North Downs in the day-time in sunshine, when it was disturbed.
It is stated to fly at night."
Mr. W. J. Kaye exhibited the flowering sprays of several hybrid
orchids of his own growing, and contributed the following note.
" The fine Odontoi/lussiim jasper is a tertiary hybrid of harnjanum
and cri.ynim, and exhibits the remarkable phenomenon that it shows
that there has been complete fusion each time and thus the last
form jasiicr exhibits practically ^ crispnni to | harryaniDii, it being
really an octoroon, assuming harri/aiuDJi to be the nigger and crisjntui
the white man. The parentage is as follows : —
harryanum x crispnni
I I
I
harryano-crispum x crispum
I ^i
amabele x crispum
J_ I
I
jasper
