64
British : C. sponsa, C. nupta, C. proinissa, and an aberi-ation
with cream instead of crimson hmdwings.
Continental : C. elocata, C. electa, C. pacta, C. dilecta, C. pnerpera.
C. fraxini.
C. diversa, C. paranympha [fnbninea).
American : C. concumhens, C. cava.
C. similis (aholah) and C. chelidonia.
" I am exhibiting a few species of the conspicuous genus
Catocala, popularly known as the ' red underwings,' although not
all of them are red. In fact, of the genus in its old and widest
sense not only are there species with red underwings, but also
species with blue, yellow, very dark brown, and as aberrations even
white lower wings.
" Three species, as you are no doubt all aware, are indigenous in
Britain, C. nupta (a common species), C. sponsa and C. proiniiisa
(both more local), while a fourth C. fraxini is a doubtful native.
" The characteristic habits of the British species are pretty
generally those of the whole, a love of sweets and the custom to
rest on the bark of trees to which the arrangement and colour of
the markings on the forewings have an extraordinary resemblance.
This resemblance extends even to the larvae of some species, most
of which feed upon forest trees and have the habit of resting
lengthwise on the branches, on which their somewhat flattened
form, their mottled grey and variegated bark-like colour, and
the irregularly carunculated sides with hairs directed downwards,
render them most inconspicuous. I recall to mind that on more
than one occasion I have found the imago sitting on a fence in the
brilliant sunshine, but still admirably protected by its colour and
marking. The brilliant hindwings are always covered when the
moths are at rest.
" Representatives of our three indigenous species are in the box I
exhibit. There is a specimen minus a head of what I take to be an
aberration of C. proinissa. It came from one of the late Mr. Tutt's
duplicate boxes and I think that it must have been under his strong
suspicion, or it would have been in his cabinet.
" Hoffmann in ' Gross-Schmetterlinge Europas,' ed., ii. (1894),
gives the following 22 species as the representatives of the genus
Catocala in Europe: — C. fraxini, L., C. elocata, Esp., C. adultera,
Men., C. nupta, L., C. dilecta, Hb., C. sponsa, L., C. prouiissa, Esp.,
C. conjnncta, Esp., C. lupina, H.S., C. pacta, L., C. optata, God., C.
electa, Bkh., C. pnerpera, Giorna, C. neonyuipha, Esp., C. nymphcBa,
