Esp., C. par any III pha, L., C. hyiiieiuea, L., U. conversa, Esp., C
eutijchea, Tr., C. diversa, Hb.G., C. disjuncta, Hb.G., and C.
nymphafjoga, Esp. Several of these I am exhibiting mainly obtained
from the duplicate boxes of the late J. W. Tutt.
" Staudinger in 1901 in his 'Catalog. Pal. Grs.,' ed., iii., expands
this number into 53 species for the whole of the Palsearctic area,
but exactly agrees as to those which are only found in the European
countries. His nomenclature is the same with the one exception
that for paranyiiipha, of L., he substitutes the na,m.e fiilminea, Scop.,
which has prior claim."
" In volume iii. of Seitz Palfearctic section of ' Gross. Schm.'
(1914), the sectional editor, the late W. Warren, divides the 87 species
he recognises into three genera. In Moniionia he places three
species, including our British C. sponsa; in Catocala (sen. strict.) he
includes 46 species, among which are found the British remaining
representatives C. niipta, C. proinissa and C. fraxini ; in the third,
Ephesia, are 33 somewhat smaller species most of which have yellow
hindwings. .
" Both the genera Mormonia and Ephesia had been founded by
Hiibner many years before, but were seldom used until restituted
by modern research and study.
" The basis of this separation into lesser genera is mainly the
structure of the hind legs. In Moriiwnia and Catocala the hind
tibiae are furnished with spines, while in Ephesia the hind tibi?e have
no spines. To separate Moriiinnia from Catocala, the species in the
former have spines along the whole length of the tibiae, while in the
true Catocala these spines only exist in the space between the two
pairs of tibial spurs. This latter distinction may be found useful
for us to separate any doubtful examples of C. jn-oiniasa and C.
sponsa.
" America however is the great home of the ' red underwing.'
On consulting Dyar's ' Cat. of N. American Lep.' (1902), I find no
less than 104 species in the genus Catocala, but I do not find that
any one species is common to both continents. A perusal of
American entomological magazines shews a considerable number of
entomologists who specialise in these insects alone.
" In N. America the usual way of hunting for Catocalas is to go
through the woodland, gently rattling the leaves with a long
switch and watching closely where the disturbed moth settles. As
they are large in size and do not as a rule go far this is not a
difficult task. The large trees in their known habitats are care-
