fully examined for all doubtful V marks, which usually indicate a
resting moth. In some localities it is said to be possible to capture
more than a dozen species of this genus in one day's ramble. This
must be exciting. I have seen a record from New York State
announcing 39 species in one season's collecting in the writer's
neighbourhood.
" Coming to our latest authority, Hampson, in ' Cat. Lep. Phal.
Brit. Mus., NoctnhUr,' (1913), we find that he includes 199 species
in the list of the whole world and that he adopts two other genera
which have been made from the original Catocala, viz., Euparthenos,
Grote, with one species and Catahaiita, Hulst, with 22 species. A
number of species with blackish brown underwings are included in
the latter genus. Figures (coloured) of many American species can
be seen in Holland's ' Moth Book,' a copy of which is in our
Library.
*' A writer in the ' Ent. News ' (U.S.A.), states that he has found
C. conctiwhens, a species of which I exhibit several specimens, to be
addicted to settling on telegraph posts in numbers, and on one
occasion he took no less than ten specimens from one pole. He
makes the curious observation that when a lot of new poles were
put up beside old ones, the moths never on any occasion were to be
found on the newer lighter coloured poles where they would have
been easily seen. The writer calls this a selective faculty on the
part of the insect, but may it not be that before the more or less
sporadic visits of the entomologist, who was not as keen as the
avian hunters for their meals, all such conspicuously situated
moths had been thoroughly removed by force. In a subsequent
year the same writer found that when the new poles were weather-
worn the moths rested on them as they did on the old original
poles, and were equally protected by their resemblance."
In the discussion which ensued Mr. Frohawk remarked that near
the Zoological Gardens, Eegent's Park, several supposed C. nnpta
were noticed on trunks of trees, and a pin was thrust through the
thorax of what was considered the finest specimen. On examina-
tion it was found to be an example of C. fraxini. He also referred
to an example of C. nnpta captured by the late Mr. Winkley in
1892, in which the usual red colour of the hindwings was replaced
by a very delicate warm brown, while a purplish glow covered the
whole surface of the wings.
Mr. A. E. Gibbs recalled an instance in which C. nnj/ta had
