67
remained all day at rest oa an oak fence skirting a public path
along which people were continually passing.
Dr. Chapman in referring to the flight by day said that a species
he had met with on the uplands of Spain, C. cnnversa, one of the
" yellow " underwings, was accustomed to fly in considerable
numbers in daylight.
Mr. Wolley Dod said that he was only acquainted with about
four species in Alberta and that but few species occurred in
Canada, the Eastern States of America were the great home of the
genus, and specialists had given big prices for many of the rarer
forms.
Several members had met with C. niipta resting in the sun-light.
On behalf of Mr. P. J. Barraud, Mr. Gibbs exhibited several
specimens from Salonika and contributed the following note : —
" Pte. P. J. Barraud, R.A.M.C, has sent me home from Lembet
Camp, Salonika, where the Ambulance to which he is attached is
stationed, a skin of a lizard, which I think I am right in calling
Aijaina stellis, L. At any rate there are only two species of Agama
found in Europe and the other one is confined so far as our
continent is concerned to a limited area in the Caucasus. The
range of this species is S.E. Europe, Asia Minor, Syria, N. Arabia
and Egypt. Pte. Barraud says the lizard is common among the
rocks and there are many smaller green lizards and numbers of
tortoises. Lembet Camp is about 4 miles N. of Salonika and
about 400 ft. above sea level.
" I also exhibit a large centipede sent home by Mr. Barraud from
the same place. I believe it to be the S. European species known
as Seolopendra ohsciira, this of course is not an insect, it belongs to
class Myriopoda, which includes the centipedes and millipedes. In
the Eastern Counties the centipede is called ' Forty-legs,' which is
nearer the truth than its better-known name of centipede, for I
believe our common English species of Scolo]iendra has 21 legs on
each side. The examples I show you have 19 pairs of legs. It is said
by biblical scholars to be the creature spoken of in Leviticus, xi.,
30, as the ' mole ' in the list of ' creeping things that creep upon
the earth, and which are unclean.' "
JUNE 8th, l'J16.
Mr. W. J. Ashdown exhibited male and female specimens of the
Coleopteron Cri/ptocfp/talitH corijU to show the sexual dimorphism.
