They were taken in Surrey. Also a male example of the Dipteron
Ctennphora fiaveolata (?) belonging to the Tipididn', from Surrey.
Mr. H. Main exhibited (1) a small cockroach found among
bananas, the colour of which it closely resembled. It was supposed
to be a species of Panchlora. (2) Male and female of the burying
beetle Necrophorus huwator covered with Acari. At first there were
only a few Acari on each. When a piece of meat was placed in the
box the Acari left the beetles and attached themselves to the meat.
Now they had again settled on the beetles, and since their number
had increased so as to almost completely cover them, the Acari
must have bred while on the meat. It was asked what use the Acari
were to the Coleopteron; Were they simply parasites, or were they
scavangers, or did they use the beetles merely as means of
transport ? And (3) nearly full fed larvae of the " firefly " Luciola
italica bred from ova laid in 1914. He thought that these larvae
would possibly not produce imagines until 1917, thus passing three
winters in their pre-imaginal stages.
Mr. West reported the nest of a Tit in an iron pipe, which was
lying in an oblique position against a fence, and Mr. Piatt Barrett
called attention to the almost complete denudation of the foliage
of the oaks in the London District by the attacks of the larvae of
Tortri.c riridana and other species.
JUNE 22nd, 191(5.
Mr. Stanley Edwards exhibited a specmien of the fungus
Poluporiis suljihureits found on an oak trunk at Dulwich by Mr. C.
W. Colthrup, and read the following note : —
"Plant very polymorphous in its shape, and unequal in size,
composed of a number of mostly imbricated pilei, more or less
grown together, so as to form one mass from which the rounded
and lobed margins of the pilei project in a tiled manner or shoot
out into various excrescences, or even somewhat cylindrical, simple
or divided branches, the whole sometimes attaining two or three
feet in breadth. Colour yellowish, orange, red, or a bright union
of these hues, fading in age, the spores always of a fine sulphur tint
when old, dry and friable, never coriaceous."
Mr. Edwards also exhibited several teeth of a shark, Oduiitaspis
cuspidata, found at Eltham, Kent, in the Woolwich Beds of the
Lower Eocene. This shark was of moderate size, chiefly inhabiting
