69
the Atlantic, but found also in the Mediterranean and the Southern
Pacific.
Dr. Robertson exhibited an abnormally marked larva of the
Geometer Cleora jubata [ijlabraria) from the New Forest. Most of
the usually lighter areas were suffused with the deep black colour so
that the larva seemed almost wholly black.
Mr, Priske exhibited a short series of the very rare British beetle
Cojiria liiiKtn's, and pointed out the sexual dimorphism in the
development of the frontal horn, referring at the same time to the
fact that the smallest males can scarcely be distinguished from
the well developed females.
Dr. Chapman exhibited the larva of the Sawfly, Cinibc.r ni/lcaniui,
a large species that feeds on birch, and stated that the ova were
laid by a virgin female and should all produce males.
Mr. F. B. Carr exhibited a spider he had found lurking for prey
in flowers in the Wye Valley recently, and stated he had met with
the following species in that neighbourhood. Leptoaia sivains,
Chattendenia ic-albiivi, Emujchia octo)iiaciilata, Perinephele lancealis,
Brenthis en/ihrosijue, B. selene, Asthena blomevi, Abra.ras sylvata
(ithnata), Ci/niatophora fiuctnosa, Eulype hastata, etc.
Mr. A. Sich exhibited three specimens of Ariiyresthia brockeella,
Hiib., showing the type form, the aberration am-lvittella, Haworth,
and an intermediate form. He also showed a cocoon of Tortri.v
viridana, L., spun on a blade of grass, picked off a hedge bank at
Kingsbury. The larva adapting its silk to rhe grass had spun a
long narrow cocoon.
Mr. Hy. J. Turner exhibited 15 species of Pi/raiintijia' brought
from Sierra Leone by Mr. Bacot. Most of them were notable as
being species of very extensive geographical distribution. They
were all taken near Freetown. He contributed the following
notes : —
" Knt('iiltria cribrata is found also in S. Africa, India, China, N.
Guinea, etc.
" Zinckenia fascialis occurs in Texas, Jamaica, India, Formosa,
Vladivostok, Bagdad, Abyssinia, Hawai, Australia, Fiji, etc.
" Mciras)iiia venilalis comes from Mashonaland, Seychelles, Khasia
Hills, Sumatra, New Guinea, etc.
" Marasiiiia trajH'zalia occurs in Uganda, Fiji, Singapore, Florida,
S. Paulo, etc.
" Si/ntia)iiia lloridalis comes from Natal, Java, N. Hebrides, N.
India, Formosa, etc.
