70
" '^>/ni/aiiiia ahritptalia comes also from Nyassaland, Fiji, Formosa,
Ceylon, etc.
" Bocchoris insj>e)-salis is met with in the Nilghiris, N. China, Java,
E. Africa, Nyassa, etc.
" Xacoleia indicata comes from N. Guinea, Andamans, Shanghai,
E. Africa, Mexico, Paraguay, Brazil, Guatemala, etc.
" Sijlt'pta balteata occurs in the Balkans, Brussa, Japan, China
(interior), Burmah, Cameroons, Calcutta, etc.
" Sijle/ita (lenujata is also met with in the Cameroons, Transvaal,
Formosa, Calcutta, Vladivostock, Tenasserim, W. China, N.
Guinea, etc.
" Ghjpltodea iiidica is one of the most widely distributed insects of
the world as it occurs in almost all tropical and subtropical areas.
" Giyphodes sinitata is perhaps the least distributed species in the
box. It is mainly an African species. The British Museum has a
specimen said to have come from the Nilghiris in India. It is a
most beautiful species.
" Sanu'odes cancellatus has been met with in Nyassa, India, China,
N. Guinea, etc.
" Martica testnlalis is another species with a wide distribution.
Peru, Brazil, Mexico, Madeira, Calabar, Transvaal, W. China,
Ichang, Singapore, Fiji, Sarawak, N. Guinea, etc.
" Pac/iijzanc/ia ])h(coj)tivalis is still one more well distributed species
coming from the Cameroons, E. Africa, Transvaal, Argentine, W.
Indies, Costa Rica, St. Helena, Singapore, N. Guinea, Pekin, India,
Pitcairn, etc.
"Many other species of this group show extreme geographical
range and one would like to know what this indicates. Is it that
the Pyrales or the Pyraiisthuc section of them are more primitive
Lepidoptera ? or is it that the distribution is the result of
commercial intercommunication ? One is inclined to think that
the latter is a factor in the problem since so many of the
places mentioned are on or near the coast, islands, and areas in
direct communication with the sea. At the same time whore a
species occurs it is generally quite abundant and evidently has
considerable constitutional strength and probably has been estab-
lished for many years."
Mr. West (Greenwich) exhibited the specimens of the rare
Coleopteron Ancintnmyclia abdoiiiinolis presented to the Society's
Cabinet by Mr. G. B. Routledge.
