74
32. Female upperside, very dark ground and slightly bordered.
83. Female, blue markings, almost confined to a few black dots.
34. Female, blue, margin of hindwings suffused with broad'
whitish-blue.
35. Female, hindwings with additional edging of blue on inner-
side.
36. I'emale, blue with large bright marginal markings.
37. Female, blue with small marginal markings.
38. Female, blue, forewings with dark border, hindwings large
black marginal spots.
Mr. H. Main exhibited —
1. Pupa of Geotrupes spiniijer ohta^'med in confinement from ova.
2. A pair of living Copris Innaris from Surrey, where it had-
occurred in some numbers in several places, together with a mass of
cow-dung enclosing an ovum, and a photograph of the vault exca-
cavated by the beetle to contain these egg masses, of which as many
as seven may be found in a single excavation.
3. A larva of the scorpion-fly, Panorpa tjer))ianica, feeding on a
white Dipterous larva.
4. An ichneumon just bred from a disc of the larva of the saw-
fly of the alder, Phyllotoum rai/am. The disc of this larva forms
the pupa-case, but is not detached as with P. aceris.
5. The larva of the saw-fly of the Solomon's Seal, I'hijniatoccra
aterriiiia. The female of this species lays parthenogenetic eggs.
The Rev. F. D. Morice exhibited a British specimen of the wasp
Puli.stes (tallica, taken by Mr. J. H. Harrison, at Wolsingham, Dur-
ham, some distance from the sea-coast. The species was common
all over the continent but extremely rare in Britain, and when found'
generally near some port visited by ships from the continent.
Mr. Priske exhibited shells of the Mollusc, P/n/sa Injpnoniiii, from
Braunton Burrows.
Dr. Chapman exhibited the larva of Tricoptenjx riretata from
Reigate, feeding on the flowers of Com us sanifuinea.
Mr. Hy. J. Turner exhibited —
1. The cocoons of the Micro-lepidopteron Ihirctdatrix ai(riiiiacii-
lella, which much resembled minature cocoons of a Zygaenid. They
were pure white, and the pupa cases were protruding from one end
in some instances where imagines had been produced, in others a
comparatively large round hole in the side of the cocoon showed
where a parasite had emerged.
2. Leaves of birch which had been mined by the larva of a beetle,.
