75
(hcJu'sti's nisei. Each leaf showed a perfectly circular hole at the
end of the mine from which a portion of the leaf had been cut to
form a flat circular case, the pupa being secured between the two
surfaces of the leaf. The case when completed was separated and
fell to the ground.
3. The beautiful open network cocoon of the Micro-lepidopteron,
Chrywcortjs festaliella, an anomalous species which systematists had
placed in various positions in the lists. It was attached to a rose leaf.
4. The curious tubular larval cases of a Tineid formed on dog's
excrement. It had been sent from Aden to the late Dr. Buchanan
White.
Mr. Bunnett exhibited (1) the flowers of a species of Aristolochia.
(2) A spike of the Marsh Orchid, Malaxin palitdnsa, which was pre-
served in a solution of 2^% of formalin. The structure was admir-
ably preserved, although it had been in the solution for the past six
years. (3) Larval cases and living imagines of Coleophora nvjricella
on hawthorn, and added a few details of larval habits, which he
hoped later on to more fully describe.
Mr. F. B. Carr exhibited a pupa of Gnneptery.v rhaunii. Several
members noted that the larvfe of this species had been particularly
common this year.
Mr. E. Adkin communicated the following " Notes on the
Season " : —
" The season at Eastbourne has, so far, been disappointing.
Occasionally a few fine warm days gave promise of things to come,
but hardly had one realised their possibilities when it would turn
wet or cold again, or both. The very wet month of March, as a
matter of fact the wettest March on record, and the bitterly cold
weather of its closing days, seem to have left their mark on the
season, added to which my opportunities for observation have been
few, yet it may not be without interest, on an occasion when we are
invited to give our experiences of the season, to mention briefly
what has come under my notice in this locality.
" Although the latter days of March had been so inclement, the 1st
of April was a very fine day and fairly warm, and 1 met with my
first butterflies of the season, some half dozen or more Ai/laia urticcB
being on the wing in a sheltered corner of the Downs. The 2nd
was even finer, and in my garden I saw several more A. nrticie and
a couple of Celastrina aiyioltis, Avhile a very lively Scxia [Macro-
(llossa stellatariim was seen on the sea front buzzing along the stones
of the parade walls. Then we had more cold weather, but on the
