76
23rd it was sufficiently warm and sunny to bring the I'urthesia
chnjsorrhcca larvae, which were very abundant on some blackthorn
bushes on the Downs, out of their nests in search of food.
" Having a few fine warm days at the end of the mouth white
butterflies began to get common, and on the 30th Pieris rajxF and
P. napi, also C. avf/iolnx, were all flying in the garden in some num-
bers, the last named being quite abundant, and this species con-
tinued on the wing until May 21st, while the ' Whites ' were flying
on fine days right up to July 2nd, when the last was seen, the later
brood does not appear to have yet started with us. I'ortri.v pionii-
hana was flying in the garden on May 28th, and I have no doubt
also on other sunny mornings about that date, when I was not there
to see it. On the same day PoUjommatus icariis favoured us also.
" During June we found that XanthorJio'e [Melanippe) jitictiiata
was just as frequent in our garden here as in the London gardens,
but, so far as we were able to observe, less prone to variation. Odd
specimens of Dicrmiura vinula, Acronicta aceris, Maiiiestra brassic<r,
P^iipithecia viilt/ata, Hepialus luj)uliniis, and such like species were
met with. It was also reported to me that early in the month a
single specimen of Colias ediisa had been seen on the Downs near
Shoreham, Sussex. On July 2nd I watched a specimen of AcjlaU
iiitica: feeding at the Valerian blossom on the parade for several
minutes, its colour was dull, suggesting that it was not freshly
emerged, but in other respects it appeared to be perfect. And on
the 9th a Sesia {Macrotflossa) sitellatarum spent some time around a
large plant of Anchum in the garden, apparently well satisfied with
such nectar as he was able to extract from its blossoms. These two
insects can hardly have been the progeny of the April specimen?,
but if not whence came they ?
" It's raining and blowing hard and horribly cold as I write, so I
can't say much for the season."
Mr. Curwen had spent some days in the New Forest recently, and
subsequently also in Ashdown Forest. He found that imagines were
generally scarce, while larvje were plentiful. From June 15th to
24th he was taking Breutlns nelene in the New Forest in good condi-
tion. On June 27th, at Tilgate, the species was worn to rags, while
on June 29th, at Ashdown, it was quite fresh. Cleora jnhata {ijlab-
raria) and Alencis jiictaria were in some numbers in the larval stage
in the New Forest.
Mr. Hare had found things generally up to date in various
localities.
