77
Mr. Newman remarked that Acpiadcs t/iftis was in thousands in
North Kent, and was a grand sight, the whole hill-sides were
coloured with them. Some twenty-five years ago it was equally
abundant in the same area, but in the intervening period had been
very uncertain in its appearance and had practically disappeared.
The Eev. F. D. Morice had spent a fortnight at Swanage and a
fortnight at Brockenhurst, returning on July 6th. During the
whole time the weather was quite unsuitable for Hymenoptera,
cold and windy at Swanage, incessant rain on several days and
very little sunshine on others in the New Forest. He had taken
one good species at Studland, viz., a male of the very rare
Miscuphiis )iiaritiiiitis, hitherto recorded only from Deal. Liuienitis
sibilla was pretty abundant on one day in the New Forest. A
wounded officer whom Mr. Morice had met had taken seven fine
examples. Several members reported that the larvje of this species
had been very scarce for some time past.
The Rev. F. M. B. Carr communicated the following " Notes on
Collecting in Staffordshire in early July 1916."
" I have had a much better week this week, but the weather has
been pretty awful on the whole. However * It's an ill wind, etc.,'
for although many of the days have been bad, it has helped things
at night as the moon has been hidden. Now the weather seems ta
be improving a bit so of course we are getting the moon at night.
We ' bug-hunters ' are hard to please.
" I went out sugaring when I arrived on Monday. The weather
had been very wet during the day, and there were heavy clouds and
thunder about at night. I had studied the Staffordshire List
before coming, and saw that somebody had taken many Aplecta
tincta at sugar in Burnt Wood, so 1 was hoping to get a few, as it
appeared from the books to be about the right time for it. The
great question was, ' Would sugar be any good ? ' Well to make
a long story short things swarmed at sugar and sure enough there
was A. tincta. I took over 30 that night, and could probably have
taken another 30 if I had wished — gloriously fresh ones too. It is a
lovely thing when fresh. Other species at sugar were Tricmn jisi,
Phaietra niiiiicis (incl*tiding 1 ab. salicis), 2 or 3 Ci/iiiatoj>h(»a
dui)lari>i, Xylophania monofjbjpha (polijodoii), A', riirea, Leacania
comma, Miana strif/ilis, Riisina tenehrosa, Af/rotis e.vdainationis, A.
seijetuiii, A. striynla {porphyrea), 4 Aplecta prasina {herbida), A.
nebidusa, yoctua plecta, N. aiujur, x\. festica, Ajuviiea (jeiiiina,
Manu'stra thalaaaina, M. uleracca, M. trifidii [rlicnoptnlii), 2 .1/. pisi.
