78
TripJuena pronuba, Euplexia liicipara, and Aiinebe riridaria
(pecthiitaria).
" This was an encouraging start ; on some patches there \A'ere
between 20 and 30 moths.
" Tuesday evening was much the same, and I got another" P
riDJiicia ab. salicis and a few more A. prasina. The additional
species were Leucania j'allens, Miana fasciimcitla, Thyatira hatis,
Habrosi/ne derasa, Apamea hasilinea, Noctiia c-nigrnm, N. hrunnea,
Di pterin/ ia scabriuscnla {pinastri), and Metracampa mar<jaritaria.
" Wednesday was a comparative failure owing to cold and moon.
Thursday was impossible owing to downpour most of the day and
all the night.
" Friday turned out the best night so far, after a very wet day.
A friend came over and he was delighted to get Aplecta tincta, as he
had never seen it common before. He took as many as I did
on Monday, or more. A fresh species was Acronicta leporina of
which I took three and my friend two. Two were of the usual
form and three appear to be ab. melanocepliaia which is said to be
taken in the Liverpool district. They are much darker and have a
black thorax. I also took about eight A. prasina and one or two C.
diiplaris. Leucania lithartpjria, Cnspidia megacephala, Bomolocha
fontis (3), Sewiothisa notata (1), and Cidaria corylata were the new
comers — 40 moths on one patch !
" Last night we had the moon again and things were not nearly
so good, I took only one dark A'. mono(jhjpha. The new-comers
were Fhlogophora meticidosa and Ma)iiestra brassicce. The greatest
number on one patch was 20.
" Day work was fair : — Brenthis selene (abundant), Diacrisia san7iio
(russida), Eulype hastata, S. notata, B. fontis, Eucosinia nndidata,
Lygris popidata, Chloroclystis debiliata, Boarmia repandata, Yenusia
camhrica, Pylarye finnata (1), Leptomeris striyilaria, etc.
" Burnt Woods are very extensive and consist chiefly of oak and
birch, carpeted with bilberry and heather. There is also a
■considerable open heath space and a big alder swamp."
July 22nd, 1916.
Field Meeting at Box Hill.
Leader.— Uy. J. Turner, F.E.S.
The meeting was quite a successful one as regards numbers,
