79
although but little collecting seemed to be done. Insects were
generally scarce and reports of captures more so. There were some
twenty-six members and friends present of whom eight formed a
morning party. The slopes, woods and valleys at the" back of Box
Hill proper, were wandered over and some useful things obtained.
The following Lepidoptera were reported by various members. —
Rhopalocera. — Generally very scarce on that portion of the hill
visited. Epinephele jiirtina, Cd'noiiipiijiha pauip/tilus, and Pieris
rap(e.
BosiBYCES, ETC. — A colony of Zi/f/dna nlipenduUe (cocoons) at the
foot of the slope to the main Dorking road produced nothing but
minor aberration ; Lithosia Jeplana.
Geometers. — Ourapteri/x nambucaria, Hydriomena furcata {sordi-
data), Metrocampa mar(jaritaria, Cahera pusaria, Boarmia f/emmaria,
B. abietaria, Ortholitha bipiinctaria, Caniptogramina bilineata,
Pi/larc/e {AcidaUa) arersata, Ptychopoda [Acidalia) trigeminata,
Melanthia procellata, Mesoleuca bicolorata.
DELToms. — Hypena proboscidalis, Zanclognatha tarsi pennalis.
Pyrales. — Ayrotera nemoraUs, Botys niralis, Cledcohia anyustalis,
Ebulea crocealis.
Crambi. — Cranib)(s chrysonuchellns, C. yeniculens, C. pascudlns.
Alucitid^. — Stenoptilia pterodactyla.
ToRTRicES. — Tortrix forsterana, T. xylosteana, Phoxopteryx comp-
tana, Aryyrotoxa conwayana, Batodes angustiorana, Chrosis alcella,
Cydia {Carpocapsa) splendidana, Aplielia osseaJia (pratana.)
Mr. Lucas reported that Orthoptera were numerous and the
following species were noticed : — Chothipjnis parallelus : Stanroderus
bicolor ; Oinocestns virididiis ; Gowjihocerus macidatns ; and Tetrix
bipimctatiis. The only Neuropteron was Hemerobius stigma taken by
Mr. W. F. Ashdown, which he thinks he swept from Yew. On
Mr. Lucas' return Glow-worms were shining at Oxshott Station.
Mr. Lucas has sent the following interesting remarks on the
flowers and plants observed during the day.—
" Wild flowers were numerous and, amongst others, the
following were noticed : — Orchis pgrawidaUs ; Epipactis latifolia,
Broad-leaved Helleborine (nearly out) ; Papaver somnifernm, Opium
poppy (given to me by a visitor) ; Hypericion Itirsiitiuti, Hairy
St. John's Wort ; Malca nwschata, Musk Mallow ; Geranium
prateme, Meadow Cranes-bill ; Aspenda rynanchica, Squinancy-
wort ; Inula conyza, Ploughman's Spikenard (nearly out) ; Mono-
tropa Jiypopitliys, Bird's-nest (under Beech) ; Campanula glomerata,
