80
Clustered Bell-flower ; Spinm filipendula, Drop- wort ; Enjthma
centanrixm, Centaury ; Echiuia vulgare, Viper's Bugloss ; Pastinaca
satira, Parsnip (downy form) ; Verbascum blattaria [ I make it this
and not V. mi/ruin] ; Galenpsis ladanniii, and liupatienn parviflornm
[I make it this species] found by Mr. Turner."
JVLY 21th, 1916.
Mr. Stanley Edwards exhibited the fungus Poly par )i>i snlphureus
found on the occasion of the Field Meeting held at Box Hill on
July 22nd. It was said to be edible and to taste slightly astrin-
gent. Its odour was fragrant, becoming disagreeable. Its habitat
was living trees and stumps of oak, yew, chestnut, willow, cherry,
alder, poplar, walnut, pear, apple, larch, robinia, ash and pine,
from May to October. The pileus was covered with crystals of
binoxalate of potash. In times past it was much used for tinder,
Trte-trunks that are attacked usually rot in the centre leaving
the outside sound. It is sometimes phosphorescent. Ueriomyces
aurantiacus has been stated to be an imperfect state of this species.
Mr. Frohawk exhibited a figure of a unique and extraordinary
form of Melanaryia (jalathea in which there was neither trace nor
suggestion of the black markings usual on either surface, but there
was a slight general suffusion of yellow. The specimen was taken
in July, 1843, in the neighbourhood of Walmer, Kent.
He also showed a specimen of Euchlue cardamines in which all
trace of black coloration even on the underside of the hindwings
was absent, and an example of CoUas hyale in which the intensity
of all the dark and black markings was weakened to a faint dusky
shade.
For some weeks he had been in Norfolk and during almost the
whole time there had been an extreme scarcity of insects and most
of the few he had met with were late in their appearance.
Mr. Hy. J. Turner exhibited a short series of Parnassius apollo
var. valaisica from Macugnaga, South side of the Alps, and ab.
inontana from St. Moritz, the high mountain form. The former
were large in size and more brilliant in coloration, the latter were
small and generally less emphasised in colour and marking.
Mr. Turner also exhibited larval cases of a number of species of
Coleophora, which he had bought with many similar specimens of
numerous genera, mostly Tineid, in a small tobacconist's shop at
