coloiu- blue, paler approaching outer marginal areas, and terminat-
ing in whitish wedge-shaped markings ; forewings without orange
spots, but hindwings largely bordered ; taken in Herts, in June,
1916.
Dr. Chapman exhibited a series of Vespa norefjica, and said, "This
wasp has, so far as I can learn, been not uncommon near Reigate
this summer, these specimens are from a large nest taken ten days
ago. The species is common in the north, but apparently very rare
in S.E. England. During many years collecting at Reigate Mr.
Frisby does not appear to have met with it here, but has once taken
it in Kent. The female specimen has the 3rd and 4th abdominal
segment dorsally fused."
Dr. Chapman also exhibited bred specimens of Sdenia bilmiaria,
and contributed the following note : —
" I had some Selenia hilnnaria which emerged rather early, and
not wanting them as specimens they laid a number of eggs, and
these I reared, rather because other work amongst living insects was
scarce, at any rate they fed up and pupated at a fairly normal rate,
and tolerably together. But in their emergence as imagines they
have been coming out often several a day, now and then more, for
the past two months, and there are still a number in pupa, whose
intention I don't know. The moths that have emerged are some
of the spring and some of the summer form, the difference having
no relation to earlier or later emergences.
" I only recently pinned a few specimens, so that perhaps the
exhibit wants the most characteristic specimens. This mixing of
both forms in the summer brood is, I fancy, very usual, but I did
not know it was associated with such a prolonged emergence."
Mr. Hugh Main exhibited living plants of the rare Bladder-wort,
Vtricularia nenlecta from Epping Forest; the pupa of the tiger-
beetle, Cincindela campestris, produced in one of his small observa-
tion cases ; and a brilliant red fungus, Pcziza sp., from Epping
Forest.
Mr. Hy. J. Turner made the following exhibits : —
1. The life history of Coleophnra iiif/ricella, including numerous
bred specimens, larval cases, both the small curved cases used for
hibernation and the straight more mature cases and leaves of the
hawthorn to show the mines of the larva and the angle of
attachment of the case.
2. The " winter cots " or hybernacula of a species of N.
American Linicnitis. The young larva eats away the willow leaf
