84
on both sides of the midrib for some distance from the apex and
folds the two sides of the remaining portion of the leaf neatly
together, closing the tube at the bottom but leaving it open towards
the apex. In addition to this it secures the petiole of the leaf to a
twig by a band of silk, to prevent its falling to the ground.
S. A number of cocoons of Xepticiila euphorbiella made by larvae
collected by the late H. T. Stainton at Mentone, in March, 1867, in
mined leaves of Kitphorbia dendroides.
4. The three leaves of the cork tree, Quercus fmber, from which
Stainton bred a new species of Neptictda, X. suberis, in 1868. The
larvffi were met with at Mentone in March 1867. The mines are
large blotches on the upperside of the leaf.
5. A number of cocoons of Nepticida catharticella made by larvas
taken in March, 1867, at Mentone, feeding in mines in the leaves of
of lUuDinius alaternns.
6. Three leaves of Quercus suber showing the tortuous mines of
the larvae of Nepticida subericora with the cocoons. The species
was discovered by Stainton at Cannes, on March 9th, 1867.
7. Cocoons and webs of Zelleria }diillyrella among twigs and
flowers of Philhjrea angusti folia, taken by Stainton and Milliere in
March, 1867, at Cannes.
These specimens of Microlepidoptera are all referred to, or
described, in Staniton's " Tineina of Southern Europe," pp. 224-
229, as forming part of his " cabinet of economics."
AUGUST 12th, 1916.
Field Meeting at Eoyston, Herts.
Leader.— A. E. Gibbs, F.L.S., F.Z.S.
This was a whole day meeting somewhat beyond the area
within Avhich the Society usually holds its meetings. The special
object was of course to obtain specimens of the races of Aijriades
coridon for which this locality has recently become so well known.
About a dozen members and their friends were present and all
returned quite satisfied with the day's work. A. coridon was in
countless numbers and aberrations were obtainable, but needed
much patient selection. The forms ab. senii.synfjrai)ha, ab. roysto-
nensis, ab. inaqnalis, etc., of varied degree of emphasis were taken.
It was particularly noted what a large number of pairs in cop. were
