85
observed, especially in the late forenoon. Very bright fresh
examples of Urbkola comma were in number, and Parart/e wegera
with Kpinepliele jurtina were observed.
The party sat down to tea in a pleasant garden at the back of
one of the houses in the town, and an early return to London was
made.
AUGUST 2ith, 1916.
Mr. Stanley Edwards exhibited a Flying-fox, Pteropiis sp., from
Australia, and communicated the following note on the genus: —
" The genus Pteropus has more than 40 species. All are of large
size, and the absence of a tail, the long pointed muzzle, and the
woolly fur covering the neck, render their recognition easy. They
are commonly known as 'Flying Foxes,' or 'Fox-Bats.' One
species from Java measures five feet across the fully-extended wings,
and is thus the largest known species of the order. The range of
this genus extends from Madagascar and the neighbouring islands
through the Seychelles to India, Ceylon, Burma, the Malay Archi-
pelago, S. Japan, New Guinea, Australia and Polynesia (except the
Sandwich IslanJs, Ellice's Group, Gilbert's Group, Tokelau, and
the Low Archipelago). Of the islands inhabited by it some are
very small and remote from any continent, such as Savage Island
in the South Pacific, and Kodriguez in the Indian Ocean. Although
two species inhabit the Comoro Islands, which are scarcely 200
miles from the African coast, not a single species is found in Africa,
but in India, separated by thousands of miles of almost unbroken
ocean, a species exceedingly closely allied to the common Mada-
gascar Fox-Bat is abundant. The Malay Archipelago and Australia
are their headquarters, and in some places they occur in countless
multitudes. Mr. Macgillivray remarks of P. conspicillatns, "On the
wooded side of a hill on Fitzroy Island, I one day fell in with this
bat in prodigious numbers, looking while flying in the bright sun-
shine (so unusual for a nocturnal animal) like a large flock of rooks.
On close approach a strong musky odour became apparent, and a
loud incessant chattering was heard. Many of the branches were
bending under their load of bats, some in a state of inactivity, sus-
pended by their hind claws, others scrambling along among the
boughs, and taking to wing when disturbed."
Mr. Hugh Main exhibited : —
