86
1. Larva, pupa and imago of the water beetle Pelobius tanlns,
dug out of the bank at the margin of a pond in Epping Forest.
2. A Syrphid Fly killed by a fungoid growth, the eyes, centre of
the thorax on dorsum and the wings being curiously bare of the
growth.
3. Ova of Hemerohiua concinnus.
Mr. Curwen exhibited bred series of Cleora Uchenaiia and Cleora
jiibata (<ilahraria) from the New Forest. The larva) of the former
were fed on a lichen of the genus BamaUna and the latter on a
species of Cladonia and neither would eat the other's food. Lettuce
was left untouched even when there was a shortage of food. The
larvte of C.jnhata were unusually plentiful at Denney Wood, New
Forest. Dr. Kobertson and he took 40 in a late afternoon's collect-
ing. He also showed o. Xantliorho'e flnctiiata, entirely asymmetrical
in shape and markings. It was suggested that it might exhibit
gynandromorphic genitalic characters if examined.
Mr. Hy. J. Turner exhibited further details in the life-history of
the following species of Micro-lepidoptera.
1. A leaf of ViburniDii tiniift, lauristinus, picked in the Boboli
Gardens at Florence, on January 3rd, 1869, which produced Litho-
colletis lantanella on April 3rd (" Tin. South. Eur.," p. 286), and a
series of British L. lantanella. It is a local species.
2. A leaf of oak which was curled into a pyramidal shape by the
larva of Gracilaria alchimidla {sirederella), and imagines of the
species. Common.
3. Galleries of the larva of Cfelechia phujitinella {turpellu) from
Katisbon, presumably sent to Stainton by Zeller in November,
1863, and British imagines from Cheshunt. It is a local species.
4. Leaves of Crataijus pi/racantha with mines on the uppersides
of the larvae of LitJiocolletis leiico(/raji/u'lla, a non-British species.
They were found by Stainton at Florence on March 2nd, 1863, but
he was unsuccessful in breeding the imagines. ("Tin. South.
Eur.," p. 207.)
5. The beautiful net work cocoons of Epiblemia {t'lianliudes)
stricteUiiti, sent to Stainton by M. Constant in November, 1886.
6. A number of larval cases of a Culeophora sp. found feeding on
the seeds of <?Jienopodiu)n. maritiinuni by our former member G.
Elisha, and sent by him in November, 1881, to Stainton as C.
salinella. There is a doubt as to the species which is more
probably Coleophora larlpennella, of which I exhibit the life history.
