87
The larva of C. salinella is supposed to be confined to the seeds of
Atriplex po) tidacoidea.
Mr. Turner also exhibited coloured figures of a dozen striking
aberrations of Dryas paphia.
Mr. Frohawk exhibited some most remarkable forms of Arctia
caja bred from larvfe taken by him in the Scilly Islands, including
a practically unique specimen with forewings uniformly chocolate
not even showing a subdued outline of the fainter markings as many
aberrations do. The hindwings of this specimen had nearly the
whole wing suffused with black, but in this case the indications of
the usual round spots were marked by a violet tint seen when the
specimen was held in certain positions. The other specimens
showed these tendencies more or less, particularly in the union of
the dark spots and blotches on the hindwings. One specimen had
conspicuously yellow ground colour on the hindwings.
Mr. WoUey Dod exhibited a specimen of Saturnia pavonia in
which the antennae were intermediate in development between those
of the male and those of the female. The pectinations were con-
siderably developed although the insect was apparently, from wing
markings and body, a female.
Mr. Lachlan Gibb exhibited flower-heads of the common teasle
{DipsacKs sylvestris) and of the fuller's teasle (Z>. fullomiin) and
remarked on the development of the scales of the receptacle into
strong hooks at their extremities. It was remarked that some
authorities considered the latter as a derivative from the former
and not a true species.
Mr. Bunnett exhibited an example of the rare plant Tri folium,
restipinatiwi from Hayes Common, together with several ripe
capsules. He also showed a specimen of the glow-worm {Laiiipyris
noctiliica) with bifurcate tibia of the hind leg.
Mr. Carr exhibited a living specimen of Vlatyptilia (jonodacUjla
taken by him in the heart of the city.
Mr. Frohawk remarked on the occurrence of Amorpha populi and
suggested a second brood. Mr. Turner had also had a fresh speci-
men brought indoors by a cat a few days before.
Mr. H. Moore exhibited a short series of Ayriadea coridon from
Royston, including ab. semisi/iii/rapha and ab. roystouensia, and read
the following note.—
Agriades cokidon. — Gynandromohphs and ab. roystonensis.
" Gynandromorphs : — To describe these blue-scaled females as
