gynandromorphs is to my mind absolutely wrong. They are in all
particulars save adornment true females, presumably fertile and
functionally perfect and positively as capable of pairing as their
normal sisters, that is if any Royston ? can be said to be normal.
" The possession of a secondary ^ character does not alter sex,
though it might indicate decreased fertility in the higher orders,
but here we have nothing to do with age. On August 12th last, I
took a number of paired couples, and found several blue-scaled
females amongst them. In looking over my series I can see no
approach to the male in the shape of the wings, however blue they
may be, but on the contrary, as if to accentuate their sex, the red
lunules on the margins of the hindwings are as a rule con-
spicuously developed and in a variety of unusual ways. In
speaking of gynandromorphs we are dealing with forms not
TRIMMINGS, and these blue females are no more such, than those
hirsute ladies whose faces have not a truly feminine appearance
though their features may be perfect.
" It ought not to be difficult to find or coin a word of truer
descriptive application to these masculine females of cnridon or any
besides.
" Ab. roystonensis : — The enthusiasm of Mr. Pickett over the
Royston forms of A. coridon, is probably shared by all who have
collected there, but he is really very unfortunate in wishing to
confer the name of roystonensis on what is nothing more than a set
of cripples. These misshapen specimens, like others to be found
all over the world, appear to me to be the victims of a disease that
is endemic at Royston, and not even there confined to coridnn.
" What is wanted is a pathological term that will cover all similar
cases wherever found.
" Take goitre for instance. ' Derbyshire neck ' might do for it in
that county ; it would be absolutely senseless in the Alps or
Himalayas, yet the disease is known to the doctors of all climates,
by one word, understood by all, whatever their mother tongue.
How can we say I'apilio clearchus ab. roystonensis or P. tJtestylis ab.
roystonensis, of the S. American and Indian faunas !
" If it is advisable to call any form of coridon ab. roystonejisis, let
it be bestowed on one well defined and developed, rarely found
elsewhere.
"Mr. Pickett tells us that last year he examined 60,000 speci-
mens and found 66 roystonensis, or say 1 per 1000. This is
misleading, it is commoner than that. On my first visit (August
