89
12th last) the day of the Field Meeting of the South London Ent.
and Nat. Hist. Socy., I simply collected, that is I captured without
selectimi, and with the exception of several ab. seiiti-sijngrapha
hardly knew what I had got till setting them.
" In round numbers I took 100 females and 25 males, of these 8
were the so called roystonensis, 7 females and 1 male. Ten days
later I only took 1 female in 40, the 5 males I took in addition were
paired, but quite normal. I could make the percentage even
higher for both occasions, but I have only reckoned as roystouensis
those with wings appreciably smaller not those slightly so. If the
shortening of the wings followed a rule, I could understand
bestowing a distinctive name, but where it is now one side, then
another, now forewings, then hindwings, then a mix up of the two,
or only one or three of the wings. Why, I should have to invent
another set of names before I could say which form of roystoneufiis
I was referring to. The proposition is absurd."
SEPTEMBER 9th, 1916.
Field Meeting at Westerham, Kent.
Leader.— B.Y. J. Turner, F.E.S.
This was a very pleasant autumn meeting, which brought
together about a dozen members and friends. The early party
wandered along the slopes of the Downs picking up a few blue
females of Pidyommattui icarus and noting Ccenonympha paniphiluSy
some Goiiepteryx rliainni, a specimen of Pieris napi, and a Vanesaa io.
On one slope large masses of the parasite Cuscuta epithyuinm were
found in flower. The afternoon party went through the woods
towards Limpsfield and were subsequently met by the morning
party on Crockham Hill. Thence an eastern direction was taken
for beating, but as there were few discoveries and time had flown,
the path was taken through Squerries Park back to Westerham
village to tea. Among the captures were Lyfjris testata, Teras
containinana, Grajtltolitha ra»iella and G. penlderiana, Cerostoma
costella, and C. radiatella with other small species.
SEPTEMBER Wth, 1916.
The meeting was taken up with an exhibition and discussion of
Pararye ayeria, introduced by the President.
