94
wings. No blotches, wide bands of light and dark across all
wings. Apical eye bipupillate.
c. Dale, " Hist. Brit. Butt.," p. 87, records one with light rings
to ocelli on hindwings quite wanting.
d. Fowler, " Ent.," 1891, p. 285, records breeding a $ with all
the pale spots replaced with tawny.
e. " Another almost unicolorous dark brown."
/'. Fowler, " Ent.," 1893, p. 30, records a specimen " with extra
central markings forming an interrupted broad band from
tip of hind margin similar to megera."
g, A specimen " with the four spots surrounding the eye much
reduced, all the others nearly obsolete."
h. One with " the row of eye-spots upon the hindwing reduced to
white dots very slightly surrounded with black."
/. Many females " have an extra spot between the two near the
anal angle and the one above " (forewing).
A-. Others " have two inside the anal ones," (forewings), and
I. Some "have the ground all brown."
m. Barrett records, " Lep. Brit. Isl.," vol. i., p. 229, "a specimen
almost of an orange colour taken in Hertfordshire in 1884,"
and
n. Another taken by Major Still on Dartmoor, in August, 1892.
" Its forewings have most of the usual spots, more or less
faintly indicated, but the hind- show no trace of the usual
black spots, or of their yellow rings, or of any marking what-
ever except two minute white dots, which would have been the
pupils of the two black spots, had they existed ; the entire
upperside of the hindwings, with this exception, being of a
blackish olive-brown. The colour of the underside of the
hindwings in this specimen is hardly affected, but that of the
forewings is an unusual shade of tawny olive-brown."
o. Mr. R. Adkin records, 1905, " Proc. S. Lond.," p. 94, a speci-
men with the pale rings on hindwings absent, the ground
colour intensified and somewhat less prominent pale mark-
ing.
5. Geographical Races.
a. (?) xijihia, Fab, Madeira.
b. weone, Cram. Algeria.
c. cgerides, Stgr. Central and North Europe.
d. .viphioides, Stgr. Canary Isles.
e. caiincna, Fruh. Tyrol.
