95
/. ei/estas, Fruh. Dalmatia.
(/. siiioa, Verity. Sardinia.
h. italiea, Verity. Florence and Italy.
i. (?) cas/tinirensis, Bing. W. Himalayas.
VIII. Questions for further investigation..
1. The position of the xlphia of Fabricius.
2. The figures of xiplda in Herrich-Schaeffer.
3. The position of the meone of Cramer.
4. Where does Esper's meone come ?
5. What is .viphioides, Stdgr. ?
7. Is Wagner's figure of meone, " Keis. Alg.," vol. iii., pi. ix.,
1841, the nearest approach to Linnaeus' ayeria'?
8. What is Boisduval's figure of .viphia, " Icones," vol. i., pi. 44,
figs. 6 and 7 ?
9. The elucidation of Hiibner's figures 179, 180, 181, 182.
10. Are there parallel races not repeated broods in the j'ear ?
Mr. Gibbs exhibited a case containing a series of difterent forms
of Paraiye ayeiia from widespread localities, including var. etjerides,
from England, Seine-et-Marne, Vosges, and Swiss Jura ; the eight-
spotted Balkan form from Montenegro, which Cosmovici has named
var. alba ; a specimen from Salonica which more nearly approaches
typical (ii/eria : intermediates from the Eiviera; the ordinary
southern form from eastern Pyrenees, Corsica, Sicily, Cyprus, and
Algeria ; the true vieone, Cr., from Morocco ; and var. xijihioides
from Teneriffe. He expressed the opinion that modern authorities
were correct in holding that Linnaeus had bestowed the name (ryeria
upon the southern form ; the definite statement as to the locality
from which the specimens he was describing came, and the colour-
adjective he used, were strong evidence that this was so. He
thought, however, that Staudinger's name for the northern form,
ei/erides, must fall before the earlier appellation tircis used by
the French authors for this butterfly. So far as he was aware the
name tircis was first printed by Geoftroy in 1764, but he gave no
figure, and the description did not help much. It must be remem-
bered that but six years had elapsed since Linnjeus bestowed the
name (/■(leria on the species, and the difference between its two forms
was probably not then recognised. But in 1779 Ernst and Engra-
melle published their " Insectes d'Europe," and in it they figured
and described the northern form under the name of tircis. J. B.
