" Around London, since the year 1900, I have not taken many-
specimens. These I exhibit are all taken by myself. New Forest
(1906), Shoreham (1908), Porlock (1910), Sidmouth (1911), and
one stray specimen, Chattenden (1913). I have searched for the
last three years near London without success, but I hope to be
more fortunate in my dates next year."
Dr. Chapman showed three specimens of Paranje .viphia from
Teneriffe, a dozen P, (Etjena from the Kiviera (Alassio, Cannes,
Hyeres), three Devonshire specimens, one poor specimen from
the Pyrenees Orientales, better and more extreme specimens had
been given away, but even this one showed that specimens from
this locality, Vernet, and especially Amelie-les-Bains, give to an
English eye the impression rather of inei/era than of a/jeria.
Mr. Leeds exhibited five specimens taken August 1911, var.
eiferides\ three specimens, also August 1911, resembling ffr/t^/v'rt as
obtained in the southern countries of Europe. All taken wild in
Cornwall by Mr. D. Hann, of Knebworth.
Two specimens, Hunts, June 22nd, 1901, var. egerides. On this
date there were thousands in Bevill's Wood, but worn. He had not
seen it there since, although he had frequently visited the locality
every year. Also five specimens taken in South Devon, July 24th,
26th, and 31st, and August 4th, 1916, var. egerides, where it was
only seen occasionally in woods or lanes.
Messrs. Curwen and Hy. J. Turner also exhibited the species from
many localities.
It was generally the opinion that the species was by no means a
a denizen of the woods, but was quite as frequently met with along
hedge-rows in lanes, and even in open fields.
SEPTEMBER 28th, 1916.
Mr. T. W. Hall exhibited a larva of Cossus ligniperda, sent to him
by a friend, and called attention to the habit it had, when annoyed,
of emitting a dark brown evil smelling liquid, apparently out of its
mouth, ejecting it for a distance of quite three or four inches.
Dr. Chapman called attention to the figure of Rosel in " Insect
Belust.," 1740-6, vol. i., pi. xviii., in which a larva is shown shoot-
ing out a liquid from its mouth.
Mr. Bunnett exhibited a piece of wood having a large number of
the beautiful sporangia of the Mycetozoa, Physarum compactum.
