98
Mr. Newman exhibited an aberration of Agriades tJietis, of which
several had been taken by him in Kent during the past season.
The specimen was a male, in which the whole of the wings were
suffused with a dark leaden colour. It was probably the rare form
known as ab. nigra. Mr. Newman said that he only knew of a few
of such aberrations having been taken in this country.
Dr. Chapman exhibited considerable series of grasshoppers, taken
by him on the southern slopes of the North Downs, east and west
of Box Hill, and contributed the following note : —
" A few years ago I sent Mr. Lucas some grasshoppers
from Buckland Hill, two of which he (Mr. Lucas) said were
in his experience rather scarce, and he should like to see
some more. The opportunity to go into the matter occurred
this autumn, with the result that one of these species,
Stenobothrus lineatus, was found to occur wherever sought
for on the slopes of the North Downs, between Eeigate Hill and
Pickett's Hole, most abundantly along the lower part of the drive
in the- Denbies estate, more sparingly elsewhere. The other species
GuDiphocerus rufus seemed to be absent in places, it occurred on
Colley Hill and was most abundant on the slope above Pickett's
Hole. It seemed to be absent (certainly very rare) on Box Hill,
where Gomplwcerns niaciilatKs, a very pretty little grasshopper when
alive, was very abundant, but though a very common species was
not seen on any other part of the slope examined. G. ru/iis, and
less markedly S. lineatus, were most abundant in places where
Agriadea thetis {hellargiis) occurred, i.e., where Hippocrejiis grew.
This may have some meaning or may be mere coincidence. At the
beginning of September nearly all S. lineatus were mature at Dork-
ing, but a few days later (September 7th) barely a majority had
reached the imago state on Colley Hill.
"I exhibit specimens of these and of Chorthipinis parallelus and
Staiir()deru.s bicolor, two species that were not uncommon in the same
localities. It is worth noting again, as something having a reason
behind it that I have not discovered, that Gowplwceriia macidottis
occurs abundantly only on the one portion of the slopes examined,
from which G. rufus appeared to be absent, but was not found else-
where, that the two species appear to be, in fact, on these slopes,
mutually exclusive."
In reference to G. riifiis, Mr. Lucas said that as a rule he had
found it among grass in much damper situations than that in which
it occurred in Dr. Chapman's experience.
