99
OCTOBER 1th, 1910.
Fungus Foray.
Leader.— \^. J. Lucas, B.A., F.E.S.,
Mr. Lucas reports. — " On October 7th, the last excursion of the
season, the Fungus Foray, took place, the hunting-ground being
Oxshott Heath and Esher Common. The day was not an ideal one
as regards weather, though the little rain that fell was not sufficient
to interfere with proceedings. This, however, may have had something
to do with the fact that but six members (Messrs. Sich, Turner, Kaye,
Gibb, Ashdown, Lucas) and one visitor were present. The Selborne
Society and the Wimbledon Natural History Society, we found,
were present on the same quest as ourselves. They were under the
leadership of Dr. Somerville Hastings, Mr. A. A. Pearson, and Miss
E. M. Wakefield, and, as some of their party were known to us, we
decided to join forces. Consequently about 40 naturalists were
piloted through the pine-woods by the various leaders,
"Specially interestmg is the fungus-flora of the pine-woods, if
only from the fact that many species will grow in such a habitat
and nowhere else. Of course Sparasda crispa of which our Society
has previously found on its forays such fine examples, received
marked attention. Several clumps, which were not inaptly com-
pared to the inside of a cauliflower, were met with on this occasion,
and an attempt was made to trace the " stem " of one down to the
roots of a Scotch-fir, near one of which trees the species seems
always to grow. Dr. Hastings considers that the fungus kills the
trees, and was locating examples for further observation. Biisunla
emeticn, with its vivid red cap, was met with everywhere on the
ground, as were many other species, some brilliant in colour, others
more soberly clad. The strange little yellowish fungus, Leotia
luhrica, was found in one spot, and the gelatinous hydnum, known
as 'Iremellodon i/elatinoanni, on several stumps ; but what seemed to
interest the party most was the discovery of a bed of a small black
club-shaped fungus about an inch or so high, called Conlt/ceps
ojihiof/lossoides. This fungus peeps up amongst the fir-needles, and,
when dug-out, is found to be parasitic on the false truffle, FAaplio-
mijces {jranidatii^, a fungus about the size and consistency of a
chestnut. The presence of these underground truffles would scarce
be detected if it were not for the presence above ground of the
sporophores of the parasite. Many of the truffles were brought to
light, not all of course being parasitised. Judging by the fact that
