100
one often sees small holes scratched in the earth, it would appear
that some small animals, perhaps squirrels, are able to detect the
presence of the truffles. One or two only of the many fungi found
are here referred to. Some interesting species of those strange
" plant-animals," the mycetozoa, were met with, but on them I am
not able to report. As darkness came on our small party made its-
way to Oxshott and had tea together before making towards home.
"Mr. Tamer who was the sole representative of the morning
party spent his time collecting the genus Feronea along the hedges
of the path leading from the " covers " to Abrook Common. A
varied series of Teras containinana was obtained, and a few late
examples of other species."
OCTOBER 12th, 1916.
Mr. W. J. Kaye exhibited a specimen of the new species of
Ornithoptera recently figured and described in the "Ann. and Mag.
of N. Hist.," 1915, p. 59,, pis. iv. and v., as (). joirciii. It was from
New Guinea.
Mr. L. W. Newman exhibited several specimens of the extreme
melanic form of Boannia consonaria from East Kent ; examples of
a fine melanic form of B. comortaria from Warwickshire, very
much darker than any form known from other localities, together
with an interesting intermediate specimen ; a good series of full
sized var. rossica of Callimorpha doiiiinnla from Kent; and a bred
series of Dicranura bicnspis from Tilgate Forest.
Mr. A. E. Gibbs exhibited a case of further specimens of Faranje
(Bfjeria var. ef/eridea from S. Devon, and read the following notes : —
" It will be remembered that at a recent meeting I exhibited a
number of specimens of the spring brood of var. ei/erides captured by
Dr. Perkins and myself at Paignton. I drew your attention to the
fact that Dr. Perkins was conducting some rearing experiements
and gave you an idea of the direction in which his observations
were leading. I have now received some most interesting memo-
randa from him which I should like to lay before the Society.
When I was in South Devon at the end of April and the beginning
of May freshly-emerged females were fairly common, but females
appear to have been less in evidence later on. The comparatively
few captured by Dr. Perkins in May and up to the middle of June
(excepting one or two, evidently virgins, freshly-hatched specimens)
