103
could hibernate at almost any stage from quite young to almost
full grown, and that hibernation also took place in the pupal stage.
Mr. Newman stated that he saw no spring specimens in 1916 but
that from a female obtained in June he had ova which produced
imagines in September, not one remaining over.
Mr. W. J. Kaye read the report of the Field Meeting held at
Ockham and Wisley on May 20th (see page 61).
Mr. Hy. J. Turner read the reports of the Field Meeting held at
Clandon on June 24 th (see page 71), and of the Field Meeting held
at Box Hill on July 22nd (see page 78).
Mr. Sich reported that the balsam Impatiem payri/lora occurred
wild in the neighbourhood of Chiswick, and also that he had
recently met with a larva of Mamestra oleracea feeding on ivy in
the Temple Gardens,
Mr. F. W. Frohawk exhibited a $ Celaatvinn aiijiolim in which
there were several small streaks of 3 coloration running through
the wide marginal band on the left forewing, and also an underside
of another specimen of the same species in which there was a
streak of black of irregular width extending from the base of the
wing across the centre to the hind margin near the anal angle of the
hindwing. He also showed a specimen of Aryijunia cijilippe [atlijipc)
from an old collection, in which the black markings on the upper-
side were united across the disc of the wings to form a narrow
irregular transverse band. The specimen was large, the ground
colour dark and rich and the underside was quite normal.
Mr. A. E. Gibbs exhibited a number of purse-like galls on the
petiole of the leaves of poplar, Popnlns niijra v. jii/ramiilalis. They
were ascertained to be caused by the Aphid, PempliKjua bnrsarius.
He pointed out the illustration of a similar species in the recent
" Report of the Entomological Society of Ontario " in a plate
reproduced from Malpighi's " De Gallis," 1686, and communicated
the following note : —
" Galls of Pemphigus bursarius, ItocH. — In the garden of
Bricket House Hospital, St. Albans, are some Lombardy Poplars
growing close to the fence. Passing by them one day in July after
a gale of wind I noticed some of the leaves which had been blown
off had curious swellings on their petioles. Examination showed
that they were galls caused by insect puncture. My attention
having been arrested by these stray leaves, I looked at the tree
more closely and observed that a very large number of the leaves
had been similarly attacked. I took one of the galls home and in
