104
a short time bred from it a number of aphides. Other galls which
I cut open contained nymphs. The history of the gall is this : the
queen aphis punctures the cuticle of the leaf stalk which causes the
sap to exude and to form a swelling, which gradually increases in
bulk and encloses the queen aphis, leaving only a small aperture at
the apex of the gall. In this cavity the queen brings forth a
numerous brood of nymphs, which, when they arrive at the winged
state, make their exit through the opening at the top of the gall.
The shape of these galls is very variable, but the majority of those
I picked up were roughly pyriform. Among the specimens I show
will be seen a petiole on which there are two galls, one above the
other. An illustration of the galls may be found in the late Mr.
Edward Connold's " British Vegetable Galls," p. 239, etc., pi. 104,
(1901)."
Mr. Gibbs also showed a new species of the Sijntowichc and
communicated the following description : —
•' I also exhibit a moth which is new to science. It was sent
home by ray collector Norton and was taken by him in the moun-
tains of Guatemala in December last, at a place called San
Cristobol, where the poor fellow died suddenly a few weeks back,
and the sad news of his death has just reached me. It is a
Chlorostola, and its nearest relative is C. coridon, from which it
differs chiefly in the orange-red colour of the terminal segments of
the abdomen. I propose to call it Chlorostola phylli.s, n. sp."
Mr. Dennis exhibited a photograph of the species of Dodder,
CiiscHta europaa, parasitical on clover. Mr. Turner reported that
the morning party at the Westerham Field Meeting in September
met with large masses of the species C. epitl^jwHui on wild thyme,
and that when trodden upon and bruised there was a distinctive
scent.
OCTOBER 26tli, 1916.
The death of a member, Mr. C. A. Briggs, F.E.S., of Lynmouth,
was announced with regret. He was a constant attendant at the
meetings a quarter of a century ago.
Mr. Bowman exhibited examples of Aricia vwdon (astro reJw) in
one of which the discal spots on the underside lower wings are
missing and are replaced by white splashes. Another example was
a pure var. ubsolcta in which all the spots on the underside were
