105
absent except the discoidal in each wing. All four wings were
heavily striated with white.
Mr. Brooks exhibited specimens of the introduced floating water-
plant Azulla caroliniana from Enfield. Some years ago it was
reported as being found in ponds in the neighbourhood of
•Chigwell. It is a Rhizocarp not far removed from the ^larsiliacea.
Mr. Hugh Main exhibited a stereoscopic picture of the stag-
beetle, Lucanus cerviis, taken shortly after pupation.
Mr. Frohawk exhibited drawings by himself of two remarkable
aberrations of British birds ; a specimen of the Curlew from
Caithness in which the markings were both strongly melanic and
strongly albinistic, and an example of the Lapwing which was pure
white with the exception of the breast. It was noted that although
lapwings were extremely abundant, very little aberration of
marking had been noticed.
Mr. Hy. J. Turner exhibited a collection of specimens arranged
to show the genus Paraii/e in its most extended sense, and in the
same order as they are placed in the National Collection, to
illustrate his paper, " The Genus Paranje, Hiib.," which he then
read. (See page 7).
Mr. Frohawk reported that he had just received a letter from
Ireland announcing that on October the 20th a specimen of Anmia
plexippiis had been captured in Co. Cork. So far as he knew this
was the first Irish specimen of this species. There were now he
believed some 30 British specimens of which nine had been met
with m Cornwall. In answer to a question as to its flight by
night, Mr. Frohawk said that there was no direct evidence of it,
but that it must do so, as to cross the Atlantic in a "day was quite
impossible. He noted that many species flew by night in their
migration, and specimens had been seen to float on the water and
even to rise from it to continue their flight. The stages of the
species were so extremely short that neither ovum, larva nor pupa
could be brought over, nor was there the special food-plant
available to sustain the larva.
Mr. Curwen asked the opinion of members as to whether they
considered this migration to be voluntary or a matter of com-
pulsion from the force of the wind. Some years ago he had
noticed Pyraineis cardni in some numbers strenuously endeavouring
to stand against the wind, which was blowing strongly from the
low clifls, apparently not wanting to go but compelled to by the
wind force.
