106
Mf. Frohawk said that in calm weather many observations had
been made of these migrations, which appeared to be quite-
vokmtary, and he instanced a case in Switzerland in which for
hours individuals of a species had been noted as passing a
particular spot, all flying definitely in the same direction every
minute or two.
Mr. Turner recalled the remark of the late Mr. McArthur
that one of the best opportunities, which occurred to him while
colleqting in the Himalayas, was to capture the swarms of butter-
flies which came up from the lower valleys against the wind
blowing down from the mountain slopes.
Mr. Frohawk noted that a head-wind afforded excellent facility
for birds to rise against the wind, and Mr. Brooks referred to the
advice of old collectors at Wicken, that the sheet and light should^
be so arranged that the moths would come up against the wind.
Mr. Leeds and Mr. Adkin had seen migrations come in from the
sea in quite calm weather, and Mr. Adkin said that the method of
flight of the insects he had observed on migration quite gave him
the impression that it was a voluntary matter. He referred to the
case of quantities of Plunia ijanuna going up straight into the air
from a wheat-field, completely out of sight.
NOVEMBER 9th, 1916.
Mr. G. W. Mason of Ealing was elected a member.
Professor Bateson, F.R.S., gave a lecture with lantern and other
illustrations entitled, " Remarks on the Mendelian Theories, with
especial reference to recent extensions in their applicatton made
in America." Some discussion subsequently took place.
Mr. G. T. Porritt exhibited a gynandromorph specimen of
Lasiocaiiipa querciis and an olive-banded male of the same
species, both from the moors near Huddersfield. Also a lemon-
yellow male of Cosmotridie potatoria from Cambridgeshire.
Mr. J. Platt-Barrett exhibited a considerable number of Lijranidie.
taken by himself this season, and contributed the following notes
on his exhibit.
" This season I have seen seven species of Li/ran idtr on the wing.
" 1. Celastn'na ari/iolitx. Forest Hill as usual.
"2. I'oli/iinnnatiis icanis. Mid Kent, the end of May, one speci-
