107
men exhibited, an intensely blue one. During the summer I only
met with worn specimens.
" 8. Aijriades thetis. In Mid Kent, where in early June I paid
a special visit, I caught one $ only, so went on to E. Kent where I
could easily have reached my limit of 50 specimens. I show the
best blue $ s that I took, also a ? ab. minor, which occurs some
years. Some of the females were large, and one 3 was deformed
on the left side. In September a $ was captured also deformed
on the left side, and generally the females were small and without
blue scaling.
" 4. Alicia iiicdiin (astrarc/n'). The spring brood only.
" 5. Ciqiido inininiiis. July, then worn.
" 6. Plebeius idjon. In early August abundant at Oxshott. It
varied in size, one ab. minor 3 was taken. The undersides varied
from grey to brown. A blue ? and several ab. major were taken.
" 7. Af/riades coridon. Tempted to Royston on August 12th, I
first saw Agriades coridon literally in hundreds, and I no longer
wonder that the specimens there vary so much. I wonder they
have not turned cannibals to get sustenance and destroyed them-
selves entirely, and I should not be surprised to find that deformity
follows overcrowding and that when the numbers decrease, ab.
roijstuneni^is will disappear. Near Tring on the 15th August after
tramping a mile on Downs that barely produced a specimen of A.
coridon, our small party discovered the metropolis, almost as
crowded as Royston and I was lucky after the heavy rain had ceased
to pick up a few blue examples and also some " deformities." One
5 taken was almost the form ab. fon-leri, and the undersides
showed much variation in depth of ground colour."
NOVEMBER 23rd, 1916.
Mr. Edwards exhibited several seeds of vegetable ivory, and con-
tributed the following note : —
" The plant yielding the ' vegetable ivory ' of commerce is known
to botanists as P/njteh'idiaa wacrocarpa, a palm, a native of South
America, chiefly on the banks of the river Magdaiona, Columbia,
not only, however, on the lower coast region as in Darien, but also
at a considerable elevation above the sea. It is mostly found in
separate groves, not mixed with other trees or shrubs, and where
travellers tell us even herbs are rarely met with, ' the ground appear-
