108
ing as if it had been swept.' It is a stemless or caulescent palm-
like plant, the top of which is crowned with from 12 to 20 very long
pinnatifid leaves. The plants are diaecious, the males forming higher,
more erect, and robust trunks than the females. The fruit consists
of a conglomerated head composed of six or seven drupes, and con-
taining six to nine seeds, the whole being enclosed in a walled,
woody covering, forming altogether a globular head as large as a
man's. A single plant sometimes bears at the same time from six to
eight of these large heads of fruit, each weighing from 20 to 25 lbs.
They are imported into Britain under the name of ' Corozo ' nuts, a
name by which the fruits of some species of palm, Attalea, are
known in Central America, their uses being chiefly for small articles
of turnery."
Mr. West (Ashtead) exhibited a very beautiful specimen of fossil
Madrepore.
Mr. L. W. Newman exhibited a fine series of very darkly marked
specimens of Aijriopis aprilina, from Teesdale.
Mr. F. W. Frohawk exhibited a bred series of Chrijsopliauus mtiliis
bred from ova, the race originating in Holland. He considered it
the nearest approach to our now extinct C. dispar. The Austrian
race was less like the latter and had less developed spots. He also
exhibited a drawing of a very rare form of the Red Grouse {Layopiis
scoticiiH) from Derbyshire. It was of an extreme silvery variety, of
which only one or two previous examples had been recorded. This
species varies extremely, but an albino of this degree was stated to
be almost unique.
Mr. Hy. J. Turner exhibited a long and very varied series of
Peronea cristana, including many named forms. Mr. Adkin
remarked that although many names had been applied, it appeared
to him that the variation fell into a series of more or less well
defined groups, and the variation occurring in the groups was not
sufficient in most cases to justify the bestowal of further varietal
names.
Mr. Turner also exhibited examples of I'arnossiKs vinfDiosi/iie from
various continental localities, showing trivial and local variation.
One female specimen showed the " pouch " formed below the
abdomen after copulation.
Mr. Brooks reported that he had heard from Mr. B. S. Williams,
who was at Blackpool, that recently the sea there had been extremely
phosphorescent. He himself had seen two Martins at St. Margaret's
Bay, on November 15th, which he considered was a very late date;
