110
(3) Zijiiaena trifolii, Esp., a yellow aberration, one of the original
series taken by Mr. W. M. Christy in 1893, at Watergate.
(4) Zyijaena filipendulic, L., a yellow aberration taken by Mr, C.
D. Head, at Tenby, ] 897 ; an aberration with confluent spots on
left forewings ; an aberration intermediate between yellow and red ;
and a fine bred example of the aberration chrysantlieuii, much
darker than usual.
(5) A new phase of variation illustrated by twelve new forms
of Heliconius vielponione from French Guiana, taken between
the two places, St. Jean and St. Laurent, on the Maroni river.
These were named primus, J. & K., collis, J. & K., \nelpina, J. & K.,
nei/roiila, J. & K,, maris, J. & K., faustalia, J. & K., elefjantula, J. &
K., eltriju//taiiii, J. & K., piinctarius, J. it K., majestica, J. k K.,
Incimh'lla, J. & K., and stygianus, J. & K. The most remarkable
among these were primus, uiarls, and punctarius, which collectively
represented a wholly new phase of variation in vtelpomone, with a
conspicuous yellow spot within the cell. In describing all these
new forms it was pointed out that the end kept in view was that, as
the iiielj)omene forms divide up according as to whether they have
a hindwing with either (1) a black, (2) a red base, (3), a red base
and flame-streaks, it was necessary to describe each phase of the
forewing in each category of the hindwing as soon as it was known
to occur. In many instances this repetition is known to occur, but
in some few cases up till now the links are missing. For instance,
there is no known pure black -melpomeue. Yet it seems possible that
some day it may occur, for forms occur with all the discal forewing
colouring absent, and melpomene itself has of course a black hind-
wing, but till now absence of discal forewing colouring is only
known when the base of the forewing is red, when also at the same
time the hindwing is either red at base or flame-streaked in addi-
tion. Most of the forms named above were to be figured on a plate
to appear in the " Transactions of the Entomological Society of
London." (1916, p. 412, pts. cvii, cviii.)
Mr. W. J. Kaye himself exhibited a large cabinet drawer containing
practically all the species of the Ithomiine genus, Leucutlnjris. The
genus was characteristically composed of transparent insects with
black markings, and a recurring feature was a black belt across the
cell of the forewing. Although the majority of the species were
thus coloured there was a small group that had developed a varying
amount of orange marking on the forewing. These species were
■doubtless mimics of other Ithomiines, or species of other families.
