113
4. 2 • Extra spot, and straw-coloured streak on each forewing.
Upperside. Devon, August 5th, 1916,
5. (? . Complete absence of black spot from each forewing.
Underside. Herts, August 20th, 1916.
6. 2 • Two very large additional ocellated spots on each fore-
wing. Upperside. Devon, August 5th, 1916.
7. ? . Ab. iiiincki (yellow) with an extra black dot on each fore-
wing. Underside. Devon, August 3rd, 1916.
8. ? . Small black streak beneath usual spot on each forewing,
ground colour ochreous, borders pale. Underside. Devon, August
1st, 1916.
Mr. L. W. Newman, on behalf of Mr. Percy Richards, exhibited
a very fine collection of preserved larviC of Macro-lepidoptera con-
taining about half the British species. The larvaa after being blown
were hand-painted by Mr. Richards, so that they appear in their
natural colours.
On behalf of Mr. G. B. Oliver, of Wolverhampton, Mr. L. W.
Newman exhibited a fine series of varieties of Agriades thetis {ado)iis),
including a fine ab. obsuleta, two ab. aemi-obsoleta, a ver}^ fine ?
underside forewings obsoleta, and hindwings beautifully striated, and
the whole of the ground colour creamy white, a <? underside of the
snow-white ground colour, and other interesting undersides. A
leaden coloured upperside J , a 3" having the leaden colour and
normal blue colour mixed, and a fine <? with ground colour
about half way between normal and leaden.
A series of Polyommatus icarus, $ s, showing considerable varia-
tion, a fine ^ ab. obsoleta, large spotted and other forms, and
Cimonytiipha panqJiilus imderside spotless, and one with extra
spots.
On behalf of Signior Piazzo, Mr. Newman exhibited a fine
example of the decoraria (subroseata) form of Zonnsonia pendtdaria,
but having a white line behind the dark outer border between
it and the red suli'asion.
Mr. Newman's own exhibits were : —
1. A series of Celerio (jallii, bred from North Cornish parents.
2. A series of hybrid ocellatiis x populi showing considerable
variation.
3. A long series of Amorpha populi aberrations from extremely
pale to rich pink, and also some pretty mottled and some dark forms.
4. Unicolorous black specimens of Eupitliecia lariciata from
Warwickshire.
