Hi
Mr. Newman also exhibited a series of a species of British
Geometer new to science, and contributed the following note : —
"I am exhibiting what is believed to be a new species of Geo-
meter, first discovered by the Rev. W. Metcalfe, in North Devon,
nine years ago, and again found by the same gentleman in East
Devon in 1914, and pronounced wrongly to be a small local form of
Lampropteri/x siifuinata. It has also been found in 1914 at Bod-
min, in Cornwall, by Mr. A. Bowen, in the same locality as L.
siifamata and Eiistronia silaceata, both of which species it resembles
in some characters. All evidence, except genitalia, so far points to
the fact that this is a new species.
" It is double-brooded, appearing in May and August, whereas L.
siiffiimata in the same locality is single-brooded, it appears freshly
out when L. suffumata is worn, and both fly in company in the same
wood. It refuses all Galium, as a food plant except Galium saxatile,
which is obviously not its natural food, as the locality is a boggy
wood and L. sufumata will freely feed on all species of Galium.
" The 1st and 2nd brood specimens are almost identical, and both
when placed beside a series of L. sufumata are very distinct. The
shape of the wmgs is entirely different, the new species having a
very rounded forewing, whereas that of L. sufumata is pointed.
The colour of the hindwings is duller and devoid of marking.
" It is hoped to work out the whole life-history in 1917, and publish
the records, which will firmly establish this interesting insect as an
addition to our British moths."
In the remarks made on this very interesting exhibit, Mr. Mera
said, " I am quite of opinion that this is not a form of L. su/fumata,
but is a distinct species which has been overlooked. Having dis-
cussed the subject with the Rev. J. W. Metcalfe of Ottery, St. Mary,
Devon (who takes the species), he very kindly procured me a few
ova during the early part of May, and as he had already tried them
on the usual food plant for L. sufumata without success, I gave my
larvae a variety of choice, including the small willow-herb [Epilo-
bimii pariifiorum /) and also K. aiuiustifolium (I believe), and a spray
of the small white bedstraw (Galium saxatile), which usually grows
on open common land. This last named plant was the only one
touched. I only succeeded in getting four larvte to commence to
feed, all of which I reared to the perfect state. They all emerged
as a second brood in the beginning of August. These again paired
and I obtained ova, but although I gave them the same food as
before I could get none of the larvae to feed. I think this failure
