115
may have been due to some extent to the extremely lethargic nature
of the young larvte, which appear to keep to the spot on which they
hatch, and there perish."
Several members considered that the food-plants mentioned so
far were possibly only substitutes, and that the true food-plant had
yet to be discovered.
The Rev. A. T. Stiflf exhibited—
1. A series of aberrations of Kpinc/i/iele jurtina {janira), including
bipupillate specimens, females with yellow instead of orange round
the apical spots, very pale females, females with extra spots on the
undersides of the forewings, and a male with pale, indistinct bars
on the hindwings. This last is a particularly interesting specimen,
as the scales under the microscope show no sign of abortion or
' bleaching,' but the bars are apparently genuine pale bars such as
are usual in the female, but generally hardly apparent in the male.
All are from Folkestone or Tavistock.
2. A short series of An-tia villica, bred from Bentleet larvfe, show-
ing considerable variation.
8. A pale, semi-transparent Hi/porrita jaci)b([<r, bred from a Tavis-
tock larva ; comparing in colour with the rest of the brood as
Zijijiina i>nri)uralis does with Z. trifolii.
4. Three aberrations of Cfenonijmjiha jia)n}ihili(s. (a) A very large
femnle with black ocelli on the hindwings. Folkestone. (/;) Female
with double apical spot on the underside, (c) Male with minute,
but perfect, apical spot on underside.
Mr. G. T. Porritt exhibited a very fine series of extreme forms of
Abraxas firoasidariata ab. nvjrosparnata, bred by himself from Hud-
dersfield wild larvae in 1916.
Mr. W. West (Greenwich) exhibited twelve drawers of the Euro-
pean butterflies presented to the Society by the widow of the late
Mr. F. F. Freeman.
Mr. S. G. Castle Russell exhibited —
1. ApIuuitoiJKs Iii/iierantiis. A series of varieties, including ab.
cicca, ab. arete, and var. lanceolata, together with specimens with a
number of rings on upper hindwing, varying from one to three. All
the specimens with two exceptions were from North Hants. Mostly
bred from ova.
2. A;iriailes coridnii. A male specimen showing unusually rich
colouring, Wilts ; a male specimen showing unusually pale colour-
ing with absence of black margins, Herts ; and a typical bred speci-
men for comparison, Surrey.
