116
3. Satiiniia pavonia. A gynandromorph having head and antennae
male, body female, and one wing male.
4. Deiopeia piilchella. An example taken on the Surrey Downs,
June 14th, 1913.
5. Mimas tili(r. A specimen lacking the four spots on the upper
wings,
Mr. A. A. W. Buckstone exhibited several series of Selenia Imuiria
originating from the Teesdale District.
A. Type forms (for comparison) bred from parent insect. Emer-
gence, June.
B. Fourth generation bred in captivity. Emergence, April to
June, 1916. A selected female of each generation was paired with
a wild male.
C. Fifth generation. Inbred from two pairing of B. Emergence,
October 4th to December 5th, 1916.
Failed in an attempt to force pupa^ in summer, but fourteen
moths emerged under natural conditions. There are 46 pupae
remaining over.
D. Dwarfed specimen bred from a full fed larva taken at Box
Hill in September. Moth emerged in the following May.
He communicated the following note : —
" Both the type and a much darker form occur in the Teesdale
district (on Yorkshire and Durham side). Some of the specimens
shown at B and C would appear to approach ab. stMunaria.
" It is usual for the pup;c of the second (summer) brood to remain
green, but those which produced the moths which emerged October
to December (C) were brown, as are those which have yet to emerge.
The moths themselves are, speaking generally, considerably darker
than the April-June specimens, instead of being lighter as those of
the second (summer) brood almost invariably are. These two
peculiarities, together with the fact that the moths commenced to
emerge only after the pupie had been subjected to frost, cause me to
consider them rather as precocious members of the usual spring
emergence.
" Specimens exhibited varied from greyish through various shades
of brown to red-brown, thickly sprinkled with red scabs."
Mr. Bowman exhibited a short series of Zunosonia {/■!/>}ii/r(i) pendu-
laria, and communicated the following notes : —
" 1. Examples, in which the pink suffusion on the forewings is
almost absent.
