117
" 2. Examples, in which the space between the inner and oviter
lines on the forewings is heavily suffased with pink.
" 3. Examples, in which the white ground colour is absent, and
instead all wings are completely suffused.
" 4. Examples, in which the dots forming the inner and outer
lines on both fore- and hindwings are elongated in such a manner
as to give them the appearance of being striated forms.
" 5. Examples of var. niijro-Hiibroseata.
" The first example of this form I bred on April 27th, 1911, from
a wild larva beaten in the autumn of 1913.
" By pairing this form with the typical form I have obtained,
what I believe to be, an entirely new form of this insect. Whereas
in the var. nigro-snbroseata the space between the inner and outer
lines on the forewings is pink, in this new form it is the same
colour as the marginal bands, and therefore they may be described
as being purple all over with the exception of the white inner and
outer marginal lines.
" I am showing the only two examples I have of this form."
The Rev. J. E. Tarbat exhibited — 1, A female Aiiriailea cnridon
with no trace of orange marginal spots. 2. A male of the same
species with the right lower wing malformed, another with the
marginal spots of the hindwings coalescing, and an ab. obsolcta.
3. A Miina'i tilue aberration asymmetrically marked, the right upper
wing having the band divided into two spots, the left having only
one portion of the band, that on the costa, present, and of less size
than the corresponding portion on the right side.
Mr. Prideaux exhibited a series of aberrations of the female of
Fubjoiiniiatns icariis, and an example of the ab. schtiiidtii form (yel-
low) of Riiinicia phl/ms.
Mr. Stanley Edwards exhibited a number of species of exotic
Papilionida and various species of the genus Enrania.
Mr. H. Moore, in support of his contention that the ab. roi/sto-
nensis of A;iriades coridon is a cripple and not worthy of a varietal
name, exhibited a box of specimens of various species from different
parts of the world showing a like deformity, and said probably most
of them were due to a like cause, i.e., a disease which arrested their
full development, and that a term was wanted tbat applied to all simi-
lar cases wherever found. He also su,<=;gested that 9 s showing male
coloration should be styled "gynandrous," that the possession of
"androconia" did not necessarily indicate any alteration in sex, and
