118
that only those having portions of their anatomy of the S ^hape
should be called gynandromorphic.
Mr. C. P. Pickett exhibited a drawer of representative specimens
of Ani/erona prunaria showing results after interbreeding for 19
years, the last five years being devoted to colour. Those fed under
yellow surroundings are all of a decided orange-yellow, many females
approaching the males in coloration ; those fed under green, the
ground coloration being much paler, approaching more to whitish-
yellow, quite a contrast to the orange-yellow forms. Those reared
under red conditions are of a deep rich orange in the males and
deep banded chocolate in the females, the chocolate predominating,
the yellow in some cases being almost absent. Those reared under
pink are certainly lighter in colour, the chocolate markings being
broken up, and the yellow extending through to the edge of the
wedge. The ex'hibit included a long series of ab. pickettaria. This
form shows the chocolate bands very narrow and running across
nearer the centre of the wings, the borders being quite yellow in the
females and orange in the males.
Mr, Pickett also exhibited several drawers of A;iriades corUlon
aberrations taken in the Herts district in 1916.
Males. — Uppersides : — Long series varying in colour from
whitish-blue to almost cuUmu blue, containing ab. fouieri ; many
without the black borders ; several ab. mart/inata with the black
margin extending along the lower wings, giving them a striking
appearance ; one with lower wings of a lilac shade ; several ab.
siiJf'Ksa and ab. iniiior : one with left side wings typical, right side
upper wing ab. nitff'Ksa, and lower wing powdered black over the
whole area ; another with left side lower w^ing of a bleached whitish
shade, the other wnigs being normal ; one with right upper wing
rounded same as lower wing with cilia extending around ; one with
only three normal wings, the left upper wing missing entirely (was
captured flying).
Undersides: — Two perfect ab. ohsuleta; three with -extra large
spotting ; one with left side lower wing true ab. absoleta, and the
other wings typical ; one of a white ground colour with hardly any
trace of markings on border, the black dottings showing very con-
spicuously ; three with very dark ground coloration approaching the
female.
Females. — Uppersides : — Long series containing ab. se>iii-.v/n-
grapha : five almost ab. si/)iiiiapha\: four with the whole of the wings
black, showing no border markings; five with the upper wings
