119
intense black with no markings on border, the hindwings showing
blue spotting over the red lunules, a lovely striking form ; two with
white spotted borders, as in ab. f aider i ; several with red bordering
on all four wings ; several with white-rayed borders extending from
edge of wings to the central areas; ab. minor; four ab. incequalis
containing deep dashes of male coloration (gynandrous) ; three ab.
ri>ystonensis (gynandrous), the right side both upper and lower wings
much smaller than the left, and well powdered with blue andro-
conia.
Undersides : — One perfect ab. ohsoleta with whitish ground colour ;
another ab. ohaoUta with left wing without the usual border, the
markings rayed into the central area, the right side unfortu-
nately being crippled, otherwise it would have been a choice speci-
men; another true ab. obsoleta with the groundcolour of a beautiful
cinnainon-brown ; two with right side lower wings perfect ab. obso-
leta, other wings being typical ; two ab. striata with deep black
dashes in place of the usual spotting ; many with ground colour of
a blackish-brown ; one of a very light ground colour (passable as a
male) ; one with very dark borders, the central area being white.
Mr. Robert Adkin exhibited series of Fuhjommatns icams. from
Scotland, including the Orkney Isles (representing its most northerly
British range) and the Outer Hebrides, North and South Ireland,
North Wales, the North and South of England, the Isle of Man, and
the Scilly Isles. The series from the North of Ireland were remark-
able for the large size of the individuals comprised in them, some of
the males measuring 88mm. in expanse, and for the brilliant blue
coloration and large size and intensity of the red submarginal spots
of the females. Many of the Scotch specimens also were of large
size, especially those from Orkney and the Hebrides, but the females
were generally less brilliant except in the case of those from the last
named locality, which closely approached the Irish. The South
English series included many well-marked undersides, intensely
blue and brown females, with many intermediates, and a couple of
gynandromorphs taken respectively on Wandsworth Common, in
1860, and at Dover, in 1900.
JANUARY nth, 1917.
^Ir. West exhibited a spray of flowers which had just expanded
from the buds sent to him from South Africa. Mr. Morton said
