120
the plant was a Liliaceous one, known there as the "cape lily," and
was very common.
Mr. Curwen exhibited examples of the various forms of the genus
Zyifana allied to the beautiful Z. carniolica. The series included
the named forms, Z. carniolica, Z. formoaa, Z. hilaris, Z. occitanica,
Z. lata, and Z. sedi, considered to be forms of specific value, with
ab. herolinensis and ab. lieJijsari of Z. carniolica, and ab. alhicann of
Z. occitanica.
Mr. Moore exhibited specimens of the deep green Sphingid
Euchloron megara from South Africa, and a specimen of a large
Phyllodine moth, Miniocles discolor. (See Kirby's •' Hand. Lep.,"
vol. v., p. 168, pit. 142.)
Eev. F. M. B. Carr exhibited his captures of the past season in
Staffordshire and at Wye on the Severn, together with a series of
Agriades coridon forms and other captures from Koyston. There
were nice varied series of the early emergence of Leptosia sina/iis, of
Brenthis selene, Ayrotis segettuii, some very dark forms of Acronicta
leporina, examples of the intensely black form of Xylophasia wono-
glypha, a nice series of Euhjpe haatata, a row of Venusia cainbrica,
etc.
Mr. Hugh Main exhibited a cage made by him to facilitate the
breeding of burrowing beetles of the genus Geotrnpesi, and at the
same time to allow of full observation being made of the whole
process of digging the galleries, massing the pabulum, laying the
ova, feeding and growth of the larva, the act of pupation, etc., and
read a paper entitled " On Rearing Beetles of the Genus Geotmpes,"
summing up his observations so far and criticising somewhat
strongly previously published records of similar observations. (See
page 18.)
It was suggested that possibly cages on the same lines might be
suitable for observation of the life-history of some of the burrowing
JANUARY 25tli, 1917.
Mr. Hy. J. Turner, F.E.S., Prksident, in the chair.
The meeting was devoted to the business of receiving and adopt-
ing the Report of the Council and the Treasurer's statement, and the
announcement of the results of the election of OfMcers and Council
for the ensuing year.
