8
year, a somewhat larger butterfly, of a dark violaceous blue colour
with plentiful black markings, two conspicuous white spots near the
apex of the forewings, and a deep red band running parallel with
the margin of both fore- and hindwing. The name given to the
insect just described is Preris amestris, the slightly different form
found in the southern and eastern regions of Africa being known as
P. sesainus. Looking at a specimen of P. natctlensis side by side
with one of P. sesaunis from the same locality, we should be inclined
to say that they were as different in aspect as two butterflies very
well could be ; and when Mr. Trimen published his famous book on
South African butterflies (1887) he had no hesitation in considering
them as entirely distinct from one another. But there were known
at that time a few specimens which seemed to combine the charac-
ters of the two species in various proportions ; one of these was
figured by Mr. Trimen in his book. The existence of such transi-
tional specimens was by him attributed to hybridisation between
the two species.
It had, however, occurred to more than one naturalist that a
different explanation of these intermediate forms was possible, and
in the year 1896 Mr. G. A. K. Marshall made the definite suggestion
that several seemingly distinct species of the genus Precis, including
those now under discussion, could be ranked in pairs ; each pair
constituting a separate species existing in a two-fold form, one
phase belonging to the wet and the other to the dry season. Nata-
lensis and sesamus were thus pronounced to be seasonal phases of the
satiie species ; and two years later Mr. Marshall was able to supply
an absolute proof of the truth of his suggestion, by breeding speci-
mens of the dark blue sesamus from eggs laid by the sahiion-coloured
7iatalensis. This case is as striking in its way as that of the Euro-
pean Araschnia levana and A. prorsa. It was not long before Mr.
Marshall obtained equally decisive proof of the correctness of his
supposition m the case of another member of the same genus, for
he succeeded in breeding two specimens of Precis antilope from eggs
laid by the butterfly known as Precis simia. And during the next
three years a similar relation was proved by breeding to exist
between two more pairs of the genus Precis. Although the same
indisputable proof has not yet been forthcoming in every other
kind of Precis, there is now no reasonable doubt that Mr. Marshall's
original suggestion was in accordance with the facts, and will in
course of time be fully verified.
Many more instances of the same kind are now known to natu-
ralists, but before considering any of these we may turn our atten-
tion for a time to the question of the meaning of these remarkable
alternations in the life, not of the individual, but of the species itself.
Ever since the promulgation by Darwin and Wallace of the theory
of natural selection, most students of nature have trained themselves
to look for some purpose in the outstanding features of all living
beings. The search is not always successful, but in a very large
