number of cases, increasing almost every day, it is found that utility
either to the individual or the species is at the bottom of the charac-
ters which come under our observation, whether of aspect, structure
or behaviour. The Darwinian view of organic nature is in fact
strictly teleological, a term the use of which has sometimes been
considered, I venture to think undeservedly, as involving a kind of
reproach. Now is there, it may be asked, any reason to suppose
that the phenomenon of seasonal dimorphism is of any benefit to
the species which exhibit it ? It would be difficult to give an
answer that would apply to all the know'n cases. We should have,
I think, to admit that the benefit, if any, is not always obvious.
We can sometimes form conjectures of a greater or less degree of
probability ; something may be due to the past history of the species
if it could be unravelled, and still more perhaps to what is called
" correlation " with a really useful feature. But there certainly are
cases in which we can assign a useful purpose to the seasonal
change with a very high degree of probability indeed. Such a case
is to be found in the genus Precis that we have just been
considering.
Looking at the undersides of several species of Precis, we can see
at once that they strongly resemble dead and withered leaves. The
midrib of the leaf is represented by a stripe running across both
fore- and hindwing, from the tip of the former to the posterior
angle of the latter. This angle is often prolonged to look like a
stalk, and the surface of the wings is apt to be mottled in a manner
that suggests spots of decay or growths of microscopic fungi. Ex-
amining the matter a little more closely, we find that in many cases
it is only the dry-season phase of the species that puts on the dead-
leaf appearance, the wet-season phase of the same species showing
no such resemblance at all. (See P. simia and P. antUope.) In
other species both seasonal forms are like dead leaves beneath ; but
when this is the case, the resemblance is greater in the dry season
than it is in the wet. Now when an insect goes out of its w^ay, so
to speak, in order to look like a leaf, a stick, or a bundle of dry
grass, we may conclude with very great probability that there is a
meaning in this departure, and that the meaning is the necessity of
concealment, either for the purpose of approaching its prey unob-
served, or of itself escaping the attention of enemies who desire to
prey on it. We may therefore put down these dead-leaf appearances
as instances of what Professor Poulton has called cryptic coloration,
that is to say, coloration whose object is concealment. But now the
question arises, why should this kind of protection be so much
better developed in the dry season than in the wet, and why in some
cases should it not be found in the wet-season forms at all ? To
this question a reasonable answer can be given.
It has been pointed out by Professor Poulton that insect-eating
animals of all sorts jn the tropics find it much harder to get their
food in the dry season than in the wet. Many insects hide them-
