selves away altogether during the months of drought; and although
several kinds of butterflies remain in evidence, they are at that time
usually much scarcer in individuals than they are during the rains.
The cousequence of this state of thmgs is that the struggle for life
becomes much keener in the dry than in the wet season. If a species
is to survive this period of stress, it has to employ some highly
efficient means of protection from its enemies, who from the scarcity
of their provender are very much alive to any chance of a meal that
presents itself. The wonderfully close resemblance to such an object
as a dead leaf affords in all probability an especially good means of
protection, and no doubt many individuals of these species of but-
terflies owe their survival through the period of exceptional danger
to this mode of defence. In the wet season, on the other hand,
insect life is abundant. Many butterflies produce several successive
broods in the course of the rains, and hosts of beetles, flies, and
other winged creatures make their appearance at the same time.
Hence the insect-eating birds and lizards find a large choice open to
them of easily-obtained food ; there is less occasion to search and
scrutinise, and the persecution of butterflies becomes so much less
strenuous, that the need for a protective disguise loses much of its
urgency. Hence we find that those species of Precis which show so
close a resemblance to dead leaves in the dry season, tend to lose
part or the whole of that resemblance when the rains begin.
But although in the wet season the need for protection grows
less, it does not entirely disappear. We have just recalled the fact
that some species of Precis keep up their cryptic character during
the wet months, though to a diminished extent. But we have still
to account for the extraordinary change m such species as Precis
antilope and P. archexia, where we have the highly cryptic dry-
season phase replaced in the wet season by a form which is not
only not cryptic but is actually conspicuous in a high degree. Now
when we see an insect making no attempt at concealment, but
flaunting, as it were, a conspicuous colour-pattern in the face of all
the world, we frequently find that that insect is disliked and avoided
by some of the usual insect-eating animals. Whether the avoidance
is a matter of instinct, or, as is much more probable in the majority
of cases, the result of unpleasant experience, it is obviously in the
interest of the distasteful insect to advertise its undesirable qualities
as much as possible, as for instance by brilliantly contrasted colours
in conjunction with a slow mode of flight, or a chiMce of resting-
place well open to observation. This is the well-known " warning-
colour " theory of Wallace, a theory which has received much sup-
port not only from the studies of naturalists in the field, but also
from experiments actually conducted upon birds and other animals
in captivity. The suggestion has been made by Professor Poulton,
and there is certainly a great deal to be said in its favour, that the
bright colours of these wet-season forms of Precis are of the nature
of danger-signals, warning enemies that an attack on them would be
