6
unprofitable. The likelihood of this being the true explanation is
increased when we enquire into the habits as well as the colours of
the species in question. Remarkable as is the change of aspect in
passing from one time of year to another, the change of behaviour in
the successive broods is perhaps even more astonishing. Thus in the
case of Precis antilope, Mr. Marshall, who has had great opportuni-
ties of studymg the habits of butterflies of this group in nature,
informs us that " the dry-season form only frequents the bush,
settling on the ground among the dead leaves, or very rarely on
small plants, the underside colouring affording it excellent protec-
tion. As the season advances the habits of the insect change, and
the latter form may be found .... frequenting open tops of
kopjes, flying boldly about within a limited area, and settling with
expanded wings on shrubs and bushes." With regard to P. archesia
he notes that " the dry phase generally frequents the wooded and
the wet phase the open country." The same correspondence of
habit with change of aspect is also observable in the species of
Precis from which we started, viz., P. sesaniKs. Here the underside
of the dry phase, though not specially leat-like, is well adapted for
concealment in shady places. These are the places which it most
affects, and, according to Mr. Marshall, " if alarmed it flies off with
a rapid, and often zigzag flight, settling abruptly among rocks or
herbage, when its greenish-black underside colouring is equally pro-
tective." The wet-season form, on the other hand, says Mr. Trimen,
" frequents open, grassy hills, especially their summit ridges or
highest points, and is very conspicuous, whether flying or settled."
From all this it appears that, speaking generally, not only the
aspect but also the habits of the cryptic dry- season forms are such as
to aid concealment ; while the behaviour of the wet-season forms
seems to court observation, the choice of locality and the mode of
flight being such as to display their conspicuous aspect to the best
advantage. And these last are just the characters which we should
look for in an insect protected by some unpalatable quality, or possibly
itself palatable but depending for its safety on its resemblance to
some unpalatable model. In the latter case the warning feature
would of course be false instead of true, inasmuch as it would give
a deceptive suggestion of a nauseous quality that did not really
belong to it. This leads us straight to the interesting subject of
mimicry, into w^hich I do not propose at this time to enter, further
than to remark that there is good reason to suppose that some of
these wet-season forms have been affected by contact with the great
group of distasteful butterflies known as Acra?as, either in the way
of actual mimicry, or in the way of forming with them an inedible
group making use of a common warning pattern. In the latter case
we should have to suppose that the dry-season phase, notwithstand-
ing its cryptic habit, is also distasteful; for it is very unlikely,
though perhaps not absolutely inconceivable, that the butterfly
should accompany its seasonal change of aspect and habits with a
