corresponding change from nauseousness to palatability. But there
is really no great difficulty here. It is true that provision for con-
cealment generally goes with edible qualities, but there is good
evidence that distasteful forms exist which adopt the cryptic mode
of defence at one time, and the warning, or as Professor Poulton
calls it, the aposematic mode at another. If this is true of the life
of the individual, there can be no reason why it should not also
obtain in the successive phases of the species, and we may therefore,
I think, conclude that as regards these forms of Preih at least, we
have gone some way towards finding the meaning of the seasonal
change. In the wet season, when insect food is plentiful and
enemies are fastidious, it is safe to display warning colours — whether
true or false we need not now enquire — and to push them to the
front. In the dry season, when food is scarce and enemies will eat
almost anything they can get, the best chance is to keep out of their
notice altogether. The contrast between the two forms of defence
is perhaps best seen in Precis archesia, where, as Professor Poulton
has pointed out, the very same feature, viz., the diagonal stripe
from tip to posterior angle, becomes at one time a part of the cryptic
sham by representing the midrib of a dead leaf, and at another time
is developed into tbe most prominent element in a violently con-
spicuous pattern.
Now that we seem to have found a principle which helps us to
understand the seasonal changes in these particular butterflies, let
us see how far it can be made to apply to other cases of the same
phenomenon. There is an interesting genus named Iji/blia, which
for our present purpose may be looked upon as consisting of two
species — IJi/blia ilithijia, which is common to India and Africa, and
Bt/blia (jotzins, which is found in Africa only. Now each of these
butterflies occurs in two distinct phases, so distinct from one
another indeed that, just as in the case of Precis, they were at first
thought to be different species, and received separate specific names.
But from the ascertained facts of the times of their appearance, and
from the very frequent occurrence of the transitional forms, much
more common in these butterflies than in most species of /'(V'('/.s,itwas
soon suspected that the supposed distinct species were merely seasonal
phases of the same butterfly. All possible doubt on the subject was
set at rest by Mr. Marshall, who in each of these butterflies, Bi/blia
ilithijia and lii/blia (jntzins, actually bred specimens of one phase
from eggs laid by a parent belonging to the other phase, thus
supplying the most conclusive possible proof of specific identity. In
these Byblias, it is to the underside that we must look for the chief
differences between the wet and dry-season forms. In each case we
find that the wet-season phase has a variegated appearance, the
ground-colour being tawny and the region of the wings nearest the
body being furnished with an array of small black spots. In the dry
season the ground-colour of the forewings becomes darker, and the
hindwing puts on an entirely different appearance. The wing is
