8
now of a deep chestnut-brown colour, and is crossed by three cream-
coloured stripes. The black spots have almost disappeared ; in
specimens where the dry- season character is extreme, they have
entirely vanished. Now comes the question, can we explain this
remarkable seasonal change on the analogy of Precis .' I think there
is little doubt that we can. Looking at the underside of the dry-
season form, we should at first sight be inclined to think that it
must be conspicuous. But when we find from observation in the
field that the butterfly is accustomed to settle with its wmgs closed
over its back, so as to show the underside, among dried grass
stems, we see that the peculiar striping is really well adapted to aid
concealment. In the wet season the striping is lost altogether in B.
gotziiia, partly so in B. ilithyia. The butterfly now presents a rough
resemblance to some of the small Acraeas, and probably derives some
protection from its likeness to that distasteful group of insects.
That this supposition is not merely imaginary appears likely from
some experiment? made by Mr. Marshall with captive baboons. We
have, therefore, in BU/blia the same kind of alternation as ia Precis,
between the cryptic disguise of the dry season and the warning or
mimetic aspect of the wet.
There are other cases in which the same principle will help us to
an explanation. In many parts of the world the dry soil which is
left exposed after the withering of vegetation is reddish in colour.
It is constantly found that the undersides of butterflies belonging to
certain groups assume in the dry season a reddish hue, which cor-
responds closely with the peculiar character of the soil. The African
white butterflies with purple tips, belonging to the genus Teracolus,
are good instances of this defensive coloration. One of these but-
terflies, settling on the ground and closing its wings over its back,
becomes very difficult to distinguish from its surroundings, as I know
from personal experience in South Africa. In the wet season a few
of these butterflies retain the red-earth suffusion of their under-
surface, but the greater number lose it. It is not always possible to
assign any particular significance to the wet-season aspect of the
insects now referred to; it may be, however, that some of them are
mimics, while others may exhibit what are spoken of as " directive
marks," features, that is, which serve to divert the attacks of enemies
to non-vital parts, and so permit the escape of the butterfly at some
sacrifice of its personal appearance. In all the cases, however, it is
to be observed that the method of cryptic resemblance, which is
probably the most efficacious mode of defence, is the one employed
during the perilous period of the dry season. At other times of the
year, when the struggle is less severe, the protection becomes cor-
respondingly less complete. Another point to be observed is that
the defensive coloration, whether cryptic or mimetic, is mainly con-
centrated on the under-surface, that being the surface which is
exposed when the insect is at rest. This seems to indicate that the
enemies against whose attacks it is most necessary to be provided,
