9
are not so much those which pursue and capture hutterflies on the
wing, as those that track them down and seize them when settled
and at rest.
From all this it appears that we can with a good deal of proba-
bility attribute a significance founded on utility to many of these
instances of seasonal dimorphism. But, as so often happens in
biological enquiry, before we have gone very far we have to recog-
nise that the case is not so simple as it looked at first sight. Let
us consider another instance. The little golden-red copper butterfly,
so familiar an object in our fields and gardens, has several broods in
the course of the year. In a certain part of its range the butterfly
is seasonally dimorphic, the spring brood being of the well-known
golden-red colour, and the subsequent brood or broods, which have
passed through all their stages in the late spring and summer,
showing an intermixture of dark scales which give a difi'erent aspect
to the perfect insect. It is impossible to maintain with any confi-
dence that this change in appearance is of advantage to the species.
We must be content with the knowledge that the dimorphism is in
some way or other dependent on climatic conditions, but at this
point we have to stop. We cannot, with our present knowledge at
any rate, claim the seasonal variation of the copper butterfly as an
adaptation to the varying conditions of its environment ; the alter-
nation between light and dark must be put down as the direct result
of some external influence, probably that of temperature. The same
is very likely the case with other instances of seasonal dimorphism,
those for example which occur in the white butterflies belonging to
the African and Asiatic genus Belenois.
But whether the seasonal changes are adaptive, that is to say
beneficial, or not, there is no doubt that they are determined by the
action of some external condition upon an organism which is so
constituted as to respond to that action in a particular direction. It
is not a case of simple alternation between the two phases, because
we find in many instances that the number of successive broods
belonging to one phase depends upon the character of the particular
season to which that phase belongs. In tiopical countries, for
example, it is often the rule that more generations of a given species
are produced during the rains than during the drought. An excep-
tionally prolonged wet season will give rise to an exceptionally large
number of successive broods, all of the wet-season form. These wet-
season broods will go on being produced until the weather changes,
when they will in due course be replaced by the dry-season phase.
If the species were so constituted as to produce say three wet-season
generations to one dry in regular succession, the change ni the but-
terfly would simply follow the almanack without reference to any
hastening or retarding of the change of season ; but, as we have
seen, the generations of the butterfly tend to be regulated by the
weather, however much this may happen to be out of correspondence
with the usual conditions prevailing at the actual time of year.
