10
Since then the dimorphism we are speaking of is evidently so
completely dependent upon meteorological conditions, it is natural
to enquire whether some of these conditions cannot he artificially
reproduced, and whether we cannot by imitating the change of sea-
son, induce a butterfly which was preparing to emerge in one phase
to adopt the other in its stead. A good many experiments have been
made by different observers with a view to answering this question,
and the results obtained by them are of great interest. An early
worker in this department of research was Dorfmeister, who found
that by subjecting the pupjie of the summer brood of Araschnia
leiana to a lower temperature than they would meet with under
normal conditions, he was able to induce several of the resulting
butterflies to emerge as an intermediate form between levaiia and
prorsa, instead of the ordinary prorm, as they would have done
under natural circumstances. Several experiments of a similar
kind were afterwards made by Weismann in Freiburg and by Stand-
fuss in Zurich, but the most completely successful results with this
species have been obtained by my friend Mr. Merrifield, of Brighton,
a former President of the Entomological Society of London, who is
certainly the greatest authority in this country on the artificial pro-
duction of seasonal variations. Mr. Merrifield finds, as others have
done, that by subjecting the summer pup^e of A. levana to a low
temperature, it is possible in many instances to ensure the emer-
gence of the butterflies as a second generation of levana, instead of
prorsa. But the converse change, that of the normal winter phase
into that of the summer, by applying warmth to pupa?., if possible
at all, is attended with very great difticulty. On the other hand, by
employing the treatment of high or low temperature in the larval
(or caterpillar) instead of in the pupal period, he has succeeded in
the complete conversion of either phase into the other. His experi-
ments shovv conclusively that in this species it is not the pupal, but
the larval stage which is most susceptible to the influence of tem-
perature. x\n interesting difference between the two kinds of con-
version made itself manifest in these investigations. The transfor-
mation of the summer into the winter phase was found to be readily
effected in all except the very last period of larval growth, while the
converse change of the winter phase into the summer was, as a rule,
only brought about when the larvfe were exposed to artificial
warmth from the time of hatching.
In this species, and in others experimented upon by Mr. Merri-
field, there is no doubt that temperature, if not the only, is at any
rate the chief determining factor in the seasonal transformation ; but
there is much reason to think that this is not universally the case.
In tropical countries generally, the most obvious meteorological
difference between the seasons is the alternation between rains and
drought rather than between heat and cold; and it appears from the
combined testimony of many observers, and also to some extent from
actual experiment, that in such regions degrees of dryness or of
