13
the members of the same brood may show great individual differ-
ences in their response to what are to all appearance identical con-
ditions. Thus Mr. Marshall on one occasion reared under precisely
similar conditions the larvae resulting from two eggs laid on the
same day by the same parent butterfly. One of these emerged as
Precis natolensis and the other as Precis sesanuis. The second fact
is that, as we have seen, there is much difference between one species
and another in the period of immature life at which the application
of the requisite stimulus is most effective. In some cases, as has
been conclusively shown by Mr. Mernfield, the application of
artificial warmth during even the last few days of the pupal period
may exert a considerable effect upon the seasonal colouring. Now
it has been observed by more than one naturalist that it is in
generally hot and dry localities, such as Aden, that the various
seasonal forms are most often to be seen on the wing together.
Such regions are liable to occasional heavy rainfalls of a temporary
character, and it is perhaps possible that these sudden interruptions
of the general conditions of aridity may last long enough to
cause those species that happen to be in the specially susceptible
stage to assume the wet-season appearance, though their actual
emergence in the perfect condition may take place during the usual
drought. Other species, not in the sensitive period of their life-
history, may be unaffected by the temporary moisture, and may
show on emergence nothing but the aspect which is ordinarily
associated with the dry season. These considerations are doubtless
not suflBcient to account for all the apparent anomalies that occur,
but they go some way towards suggesting an explanation that may
apply to many of them.
We may now put together what we have learned on the subject
of Seasonal Dimorphism in Butterflies.
(1) We have seen that one and the same kind of butterfly may
appear under aspects so diverse that they have been considered to
belong to entirely different species.
(2) These different phases of the same insect are often found to
appear each at its own time of the year. Thus, in thD case of
Araschnia levana, the levana form appears in the spring, the jirorsa
form in the summer.
(3) Many species of butterfly which produce more than one gener-
ation in the course of the year show this kind of seasonal dimor-
phism. The degree in which the difference is manifested varies
greatly from species to species, every transition being found between
a difference so slight as to be scarcely noticeable, and a diversity so
extreme that nothing short of the breeding of one form from the
other could be accepted as sufficient evidence of their specific
identity.
(4) Seasonal dimorphism is found not only in the butterflies of
temperate regions, where the most obvious difference between the
seasons is one of temperature, but also in those of the tropics, where
