15
Life cycle of Tortrix viridana, L.
By Alfred Sich, F.E.S. Beail Maij 12th, 1915.
The common little green moth, Tortri.v riyidaua, L., is usually
such an abundant insect that entomologists can obtain all specimens
required without the slightest difficulty. No one therefore has pre-
viously had any need to breed this species, much less to rear it from
the egg. Consequently, when in 191-1 some questions were asked as
to its life-history, with the idea of combating its ravages, no definite
answers were forthcoming. It being then the middle of May, and
therefore too late to examine the earlier stages, a number of larvie
and pupae were collected, and from these a supply of ova were sub-
sequently obtained. Fortunately these hatched in the Spring of
1915, before the young larviE appeared in the open, so that the be-
haviour of the captives gave a key to the habits of the larvae in their
natural state. It was then not a great difficulty to find them on
the trees and to discover how they passed the rest of their lives.
The only point still left undiscovered is the position on the tree
where the eggs are laid. There is little doubt, however, that this
must be on the bark of the branches. There was no opportunity ia
1915 of watching the females in the act of ovi position. Such an
opportunity would, of course, settle the matter. Oak is no doubt
the chief foodplant of this species, and for that reason, as well as on
account of the abundance of the insect on this tree, no other kind of
tree was taken into consideration.
In the South of England the moth flies in June. The males may
be seen in numbers on the wing around oaks in the late afternoon.
They soon lose their vivid green colour and become very bleached.
While the males are flying the females may be seen sitting on the
upper surface of the oak leaves. Their more restful habits enable
them to retain their colour for a much longer period. The males
seek the females among the foliage and, judging from captive speci-
mens, it seems probable that the moths remain together for several
hours, and that occasionally a moth of either sex will pair more than
once. In my opinion there is no doubt that the eggs are laid on the
bark of the branches of the oak, but I have not yet succeeded in
finding any eggs of this species in nature. They are not laid on the
leaves nor on the twigs of the first or second year's growth.
The dulness of the newly-hatched larva lends colour to the sug-
gestion that it may have to travel along the dark oak twigs before
