17
thorax and a broad band along the dorsum are dark smoky-grey
with a greenish tinge, the lower portions of the larva are lighter,
with an ochreous tinge. The black tubercular spots are large and
very conspicuous. There are no skin markings whatever. The
caterpillar now turns over a large portion of a leaf, frequently the
whole of one side, parallel with the mid-rib. It is now very active
and, if disturbed, runs with great ease up or down the length of its
gallery, and, if the annoyance continues, will drop out on a thread
of silk. It eats the apex of its own leaf and portions of neighbour-
ing leaves, and in four or five days' time lies up for its last larval
change.
This last usually occupies about forty-eight hours. After the
change the larva may have a black or a brown head ; the prothoracic
shield is ochreous and divided down the centre by a pale line ; the
body is of similar colour to that of the larva when in the fourth
stage but still darker. The larva at this period, the commencement
of the fifth stage, is darker than at any other time, but after a day
or two, as it begins to increase in size, so it gradually loses its
depth of colour until finally, just when fully grown, it becomes very
pale green. The black tubercular spots, however, remain strikingly
conspicuous. The larva measures about 18mm. and is quite stout.
It hides itself by day in a dwelling made by folding- over a lobe or
the whole apex of a leaf and fastening this with silken thread to the
portion adjoining. Occasionally the caterpillars will live between
two leaves spun together, but I have never found T. viridana larvae
in rolled leaves. I have found a great many leaves on oaks rolled
up from the apex at right angles to the mid-rib, but these invariably
contauied the larva of Cacoecia xylosteana. The larva remains in
the fifth stage for seven or eight days, and it is during this period
that most of the damage is done to the oak leaves. The larva
reaches this stage about the third week in May, when the leaves are
green and still tender, but of nearly their normal size. The apical
portions of the leaves are especially attacked and all but the mid-rib
and the stouter lateral ribs are eaten. Less advanced leaves often
found on the terminal shoots at this time are entirely consumed.
When full-grown the larva, which has now become quite plump,
prepares for the pupal change. In most cases it secretes itself in
its last dwelling, but when the foliage has been too severely damaged
to afford shelter the caterpillars will move to any neighbouring
plant and spin up in leaves even of a kind on which they would
probably not have fed. The white silken cocoons vary in toughness,
some larvffi being content with a slight lining to their dwellings,
while others use a much greater quantity of silk.
The pupa remains in the cocoon from two to three weeks. When
the moth is ready for emergence the pupa case is thrust through the
cocoon, usually as far as the fourth or fifth abdominal segment, and
the moth, after freeing itself from the case, clings to it or to the
leaf while it expands its wings. When this operation is complete,
