18
the moth usually crawls to the underside of a leaf and settles down
with the wings covering the body in a flat roof-like manner.
Such is the life cycle of this little moth when all goes well with
it, but like every living being, it has its enemies and its misfortunes.
The young larva; are sometimes killed by Hemiptera which, gaining
access to their dwellings, pierce their delicate skins and suck their
juices. The larva of a hymenopterous parasite, which Mr. Morley
has kindly identified as Piwpla maculata, Fab., destroys many. It
lives in the bodies of the larvse and pup«, making its escape when
perfect by biting off the top of the pupa shell. Sometimes the larva
fails in the attempt to change its skin and death ensues. It appears
also that very wet weather is often fatal to larvae.
In captivity the female will pair the same day that she emerges
from the pupa, and will commence laying ova a few hours after
pairing. The first ova observed in 1914 were laid on June 5th at
the junction of the side and the glass top of the box in which the
moths were confined. They were placed in pairs, one partly over-
lapping the other, and both were covered with gum and hidden
beneath a mass of scales from the extremity of the moth's body.
This mass of gum and scales terminated in a point above the ova
and I witnessed the moth raising and depressing her abdomen
repeatedly and drawing out the gum to a point. These cones, con-
sisting of two ova, gum and scales, were constructed by many of
the females, and it therefore seems probable that this method of
oviposition is the one usually adopted.
Some moths after forming a few cones commenced to lay eggs in
small groups in the manner usually followed by other species of the
Tortricina. A few females laid all their eggs in groups. In both
cases the ova were concealed by scales and debris. In one cage
sprays of oak leaves with twigs of the first and second year were
placed, and also one much older piece of branch with rough bark,
the last was the only portion to receive ova though many were
deposited on the muslin sleeve as is usual when moths are confined
in similar cages.
Ovum pale yellow when first laid, afterwards becoming orange-brown, more
or less circular in outline, very much flattened above and below. Wben first
laid more like a circular tablet than a tcale. It measures about 0-74mm. in
diameter. The surface sculpture consists of impressions like those made on
hammered copper, but in most of the ova examined these marks were entirely
obliterated by the impressions caused by the adhering scales from the moth.
The oval stage lasts from nine to ten months.
It may be useful to give a few details of the larva in its different
stages. It is an ordinary caterpillar with three pairs of true legs,
four pairs of abdominal prolegs, and a pair of posterior prolegs or
claspers. In its first three stages it is rather slender, becoming
stout in the two remaining stages. The measurements of the width
of the head are given (in millimetres), as by the aid of these the
stages of the larva can be ascertained. The heads of any stage
vary slightly in width, but within certain limits, so that the largest
