19
head of the first stage could not well be mistaken for the smallest
head in the next stage, and so on.
1st Stage. — Head black, width 0-28mm. Collar of prothorax grey. Pro-
thoracic shield brown, body pale greyish-ochreous, with a dark internal band
visible dorsally and ventraliy. The newly-hatched larva is rather short and
broad, without the dark band and thickly covered with strong spicules. After
feeding a day or two it becomes more slender, paler in colour, and the spicules,
though of course, present, are less noticeable as the skin is not now so con-
tracted as it is before the larva has fed. Length ISmm.
2nd Stage. — Head black, width 0-42mm. The larva in this stage is like the
feeding larva of the 1st stage except that it is of course larger and the prothor-
acic shield is blafk. The tubeicular spots are still inconspicuous.
3rd Sta^'e. — Head black, width 0-65mm. In colour and form the larva is
much like those of the two preceding stages, but the tubercles are now distinctly
visible and the larva decidedly shows greater activity.
4th Stage. — Head black, width 0-96. Shield black, collar of prothorax grey.
Thoracic segments and a broad band along the body dark smoky grey with a
green tinge, lower parts of the body with an ochreous tint, and paler in colour.
Tubercles black, very conspicuous. Length 7mm.
5th Stage. — Width of head ITmm. When newly changed the larva is dark
grey and much like that of the 4th instar, but the shield is divided longitudin-
ally down the centre by a pale line. In all the previous stages the shield is
undivided. As the larva grows it becomes pale green, the dorsum being a grey
green, while the lateral portions are more of a yellowish or lighter green. The
black tubercular spots are large and conspicuous, especially on the back of the
larva and the dark line of the pulsating vessel is now clearly visible. The
colour of the head of the male larva is usually, if not always, black, but in
the female the head may be black, brown clouded with black, or simply brown.
The prothoracic shield is ochreous divided down the centre by a pale line with
usually a dark spot on each side of the line at the posterior border of the
shield. The thoracic legs are black marked, while the prolegs and claspers are
pale green with brown booklets. The skin of the larva is thickly covered with
rather long spicules which may easily be seen under a lens. There is nothing
especial about the position of the black tubercular plates. As usual I, II and
III are nearly in line on the meso- and meta-thorax, and these have each two
hairs or setae. On the abdominal segments II lies behind I, and HI above the
spiracle (which is not conspicuous), these only have one seta. IV and V almost
on the same plate are situated on the lateral fold which runs along the body of
larva. VI is present above the proleg, while VII below it is formed of a group
of three small tubercles. VHI is very small and lies on the ventral side of the
proleg. On the ninth abdominal segment most of the tubercles have again
two setie. while one of them has three. The anal shield is usually only slightly
darker than the ground colour. The .skin of the larva is sufficiently transparent
to admit of portions of the spiracular tubes to be seen. There is an anal comb
with eight teeth. The larva varies somewhat in ground colour, some specimens
being of a very pale grey with scarcely a tinge of green, and in these specimens
the tubercular plates are brown and less conspicuous.
The moths bred from the pale larvte were all females. The larva
of Tortrix loetii)i(iiana is exceedingly like that of T. viridana, but it
is smaller and more ochreous posteriorly.
The pupa varies in coloration. It is perhaps most often entirely
black. Sometimes, while the wing- and other limb-cases remain
black, the abdomen may be dark brown. Frequently the pupa is
absolutely brown. This variation of colour is not aflected by the
sex of the pupa. The cremaster is very short and blunt. To this
is attached the cable of silk which prevents the pupa dropping out
of the cocoon when the moth emerges.
