23
As Buckfcon's evidence concerning the parentage of this dimorph
appears to be limited to (i) the accounts of others as enumerated
above, (ii) his personal observations on dissection of one apterous
female, it may be of interest to record the following observations : —
In June of last year (1914) I segregated two of the black apterous
forms with a small piece of sycamore leaf, each in a separate tube.
The following day two or three of the young dimorphic forms
were present, but as the tube had contained the shreds of leaf this
evidence was not sufficiently conclusive.
I therefore removed the black females each to a clean empty tube
at 10 p.m., on Sunday, June 21st. On the following Monday
mornmg, at 8.80, I examined the tubes just in time to see a green
larva being expelled by the female.
I was not at leisure to remain at this critical moment, but on my
return at mid-day the VeriphyllHn (or dimorphic) form was there
fully developed. The following day, Tuesday, at 8.17 p.m., I had
the pleasure of seeing the same black female in the act of bringing
forth another green larva, the whole of which, except the head, had
been extruded.
The margins of the body were folded downwards, so that a trans-
verse section of the abdomen would have exhibited a curve nearly
semicircular.
There was nothing to be seen from above of legs, antennae, or
any of the peripheral leaflets.
By 8.26 three of the folioles were perceptible. A minute later
the antennas were free.
At 8.28 all the abdominal folioles could be discerned ; the legs
appeared and were in motion.
There was al.-o a slight extension of some organ from the anal
region, and the whole of the body was flattening out.
By 8.34 the head was liberated and the birth was complete.
The mother immediately walked away, leaving her extraordinary
offspring to its fate.
At 8 p.m. on the following Thursday the same tube contained
eight young, all of them of the pseudomorphic variety.
The other isolated female also produced several larvje of the
same kind.
The problem relating to the use to the species of this abnormal
larva, which, so far as seems to be known at present, performs no
other function than thiit of feeding, remains unsolved.
It is, however, difficult to believe that nature should produce, in
such abundance, a creature that completes its existence without
being of any service whatever to its kind.
The following are notes on some observations made subsequently
to the reading of the Paper: —
(1) On June 24th Mr. W. West, of Ashtead, kindly furnished me
with some leaves of Acer negundo (Box-elder).
