27
yellowish-brown as well as the legs, the mouth parts, however, are
dark brown. The mandibles are furnished with several teeth. The
thorax is dirty white. The abdomen is of a slate colour except the
first and last segments, which are, like the thorax, dirty white. The
dorsal vessel can be easily distinguished. It can be noticed that it
widens out eight times, showing the presence of eight chambers
connected by narrower tubes.
A rather interesting peculiarity can be observed on the second
and third pairs of legs. The middle pair are longer than the
anterior legs, and near the base of each is a flat rugose surface
directed backwards and somewhat to the outside. The posterior
pair are very small (smaller than the first) and in each the side of
the penultimate segments directed towards the rugose surface is
toothed. The larva produces a distinct stridulation by rubbing the
teeth of the third pair against the rough surface on the second pair
of legs. The vibration is very noticeable when an adult larva, or
even the cell containing one, is held in the hand. This i-s quite
startling when first experienced, and one feels nearly the same
sensation as if one gets an electric current from a small coil through
the hand. For what these stridulations are used I could not tell,
but I suppose they serve as defence against enemies or strange
insects penetrating the mass.
When the time for pupation arrives, the larva gets rid of all its
undigested food and uses it to plaster the walls surrounding itself.
The walls consist of unconsumed food and are at first in a very
rough state, but are made quite firm and smooth, and the cavity is
reduced in size to form the pupating cell.
^Yhen the cell is prepared, the larva lies on its back and the
abdomen becomes shorter and much broader. It then awaits
pupation. The undigested food is kept all the way through and is
always used to plaster the final cell. When, however, the wall of
the cavity in which the larva is feeding becomes injured or broken,
the larva at once starts to repair this. Excreting some undigested
food, it puts this on the border of the hole, and, taking some
mouthfuls of food, mixes the whole up and thus obtains a rather
moist mass with which it gradually closes the hole. Soon the
moisture is absorbed by the other food and the new part becomes
fairly hard.
When the pupa is just formed, it looks very pretty. It is then
quite white. The lateral borders and disc of pronotum, as well as
each abdominal segment, are covered with short brown bristles.
The abdominal segment is furnished with two fleshy organs, a few
mm. long, and directed laterally backwards. After remaining four
to five weeks in the pupal state the perfect insect emerges from the
pupal skin in September. A few days before the emergence of the
beetle, the head, disc of pronotum, legs, and last abdominal seg-
ment begin to darken and, some time later, the whole pronotum, as
well as the above-named parts, become almost black. The beetle,
