28
at the time of disclosure, lies on its back and moves continuously
the legs and abdomen. The skin splits just behind the head and
slips over this towards the mouth and goes backwards over the
ventral part. As the skin comes along it carries with it the white,
silverlike lining of the trachese. When the beetle is completely
free from the skin, it turns over on its ventral side and lifts up the
elytra, which, together with the abdomen and underside of thorax,
are completely white. Then slowly it stretches out simultaneously
the two wings. After a couple of hours the white parts, except the
membranes knitting the abdominal segments, become darker, and
after five oi* six hours are all black with metallic reflection, except
the second pair of wings, which are brownish and transparent, and
are folded away below the elytra. The beetle is very shiny and
looks as if wet, but after a while this lustre disappears and the beetle
becomes duller. When coming to the surface the beetle does not
always use the original tube made by the parent to take the food
down, but works itself up displacing behind it the remaining food
and the earth through which it passes.
The beetle is of a dark blue-black colour with metallic reflection,
especially on the undersides. The female is, on an average, slightly
larger than the male, but the difference is only very slight. The
male can be distinguished from the female in having on the posterior
trochanters and femora two equally sized teeth, while the female has
none. Both sexes are able to produce a rather distinct noise by
rubbing the abdomen against the hind femora.
When the perfect beetle has emerged at the end of the summer
it comes to the surface for feeding purposes, afterwards it digs a
tube in which it will pass the winter. In the following spring it
conies again to the surface and starts egg-laying.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE V.
Metamorphoses of Geotrupes stercorarius, L. (all natural size)
1. Egg in food mass.
2. Yonng larva just hatched, and empty egg-skin.
3. Full-grown larva in pupation chamber.
4. Larva in pupation chamber awaiting pupation.
5. Pupa just after disclosure.
6. Pupa just before liberation of the beetle.
