29
British Cockroaches.
By W. J. Lucas, B.A., F.E.S. Bead October 28th, 1915.
By referring to previous volumes of Proceedings it will be found
that I have already read short papers on three of the subdivisions of
the Orthoptera— the Forficulodea (earwigs) in 1912, the Acridiodea
(short-horned grasshoppers) in 1913, and the Locustodea (long-
horned grasshoppers) in 19U. In this paper I propose to review
the Blattodea (cockroaches).
On November 8th, 1900, a correspondent of the " Daily Mail "
said that "English kitchens breed dyspepsia, melancholia, influenza,
and family jars." In the evening the " Globe" added, "they also
breed blackbeetles."
Blackbeetles ! As we have so often been told, this, the common
name of these insects, is not a happy one, since they are neither
black nor beetles. Another popular name— cockroach— seems
scarcely more appropriate, since the creatures bearing it have no
connection with either fowl or fish. The second name appears to be
derived from the Spanish word " cucaracha " '•=; but if this means
a " little berry," the fitness of the term again is not very apparent.
Two colloquial names attached to an insect proclaim it a familiar
one; and it would seem that to the cockroaches the well-known
proverb may with justice be applied, which says that "familiarity
breeds contempt "—possibly even a stronger feeling still ! No doubt
few besides a limited number of entomologists have given close
attention to these insects, and we may therefore with advantage
spend a few moments in considering the British representatives of
the Blattodea, as this sub-order of the Orthoptera has been named.
It is customary to divide the Orthoptera into seven groups, or
sub-orders : —
1. Forficulodea (earwigs, etc.).
2. Blattodea (cockroaches).
3. Mantodea (praying insects).
4. Phasinodea (stick insects).
5. Gryllodea (crickets).
6. LocHstddea (long-hoined grasshoppers).
7. Acridiodea (short-horned grasshoppers).
• Cucaracha, however, means " woodlousc " also, and a curled-up woodlouse
would not be eo very unlike a cockroach ootheca.
