80
We may define the Blattodea as : —
Orthoptera with all the leya wore or less alike ; the lar</e and free
coxa; entirely covering the ve)itral surface of the thorax and the base of
the abdomen ; tarsi of five segments. Head, in repose, bent under the
thorax, so that the fore-part jwints backward ; antenna; long and slender
(there being often nearly a hundred segments). Pronotuin shield-like,
frequently quite concealing the head. Wings with the anal region
capable of fan-like folding (but the alar organs are variable and some-
times entirely absent). Cerci, variable in size and shape, present in
both sexes ; a pair of slender styles also usually present in the male.
Twelve families are comprised within the sub-order Blattodea : —
W.B.- 1. EctobiidfB.
W.B. 2. Phyllodromiidffi.
3. Nyctiboridfe.
4. Epilampridffi.
W.B. 5. Beriplanetidae.
W.B. 6. Panchlorid^.
7. Blaberidte.
W. 8. Corydidfe.
9. Oxyhaloidas.
10. Perisphieriidffi.
11. PanesthiidjB.
12. Geoscapheusidse.
But five of these families are represented in western Europe. Of
these, four contain species that are found to breed in Britain,
though but one — Ectobiida — contains indigenous British insects.
No striking resemblance is borne by the typical cockroach to any
other insect. Perhaps its next of kin — amongst the Forficulodea —
approaches it most nearly in appearance ; but even between these
the resemblance is not very great. The point about a cockroach
that first engages attention is its extreme flatness, that is to say the
narrow space that separates the dorsal from the ventral surface.
This feature enables it easily to hide away in a narrow crevice
during daylight, or should it be disturbed in the course of its mid-
night revels.
Another point is the well-developed pronotum, which, besides
often affording the means of differentiating species, serves as an
efficient protection for head and thorax, just as the elytra, when
present, are calculated to perform that office for the abdomen.
In ordinary circumstances the head is bent under the pronotum, so
that the front of the face is turned downward. Though the head
is usually hidden thus beneath the pronotum and inclined face
downward, it can be turned upward and outward, till the mouth-
parts project considerably forward. Two small areas close to the
eyes and to the insertion of the antennae, of a paler colour than the
* W = represented in Western Europe; B = represented in the British Isles.
