31
parts around, and frequently membranous in structure, are called
fenestrae. In the males of some species they are replaced by ocelli.
On glancing at the ventral surface we are at once confronted with
two other striking points in cockroach anatomy — the enormous
development of the coxae of all the legs, and the spiny armament of
the tibiae.
In recent cockroaches the elytra and wings differ considerably in
both shape and texture. Amongst the various species, too, there is
much diversit}' in their length compared with that of the abdomen,
being longer in some, abbreviated in others, while from some species
they are absent altogether. In some cases the wings are less fully
developed than the elytra, while the length of these appendages may
be different in the two sexes. It might seem that here we have a
ready means of grouping the various genera and species, but in
practice it is found that the relative development of the alar organs
is of slight nnportance, as indeed is the case throughout the
Orthoptera.
Of the elytra the principal nervures, omitting the costa, are four
in number, being named in order from the costal margin : —
(a) the mediastinal ;
{b) the radial or scapular ;
(c) the median or ulnar (which sometimes is in duplicate, the
two being called the anterior and posterior medians) ;
{(I) the dividing nervure.
Tiie areas thus formed are : —
(«) the mediastinal, above the nervure of the same name ;
(b) the radial or scapular ;
{c) the median ;
{(I) the anal or axillary.
Being very variable and sometimes abbreviated, the median
nervure is looked upon as unimportant, and consequently the
whole of the area between the radial and dividing nervures is called
the median. In the wing the prmcipal nervures hold the same
relative positions ; but between the radial and the ulnar there is
sometimes a prominent nervure called the " spurious " ; the anal
area, moreover, which at rest is folded longitudinally like a fan,
often occupies more than haU' the wing and is much more delicate
in structure than the anterior part, which in texture resembles to a
great extent the elytron. Wings and elytra are both well filled
with branches of the several nervures. It should be noticed that
when the alar organs are folded there is no mid-dorsal suture, but
the left elytron overlaps tbe light.
In each sex there appear to be ten abdominal segments, besides a
couple of " podical plates " lying one on each side of the anus,
which, according to Huxley, may represent the dorsal part of an
eleventh. The first segment is rudimentary, especially the ventral
plate. In the female the 8th and 9th segments are visible only
when the abdomen is distended. In the same sex the ventral plate
