32
of the 7th segment is of large size, and in the hinder part boat-
shaped to assist in the discharge of the ootheca ; the 10th segment
is notched behind. The ventral plate of the seventh segment is
called the lamina srih(/enitalis ; in the male the ventral plate of the
9th segment goes by the same name, the dorsal plate of the same
segment being called the lamina aupra-analis.
From beneath the edges of the 10th segment in both sexes spring
the cerci, which vary in length and shape, and are usually jointed, the
number of segments in Blatta orientaUii and Periplaneta auairalasicB
being sixteen. Seeing that these appendages are supplied with
large nerves, it would seem that they are not merely ornamental ;
perhaps they act as posterior antennae. They often seem to vary in
development almost in direct proportion to that of the alar organs,
being apparently absent in many wingless forms, though search
will reveal them as small plates.
Besides the cerci the males, in some species, have projecting from
the lamina suhi/enitalis, two styles. These are absent from the adult
females, though they are present in the nymphs. Perhaps they are
homologues of the true legs, and if so constitute one more point
tending to demonstrate how old, as a family, the cockroaches are.
Occasionally a female may be observed with a horny purse- like
capsule protruding from the hinder end of her abdomen. This is
the ootheca or egg-case. It is formed inside the body of the female,
and in Blatta orientalis contains sixteen eggs in two rows of eight.
Till that number is complete the case is carried about, and then
after a time — some days may-be — it is deposited. In one exotic
species the case appears to be wanting, and it is possible that cock-
roaches of the past had it not, for Brogniart credits some with an
exserted ovipositor.
When newly hatched the young are white with black eyes ; but
they soon assume their proper colour. They closely resemble the
adults except for the absence of wings. Post-embryonic develop-
ment is slight — another sign of the antiquity of the cockroach
group. At from the fifth to the seventh ecdysis (the number is
doubtful) the nymph becomes an imago, and in the winged species
the organs of flight appear. How long an individual cockroach
may live is uncertain, but it is supposed that the term of its
existence may under favourable circumstances extend to five years.
Cockroaches will eat almost anything — even their own dead
bodies, or at any rate those of their companions — but as Miall says,
"cucumber disagrees with them horribly," and luckily so do phos-
phorus-paste and some other insecticides. It must, however, be
borne in mind that the cockroach has its place in nature. It is an
effective scavenger and so far must be looked upon as a useful
insect, and no doubt would be so regarded could we but conquer our
rooted dislike to it, and the cockroach get rid of its unpleasant
odour. Cockroaches are lovers of warmth and are really numerous
