33
only in tropical regions. British cockroaches, too, lack the beautiful
colours sometimes found in foreign species.
In the Silurian sandstone of Cavaldos, in France, the late M.
Brogniart found a fossil, which he considered to be part of an
elytron of a cockroach, and named it Pahroblattina doui-illti. Brauer,
however, thinks it more probably belongs to an msect like the mole-
cricket, while Sharp inclines to the opinion that it does not belong
to the Insecta at all. If there were no doubt concerning the iden-
tification this fragment would represent the oldest insect known.
It is in the Carboniferous period of Paljeozoic times that cock-
roaches first appear with certainty upon the scene — or rather, that
evidences of them first appear, which is probably a very different
matter. The coal-measures of Great Britain, Belgium and Ger-
many, and the coal-measures and mill-stone grit of America, have
supphed a great number of cockroaches, which group of insects
appears to have been more numerously represented and more
generally distributed than any other at this period, which in fact
has been called the " Age of Cockroaches." The Permian period,
has produced but few insects, though amongst them are several
specimens of the Blattodea; but apparently none have come to light
in this country.
Passing to Mesozoic times the Triassic rocks of America have
produced a number of specimens of the Blattodea, but this is not
the case in Europe. In the Lias fossil insects are numerous, and
specimens of those w^e are considering are represented both in
Britain and on the Continent. The Purbeck beds of the Upper
Oolite have preserved several species, but they appear to be absent
from the Cretaceous formations, as we should expect, seeing that a
large proportion of these rocks are of marine origin and were
deposited in deep water.
In Cainozoic times the Eocene period does not seem to have
produced fossil cockroaches in Britam, but perhaps the conditions,
under which the formations during the period were deposited, were
not favourable to their preservation.
The rest of the Tertiary formations are absent from, or not well
represented in Britain ; but the Blattodea have left some remains in
Miocene strata en the Continent, and a few have been preserved in
amber, In the Post- tertiary period fossil insects are rare, except
Coleoptera, to which order all must perhaps be referred.
Judging by the wings, from which almost entirely our knowledge
of fossil cockroaches is derived, these insects are found to bear a
close general resemblance to recent forms. They, however, present
three important differences. First, the elytra and wings were
similar in appearance and transparent ; second, the same number
of nervures was developed in both, whereas in recent forms they are
reduced in number in the elytra ; third, the arrangement of the
nervures in the anal area was different. The wings rather than
the elytra of recent cockroaches preserve more closely the appearance
