34
of both wings and elytra of fossil forms. Since Palaeozoic times
cockroaches appear to have decreased in numbers greatly, if not so
much in size, and they must now be looked upon as but a dwindling
remnant of a dying race. Let the careful houseAvife find in this
fact what consolation she may, and at any rate rejoice that she does
not live in the Carboniferous period and have to combat the hosts
of cockroaches that luxuriated in the warm moist climate of that
far distant age.
Artifical Key to British Blattodea.
A. Indigenous ; living under natural conditions ;
small.
(a) Pronotum dark, with pale margins . .
(&) Pronotum pale, with dark markings on
disc ; very small
(c) Pronotum pale, with a few dark dots . .
B. Naturalised; living under artificial conditions ;
larger.
(a) Dark ; wings rudimentary in female,
truncated in male
(6) Wings developed in both sexes.
1. Grey-brown ; two dark lines on
pronotum ; rather small species
2. Sienna-brown ; pronotum nearly
concolorous ; large species
3. Sienna-brown ; pronotum with
yellow margin ; mediastinal area
yellow ; large species . .
4. Very dark; pronotum chiefly
black ; size moderate . .
If we were to admit to the British list all the cockroaches which
under any circumstances have occurred here, the number of species
would be quite considerable. It would be necessary to group them
in three categories : —
{a) Three natives, that is, undoubtedly indigenous species.
{b) Five naturalised aliens, which seem now to be thoroughly
established and to breed here, though not under natural conditions.
(c) Casual visitors — a fair number, which should not, however,
appear on our list, and which therefore I shall do little more than
mention.
In the first group are three insects only : — Ectobius lapponicus,
Linn. ; E. pameri, Steph., and E. i>erspicillaris, Fuessly. All live
out of doors, on bushes, amongst herbage, and in similar situations.
They are small, active insects, very delicate in structure, and with
nothing at all repulsive in their appearance.
Ectobius lapponicus, Linn., though the largest of native
British cockroaches, measures but 20mm. in wing-expanse in the
male, the female is smaller still. Its darker colour separates it from
E. perspicillaris, which is of nearly the same size, while its larger
* Approximate length from front of head in resting position to tip of
abdomen.
*10mm.
E.
lapponicus.
8mm.
9-5mm.
E.
E.
panzer i.
perspicillaris.
14mm.
B.
orientalis.
13mm.
B.
germanica.
33mm.
P.
americana.
26mm.
P.
australasice.
18mm.
L.
surijiamensis.
