35
proportions distinguish it from K. panzeri. It is important to note
that the pronotum is black, or at least very dark, with the hiteral
margins pale and transparent. In the male the elytra and wings
are fully developed, but in the female the former are truncate and
the latter rudimentary. To obtain specimens perhaps the best
method is to sweep nettles, heather, low bushes, and the long grass
of rides in woods, to beat larger bushes and some trees, or to search
under moss and dried leaves. It often comes to sugar and occa-
sionally may be seen on the wing. It appears to he mature from
May till September, but perhaps is met with most frequently in
June and ^n\y. In Lapland it lives indoors and, according to
LinnjBus, consumes the dried fish of the inhabitants. K. lapjionicus
is common and widely distributed over central and northern Europe ;
but it is seldom found in the south, and then onl^^ at some eleva-
tion. In England it seems to be confined to the south and south-
east. It has been taken in several localities, in Surrey — Oxshott,
Albury, Gomshall, Horsley, Byfleet, Dorking, Haslemere, Devil's
Punch Bowl, Penslake, and Ockham Common. A few localities in
Sussex — Slindon, Wood Eartham, Dane Wood and Cocking — have
been reported. It is often taken in the New Forest, and is recorded
for Hants also in Pamber Forest and Parkhurst Forest in the Isle
of Wight. Sunning Hill (Berks), Epping Forest (Essex), Exeter
(vaults of City Bank), and Aldermaston (Devon) are all the remain-
ing records that have come to hand.
Ectobius perspicillaris, Fuessly, is of about the same size as
the last species, but is of a general pale straw-colour. The pronotum
is of a reddish tinge ; the disc has a few dark dots, and the margins
are clear. In both sexes the elytra extend beyond the tip of the
abdomen. The insect has a more southern range than E. lap-
ponicus, being not very common in the northern part of Europe.
It is widely distributed in the centre and south, however, and
reaches to Algeria. There are very few certain records for Eng-
land : — Box-hill, Woking, Reigate, and Mickleham (Surrey); near
Tunbridge Wells and Faversham (Kent); Hastings, Slindon, Charl-
ton Forest, and Bognor (Sussex). Other localities that have been
mentioned are : — Devon, New Forest, Darenth Wood, and Birch
Wood (Stephens), Ruislip, Bournemouth, Lulworth Cove, Co. Down.
Luff says it is common in Guernsey and Alderney.
Ectobius panzeri, Steph., is the smallest of British cockroaches,
the distance across the expanded wings being only 12mm. On the
pronotum are some scattered dark markings, which are arranged
somewhat in the form of two longitudinal lines. The elytra and
wings are fully developed in the male, but in the female they are
much abbreviated and quite useless as organs of flight. With us K.
panzeri is usually a somewhat dark insect, some specimens, how-
ever, being much darker than others, especially in the legs.
Stephens described this very dark form as a distinct species, under
the name of nigripes. The fact is, however, that the insect becomes
