36
darker the farther north it is found. English specimens may belong
to either form, but apparently the majority are distinctly dark. In
England the species is found along the south from Tresco, in Sicily,
to Kent and even Sufiblk. Its favourite haunt seems to be under
rubbish amongst sandhills, or on a sandy shore. It is not, how-
ever, confined to the coast, for it occurs rather frequently on the
New Forest heaths. It comes to sugar at times. At present, E.
panzeri vecovds ave as follows : — Cornwall: Tresco, Lelant, Lizard,
Kynance Cove. Devon: Kingsbridge, Plymouth, Wenibury, White-
sand Bay, Exmouth, Berry Head, Tregantle, Dawlish, Slapton.
Dorset: Lulworth Cove, St. Alban's Head, Studland, Portland,
Chesil Beach, Glanvilles Wootton. Hants; Bournemouth, Bos-
combe, Christchurch, Hayling Island, New Forest, Blackgang Chine,
St. Catherine's Point, Compton Bay, Alum Bay, Yarmouth. Stisse,c :
Camber Sands. Kent: Deal, Sandwich, Sunny Carvet. Snfolk;
Lowestoft, Felixstowe, Gorton. Luff records the species from
Guernsey and Alderney. Its total range appears to be confined to
the western part of the Pal^arctic region — England, Channel
Islands, Belgium, France, Spain, Switzerland, and less frequently
Germany and Dalmatia, beyond which it does not seem to have
been recorded.
We now pass to five insects, which, though not natives, are
established in these islands, and breed here regularly but never out
of doors — they all require naturally a warmer climate than our
own. They have been spread through the influence of trade till
they have become cosmopolitan.
Blatella germanica, Linn., is a rather small insect— at first
sight not unlike an Ectuhius. It may, however, be easily dis-
tinguished from a member of that genus by the lack of the " apical
area " at the tip of the wings. The pronotum bears two longi-
tudinal very dark lines dilated at the base. Popular opinion in
France and Kussia points to Germany as the home of this cock-
roach, a belief which Linnseus has stereotyped in its specific name.
In Germany, however, it is called " Russen." It lives in woods in
central Europe— in Russia and Germany— while in the latter country
it dwells in houses as well, as it does also in France. B. (jerriianica
is said to have been imported into England by the soldiers return-
ing from the Crimea in 1857 ; but it was numerous in parts of the
British Isles before that date. It is now found in large numbers in
the Zoological Gardens, in warehouses at Bradford, in houses at
Bognor, in restaurants and hotels in London, Hastings, Folkestone,
etc., and in other places. At Aldershot, it is said, these cockroaches
go by the name of " shiners," Avhich term is quite appropriate. B.
yermanica has a wide distribution : Britain, France, Spain, Ger-
many, Austria, Italy, Russia, Algeria, Siberia, Japan, North America,
Mexico, Guinea, Ceylon, Chili, Martinque, Jamaica.
Blatta orientalis, Linn., there should be no need to describe.
In neither sex are the alar organs fully developed. In the mature
