41
Limacology.
By Alfred Sich, F.E.S. {Member of the Coiicholof/ical Society of
Great Britain and Ireland). Read November Wtli, 1915.
Slugs belong to the Phylum Mollusca and, I think, that is all I
am going to say about the place they occupy in the scheme of
nature which man, the scientific animal, has propounded. If we
wish to study slugs we can go out into the garden, a space often
rich in various forms of land mollusca, in spite of the care we take
to exterminate them. The fields, lanes, woods, and hill sides, as
well as river banks, are also profitable hunting grounds. By turn-
ing over stones, logs of wood, dead leaves in damp places, and by
various other methods, which each ingenious limacologist or slug-
hunter will invent for himself, we can find, take home and get well
acquainted with several species. Then we shall wish to know more
about them, to talk about them to others and possibly even to write
about them. When we have arrived at this stage it is opportune to
think about books, for we shall desire to know what the other slug-
hunters call that small grey one, that solid black one, or that long
yellow one, that we have become so well acquainted with.
Some years ago, when I reached this stage, it was no easy matter
to find a book that would give the desired information, as some of
our species were little known and there was great confusion of
names, even in our own country. Now the condition of things has
certainly improved, for all our known species are firmly established
and there is a tacit agreement in the use of names. For the benefit
of those who know nothing of slugs or snails I will mention two
modern hooks, which have been of the greatest use, and I am very
much indebted to the authors of them. Mr. Lionel E. Adams has
written the " Collector's Manual," a book convenient to take on a
holiday and containing an excellent account of our land and fresh-
water mollusca, especially the slugs. The other is the volume on
slugs in Mr. John W. Taylor's " Monograph." Here we have
beautiful coloured figures of all the species, and maps showing their
distribution, together with full details of the anatomy, habits and
varieties of our slugs. Armed with these two books the tyro slug-
hunter will be able to increase his knowledge to a wide extent. It
is in the books that we can find the family, sub-family, etc., to
which our various slugs belong. The slug itself does not know in
the least whether it belongs to the cattle on account of its horns, or
