42
to the serpents by reason of its mode of progression, and if it should
know I do not think it would care one jot. What the slug does
care about is the newly planted lettuce, the seedling aster, or that
nice fungus in the wood. In the popular idea the slug is a loath-
some creature, without beauty, without intelligence, but of exceed-
ingly lazy habits and great keenness of appetite. Like many popular
notions and many scientific theories, parts of this idea are wrong.
The slug has a healthy appetite, its progress is slow, but it has great
intelligence and certainly distinct claims to beauty. When we lift
up a stone off the rock garden, or move a log of wood which has
been lying on the ground for some time, we may see some slugs
beneath. They will of course be resting, and, if we are curious, we
try to make them move, and after a time they slowly creep oft", and
we think what dull animals they are, but we forget that we have
come upon them suddenly in their sleep. One day I brought in
four specimens of Avion circniiDicriptiis from the garden and put
them in a saucer with a little water. They soon began gliding all
over the saucer, and I had some difficulty in keeping them off the
table. Their motions were really quite graceful. One of these I
made crawl up and down an artist's paint brush handle. After a
time it got tired of its promenade and suddenly let itself down by a
thread of slime on to the table, just as a lepidopterous larva would
do on its silken thread. This habit of escaping from uncomfortable
positions by means of a mucous thread is common to most slugs.
For the larger species we require a soup plate or even a meat dish.
Our soft friends glide easily over the smooth surface of such articles,
and one can watch their actions and appreciate their form and pro-
portions. Some species are more slender in form than others and
some have much longer tentacles in proportion to their bodies than
other species.
When first becoming interested in slugs one naturally has to
overcome an inborn feeling of repugnance, but in this case, as in
many others, familiarity breeds contempt and we soon learn to
enjoy the grace and delicacy of the slug. Round London they are
mostly of a dull coloration, but in some parts of the kingdom speci-
mens may be found showing a scheme of beautiful tints. One
disadvantage connected with the study of slugs consists in the want
of any good method of preserving specimens for comparison. They
look very sorry objects when immersed in spirit. They n)ight
perhaps keep their shape and colour better m a 10% aqueous solu-
tion of forujalin. At present a water colour drawing would seem
the best means of bringing back to memory the details of form and
colour of any particular specimen of which we may wish to make
some record. Mr. Main has made some very successful camera
studies of these animals. A good series of such photographs would
be a useful and beautiful addition to any conchologist's collection.
In general slugs are of nocturnal habit, and require a large amount
of moisture to keep them in a healthy condition. A dry heat is
