The Autumn Butterflies at Eastbourne and some other
notes.
By Robert Adkin, F.E.S. Bead January 21tJi, 1916.
The weather during the autumn months of 1915 was distinctlj^
"patchy." In some districts rain was frequent, while in others for
many weeks hardly a drop fell. For instance, while the neighbour-
hood of London was receiving a respectable amount of moisture,
we at Eastbourne were longing for a decent shower to freshen up
the parched gardens. We had plenty later, but that does not affect
the present question. It was perhaps owing to this difference in
weather conditions that the reports one heard of the scarcity, or
otherwise, of the autumn butterflies arose, but apart from that there
appeared to be a great difference in the relative numbers of what
one usually considers the common species, even in the favoured
districts. Why should Af/lais iirticae be rare while Pymmeis
atalanta was more than common ? They are species of similar
habits and appear at practically the same time of year. Or why
should Poly o))i Hiatus tear us be less common than usual, while
Afjriades thetis (bellaryus) was particularly abundant ? But I am
perhaps anticipating, and should give some details of what came
under my notice rather than indulge in generalising.
The period under notice extended from the middle of July to the
early days of November, but my opportunities for observation were
by no means continuous, consisting as they did entirely of week-
ends, sometimes of two, or at most three days, but more often of
only one, and if that one happened to be cloudy, a full fortnight
might possibly elapse between the times that I had any chance of
watching the butterflies. The chief districts of observation were
the flowery banks along the western part of the parades, the sea
front of the Downs as far as Cow Gap, about a mile beyond, and
my own garden, with very occasionally a walk over the higher
Downs or through Abbot's Wood. It will perhaps be convenient
to deal with the subject under the heading of species rathar than in
sequence of dates, although it may necessitate some repetition of
dates and places.
Pieris brassicoi and P. rapcc. — White butterflies were fairly com-
mon during July, August, and September throughout the whole
district, but at no time particularly abundant ; they were, however,
seen more commonly during the first fortnight of August than be-
