fore or after, especially in the case of P. brassicae. Both species
were last seen on October 3rd, when P. rapm was still flying in
some numbers, but P. brassicce was represented by only a couple of
specimens.
Colias ednsa was first seen on September 5th, when one was
noted on the parade banks and another in Cow Gap. Others that
came under notice were, on the 13th, 1 ; 17th, 2; 18th, 4 • all on
the parades, and the last on 19th, when one flitted abiut the
flowers m my garden for a few minutes in the afternoon sunshine,
bo far as T was able to observe them, they were all males in more
or less worn condition.
Goneptertix rhainni.—On August 22nd I was not a little surprised
to see a male example of this species flitting contentedly about some
furze bushes right on the top of the Downs. I know of no Pxhamnns
growmg in the neighbourhood, but the insect appeared to be in
absolutely fresh order, as though only just out of pupa.
Brenthis selene.—A second brood Avas reported as having been
on the wing in Abbott's Wood at the end of August, several being
seen on the 22nd, and a few on the 28th, all appeared small in size
as compared with those of the usual spring emergence.
Vane><sa io also was reported from the same locality on the last-
mentioned date as occurring sparingly.
Jkllais urtico'.—One was noticed on the parade banks on July
13th and another in a similar position on the 18th, but no more
were seen until September 13th, when a couple were noticed along
the parades, and on the 18th a few more. I have no note of it
having been met with along the Downs and it was a rare visitor
to the garden. Usually one may find several specimens feeding at
the plants of Sednni spectahile that are grown in some of the flower
beds near the sea, on any sunny morning in August or September,
but although I visited them more than once, I failed to find nrtic(B
at them.
Pj/rameh atalanta was first met with on August 29th, when, in
the flower- bedecked open spaces about Abbott's Wood, specimens
were frequent, but I did not detect it on the coast until September
13th, when only one was seen. From this time, however, it soon
became more numerous, and from the 18th was one of the most
commonly seen butterflies along the parades, was by no means in-
frequent along the Downs, and quite abundant in the garden, where
It was the usual thing to see anything from a dozen to a score of
individuals gorging themselves at the blossoms of the Michaelmas
daisies at one time. A similar stace of aftairs continued until
October 3rd, and there was little abatement in numbers on the 10th
but on the 17th, a rather dull day, three was the largest number
fieen in the garden at one time. The weather during the week that
followed was cool and rainy, and no more atalanta were seen.
Pyrameis caniid was at no time common. One was seen at
Abbott s Wood on August 29th, a couple on the parades on Sep-
