64
tember 18th, and on October 3rd, on a walk along the parades and
the Downs as far as Cow Gap, perhaps half-a-dozen were seen.
Polygoma c-album. — September 18th was a brilliant day and a
red-letter day for Vanessids. During the morning a stranger was
noted among the atalanta that were feasting at the Michaelmas
daisies in the garden, and on a net being procured and the stranger
secured, it proved to be a very nice c-albtim. A second specimen
was taken on the same or following day in a garden at Hampden
Park, an outlying part of the town some two miles inland. So far
as I am aware, Sussex was at no time a home of this species, not
even in the early years of last century, when there appears to have
been well-established colonies in some other of the southern
counties, but stray examples have from time to time occnrred, the
last previous record, I believe, being one at Dormans, a village just
on the Surrey border of the county, on September 11th, 1906. It
would be interesting to know whence these stray individuals come :
of course, there is always the chance of an escape from someone's
breeding-cage, or the result of an attempt to acclimatize the species
in the neighbourhood, a most unsatisfactory proceeding unless the
fact is widely published, but on the other hand there is the
possibility of a migration from some other place, in an endeavour
on the part of the species to extend its range of distribution under
natural conditions.
FJpinephele jurtina {janira) was met with commonly throughout
the district during July, August, and the earlier part of September,
but thinned down towards the end of the month; the last seen was
a solitary one in Cow Gap on October 3rd. During the earlier part
of the time it was a frequent visitor to the garden.
Epinephele titkonns. — A few were noted on August 8th in Cow
Gap.
Ccenonympha paw})hiliis | Were all fairly common during
Rumicia {Chrysoj^haniis) phl(ras,r the earlier part of the time and
and Polyouimatus icarns. ] not infrequent visitors to the
garden. The two latter were seen last on October 3rd.
Celastrina aryiolus was fairly common in the garden and about
the ivy-covered walls along the parades on August 2nd, but had
decreased considerably in numbers by the 8th. The species did not
appear at any time to be so abundant as in some recent years.
Afiriades coridon. — It was not until August 8th that I had an
opportunity of visiting the parts of the Downs where this species
occurs, and I then found it verv commonly, and as a rule the
specimens were fresh. Little difterence in numbers or their con-
dition was noted on subsequent visits up to September 18th. Soon
after this some unsettled weather set in, with a fair amount of rain
and chilly northerly winds, and on my next visit on the 26th 1
failed to detect any, but on October 3rd, during a few hours' of hot
sunshine and calm weather I found one undoubted female although
no males were on the wing.
