65
Agriades thetis {hellargns) was not met with until September 5th,
on which day it was found very commonly in Cow Gap and had
evidently been on the wing for some days. To see this species at
its best one needs to be on the ground in the morning, as, soon
after mid-day the sun begins to lose its power on the banks fre-
quented by the butterflies, and early in the afternoon portions of
the ground are in shadow, and a thinning down in the numbers on
the wing is soon noticed, nor are the butterflies then to be found on
the grass stems, but seem to have a knack of secreting themselves
among the rooty parts of the thicker grass tufts and in all sorts of
inaccessible places on the steeper parts of the banks. From the
time when the species was first noted it steadily increased in num-
bers, and indeed appeared to be more abundant than in the past few
seasons, and no diminution in numbers was noted throughout Sep-
tember. During early October there was a decided thinning down,
but even then it was still to be found commonly, and many of the
individuals of both sexes were quite fresh. It was last seen on
October 17th, a beautifully fine, warm morning, when some three
or four dozen were noted, and among them two or three of the
males were brilliant in their freshness. Fine weather continued for
a few days longer, and no doubt the species remained on the wing
through them, possibly to the 20th or 21st, although the last that
I actually saw of it was on the 17th. Tutt, in his " Natural History
of the British Lepidoptera," devotes nearly four pages of closely
printed matter to the earliest and latest dates on which A. thetish&s
been found on the wing ; in these October is given only seven times,
and the 15th of that month is the latest date mentioned. It therefore
appears that even if the 17th, on which I saw it last autumn, was
the last day on which it was actually on the wing, it was an
exceptionally late date for the species.
From the foregoing it will be noted that A. coridon and A. thetis
are flying together in this locality for two or three weeks, and have
every possible opportunity for cross-pairing, yet I have never seen
such an occurrence, nor have I ever come across any specimen that
suggested in any way the possibility of it being a hybrid.
Before leaving the butterflies there is just one other point that I
should like to notice. Many years ago when I used, as a youngster,
to go to Eastbourne very occasionally for a day's collecting, a rough
cart track ran from the end of Meads Street, a hamlet about a
mile from the then western end of the town, across a cornfield and
down the side of an old chalk pit to the beach, and had evidently
been made for the purpose of serving a pair of limekilns, the foun-
dations of which were then still standing. On the left of this track
was a high grassy bank having an almost due south aspect, and this
bank, as long as I can remember, was a haunt of A. thetis. Some
thirty years ago the sloping front of the cliff between the town and
this rough track was converted into parades, and the sloping banks
between them planted with shrubs and flowers and kept in a state
