66
of cultivation. More recently the rough track itself has been con-
verted into a good road with asphalt path, and forms the chief con-
nection between the lower parade and the road which runs at the
top of the cliff. The chalk pit also has been planted with cypress
and other trees, and converted into a minature park as a finish to
the parades. As a consequence this particular point has been
brought well within the confines of the town, and there is a very
considerable traffic on the road into which the old rough track has
been converted. Yet, on any sunny morning during its season you
may find A. thetis disporting itself on the few square yards of the
original grassy bank that are still left, showing how pertinaciously
a species will cling to its original haunts even under adverse condi-
tions. So much for the butterflies.
Riiprnctis (Porthesia) chrysorrluea. — One fine morning in the latter
part of September, while on my way along the edge of the cliffs in
the direction of Cow Gap, my attention was attracted by what
appeared to be great numbers of pieces of sheep's wool attached to
the twigs of the blackthorn bushes, but which on investigation
proved to be the winter nests of E. clinjmrrlum. On some of them
the young larvae were sunning themselves. On October 3rd, another
very fine mild day, some of the larvae were again outside the nests,
but on my next visit, a fortnight later, no larvas were visible, the
nests, however, had the appearance of having been thickened up
and strengthened in the interval, no doubt having been prepared to
withstand the winter storms. The species has occurred in the im-
mediate neighbourhood, to my own knowledge, since 1902, generally
being confined to one or another of the small clumps of bushes that
grow thereabout, and on occasion, sufficiently commonly to com-
pletely devastate the particular clump attacked before the larvae
were full-fed, but I have never before seen the nests so abundant as
they are this winter, and although the bushes attacked form by far
the largest clump in the neighbourhood, it is doubtful whether even
they Avill be sufficient to provide food for the growing larvae in the
spring. (See " Proc," 1907, p. 12.)
Ants. — On the afternoon of September 18th, while walking
through Cow Gap, we could not help noticing the enormous numbers
of winged ants that were on the move ; hardly a foot of ground was
free from the crawling hosts and the air appeared to be full of
them. The species concerned, Mr. Donisthorpe, who was present
informs me, were Donisthorpea ni(/ra, D. ffava, and Myninca scabri-
nodis, and we had evidently hit upon them in the midst of their
marriage flight. One knows that ants' nests are fairly numerous
in this locality, but it is only on such occasions that one appreciates
the vast numbers of the individuals, and wonders whether their
presence has anything to do with the abundance of A. coridon and
A. thetis in this locality.
Birds. — During the early autumn the Martins (chiefly Chelidon
urbica, I believe) are wont to congregate in great numbers on the
