proved to ray own satisfaction (but not to that of some others),
that P. atalanta cannot pass the winter as an imago. I have for
the past ten years experimented with the species, and the only
way in which I can carry it successfully through the winter, is by
feeding it regularly.
" I grant that several undoubted records are to hand of the imago
being found alive in January and February, among them that of
my friend Mr. Barnes, of Farnborough, whose record is without
dispute ; but his finding the species apparently hybernating does not
prove that those specimens were going to live till April or May and
pair and carry on their race. We all know that in mild autumns
and winters you can find larvae and pupte in November and
December, and we usually bring these into a warm room and breed
out the imago in December or early January. Why should not
these found specimens be very late natural emergencies, say,
January ones, and that being the case, they would live for a few
weeks without food tucked snugly away amongst creepers, but
would die off before the spring. We have, many of us, caught in
April or early May absolutely perfect specimens, which look as if
just out of the pupas, and my discovery that the species can remain
as a pupa through the winter seems to clear up the mystery of
these fresh specimens.
" I wish it clearly understood that I am still of the opinion that
we are almost entirely dependent on immigration for our supply of
P. atalanta."
Mr. R. Adkin remarked on the importance of Mr. Newman's
observations in bringing such definite information on a point in the
life-history of P. atalanta, which had hitherto eluded one's
knowledge.
Mr. Frohawk said that P. atalanta was on the wing all the
winter in suitable weather in the Scilly Isles. It apparently had a
hibernating stage, but there was a succession of broods throughout
the year. The temperature of these islands was uniformly warm,
varying from 47° in winter to 57° in summer.
Mr. J. Platt-Barrett said that P. atalanta was to be seen all the
winter in Sicily on favourable occasions.
Mr. F. W. Frohawk exhibited a large number of lantern slides of
bird subjects, and gave an address on them, including much first
hand information of his own observations in the Scilly Isles and
elsewhere. He subsequently contributed the following notes
containing a resume of his remarks on
