70
The " Bird-life of the Scilly Isles. The Manx Shearwater."
" To the ornithologist and botanist it would be difficult to find a
holiday resort more full of interest than the Islands of Scilly, they
teem with bird-life, flowers, ferns and sub-tropical vegetation.
" This delightful group of islands are situated about 27 miles
south-west of the Land's End and 40 miles from Penzance, from
which port the passage occupies from three to five hours, according to
weather conditions. The group consists of about 200 islands and
islets, some of the latter composed of bare granite rocks. Only five
of the larger islands are inhabited, viz., St. Mary's, Tresco, Bryher,
St. Martin's, and St. Agnes. There is little doubt that in pre-
historic ages the most westward of these islands formed the Land's
End of Britain.
" All the islands and rocky islets are frequented by innumerable
sea birds, which nest there unmolested, due to the protection
afforded them by the Lord Proprietor, Mr. T. A. Dorien-Smith.
From an ornithological point of view Annet, or Bird Island, is per-
haps the most interesting. It is a small island, being about half a
mile in length and much less in breadth, and lies south-west of the
group. It is the home of an extraordinary multitude of birds, of
which puffins are the most abundant, next in number are the Manx
Shearwaters, and then the three species of gulls, of these the lesser
black-back is most numerous, then the herring gulls, while several
pairs of great black-back gulls are dispersed over the tallest rocks
along the shore. Other nesting birds are shags, cormorants, oyster-
catchers, ringed plovers, terns, razorbills, storm petrels, rock pipits,
and lastly and least in size the common wren.
" When I first visited this island during the height of the nesting
season in 1904, I was astonished at the amazing number of puffins
breeding there, I then estimated at least 100,000 were nesting on
Annet. If only 40,000 pairs out of the total number brought off
their young (a single young one), during the following August, no
less than 140,000 puffins, young and old, left this one small island
to spend the next six months at sea, scattered somewhere over the
ocean, but to what part of the world these birds retire has yet to
be ascertained. As I have already stated, the shearwaters ranked
next in number, amounting to at least 30,000, as a safe estimate.
Of this most interesting and curious bird a few notes may be given,
as it is a species which is not commonly observed owing to its
crepuscular and nocturnal habits. Formerly it bred abundantly on
the Isle of Man, but for some years past has been considered extinct
