71
there as a breeding species. It nests on several of the westward
islands of Scotland, the Orkneys and Shetlands, also on some of the
Irish islands, and on Skomer oflf the Pembrokeshire coast. In the
Scillies I spent a considerable time in studying the habits of this
bird, and purposely passed a night on Annet in order to observe
their movements during the few hours of darkness in early June. I
landed on this wild island on the evening of June 3rd, 1904, and
spent such a memorable night among the host of sea birds that it
was an experience and pleasure never to be forgotten and rivals
description. The spot selected to pass the night was one of the
highest parts of the island, and which turned out to be the most
suitable site, as every part of the ground was honeycombed with
their nesting burrows. Up till 9.45 p.m. the time was mostly
occupied by watching the movements of the puffins, which con-
tinued leaving and returning to their nests as long as the twilight
lasted. At 9.45 I cook up my position for the night. After waiting
a few minutes the shearwaters commenced crowing to each other
underground, which produced a very weird effect in the darkness.
Suddenly, at ten o'clock, they all appeared to leave the burrows at
the same time, they emerged so quickly that for a minute or two
they fluttered around in a great swarm, in the dim light I could
just see their dark forms flapping about over the surface of the
ground trying to rise, which they are unable to do without the aid
of some hillock or other emmence from which to take flight. Very
soon afterwards the air was filled with a dense swarm of these queer
birds, flying round and round, crowing loudly, the noise they made
by their remarkable cries was so great that the roar ot the sea beat-
ing against the rocks only 30 or 40 yards away was drowned by the
uproar they made. This wonderful assemblage of shearwaters kept
up the flight and screaming for just three hours, when, at 1 a.m.
precisely, there suddenly became silence, as if caused by some word
of command, and the whole multitude went to sea, where they again
set up their perpetual cries and continued until just before dawn,
when they were heard no more. Apparently they all went to some
distant fishing ground to return again at sundown, as at that time
they are generally to be seen flying over the surface of the water
round the islands, or careering along in a direct line homewards.
" Although a few pairs nest on some of the other islands, Annet
is the home of this bird, where their nesting burrows honeycomb
the whole of the ground except part of the centre, which is a bed of
bracken occupied by a colony of lesser black-back gulls.
" Like the shearwaters the puffins riddle the ground with nesting
