72
burrows, and very frequently nests of both species occupy the same
burrow, when such is the case the puffin's egg — both birds lay
one egg only — is always nearest the entrance. The shearwaters
nest is placed at various distances down the burrow, sometimes
about 3 ft., but usually further, often at many feet from the mouth
of the hole. In one instance, on another island, I found the
parent bird sitting on its egg at the remarkable distance of 24 ft.
from the entrance, as this was not the end of the burrow I
carefully opened it up, and after digging for another 12 ft. I came
upon a fully grown rabbit crouched at the end of the burrow.
How these two creatures contrived to occupy the same burrow,
which was only just large enough in diameter for one to pass along
at a time, and as it had but one entrance, which had to act as exit
also, it is somewhat of a puzzle, unless they gave each other the
signal for one to emerge or enter to let the other pass along."
" The accompanying drawing (Plate vii.), represents one of the
birds, of which many were found on their nests, taken from the
nesting burrow between 3 and 4 a.m. At first it was placed on a
rock, from which it climbed on to the author's hand, and finally
settled down on his arm as shown, where it peacefully rested until
removed."
FEBRUARY 25th, 1915.
This was an evening for the exhibition of Lantern Slides.
Mr. W. West (Ashtead) exhibited slides of a freshwater alga,
larva of a lace-wing fly, the Psylla of the apple tree, larva of a
firefly, a Coccus of the banana, ditto denuded of its waxy covering,
an Aphis from dogwood, ditto parasitised, pupa of the parasite,
imago of ditto, pupa of a midge on bark, the midge emerging, a
<y of ditto, and the antennae of ^ of ditto.
Mr. Tonge exhibited slides of a species of Tenthredn, resting
attitude of Cidaria pyraliata, ditto of Bryophila mnralis {(jlandifera),
ditto of Notodonta ziczac, ova of Dasychira piidibtmda, borings of
Sesia andrenaformis in viburnum stem, resting attitude of Sesia
ichneumoniformis, ditto of Mandnca atropos, pupa of Apatura iris,
pupa of Limenitis sibylla, larva of Gonepteryx rhamni hung for
pupation, larva of Fieris hrassica, hung for pupation, pupje of ditto,
pupa of Papilio viachaon, pupa of EucJdo'e cardaiiiines, larva of ditto
hung for pupation, pupa of Pararye (eyeria, resting attitude of
Haiiieans liicina, larva of ditto, pupa of Dryas paphia, and pupa of
Mtlitaa aiirinia.
