Mr. Bunnett exhibited slides of scales of Bithys qnercm, battle-
dore scales of 3 Pieris rapa, scales of Mania wanra, scales of
Tinea pellionella, tongue of Adopaa fiava, cornea of Pyranieis ata-
lanta, cremastral hooks on pupa of ditto and of Pieris bramca,
prolegs of larva Aylais nrtica, stick insect at emergence from ovum,
ova of a Cori.va, larva of Siuudiinn, empty cases of the pupa of
ditto, larva of an aphis, etc.
Mr. Colthrup exhibited slides of the primrose, blackthorn, larvie
of Coccinella bipmictata, pupa of ditto, Helix cantiana, the sea holly,
resting attitude of Hiwera pennaria J , ditto of Mimas tilia $ ,
ditto of Amorpha popidi, ditto of Mania waiira, ditto of Phloqophora
meticdosa, aberrations of Ayriades coridon, aberrations of Dianthcecia
carpophaga, aberrations of Luperina testacea, larva of Amphidasis
betidaria on rose, larva of Endramis versicolor, ditto of Staitropus
fayi, ditto of Lycia hirtaria light and dark forms, ditto of Pachy.
gastria trifolii, ditto of Cnspidia meyacephala, and a ditto of Astero-
scopus niibecidosa.
Mr. Colthrup also exhibited sets of slides on behalf of the
members of the Nature Photographic Society, viz. :—
For Mr. Bedford, the fen orchis, the large helleborine, the lizard
orchis, the man orchis, the bee orchis, and the large butterfly
orchis.
For Mr. Salmon, a series of the blackbeaded gull, in flight, nest-
ing mode of female, settling on nest, courtship, and young.
For Mr. Sanders, a series of the cuckoo, young in a hedge-
sparrow's nest, two stages of growth, being fed, a wren feeding
a young cuckoo, and a brood of young kestrels.
For Mr. Main, ova of a lace-wing fly, ova of another species,
larva of ditto, cocoon of ditto, cocoon opened to show circular lid,
pupa of ditto, lid of cocoon, imago of ditto, and various views of the
same.
For Mr. Hocking, a series of British fungi.
For Mr. Tonge, Ajwria craheyi on pupa-case, ova of Pyramtis
cardui in situ, larva of Brenthis selene, ditto of Dryas paphia, ova of
Ruralis betidce, and ova of Amphidasis betidaria.
For Mr. Irving, an oak tree in summer and in winter, the bole of
ditto, the polar bear, the leopard, and the jaguar.
For Mr. Stanley Cooke, the long-tailed tit, the tawny owl, young
of ditto, male rook getting twigs for a nest, loaded with twigs for
flight, going for food.
Mr. Newman exhibited a fine series of Celerio yallii bred from
