74
N, Cornwall ova. They were forced in January, and specimens
were still emerging.
Mr. J. Piatt Barrett exhibited a series of Euchlo'e damone from
Sicily, and stated that the variation in the species was extremely
slight.
Mr. F. W. Frohawk exhibited a series of Arctia caja bred and
captured in the Scilly Islands. They were of the yellow form of
various shades. He said that in some years the species was very
abundant, and in 1897 in countless thousands. One specimen
exhibited had but little cream colour on the forewings, and the
hindwings had the submarginal spots coalesced into a wide band,
Mr. Adkin stated that the late Mr. J. Cooper years ago took a
number of larvae of this species on Wanstead Flats, and on one
day subsequently bred no less than six or seven yellow forms,
while no other specimen showed that aberration.
Mr. B. H. Smith exhibited a species of beetle found doing great
damage to a cargo of Tasmanian peas which had recently been
imported. It was subsequently found to be Bi-uchus chinensh
{pectimcornis).
MARCH llth, 1915.
Mr. A. E. GiBBS, F.L.S., F.E.S., Vice-President, in the chair.
Mr. R. T. Bowman exhibited a bred series of Kphyra pendnlaria
and read the following note : —
" I have a few examples of Eplujra [Zonosoina) pendularia to show,
which I believe to be the form known as var. suhroseata. In the
autumn of 1918 I beat a number of wild larvae in Surrey, and
when the imagines emerged in May of last year, to my astonishment
I found one was what I presumed to be var. subrosaeta. This
example, which was a female, was paired with a typical male, and
I obtained 82 ova and eventually 82 pupse. Of the 32 pup», 28
imagines emerged between the 28th of June and the 6th of July,
and one in the first week of September, so that 3 are still in the
pupal stage. Of the 29 imagines 16 turned out to be of the typical
form and 13 of the pink form, and these again are divided, the 16
typical into 7 <? s and 9 $ s, and the pink into 6 <? s and 7 ? s, a slight
preponderance of the ? sex."
Mr. A. E. Gibbs exhibited a specimen of the huge South
American Noctuid, Tlii/sania aijrippini {Noctua stri.r) from Costa
Rica, from whence several examples had recently been sent to him.
