75
It was stated to be a somewhat widely spread species. Mr. W. J.
Kaye stated that he had seen it in the island of Trinidad, where
it was considerably smaller in size. It rests on tree-trunks with
out-spread wings like an Eupithecia.
Mr. Witcher, who was present as a visitor, exhibited a remarkable
able gynandroraorphous hybrid Smerinthus ocellatus J x A)iior])ha
populi $ , in which the L. side was c? and the R. side ? .
Mr. Hy J. Turner exhibited a copy of an uncommon book,
"Illustrations of British Mycology," by Mrs. Hussey, vol. i., 4to.,
90 coloured plates, which he had recently acquired from a
bookseller, who was about to tear the plates out and sell them as
" pretty pictures " for a few pence each.
The rest of the evening was devoted to microscopical exhibits.
Mr. R. Adkin exhibited under the microscope portions of the
oocoon of Dicram(ra viiuila, arranged to show the ribbon-like form
of the material of which the cocoon is constructed. He also
exhibited antennas of several species of Lepidoptera.
Mr. W. West (of Ashtead), exhibited slides showing androconia
of Pieris brassiae, specimens of a Coccus found on bananas, and a
beautiful micro-fungus on wood, Hypoloxylon coccineiuu.
Mr. Coxhead exhibited a number of mites discovered infesting
Brazil-nuts.
Mr. Ashdown exhibited a number of minute species of Coleoptera
and Hemiptera, including; — Lnciula italica, PliospJianns hemiptevns,
Anthaxia nitidiila, Poecilonota rntilans, Metacant/ucs pnnctipes, Asiraca
clavicornis, and a larva of Ledra aurita.
Mr. Bunnett exhibited the larva of a thrips, which had been
attacked by a micro-fungus.
Dr. Chapman showed mounted skins of the larvae of F.veres
argiades in the first and last stages. In the first stage the larva
is of the form and has the hairs, lenticles, etc., on the general
type found in the " blue " butterflies. It differs in some details
from that of its nearest British ally, Ciipido minimus.
By the courtesy of the Editors of the " Ent. Mo. Mag.," certain
plates illustrating this larva are reproduced in the " Proceedings."
The following is an abstract from the notes in " Ent. Mo. Mag.,''
8rd series, Vol. i. (li.), p. 35.
" Plate II. shows the larva magnified nearly five times. Figs.
1 and 2 show the larva in its penultimate instar, and figs. 3 and 4,
when full grown. In the summer broods, the larva maintains this
appearance (with little change) up to pupation, but the autumn
larvBB, which hibernate, assume, in order to do so, the coloration
