76
shown in fig. 5. This change of colour for hibernation was described
by Zeller in 1849, " Stett. ent. Zeit." vol. x., p. 177-182.
I may quote the following from my notes : — •
September 9th, 1918. — The first stage larva, when a little grown,
about l-5mm. long, is, when sufficiently magnified, rather hand-
some. It has a dark green dorsal line, paler green elsewhere with
a series of horseshoe-shaped red marks round the spiracles. Seen
dorsally there are oblique green lines, downwards and backwards
from the dorsal line, ending in a pink-red line about middle of
slope. It is remarkable that on further magnification these oblique
lines are not visible. They are, however, plain enough in the
second instar.
In its fourth instar (penultimate) the larva has a very definite
dark green dorsal line, bordered by paler, that is, almost yellow.
The lateral Ime on flange has a very bright reddish-pink colour ;
between these the almost yellow oblique lines are very marked, four
on each segment, the lowest close to flange, rather obscure. Each
oblique streak therefore appears to be complete, downwards and
backwards, across four segments. The red lateral line is red from
the 2nd to the 7th abdominal segments. On the other segments it
is at first rather yellow ; as the larva grows the red becomes rather
rusty, the yellow becomes whitish.
In the last (5th) instar the red lateral line is dull rusty in colour
and the oblique lines are pale, but not yellow ; the spiracles are
orange and rather conspicuous. Of the hair bases, some are black>
some are yellow, the latter more dominant dorsally, and about the
middle of each segment. They are rather brilliant and sparkling
in direct sunlight. The larger, pale rufous hairs are still rather
abundant dorsally and laterally.
When almost ready for pupation, although still eating, the larva
assumes a much darker tone, the ground colour being a rich, but
pale, pinkish-brown, on which the pale, hardly yellow oblique lines
are very distmct.
When apparently definitely fixed as if for pupation the larva is
very dark, having passed through a red-brown stage in which the
oblique lines were especially conspicuous. The larva observed
made a nest at the bottom of the tin under a leaf with enough
spinning to be almost entitled to be called a cocoon. This proved^
however, to be for a hibernaculum.
Plate VIII. will give some idea of the distribution of hairs and
ienticles in the first instar which conform to the general Lycienine
type.
