77
Plate IX. shows the same iu the last instar.
The photographs of the larval details may be regarded as sup-
plementing those I contributed to Tutt's " British Lepidoptera,"
vol. X., plates VIII., IX., X., and may be compared with those of
Cupido miniuiiix, our only British species of the Everid tribe.
Mr. Tutt in " British Lepidoptera," vol. x., pp. 43-101 summed
up what has hitherto been ascertained as to Kreres anfiades, and
this may be consulted for further details."
MARCH 25th, 1915.
The main subject of the evening was the special exhibition of
series of Aphautopns hyperantus, contributed to by Messrs. Frohawk,
R. Adkin, Bright, Edwards, Turner, Dennis, Curwen, Ashdown,
B. W. Adkin, Gibbs, and Leeds, and the discussion thereon.
Mr. R, Adkin's exhibit of Aphantopus hyperantiis comprised series
from many English localities, including a long row from the
neighbourhood of Carlisle, the greyish tone of colour of the
undersides of which was very noticeable as compared with the
browner shade of the more Southern examples. Several specimens
showed considerable variation in the markings of the underside, the
extreme in the one direction having the ocelli large and in some
cases elongated, while in the other they were reduced to mere dots
= var. arete, or absent = var. cicca. Two specimens showed
considerable bleaching similar to that which is not infrequently
found in Epinephele jnrtina.
Mr. W. J. Ashdown exhibited specimens of Aphantopus
hyperantns from Switzerland, France, and the New Forest, showing
the variation in ground colour and in number of spots on the
undersides.
Mr. Leeds exhibited specimens of A. hyperantus and particularly
pointed out examples with asymmetrical markings.
Mr. Frohawk exhibited his series of A. hyperantus, including fine
examples of the ab. lanceolata, and called attention to the very
considerable variation occurring in the number and development of
the eye-spots, and in particular pointed out in various exhibits odd
specimens in which a very small additional apical ocellus was
apparent on the forewings.
Mr. A. E. Gibbs exhibited from British localities, ab. rura from
Howick ; ab. arete from Cambridge ; ab. vidua from Cambridge,
Cornwall, and New Forest ; and from Continental localities, ab.
