78
arete from Poligny, French Jura, and Weimar ; asymmetrical forms
from the French Jura, with 3 ocelli on R. forewings and 2 on
L. forewings ; specimens from Eclepens showing well-developed
transverse lines on hindwings.
Mr, Hy. J. Turner gave a summary of the history of the species
of which the following account was the basis : — ■
The species we are discussing to-night was first described in 1758
by Linneus in the " Systema Naturae " (Ed. x., p. 471) as follows:
Papilio (Danai, Festivi) liyperantus, " alis integerrimis fuscis ;
primoribus subtus ocellis tribus; posticis utrinque quinque."
Habitat in Europae sylvis."
In 1761 the same author, in " Fauna Suecica " (p. 273),
redescribed hyperantus as follows: — Alae concolores, fuscae, margine
albido. Primores supra punctis 2 nigris, vix ocellatis ; subtus
ocellis 3, postico minore. Secundariae supra punctis 2 ; subtus
ocellis 2 approximatis anterioribus and 3 posterioribus distinctis.
In 1763 Scopoli in the " Entomologia Carniolica " (p. 167j,
either ignoring or in ignorance of the Linnean name, re-described
the species as Papiliu polymeda.
In 1764, 0. F. Miiller in " Fauna insectorum Fridrichsdalina "
(p. 36) after giving hyperantus (p. 33) described P. arete as follows :
" alis dentatis utrinque cinereo-fuscis ; primoribus duobus, posticis
quinque punctis albis," which we now identify as an aberration of
hyperantus.
The same author (I.e., p. 36) described P. vidua as follows : "alis
dentatis supra nigro-cinereis immaculatis ; subtus e flavo cinereis
nitidis, ocellis primoribus 2 posticis quinque." This is evidently
another form of hyperantus [" possibly a ? form," Tutt, in lit.]
In 1767 Linneus, in " Hystema Naturae " (Ed. xii., p. 768),
substituted " posticis duobus tribusque " for " posticis utrinque
quinque" in the xth Ed.
In 1767 Moses Harris, in his " Essay " on the nervures as
characters for establishing genera, placed hyperantus in the genus
Aryus, with other British Satyrids.
In 1775, Fabricius in " Systema Entomologi:e " (p. 486)
remarked on the variation " alis supra ocellatis et immaculatis,"
and spelt the name with an h, P. hyperanthus.
In 1777, Scopoli, in his " Introductio ad Historiam Naturalem,"
employed the name Argus for a heterogeneous assemblage of more
than 50 species including hyperantus and even Urbicolida.
In 1779, Goeze, in " Entomologische Beitrtlge " (vol. iii., pt. 1.,
p. 288), described Papiliu octoculatus, a description which is now
