80
Revision of the List of Swedish Butterflies," and diagnosed a genus
which he called Erebia, with the type ligea, and including
hyperantus.
In 1828 Stephens, in his " Illustrations of British Entomology "
("Vol. i., p. 60), dealt with the variation of fiyi)erant{h)us in
considerable detail. He briefly described no less than 17 aberrations
in addition to the type form, but wisely refrained from adding to
our nomenclature thereby. These forms are mainly mutations "of
the number and development of the spots. His genus is Hipparchia.
But in volume iv. (1835), he gave hyperant{h)>is as the British
representative of the Hiibnerian genus Enndia.
In 1839, Freyer, in his " Neuere Beitrage " (iv., pit. 290), figured
and described two forms, but does not name them. (" Neither of
these is very characteristic." — Tutt in lit.)
In 1843, Herrich Schjeffer, in his " Schmetterlinge Europas "
(Vol. i., p. 81), placed /iypera7it{h)ns in the genus Epinephele.
In 1853 Wallengren, in his " Lepidoptera Scandinaviae Rhopalo-
cera " (p. 80), diagnosed a genus, Aphantopus for hyperant{h)us
alone.
In 1868 Butler, in his " Catalogue of Diurnal Lepidoptera,"
placed hyperant{li)us in the sub-genus Minois, Hiib., of the genus
Satyrns.
In 1882 Butler, in the " Annals and Magazine of Natural History"
(vol. 5 (ix.), p. 14), described the large Eastern Asian form as ocel-
latiis, "major subtus obscurior, ocellis majoribus, Stgr."
In 1884 Fuchs, in " Macrolepidopteren des unteren Rheingau "
(" Stett. e. Zeit.," p. 252, etc.), described the form ab. caca as fol-
lows, " The white points of the ab. arete of Miiller are entirely
wanting on the undersides of the forewings, which are consequently
wholly dark. On the hindwings only solitary points are faintly
indicated. The more distinct point stands as the second from the
anal angle of the wings. On each side of this there is merely a
white atom indicated, the rest are wanting. Ab. caca is a further
development of ab. arete."
In 1891 Fuchs, in a further article in the " Jahrbucher des
Nassauischen Vereins fur Naturkunde " (p. 215), described a dwarf
form as ab. minor, from specimens taken in the Bavarian Alps at a
height of 872 metres (about 3,000 ft.). He says, " The expanse of
forewings from base to apex is only 17mm. in the ^ s and 20mm.
in the ? s, compared with 21mm. <? s and 24mm. $ s in the (aver-
age) Nassau examples. The wing shape is also somewhat dififerent;
both sexes have narrower wings, and thus in the female the wings
