82
(j) Development of an additional minute apical eye on upper side
of forewing in rare instances.
(k) Frequent asymmetry in number and in development of the
€ye-spots on the two sides.
(Z) The partial non-development of pigment, i.e., existence of
irregular pale areas in some examples.
(»i) Variation in depth of ground colour, especially noticed on the
under sides of races from different areas. (Carlisle, etc.)
(n) Gyiiandromorphs. No example of this aberration has hitherto
been reported.
(0) Dr. Chapman noted that by daylight the points of the eye-
spots on the forewings appeared yellow, while those on the hind-
wings were pure white.
Some divergence of opinion occurred as to the habit of hyperanttis
to occur in colonies of somewhat restricted areas. Undoubtedly
small restricted colonies do occur, and the apparent divergence may
be explained, possibly by assuming that numerous colonies with
more or less closely approximating areas suggest a general destribu-
tion in some districts.
Mr. Bright exhibited three very interesting aberrations of British
Lepidoptera.
(1) Argynnis aylaia, in which the black markings were much
increased in area and coalesced into large blotches, some of which
were radiate.
(2) Polyomniattis icarus, an underside form of unusually light
ground colour, giving an appearance like no other species of British
'' blue."
(3) An example of male A/puule.'i coridon, in which the eye-spots
on the lower wing were margined with traces of the red scaling
which is usual in the female, a form known on the Continent as
ab. suavis.
Mr. Edwards exhibited a grass snake which had been found at
Blackheath a few days before.
Mr. Colthrup exhibited a large number of clutches of the eggs of
the house-sparrow, and pointed out in each case that there was
always one egg which differed considerably in marking from the
greater uniformity of the rest. The " odd " egg was usually lighter
than the rest. He contributed the following short paper : —
The Odd Egg in a Clutch. — "In 1911 I had under observation
a number of nests of the House- Sparrow {Passer dontesticim) built in
the ventilators of a large building in the country.
"I found that in every nest where there was an odd egg, it was
