the last laid. I had not the opportunity to watch which egg
hatched first, so took a long series of eggs for reference, which I am
showing together with a long series, taken at the same place in
1903 for the same purpose. That the odd egg is due to failure of
colouring matter I have very great douhts, because the odd egg is
almost always marked quite differently, in some cases being blotched
W'hile the other eggs are finely speckled, and vice versa. Although
the pale eggs show more of the white ground-colour, the blotch«s
are not weak in pigment, and are what I should call, using a photo-
graphic term, sharp — not washed-out or blurred. Looking at the
various clutches I find that what is the odd egg in one clutch is
the predominant one in another, and in some clutches the last and
odd egg is the darkest.
"I have seen it stated that the influence of the male of a pair of
birds cannot afiect the colour of the egg laid by the female. What
I suggest, however, is that the colouring of the odd egg may be
affected through the male parent of the female having been hatched
from a clutch where pale eggs were dominant.
"The regularity with which the odd egg occurs points rather to
some law at work, either Mendelian or another law somewhat
analogous to it, than to a mere absence of pigment. I should
mention that in some clutches of five there is no odd egg at all.
This may be caused through both the grandparents being from a
stock which laid pale eggs or vice versa, as I have both pale and
dark clutches without an odd egg.
"On the other hand, I have clutches of six where there are two
odd eggs. . That the odd egg is laid by the same female and not
deposited by another, as I have seen suggested, is I think proved in
one clutch, in which all the eggs are of the same peculiar shape,
and in another in which all the eggs have a fault in the shell — a
small bump — in the same position in each egg.
" I have a clutch of six eggs of the Linnet AcantJiis {Carduelis)
cannabina : five have the ground-colour white, and the sixth and
last egg laid has a bright blue-green ground-colour. All the eggs
have the markings normal.
" I have two clutches (five and six) of eggs of the Sparrow-Hawk
{Accipiter 7iistts) with white ground-colour and deep brown markings,
with the exception of the last egg laid, which in each case has a
pale blue ground-colour and bright red markings. In one clutch
four eggs have violet underlying markings ; in the fifth and last
egg these are absent.
"The odd egg, however, is not the last laid with all species. Last
