84
year 1 found a nest of a Snipe (Gallinarfo gallinago) with two eggs
only, one dark, the other pale. Subsequently two more pale eggs
were laid. Of course I cannot be certain, but I should be inclined
to say that the dark egg was the first laid, judging by my experi-
ence with other nests of this species and the Redshank, where the
dark Qgg has been the first laid. I also found a nest of the
Meadow-Pipit [Anthus jjratensis) with one egg dark brown, and
three pale grey. The following day a further pale grey Qgg was
laid, which completed the clutch.
"In looking through my series I find in clutches of Robin, White-
throat, Great Tit, Golden-crested Wren and M-igpie, where there is
an odd egg it is pale, but in those of the Blackbird, Carrion-Crow,
Curlew, Tree-Pipit, Meadow-Pipit, Lesser Tern, Common Tern,
Skylark, Kestrel, Redshank, Snipe, and Corn-Bunting, both pale
and dark eggs occur, whereas in the Lapwing and Kentish Plover
the ground-colour is sometimes paler or darker in one egg, the
surface-markings being pretty equal in all eggs in the clutch.
Ringed Plover clutches do not as a rule contain an odd Qgg, but
I have one in which three eggs are blotched and the fourth finely
spotted, and another clutch is exactly the reverse."
MARCH 27th, 1915.
Field Meeting at Oxshott and Claygate.
Leader, W. J. Kaye, F.E.S.
To hold a Field Meeting at so early a date was quite an innova-
tion. It was thought by the Council that given suitable weather
there would be the possibility of procuring several of the early
species of Lepidoptera in some number. Fate, however, was not
favourable, for the wind was biting, and although the ramble was a
very pleasant one, leading as it did through grounds that are usually
closed to the naturalist, nothing was recorded except a solitary
specimen of Hibeniia lencopJuearia.
APRIL 8th, 1915.
Mr. W. J. Kaye, F.E.S. , in the chair.
Mr. Stanley Edwards exhibited specimens of the N. American
butterfly Vapilio ajax with its seasonal dimorphic form telamonides.
