87
is not dissimilar to that of the horse chestnut in appearance.
The Catalpas belong to the Biynoniacece.
2. A witches' broom formed on larch by the fungus Exoaacus
tnrgidus. This fungus coramonl}' forms •witches' brooms on birch,
but also at times on chestnut, hazel, hornbeam, alder, cherry,
elm, pine, and other treee. Sometimes these brooms are of large
dimensions.
3. Cherines pini. — The pine aphis, on young Scots' pine, to which
it often causes considerable damage.
Mr. R. A. R. Priske exhibited long and varied series of the land
molluscs, Helix aspersa, H. aibiistonnn and Cijloatotna eleyana.
Mr. Colthrup exhibited a large number of varieties of the eggs of
the tree pipit, meadow pipit and skylark, together with a consider-
able number of clutches of eggs of various species, each containing
a cuckoo's egg, and pointed out the apparent resemblance to the egg
of the foster-parent in many instances.
Mr. Smallman exhibited : —
(1) A selected series of Blackbird's eggs showing range of color
and shape, including one with a very rough and hard shell of dull
lavender colour, and one very small egg.
(2) A similar series of Robin's eggs ranging from dark fuscous
to pure white.
Mr. Main exhibited the living larvfe of the fire-fly, Lnciola italica,
bred from ova laid in June, 1914, at Lugano. They had fed upon
portions of slugs. He also showed a specimen of the Neuropteron
yeiitoptera coa obtained by Mr. Bowman at Cintra.
Mr. Frohawk exhibited an egg of the ivory gull [Paynphila ebnrnea),
collected by F. G. Jackson at Cape Mary Harmswortb, Franz Josef
Laud, August 7th, 1897 ; previous to this expedition only four
specimens of this egg had been recorded ; and he also showed a
clutch of four eggs of the great or solitary snipe [Gallinaijo tnajor)
from St. Petersburg, 23rd May, 1906.
MAY 13th, 1915.
Mk. a. E. Tonge, F.E.S., Vice-President, in the chair.
Mr. Leeds exhibited several aberrations of each of the following
species : —
A. Fulyommattis icartis.
