88
(1) Ab. obsoleta (only one small spot being present on the under
•sarface) ; from Herts.
(2) An asymmetrical 3 aberration approaching ab. obsoleta, with
Ihe marginal row of eyespots somewhat indistinct ; from Hunts.
(3) An underside S" with chocolate band across all wings ; from
Hunts.
(4) An upperside S" sbot with brilliant metallic blue ; from
Herts.
B. Aijriades thetis [hellaiyus).
(1) A female with antennte malformed, club larger and attached
to stem somewhat crosswise ; from Kent.
(2) A pair of males with aberrant spotting on undersides ;
from Kent.
(3) A female with upperside bluish and absence of orange in the
.marginal eye spots ; from Kent.
C. C(en(Hiy)iipha pamphilus.
(1) A specimen with very dark suffused underside ; from Herts.
(2) An underside with small additional ocelli on each forewing
iind an additional black spot beneath ; from Herts.
D. Ayriaden coridon.
(1) Ab. seiiiisynyyapha ; from Herts.
(2) An underside ^ with very smoky ground ; from Herts.
(3) A male with slaty suffused underside ; from Kent.
(4) Two upperside ? s with khaki streaks ; from Herts.
E. Paraiye (pgeria.
(1) The ordinary English form ? ; from Hunts. (This form is
rightly, var. egerides.)
(2) Two Cornish forms in which the tawny markings were much
-enlarged in area and very brilliant, thus resembling the form (cyeria
AS obtained in the southern countries of Europe.
F. Epinephele jnrtina [janira).
A female with strongly ochreous undersides ; from Hunts.
G. Pier is bi'assicce.
An underside female with a pale blue tinge throughout, there
being no trace of orange ; from Monks Wood, Hunts., Aug., 1908.
Mr. Robert Adkin exhibited a short series of a hybrid between
Biston hirtaria c^ and Nyssia lapponaria $ . The males, although
they in size and shape closely approached the male N. lapponaria,
had the wings well clothed as in the male B. hirtaria, and their
markings in two out of three specimens most resembled that
species, but in the third they were nearer N. lapponaria, but more
densely scaled. The females had aborted wings, in general facies
