89
very like those of the hybrid N. zonaria g and B. Idrtaria $ .
The specimens were reared by Mr. G. Harrison of Birtley.
Mr. H. Moore exhibited a specimen of Aclwrontia {Manduca)
atropos from South Africa, sent to him by post enclosed in a letter.
It was in excellent condition. It was remarked that the other two
species of the genus, A. sti/x and A. lachesis, were eastern in their
distribution.
Mr. Curwen exhibited long series of Polyommatus eros J s and
Latiorina orbitulus, the former from Saas Grund, and the latter
from the Grisons area. Both Mr. Gibbs and Mr. Hy. J. Turner
had met with the two species at St. Moritz, Engadine, and the
latter remarked on the drinking habit of the former species, which
he had frequently seen rise from patches of moisture on the road
in small clouds as he passed.
Mr. B. S. Williams exhibited living larvse of Odezia atiata feeding
on Ci/tisus, and a series of Xantlwrho'e [Melanippe) fiuctnata showing
much variation in ground colour, one example was very clear of the
indefinite markings on the ground, while at the other extreme was
a form approaching ab. neapoUsata. Both exhibits were from
Finchley.
Mr. Cowham exhibited a number of specimens he had obtained in
Argentina :
(1) Several large Psychid cases, which he stated were abundant
in many parts of the country on the branches of trees. (They were
afterwards found to be cases of Oeketicns platenais).
(2) A large and conspicuous species of " Skipper " with a light
transverse band across the disc of all four wings, upper- and under-
sides and a brilliant red tip to the abdomen. (It was afterwards
found to be (JUnides pluenicola),
(3) Specimens of Colias lesbia var. pynhothea, one of the few
stragglers of the genus which penetrates into the Neotropical
Region. Mr. Cowham stated that there was a lighter form which
corresponds to our ab. helice of C. ediisa but that it was quite
uncommon. It is known as ab. heliceoides.
(4) An example of an Arctiid Kcpanthera indecha J .
Mr. Step exhibited some examples of Fulgurites, the remarkable
tubes formed by the passage of lightning through sand, when the
siliceous grains become fused and form a primitive kind of glass.
For these specimens he was indebted to Mr. J. H. L. Atkinson,
H.M. Vice-Consul at Cuyaba, in Brazil. Readers of Darwin's
" Voyage of the Beagle " would remember his description of the
finding of such tubes in " a broad band of sand hillocks which
