90
separate the Laguna del Potrero from the shores of the Plata, at
the distance of a few miles from Maldonado." The exhibitor con-
sidered that a particular interest attached to his specimens because
they had been obtained from the small area of pand described by
Darwin more than eight}' years earlier. At that date fulgurites
were little known — they can scarcely be said to be well-known at
the present time — and Darwin refers to some that had been found
at Drigg, in Cumberland, which had been described in vol. ii. of
the Geological Transactions. In recent years they have been found
also in a district in Poland, but they do not appear to have become
common objects anywhere. This fact probably indicates that
special qualities of sand or local conditions favour the fusibility of
the grains. It is believed that the tubes are cylindrical when
formed, but that their shape is altered by local pressure before
cooling takes place.
Mr. J. Piatt Barrett exhibited series of Thais ]>olyxena, Lencnchloe
[Pontia) daplulice, Eiichloe {Anthocharis) belia {craiiieri] and Antho-
charis [Enchlo'e) cardamines and contributed the following notes : —
" I am showing four species of butterflies, which may be termed
"variable," in fact with them " vatiation is the rule" and not
the exception, and after careful examination it would be probably
correct to say that no two specimens are exactly alike. A small
dot may be enlarged, a blotch altered in shape, colouring slightly
altered and so on; yet on the whole there remains a wonderful
uniformity in the 65 specimens comprising this exhibit.
(1) Thais polyxena is a very striking species and should show at
least one of the abnormal forms, var. runtina, with extra red spots,
var. Cassandra blacker, ab. ochracea dark instead of light yellow,
ab. meta red spots replaced by yellow, or ab. bella the third costal
spot reduced in size, but only one of my specimens differs a little
and may approach ab. ochracea. I have only met with L. polyxena
on one slope in Sicily, and this may account for getting no varieties.
(2) Leucocklo'e [Pontia) daplidice. — A new genus has recently
been created for daplidice and another species, and is differentiated
from the ordinary "whites" [Pieris) by the sub-costal vein, which
has three branches (Pj>>7s has four and Anthocharis i\ve). Certainly
daplidice seems to agree more closely to Knchlo'e [Anthocharis) belia
[crameri) than to Pieris or to Anthocharis, and it would not do much
harm if the Leucochloes and the Euchloes were combined in one
genus. L. (P.) daplidice is very common both in Sicily and in
Calabria and two so-called abnormal forms are shown, (1) var.
bellidice the spring form, which is smaller and darker green, and
