THE INSTITUTE OF FRANCE 7
French literature. Strange to say the leaders of the Eevolution did
not interfere with the work of the professors of the college, but even
increased their pay. They changed the name Koyal to National, but
otherwise approved and favored the institution. This fact alone is
sufficient to indicate the place which it was filling and the affection the
people had for it.
It was one of the few institutions in which every one seemed to
have confidence. Napoleon added a chair for Turkish, Louis XVIII.
one for Sanscrit and one for Chinese. In 1874 a chair was established
for instruction in political economy. Since that time other chairs
have been added, till it is now possible in this college to receive instruc-
tion from competent men in well-nigh every branch of learning.
This college is peculiar in the liberties it grants its students. There
are no examinations, no diplomas, no degrees. One listens to such pro-
fessors as one wishes, comes and goes as one likes. There are no
registrations. The more famous the lecturer and the more popular
the subject, the larger the audience. Few, save specialists, care for
the lectures on Hebrew or Chinese. Those on French literature are
the most popular. The largest of the nine lecture halls is then
crowded. Women are always present. Those on Latin literature are
fairly well attended, as are those on the middle ages, those on esthet-
ics, those on the history of art and those on morals. It was on this last
topic that Michelet delivered his famous course and was heard each
succeeding year with increased interest. Yet this college with its forty
professors, while affording the very best advantages for those earnest
and faithful students who are able to appreciate the value of its
lectures, is not well suited to the wants of young men and young
women who care less for hard work than for personal pleasure. There
are two semesters, the first beginning the first week in December, the
second the week after Easter. Vacation begins between July 20 and
July 30.
The University of Paris
A very different institution is the University of Paris, which, with
the colleges grouped around it, like the Navarre and the Sorbonne,
has been in the front rank of European universities since the end of
the twelfth century. It became prominent, indeed, about the year
1170. It grew out of the schools connected with the churches of
Notre Dame, St. Genevieve and St. Victor, and for some years the
chancellor of Notre Dame claimed the right, as the quasi head of the
university, to grant its licenses. A charter for a corporation with
special privileges was given by Philip Augustus in 1200, and seven
years later the students of the university were allowed an ecclesiastical
trial. By 1229 the contests between townsmen and students had be-
come so frequent and so bitter that many of the latter went over to
