COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 139
will be indicated by similar variation in the nature of the color. In
many ring compounds where no such arrangement of linkings, as in
the benzoid and quinoid classes, is seen, almost no evidence of color
can be found. Furfuran, pyrol, camphor and many others of a con-
stitution exhibiting double linkings show only general absorption in
their spectra. But whenever the benzoid type is present, no matter
whether the ring be composed entirely of carbon atoms or not, the
conditions for isorropesis are at once favored so soon as unsaturated
atoms or groups can be introduced. These groups by their unsaturated
condition give rise to new Unkings and then in turn undergo the
make-and-break characteristic of substances showing selective absorp-
tion.
Indeed we come to the conclusion that isorropesis is the cause of
color in the aromatic series as well as in the aliphatic series. In both
series the two modifications which must always be in statu nascendi
bave actually been shown to exist. The change of linking, therefore,
that must accompany the transformation of one into the other is cer-
tainly to be considered as the source of the oscillations which give
rise to vibrations in the ether of a free period corresponding to those
in the visible region of the spectrum, and hence the development of
color in the substance. The application of these ideas to the interpre-
tation of color among inorganic compounds is yet to be made. There
seems, however, no doubt but that, where residual affinity exists, there
may arise some form of oscillation, caused by the make-and-break of
these induced linkings as brought about by the molecular movements,
which will record itself in definite vibratory motions of the ether and
consequently, if these vibrations are of low enough frequency, will
indicate color in the compound. Not until something of a more
definite nature is known as regards the true spatial arrangement of
the atoms in these compounds, can anything of positive value be postu-
lated concerning the disturbances which certain atoms may bring to
bear upon other atoms or groups of atoms in the molecule. Conse-
quently the periods of oscillation that correspond to many of our well
known colored salts have received no explanation in terms of those
periods so definitely established among the carbon compounds; periods
which through spectroscopic evidence have been made to reveal so much
concerning the internal vibrations of the atoms in the molecule and
of the disturbances within the atoms themselves.
