i4o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
GEEMAN INFLUENCE IN LATIN AMEEICA
BY ALFRED F. SEARS, C. E.
PORTLAND, ORB.
I. Magnitude and Character of German Immigration
[~N 1901 the American citizen was startled by the information from
-*- Eio Janeiro, that " A German syndicate has just been formed
with a capital of 25,000,000 Marks, with the object of colonizing in
Brazil, the states of Eio Grande do Sul, Sao Paulo, Santa Catarina,
Parana, Minas Garaes and Goyas. The government has guaranteed
5 per cent, interest on the investment in the enterprise."
At about the same time a further statement was published to the
effect that the powers of Europe are combining to overthrow our
formidable Monroe doctrine, through a society recently organized in
Eome for colonization by Italians in various sections of Brazil.
American newspapers declared " the German problem in South
America to have been brought sharply to the attention of the national
administration by this despatch " made the subject of editorials more
or less intelligent all over the land. Some of the newspapers were
sufficiently sane to offer their readers definite figures on which to base
judgment of American duty. Generally, the patriotic bias developed
but little jingoism in the complacent American press. Washington,
from the heart of things, assured the nation that Germany is our firm
friend, innocent of all design against the bogie we have raised on our
neighbors' towers.
While the passion of suspicion concerning the Kaiser's intention
was yet alive, the writer was in South America to execute a scientific
commission. He had previously spent sixteen years of active profes-
sional life in Mexico, Central and South America and believed that he
could serve the interests of his country and the impulse of an improved
civilization by presenting data for the intelligent consideration of
questions involved in foreign colonization schemes among our southern
neighbors and illustrating the results to be reached by Teutonic influ-
ence among the elements of Latin American life, now so grossly amal-
gamated with aboriginal barbarism, the slave and tool of Spanish
medieval ecclesiasticism, which breeds and fosters social and political
immorality.
With this end in view, he addressed a circular to official represen-
tatives of all the republics in these continents, soliciting a state-
ment of:
