142 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
a most desirable class of citizens. The reader will observe that the
mass of German immigration has settled in the temperate zones of the
continent, avoiding the tropics. Thus we find 32,000 or more are
colonized in Chile and Argentina, regions extending as far south as
forty degrees from the equator, while the Brazilian colonies of Sao
Paulo, Parana and Eio Grande do Sul are in the south of the republic,
extending to thirty-five degrees below the equator and containing the
mass of the German population, though there are some thousands in
the tropical state of Minas Geraes lying between fourteen and twenty-
three degrees south of the equator, a mountain mining region, where
altitude supersedes latitude in the comfort of temperature.
There is no considerable condensation of Germans in colonies, save
in Brazil, Chile and Argentina, there being but 20,000 of them dis-
tributed among the other thirteen states of the continent. These people
are generally engaged in commerce and trade. In the commercial
cities the jewelry business and that of money exchange are almost
universally conducted by Germans, generally Jews, who, when not so
engaged, are devoted to some other branch of city retail trade. The
subjects of this religious faith are excellent citizens and are always
appealed to for assistance in public charities; they are more popular
as municipal officers than pronounced protestant christians of any
nationality. Leading commercial houses in all the republics have
German branches operated by young men sent out from the mother
country to conduct the American end of their business. It is quite the
rule for these men to marry in the country, nor do they condescend
to the inferior classes. Their positions are guarantees of character,
so that they have access to the best families, differing in this from
the English and Americans, who rarely marry with people of the Latin
republics.
The blue eyes, fair hair, clear complexions and general bonhomie
of the Germans make them singularly attractive companions to the
merry, black-eyed brunette of our southern neighbors. By his won-
derful adaptation to the national customs and popular convention, with
his extraordinary ability in the mastery of language foreign to his
native tongue, his absolute grammatical accuracy in construction with
correct pronunciation, he becomes an accomplished member of society,
a valuable citizen, a desirable neighbor and an agreeable companion;
while the American, like the Englishman, always aggressive, often
offensively so, rarely attains a command of the language superior to a
" gringo " idiom and contemptuously mentions the people among whom
he lives as " the natives," implying their slight remove in his conception
from the aboriginees.
But the Englishman is better regarded than the average American,
because he goes among the people as the contracted agent or clerk of
a reputable commercial house, while the American is rarely other than
