146 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
them during all these centuries, superstitious devotees of the church,
without a conception of modesty or chastity as recognized by our
civilization. Eeports of prefects of departments and governors of
states annually present records of an unwholesome condition of public
morality, often indicated by the exorbitant proportion of illegitimate
births in a population generally amounting throughout Latin America
to from 25 to 40 per cent, of the entire number in a republic.
At a meeting of the American Social Science Association, held in
Washington in April, 1901, Ex-Secretary John W. Foster said of the
Latin American republics : " The great mass of their populations are
ignorant and uneducated; in many of the countries they do not even
read and write the official language of their governments, and as a rule
have no part in the elections." It has been claimed for the Spanish
missionaries that they taught the Mexicans all over that country the
Spanish language. Nothing can be farther from the truth. In a
population of 14,000,000 not more than 4,000,000 speak the language
of the government. When the railroad companies have had to employ
laborers from the Sierras, they have been obliged to bring with each
gang an interpreter who speaks the dialect of the tribe and Spanish,
which the native does not understand.
These details are mentioned, not to prove, but to illustrate, a condi-
tion known beyond the necessity for proof by every intelligent citizen
of the world. Every soldier from the Spanish islands learned the fact by
personal contact; travelers from all over Christendom who have visited
those regions know the truth and entertain their friends with the re-
cital. The thousands of Spanish prisoners to American arms in Cuba,
transported to their homes, are become missionaries against the tyranny
of their native church. All over Spain they have proceeded with vio-
lence against an institution that contact with the free thought of
America has taught them to hate as the enemy of human rights; the
auxiliary of tyrants " clad in the livery of heaven."
This corrupt ecclesiastical system, still striving to hold in subver-
sion the consciences of 60,000,000 human souls in this western conti-
nent, is tottering in its power under the contempt of the educated
classes, its tyrannical masters and the hatred of the common people,
with the progressive intelligence of the popular conscience, to which
the clergy is being continually forced to make unwilling concessions.
It is also to be observed that contact with the Saxon world is stimu-
lating the Latin factor of it to shake off the yoke of that ecclesiasticism
which has debauched and, in every moral, intellectual and spiritual
sense, degraded the masses to be the scum of the world's populations.
At last, the head of the Latin church has aroused to the alarming fact
of a great western awakening. Associated press despatches tell us that
on June 28, 1903, the pope called tbe bishop of Ibague (Colombia) to
an audience, in which he is reported to have conversed on conditions
