GERMAN INFLUENCE IN LATIN AMERICA 147
prevailing in the South American republics and the " necessity of
raising the standard of the clergy so that they may contribute to the
better intellectual and moral condition and progress of the people of
those countries." The clerical apprehension of approaching danger is
shown in various attempts to hide or destroy ancient insignia of idola-
trous superstition; thus, witness on the fagade of the church of La
Merced in Lima, the capital of Peru, there existed up to a few years
ago the following inscription upon a fillet over the grand portal, " In-
dulgencia, plenaria, cuotidiana, perpetua por los vivos y los difuntos."
It has now been removed under the sneers of an advancing civilization
of the people and the sensitiveness of all to the comment of foreigners.
This is but a single instance among many illustrating the trend of,
a growing influence among the people, obliging the clergy to abandon
its methods and pretensions. A half century ago, the priest in bless-
ing the national troops in Costa Eica walked over the abased national
flag to sprinkle it and the troops with holy water. To-day the flag is
laid reverently upon a table and the priest walks around it in the per-
formance of the ceremony.
Probably the story of the priest, Francisco Pablo De Vigil D.D.,
of Lima, is the most comprehensive illustration of the condition of life
in its relation to the features here treated that can be presented in one
single biography. This distinguished theologian, scholar and states-
man was excommunicated from his church because he refused to accept
the dogma of papal infallibility. Notwithstanding his expulsion, he
continued to wear the ecclesiastical garb and the tonsure and to attend
the functions of the church, occupying a seat among the laity. He
had warm friends and sympathizers among the lower clergy, but could
not receive absolution after confession, since he refused to renounce his
error. The national government, recognizing his purity of character,
his high degree of scholarship and devotion to liberty of thought,
placed him in charge of the national museum, which is a great educa-
tional institution of Lima, and brought him into close intellectual
contact with the students of the university, so that in this position he
had the largest field he had ever yet possessed for influencing the grow-
ing mind of the nation. While occupying this station, he died. His
death and funeral were as full of interest in the world of thought as his
life had been. A personal friend in the priesthood attended him in the
last hour and received his confession, but had been expressly forbidden
to give him absolution, unless he renounced his error. His confessor
relates that he was weeping as he knelt by the bedside of his dying
friend, who laid his hand tenderly upon his head and said, " Don't
weep for me, dear brother, but for the archbishop, whom you but obey;
I am going before a greater judge than he." The body was refused
admission to the church of La Merced for the ordinary requiem mass,
and the clergy also refused the certificate required for burial in the
