148 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
" Pantheon general," which, while " consecrated," is the property of
the municipality. This body immediately, by municipal ordinance, au-
thorized the interment of the body of Dr. Vigil within its consecrated
grounds. When the body was brought from the house to be laid in
the hearse awaiting its reception, a body of students stepped forward
and took it upon their shoulders, bearing it reverently to the chapel of
the cemetery.
But now, another surprise awaited the wondering public. As the
funeral cortege moved along the streets of the city, processions of Free
Masons in full regalia poured from the side streets and followed the
train. On reaching the chapel, Masons took charge and conducted
the burial service, in the name of human liberty; and in the chapel,
which had been consecrated by the church, but was owned by the
municipality. The same order conducted the ceremonies at the grave,
with the solemn earnestness of men, who understood the act to be a
declaration of independence against ecclesiastical tyranny. The higher
clergy beheld the spectacle with fear and indignation, while the priests
smiled solemnly to see their bishop defied in his own capital. None
of them had dreamed that a masonic lodge existed in their midst;
to-day the handsomest, best built and most modern structure in the
commercial city of Callao is the Masonic temple.
Since then the city of Tacna, capital of a southern department of
Peru, has erected a fine marble monument to the memory of Dr. Pablo
Francisco De Vigil, who was a native son of that town.
This entire episode, in its defiance of the clergy, illustrates the
longing for liberty in the better classes of Latin America. But, in all
these republics, there is more actual liberty of conscience than is al-
lowed by the written law, which, often angrily cited by the clergy, finds
itself in such antagonism to the higher law of the popular conscience,
that the courts of ultimate authority manage to fail of finding it in the
statute books, written as it is under the unwritten decrees of an ad-
vancing civilization.
III. German Influence in Latin America
It is an interesting fact that in all the vigorous eloquence of the
American press and politician, touching " German influence " in these
continents, the real matter of German influence has not once been con-
sidered. European monarchism, interpreted by the Kaiser, has excited
the patriotic bias of the republican citizen, as if the ambition of
Csesarism can ever establish its order among a people who have fought
for and conquered their independence. German imperial power must
not be confounded with German influence, which has been potent on
this continent for more than a half century and will continue to be as
long as Germany occupies her present transcendent position in the uni-
verse of thought.
