GERMAN INFLUENCE IN LATIN AMERICA 149
It is not to be disputed that the German business man, whether in
commerce or in the industrial professions, assumes always in Latin
America a positive antagonism to the American from these states, often
violent and offensive. This action is partly the exhibition of his in-
flated vanity and partly proceeds from his spirit of business rivalry.
Dr. Herman Meyer, a founder of a German colony in southern
Brazil, in an address before the Berlin Colonial Society, said, in
December, 1904, that United States merchants are trying to win the
trade of the German settlers in Brazil and that therefore it will be
necessary to assist the colonies with German capital for the purpose of
building railroads and creating industrial establishments.
The pronounced opinion of Dr. Vosberg-Bekow, director of the
Bureau of Commercial Treaties, before a meeting of Leipzig merchants,
that " Germany must have annexation of more territory beyond the sea,
with the organization and the direction of emigration thereto " ; the
warning of the Italian admiral, Count Canevare, that " European
nations may have to consider the necessity of uniting against America/'
with the concurrent expression of Count Goluchowski, the Austrian
minister of foreign affairs, are not agreeable trumpetings across the
seas, but they bear no relation to the power or character of the German
influence at present existing in these western continents.
A positive and powerful German influence, the grand ally of the
Americanism of free opinion with its expression, is exercised in all
countries settled by German immigration; it is radically liberal in
religion and politics, without the element of anarchism; antimon-
archistic and altogether contemptuous of conditions existing in the
countries of its adoption.
This statement requires qualification when treating of the larger
" assisted " colonies which contain inferior classes of population. Thus
in Brazil a considerable proportion of the German immigration is of
peasantry of Baden-Baden, whose people, the last to be joined in the
German confederacy, came into the empire through conquest. The
ruling power of the principality is protestant in religion, while two
thirds of the population is Bomanistic, and furnishes the element which
is peopling the southern states of Brazil. They are, in the main, a
thick-headed, patient, industrious race, repaying the Prussian contempt
with sincerely cordial hatred. They find in Brazil a mentally stimu-
lating life, an emancipation from protestant though liberal rule, allow-
ing them an assumption of superiority over the natives of the new
country. Their priests are men of character, superior to the native
clergy in every element of intellectual, moral and spiritual life, while
they possess a fair degree of learning and are devoted pastors. But
these German peasants of Brazil are superstitious and illiterate when
compared with the Germans, scattered over the continent as merchants,
clerks, brokers, bankers, planters and teachers. Their influence on
