iSo POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the natives of the region where they live is but trifling, save in the
particular of their superior morality, which is believed to be an eleva-
ting example, while, like all Germans, everywhere, they grow in their
new soil towards liberal thought, being removed from the repressive
influence of European old age. They are not in any sense subjects
of German imperial power, but are the tenants of commercial com-
panies. So that, while they are German colonists, they are not colonies
of Germany.
If the material results thus far accomplished by the German govern-
ment in its attempts at national colonization be the best that power
is able to produce, it will appear an empty vanity to attempt further
enterprises of the kind, save for the improvement of congested popula-
tions. In colonies of the empire, covering an area of 2,500,000 square
miles there is a white population of 6,000 souls, of whom 4,000 are
Germans, who in one year (1901) succeeded in producing a deficit of
$7,000,000 above an income of $8,000,000. American Consul Harris
at Eibenstock has said : " The ideal relation of a colony to the mother
country is that which permits the colony to produce the raw material
which the mother country will receive and return to the colony in a
manufactured condition; but, in accordance with an irresistible law
of economics, a colony with great material resources will gradually
emancipate itself from the mother country. It is doubtful whether
this will shortly be true of any of the present colonies of Germany.
In almost every part of the world where her acquisitions are situated,
there is in the same immediate neighorhood a colony of Great Britain
or some other country better able to produce colonial products."
The only considerable collected German colonies, in other of the
Latin American republics, are in Guatemala, Chile and Argentina.
In Guatemala there is a German element of great respectability and
influence amounting to real power, which promises more for an ad-
vancing civilization of the entire mass of population than is apparent
in Chile or Argentina. But, in all three of these republics are German
populations, not included in colonies, which must be considered with
similar classes in every other Latin American state. These people are
distributed all through those states, but are found more generally in
the large towns and cities. They represent important material interests
and are the potent " leaven which leaveneth the whole lump."
The influence of this portion on the communities in which they
live differs curiously from that of the French, as is seen illustrated in
the cities of Mexico and Panama, where the French have, during cer-
tain periods, been the controlling power in social life. The women
of the upper classes of those cities, which have known French influence,
no longer hesitate to appear on the streets clad in comely array, wearing
bright colors in dress, with hats or bonnets in place of the sombre black
suit of gown and mantilla. Thirty years ago, every woman in the
