8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Oxford, where they remained for two years, or till the decision of Pope
Gregory IX. so favored the students that they felt it safe to return to
Paris. It was in this university that William of Champeaux and
Abelard taught. Early in its history there were the four faculties of
theology, law, medicine and the arts. In the department of the arts
there were as many students as in the other three departments of the
university combined. Hence in the " congregation," or board of control,
the masters of the arts department had four votes, while each of the
other departments had but one each. About 1250, Thomas Aquinas,
Alexander Hales and Saint Bonaventura were members of the theo-
logical faculty. Their refusal to take the oath of allegiance to the
university, on the ground that their obligations were to the church, was
the beginning of legislation which continued for seven years and ended
only with the decision of the Pope that mendicants, or members of
orders in the church, should have the same right to teach in the uni-
versity as the regular masters. The outcome of this struggle was the
establishment of several colleges which were grouped around the uni-
versity, but were in a measure independent of it.
The university was at the height of its fame in the fourteenth and
fifteenth centuries. Students nocked to it from every part of Europe.
By order of Xapoleon it was made in 1808 a part of the University
of France, and deprived of the rights it had enjoyed as an independent
institution. Since 1898, when the law of 1896 under which fifteen
universities in France were recognized and made substantially auton-
omous, it has regained a good deal of its former authority, although
the universities are still to a certain extent under the control of the
minister of public instruction. But the government, while providing
for the support of the professors, no longer provides new buildings for
the universities, equips laboratories, or buys books for the libraries.
For these increasing needs, local gifts are expected. In the larger
cities these have not failed. The increase in attendance, therefore,
has been in the universities belonging to the larger cities. There were
in the University of Paris in 1904 nearly 13,000 students. It is now-
one of the best equipped universities in the world. Its professors are
among the most famous in the world. The opportunities it furnishes
for study are not surpassed by any university in Germany.
The Sorhonne
The Sorbonne, one of the most noted colleges in existence, was
founded by Bobert de Sorbon, chaplain of Louis IX.. October 21, 1250.
His object was to provide for the support of poor young men while
in training for service in the church. Although the students had been
divided into four nations, Picardv, France, Xormandy, England, in
the hope and belief that they would aid each other through this closer
