GERMAN INFLUENCE IN LATIN AMERICA 151
Panama cathedral was arrayed in black and even her head was covered
with a black manta; there being no pews, she knelt on the stone floor
throughout the service. Since the French began the work of the canal,
the church has been supplied with pews and the women are wearing in
the services the hats and bonnets of Parisian fashion with gowns and
wraps a la mode.
German influence, on the contrary, so far as I have discovered,
seems not to have affected the fashions of dress or social customs of
the people, but is revolutionary to an extraordinary degree in its effect
on the mental attitude towards the elements of civilization in politics
and religion and the education of the youth. Many native fathers
send their sons to Heidelberg, rather than to Freiburg, the school of
their faith, though generally scientific students begin their studies at
the technical institutions of the United States and finish them with
two years at the Polytechnic School of Paris.
Notwithstanding the fact that German antagonism to mental and
spiritual tyranny is awaking the popular sense to freedom, the molding
of social conditions and the philosophic thought are distinctly French.
The truth is the Latin spirit is French rather than German, so that
Paris and not Berlin is shaping the social life of Latin America. The
civilized world regards in wonder the spectacle of 60,000,000 people,
who have thrown off the yoke of Spain, suffering in sullen silence the
tyrannical imposition of an institution more strictly Spanish than any
political monarchism they had ever known.
But the church in Latin America is to-day brought face to face with
an army of organized thought, invulnerable to the senile bulls of
ecclesiasticism. As Victor Emanuel was able in the interest of Italian
unity to discuss the forbidden questions of the usurpation of civil power,
in the privacy of the Masonic Lodge with his brother princes of Italy,
so masonry is to-day, throughout Latin America, the safe and sacred
cradle of liberty, an important instrument aiding to emancipate the
state from priestly tyranny.
Masonry is making great strides in all the republics since the estab-
lishment of the new kingdom of Italy, which has been a lesson in
method to the advocates of liberty of opinion, who have learned its
value in freeing them from the espionage of those who mold and bind
the shackles of thought. Its adherents are everywhere the advocates
of the separation of church and state. Visible progress towards this
desirable end is slow, but as sure as the irresistible march of time.
In this developing menace, the German has been the grandly potent
factor throughout those regions. Everywhere he is the active leader
in freedom of thought and in the conduct of masonic lodges. As it is
not permitted to teach protestantism, a German, the grand master of
the Peruvian orient, has established a newspaper in Lima, the capital
city of Peru, which he calls the Libre Pensador, which is doing
