INTERNATIONAL SPEECH 155
love in one's heart for the beauty of their literatures; it is quite
another, and a different thing, to endure years of joyless toil, ac-
quiring a smattering of many tongues in order to gain a mere technical
ability to read the facts of science internationally. What wanton
brain-waste is here. Scientific investigation and discovery are of no
nation, of no language, but to be in possession of the knowledge of
them, in the present crude stage of our social development, we must
learn a half-score of the national languages in a way that is subver-
sive to all mental discipline, to all culture. Either we are skated
over the thin ice of a " conversational course," getting our vocabulary
with our breath between glides, and with grammar served daintily,
like Nabisco wafers at a luncheon. Or we have had, let us say, the
good average representative " language course " in school and col-
lege. We have " pried over " from one language into another endless
imbecile sentences, involving the fact that Marie, when she shall have
had a lead pencil will have been happy; that Henry's uncle, who is
about to return from Frankfurt, desires an inkstand for his little
sister; or concerning the ravages committed by the red cow of the
good grandmother in the green garden of the rich count. We have
read a half dozen plays; have rendered slowly, dully, baldly, into
" translation English," a few hundred pages, more or less, of standard
prose and verse — and we have "had " French, we have "had" Ger-
man. How many of us must testify to the inadequacy of the average
" required " courses in language to give appreciation for foreign
literatures, while of course their utter inefficiency, so far as the direct
conversational use of these tongues is concerned, must be self-evident,
in view of the laughter-provoking absurdities in style and diction,
the impossible pronunciations and accents we achieve.
In one of George du Maurier's books, two little English boys in a
French school are requested by the master, proud of his own English,
to render into its English equivalent, " je voudrais pouvoir." Trans-
lated " I should like to be able " by the little Englishmen, they were
at once corrected by the master. " ISTon, non, you do not know your
native tongue. It is to say, ' I vould vill to can ' " Being then told
to translate, " je pourrais vouloir," from the small bad boys came the
alert response, " I vould can to vill."
We all know, from both literature and life, the appalling waste,
the tremendous throwing about of brains to little use, in much of
the current study of foreign languages.
Eecognizing the difficulties involved in learning the natural
tongues, the minds of men have been occupied for more than two
hundred years with projects for an artificial language that should be
the means for international communication. But the thought nat-
urally suggests itself — why should we not make use for this purpose, of
some one of the already existing idioms, developing and simplifying
