INTERNATIONAL SPEECH 157
British matron, who, on being accosted in southern France by the
phrase, " You foreigners," replied : " No, you are ' foreigners,' we are
English." To your true, insular, middle-class Englishman, all the
rest of the world, with patronizing exception of the Americans, is com-
posed of " foreigners," speaking various absurd jargons, wholly im-
possible to understand, but really quite unimportant after all.
Your American, knowing in his bones that he is a hopeless hash of
Irish, German, Scandinavian and Hebrew, with garnishings, perhaps,
of "Anglo-Saxon," — whatever that may be or ever was — is yet no whit
less provincial in his noisy assertion of the manifest destiny of the lan-
guage which he has learned to speak in a way, and with various brogues
and accents. To the language slogan of the English, he joins perforce the
American Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, both of
which are to " follow the flag " — at more or less discreet distance in
their more than Roman triumphal progress over the lands of the
hitherto unappropriated peoples waiting to be discovered and utilized.
If there be such a thing as an Anglo-Saxon idea, upon which England
and America are in perfect spiritual accord, it is that all the rest of
the unexploited races of the globe should be put at once into Derby
hats and trousers, made by the Israelites of London, ISTew York and
Chicago, to buy which, satisfactorily and abundantly, the prospective
purchasers must, of course, be made to learn " the language of Shake-
speare."
The American, who is also an idealist and under illusions, would
graft on the suffrage. " Buy our goods, wear our clothes, talk Eng-
lish and vote — for us," is the good orthodox, Anglo-American receipt
for civilization.
Suppose, however, we drop national prejudices for awhile, and
look at our language through other eyes.
Modern English is, as we know, a magnificent composite, possessing
the richest, most varied, most expressive vocabulary imaginable. As
fully heir of the polished classical tongues through the Norman
French as of the homely and rugged Teutonic stocks through the
Saxon, our English language certainly offers us a wealth of words
without compare among the civilized tongues of to-day. Add to this
a minimum of grammar, an absolute simplicity, flexibility and mobility
of structure, and why should English be other than the best possible
international form of speech?
What then are the deterrent factors which operate to hinder and
check the spread of English ? First and foremost, our absurd, impossible
and chaotic spelling. To language students, of course, the evolution
of our orthography is clearly traceable; but to the plain man of other
nations, who has not grown up in English from King Alfred, nothing
seems more witless, more grotesque,, lawless and incomprehensible
than our spelling, and its utter divorce from pronunciation.
