158 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
We spell s-l-o-u-g-h, and call it " sluff " if we refer to an abscess,
but " sloo " if we refer to a swamp, over which the wind may be said
to s-o-u-g-h — " soff." Kemove but the initial " s," and we no longer have
a swamp, but a lake — l-o-u-g-h, pronounced " loch." Change but the
" o " to " a," and we have l-a-u-g-h — " laff," but c — aru-g-h-t —
" cawt," or dr — a-u-g-h-t — " draft." Or, again we have t-o-u-g-h —
"tuff," b-o^u-g-h — "bow," t-h-r-o-u-g-h — "throo" (butth-o-r — o-u-g-h,
"thurrow"), c-o-u-g-h, " cawff," d-o-u-g-h, "doe," and p-l-o-u-g-h,
" plow."
" Coughing in the chill wind soughing through tough boughs,
which overhang the sloughy dough-like slough that joins the dismal
lough, the lonely peasant sat beside his plough/' would make good
verbal gymnastics for the ambitious foreigner.
The sound of " e-i " is one thing in freight and weight, and another
in sleight and height; and in "either" it is either eyther or eether,
while to the Irishman it is nayther.
B-o-w is the " bow " to shoot with, or the " bow " of a boat. A
man may glow with pride, or glower in wrath. We " mdw " the hay,
but put it into the " mow." We all agree to say " moon " on the one
hand, and " b5ok " on the other (except in England where they say
"book"), but some of us say "root," "roof" and "hoof," while
others say " root," " roof " and " hoof." We all of us put a " foot "
into a " boot "' just as surely as we put a " toe " into a " shoe."
Is it any wonder that our English word system seems to a foreigner
a museum of unlabeled curiosities ?
Our pronunciation and accent, peculiar in themselves, varying,
moreover, to distraction over the English-speaking world, are just as
serious stumbling-blocks to others, as, say, French and German accent
and pronunciation are to us. The six sounds of " a," the four sounds
of " e," the two of " i," the five of " " and the four of " u " give us
those delicate assonances, and that fine shading of sound in words that
makes for variety, interest and charm; but the complexity with which
those twenty-one unmarked vowels invest the correct pronunciation
of our English language is absolutely maddening to foreigners, es-
pecially since no one can possibly predict from the pronunciation of
the vowels in one word their pronunciation in any other word having
essentially the same spelling, and no one can possibly say what ex-
traordinarily diverse combinations of vowels and consonants in English
may not be pronounced exactly alike.
The very names, moreover, that we give to our vowels, and which
are their principal and most frequently recurring sounds in our words,
are, with the exception of " 0," peculiar to English alone among the
European family of languages, as applied to the letters in question.
The so-called " continental " sounds of a, e, i, 0, u, as in singing do,
re, mi, fa, are practically universal, except in the English-speaking
