THE INSTITUTE OF FRANCE o
fellowship, poverty was still pressing. Such a college as the Sorbonne
seemed to be needed. For a long time only poor students were ad-
mitted to its hospitality, and although the fare it furnished was
luxurious in comparison with that which the young men had previously
enjoyed, it was scant enough to justify the title the college received of
" pauperrima domus." During the reign of Louis 100 scholars were
lodged in it. They paid nothing. The house which the king made
over to his chaplain for the college once belonged to Jean d'Orleans,
and on its site with some additional space the present magnificent
buildings stand.
Students in the Sorbonne have always been compelled to work.
Even in the thirteenth century three severe examinations were re-
quired before one could obtain a bachelor's degree. In order to obtain
the right to teach or to be known as doctor, at least ten years' study
was necessary. Many theses were written, and their authors subjected
to many tests of scholarship. The final examination occupied an
entire day, beainnino- at 6 a.m. and closing at G P.M. There was no
CO o
intermission for food, drink or exercise. Twenty wranglers, relieving
each other every half hour, conducted the examination. They made
it as difficult as possible and did all in their power to confuse the
student.
In 1274 the Sorbonne provided courses in the humanities and
philosophy as well as in theology. Its faculty has always been very
conservative. It pronounced judgment against Jeanne d'Arc, con-
demned Luther and reform of every sort, and opposed the philosophy
of Descartes. Since the revolution there has been no theological
faculty. Instruction has been confined to literature and science.
There are schools of law and medicine in the vicinity. The literary
and scientific faculties of the university are installed in the buildings
of the Sorbonne. Here also are the libraries, both of the university and
of the college, numbering altogether about 300,000 volumes.
In 1821 the professors of the university complained that their
laboratories were too small and their examination rooms inadequate
and dark. It was in this year that the schools of the Sorbonne, which
had been closed by the revolution, were reopened. Its property had
been taken by the state in 1801. Renting it for a time, the state
finally turned it into a lodging house for artists, sculptors, painters,
architects and men of letters. .
The complaints of the university brought up the question as to
the ownership of the property. Was its title in the state or in the
university? Legislation was protracted, hut a decision rendered in
1852 gave the property to the university. Meanwhile the university
faculties continued to ask for more room. There must be, they said,
new laboratories for the proper study of chemistry, zoology and physics.
