INTERNATIONAL SPEECH 165
" Fat obas, kel binol in siils, paisaludomoz nem ola ! Komomod
monargan ola ! Jenomoz vil olik, as in sill, i su tal ! Bodi obsik
vadeliki givelos obes adelo! E pardolos obes debis obsik, as id obs
aipardobs debeles obas. E no obis nindukolos in tentadi; sod aida-
livolos obis de bad. Jenosod."
Note: Simple vowels with continental pronunciation; Umlauts
as in German; consonants as in English, except c (tch), g (always
hard), h (German ch), j (French ch), x (always ks), y (as in yoke),
z (ts) ; tonic accent always on the last syllable of the word.
The second successful attempt at devising an international form of
speech found issue in Esperanto, now apparently past the experimental
working stage, and seemingly launched upon a rising tide of popu-
larity and success. Some 100,000 people are now said to be able to
correspond in Esperanto, and a large number of these speak it fluently.
The number of the Esperanto groups seems to be increasing by leaps
and bounds, and is placed at about three hundred thus far, distrib-
uted over all the four quarters of the globe. The propaganda has
even reached Japan, which has fifteen hundred Esperantists, and a
journal published in Japanese and Esperanto, and the very latest
move appears to be the proposed invasion of China. In all about
twenty journals are devoted to Esperanto, the organs of affiliated
societies in each of the chief European states and in America. Seven
magazines are published exclusively in the language, including some
quite pretentious literary, illustrated and scientific monthlies. The
London Chamber of Commerce has adopted Esperanto as a commercial
tongue, and has organized classes and examinations in the language.
Commercial schools in England, France, Germany and Sweden are
offering courses, and in America, voluntary classes have been insti-
tuted in a number of our high schools and universities. In France,
the language has received the approbation of the minister of war and
marine, who commends it to the French military service. Finally,
Esperanto has received the unqualified and enthusiastic endorsement
and support of men eminent in language studies, the sciences and the
arts, in every important country. Among these may be cited the late
Professor Max Miiller, of Oxford, and among living Englishmen,
Professor W. W. Skeat and Sir William Eamsay; in Germany, the
great name of Ostwald stands first, while in France the language
seems to be enjoying among the intellectual elite a veritable reclame.
Academicians, university professors, professional men, are flocking in
imposing numbers to the ranks of the wearers of la verda stelo.
Berthelot, Poincare, Boirac, rector of the University of Dijon ; General
Sebert of the French army, indicate the personnel of the Esperanto
movement in France, while in far Russia, rears the titanic figure of
Count Leo Tolstoi, friend of humanity, as the champion of Esperanto
in the name of universal peace and good-will among mankind.
