INTERNATIONAL SPEECH 167
Finally, just what is Esperanto? Esperanto is the name given to
a language composed by Dr. Ludovic Lazare Zamenhof, a physician of
Warsaw in Russian Poland, born in 1859, in Bielostok in Russia, and
now, therefore, in the prime of life. His first publication, issued in
Warsaw in 1887 under the pseudonym of " Dro. Esperanto," literally
translated, " one who hopes," bore the title " Langue internationale,
Preface et manuel complet." The project, which had occupied the
author from his youth, made scarcely any impression in the first years
after its publication. Volapiik then held the field, after the utter
fiasco of which, Esperanto suffered from the effects of the general wave
of skepticism, ridicule and obloquy that followed in the wake of its
failure. It was indeed a considerable time before a new proposal for
an international language could so much as gain a hearing in Europe.
But Esperanto found a brilliant expositor, also in France, in the person
of M. Louis de Beaufront of Louviers, to whose enthusiastic adhesion
to the language in its early days is undoubtedly due to a very con-
siderable degree its present success. To an almost fanatical en-
thusiasm M. de Beaufront conjoined extraordinary talent and inge-
nuity in the exposition of the merits and claims of Esperanto, and
marked tact and cleverness in disarming its opponents. After ten
years the effects of the efforts of the founder and his supporters began
to be felt; and France soon began to teem with the Esperanto move-
ment. To-day, what began as the desperate struggle of a forlorn little
band of idealists, against contempt, ridicule and misrepresentation,
and against almost hopeless odds, has risen to the proportions of a
formidable affair of international significance, challenging the atten-
tion of rulers.
What now are definitely the claims of this remarkable tongue, the
sole achievement of a single human being, wrought unaided by a single
brain, a work of supreme genius? Without going into one slightest
detail, let it be simply said that it answers fully to all the fundamental
requirements above mentioned for an international language. Its
grammar can be read and perfectly understood in an hour. The pro-
nunciation is simplicity itself, as the letters have each but one simple
sound, and the accent rests always on the same syllable, the penult
Seventy per cent, of the word-roots will be recognized at sight by a
person of good education in English alone. The utter simplicity of
its syntax might make it appear as though such a language must neces-
sarily be bare, meager and inexpressive. On the contrary, as the result
of its extraordinary structure, it is ample, rich and full, with much
of the flexibility and mobility of English, much of the style and pre-
cision of French, not a little of the elegance and grace of Italian,
while in great measure it has the full, sonorous quality of sound and
imposing dignity of form peculiar to the Latin.
