1 68 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
By way of illustration, compare the Paternoster in Esperanto and
Latin.
Patro nia kiu estas en la cielo, Pater noster qui es in coelis,
sankta estu via nomo; sanctificetur nomen tuum;
venu regeco via; adveniat regnum tuum;
estu volo via, kiel en la cielo, nat voluntas tua, sicut in coelo,
tiel ankau sur la tero. et in terra.
Panon nian ciutagan donu al ni Panum nostrum quotidianum da nobis
hodiau; hodie;
kaj pardonu al ni suldojn niajn, et dimitte nobis debita nostra,
kiel ni ankau pardonas al niaj sul- sicut et nos dimittimus debitoribus
dantoi; nostris;
kaj ne konduku nin en tenton, sed et ne nos inducas in tentationem, sed
liberigu nin libera nos
de la malbono. Car via estas la a malo.
regado,
la forto kaj la gloro eterne.
Note. — Vowels have continental
sounds. Consonants as in English,
c = ch in church, otherwise c = ts ;
s = sh ; final j as y. Each syllable is
pronounced. Accent on the penult.
It will suffice to conclude with a translated extract from a recent
French memoir, entitled, "La Langue Universelle " (Hachette et
Cie., Paris, 1904), by Couturat and Leau. This memoir is the result
of a comparative study and research into all the published systems of
international speech appearing within the past two hundred years.
The authors are two members of an official delegation, appointed by
the International Association of Academies, which undertook, at the
instance of the French Academy of Sciences, to consider the adoption
of an international auxiliary language. Concluding their critique of
Esperanto, the writers say:
In spite of its imperfections, easy to correct, the system of formation of
words in Esperanto is one possessed of remarkable regularity and fecundity.
It is this, especially, which contributes to give it the striking character of a
" natural " language, of a living tongue, which good judges recognize in it. It is
truly an autonomous language, which possesses intrinsic and unlimited resources,
which has an original physiognomy and a genius all its own. ... It is there-
fore not an " artificial " language, dried and dead, a simple replica of our
idioms; it is a language capable of living, of developing, and of surpassing in
richness, suppleness and variety the natural tongues. Finally, it is a language
susceptible of elegance and style, if one admits that true elegance subsists in
simplicity and clearness, and that style is but the order which one takes in the
expression of thought.
