INFANT INDUSTRIES 169
INFANT INDUSTRIES 1
By Professor T. D. A. COCKERELL
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO
THE university is, or ought to be, a nursery for young ideas as well
as for young people. To an aged person like myself, there is
something indescribably fascinating about a company of boys and girls.
Who knows what they may do, what they may become? Do I not
perhaps address myself to a Darwin, a Newton, or a Tennyson?
Classes have grown up and gone away : not all their members have
fulfilled our expectations; but yet, the harvest has been good — and
who knows, who can tell, what is inherent in these particular green
sprouts? It is the same with ideas as with people. Thoughts are
born, mature, live their lives, struggle with one another, and finally
reach their true position, if all is well. Alas ! that is a large qualifica-
tion, in either case. All may not be well; so much depends upon a
favorable environment and that, of course, is what we are all trying to
create.
There is one important difference between our young people and
our young ideas. The former come to us at an age which — well, which
seems to them quite grown up. The latter are often, we hope, born
upon the premises, and raised by hand with tender care during their
helpless infancy. Like other infants, they must not be forgotten, even
for a little while, and they are subject to all sorts of infantile disorders.
Unlike human infants, they have the unpleasant habit of destroying
one another, and we, their nurses, are so heartless as to actually en-
courage this internecine conflict. Nevertheless, we prize them highly,
and actively resent the sneers of passers by, who either have none of
their own, or only horrid little brats we would not condescend to
look at.
When very tender, they must often be kept at home. I used to be
a student at a medical school in London, where we had a very original
demonstrator of comparative anatomy. The results of our labors were
tested in examinations held, not by the teachers, but by quite other and
more aged professors. So our mentor used to say : " You see, gentle-
men, this is so and so, but I only found this out the other day, and
you must on no account tell it to the examiners, or they will give you
zero." You will appreciate the immense advantage of being ex-
1 Chapel address to the students of the University of Colorado, April 29, 1907.
