17© POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
amined by your own professor, all of whose heresies can be produced
and accepted as current coin — perhaps even a little above par. Oliver
Wendell Holmes justly remarked that you can not lift a stone without
creating a panic among some of the centipedes and other crawling
things which enjoyed the darkness it provided. Infant industries in
the intellectual field are apt to be destructive of more things than toys,
and so they are justly feared by the powers that be. There is this
curiously complicated situation, that whereas intellectual progress is
not merely advantageous to a nation, but is in this day of the world
essential, it is of positive disadvantage to that numerous company to
whom change means injury or destruction. This, however, is exactly
what may be said of infants of flesh-and-blood : they are costly, trouble-
some, often noisy and ugly, and quite unable to do anything useful to
compensate for all the injury and expense they involve. In the
latter respect, they are much worse than their psychological parallels,
for these are usually capable of rendering some service at a very early
day. Why, then, do people ever raise children at all ? Simply because
they have learned to love them; this sentimental attitude has un-
doubtedly saved the race from extinction, and may be relied upon to
do so for some time to come.
I see nothing for it, but the cultivation of a like feeling toward
our beloved progeny of the mind. It should be one of the chief aims
of university training, it seems to me, to cultivate an appreciation of
progress, and an ardent feeling — yes, a sentimental affecting for these
babes of the intellect. We should be not merely willing, but happy,
to struggle hard to. give them birth, to watch them daily, and if need be
walk the floor with them at night. Many a man has shown just this
devotion, has remained through the small hours with his eye glued
to the microscope, or has refused to be comforted while the threads of
his argument were still in a tangle. To most, I fear, all this must
seem fanciful. I am not so quixotic as to hope that the beginnings
of change will ever be widely understood. Nobody supposes that the
parents of Shakespear knew the extraordinary value of the little wailing
thing they had ; nor it is possible for the originators of lines of thought
to see where they will lead — much less the general public. Not only
are we unable to rightly value our infants, but we have an uncom-
fortable feeling that some of them will do us no credit — or if we have
not that feeling, some of our friends entertain it on our behalf. The
truth is, we can not tell the good from the bad at a very early age,
and the experience of mankind indicates that a charitable attitude is
the wisest. Some of the best thoughts ever born into this world have
appeared nonsense to the best friends of their parents.
I may be permitted to cite some instances in which ideas, cherished
for the mere love of them, have done unexpected things in their mature
