AMERICA'S INTELLECTUAL PRODUCT 195
rivals their richest possessions, their consent to unlimited aggression?
What is the power that moves the world to-day? No sooner is the
greatest warship of the world, the Dreadnought, launched by England,
than a still greater one, the Satsuma, is launched by Japan. Must we
exceed these in order to be a world-power? From the depths of my
soul I believe not. What matters it to history how many thousand
tons of steel or bales of cotton or bushels of wheat we export to
Europe ? Is not the question this, how many ideas do we export, and
is our product commensurate with our material greatness ? What care
we that Sparta was victorious in the Peloponnesian wars, if she has
left to our civilization no reminder of herself, while the ideas produced
in Athens will keep her remembered when both her temples and our
sky-scrapers shall have crumbled into dust.
Certainly we have some fruits to offer to history. Poetry and
philosophy are to-day everywhere somewhat below par, but we have in
the one produced Lowell and Whitman, and in the other Emerson, all
redolent of the American soil. I do not suppose that I shall be
disputed if I express the opinion that we to-day possess no names to be
compared with those of Eostand in France, d'Annunzio in Italy, Haupt-
mann and Sudermann in Germany, Maeterlinck in Belgium, not to
speak of Ibsen, but lately gone, from Norway. To be sure, we have
novelists, and though Stevenson and Kipling were only sojourners
here, we have Howells and James, to say nothing of more ephemeral
writers. Still we have in no branch of literature such command-
ing names as in painting those of Whistler and Sargent, whom we
claim as Americans though they spent most of their lives in Europe.
The sense of the country for architecture has but recently been aroused,
but the enormous progress that has been made in this direction will
be admitted by those who remember the exposition buildings of the
Centennial Exposition at Philadelphia and compare them with those
of the Columbian Exposition at Chicago or the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition at St. Louis. We may now find scattered through all parts
of the country noble buildings, exemplifying models from Greece,
France and Italy, even if we have not been able to originate a national
style, unless our tall buildings are to be so considered. In the art of
painting we are now able to hold up our heads as a nation, having
distinguished exponents of its various branches, most of whom ob-
tained their inspiration in France, if indeed they do not, like the two
I have previously named, prafer to live there. Nevertheless the pos-
session of the undisputed preeminence of Sargent among portrait
painters and Whistler among etchers may reconcile us to their exile
from the land which claims them. In sculpture the same may be
said, in a less degree, as in painting, and the possession of St.-Gaudens
may reconcile us to his Irish birth and his French name.
