i 9 6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
But whatever the status of our country in art and literature, it will
be said, there is one matter in which we are particularly strong, namely
in education. Our common schools are the boast of every patriotic
American, many of whom believe that such schools are unknown in
other lands; our colleges and universities are in number more than
those of any other country, and for our education we pay a greater sum
than any other country does or could afford. Education is the one
thing of whose value all Americans are convinced, and for which most
of them are willing to make sacrifices. Not only do we have the
greatest millionaires, as I have remarked, but they give away more
money than any others, and education obtains a large share of their
benefactions. No other country possesses privately endowed institu-
tions comparable with our great universities, and in none is the gen-
erosity of rich men developed to so high a degree, when measured in
numbers. It has recently been announced that Mr. Eockefeller has
just brought the total of his gifts to the University of Chicago up to
the sum of twenty million dollars, while Mr. Carnegie has given the
same sum to two institutions of very recent foundation, both bearing
his name, and it is to be remembered that in both these cases the sums
named constitute but a fraction of the amounts contributed by these
great givers to educational purposes. These are but two of the great
number of generous contributors to education in our day, and they
have been preceded by a long line of others whom we remember with
gratitude.
The question now lies near, what are the results of this grand
investment in education, in which not only the fathers, but we of to-day,
take such an interest? No sensible man to-day asks the question,
" Does education pay ? " The great question that interests the engi-
neer or the physicist in connection with any apparatus, machine or
transformation of energy, is its efficiency, that is, the ratio of what
comes out to what is put in. If I may be pardoned for introducing
a well-worn anecdote, I will remind you of the reply given by the
Hebrew capitalist to his wife, interested in family matters, " Isaac,
have you noticed how much interest young Mr. Loewenstein is taking
in our Eebecca ? " " Interest," says Isaac, looking up from his stock
report, " Interest — what per cent. ? " It is precisely this query to
which I wish to call your attention to-day — how great is the efficiency
of our educational plant, or, in commercial language, what per cent,
of dividend does the investment pay? An answer to this may be of
interest to future givers, unless indeed they are so permeated by the
prodigality of the times that they will give their money in any case, and
take their chances of its doing any good. Let us then take a brief sur-
vey of the state of learning in the United States. What is the attitude
of the public toward learning, and toward the universities and colleges
