AMERICA'S INTELLECTUAL PRODUCT 197
in particular ? What influence do these exert on the ideals of the people ?
What is the intellectual or spiritual product of these numerous and
well-endowed institutions, and what aspects of them are most prominent
in the eye of the public ? At the very outset of this inquiry it is some-
what depressing to note the divergence of opinion among experts as to
what education is, and what it is for. Those who have attended meet-
ings of college presidents or educational conventions can but have been
impressed with the diametrically opposite views expressed. To be sure,
there are a certain number of pet phrases and theories which we often
hear repeated, and one sometimes thinks, in reading the proceedings
of " Educators " in session, " Plus ca change, plus e'est la meme
chose." Education must be for life, we hear. Undoubtedly, but
what is life? Does it consist in eating three meals a day, sleeping at
night, and the next day the same? We hear of education for citizen-
ship. But is it so hard to be a good citizen that these elaborate and
costly institutions are necessary to bring it about? I recently heard
a gentleman remark with an air of finality, "Of course ninety per cent,
of what a young man gets in college comes from the association with
other young men." If this is true, it seems to me that there is some-
thing wrong with our institutions, and that the same result could be
obtained in a far cheaper manner. This view takes little account of the
influence on the young of strong and mature men, veterans in the con-
flict of life, and of the passing on of the garnered experience of the race.
The maintenance of faculties, at least on their present scale, would
seem to be quite unnecessary from this point of view. Under the old
college regime, the students had far more time and opportunity for
association with each other than at present. Have we, therefore, ad-
vanced in the wrong direction? Considering the prevalence of such
views, it seems to me to be worth while to emphasize the fact that a
college or university is, in the first place, a nursery of learning ; I mean
a place where knowledge is not only inculcated, but is produced. It
would seem absurd to put forward this view, were it not so often lost
sight of. The late Sir Walter Besant, in an article in the Harvard
Graduates' Magazine, remarked upon the fact that at the commence-
ment exercises that he had attended in this country, he heard much of
the public services rendered by the graduates, and of their distinguished
contributions to citizenship, but he had heard little of the distinguished
scholars that the institution had produced, and that it would appear
that that was a matter that was not considered of great importance.
At similar occasions at Oxford or Cambridge, he stated, much was
made of contributions to the world's thought made during the year by
the university's sons, in which achievements the alma mater took great
pride. I believe the same fact has also been noticed by others who
attend academic occasions. In this respect the colleges do not differ
