1 98 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
essentially from the public, which is, to speak plainly, little interested
in learning, and knows little of those devoted to it. If the future
historian, or the traveler from Altruria, wishing to inform himself of
the relation of the public to the colleges, should consult the documents,
that is the newspapers, could he help concluding that the main busi-
ness of the institutions of learning, and the one supported by the public,
was the cultivation of athletic sports and contests ? Are not our largest
colleges chiefly known to the newspaper-reading public through the
records of their athletic teams ? When we hear the " spirit " of certain
institutions spoken of, does it mean anything else than a concentration
of all the forces of youth on the task of overcoming athletic rivals ? It
is, to be sure, an inspiring sight to see these forces concentrated on any-
thing of importance with the determination to overcome difficulties,
but does not the importance of the athletic success seem magnified out
of all proportion, and is it compatible with that sane view of life which
should, above all, be the possession of the educated man? Let us con-
sider the amount of interest in athletics on the basis of the sums ex-
pended for it in comparison with other departments of activity. In
a recent daily paper I find the budget for athletics at the University
of Pennsylvania for the past year to amount to $88,863.85. During
the same time fifteen colleges and universities in the State of New
York, including Columbia and Cornell, spent on books for their libra-
ries $67,587. This is less by $20,000 than the sum spent for the same
purpose by the Brooklyn Public Library. We also find that at a single
football game there is taken in in gate-receipts the sum of eighty
thousand dollars, a sum, I may say, more than sufficient to run this
university and college together for a whole year. What a commentary
are these figures on American civilization ! I do not grudge the ex-
penditure of money on gymnasiums or whatever is necessary to the
development of muscle and the maintenance of health, which is the
prime necessity for success in any walk of life, but when I find in the
above budget the sum of $29,688 for football, I feel a certain sense of
scandal. I am aware that certain cities in the days of the decadence
of Eome maintained bands of gladiators for the diversion of the public,
but I can not feel that we shall do well by imitating them. I have
never been able to reconcile myself to the spending by my own alma
mater of over one hundred thousand dollars for a stadium, while she
alone of all the great universities lacks a worthy library building, and
can not find the funds to build it.
It will be said in explanation of the public interest in athletics that
this is the field of activity most visible, even if the activity is not the
greatest. Let us consider what are the fields of activity of a college
or university. Founded at first with the avowed object of educating
young men for the Christian ministry, our colleges naturally developed
