AMERICA'S INTELLECTUAL PRODUCT 199
after the model of the English colleges, which, being intended for the
education of certain classes in the community, were long dominated by
medieval ideas and traditions, and made their main business the teach-
ing of the ancient languages, for, if we include what was then known
as " the mathematics " we find it to have been restricted to so much
mathematics as was known to the Greeks, as if man's brain had lain
dormant since their day. Such was the condition at the beginning of
the nineteenth century, and even much later in this country. During
this time, however, the modern sciences had arisen, and many of them
had obtained a great development, especially mathematics, which, by
the invention by Descartes of coordinate geometry, and by Newton and
Leibnitz of the Infinitesimal Calculus, had forever emerged from the
chrysalis in which the Greeks left it, and had become a thing of
marvelous power, fit to display the highest flights of the human
intellect. Were these triumphs of mathematics now exhibited to the
academic youth? Far from it, they were not even informed that such
existed. In fact, we have good reason to doubt whether their existence
was known to any one in the country. As far as colleges were con-
cerned, if we consult the diaries of students written a little over one
hundred years ago, we find that they were instructed in matters now
considered fit for the grammar school. A student at Harvard speaks
of running away from recitations and going out to work with a sur-
veyor's compass by way of diversion, but there is no suggestion that he
knew anything even of trigonometry, now considered a proper subject
for the high school. At the period in question the sciences of physics
and chemistry were beginning that marvelous development which has
continued to our day. Were the students of seventy years ago made
acquainted with the discoveries of Thomas Young and Fresnel in light,
of Oersted and Ampere in electricity? We must again return the
same negative answer. But come down to the period of forty years
ago, when the country was advanced enough to be in daily communica-
tion with Europe and to take an interest in intellectual matters, and
had by its successful termination of a great civil war put itself in a
place of respect among the great nations of the earth. It was then
possible, to be sure, to learn a little science in college, but as for the
advances that were being daily made in Europe, little enough was
known of them. In fact, we must confess that during this whole period
we remained in this country in the Eip van Winkle stage with regard to
knowledge merely of what was going on in scientific Europe. Did it
occur to any of our people that this country had anything to do in
connection with this great creative movement of knowledge ? That our
standing among the nations of the earth was in any way dependent on
the production of new knowledge on American soil, and that if we did
not expect forever to occupy a position of intellectual mediocrity, it
