2oo POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
would be necessary to clo more than retail what others had produced.
Apparently not to any extent. Scholars we had, to be sure, mainly in
the direction of history, and some literary men. We had indeed already
produced inventors in the mechanical arts, men of wonderful alertness
of mind, who gave a character to the national genius, and did much to
help us to the industrial supremacy that we to-day possess. But the
pursuit of searching into the laws of nature, with the object of advan-
cing the stock of knowledge of the human race, was then hardly thought
of. Who had made the great discoveries which were the chief dis-
tinction of the nineteenth century? In some cases persons of private
means, sometimes physicians, but more and more professors in the uni-
versities of Germany, France, England and Italy, and the smaller
countries of Europe. In these countries it has always been assumed
that the greatest intellectual activity would be found among professors
in the universities, who would be expected, as a matter of course, to
produce those fruits in the way of new knowledge that would make the
glory of the nation. Thus we find Napoleon, reforming everything in
France, surrounding himself with a scientific galaxy of the greatest
brilliancy, feeling that this, no less than military success, was for the
glory of France. Germany, hardly recovered from the effects of the
Napoleonic wars, set about founding new universities or strengthening
old ones, and their professors were constantly adding to knowledge in
every direction. The spirit of work and of research was the character-
istic spirit of the German university. Germany was in this way attain-
ing that intellectual primacy that no other nation may to-day dispute
her. In the meantime the universities of England were lagging behind
the scientific movement, and ours were still well in the rear of them.
It was not until after the successful prosecution of the Franco-Prus-
sian war that the appearance of Germany on the stage as a political
world-power began to call our attention to the real source of her power,
and finally the wave struck us. Young men then began to go to
Germany and to drink in inspiration at the fountain whence it flowed
so freely. When my colleague, Professor Story, reached Berlin in
1871 he found few Americans, but on my own arrival fifteen years
later the stream had swollen to a goodly number, although it had by
no means reached its flood. The advent of the hundreds or thousands
of young Americans returning from Germany full of the enthusiasm
for production, which it is impossible to avoid catching there, began to
have a very decided influence on our academic ideals, and our universi-
ties opened their eyes to the fact that there was no reason why we, too,
should not contribute to the increase of knowledge.
Let me not be misunderstood, nor accused of claiming too much
for the influence of Germany. I know that there are to-day personali-
ties potent in the educational world who alternately pooh-pooh and
