AMERICA'S INTELLECTUAL PRODUCT 201
dread the influence of German} 7 . Although I can not sympathize with
them, I am far from maintaining that our liberation from bondage to
medievalism began when students began to go to Germany. I do not
forget Franklin, whose scientific researches made him a great figure in
the great world when it was hardly known what an American was, but
I must point out distinctly that Franklin was not only the product of
no university, but that he was never a professor in one, so that he
constitutes no exception to the condition that I have described. I re-
member also with pride the discoveries of Joseph Henry, the first
secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, whose great discoveries in
electricity entitle him to be named with Faraday, and had there been
here any appreciation of scientific research or had the means of com-
munication with Europe been greater, and especially had not Faraday
made most of the same discoveries in England, Henry would have made
his name one for all Americans to cherish as a national glory. It is
with feelings of peculiar pleasure that I notice, each spring on my visit
to Washington, the statue of Henry in front of the Smithsonian, a
welcome change from the bronze man on horseback with cocked hat
and sword with which the capital swarms, and a quiet proof that even
republics are not totally ungrateful, and that they recognize that there
are other kinds of glory than military glory.
It would be impossible to pass over in silence the great influence
of Louis Agassiz, coming to Cambridge over fifty years ago, who by his
wonderful personality not only encouraged many to take up research
as a profession, but also kindled the imagination of the public, and led
it to see that science was deserving of respect, and not of the suspicion
that it had often encountered on religious grounds. Such was the
success of Agassiz that we still hear stories of him that would seem to
mark him as the first to succeed in opening the purses of the rich
for scientific research. Agassiz did more for science than is possible to
many; he left a son who not only rose to the highest level among
American scientists in the same line as his father, but, more practical
in his applications of science, and equally actuated by the desire to ad-
vance science itself, was able to exercise a generosity that, until the time
of the present millionaire gifts, made him the largest single contribu-
tor to Harvard.
It is frequently supposed that the American public is extremely in-
terested in the results of scientific progress, and so it is, in a certain
sense. Certainly we can not accuse it of lack of alertness, when it reads
more than any other — in the newspapers. It reads with eager interest,
and with implicit credulity accounts of the supposed discoveries of
science, taking at equal value the productions of notorious charlatans
and those of real investigators. It reads with wonder of the discovery
of radium, laying particular weight on its costing millions of dollars
