AMERICA'S INTELLECTUAL PRODUCT 205
great practical utilities, the telegraph and the telephone, the applica-
tion of steam and electricity in the production and transmission of
power, the conquests of biological science in its applications to medi-
cine and the preservation of the public health, are matters of common
knowledge. The disappearance of the plagues with which the cities
of Europe were so frequently scourged, of the ravages of smallpox
so prevalent one hundred and fifty years ago that one person in every
three or four was marked with it, and finally the control of yellow
fever and malaria, speak volumes in favor of medical research. Who
is doing the medical research of the world ? In this country the state-
ment is made that out of about one hundred thousand physicians not
over five hundred are engaged in research. Fortunately the Germans
are at this too, so that every physician has the ambition to study at
some period in Germany, and find out all he can of the newest methods
of practise and discovery.
The effect of research on the industries of a country is well known.
One of the most celebrated applications of chemistry was the creation
of the aniline dyes. This discovery, made in England, bore its greatest
fruits in Germany, and at the recent celebration in London of the
jubilee of the discovery of the aniline colors in honor of Sir William
Perkin, one of the speakers said that it was a painful fact that although
the English had the discoverer the Germans had the factories. In fact,
the Germans not only make the dyes, but the greater part of all the fine
chemicals for the world. Every one of these great German factories
employs scores of chemists, each with a doctor's degree from a univer-
sity, not only for the purpose of superintending the manufacture, but
for the prosecution of research and the development of new processes
and products.
In the commercial race of to-day, England has lost that preemi-
nence that she once had, and is extremely nervous with regard to the
competition of the United States and Germany. If we compare the
methods of the latter two countries, I believe we shall find a decided
difference. In this country success has been achieved by the applica-
tion of business acumen, in finding out how to save cost by the con-
centration of huge amounts of business under one management, and
by production on a large scale. When it comes to improving the
quality of the product, we are not so successful. As a familiar ex-
ample take the steel manufacture, where we have passed England in
the quantity of the steel we manufacture, but if steel is wanted of the
finest sort for razors the greatest part of it still comes from England
or Germany. The principles of the manufacture of steel are still
largely a mystery, and the development of the method that seems to
give us the most information on this subject, that of metallography,
or the study of metallic alloys under the microscope, has been devel-
