2o6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
oped to a great extent in Germany and France. We see the same
tendency to concentration of talent on the business end in the man-
agement of our railroads. Can any one doubt that these are now
managed with far less energy than twenty years ago? Our railroads
are now in the hands of financial magnates, and the attempt to do
more business takes precedence of everything else. The great increase
in the number of fearful accidents bids fair to open the eyes of our
good-natured public to this tendency.
I believe I am justified in the generalization that the American
talent has made its success rather in business organization and in
invention that did not require great learning than in those lines
that require deep thinking and solid study. This is the line character-
istic of Germany. For instance, we build great steam engines, but it
remains a solemn fact that the finest engines are to-day built in the
Swiss town of Winterthur, by the firm of Sulzer Brothers. At the
Paris Exposition, in 1900, one did not need to be a great expert to per-
ceive that American engines played but a. small part there, and that
in originality of design and perfection of construction, those of Switzer-
land, Germany and Belgium were more worthy of consideration. The
notion that we are always ahead in mechanical matters receives several
rude shocks on careful examination. Some years ago when the power
of Niagara was to be developed on a grand scale, it was determined
to install turbines of five thousand horse-power each, larger than had
ever been built. For the development of this plant the best talent in
the world was obtained, and the dynamos were finally built after the
combined suggestions of several American and English engineers.
The turbines, on the contrary, were built after designs by a firm in
Geneva. And yet this is the country of great rivers and water-powers,
and at Holyoke turbines of all sorts have been built and tested for
years. The reason that the Swiss were appealed to was that they had
made such a study of the theory as well as the practise of turbines that
they were prepared to design a turbine of any magnitude. As another
example we may take the case of the most important subject now before
the engineer in the steam turbine. It is true that there is now on the
American market one successful American turbine, but it was brought
out years after the Parsons turbine in England, and the de Laval in
Sweden, and any treatise on the subject now bristles with the names
of German, French and Swiss turbines. As an example of the German
versus the English method, if we open one of the two or three English
books on the steam turbine we shall find a very little theory, some
specifications and a large number of examples of turbines built by
various makers. Opening the chief German treatise, a huge volume
by a professor in the Polytechnic in Zurich, we find at first a treatise
on the thermodynamics of steam, then applications to the flow of
