AMERICA'S INTELLECTUAL PRODUCT 207
steam through nozzles, then the mathematical theory of stresses in
rapidly rotating bodies, finally, the application of these principles to
the design of turbines, and then a thorough and methodical description
of the principal existing types. Hardly, if at all, less important than
the steam turbine is the gas engine, which seems for a long time to
have been treated almost as a joke by American engineers, while in
Germany it has reached an efficiency far exceeding that of the steam
engine and has been built in sizes up to four thousand horse-power.
The effect of this indifference in this country was to put us far in the
rear of even France in the development of the automobile, although this
was a country where the wealth necessary for the pursuit of the auto-
mobile craze was present in great abundance. In spite of the number
of manufactories of automobiles in this country, I am informed that
the Fiat Company of Turin is occupied for the next two years with
American orders, the result of the success of its machines in interna-
tional races everywhere.
I will conclude my practical examples with one more contrast.
A year ago I visited a great optical plant in this country. There I
saw in one room thousands of lenses for spectacles being ground almost
without attention. During the day I saw one man who seemed to me
to know anything about optics. The business was in the hands of the
original founder and his sons. I supposed that the latter, having
grown up in the enjoyment of wealth, would have been given the best
education possible to train them for their business, and possibly sent
to Europe to learn methods there. Great was my astonishment to
learn that the gentlemen had not even been at college. In the city of
Jena is one of the most remarkable and successful industrial plants in
the world. The Carl Zeiss works are known to every worker with the
microscope, to every physicist, to every photographer in the world, for
here are produced those wonderful lenses that make photomicrography
and the more wonderful achievements of instantaneous photography
possible. The history of the Zeiss works is as interesting as its prod-
ucts. Fifty years ago Zeiss, a small optician, wishing to get help in
improving his microscopes, consulted Professor Abbe, the physicist at
the University of Jena. The latter, applying his mathematical knowl-
edge, so improved the efficiency of the microscopes that Zeiss invited him
to join forces. Becoming interested in the subject, Abbe resigned his
professorship and became the scientific partner. Taking up the theory
of optical instruments in general, he completely remodeled it, bringing
out points never appreciated before, and inventing new lenses that
were beyond competition. At the death of Zeiss, his son not having
a taste for the business, Abbe was able to become sole proprietor, and
at his death two years ago, full of success and lamented by scientists
everywhere, he created of the business a Stift, or foundation, for the
