2o8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
benefit of every one employed in the works. This is managed by a
board composed of the scientific directors of the different branches of
the business, the whole constituting a magnificent monument to Ger-
man science and cooperation.
If the view that I have taken is correct, the practical question pre-
sents itself, what has been done by the colleges and universities in this
country to provide for research ? I should like to ask all the trustees
and governing boards of the institutions of the country the question:
Gentlemen, what is your policy — have you any — do you believe in
research — if so, what provision have you made for it ? Do you believe
that you have any duty to the nation in this matter? Who, in your
expectation, is to do the amount of research necessary to constitute us
a world-power in the intellectual sense ? Do you realize that the prose-
cution of research is a very engrossing pursuit, consuming great
amounts of time, and not to be carried on in those leavings of moments
when the tried teacher has finished his day's task of instruction ? That
it is also a very expensive process, requiring elaborate laboratories fitted
with the ever-changing apparatus quite distinct from the stereotyped
stock in trade necessary for the imparting of first principles to the
tyro in science? Of the forty million dollars now spent annually in
the United States on colleges and universities, what proportion now
goes for the provision for research? This it is impossible to tell, but
we find that in comparison with the hundred thousand students in our
colleges there are only seven thousand graduate students. Of these by
far the greater proportion are not to be counted in the research class,
but are preparing to be routine teachers of a somewhat superior grade
to those who go immediately from undergraduate colleges. These
graduate students are largely being taught by professors whose main
duties are in undergraduate teaching, and even in our largest and
richest institutions the complaint is made that it is impossible for the
graduate student to secure any considerable attention from the pro-
fessor. In many cases expensive laboratories are erected with little
or no provision for buying books. I know of but two physical labora-
tories in this country that have an endowment to be devoted to the
fostering of research, the Jefferson Laboratory at Harvard and the
Phoenix Laboratories at Columbia.
Fellowships are, to be sure, provided, but not nearly enough. For it
is a strange fact that the sons of the rich seldom or never in this coun-
try take up learning as a profession, and that most of our serious
students have exhausted their means in the four years of college. In
a family where there are several children, it is a serious matter to
provide a college education for all, to say nothing of the extra three
years of graduate work, and the ideas that I have been advocating are
so little familiar to the public that many fathers do not understand
