2io POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
yet France is a small country, not rich in comparison with us, and
with a national debt six times as great as ours. But France has long
been a civilized country, and Paris is proud to call herself " la ville
Lumiere." At the University of Berlin, Professor van't Hoff, the
great physical chemist, was called from his native Holland to occupy
a chair of research, in which he is totally freed from the obligation to
lecture. Can we not consider the possibility of something of this
sort in this country?
During the last few years several institutions have been founded
for the sole purpose of the promotion of research, most notably the
Carnegie Institution of Washington and the Eockefeller Institute of
Medical Eesearch in New York. These noble foundations may be
expected to produce great results, but they do not relieve the universi-
ties from the duty of providing for research themselves, for research
can be much more efficiently carried on in connection with teaching,
and it is far more easy to obtain the persons who are to do the work
in the universities than elsewhere. The scientist who does not have
the inspiration of frequent contact with young and active minds of
students is likely to become self-absorbed, one-sided and dried up. It
is to be noticed that I have made this plea for research largely on the
basis of its effect on teaching, and of inspiration of the students and
of the community.
What then, my colleagues of university and college, is our duty?
First of all, by our lives and precepts to teach our students that the
prime object of the educated man is not to make a living. Is not the
life more than meat, and the body than raiment? It is ours to hold
up the sacred torch, and to radiate upon the community those ideals
which it is strangely in danger of forgetting. It is for us to enrich the
American soil, and cause it to bring forth imperishable fruit. And
by word and deed to remind the young men with whom we come in
contact that life is neither pleasure nor pain, but serious business.
