CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 211
THE GEAIN OF TEUTH IN THE BUSHEL OF CHEISTIAN
SCIENCE CHAFF
By CHARLES CLARENCE BATCHELDER
fcfc ~YT'THEEE there is smoke, there must be some fire," is a proverb
V V which may justly be applied to the claims made by Christian
Science, for it is hardly fair to a large number of educated men and
women to jeer at them as the victims of the absurd delusion that they
have been cured of non-existent maladies. Not only can they produce
well attested cases of undisputed cures of distinct diseases, without
the use of medicines, but similar results occasionally occur at Lourdes
and elsewhere, and, in fact, have taken place in unbroken succession
throughout the centuries ever since the Temple Cures of Ancient
Egypt. Though the facts are too well established to be denied, we may
yet question the explanations they give of the cause and method,
especially when we find that the Pagan idolatry of the priests of
Ammon-Ea produced the same effect as the Pantheistic philosophy
which Dr. Quimby and Mrs. Eddy adapted from Hindu sources. For
though the charge of Pantheism is violently repudiated, it is even
more authoritatively affirmed by the statement " God is All, and All
is God."
Now while the philosophy is not convincing to the ordinary reason-
ing mind, a study of the methods of Christian Science can not fail to
command admiration, not only on account of the efficient financial
management, but also for the clever use of the most effective methods
of mental healing. The fact that these procedures were discovered
empirically does not distinguish them from the systems of the recog-
nized medical schools, for the uses of most drugs were found in the
same way.
It is also not just to accuse the " healers " of being quacks and
charlatans, for, though there may be exceptions, it seems well estab-
lished that sincerity on the part of the operator is usually essential to
produce that conviction in the patient which is absolutely requisite for
all cures of this nature in every age and time. In other words, the
christian scientists are perfectly right in saying that " faith," con-
viction, belief, are necessary to produce the desired result, and that
doubt in the patient, or among those present, is likely to prevent suc-
cess. The reasons for this will be apparent later.
The opponents of this system affirm that most of the diseases in
question are only imaginary, and do not really exist. Though we
