2i2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
should grant this at the start, it would not alter the situation much,
for imaginary diseases are often as " afflictive " to the sufferer, and
more annoying and expensive to the family, than actual ailments, and
a debt of gratitude is due to any method of removing them.
The next objection is that the patients would have recovered any-
way if let alone. Suppose this is also conceded; the position is un-
changed, for the chances are that the disorder would not have been
left to the curative processes of nature, but would have been dosed
with various poisonous patent medicines, with dangerous results. Here
christian science is beneficial by preventing interference. But, after
all, is this true, especially of chronic cases? We may well ask why,
if nature alone was able to cure the case, it remained unbenefited for
years, but quickly recovered as soon as mental healing gave its assist-
ance.
The unexplained instances are jauntily disposed of by attributing
them to " suggestion," but giving a thing a name is not solving the
problem, and, while there are reams in the text-books upon the effects
of suggestion, few seem to attempt to say exactly what it is or how it
acts.
The whole subject of mental therapeutics is so discredited that
the medical profession hesitates to treat it, but, really, few fields will
more quickly repay the application of modern scientific methods.
Light even appears in the dark maze as soon as we begin to classify
the more reliable cures, as distinguished from those not sufficiently
verified. The great majority are disorders of the nervous system, in-
cluding under this head certain functional affections, and many more
are dependent, directly or indirectly, upon morbid conditions of the
circulatory system.
Mental healing has not 3 r et demonstrated its power to cure diseases
caused by microorganisms, like malaria, pneumonia, diphtheria, yellow
fever and many others, and its adherents admit that it is not effective
in surgical cases or those where there has been an actual destruction
of the tissues. Christian scientists are often taunted by their friends
with being unable to cure common colds (caused by bacteria), and
with going to the dentist, and with reason, for both these are beyond
their powers. They would lose nothing, and would allay much hos-
tility, if they would frankly admit that, for the present at least, these
complaints are beyond their scope, and would confine themselves to
more successful fields, instead of claiming that they are able to " dem-
onstrate " over cancer and smallpox.
The community has a right to protect itself, and should take
measures to prevent individuals from endangering themselves and
their neighbors by refusing medical aid in even the minor contagious
and infectious maladies. It is somewhat surprising that the able
