216 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the statistics, as unfortunately it seems extremely difficult to persuade
the disciples of Mrs. Eddy to lend themselves to investigations of
this sort.
We can even go a step further with the utmost confidence, and
say that simple concentration of the attention upon a given part will
increase the blood supply. This is capable of experimental verification,
for very many people can cause the backs of their hands to redden
perceptibly by fixing the attention upon one spot for some time, with-
out the thought of desiring a flush, though that idea usually hastens
the process.
This furnishes us a key to some obstinate chronic diseases, where
there is no destruction of the tissue, but where an unwholesome condi-
tion has resulted from an oversupply of blood caused by undue fixation
of the attention upon the part, a permanent blush, so to speak. As the
health of the body depends upon the preservation of a normal blood
supply, modified by the demands made by the activities of the different
organs, we see that an organ constantly oversupplied becomes diseased,
like a man who habitually overeats, while this oversupply must be
taken from the share of some other portion, which consequently starves.
If this is so, it is evident that a cure will follow when the unwhole-
some attention is discontinued. This shows why the Christian Scien-
tists say "Deny error. If your 'mortal mind' has a claim that an
organ is diseased, stop thinking about it. Hold the thought that it
is completely well, that you are perfect" This whole line of thought
is well conceived, and tends toward mental poise and bodily well-being,
for those who are able to believe the tenets.
Having secured some clear ideas about the physiological reasons
for some of the Christian Science methods, we are ready for the more
difficult aspect of the subject, that of nervous disorders. Every practis-
ing physician is confronted with a class of cases in which there does
not seem to be an adequate cause for the symptoms, and which are
roughly classified under the head of hysterical affections. They include
paralysis of various organs, stiffness of the limbs, pain and swelling in
the joints, pain in the head and spine, perversions of sensation, over-
irritability of various functions, and a host of Protean symptoms. The
sufferers suffer actual pain, and often very serious inconvenience, but
the most careful medical treatment seems unsuccessful. The limits
of this article will not permit a discussion of this subject, but it
suffices to say that to all intents and purposes the maladies are real,
even though they exist only in the imagination. They seem akin to
" fixed ideas," and " pain habits," as well as to that phenomenon called
the "balky will" frequently met with in childhood, where a child
refuses to obey, and then holds the idea so firmly that it is physically
and mentally impossible for him to yield. We have all seen it in balky
