CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 217
horses which refuse to move until their attention is distracted by a
lump of sugar, blowing into the ear, or putting a pinching instrument
upon the lip, which succeed where a severe beating only increases the
obstinate immobility. Many cases of such fixed ideas are on record,
which have been cured by fright. One old doctor was in the habit
of curing bedridden patients by letting mice loose on their beds, until
they ran shrieking from the room, forgetting all about their ailments.
In a recent case, the husband was sent for the physician, leaving
the patient alone in the house. The telephone rang so continuously
that she rose and answered it, and was so absorbed in scolding him for
not returning in time to receive the call that she forgot that she was
out of bed for the first time in years. One man who had a most severe
case of asthma, which had caused him the most serious discomfort, was
completely cured by the fright of the Kingston earthquake, and has
had no relapse, though forced to live under conditions of considerable
hardship. This is vouched for by the writer out of his own experience.
Now, while cases of this nature are very refractory to drugs and
other medical treatment, they yield with surprising readiness to mental
therapeutics. The attention of the patient is distracted, a desire for
cure is firmly implanted, interest is excited, and all the conditions are
made favorable. The process is not dissimilar from that of stimulating
the motion of balky horses with lumps of sugar. The fact that there
is no real disease evidently accounts for the failure of the skilled
physician.
The successes of Christian Science are largely in these cases, which
are principally found among women of the middle and upper classes,
who live luxurious, self-indulgent lives, are over-fed, under-exercised,
have no occupations or absorbing interests in life, and concentrate
their attention upon themselves and their ailments. We are not sur-
prised to find that converts belong very largely to this class, or to learn
that many relatives bless any belief that will turn a nervous, sickly,
complaining invalid into a cheerful, though perhaps a bit too superior
and self-complacent member of society.
A very large percentage of all the cures of all systems of medical
treatment without the use of drugs may safely be classed under some of
the heads which we have already discussed. It is not unreasonable to
group with mental healing many methods more generally accepted
by the community, such as " high dilutionist " homeopathy, osteopathy,
massage, electricity, water and bath cures, and even allopathy, whieh,
as every physician knows, habitually employs " bread pills " and other
similar methods of influencing the minds of the patients.
Making all allowances, however, there are a number of cases of
genuine cures, as the result of mental treatment, of serious diseases,
which have defied all regular medical processes. The discouragingly
