218 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
dry way of classification will be again most helpful here, as it shows
us that these cases are mostly of " functional disorders " — when the
organs of the body fail to perform their proper work. It is clearly
impossible that any cell in the body should work at high pressure all
the time, for adequate rest is essential to all living matter; further, it
would be wasteful for secretions to be made when they were not
needed, and nature abhors waste, while useless secretions would tend
to produce sickness. It is one of the duties of the sympathetic nervous
system to stimulate the activities of each organ at the proper time, and
also to stop the process when no longer needed. It consists of a double
chain of masses of nervous tissue, called ganglia, lying inside and on
both sides of the spinal column, connected with each other by nerves,
and also with great networks of nerves called plexuses, which govern
the heart, blood vessels, intestines, liver, lungs and other organs. The
spinal ganglia receive branches from the spinal nerves, which bring
them into relation with the cerebellum and brain. The mechanism
works reflexly, without the interference of the will. If, for instance, we
ascend a mountain where the air is rarer, the lungs work more rapidly,
as the result of more frequent stimuli from the sympathetic, thus
taking enough more air to counterbalance the deficiency of oxygen.
The presence of waste in the circulation stimulates the kidneys, a high
temperature excites the perspiration, and the proper conditions cause
the other organs to act. The exciting cause in the organ, whatever
it may happen to be, sends an impulse up to the reflex centers, which
in turn send an order down to the organs to get to work until
commanded to stop. If by any means we can send a similar impulse
up to the reflex centers without the presence of the usual exciting
cause — a false alarm, so to speak — we shall get the regular result. It
is also probable that the reflex centers can be made to give the regular
orders to start work, not in the customary way by a message sent up
to it from the organ, but by direct command of the lower parts of the
brain, though not immediately by the cerebrum, or thinking portion.
The functions of the sympathetic system are modified by the two
pneumogastric nerves which start in the head and extend to the
digestive organs, lungs, heart, liver, stomach and other organs.
It will, perhaps, be clearer to select one organ as a type of func-
tional disorder, and follow the process closely, bearing in mind that
these remarks do not apply at all to cases where there has been an
alteration in structure, as these are not susceptible to mental healing.
We will choose the stomach, the most abused organ, as it is defense-
less against the acts of the will in putting into it all kinds of injurious
substances. It takes its revenge, however, for ill-treatment, not only
by causing pain in its own vicinity, but by instigating pain in the
chest, dizziness, sleeplessness, headache, black specks and other dis-
