CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 219
turbances of sight, palpitation of the heart, cold hands and feet, gen-
eral indisposition — called " that tired feeling " — irritability, melan-
cholia, bilious attacks, and other affections. It is interesting to note
that if a disordered stomach can be relieved by mental therapeutics,
all these symptoms can also be cured by the same means, to the great
glory of the healer.
Now the stomach is a patient thing, more patient even than a
donkey, but if ill treated too long, it will rebel — go on strike — and
decline to handle " non-union materials " in the shape of improper
or badly cooked food. Overeating, bolting, insufficient chewing, irreg-
ular meals, over-indulgence in alcohol, tea, coffee and tobacco, are,
also, apt to produce that prevalent American disease — dyspepsia. The
usual factor is a change in the gastric juices, which may be deficient
in quantity, or may contain too much or too little acid or pepsin.
Sometimes, however, the natural movements of the stomach become
irregular, and the food is either hurried too soon into the intestines
in a half dissolved condition, or, more frequently, retained too long
in an undigested state to ferment and cause pain, gas and vomiting.
Now improper conditions of both the gastric juices and the move-
ments result from a failure of the stimuli of the nervous system. The
messages sent from the mucous membrane lining the stomach to the
reflex centers stating that food is awaiting digestion may not reach
the proper destination, owing to unnatural conditions of the nerves
or ganglia; the reflex centers may not give the proper orders; the
return nerves may fail to transmit ; or the cells of the lining membrane
may decline to obey orders. To use the simile of an electric bell —
the push button may be broken; the wires disconnected or cut; the
batteries may be used up; or the tongue of the bell may be loose.
Such failures of the nervous system are usually the result of over-
work of some kind; it is simply tired out, and insists upon rest. The
fatigue may be direct, from overeating or improper food, or it may
come from general exhaustion from dissipation, worry or mental or
physical overexertion. In many cases, simple rest, with freedom from
worry and overwork, is sufficient to work a cure. Drugs often actually
delay recovery, and we do not really know just why bismuth, rhubarb,
nux vomica, gentian, or the newer proprietary and synthetic remedies
should assist nature, though we have concluded for empiric reasons
that they do. Mental healing certainly gives the nervous system a
chance to recuperate undisturbed, and hence is often better than any
other treatment. Often, nevertheless, rest is not enough. The rested
nerves are still obstinate, and refuse to send the needed orders, re-
sembling balky horses which must be coaxed with sugar. In these
instances, also, mental methods will often start the proper reactions
when everything else has failed.
