2 2o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Some experiments performed on dogs whose stomachs were kept
open for observation will, perhaps, make the situation more clear. If
a dog was allowed to eat meat in the usual way, its presence in the
stomach caused the reflex centers to send orders to the gastric cells
to commence secretion. The mere irritation caused by the presence of
objects in the stomach was not enough, for the introduction of in-
digestible substances, or rubbing the lining with sand, or a glass rod,
produced no gastric juice. Meat introduced directly from the outside,
not through the mouth, still stimulated the juices. Thus it seemed
to be purely a reflex performance — the ganglia seemed to say " you
press the right button, we do the rest," the mind seemed to be unneces-
sary. Nevertheless, if the dog was allowed to swallow the meat, which
was removed through a slit in the throat, and not permitted to enter
the stomach, gastric juice was as cheerfully secreted as usual.
This was puzzling enough, but worse was in store, for if the dog
smelled and saw the meat, without even biting it, gastric juice was
formed in larger amounts than if the meat were put into the stomach
without the knowledge of the dog. Plainly, reflex action here played
no part, and mental conditions of anticipation, pure emotion in fact,
occupied the whole stage.
In other words, the stomach may be controlled in two ways, either
mechanically by contact with food, or mentally by the production of
emotions. If one fails, the other is still available. If food does not
produce gastric juice, the proper mental states may be made to supply
the deficiency. The problem of mental healing is here made absolutely
clear; we can no longer deny that it is possible. The only difficulty
is the method of production of the proper mental and emotional states.
This is the most important and fascinating aspect of the subject, but
space forbids its discussion in this place, as it leads into the realm of
hypnotism, subliminal consciousness, suggestion and double personality.
The experimenters were unfortunately unable to obtain data about
the mental conditions of the dog, and thus we can not state what the
results would have been upon its stomach of the memory of past feasts,
the hope of future ones, or the belief or dream that there was meat in
the stomach. We must wait for a satisfactory knowledge of the whole
subject until some person shall appear with an opening into his
stomach, like Alexis St. Martin, who, to our intense regret, died too
soon to demonstrate the facts of christian science.
Not only is the stomach largely influenced by mental states, but
we all know that joy, sorrow, anger and other emotions cause that
extremely rapid and violent action of the heart that we call palpitation,
while fright stops its action, through the pneumogastric, so that
fainting occurs, or even death. Eage and other mental conditions
sometimes intensify the action of the liver enough to bring about
