i2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
cles Plantes, but after the revolution as the Museum of Natural
History.
Begun in 1633 as a royal garden, its design was to furnish better
opportunities for the study of pharmacy and to preserve rare specimens
of flowers and herbs. The garden was in reality founded by the two
physicians, Herouard and Guy de la Brosse, in the time of Louis XIII.
There was a garden of apothecaries in Paris in the fifteenth century.
But one far more extensive than any yet known was desired, one in
which botany could be studied with advantage to medical science. The
king favored the proposal of Herouard and de la Brosse as early as
1626, but as the faculty of the university opposed it, nothing was done
till 1633. The garden Avas placed under the charge of la Brosse as
superintendent, with Herouard as assistant. The latter soon died and
his place was taken by Charles Barnard. Salaries were small, yet
sufficient to support life. Three demonstrators and an operator in
botany were appointed and a small sum of money was set aside for
purchases and the payment of extra help. The garden was to contain
a sample of all simple and compound drugs. It consisted of twenty-
four acres and was situated in the faubourg of St. Victor.
To this garden la Brosse gave his life. He laid out the grounds,
planted herbs and trees, formed collections and organized courses of
study in botany, chemistry, natural history and astronomy. By 1640
there were 2,560 specimens of plants for examination, all of them
valuable. Under Vallot, the successor of la Brosse, the garden suf-
fered, but under the direction of Fagan, a nephew of la Brosse and
the chief physician of Louis XIV., it improved. Things went from
bad to worse under Chiroc, who cared for nothing but anatomy, but
under Dufoy, a real lover of nature, there was a change for the better.
He made Buffon his successor, who, from 1739 to 1788 was at the head
of affairs and whose ideas of what the garden should be were largely
realized. Cuvier followed him. Cuvier came to the garden a poor
boy, well educated in the classics, mathematics and literature, but
supremely fond of natural history. He was soon made a professor.
He studied comparative anatomy and through his contributions to this
branch of knowledge gained great honor. He was a professor in the
College of France, a member of the French Academy, of the Academy
of Inscriptions and Belles Lettres, and of nearly all the learned socie-
ties in the world. But he permitted neither honors nor requests from
any source whatever, to interrupt his favorite studies. His modest
home Avas in the garden itself, and during his lifetime Avas the meeting
place of most of the more famous scientists of Europe. The house,
covered with vines and adorned with a bust, is preserved, and marked
as the house of Cuvier.
Through the influence of Bernardino do St. Pierre the convention
