222 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
comes a menace to the community, since quarantine and disinfection
are prohibited by the mental healers, as tending to confirm the patient
in the " claim " that he is ill.
While the exact method of the action of drugs is uncertain, and
many are probably inert, if not harmful, we are positive that certain
ones, like quinine, mercury, opium, digitalis and others produce cer-
tain definite conditions which can be relied upon to assist the patient.
Some of them kill the germs, just as boiling destroys the microbes of
typhoid fever in water; others, like quinine, render the human body
an unfavorable culture medium and discourage the " bugs " ; others
directly stimulate the action of the organs.
Even the more advanced mental healers admit that, at present at
least, they are unable to treat with success surgical cases, which should
at once be examined by a regular surgeon. The former err, however,
in refusing to use antiseptics when prescribed, as they are rarely able
to practise aseptic methods.
In addition to drugs, modern medicine is making great use of
serums of various kinds, and antitoxin has rendered diphtheria, once
a household terror, a relatively non-fatal malady. Further advances
are being made daily along these lines, and great discoveries may be
expected from the investigations of Metchnikoff into immunity and
ferments.
Mental healing also errs in not employing to the full diet, fresh
air, exercise and the other hygienic systems, which are rapidly growing
to be our chief reliance in the control of illness.
It is a source of wonder to those who are following the subject that
the usually acute leaders of mental healing do not profit by the experi-
ence of the Fathers at Lourdes. The latter have every patient ex-
amined by physicians, trained in the regular schools, before mental
healing is attempted. This gives an opportunity to eliminate the
dangerous or contagious maladies, while at the same time furnishing
proof of cure and establishing the nature of the disease. It would
seem possible to arrange this so as not to undermine the faith of the
sufferer, as the process at Lourdes seems to meet with the approval of
the Fathers.
The great weakness of the schools of mental therapeutics seems
to be faulty diagnosis. In fact, there is apparently no attempt at diag-
nosis, and all patients are treated in the same general way. Thus
time and strength are wasted on cases which are, from their very nature,
hopeless from the start, and in which mental methods are absolutely
criminal, on account of the danger and suffering of the patient and
the probability of propagating disease in the community. It is not
too much to say that no case should be treated mentally until it has
been examined by a graduate of a reputable medical school, and pro-
