THE INSTITUTE OF FRANCE 15
the entire horizon. An attempt was made at that time to fix the
meridian line, but this was done more accurately by James Cassini, son
of J. D. Cassini, in 1733. Imperfect as were their instruments, large
sums of money were expended on them, and excellent work was done.
The principal marvels of the heavens were discovered, the sun's rota-
tion on itself, the revolution of Mars, Venus and Jupiter, the nebula?,
variable stars, four of Saturn's satellites and the division of his ring.
Cassini's atlas of the heavens of sixty-two pages or plates was
graciously accepted by the king as a gift from the astronomer. Huy-
ghens of Holland succeeded Cassini as director of the observatory and
be was followed by Roemer, the Dane, who discovered the velocity of
light. Although after the death of Colbert in 1683 the resources of
the observatory were diminished, the astronomers continued their work
and by their discoveries brought fame to the nation. After 1GS9 and
for many years, it is said, their salaries were only one third of what they
had been in the time of Colbert.
The work of the astronomers of the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries has sometimes been treated as of small importance. But it
was as good as the means for the study of the heavens permitted. The
French astronomers, according to the testimony of Airy of England,
did the best work in the world. Their efforts to measure accurately a
degree of the meridian attracted universal notice. In this work the
Abbe Picard was prominent. J. D. Cassini, his son James, Philippe
de la Hire and a few others visited India and America to secure favor-
able observations. In 1755 Godin, Bougner and la Condaminer went
to Peru, Maupertuis and Clairvant to Laponie, le Maurier and the
Abbe de la Caillet to the Cape of Good Hope. The transit of Venus
in 1761 was observed with great care. The abbe Chappe d'Auteroche
went to Tobolsk, Francis Cassini de Maury to Venice, and Pingre to
the island of Eodriguez. Observations were also made at San Jose,
California. In 1769 other observations of the transit were made, but
war with the English prevented some that might have been very
valuable.
In 1770 the condition of the observatory was discouraging. Re-
ports were to the effect that it was dangerous to occupy the buildings.
The ministers of Louis XVI. aided J. D. Cassini de Thury in his work.
But perfect instruments and promised repairs of the buildings were
insufficient to persuade Cassini to remain in Paris after the Revolution
and the decree of 1791. In June of this year the convention turned
over all the observatories of France to the Bureau of Longitude. Under
the influence and direction of such men as Laplace, Delambre, Legendre,
Lagrange, Michain, Arago, Bouvard and his son, Mathieu and Mauduis
the observatory regained its former reputation and even added to it.
Still, as late as 1832, the astronomers found it neither altogether safe
nor comfortable to live in the quarters provided for them.
