THE HANGCHOW BORE 241
miles farther in could not last long, and shortly after mdnight the
strain broke down and the bore started somewhere between Eambler
Island and Kanpu, and rushed up the river in a wall of water twelve
feet high. Following the bore came the after-rush which carried the
level up eight feet more. It is on this that the junks are swept up-
stream as already noted. At 1 :30 the after-rush ceased, but the water
was still somewhat higher at Eambler than at Haining, and a gentle
current continued up-stream. The water then began to fall at
Rambler, while it continued to raise at Haining up to three o'clock,
when the ebb set in. On the south bank, at any rate, for four or five
miles inside the mouth of the river, the stream commences to run out
strongly an hour before high water at Haining. The fall of the water
in the ebbing tide is not particularly interesting, for there is no bore
down-stream, although at one time there is an exceedingly swift current.
According to the reports of others, the height, speed and char-
acteristic appearance of the bore's front are maintained for fifteen
miles above Haining, after which the height decreases; and the wave
passes Hangchow city about an hour and a quarter after passing
Haining, soon after which it breaks up and gradually disappears,
though an effect is reported to be felt at times at Yenchow, some forty
miles farther up the river. At Hangchow the rise and fall does not
exceed six or seven feet. At Haining, as we have seen, the flood usually
lasts three hours ; the ebb, nine. At Hangchow the flood continues for
only one and a quarter hours and is nearly all in the bore proper.
When the moon is at the point in its orbit nearest the earth at the
same time that it is full or new, or when there are strong northerly
or easterly winds in the Chusan Archipelago, the bore generally arrives
early off Haining, travels at a greater speed than usual, and is also
higher. Natives have reported tidal waves at Haining with a height
of over thirty feet. As we have already noted, the highest bore is
generally expected on the eighteenth of the eighth moon of the Chinese
calendar.
Chinese Fancies concerning the Bore
An account of Chinese fancies concerning the tides in general fur-
nished by Professor Giles, may be found in Professor Darwin's book
already referred to, and Captain Moore in his report notes a curious
legend which ascribes the origin of the bore to the revengeful workings
of the spirit of a certain popular general who was assassinated by the
Emperor through jealousy of his growing power, and whose body was
thrown into the Ch'ien-tang Kiang. Later the Emperor sought to
check the devastation of the country which arose from this source by
making appeasing sacrifices on the sea-wall; but without effect, and
VOL. lxxii. — 16.
