242 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
it was at last decided to induce good fung-sJiui 5 by erecting a pagoda
where the worst breach in the embankment had been made. This is
the pagoda already frequently referred to and which is still in good
condition. " After it was built, the tide, though it still continued to
come in the shape of a bore, did not flood the country as before."
Fanciful as these ideas are, it is not at all surprising in view of the
awe-inspiring phenomenon which recurs at every tide, and with which
the inhabitants have had to cope perhaps from time immemorial, that
they should think of it with reverential superstition as the head of a
monster serpent which must needs be appeased. As many as five or
six thousand people have sometimes assembled on the sea-wall to
propitiate the god of the waters by throwing in offerings at a time
when the serpent under his control was raging at its highest.
Intermittency of the Bore
This legend taken in connection with the fact that Marco Polo,
who in the thirteenth century spent a year and a half in Hangchow,
does not include in his account, which otherwise pretends to great
minuteness, any reference to the bore seems to Professor Darwin to
indicate that the bore is intermittent, because the Emperor referred to
is of undoubted historical existence and antedated Marco by some cen-
turies. But Marco Polo's accounts are not to be taken entirely at their
face value as to accuracy and faithfulness, and even if the bore did
not exist in his time, the great sea-wall which was in all probability
built when the Chinese historians claim it was built by Prince Ch'ien,
viz., 911-915 a.d., must have existed, and it is hard to conceive how
he should have failed to mention such a stupendous public work,
especially when he seems to have been so keenly interested in the Grand
Canal. Either, as some authorities suggest, 6 Marco Polo never really
visited Hangchow, but got his glowing account of the city's wonders
from some native poet without admixing the proverbial grain of salt;
or else he was so enamoured with the gayeties of life at the capital that
he could not spare the time to visit Haining or the lower estuary in
person, but judged from afar that there must have been much shipping
there, for to this he alludes in several places.
As Professor Darwin finally concludes, it is very uncertain whether
the Hangchow Bore has been intermittent, but it is sure that it is liable
to considerable variation, for reports by the foreign officers who headed
the troops sent against the Taiping rebels show that the intensity of
the bore was then (1852-1864) far less than it is to-day. The ex-
6 Fung-shui, literally " wind-water," a much-used term in Chinese geomancy,
signifying propitious influence of the controling spirits involved in any under-
taking — perhaps the nearest simple English equivalent is "luck."
6 Decennial Reports, Chinese I. M. Customs, 1892-1901, Vol. II., p. 4.
