246 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
to $3,500, a maiming and a death. On another occasion an engineman
runs past a signal which the station agent declares was set at " stop,"
but which the engineer himself asserts was showing " clear." Im-
mediately after the passage of the train, the signal light was found to
have been extinguished, as it had been once before that evening; it is
not improbable, therefore, that the "clear" light which the engineer
saw was some neighboring light which he took to be his signal. His
mistake brought death to 18 persons, injury to 57 more and a loss of
$15,720.
With this evidence of the danger which lies in using white for color
signaling, and before passing on to consider red, a word should be said
of green — a color which, partly by its strong contrast with red, its
companion in the system, has found most wide acceptance. Green
stands out distinct from the common lights of street and house; it
readily makes an impression upon the normal eye. But persons who
are not color blind are liable to be weak in their sense of this
very color. And smoke, one of the great disturbers of signals on the
railway, has a serious influence upon green. For smoke, which makes
white or yellow lights look red, does this by making ineffectual the very
rays that are so important for giving a green light its greenish cast.
The simple experiment of holding a smoked glass before a green rail-
way-light will easily show how hostile smoke is to the passage of green
rays. Now when, for this or any other reason, green comes dimly to
the eye, especially when sight has grown accustomed to the dark, it has
the misfortune of appearing, not green at all, but a pale and ambiguous
light that is indistinguishable from white. Under such circumstances,
especially upon those roads where both white and green are signal
colors, the danger of their confusion is not imaginary ; nor is the danger
of green's total obscuration slight. In the records of the Interstate
Commerce Commission occur more than one instance where the failure
to observe at night a " distant " or " caution " signal, which is often
green, has been an important part of the cause of fatal accidents.
But after all, the core of the present system is red, and to this our
main attention should be given. The color is usually obtained by
bringing before the semaphore lamp a glass which, acting like a filter,
permits the passage of those rays that are red or reddish, and holds
back from the eye all other light. Such a ruby glass, by killing off in
this way all that portion of the flame's light which is green or blue or
violet, and often all that is yellow, does of necessity greatly reduce the
brightness of the signal, leaving it in many cases about one fifth as
intense as when, by the signal mechanism, the red glass is removed from
the front of the lamp. This readily explains — what any one can ob-
serve — that in a cluster of signal lights equally remote, the white
signals normally outshine to a marked degree the neighboring signals
