RAILWAY ACCIDENTS 247
that are red. This, of itself, is an undesirable condition, since the
sign of danger should of all be most outspoken.
The disadvantage under which the red danger signal labors is, how-
ever, quite insufficiently expressed by saying that the ruby glass often
virtually destroys fully four fifths of the light from a lantern flame
already none too bright, and to this extent increases the liability that
the most momentous of the signals will at some crisis be seen too late or
not at all. Even the remaining portion is often far less effectual upon
the eye than its physical quantity would lead us to expect. The im-
portance of the matter for signaling will perhaps justify some further
account.
If, by reliable devices of the laboratory, a semaphore light showing
" white " be gradually reduced in brightness, a point can easily be
found where the eye, grown accustomed to the dark, can just perceive
the light. And when for comparison a railway ruby glass, or
" roundel," is placed before the lamp, the observer now obtains no con-
scious impression at all. But instead of having to increase fivefold
the brightness coming through the glass (as one might expect, know-
ing that the red glass is pervious, say, to but one fifth of the light of
the flame), it is necessary to increase it no less than fourteenfold.
Such an increase is the least I have found necessary when experiment-
ing at night over a stretch of more than four thousand feet and when
smoke gave a relative advantage to the red. Within the laboratory the
red has never been perceptible until the light was increased eighteen
times the brightness required for white. Such, however, are the most
favorable experiments, and are by no means average ones. On the
average it is necessary to increase the light as much as thirty times
before any conscious impression at all is made by the light through the
red glass. One of the subjects of this experiment — a man who would
pass the usual tests for color-blindness — has still remained insensible
to the red when the light is increased to seventy times what is needed
for the white ! Such facts as these show clearly that by merely looking
at a cluster of railway signals, or even by taking the usual tests of
their relative intensity or visibility when shining bright, we get no
adequate idea whatever of the difficulty which the eye has with very
feeble reds. And feeble reds are no great rarity in the actual conduct
of trains. The many influences which render signal lights obscure
thus act with a peculiarly fatal force upon the very color which is
our chief reliance for the protection of life.
And the doubt thus raised regarding red is not allayed by the
reports of railway accidents. For in these reports the frequency with
which engineers fail to observe red signals at night is a most im-
pressive fact. It is often impossible to tell assuredly why men at such
times are unconscious of the danger sign; but even when allowance is
