TECHNICAL SCHOOLS 255
ing-house was a source of disaster in furnaces; while merely "prac-
tical men " were helpless before the great problems in railroad and
other types of civil engineering. There was room no longer for uned-
ucated surveyors, founders, superintendents, engineers. The skill
demanded under the new conditions converted those " callings " into
genuine learned professions, and schools of applied science were estab-
lished to fit men for them. Most of the students in those schools, now
receiving advanced education, can not afford the luxury of a college
education course, and their increasing number is due simply to the
great demand for trained men in subordinate as well as in responsible
positions.
The assertion that men go into science for the money that is in it
is merely a variation of the refrain with which the writer was familiar
during his early student days, fifty years ago. Then, the attractions
of business were the vile bait which lured men from the supposedly
unselfish pursuits. But the plaint is unworthy of the men who make
it. Students go into science as others go into law, medicine, or at
times, even into the ministry, for the " money that is in it " — that is,
to gain a livelihood in an honorable way. If a graduate in applied
science have great energy, common sense and executive ability, the
combination of business capacity with systematic training may put
him eventually into a position of great responsibility with correspond-
ing salary; but if he must follow his professional work alone, the
prospects of acquiring a competency are about as good as those of the
average clergyman.
It is unfortunate that our colleges have not made clear differen-
tiation between students in ciilture and students in applied science.
Failure to do this has brought about the tendency to confound pure
and applied science, college and professional work, which is shown by
many college graduates. If one recognizes this fact, he will be less
surprised at the frequency with which technical schools are dragged
into discussions respecting changes in the college curriculum. An
excellent illustration of the tendency referred to appears in an address
delivered at the inauguration of a college president a year or two ago.
The speaker pled for classical training, as a classical college " is the
best place in which to keep alive the heroic ideals of self-sacrifice and
service." He said:
It was urged when technical education began to be largely developed in our
land and the classics were cast out from the training of young men and women
— it was urged that this new kind of training in the precise and mathematical
sciences would breed men of firmer principles. The technical schools of our
land have not turned out men and women who see moral issues more precisely
or who live more faithfully for the right things on earth than the young men
and women who have had their education under classical influence. And the
influence of our technical schools not alone has not bred firmer principle, but it
surely has not bred finer sentiment.
