256 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
And the proof of all this lies in the fact that the speaker had sought
unsuccessfully in several technical schools for a man willing to teach
mechanical and electrical engineering under missionary auspices in a
foreign land. His argument was strengthened by the assertion of
one president that the young men in his institution were not in engi-
neering for the good they could do in the world, but for the amount
of profitable employment they could secure for themselves. And the
survey of conditions led to this forecast:
I believe we are going to have to face in this land that inevitable result of
our technical education. We have turned away young men and some young
women from the great classical ideals of self-sacrifice in fields where they could
do the most unselfish work.
These statements, made in all sincerity by one who is respected by
all who know him, appeal directly to the prejudices of many who wish
well to all mankind; but they are defective and the defect arises from
confounding things wholly unlike and unrelated.
Technical schools are not schools for the study of science, but
schools in which the principles of pure science are applied to practical
operations. Like trade schools, schools of law or medicine, they are to
prepare a man to earn a livelihood in honest and honorable fashion, to
do well that which formerly was done in slipshod fashion. Mental and
moral training, as such, have only incidental place, yet such training
is as inseparable from their work as muscular training is inseparable
from apprenticeship in blacksmithing. When one considers that stu-
dents in such schools are taught to regard theirs as professional work
of the highest grade; are taught to regard honorable dealing as the
foundation stone of a successful career; are trained from the outset to
recognize the great responsibility awaiting them, in that the security
of vast properties and the safety of communities will depend upon their
skill, accuracy and honesty ; he can not doubt that even the coarse fiber
of an unscrupulous man will undergo some refining during a four
years' course. And the facts amply confirm the a priori conclusion.
The writer knows that the moral standard among engineers of every
type — chemical, civil, sanitary, electrical, mining, mechanical — is im-
measurably higher than in the days when there were no technical
schools, when the work of such professions was left mostly to mechanics.
If the standard of professional honor were not high, very high, our
national prosperity would come to an end, for all depends on the
engineer.
There is no room for pessimism here. Men should thank God and
take courage for the future as they see the influence of technical train-
ing, which has transformed the face of the world and led to increasing
recognition of unity of interest. Improvements in mining and metal-
lurgy have brought about improved methods of transportation and
