TECHNICAL SCHOOLS 257
have cheapened products everywhere, while increasing the rewards of
labor; the beef of our southwest and. the wheat of the northwest can
be sold in London at profit to the producer, and famine in any part
of the civilized world is almost impossible; the coal of southwestern
Virginia has been sold in Boston at profit for less than the freight to
tidewater, thirty years ago, when the transporting companies were
losing money; improved methods of refining petroleum have reduced
the cost of illuminating oil to a small part of the price of thirty-five
years ago, have carried light literally into the dark places of earth,
have lengthened man's day by three hours and have given to agricul-
tural communities a social and intellectual life previously impossible;
mechanical and sanitary engineers have made possible the compulsory
introduction into tenements of comforts and conveniences which, half
a century ago, were considered luxuries even in the homes of the
wealthy. These and a multitude of other changes for the better, due
to men trained in applied science, for the most part in schools of
applied science, have in very truth brought the ends of the world to-
gether and given us a better sense of the brotherhood of man. One
may look forward confidently to the time when bricklaying will be as
dependent on scientific principles as brickmaking now is, when the
laborer will be a skilled workman and the mechanic a graduate of the
schools; when in all our literary institutions training in every depart-
ment will be supplemented by drill in the scientific mode of thought,
that men may be taught how to make inductions safely.
That no young man was found anxious or even desirous of spending
his life as teacher of engineering at meager salary amid undesirable
surroundings, practically without any reward except that of a good
conscience, is not surprising. There would have been ground for sur-
prise if one had been found. No doubt similar success would have
attended a hunt among law schools. It is probable that not more than
a few score of persons had ever heard that teaching of engineering is
a part of missionary work, and it is equally probable that no one, aside
from the few score, had ever thought of it as a possibility any more
than that of teaching American law. It might have been equally diffi-
cult, prior to the establishment of medical missions, to find volunteers
in a medical school.
Men, desirous of spending their life in work merely for the good
they may do or who are willing to devote themselves to their work for
the work's sake, without reference to their own future or to that of
their families, be they geologists, ethnologists or missionaries, are very
few — and one may say, that, all in all, it is well for the race that the
number of such self-sacrificing men and women is small. Persons of
that type choose some course which will lead to the attainment of their
object. Those desiring to be missionaries take either medical or theo-
VOL. LXXII. — 17.
