258 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
logical courses, for along those lines missionary work is pushed, and
the workers receive the reward which they regard more than they do
money. When shopwork and engineering come to be held in high
honor among missionaries, the technical schools connected with state
universities will have their share of men preparing for usefulness.
When that time arrives there will be no more insinuation that the
technical school lessens respect for principle and weakens fineness of
sentiment. At the same time, it may be remarked that labeling a man
as selfish or without the finer sentiments, simply because he is unwill-
ing to become a foreign missionary, seems to be a somewhat audacious
assumption of the Divine prerogative.
But how does this question of the technical school concern the
observance or neglect of classical studies in the college course? Not
in any wise. Classical studies have not been thrust out of the tech-
nical school, for they never were in it; they have no proper place there
any more than in schools of law or medicine. Whether or not pro-
longed classical training is desirable for those who can afford the col-
lege course prior to beginning preparation for life's work is certainly
deserving of serious consideration; and there must be much to be said
on both sides — otherwise, the discussion would not be intense as at
present. It may be that classical training, as imparted in American
colleges, is the best or even the only means of turning the youthful
mind to high ideals — but the writer hesitates to accept the proposition.
He underwent a very severe course of classical training from his sixth
to his twenty-second year, yet his memory, by no means frail, does not
recall " the great classical ideals of self-sacrifice " with which, one must
suppose, modern ideals fade into insignificance. Nor has this concep-
tion of classical training been accepted always as axiomatic. The
writer remembers an earnest discussion by several professors of theology
at his father's table, about fifty-five years ago, in which those excellent
men lamented the degrading influence of the classical authors read in
college — the same, by the way, as those read now. And doubtless some
of those reading this article will remember the efforts made by good
men to counteract this evil influence by the preparation of works in
classical Latin, dealing with the life of George Washington and other
harmless topics. The writer, however, has never been able to share
those fears. His general impression respecting the classical authors,
which seemed to be that of his fellow students, was that those writers
prepared their works chiefly to provide sentences with which Zumpt
and Kiihner might illustrate the perplexities of syntax and prosody.
