26o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
That book by " T and T'," as is well known, consists of chapters which
are more original than the papers usually read before scientific societies.
Only one volume has ever appeared — the second, alas ! alas ! never will
now.
To test the power of the Clarendon Press to publish such a book,
Tait and he wrote down at random complicated equations, lines of
wholly unintelligible reasoning, and then thought it would be a good
joke to send out the proofs — as copies of an original paper — to various
of their friends. And one day Thomson told me with a twinkle in his
eye, " Nobody has yet found any mistakes in that paper."
Every morning, except Mondays and Saturdays, Thomson lectured
twice; the first lecture, 9 to 10, was on experimental physics; the second,
11 to 12, on mathematical physics.
Electricity was the subject of the 9 to 10 lecture during a particular
session which I have in my mind. But the experiments generally went
wrong, and Thomson used modestly to say, " Faraday's result was so
and so; mine is just the opposite. But Faraday, with inferior appa-
ratus, divined the truth. Remember his result, not what you have just
seen me obtain."
Thomson with all his genius, all his power of advising how an ex-
periment should be made, with all his creative originality in suggesting
the details of scientific apparatus and methods, could not make the
experiments with his own hands. We all dreaded his touching the
apparatus which we had set up and adjusted. He was too impulsive,
too full of exuberant energy. After the apparatus was broken when
he had touched it he was profoundly sorry. At that time it gave us
the feeling that we were able to help him by trying experiments on his
behalf. But this feeling resembled that of the calculator who helped
Newton when he became too excited to finish the application of his
principles to the explanation of Kepler's laws, or the feelings of the
sculptor's assistant who transfers to marble his master's inspired crea-
tion in clay. We loved him the more that he allowed us to take a part —
we felt that we were the soldiers of a great warrior.
In his mathematical physics lectures — aye, even in his elementary
lectures — the suggestions that he poured forth were much above the
heads of the ordinary undergraduates — over 100 in this class — and
they gained little by coming to them except a register of their attend-
ance, necessary for their degrees. For, as soon as he turned round to
write on the blackboard, the students row by row began to creep out
of the lecture room through a back door behind the benches and steal
down-stairs, their bodily presence following their mental presence,
which had left as soon as the reading of the roll-call was finished.
From time to time Thomson put up his eye-glass, peered at the growing
empty space, and remarked on the curious gradual diminution of
density in the upper part of the lecture room.
