KELT IN IN THE SIXTIES 265
whom they all loved and honored. They might not be able to follow
the lecture; but the affecting appeal which preceded it touched their
hearts.
When he described to us how Joule in 1840 had experimentally
proved that the rate of production of heat was directly proportional to
the square of the electric current, and not to the first power, he used to
add, " And Joule had the honor to have his paper rejected by the Eoyal
Society. For it was an honor in those days." The rejection of the
results of experimental work, although scrupulously accurate, because the
experimenter was not already well known, filled Thomson with indigna-
tion. For example, the assertion of Sir William Snow Harris (Phil.
Trans., Roy. Soc, 1834, p. 225) that the heating power of electricity
was simply as the charge, as well as many other electrical errors which
Thomson used to dilate on, was held up to scorn before the class as
" fashion versus truth in science." In the Philosophical Magazine for
1851 Thomson published an article explaining and defending Joule's
work on the heating of conductors.
This ability to sift the wheat from the chaff, the courage to cham-
pion what he believed to be true, even if it were not the fashion, and
the readiness to give up a theory when speculation lacked accurate
experimental corroboration were marked features in Thomson's char-
acter.
During the sixties the world was very much interested in the possi-
bility of an Atlantic cable. The 1857 cable had broken while being
laid; the 1858 one had failed after one short month of existence; the
1865 cable snapped after 1,186 miles had been laid, and, although nine
days were spent in trying to pick it up, and, although it was grappled
many times, the rope broke; and this cable, like its predecessors, had
to be abandoned. A few yards of this 1865 cable that had been picked
up lay on the floor of the Glasgow laboratory and was often pointed
to by Thomson as being what had given them heart and kept off de-
spair. Then a prize of over three quarters of a million sterling was
offered to the Telegraph Construction and Maintenance Company if
they could complete the 1865 cable and lay an 1866 one. And they
won it.
While it was remaining doubtful whether the two sides of the
Atlantic would ever be coupled electrically, Thomson's secretary not
unfrequently used to be sent to the Glasgow railway station a few
minutes before the mail train started with this urgent message from
Thomson : " I have gone to White's to hurry on an instrument. The
London mail train must on no account start to-night until I come."
And such was the national importance of the problem, and such the
honor in which Thomson was held, that the station-master obeyed.
Many have used a Thomson's reflecting galvanometer and have
