266 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
regarded it merely as an extremely sensitive galvanometer without
knowing how it came into existence. It was devised by Thomson to
enable him to utilize his mathematical solution of signaling through a
long submarine cable, and was regarded of such national importance
that a private act of Parliament was sanctioned by the Privy Council
to extend the normal life of fourteen years for the patent of this cable
" speaking instrument/' as it was originally called. The invention of
this instrument marks the theoretical solution of a most important
problem, which solution Thomson found great difficulty in getting the
electrician of that day to accept.
As early as 1855 — before any long submarine cable had been con-
structed — Thomson published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society
the theory of the propagation of signals through a cable based on a
correspondence which he had had with the late Sir Gabriel Stokes, and
he showed that the book " Fourier de la Chaleur " — that " mathemat-
ical poem," as he used to call it — contained, in Fourier's mathematical
equations of the flow of heat, the entire mathematical solution of the
propagation of electric waves through a cable. From " Fourier's
series" he deduced that, whereas on a short overhead telegraph line
the signal reaches its full strength at the distant end practically as
soon as the signaler at the near end of the line begins to send it, with
a submarine cable it is retarded, spreads out, and blurs the next signal.
There is a past history effect as in politics and in many natural phe-
nomena. The passing of an act of Parliament can not suddenly change
a people; indeed, it is well known that the actual effect of an act of
Parliament promoted by well-wishers is often gradually found to be
most harmful, and has to be repealed or curbed in its action.
Herbert Spencer in his " Sociology " strongly advocated legislators
to study the science of politics. Thomson would perhaps have said,
" Study Fourier's mathematical poem."
If it were attempted to send a series of electric signals through an
Atlantic cable with the same apparatus and at the same speed as mes-
sages are sent between London and Brighton, the signaler at the far
end would not have the slightest knowledge that the signaler at this
end was trying to send a message, whatever were the strength of the
current sent into the cable. To work a long submarine cable, either
time must be allowed for each signal to grow at the distant end, or,
as this would make the sending of messages very slow, the receiving
instrument and the signaler receiving the message must, like a clever
doctor diagnosing a disease, be able to interpret mere indications.
Sending the letter " e," for example, produces at the other end of a
long cable a totally different result, depending on what has preceded it.
In no case, at a speed of, say, thirty words a minute with a 3,000-mile
cable, will it be more than a suggestion, even at the beginning of a
