2 7 o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
that which serves as food. In other words the animal responds pri-
marily to water undulations, regardless of their cause, because it is
through such undulations that it receives notice of the presence of
food. In its most typical form instinct is thus seen to be chiefly a
matter of animal organization, and the response to stimuli to be
largely mechanical. This makes stable conditions necessary if it is
to meet educational needs. But even here there is a little variation
in the manner of reaction. Necturus has learned to discriminate some-
what between experiences, for, according to Whitman, " there is unmis-
takably a power of inhibition strong enough to counteract the strongest
motive to act — the hunger of a starving animal in the presence of
food." 4 But such limited power of reaction does not go far, and it
will meet the needs of animals only so long as their life is of the
simplest sort. They are probably capable of few adaptations, and these
must be made at an enormous cost of time and life. But as life be-
comes more complex and less regular these instinctive responses do not
answer. Animals must now learn to remember, and their actions must
be guided by past experiences of threatening disaster, else they can
not survive in the struggle.
Not many experiments have been made on the educability of
animals low in the scale, but fishes have been taught to refrain from
attacking minnows that are their usual food, by separating them with
a glass partition extending across the aquarium until the larger fishes
learn by repeated bumps on the nose that the little ones are not to be
eaten. 5 Thorndike 6 has shown also that the minnow, Fundulus, can
learn to find its way through a series of three partitions, each with an
opening so located as to make the journey circuitous, and that it gradu-
ally improves on its previous record by eliminating blunders until
finally it learns to go directly to each opening. While we do not
know much about the mental processes here, it grows increasingly
harder to explain action solely by the neural mechanism. Experience
is evidently taking a more active part in the animal's life. The nervous
system is becoming more flexible, more adaptable.
Recent observation has somewhat modified our views regarding
action among lower animals. Jennings's studies 7 indicate that the
method of trial and error is common even in one-celled organisms.
This method, wherever found, unquestionably involves in some degree
the utilization of experience. Such creatures can no longer be con-
sidered as merely reflex organisms in the presence of new needs and
* hoc. cit., p. 305.
5 See statement of Moebius's experiment in Darwin's "Descent of Man,"
second edition, p. 76, and Triplett's "The Educability of the Perch," Am.
Journal of Psychology, Vol. 12, p. 354.
"Am. Naturalist, Vol. 33, p. 923.
7 " Contributions to the Study of the Behavior of Lower Organisms," p. 237 ;
Carnegie Institution, Washington, 1904. '* Behavior of Lower Organisms," 1906.
