EDUCATIONAL RECONSTRUCTION OF NATURE 271
difficulties, or, if we still designate their action in this way, the interpre-
tation of " reflex " must be profoundly altered. Throughout the
animal series improvement in the reaction to environment seems to
signify greater nervous flexibility in dealing with experience rather
than a complete change of method. In their fascinating paper 8 on
the habits of solitary wasps, the Peckhams tell of one who in filling
up her nest " put her head down into it and bit away the loose earth
from the sides, letting it fall to the bottom of the burrow, and then,
after a quantity had accumulated, jammed it down with her head. She
then brought earth from the outside and passed it in, afterwards biting
more from the sides. "When, at last, the filling was level with the
ground, she brought a quantity of fine grains of dirt to the spot and,
picking up a small pebble with her mandibles, used it as a hammer,
pounding them down with rapid strokes, thus making this spot as hard
and firm as the surrounding surface." Soon " she had dropped her
stone and was bringing more earth," 9 when she again picked up the
pebble and pounded that which was brought until all was hard.
The power to inhibit, so that the same action does not always
follow the same stimulus under the same circumstances, which was
observed in Necturus, indicates, perhaps, the first break in the
mechanism of primitive instincts. The part that experience plays in
the animal's life is becoming more immediate and direct. Just how
much consciousness is involved in this, or, indeed, whether there is
any, we do not know. Investigation has shown 10 tbat in man con-
sciousness of means is not essential to the utilization of experience and
there is certainly no reason for thinking it more necessary to the lower
animals.
In the variability of instinct, also, we find mechanical organization
less domineering, and in the study of wasps, to which we have just
referred, the one preeminent, unmistakable and ever-present fact
is variability. " Variability in every particular — in the shape of the
nest and the manner of digging it, in the condition of the nest
(whether closed or open) when left temporarily, in the method of
stinging their prey, in the degree of malaxation, in the manner of
carrying the victim, in the way of closing the nest, and last, and most
important of all, in the condition produced in the victims of the
stinging," some of them dying " long before the larva is ready to begin
on them, while others live long past the time at which they would have
been attacked and destroyed " had not the investigation " interfered
* " On the Instincts and Habits of the Solitary Wasps," by Geo. W. and
Elizabeth G. Peckham, Wisconsin Geological and Natural History Survey,
Bulletin No. 2, Scientific Series No. 1, Madison, Wis., 1898.
' hoc. cit., pp. 22-23.
10 Swift, " The Psychology of Learning," Am. Jour, of Psychology, Vol. 14,
p. 217.
11 Loc. cit., p. 30.
