298 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Philadelphia, Baltimore, Few Orleans, San Francisco, Portland and
Seattle are to be gateways for growth or mere leak-holes of national
wealth; whether the advantages of great-circle steam-lines may not
overbalance productivity and transfer dominant commercial lines and
centers beyond our boundaries; whether we are able to balance our
magnificent distances and splendid productivity in such wise as to
maintain that economy of transportation and reasonableness of de-
livery of both imports and exports requisite for a world-power! The
questions are nation-wide. Twenty-odd states and forty million in-
habitants of the interior are actually suffering from the congestion;
fifteen states and thirty million people on the Atlantic coast are com-
plaining under imposts of burdensome traffic; the western states with
their seven millions, which would triple in ten years were the burden
removed, find their growth paralyzed by the same cause.
Will the improvement of waterways and the restoration of water
traffic bring relief ? Certainly the plan promises much, while no other
promises anything. It has been estimated that our 29,000 miles of
inland waterways (exclusive of lakes, bays, sounds, etc.) might be
doubled at a cost of $500,000,000 to $800,000,000, 2 i. e., one tenth of
the amount required to raise railways to the capacity required to-day;
and it is safe to say that when the nation adopts a progressive water-
way policy, private enterprise will build the boats — and that when
this is done our great productive areas can deliver exports at and
receive imports from the coast cities at an average of not more than
half and probably less than a third of the present cost. With the
readjustment of transportation lines, the railways might change from
trans-continental carriers of bulk freight to feeders of the waterways;
yet their efficiency as public utilities need not decline, and their profits
might increase, as recently held by President Harahan (of the Illinois
Central Eailway). The superior economy of water transportation,
which has been shown statistically over and over again, may be
illustrated by the fact that a river packet can be built at a cost of
two miles of railway (including rolling stock but not right-of-way or
terminals) and will carry three 400-ton train-loads of freight; or that
a tow and barges suited to the Mississippi-Ohio traffic can be built for
the cost of four or five miles of railway and will carry 150 train-loads;
or that the entire cost of waterway development contemplated would
hardly suffice to build and equip a single trans-continental double-
track railway with the requisite rights-of-way and terminals.
Nor is waterway improvement a new venture, involving unknown
2 The Bartholdt bill now before the house of representatives provides for a
bond issue of $500,000,000 for waterway improvement; the Newlands bill pend-
ing in the senate provides for a waterway fund of $50,000,000 to be continued
by appropriations or bond issues as needed.
