;o8
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
/
Fig. 6. Pupa of Spalgis, showing "monkey
face." (From figure published, 1892, in' Psyche.)
of what species, is taken from
a photograph of a dried speci-
men. It has the face-like ap-
pearance, and suggests amus-
ingly the restoration of the
Brontosaurus, in the American
Museum.
Still another meaningless
resemblance is in the death's
head moth, Acherontia atropos.
which shows a " remarkably
faithful delineation of a skull
and bones upon the back of
the thorax." And in allied
species the skull is even more
sharply pictured — in A. lach-
esis, for example, where it
appears in minature size.
A less familiar case, and as obviously meaningless, is the resem-
blance to a cuttle fish, which one finds in the end view of the larva of
the crane-fly, Tipida abdominalis, Fig. 8. This appearance might
conceivably inspire a wholesome dread among some marine creatures —
but the fact remains that the present larva lives in wet rotten wood (or
under ground) where an octopus-like resemblance could not benefit it.
Indeed among insects one may find numerous instances of accidental
resemblances. Some pupae we have already referred to. Others, bom-
bycids, for example, suggest mummy cases, the region of wings,
antennae and tongue, picturing both in form and proportions the
Egyptian head-gear and beard. It is improbable, to say the least,
that the Egyptians arrayed their dead after the fashion of a pupa
to encourage a teleological analogy, for one reason, since the headdress
and beard were displayed in a similar fashion dur-
ing the lifetime of the individual. Striking, too,
are pictures which one sometimes finds on the wings
of butterflies — among these, as Mr. Beutenmiillei
showed me, are the heads of French poodles, which
appear en silhouette on the wings of the orange-
colored butterfly, Colias (ccesonia and eurydice).
And on the hind wings of the ragged butterflies
fig. 7. PuPAOF.Fe/1- (flntpta), as every one knows, appear commas and
'' S flce"" SP ' showing semicolons printed in silver upon an otherwise dull-
colored wing. In the group of bugs (Hemiptera) one
recalls the initial W, which occurs in certain cicadas, and there is the
interesting case of the tree-hopper, Membracis binotnta. to which Pro-
fessor Wheeler drew my attention. This tree-hopper and its young
