BE SEMBLANCES AMONG ANIMALS 3 11
butterfly with folded wings to a leaf more remarkable than the appear-
ance of a human face on the back of a crab? For the contrast, when
dissected, would give us in the one case the characters — leaf-shape,
color, midrib, reversed markings (veins) on one side of midrib, con-
cealed legs and antenna 3 , " petiole," and fungus-like patches, as op-
posed, in the case of the crab, to the equally complicated characters —
human face, color, young, oriental, primitive Japanese, drowned. It
is only fair to conclude, therefore, that if a meaningless variation can
produce the Taira crab, it might equally well have produced Kallima.*
The conclusion, indeed, that Kallima formed the apex of a series of
selected changes, is, on our present evidence as to the habits of this
insect, hardly different in kind from the assumption that the present
perfection of the skull on the death's head moth is the result of selective
f\ \
r
Fig. to. Fruit of the Garden Snap-dragon, Antirrhinum.
changes, through whose agency this form came gradually to be avoided
and thus secured immunity from, by superstitious man, an important
enemy ! In fact, in this case, there is actually a stronger body of
evidence that the moth is avoided by man than that Kallima is over-
looked by birds.
In a word, it is a fair conclusion that our notions of protective
resemblance and mimicry are carried in numerous instances farther
than the law allows. And one does not have to go far afield for cases
in point. Thus- the snake's head which is pictured on the wing tip of
an East Indian moth, Attaots atlas, does not strike one as a convincing
ease of mimicry, in spite of Weismann's arguments. It is true that
the snake is strikingly portrayed, both in color, poise and expression,
and we will readily admit that it might give a wholesome jolt to some
enemy of the moth which happened to see it just at the right angle.
But the picture in this instance is not more striking than many of the
meaningless resemblances we have quoted (e. g., the French poodle
pictured on the wing of Colias), and I think we may reasonably de-
mand definite experimental proof before accepting the " mimicry." In
certain other instances one can not feel assured that the resemblance
is of actual value to the " protected " form. As an instance of this,
4 In this connection, cf. a note in Science, Vol. XVI., p. 832, in which the
present "writer comments upon the scantiness of evidence as to the protective
value of the characters of Kallima, and notes the appearance of this insect on
and near leaves which it in no wav resembled.
