3 i2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
I recall the living IcMhyophis, the curious burrowing salamander,
which I once had the opportunity of observing in Ceylon. This is
surprisingly like a worm in many regards, yet a mimic it can not be,
since it could derive no profit from the resemblance, the worm being
infinitely less protected than itself. If any mimicry could exist in this
case it is clearly in the opposite direction, the worm mimicking the
salamander, but this possibility is precluded since the mimicking form
is infinitely more plentiful than the mimicked, and, most significant,
neither form is apt to expose itself in a light where the resemblance
would have any value. None the less the mutual resemblance is quite
striking — in shape, proportions, size, color, annulation, movements,
position of vent, etc. Yet we can only interpret it as due to parallelism.
And if this is the case, may not parallelism, i. e., similarity in struc-
tures due to similarity in habits, not mere accidental resemblance, be
taken as a further clanger in interpretation.
For the rest we may query, as others have done, whether the
importance of protective coloration and mimicry may not be still
further diminished when we eliminate our anthropomorphic conception
of the senses of the lower animals. For we may reasonably harbor the
suspicion that colors and patterns, which to man seem protective, are
by no means as valuable as protection against the keener and more
specialized visual impressions of the lower animals. For just as
" scent " perception in certain invertebrates, as in various moths, is
immeasurably refined, far more so than we are in the habit of con-
ceiving the scent-sense, so also there may have been developed a special
sense for detecting- the most subtle differences in color, texture, form
in those animals which prey upon mimetic and protectively colored
forms. Indeed, such a view is the less unreasonable when one con-
siders the condition of the optic centers and end organs in those verte-
brates, teleosts. reptiles, amphibia, birds, which have most to do with
creatures in which protective coloration and mimicry is supposed to
occur most abundantly. And it is not beyond the pale of possibility
that the predatory forms have evolved habits in connection with sense-
organs which would cause them to distinguish more promptly the pro-
tected forms than those having bright and obvious colors. It is in
this direction that we have need of close observation and critical
experiment.
