TILE HISTORY OF SCIENCE 315
productions of the creative imagination, and therefore the study of
its history, when properly conducted, should shed immediate light on
the problem of determining the nature of the psychic condition of a
people at any epoch, i. e., the character of the culture epoch, and of
discovering the mechanism of the change from that epoch to the next.
II. But, supposing this to have been accomplished — which has not
vet by any means been done — what good will result ? Why should we
care to gain an insight into the psychic development of a nation ?
One immediate consequence of this sort of historical study would
be the much-desired humanizing of science; for we should be compelled
to recognize the various ways in which science has cooperated with the
other phases of human activity in bringing us into our present condi-
tion. Still another fruitful consequence would be the gradual extinc-
tion of the pernicious notion that scientific conclusions are final — that
the ipse dixit of science permanently settles all controversy. Other
specific benefits might be mentioned : but in this case also all roads lead
to Borne, since the central idea of all the reasons for the study of the
sort of history that has just been defined is the idea of the analogy or
correspondence which exists between the development of a nation and
that of each individual of that nation. It is the idea expressed in the
Gliedganzes of Froebel, in the parallelism between the ontogenetic and
the phylogenetic series of Baldwin, etc. It is the idea expressed by
Lamprecht when he says : " History in itself is nothing more than ap-
plied psychology." 1 * According to this idea we must study the past
evolution of science in a people or in a type of civilization in order to
understand the evolution of science in the present individuals of that
people or of that type of civilization: and conversely, the psychological
study of the growth of scientific concepts in the individual sheds light
on the scientific growth of the nation.
The meaning and the importance of this idea, not only to teachers
of science but to teachers generally, have not yet become fully apparent.
Some go so far as to ridicule it. Thus in a very able address on the
" Order and Development of Studies suited to Each Stage," Superin-
tendent Wm. E. Chancellor, of Washington, I). C, reaches the follow-
ing conclusion : x
In this presentation. I have absolutely rejected two familiar theories; that
the child must pass through the history of the race, and that he must be pre-
pared directly for participation in the affairs of the modern world. . . . And I
have said in terms as unequivocal as they are brief that, to my thinking, as I
view the external world of reality and the real world of the soul, we shall find
our solution in a genetic psychology that reveals the processes and stages, the
functions and the interests, the motives and the ideals, and the principles of the
soul as it journeys and sojourns from birth to death.
1 Report of the Department of Superintendence, 1907, p. 80.
,a " What is History?" p. 29.
