3 i8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
have been determined. The importance of this function of the critical
faculty in scientific work is too often overlooked; for it is not always
so agreeable to remember that criticism is as fundamental a necessity
for creative work as is imagination. Since this interplay between the
imaginative and the critical faculties is not so well known as the scien-
tific method, we may say that a problem is solved scientifically when
its solution has been obtained by the scientific method.
It is important to notice that this definition of science as problem-
solving shifts the emphasis in the scientific work from classified knowl-
edge, which is the result of the process, to the process itself, by which
the result is obtained. It must also be noted that this definition is
more comprehensive than that of classified knowledge, since it may
include the operations of a savage in learning to fish and hunt, as well
as work by this method in subjects not ordinarily considered parts of
science, like classical philology, higher criticism, philosophy and even
commerce and politics — not to mention tbeology.
This third point may now lie summarized as follows: The thing
Avhose history is to be studied under the title of history of science is
not classified knowledge, the finished product; but it is problem-solving
by the scientific method, that active creative process which involves the
properly coordinated use of both the imaginative and the critical
faculties.
IV. When we attempt to interpret the history of science in the light
of the principles just explained, we are bewildered by the complexity
and the magnitude of the task. How may any one ever hope to unravel
the tangled mass of material that confronts us, or to bring order out
of the apparent chaos of problems which have engaged the attention
and taxed the energies of mankind. Consider how intricate and how
seemingly inexplicable are the problems that overwhelm each indi-
vidual : how much greater must be the intricacy and the almost hopeless
mystery of the problems that vex an entire nation at any epoch ! For-
tunately, some progress has been made since the time of Hesiod, who
wrote: "In the beginning there existed Chaos," the modern view hav-
ing been expressed by Chamberlain 4 in the words : " No. Chaos has
always been at home only in the human mind, never elsewhere."
Hence, it is no longer allowable to regard the attempt to find a rational
interpretation of the history of science as foolhardy.
A good deal of progress has already been made toward the produc-
tion of a history of science along the lines here indicated, and a number
of practically valuable conclusions have already been reached. For
example, the recent discussions of the origin of problems is tending to
clarify our notions of how science (problem-solving) originates. This
is evidently one of the first phenomena demanding interpretation at the
4 Grundlagen des neunzehnten Jahrhunderts," p. 737.
