THE llf STORY OF SCIENCE 319
hands of the historian of science. In this matter the historian of
science may he of great assistance to the psychologists among whom the
discussions are being carried on ; since, because of the analogy of the
individual and the nation, the origin of a problem in the one may throw
light on the similar process in the other.
This may be illustrated by numerous examples. Thus, some psy-
chologists claim that the problems of science grow out of the practical
needs of social and economic life. For example, to the primitive man
the problem of catching the fish becomes real and definite because of
his hunger. In like manner, the problem of the steam engine devel-
oped only after there was urgent need of such a machine for mining
purposes; and the problem of the electric telegraph was defined by a
marked social demand for a quick method of sending messages. The
modern inventor finds the impulse to invention in his hope of gaining
material reward for a more efficient machine, etc. But while this ex-
planation of the origin of problems may do for those that fall within
the realm of applied science, some think that it is not so useful when
applied to the problems of pure science, like that of the motions of the
solar system, the phenomena of universal gravitation, etc.
In order to account for the origin of this latter type of problem, it
has been claimed that the prime factor in the definition of the problems
that go to make up science is not to be found in the practical or con-
crete external situation, but rather in some internal ideal or desire or
feeling with which an individual becomes inspired, he knows not how
or whence. According to this view, an individual may notice an ex-
ternal phenomenon over and over again without its defining in him a
problem. It is only when he notices in the phenomenon two or more
factors that do not seem to him to be in harmony — not to accord with
some cherished or imagined ideal — that a state of curiosity or of mental
tension is induced ; and when this condition is reached, he has a prob-
lem defined within him, which, if he have any real scientific spirit, does
not suffer him to rest until his curiosity is satisfied or his mental ten-
sion eased. When this latter state is reached, he is said to have found
an " explanation," and the problem is for him solved.
These statements are, of course, but the crudest possible descriptions
of but two of the points of view from which the origin of problems has
been approached. It will require considerable discussion and study
before the whole matter will be cleared up in a tolerably satisfactory
manner. But even though the question is far from settled, two impor-
tant conclusions follow at once from either or both of the points of
view just outlined. The first is this: Science is not the source of the
progress of civilization. It is rather the faithful handmaid who helps
us truly to satisfy the practical needs of society as they become mani-
fest, and to achieve the purposes, ideals, or whatever they are, that
