o
20 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
spring up within us somehow to disturb our peace of mind. In other
words, scientific problems, and therefore science, originate in either the
external situations of concrete experience, or in our ideals, or in both,
and hence these latter and not the former are the real source of prog-
ress. Thus progress is simply a process of self-realization of society,
and science is a powerful tool for the successful carrying on of the
process.
The other important conclusion applies to the teaching of science,
and it is too patent to need more than statement. It is this: Science
in the individual child arises, as it has in society, from either the outer
surroundings or the inner purposes of the child. Unless the problem
whose partial solution we wish to teach the child spring up within him
from either outer or inner necessity, the problem is not his own prob-
lem, it is not real to him, and, therefore, its solution is not real to him
and so makes no impression. Hence the skill in teaching science is a
skill in presenting facts in such a way that the problems whose solutions
we wish to teach become the child's own problems. It is thus a skill in
causing problems to become defined in the child's mind. The science
of the child, like the science of humanity, consists, then, in his own
solving of problems that seem to him to arise naturally, either out of
his own practical necessities of his own social and economic life, or out
of his own purposes, ideals or aspirations that seem to him to have
sprung up spontaneously within him. This sort of teaching is quite
a different matter from that which generally passes under the name of
science teaching, namely, learning the laws and principles of science
from a book by memory, with some laboratory and lecture experiments
thrown in gratis by way of illustration.
V. So much for the light thrown on present conditions by the study
of the origin of scientific problems. But one other example will be
added to show the sort of interpretations that may be reached through
a study of the way in which various peoples have used their creative
imaginations in solving their problems after they had once become
defined. For this purpose a problem in applied science will be more
illuminating, so we will take this : How was the problem of satisfying
the human need of worship solved by the Greeks and by the people of
the middle ages? Both expressed their solutions in concrete form in
buildings, which still stand as permanent expressions of the workings
of their respective creative imaginations.
The Greek temple was a larger and somewhat idealized man's dwell-
ing — a home for deified men and women. It was limited in design to
straight lines, since the idea of a curved arch had not yet been achieved
in practise. Yet it was a perfect realization of the conception which
it was intended to embody — a limited conception, since the idea of deity
which makes God to consist of heroic or idealized men and women must
