THE HISTORY OF SCIENCE 321
necessarily be cramped and limited. The Greek temple was not in-
tended for public worship of an invisible God, but for the actual resi-
dence of their many humanized gods. From this it may appear that
their religion was man-made, i. e., that it was no real religion, but
only a philosophy; and so we are in a better position to comprehend
the classical ancestor worship and the Lares and Penates. When we
start from this center we may also get a better insight into the Greek
character as a whole.
The middle-age cathedral, on the other hand, bore no resemblance
to the dwellings of men. It was a lofty edifice with numerous spires
pointing to heaven. It was built for public worship of one God, and
was adorned at every point with a richness of tracery and design that
would bewilder the observer of to-day were it not so harmonious in all
its parts. The conceptions embodied in it are wholly distinct from
those ultimated in the Greek temple, showing what a complete and
fundamental change in the idea of divinity had come over mankind.
The cathedral was not the perfect realization of a limited ideal, but the
imperfect realization of an unlimited ideal; and this shows a vast ex-
pansion and elevation of the conception of religion — an expansion and
elevation that must be ascribed wholly to the christian religion.
Furthermore, the effort to realize these expanded and elevated ideals
led to the definition and the solution of numerous practical problems
in applied science. The construction of a Greek temple is a simple
engineering feat when compared with that of a Gothic cathedral. The
solution of these engineering problems lead to the definition of others;
and so we see in the middle ages a great development of skill in all
sorts of manual arts, carving, metal working, stone cutting, weaving,
printing, etc., all before modern science made any pretense of being
extant.
Time forbids the following of the argument into detail. There are
just two important conclusions that seem to be justified by this com-
parative study. I will, in closing, state them ; and leave the reader to
find out if, after further study, he too finds them justified. The first
is this: Since Christianity was the source of the ideals that led to the
construction of the cathedrals; and since this work and these ideals
led to the definition and solution of many problems in applied science;
and since the solution of problems in applied science precedes and pre-
pares the way for the definition of problems in pure science; therefore,
we may make the hypothesis, subject to further verification, that mod-
ern science owes its origin from the side of the imagination to Christi-
anity. Hence the so-called warfare of science and religion is but a
sham battle between science and dogmatic theology — between reason
and unreason. Modern science is, from this point of view, really the
child of Christianity.
vol. lxxii. — 21.
