326 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ether on the one hand and the relations of electricity to matter on the
other. It is in this last and more complicated phase of our suhject
that the most brilliant advances have recently been made.
To state the case between electricity and ether, we must begin with
Faraday and some of the mental images he formed of the connection
between them, which have proved at once the most simple and useful
aids to thought to be found in the whole history of physics. Faraday
realized as well, perhaps, as we do to-day that electricity could no more
be made outright than could matter. The utmost which could be
done was to separate positive and negative electricity. If, therefore,
any one exhibited a positive charge, there was somewhere in the universe
an equal negative charge, to which it was drawn by invisible means
across the intervening space.
Faraday maintained the forces of attraction were due to some kind
of strain in the ether lying between. To picture the more vividly to
himself and to others, the character of the stresses in this medium
transmitting the force which one charge exerts upon another, he sup-
posed contractile filaments called lines of force to traverse the ether
between the charges. To make the case more definite he gave direction
to these lines, assuming that they originated on the positive charge
and terminated on an equal negative charge near-by, or far away, ac-
cording to circumstances.
The motions of electric charges when free to move, and the dis-
tribution of stresses in the ether round-about, show that all happens as
if each line of force were pulling like a stretched elastic thread to
shorten itself and draw the charges together, and at the same time
unlike any elastic thread we know, it was repelling or pushing sidewise
at the other force lines near it.
If a charge of positive electricity be given to a metal sphere, and the
negative charge from which it has been separated be dissipated to
remote bodies or be carried so far away that its position is no longer
of any immediate importance, lines of force will start from the spherical
surface of the conductor in all outward directions, and will be precisely
radial. As many lines will leave from any one half of the sphere as
from another. This equal radial arrangement of the lines of force is
produced by the sidewise shoving of each line of force upon its neigh-
bors until the stresses in the ether at the bounding surface of the metal
are equal on all sides.
If now the metal sphere with its charge be put in steady motion, it
will carry its lines of force along with it, and if the motion be not too
swift, all the lines of force will continue radial. But with this motion
of the lines of electric force through the ether, a wholly new and addi-
tional ethereal force appears — a magnetic force which did not exist
when the charge was at rest. This magnetic force is always at right
angles both to the lines of electric force and to the direction of their
