PHYSICS 329
electric charge. These processions are always double, the atomic
carriers of the positive charge moving in one direction, those carrying
the negative charge in the other. The same quantity of positive elec-
tricity is carried by one procession, as negative electricity by the other.
We have not only measured the charge carried by a single atom, but the
average speed with which the atoms traverse the solution. It has been
found, further, that atoms of the different chemical elements having the
same mating value, technically called valence, always carry the same
unvarying charge, whether the atoms themselves be light or heavy.
These charged atoms, in some cases atom groups, are spoken of as ions.
Such electrolytic experiments as these have led to two surprising
results. First : no electric charge smaller than that carried by an atom
of the hydrogen valence has yet been found. Second : all other small
charges are exact multiples of this value.
We have long been familiar with the idea of atoms of matter, but
here for the first time we come across something which looks very like
an atom, or natural unit, of electricity. The justification for calling it
an atom of electricity is like the argument for the atom of matter.
Moreover, we know some eighty different kinds of material atoms, but
only two kinds of electric atoms, a positive and a negative. Thus the
electric atom of the two has the greater claim to simplicity. When we
speak of an electric atom disregarding for the time the matter asso-
ciated with it, we call it, not an ion, but an electron. Evidence will
later be given suggesting ways by which we may wrench a negative
electron wholly free from matter, and experiment with it in its detached
and pure state.
We are now in a position to consider the role electric forces play in
holding atoms together within a compound molecule, for, from the
foregoing, it appears when a molecule is broken in two, the fragments
are always found equally and oppositely charged, and they doubtless
held these charges within the molecule. But the distance separating
the two parts was then so small that all the lines of force from the
positive charge ended at once on the equal negative charge, and no
force lines strayed beyond the molecular boundary. Hence no evidence
of an electrical charge could be found in the ether outside the molecule.
It seems probable, therefore, that the electric force between the atoms
of matter in the molecule supplies the chemist with the cement he has
long called chemical affinity.
The ratio of the electric charge to the mass of the particle on which
it rides (in our processions) has come to be one of the most important
quantities in physics. As we know both the quantity of matter and
quantity of electricity transferred by a given electric current, we can
express this ratio for each chemical element. Hydrogen gives the
largest ratio found in solutions.
Systematic study of the conduction of electricity in gases is of more
