332 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
To bring the essential features of this remarkable experiment
before you, I must begin some way off by reminding you of several
things you already know. For instance, the quantity of water vapor
which a given volume of air at ordinary pressures can hold without
depositing it as a mist or rain increases with the temperature. If air
enclosed in a vessel is allowed to expand suddenly its temperature falls.
If the air were initially saturated with water vapor, after the expansion
some of the vapor will go into mist or rain, provided any nuclei are
present upon which the excess vapor can condense. In the ordinary
fog or shower the dust particles always present in the open air act as
nuclei for the formation of drops. Small free charges of electricity
or ions serve the same purpose and the negative ions are more effective
condensers than the positive, hence they come down first.
In a complicated vessel, which need not be described, Professor
Thomson admitted dust-free air saturated with water vapor. This
mixture was allowed to expand several times to make sure of freeing
it from accidental dust or ions which might be present. The former
pressure was then restored and the gas ionized by admitting X-rays
through the thin aluminum lid of the gas chamber. The next expan-
sion, chosen sufficient in amount to cause condensation on the negative
but not on the positive ions, caused a copious cloud of mist which
gradually settled by its own weight to the bottom of the vessel. The
top of the cloud as it fell was sharply defined, and its rate of descent
could be measured.
Sir George Stokes many years before had calculated the rate of fall
of small spherical bodies through air, and one needed to know only the
density of a small sphere and its rate of fall to compute its size. The
approximate volume of the individual drops could thus be found. The
quantity of water in the whole shower could also be easily determined,
hence the number of drops, equal to the number of negative ions upon
which they might form, could be calculated.
In another way Professor Thomson could measure the total quan-
tity of free negative electricity present in the chamber when the fog
was precipitated. He had thus the number of negative ions and the
sum of their charges, and therefore the charge each carried.
The charge Professor Thomson found as the result of his brilliant
experiment was the atom of electricity over again. After this it was
impossible to escape the conclusion that the bodies flying in the cathode
stream were masses no greater than the one one-thousandth part of the
hydrogen atom. Thus matter, or electricity, or something exists, which
measured by inertia is a thousand times smaller than the lightest known
atom of matter. Furthermore, the kind of gas in which the cathode
discharge took place had no effect upon either the charge or the mass
of the particles, which bear no observable earmarks to reveal the kind
