THE RESPIRATION OF AN INLAND LAKE 337
THE RESPIRATION OF AN INLAND LAKE 1
By Proffssor E. A. BIRGE
SECRETARY OF THE COMMISSIONERS OF FISHERIES, WISCONSIN
AN inland lake has often been compared to a living being, and this
has always seemed to me one of the happiest of the attempts to
find resemblances between animate and inanimate objects. Unlike
many such comparisons, which turn on a single point of resemblance
and whose fitness disappears as soon as the objects are viewed from a
different position, the appropriateness of this increases rather than
diminishes as our knowledge both of lakes and of living beings is
enlarged.
The lake, like the organism, has its birth and its periods of growth,
maturity, old age and death; and this fact is an obvious one, for of all
the larger features of the landscape, the lake is the youngest and the
most temporary. Its birth lies in the recent past, and in no very long
space of time its existence must come to an end. In any lake dis-
trict, lakes may be found in all stages of maturity and decay, and many
dead lakes will be seen — places where lakes once existed which are now
extinct. Lakes show not only the cycle of individual existence, but
also the rhythm of seasonal activity. The activity of the lake in sum-
mer, both physical and vital, contrasts sharply with its torpidity in
winter. And the lake resembles the organism not only in its annual
recurrence of activity. The comparison may be pushed farther and
extended to the minor fluctuations of the vigor of vital manifestations
which characterize lake and organism alike.
In all these points, and in many others, the lake resembles a living
being; but in no respect does it resemble an organism more closely
than in the topic on which I am going to speak to you, namely, its
respiration. In this comparison, the resemblance is rather in processes
and operations than in form. The lake is morphologically a very
simple creature, resembling rather a gigantic amoeba than a more
highly organized being. Perhaps it would be better to compare the
lake, for the purpose of this subject, not with the organism as a whole,
but with the special respiratory substance of the animal — the blood.
Like the blood of the higher animals, the lake consists of an un-
organized fluid — the plasma of the blood and the water of the lake —
and of numerous organized and actively living parts — cells in the case
Address of the President at the Thirty-sixth Annual Meeting of the
American Fisheries Society, Erie, Pa., July 23-25, 1907.
vol. lxxii. — 22.
