33ยง POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
of the blood, and the plants and animals in the lake. As is the case in
the animal, the respiratory gases are absorbed and transmitted to the
living structures by means of the unorganized fluid. It is my purpose
to trace in outline the history of these processes and their result upon
the activity of the lake.
*J
The respiration of the lake, like that of the higher animal, may be
divided into external and internal respiration. By the former we
understand the adsorption of certain gases from the air and the return
of other gases to it, as well as the processes by which this exchange is
effected. We include in it also the methods by which the gases are
distributed in the lake and conveyed to and from the surface of the
water, which takes them from the atmosphere and gives them back to
it. By internal respiration we mean the gaseous exchanges which take
place in the lake itself, between its various organisms and the water
surrounding them. With these exchanges come the chemical processes
by which the character of the gases is altered or new gases manu-
factured, in the course of the vital activities of the inhabitants of the
lake.
The external respiration of the lake closely resembles that of the
organism. The lake absorbs oxygen, carbon dioxide and nitrogen from
the atmosphere, and returns to it nitrogen, carbon dioxide and some-
times other gases. The nitrogen absorbed by the lake, like that taken
in by an animal, has very little or nothing to do with the vital processes.
In autumn, as the lake cools, larger amounts of nitrogen are absorbed,
according to the general law of absorption of gases. As the lake
warms during the summer season, the capacity for holding gases in
absorption becomes smaller and some of the nitrogen is lost. This
process is a purely physical one and has apparently no influence on the
life of any of the organisms whose home is in the water.
The relation of the oxygen to life is, however, far different, and the
processes of external respiration are of prime importance to the living
beings of the lake. Speaking roughly, and in terms of our comparison,
we may say that an inland lake is an organism which takes one full
inspiration in the fall, and another, less complete, in the early spring;
that during the winter it does not breathe at all and during the summer
has only a very shallow and imperfect respiration. As the lake cools in
the fall the temperature becomes uniform from top to bottom at a date
which will vary from late September to late November or early De-
cember, according to the area and the depth of the lake and the con-
sequent temperature of the bottom water, the volume of water to be
cooled, and the vigor of the cooling processes. When the temperature
has thus become uniform, the water of the lake is readily moved
throughout its entire depth by the wind. It is turned over and all
parts of it are brought into contact with the atmosphere. As a result,
