340 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
warmed water is, of course, lighter than the cooler water below and
tends to float upon it. The difference in density thus caused makes it
increasing^ difficult for the wind to create and maintain a complete
circulation of the water. For a time the action of the wind may con-
tinue to mix each successive stratum of water with that below it, the
mixture extending to the bottom of the lake. But this action is a very
different thing from a complete overturning of the water; and while
it results in raising the temperature of the lower water, it does not carry
freely oxygen to the bottom. Thus, when the surface becomes decidedly
warmer than the water below it, the bottom water, though it con-
tinues to warm, is withdrawn from direct contact with the air and is
therefore at a disadvantage in the matter of gaining a new supply of
oxygen.
As the season advances this stratification of water dependent on
temperature becomes accentuated, and the lake becomes separated into
two parts: an upper warm stratum of nearly uniform temperature,
beneath which lies the cold water consisting of a transition layer — the
thermocline — in which the temperature is rapidly falling, and below
this the mass of the cold water whose temperature ordinarily falls
rather slowly with the depth until the bottom of the lake is reached.
The thickness of the upper layer varies with the size of the lake, from
ten to twelve feet to thirty or forty feet. It is present as a definite and
permanent layer at a date varying with the area of the lake from late
April to the middle of July. It increases in thickness after the cooling
of the lake begins, but does not change much before that process com-
mences.
This upper layer is subject to the direct action of the wind, is kept
in circulation, and may be saturated with oxygen, or nearly so, but the
only new supply of oxygen which the lower water can gain must come
to it indirectly from the upper stratum. This condition of permanent
stratification of the water comes on at the time when the life of the
lake and its consequent need of oxygen are rising to the maximum, with
the increasing warmth of summer and the development of life. The
consumption of oxygen for the purposes of decomposition is also at a
maximum. The separation of the lower water from the atmosphere in
summer by a thick layer of warm water is therefore a much more serious
thing than the separation of the water from the air in winter by ice.
In winter the demand for oxygen is at a minimum and the stock con-
tained in the water is at a maximum. In summer both of these condi-
tions are exactly reversed. It is therefore necessary for us to inquire
as to the means which the lake has for absorbing oxygen from the air
and its means of transporting the gas from the surface to the place
where it is to be used, and to note the efficiency of these processes as
compared with the call for oxygen in the summer life of the lake.
