THE RESPIBATION OF AN INLAND LAKE 341
The absorption and distribution of oxygen constitute one of the
fundamental problems of life for any large and active organism. The
difficulty of solving the problem is increased by the fact that no large
reserve stock of oxygen can be maintained. In the case of a human
being there may a food supply in the tissues sufficient to sustain life
for weeks, even though no new supply is taken in. There is water
enough in the body to maintain life for days; but if the supply of
oxygen is shut off, life can be continued only for a very few minutes on
the stock of oxygen contained in the body. So narrow is the space
between abundance of oxygen and death from oxygen starvation. In a
cold-blooded animal — with which the lake ought to be compared —
processes of respiration are slower, but the relative situation is not
materially different. The result of these conditions is that in any large
animal enormous surfaces must be provided for the absorption of
oxygen and there must be a very perfect mechanism for its distribution.
Such respiratory systems exist in a great variety of forms, many of
which are extremely complex and efficient. In the case of man the ab-
sorbing surface of the lungs is said to amount to about two thousand
square feet — an area as great as that of floor, ceiling and walls of a
room 20 feet square and 15 feet high. The necessity for arrange-
ments for a large absorbing surface increases with the size of the
animal, since in a large organism the area of the general surface is far
smaller in proportion to its mass than in a small organism of the
same shape. In a lake, whose size is enormous as compared with that
of any living being, the absorbing surface is very small as compared
with its mass ; being only the upper surface of the water. The lake is,
therefore, at a great disadvantage in the matter of absorbing oxygen
as compared with the animal. Still further, all higher animals, both
cold-blooded and warm-blooded, contain in their blood some chemical
substance which has a special affinity for oxygen and which can rapidly
pick up large quantities of it. Such a substance is wholly lacking in
the water of the lake, whose respiratory power is correspondingly
small as regards both the rapidity with which oxygen can be taken
up and the amount which can be absorbed. It is indeed true that
water will absorb, according to the general laws of the absorption of
gases, about twice as much oxygen as nitrogen under similar conditions.
This fact allows the lake to take in a larger stock of oxygen than would
otherwise be possible, and that part of the atmosphere which is dis-
solved in the lake contains about one third oxygen instead of one
fifth, as is the case outside. But even this amount is very little in
comparison with the enormous volumes which a substance like hemo-
globin can take up. It is also true that the mass of the water of the
lake, in comparison with the mass of the organisms which draw their
oxygen from it, is relatively far greater than the mass of the blood
