THE RESPIRATION OF AN INLAND LAKE 345
complex relations of carbon dioxide gas in the lake. These matters,
however, can better be spoken of under internal respiration. I need
only say here that the accumulation of waste gases in the lower water
does not seem to affect life unfavorably if there is plenty of oxygen
present also. Respiratory inefficiency limits life in a lake because of
lack of oxygen rather than because it allows poisonous gases to collect
in large quantities.
The subject of internal respiration deals with the changes of gases
within the lake itself and with the manufacture of gases by the organ-
isms which inhabit it. No branch of physiology is more intricate and
none less understood than is that of internal respiration. This is true
also of the internal respiration of the lake. The gaseous exchanges and
the manufacturing operations in the interior of a lake are far more
complex than those of any animal. From the water living beings are
drawing supplies of gas, each after its kind, and to the water each is
contributing gases differing in amount and composition. Animals are
withdrawing oxygen from the water and giving carbon dioxide to it.
Algae are repeating this process by night and exactly reversing it by day.
Fungi and bacteria are using oxygen in the course of their internal
vital activities ; they are employing far larger quantities in the fermen-
tative processes which they maintain. The innumerable chemical
changes included in decomposition and fermentation, going on under
all sorts of conditions, involving numerous kinds of materials, and
operated by various organisms, are adding to the water gases of dif-
ferent kinds and in varying proportions. The upper water, the lower
water and the mud present very dissimilar fields of work to the organ-
isms which inhabit them. It is, therefore, impossible even to attempt
a picture of the internal respiration, with its countless operations, each
adding to or subtracting from the sum of gases in the lake; in an in-
tricate network of processes, consecutive, correlative and antagonistic;
connected by relations which cross and interlock at a thousand points.
I shall speak of only a few detached topics.
I have said that the oxygen of the lake is absorbed from the air.
This is true so far as the main stock of oxygen is concerned ; but a lake
has a second source of oxygen which is always considerable and which
in certain places and relations may become important. The green
plants which inhabit the lake are able to take up carbon dioxide from
the water, and under the influence of light they can use it in the manu-
facture of starch, setting free oxygen in the process. In lakes which
contain an abundance of alga?, considerable quantities of oxygen may
arise from this source and this manufactured oxygen may play an
important part in the vital history of the lake.
Consider the effect of the addition of this power of the alga? to the
numerous factors which are affecting the supply of oxygen in the upper
