346 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
water of the lake in summer. If the oxygen of this region is studied,
it rarely happens that the quantity found is the amount which would
be theoretically expected, according to the laws of the absorption of
gases by water at different temperatures. It is sometimes largely in
excess of the theoretical amount, and sometimes is considerably defi-
cient. The fact is that the amount of oxygen in the upper water of
the lake is the resultant of very numerous and variable forces. The
lake may or may not be absorbing oxygen from the air. If saturated,
it will give off oxygen to the air as the water warms, or will take it in
as it cools. Both of these processes go on somewhat slowly, and the
oxygen is not given off or absorbed as rapidly as the water warms or
cools. Into the water the green plants are discharging oxygen during
the hours when the light is sufficiently strong; from the water both
plants and animals are taking oxygen to assist their vital operations;
and the process of decomposition is aiding to exhaust the stock of
oxygen. Thus the amount present at any given moment will depend
on the relative value of these forces; some of them positive; others
negative; and all varying not only from day to day, but from hour to
hour. Nor do these factors exhaust the list. The wind has something
to do here ; during a calm period the oxygen content of the upper water
may differ from that of a stormy period. The vital condition of the
successive crops of alga?, as they come and go, may determine for the
time the predominance of the manufacture of starch, with accompany-
ing liberation of oxygen, or decomposition, with partial exhaustion of
oxygen. Thus the ability of the green plant to set free oxygen into
the upper water may be of great value in maintaining the supply of
the lake.
This power may be far more important in the lower water. If the
transparency of the water and the thickness of the warm layer are such
that a good deal of light can penetrate to the colder water, alga? will be
able to manufacture starch in the upper part of this stratum. Thus in
the region which is practically cut off from access to the atmosphere,
large amounts of oxygen maj r be set free. There may be enough not
only to serve the ordinary needs of the stratum, but the water may be
saturated or even oversaturated with the gas. To illustrate this point
I give a diagram (Fig. 1) showing the vertical distribution of oxygen
in Elkhart Lake, "Wisconsin. This figure shows clearly the position
and amount of the manufactured oxygen, and the addition which it
makes to the thickness of that part of the lake that has abundance of
oxygen. Lakes whose habitable portion would otherwise be only twelve
to twenty feet in thickness may have this depth nearly or quite doubled
by the presence of the manufactured oxygen. The plants in this
undisturbed cooler water find a peculiarly favorable situation for
growth. They obtain for their food the products of decomposition,
