348 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
carbon dioxide through the intermedium of the water. This readily
absorbs large quantities of the gas. But the percentage existing in the
air is so small, the absorbing surface of the lake is so restricted, and
the means of transport are so poor that the lake is quite unable to take
from the air enough carbon dioxide to maintain a vigorous growth of
plants. The lake is forced to depend on its own resources to a large
degree for this plant food. Fortunately, these resources are consid-
erable. Great amounts of carbon dioxide are manufactured in the lake
and these may be utilized as food by the green plants. Thus there is
kept up in the lake a sort of internal circulation of carbon dioxide;
the stock of the circulating medium being increased and replenished
by additions from outside. The activities of animals and the processes
of decomposition liberate the gas, which is taken up and manufactured
by the plants into organic substances ; and these in turn serve as food
and as material for new decomposition; while from the air the water
may be absorbing new supplies of carbon dioxide to make good the
losses of this process. Thus under normal conditions, the lake would
return little or no carbon dioxide to the atmosphere, but would utilize
within itself all that it manufactured or absorbed, at least until the
plant life became so abundant as to be limited by other causes than
that of food supply.
If this were all, the story would be quite simple and quite to the
advantage of the lake. But it is by no means all the story; on the
other hand, so far from being forced to solve problems associated with
an oversupply of carbon dioxide, the lake has to encounter many diffi-
culties in securing an adequate supply of that gas, and is able to meet
them only very partially and imperfectly. Since the plants are able to
utilize carbon dioxide in the manufacture of starch only during the
hours of sunlight, considerable quantities may escape into the atmos-
phere during the night. But this is not the only disadvantage as
regards the supply of carbon dioxide, with which the plants of the
upper water have to contend. By no means all, or even the greater
part of the organic matter which they manufacture decomposes in the
upper, warmer stratum of the lake. As the plants and animals die,
they sink into the lower and cooler water before any great part of the
decomposition has been completed. The carbon dioxide which is there
produced is discharged into this bottom water. It can not be used
there by plants on account of lack of light. The same imperfections
of transportation which prevent the access of oxygen to the cooler water
in summer make it impossible to transport the carbon dioxide produced
there to the upper stratum, where it can be utilized. In certain lakes,
indeed, a small portion of this gas may be used in the cooler water, as
I indicated above, but, in general, the upper water, as a result of this
process, is growing poorer during the summer in the materials on
