35o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
contain a considerable amount of these bicarbonates and soft- water
lakes have little or none. In hard-water lakes it is found that during
the growing season, when algse are active, the upper water contains no
free carbon dioxide, but is, on the contrary, alkaline, when tested with
phenophthalein as an indicator. This alkalinity conies from the fact
that one molecule of carbon dioxide has been withdrawn from part of
the bicarbonates, converting them into carbonates. It appears that the
algae are able to effect this reduction and that they can obtain their
supply of carbon from the carbon dioxide of the bicarbonates dissolved
in the water. This fact introduces a wholly new feature into the story
of the food supply of the plants. It provides a chemical carrier for
the carbon dioxide which may carry this gas somewhat as the hemo-
globin carries oxygen in the blood. All carbon dioxide set free in this
alkaline water as the result of decomposition or other processes, will be
taken up immediately by the carbonates. Thus if plants are not at
hand to utilize the carbon dioxide at once, it is not lost but kept until
it is needed. So in the night, the lake is able to retain all the carbon
dioxide set free and which the plants do not use at that time.
Such alkaline water has also a great advantage in absorbing carbon
dioxide from the air. It presents for absorption, not merely the rela-
tively weak and slow powers of the water for dissolving the gas, but the
eager and vigorous powers of chemical affinity. And until these alka-
line carbonates are saturated, no free carbon dioxide will appear in the
water to diminish the rapidity of absorption from the air. Thus hard-
water lakes have an advantage over soft-water lakes in the matter of
securing plant food, and in fact the population of soft-water lakes
is smaller than that of lakes of the other type.
It is worth while to devote a few words to gaseous products of
decomposition other than carbon dioxide. So long as the bottom water
contains an abundance of oxygen no other gas than carbon dioxide is
produced in appreciable quantities. But as the oxygen becomes
greatly reduced or wholly disappears, decomposition continues in new
forms and under these conditions of anaerobic fermentation other gases
may be developed in considerable amounts. It is apparently true that
earbon monoxide may be present in the lower water of lakes in appre-
ciable quantity, and it is certain that marsh gas is developed in large
volumes in lakes where the amount of fermentable material is large
and where the oxygen disappears from the lower water early in the
season. These gases first appear near the bottom, where decomposition
is going on most actively and where the oxygen first disappears. In
many lakes they are found only in small quantities and close to the
bottom, but in proportion as the amount of decomposable matter in-
creases, they are found at considerable distances from the bottom, and
in certain lakes all of the water below the thermocline may contain
