THE RESPIRATION OF AN INLAND LAKE 351
marsh gas in appreciable quantities, often becoming very great as the
bottom is approached. These gases do not seem to have any very
definite unfavorable effect on the life of the lake. Diffusion is so slow
that they do not reach the upper water and experiments indicate that
their presence in the lower water adds little, or nothing, to the unfavor-
able conditions brought about by the absence of oxygen.
It should be noted that these processes involve a loss of material
for plant food. Carbon dioxide, produced by aerobic decomposition,
is available for plant food in the lake, or, if not there, then elsewhere
as part of the general stock of that gas in the atmosphere. But marsh
gas has no such relation to plants and all substances converted into it
are lost to the cycle of life. Its production means just so much reduc-
tion of the food supply of the lake. The same may be said of the
carbonized, peat-like substances produced from the partial decomposi-
tion of plants under water. So long as these remain under water, they
are practically withdrawn from the food supply. Against all these
influences which tend to diminish the stock of food for its inhabitants,
the lake is contending, but with imperfect means and only partial
success.
I have thus hastily and imperfectly sketched the respiration of an
inland lake, not because the story is known with any fullness or com-
pleteness, but partly because our present knowledge, imperfect though
it is, shows that the subject is one of great scientific interest; partly
also because many practical hints regarding the utilization of lakes in
fish culture can come from our knowledge of respiratory conditions.
We are accustomed to think of the food-producing capacity of the lake
as the factor which determines the kind and amount of the crop of
fish which it can produce. It is a somewhat new thought to me, and
I have no doubt that it is equally new to many of you, that the respira-
tory capacity of the lake may have even greater influence in this matter
than has the capacity for the production of food. Yet it is plain that
such is the case and that a knowledge of the respiratory conditions of
the lakes in which our fish are to be planted is necessary if the best
results are to be reached.
