352 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
THE UTILIZATION OF AUXILIARY ENTOMOPHAGOUS
INSECTS IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST INSECTS
INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 1
By Professor PAUL MARSHAL
THE NATIONAL AGRONOMICAL INSTITUTE, PARIS
I. The Role of Entomophagous Insects in Nature
IF phytophagous insects could develop and multiply without hin-
drance in proportion to their natural reproductive power, in a
short time they would cause all species of terrestrial vegetation to
disappear. The multiplication of these destructive forms is very
fortunately kept within limits compatible with the existence of plants
by the presence of other insects, predatory or parasitic, which places a
check on their propagation.
The capacity for prolification of entomophagous insects is itself
very considerable : their eggs may often be counted by hundreds or
even by thousands; moreover, as several of the species of parasites
often attack a single species of plant-feeding insect, it is certain that
the latter would in its turn become very rapidly annihilated if the
parasites were not themselves held in check by hyperparasites, and if
they were not repressed in their spread by all the obstacles that render
their struggle for existence more difficult than can be imagined.
The role of entomophagous insects is of the first importance, whether
from the point of view of the economy of nature or from the point of
view of utility to man.
Some, like the Carabida? and Coccinellidse, are predatory. They
destroy for food the insects which they attack, and the benefit derived
from their action is immediate.
The others, which are represented both by the hymenopterous
and dipterous parasites, lay their eggs in the interior of developing
insects, or in their near neighborhood, and the larvae which hatch from
these eggs nourish themselves at the expense of their hosts, accomplish-
ing their death at a more or less advanced stage of their evolution. In
this case the benefit brought about is sometimes immediate, as in
certain species of minute Hymenoptera (Teleas, T etrastickiis , etc.)
which lay their eggs in the interior of eggs of other insects and
1 Translated from " The Annals of the National Agronomical Institute "
(Superior School of Agriculture), Second Series, Vol. VI, Part II, Paris,
1907, pp. 281-354.
