THE GRAYLING 25
the house cut apart and spread until the room was large enough for
the carpet. How Tagish Charley became one of the generous rich,
beloved of all men, and how Siwash George deserted the woman who
made his fortune for a San Francisco actress, all this, with the
spectacular career of Swiftwater Bill, are known to every one in touch
with the gossip of the smart set of Caribou Crossing, Seattle, and San
Francisco.
When Ogilvie told all this in Juneau, the whole town re-
sponded. Juneau itself lay on the very frontier of adventure, and
here was something newer and greater and only two thousand miles
or so beyond.
So the gamblers and gold seekers, the clerks and lawyers resigned
their positions, threw up their jobs, in some way or another made their
way to the head of navigation, Dyea or Skagway, and then struck the
White Pass Trail. The Bright Eyes Opera Company broke its en-
gagement at Juneau and men and women started over the mountains
to Bonanza Creek. And after them came a most wonderful migration
— one of those movements which, if anything could, lend " to the
sober twilight of the present, the color of romance."
All the way southward, the word went from Juneau. Cigarette
young men, who had never done a man's day's work-in their lives,
crowded the smoking rooms in the Pullman cars, and pampered dogs
— St. Bernard, Great Dane, Mastiff, brought up in luxury, and bought
or stolen to do the work of a husky or Siberian wolf dog — rode in the
baggage cars. Along with the rest came young women and old women,
dainty Mercedes, silly, pretty and whimsical, demanding the impos-
sible, elderly graduates of cheap boarding houses with iron hand and
iron jaw, capable of making some sort of a way anywhere. All were
loaded down with clothing and provisions needed for an Arctic
winter. Most knew nothing of hardships, nothing of dogs, nothing
of trails over glacial mountains and through endless chains of rock-
bound lakes, each hidden in its - cleft of rocks. They knew nothing of
boats or rafts, or the breaking up of the ice, nothing of gold or men
or Alaska. And the dogs were just as ignorant, and had not even
seen a map of Alaska, and did not know beforehand that they were
going there.
From Skagway- — a wild bedlam of incongruous elements, with its
hero mayor, chief of the Vigilantes — the trail goes up the boisterous
river, through the fir woods, past the mouth of glaciers, into a great
amphitheater like that at the foot of the Spltigen Pass, then in long
zigzags and windings past reckless splashing waterfalls and unbridged
chasms to the foot of the moss-covered White Pass. Then up the pass
to its gusty Summit Lake and the long ravine-like chain of lakes at
the head of the Yukon which may keep one guessing for miles as to the
way past or around them.
