INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 355
cloud of parasites which came out during the months of April and
May.
If one would take the trouble to observe, one could multiply similar
examples without difficulty.
It must be remarked that in the case of which we have just spoken,
the injurious species are very injurious only from time to time in a
rather periodical manner. Several years will occur in a given region
when they are not mentioned. Then, under the influences of certain
conditions, they multiply for two or three years in an excessive way,
giving rise to terrible invasions, until the parasites favored by this
great development of the host species become themselves sufficiently
multiplied to bring about the retrocession. This repressive and regu-
lating action of the parasite, having for its object the limiting of the
increasing abundance of the plant-feeding species, moves then in a
successive periodical manner, which recalls a little the action of the
siphon of an intermittent fountain. This type of injurious species,
with great invasions more or less separated and presenting a periodical
character, is met with especially with those species which attack plants
cultivated upon a very large scale, and corrects an unstable equilibrium
which man himself has provoked by the establishment of great homo-
geneous cultures. Exception, however, should be made in regard to
certain migratory and omnivorous species, such as the grasshoppers
and crickets, whose invasions seem to exist during all time and without
any correlation with cultural conditions.
In other cases which more nearly approach the general and primi-
tive law of nature, the injurious species maintains always about the
same rank, and the fluctuations which it presents are only of secondary
importance. The parasites act as a moderating check to the con-
tinued increase, and prevent the injurious species from multiplying in
an excessive manner. They are themselves present in almost constant
number from one year to the other. Their role is not only to bring
back an injurious species to a small number of indidivuals when it has
passed the mean, but to hold it constantly at a numerical point much
below that which it would reach without their presence. 3
It is very certain, however, that in nature all the intermediate
stages between these two types just mentioned are to be found, and
these two types themselves, as we admit, are more theoretical than real.
3 The condition by which the fraction of parasitized insects remains constant
£ ft 1
from year to year is represented by the equation : — — ; c represent-
b a
ing the number of eggs laid by an individual of the parasitic species, 6 the
number of eggs laid by an individual of the plant-feeding species, and \/a the
proportion of parasitized insects. (Bellevoye & Laurent, loc. cit.) In other
terms, if a quarter of the insects are parasitized, it would be necessary, in order
that this proportion should remain constant from year to year, that the fe-
cundity of the parasite should be to that of the host as three is to four.
