358 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
There exists an intimate relation between all these conditions, and
this relation binds in a particularly striking manner the plant-feeding
insect and parasites which live at the expense of the latter. The har-
mony which results from the mutual adaptation of these beings should
not be surprising, since it is the condition sine qua non of the existence
of the species. From the reciprocal actions which they exercise upon
one another, results the equilibrium in which they are maintained.
II. Perturbations brought by Man in the Natural
Equilibrium
The intervention of man in disturbing the laws of nature is capable
of breaking this natural equilibrium, and of bringing about in the
existing order a perturbation from which he is perhaps the first sufferer
of serious consequence. This rupture can be occasioned by two prin-
cipal causes: (1) by new conditions created for insects by cultures;
(2) by the accidental carriage of certain species from one country to
another.
1. Perturbations provoked by New Conditions created by Cultures;
Methods bringing about the reestablish/merit of the
Equilibrium
Man, in planting over a vast extent of country certain plants to the
exclusion of others, offers to the insects which live at the expense of
these plants conditions eminently favorable to their excessive multi-
plication; for he diminishes in their favor the difficulties of their
struggle for existence and often favors their alimentary specialization,
while the food-plant, in the conditions which it finds itself, is not
always capable of reacting by defensive adaptations of sufficient com-
pensating value.
In this case, man, in order to regain the equilibrium favorable to
his own interests, should have recourse to a regular rotation of crops,
destined to interrupt the life cycle of the injurious species, and to all
methods possible to increase the resistance of the plant. But also the
beneficial insects whose useful role is incomparable should be watched.
It is necessary to aid or at least to start their work ; and, finally, in any
circumstances it is necessary to know them in order to protect them in
a judicious way, and above all not to destroy them by inopportune cul-
tural practises.
Protection of Beneficial Insects. — Apropos to the Hessian fly, we
may enter into. " The retarded development of these parasitic larvae," says
Kiinckel, " enables the successive issuing of adult insects during several years,
and is evidently in close correlation with the appearance of the locusts; th«
latter, decimated, fly from their enemies to reproduce far away; the former
awaiting their return to insure the well-being of their progeny; thus is estab-
lished a regular balance between the multiplication of the locusts and that of
their egg-feeding parasites, which assures the perpetuity of both species."
