INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 359
have elsewhere insisted upon the fact that one of the measures most
often recommended — the destruction of the stubble remaining in the
field after the harvest — may have unfortunate consequences, for doing
this in a tardy manner one risks intervening at a moment when all
of the flies have emerged and have abandoned the stubble, exposing
to destruction only the parasites whose part would have been to stop
the invasion the following year.
Ivieffer has pointed out a remarkable analogous fact for a
Cecidomyiid, namely, Diplosis tritici, attacking not the stubble, but the
grains of wheat, and has shown that one of the measures which has
been advised — burning the debris after the threshing — has only an
injurious effect, for while it is true that this debris contains pupae of the
midges, it should be remembered that the healthy and nonparasitized
larvas of these flies transform in the ground, while those which remain
in the heads are, on the contrary, parasitized.
In the cases which we have just mentioned, the protection to be
accorded to the parasites consists solely in abstaining from inoppor-
tune measures capable of bringing about their destruction without any
advantage whatever. In other cases it is an active protection which
has been advised, and which comprises operations destined to insure
the survival of the parasites.
It is in this way, for example, that Decaux, struck by the multi-
tude of ichneumon flies, or Braconids, which came out of the buds of
apple attacked by Antliorwmus, advised, in place of immediately
burning these buds as was generally done, preserving them in boxes
covered with gauze, raising the latter from time to time during the
period of issuing of the parasties so as to permit them to escape. In
1880, he put this method into practise and collected in Picardy buds
reddened by the Antlwnomus from 800 apple trees, amounting to
5 hectoliters; and thus accomplished the destruction of more than
a million Anthonomi, and set at liberty about 250,000 parasites which
the following year were aids in the destruction of the weevils. The
orchards treated being isolated in the middle of cultivated fields, it
sufficed to repeat the same operation the following year in order to
stop all serious damage during ten years.
This plan started by Decaux has been perfected by Berlese (1902)
in order to protect the parasites of the Cochylis. This author recom-
mends the use of boxes with the cover pierced by a window, being also
covered by a metal plate perforated with holes 2 mm. in width. In
the autumn there is placed in the box nearly full-grown larva? with
the leaves necessary for pupating. In the springtime the parasites
will issue through the openings, while the moths perish in the box. 6
8 If it is desired to preserve the parasites for study, the perforated plate
is covered with a bell glass, in which the parasites accumulate without ever
reentering the dark box.
