INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 361
which they harbor, or the predaceous insects which destroy them.
This way of looking at the question is very exaggerated. It is only in
case where the parasites constitute restricted and very localized centers
of contamination that this idea can hold for these determined points,
admitting that it will still be possible to utilize such centers of propaga-
tion. In the great majority of cases, on the contrary, it must be said
that however useful parasites may be, the fear of destroying them ought
never to prevent the undertaking of all measures having for an end the
direct destruction of the injurious insect. Parasites act, in fact, only
at a more or less long maturity, and admitting that with an invasion of
caterpillars the majority or even all harbor in their interior larval para-
sites, they will none the less accomplish the greater part of their
depredations in a manner quite as complete as if they were not para-
sitized. Should we, then, allow them to devastate a field or orchard in
order that the parasites can, the following year, accomplish their
beneficent work? An intervention with destructive methods, far from
being dangerous, will permit us, on the contrary, always to obtain a
double result : first, it will immediately stop the damage and save in a
more or less complete manner the products of that year; and, second,
it is not likely in the great majority of cases that the caterpillars will
be more abundantly parasitized in that particular spot than in any other
portion of the country: and in destroying a certain number of non-
parasitized caterpillars, one will diminish for the whole region the
number of possible adults which would assure the generation of the
following year, and that without changing the existing proportion
between the parasites and the representatives of the injurious species.
The assertion that insectivorous birds can cause more harm than
good by attacking either the useful species or larvae parasitized by them,
does not appear to us well founded and seems to us to be refuted by
analogous arguments. In spite of the thesis formerly proposed by
Perris, and ably defended of recent days by Berlese and Severin, the
protection of insectivorous birds appears to us not at all as susceptible
of thwarting the beneficent action of useful insects.
Utilization of Indigenous Insects in the Fight against Indigenous
Injurious Species. — Aside from the intelligent protection which should
be given to beneficial insects and which, as we have just shown, can be
based only upon exact knowledge of their biology and the relations
which they have to other organized beings, can man assist in artificially
multiplying them, and making of them a forced subject to his will
which will serve him at will in the struggle against indigenous enemies
of cultivated plants — those which for centuries have devastated our
prairies, fields, orchards and forests?
The fungous parasites and microbes have already been brought into
our arsenal, from which we draw against the enemies of agriculture.
Can we bring in entomophagous insects in their turn ?
