362 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
While they habitually accompany injurious insects wherever they
are found, it may happen in a restricted region and an isolated
plantation that the beneficial forms are absent, and there will be
undoubtedly a benefit in introducing them. It often happens that
coniferous forests are ravaged by insects without any of their most
important enemies, such as Calosoma sycoplianta. Will it not be oppor-
tune in such a case to transport a lot of these beetles from the region
where they exist and acclimatize them in the devastated forests, where
they have not appeared naturally ?
Then also with sedentary insects, such as the scale insects, which
develop often in closely circumscribed localities, it will be possible, when
one chances to find a colony particularly invaded by parasites, to cut
off certain branches and carry them into other orchards infested by scale
insects and less favored from the point of view of the presence of
parasites.
In 1871-72, Le Baron, in the United States, made some experi-
ments in the transportation of the small hymenopterous parasite,
Aphelinus mytilaspidh, from one locality to another, attaching the
branches covered by parasitized scale insects to infested trees which
were found in a region where the Chalcidid parasite did not exist. At
the end of the year it was stated that the parasite had become domiciled
in that locality.
Johnson has noticed that another parasite very close to the preced-
ing, Aphelinus fuscicollis, may be extremely abundant in certain locali-
ties invaded by the San Jose scale, and be totally absent, on the con-
trary, in others, and he succeeded in propagating this insect by suspend-
ing upon a tree, at small distances, small baskets containing twigs
covered with parasitized scale insects.
In France, Decaux was the promoter of the same method, and in
1872 had the honor of attracting attention to the question, making
experiments in the transportation of parasites from one locality to
another. However justifiable such practises may be in certain deter-
mined cases, one can not deny that they have not the certainty which
they should have in order to be perfectly convincing. In fact, with an
indigenous species, it is very difficult to say that it is, at a given
moment, really absent from a locality. If it is absent to-day there is
a great chance that it will appear to-morrow, coming from a neighbor-
ing region. The experimenter will find himself also exposed to possible
criticism, not without reason, that he has attributed a result to his own
work when nature would have perfectly accomplished the same thing
without his intervention.
A more profound study of parasites and predaceous insects — of their
development, their migrations, their geographical distribution — will
show us without doubt and in a more precise way, the real value of the
consistent method to be used in transporting indigenous parasites, and
