INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 365
In 1894, at the opposite extremity of the United States, in the
State of Florida, a new invasion of Icerya purchasi was produced, and
the scale insect was introduced, this time under conditions which show
very well the risks attending such attempts to acclimatize useful insects
when they are made by incompetent persons. A nurseryman in Hills-
boro county, Florida, having heard of the extraordinary services ren-
dered by the Australian ladybird, being ignorant of the fact that this
insect will not attack other insects than Icerya, sent to California for
Novius cardinalis to fight the Aspidiotus, or other scale insects, feeding
upon their plants. The Novius was naturally sent with some Iceryas
which would serve as food for it on the journey, and they were all
placed together by the nurseryman upon the trees which he desired to
protect. No one knows what became of the Novius, but the Icerya
multiplied and was not slow in covering the trees upon which it had
been placed. Eadical measures were almost immediately taken ; all the
trees attacked were burned ; and for four years nothing was heard of the
insect. It was believed to have been entirely exterminated, but in 189.8
the presence of specimens of Icerya was discovered. The formidable
scale insect was found at this time at several points near the locality
where it had been first imported, and it had invaded one or two orange
groves. It was necessary to give up all hope of exterminating the
species, and an immediate effort was made to introduce Novius
cardinalis.
Mr. Gossard, state entomologist of Florida, and Mr. Al. Craw,
entomologist of the State Board of Horticulture of California, directed
the work. The Novius was at first colonized with success in two of the
infested orchards, and in 1900 had become sufficiently well established
to enable them to distribute it in good number in infested localities.
It seems to be certain that Icerya finds in Florida conditions less favor-
able to its development than in California. It has been stated that it
is attacked there by a fungous disease. In any event it can not be
doubted that with the assistance of Novius cardinalis, it will never play
in Florida the injurious role which it has played on the Pacific coast.
America is not the only country which has suffered from the intro-
duction of Icerya purchasi. This insect has been imported, or was
imported at almost the same time, into South Africa; and more recently
it has made its appearance in the Sandwich Islands, in Portugal and
in Italy. Novius cardinalis has in these cases been sent for, and the
success has been as complete as that obtained in California. 8 The his-
tory of these successive invasions and of the efforts which have been
made to combat them conveys useful instruction and is worthy of our
attention.
Icerya purchasi and Novius cardinalis at the Cape. — About 1890,
8 Novius cardinalis has also rendered great service against Icerya in New
Zealand.
