366 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Icerya purchasi having been at the Cape already for some years a great
subject of alarm, the Secretary of Agriculture, at Capetown, made an
effort to secure Novius cardinalis from Australia and from New
Zealand, but the correspondents to whom he wrote had not been able
to collect a sufficient number to make a sending, and a demand was
made upon the Department of Agriculture of the United States. Fol-
lowing the year 1891 an ample provision of larvae and pupa? was sent
from California to the Cape. But on account of the length of the
voyage, no living specimens arrived. At the end of the same year,
Mr. Thomas Low, member of the Legislative Assembly of the Cape of
Good Hope, went to the United States, charged by his government with
a mission connected with different agricultural questions, and notably
to secure the sending of Novius cardinalis. He procured three boxes
full of this insect, and left New York the twenty-third of December,
1891. One of these boxes was placed in the ice-box of the steamer. He
kept the two others in his cabin, feeding the Novius regularly during the
journey with Icerya. The three lots, including those preserved in the
ice-box, arrived in perfect condition, and on the twenty-ninth of Jan-
uary were placed in the hands of the Secretary of Agriculture of the
Cape.
The insects were then utilized in the following way : a small number
were placed in the open air upon an infested tree in the botanical gar-
den at Capetown; but the majority were used for rearings in captivity.
Some were placed upon an infested orange tree which was surrounded
by a great wire-gauze cage, while others taken to a different locality
were placed in a sort of glass house constructed around the orange
tree, and similar to those used in California for the same purpose.
The efforts destined to naturalize Novius cardinalis in South Africa
were reinforced about the end of 1892 by a new sending coming from
Australia, and sent by Koebele, who was then on a mission to that
country.
To-day the Novius is perfectly naturalized at the Cape. In some
spots which are particularly exposed to cold and where the winter is
very vigorous, they succumb to the low temperature, and the Ento-
mological Service is obliged to frequently renew the colonies. This,
however, is exceptional, and almost everywhere the Novius, perfectly
acclimatized, holds the Icerya in check so efficaciously that since several
years they have not worried about it.
Icerya wgyptiaca and Novius cardinalis, in Egypt. — About the same
period several attempts were made to introduce Novius cardinalis from
California into Egypt, not to fight Icerya purcliasi, but an allied spe-
cies, Icerya cegyptiaca, which is of unknown origin and for several
years had been found in the gardens of Alexandria, where it did great
damage to the oranges, lemons and figs. The first attempts failed on
account of the length of the voyage, but a new attempt made about the
