INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 367
beginning of the year 1892 was crowned with success. Six adult insects
and several of the larvae arrived in living condition at Alexandria.
They were set at liberty upon an orange tree infested with Icerya
cpgyptiaca, and accommodated themselves so well to this new food that
in a short time they had become so numerous as to cause an almost
complete disappearance of the Icerya, But later the Icerya again began
to increase. Happily, however, the Novius had not entirely died out
and it also recommenced to multiply, and, thanks to the successive see-
saw movements between the two species, the Icerya is held in check in a
definite way.
Icerya purchasi and Novius cardinalis in the Hawaiian Islands. — In
the Hawaiian Islands, the alarm provoked by the invasion of Icerya
purchasi was of short duration. The injurious insect was discovered
in 1889 in the suburbs of Honolulu, and multiplied there with rapidity.
In 1890, Novius cardinalis was in its turn introduced from California,
and a year afterwards the trouble was entirely stopped.
Icerya purchasi and Novius cardinalis in Portugal. — In 1897, the
presence of Icerya purchasi was discovered in the orange groves around
Lisbon, and the agricultural population began to be alarmed. This
insect had multiplied already for several years along the banks of the
Tagus Eiver, and it seemed that the first infested plants had been
brought from the Azores, where for a long time the Australian scale
insect had existed.
In 1897, almost all the gardens of Lisbon and its suburbs were
infested with Icerya, and the insect was known to occur in 32 locali-
ties. Before attempting the introduction of the natural enemies of
the Australian insect, they tried insecticides which were found insuf-
ficient to stop the scourge, but which, nevertheless, were of much
service from time to time, when it was deemed desirable to introduce
Novius cardinalis. Messrs. de Silva and Le Cocq were particularly
interested in this latter matter. In spite of a hostile press and the
opposition of the greater part of the administrative authorities, they
placed themselves in relations with Mr. Howard, the learned director
of the Bureau of Entomology, of the Department of Agriculture of
the United States, and he wrote to San Francisco, to the State Board
of Horticulture of California, and procured from Mr. Alex. Craw sixty
Novius cardinalis in the adult condition, as well as a certain number
of larvae in different stages of development.
As soon as they arrived in "Washington, in October, these insects
were placed in boxes with moss with an ample supply of Iceryas for
food, and were then sent on to Lisbon. The greater part of the Novius
perished on the voyage. Five only, coming from larvae which trans-
formed on the journey, arrived alive at their destination. On their
arrival they were placed in breeding cages at the Experimental Agri-
cultural Station of Lisbon, and were cared for in such a fortunate way
