368 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
that in the month of December they had already a numerous progeny.
On the twenty-second of November a second colony of Novius was
sent to Lisbon. The journey this time, on account of accidental delays,
was particularly long, and from San Francisco to Lisbon it lasted not
less than 44 days. Five females and one male still lived on arrival,
and these received the same care as the others, and the success was
such that in June, 1898, these six samples received in December, 1897,
had several thousands of descendants. On account of the danger to
which we are exposed of some time seeing the orange groves of the
south of France and the north of Africa invaded by Icerya, we
believe that it will be useful to give some details as to the methods used
in breeding, under the direction of M. Le Cocq. [See pp. 32-37,
Bulletin 18, New Series, U. S. Dept. Agriculture, Division of Ento-
mology.]
This method of work, which permits the handling of the Novius
without touching them, has been practised in Portugal on a large scale,
and thanks to this method, they were able to obtain an immense multi-
plication of the Australian ladybirds, but in order to facilitate the rear-
ing still more and to obtain as great a production as possible, they con-
structed a large wire-gauze cage after the model already used in the
United States.
In 1898, thirty-eight centers of dispersion, in Lisbon and in the
suburbs, had been thus established and were in active operation. In
the month of August, ninety colonies existed ; in September, four hun-
dred and eighty-seven, without counting the secondary colonies started
by the orchardists themselves, who had given one another specimens of
these precious insects.
The gardens and orchards, which were completely infested and
almost ruined, were cleaned of the scourge as if by enchantment. The
number of Icerya became practically negligible, and all treatment with
insecticides was from that time entirely superfluous. In a letter ad-
dressed at this time to Mr. Howard, Mr. Le Cocq wrote as follows :
The multiplication of the Novius which you sent in November and De-
cember has been astounding. . . . The result exceeds everything that we could
reasonably expect. The colonies of Novius are now being distributed profusely
every day to many farmers and gardeners who ask for them, and you must not
doubt that we recognize their just value, and appreciate the exceptional service
you have rendered to Portuguese agriculture and horticulture.
However happy these results, it should not be forgotten that the
Novius, in Portugal as well as elsewhere, has not been able to com-
pletely exterminate the Icerya. It keeps it from reaching the condi-
tion of a pest, but it is not able to prevent its dissemination or its slight
increase. Mr. Duarte d'Oliveira, of Oporto, to whose kindness I owe
certain interesting documents upon the history of Icerya in Portugal,
has written me that he has recently found several colonies of this insect
