37° POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Portugal by Mr. A. Le Cocq, director of agriculture, and by Mr. L. 0.
Howard, director of the Bureau of Entomology, of Washington. With
the assistance of the material thus obtained it was possible to make at
the entomological laboratory, at Portici, a methodical rearing of the
beetles. Different methods were employed and on June 8 the first
distribution of Novius, of both sexes, was made in the garden which
had been the center of infection, the Icerya having made rapid prog-
ress and the garden being again infested by legions of Icerya.
June 28 other similar distributions were made in the other neigh-
boring gardens.
The insects prospered marvelously, rapidly seeking the Iceryas
wherever they could find them. It should be remarked that Novius,
once acclimatized in a region, knows very well how to find trees at-
tacked by Iceryas, even when they are some distance away. Therefore
it is not absolutely necessary to distribute them to all points. In July
the results were already evident. One could hardly find patches of
Icerya which did not show the work of Novius, and at the end of the
month it was difficult to find adult Iceryas with which to continue its
breeding in the laboratory to afford food for Novius. By the end of
autumn there was only here and there a rare individual that had es-
caped the massacre. In 1902 the intensity of the invasion was entirely
minimized, but under the influence of the winds the area of dispersion
extended to about a kilometer. Very fortunately the Novius, which
had become very rare, reappeared. According to information very
obligingly sent to me by Mr. Leonardi, of the laboratory at Portici,
they still continue to-day to fill in a marvelous way the role which
devolves upon them, and their naturalization can be considered an
accomplished fact. This single fact alone indicates, without any need
of further evidence, that they have not exterminated the Iceryas.
If they have reduced the multiplication of the scale insect to the
point of rendering it practically negligible, it is none the less true that
the original infestation persists, and that the area of distribution of
the scale insect is slowly enlarging.
The Icerya is met with to-day not only at Portici, but in all the
little towns around Vesuvius, and all the gardens of Naples have it in
greater or less quantity. It is probable that the area will always
exist about the first locality. If the beneficent ladybird did not exist
by the side of the scale insect, the culture of oranges and l.emons would
be seriously interrupted, and in a few years throughout the whole Medi-
terranean region.
(To he concluded.)
