SOME NEW VIEW POINTS IN NUTRITION 395
enzymes is, however, in some measure peculiar, in that the fragments
are not wholly akin to those formed by hydrolysis with acids. When
a given protein is boiled with a dilute acid it is speedily broken down
and many of the fragments are identical with those produced by the
action of trypsin and erepsin. Thus tyrosine, leucine, arginine, lysine,
histidine, etc., appear in both cases, but the enzymes presumably leave
intact certain groups or combinations which acids break up or in some
way modify. As a result, it is found that the cleavage products formed
from casein, for example, by acids, will not take the place of casein,
or the products formed by trypsin proteolysis, in meeting the needs of
the body. On a diet of protein cleavage products formed in this man-
ner the animal steadily loses nitrogen; it is impossible to maintain a
condition of nitrogenous equilibrium, since for some reason the tissue
cells can not synthesize protein from the mixture of fragments pro-
duced by acids. We may conjecture that while in acid hydrolysis the
products are all simple amino-acids, in enzymolysis combinations of the
amino-acids, *. e., polypeptides, remain intact. There is experimental
evidence that such is actually the case, but equally good evidence seems
to show that the presence of polypeptides is not essential for the syn-
thesis of protein by the animal body. Thus, Henriques and Hansen
found that by treating the mixed products of pancreatic digestion with
phosphotungstic acid, which precipitates, so far as at present known,
all the basic bodies including polypeptides, the mixture of monoamino-
acids and possibly other nitrogenous substances contained in the filtrate
is apparently able when fed to keep animals in a condition of nitrogen
equilibrium. Further, the same investigators found, on treating the
nitrogenous products (free from biuret reaction) of pancreatic diges-
tion with strong alcohol, thereby separating the substances into two
portions, the alcohol-soluble part was quite able to maintain animals
in nitrogen equilibrium, i. e., it was equivalent in action to the original
protein, while the portion insoluble in alcohol was wholly ineffective.
It is thus apparent that all of the fragments resulting from proteolysis
are not needed for the synthesis of protein; there are apparently cer-
tain products that are not essential or not immediately necessary. On
the other hand, it is equally apparent that in the more profound break-
ing down of proteins by acids, something is done which constitutes a
physiological obstacle to utilization of the products in the synthesis of
protein by the animal body.
As stated by Leathes: 6
The great bulk of the substances set free in the hydrolysis of proteids by
enzymes and by acids are the same, and these substances enter into the com-
position of the proteids synthesized in the body in similar proportions to those
in which they occur in the proteids of the food. For the present, all we can
Problems in Animal Metabolism," 1906, p. 132.
