SOME NEW VIEW POINTS IN NUTRITION 397
per cent., is of unknown composition. It is not unaltered protein, of
that we can be sure, because all protein is destroyed in the hydrolysis.
It is presumably composed of small fragments of some kind, not yet
recognized by chemists. The next most noticeable feature is that no
two of these proteins are alike in their chemical make-up. Proteins
from the same grain are distinctly unlike ; gliadin of wheat contains no
lysine, while leucosin from the same kernel contains 2.75 per cent, of
this basic substance; gliadin likewise contains 37 per cent, of gluta-
minic acid, while leucosin has less than 7 per cent. ; gliadin shows 5.6
per cent, of leucine, and leucosin twice that amount; gliadin contains
no glycocoll, while leucosin has nearly 1 per cent, of this amino-acid.
Such marked differences in chemical composition speak plainly regard-
ing the individuality of proteins, even of those which are associated
in the same seed. Comparison of casein from cow's milk, as a typical
animal product, with any of the vegetable proteins, brings to light
equally strong points of difference, while in gelatin we see many of the
familiar amino-acids reduced to a minimum or entirely lacking. While
it is undoubtedly true that all proteins possess certain features in com-
mon, it is becoming strikingly manifest that they are more or less
divergent in chemical constitution. It has been the custom of physi-
ologists in the past to lay stress upon the general rule that proteins are
substances capable of meeting the physiological necessities of the body
and that their nitrogen exists in a form suited to the needs of the
organism. We have been accustomed to point to gelatin as the one
exception to the rule, and have classed it as a protein-like substance,
with as much nitrogen or even more than most proteins, but not truly
a protein, since it can not support life. I fancy, however, that many
true proteins may prove, when taken alone, unable to support life. As
a matter of fact, few isolated proteins have been tested in this respect.
Most of our feeding experiments have been made with mixtures of
proteins, and consequently a considerable variety of protein cleavage
products have been available for nutritive purposes. Take, as an illus-
tration, the zein of corn meal, which contains no tryptophane, glycocoll
nor lysine whatever, and only 1.5 per cent, of arginine and histidine
combined, but with 18.6 per cent, of leucine, to say nothing of other
peculiarities of chemical structure. Is it not reasonable to suppose
that such a protein, with so many of the ordinary chemical groups
missing or in greatly diminished quantity, will prove inadequate to
meet the demands of protein synthesis? Experiment with animals
has, indeed, shown this to be the case.
Data along these lines are bound to bring us more definite informa-
tion than we at present possess regarding the real merits of vege-
tarianism as contrasted with the use of animal foods. At present,
so-called vegetarianism rests mainly upon sentiment, reinforced by the
