398 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
belief that the quantitative needs of the body for protein food are more
satisfactorily met by a liberal addition of vegetable matter with its
larger calorific or heat-producing power and smaller nitrogen content.
In view, however, of what has been stated concerning the divergent
chemical structure of individual proteins, it is obvious that a new
standard of comparison is at hand, the suggestions it may offer to be
tested by appropriate feeding experiments on man and animals. Truly,
no chapter of nutrition is more deserving of careful consideration,
both from a scientific standpoint and from its bearing on the welfare
of the human race, than that which deals with the relative capabilities
of the various proteins of animal and vegetable origin.
In all that has been said we see emphasized the ability of the living
organism to break down its complex food material, as well as the cor-
responding material of its tissues and organs, into the simplest of
chemical fragments, coupled with the capacity to construct equally
complex tissue material out of the fragments so produced. Profound
and progressive hydrolysis, rather than simple oxidation, is the method
of decomposition, for many of the fragments at least are to be care-
fully conserved for future use. Oxygen, however, may play its part
in connection with the smaller groups, though even here enzyme inter-
mediation may still be found a ruling factor. Enzymes are to be
detected on all sides, both inside and outside the cells of the individual
tissues and organs, and it is through their agency that the varied proc-
esses of life are carried forward. The present realization of the pro-
found part played by enzymes in the reactions of the animal body is
completely transforming our views of life. The so-called vital activi-
ties of living tissue or its component cells are no longer shrouded in
that mystery which defies explanation, but we see within our reach
tangible means of unraveling the complexities of cellular activity.
One by one, the old views of living matter and organic structure are
giving place to truly scientific conceptions that admit of logical inter-
pretation. It is not long since, when chemists and physiologists alike
viewed with enthusiasm, akin to awe, the production of an organic
compound by synthesis in the laboratory. I well remember meeting
the renowned Wohler, then an old man, in one of my early visits to
Gottingen. Yet, Wohler was the first to make an organic substance
by synthesis. Up to his time, physiologists all believed that organic
substances, whether simple or complex, could be formed only through
the agency of a living organism. To-day, however, there is almost no
limit to our power of producing organic substances by purely chemical
synthesis. In the hands of the chemist, many of the reactions of living
matter may be duplicated and we are led to see that the living organism
makes use of processes which are merely a counterpart of those we have
learned to control in the laboratory.
