SOME NEW VIEW POINTS IN NUTRITION 399
When Buchner a few years ago, by simple pressure, forced from
the yeast cell a little limpid fluid and with this was able to induce the
same chemical reactions that the living yeast plant produces when
brought in contact with a sugar solution, it became clear that the typical
formation of alcohol and carbon dioxide is not the result of the life of
the yeast plant as formerly supposed, but is instead to be attributed to
something — a chemical substance — easily separable from the yeast
cell, and quite capable of causing the fermentation of sugar. This
reaction, which had for so long been looked upon as a typical illustration
of the power of life in inducing chemical change, is merely a simple
process of enzymolysis. The yeast plant, it is true, produces the en-
zyme; but the isolated ferment, once formed, is just as capable of
decomposing the sugar as the yeast plant itself. Indeed, the latter is
able to accomplish this chemical reaction, solely because of the pres-
ence of the enzyme or ferment, now called zymase. In all forms of
animal and vegetable tissue, intra- and extra-cellular enzymes abound;
enzymes of varied nature, endowed with the power of inducing chem-
ical reactions of diversified character. Those previously referred to
in the breaking down of protein material, both in digestion and in
autolysis, are typical of what may be found in many of the fluids and
in most of the tissues of living organisms. Enzymes which induce
hydrolytic cleavage are especially abundant; sugars, proteins and fats
all falling as prey to their power of breaking down the respective
molecules into smaller and simpler ones better fitted for distribution
or utilization. Further, enzymes of the amidase type, which have the
power of removing nitrogen from nitrogenous compounds, are equally
conspicuous in many phases of intermediary metabolism, especially
where changes of nuclein material are involved. In this reaction the
elements of water are apparently alone involved, but in some mysterious
fashion the enzyme causes a retention of oxygen while the hydrogen
passes off with one atom of nitrogen in the form of ammonia, thus
leading to the formation of a new substance with one more atom of
oxygen than the body from which it was formed and with one less atom
of nitrogen and of hydrogen. In this way, gradual oxidation results
without free oxygen being involved, while at the same time the content
of nitrogen is reduced. Again, there are enzymes separable from the
tissues of the body which bring about the destruction of uric acid, not,
however, by a process of annihilation, as might be implied by the above
statement, but by a method of cleavage in which new bodies less com-
plex are formed. Equally manifest is the action of enzymes which
bring about glycolysis, i. e., the destruction of sugar as in the blood;
while the separation of the amido group from amino-acids, the oxida-
tion of aromatic aldehydes, the splitting apart of a substance like
arginine into urea and ornithine, and a host of kindred reactions, all
