4oo POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
testify to the multitude of chemical changes that the enzymes of the
animal body are capable of producing.
Turn for a moment to the oxidation of an amino-acid such as
leucine, which is well known as a product of pancreatic digestion. As
this process is carried out in the body under the influence of specific
enzymes it is quite different from the ordinary conception of oxidation
or combustion. Instead of a complete destruction of the molecule,
there is first a removal of ammonia and of carbon dioxide, followed by
the formation of an aldehyde and an acid free from nitrogen, together
with acetone. The same kind of a reaction can be induced outside
the body by some mild form of oxidation, as with hydrogen peroxide,
as has recently been shown by Dakin. Here we have a series of reac-
tions, in which an amino-acid by successive oxidation yields a row of
non-nitrogenous substances such as are found in the intermediary
metabolism of the body, i. e., an aldehyde, an acid, and finally acetone,
nitrogen being removed from the molecule in the early stage of the
process. Such facts as these throw light upon the methods of oxida-
tion as they occur in the living organism, and they teach us to under-
stand that animal oxidation is quite different in character from the
old-time conception of the process. The amount or volume of oxygen
has no influence on the character of the change produced, but the
specific enzyme exercises a controlling power by means of which a
progressive, gradual change is induced leading to the formation of a
row of kindred substances of more or less physiological significance.
In other words, the oxygen so freely drawn into the lungs at every
inspiration is not directly responsible for the oxidations that take place
in the body. Animal oxidation is a roundabout process, in which food
and tissue material are first through the agency of numerous enzymes
subjected to a variety of changes whereby easily oxidizable decomposi-
tion products are formed, which may eventually succumb to the in-
fluence of oxygen ; even here, however, enzymes of the oxidase type may
prove to be the controlling factor in determining whether or not
oxidation results.
The " spontaneous combustion " of hay affords a striking example of the
activity which oxidation of the organic foodstuffs may attain when decomposi-
tion of the latter has previously set in. If hay is 1 stacked before it is thoroughly
dry, decomposition begins in the middle of the damp stack through the action
of organized or unorganized ferments. As all decomposition by ferments is
accompanied by hydration, drying is the best means of preventing it. Heat is
liberated by the decomposition, and proportionately with the rise in temperature
in the middle of the stack an ever-increasing accumulation of easily oxidizable
decomposition products is formed. If the hay be now disturbed so that there is
free access of atmospheric oxygen to the internal parts of the stack, the whole
blazes up and is consumed. 8
8 Quoted from Bunge: "Text-book of Physiological and Pathological Chem-
istry," 2d edition, 1902, p. 252.
