SOME NEW VIEW POINTS IN NUTRITION 401
In the animal body, however, there is no such accumulation of de-
composition products as is implied here, but the principle involved
may possibly admit of application.
It is generally understood that muscular energy comes primarily
from the decomposition or oxidation of non-nitrogenous material, either
of the food or of the tissues ; and in man we are accustomed to measure
the amount of muscular work performed by the amount of oxygen con-
sumed and the amount of carbon dioxide thrown out. In other words,
the potential energy of the foodstuffs is made available through oxida-
tion. This, however, is not always the case. Thus, in Ascaris, a round
worm inhabiting the intestine of some of the higher animals, we have
an animal that can live and show extremely active movements for days
at a time without any appreciable amount of oxygen. Carbon dioxide
is given off abundantly, however, thereby implying a cleavage or process
of disintegration in which energy is freely liberated for the necessi-
ties of the animal's machinery. It is quite apparent, however, that
oxidation is not the source of muscular energy in these organisms. It
may be claimed, and perhaps justly, that such an illustration as this
can not be applied legitimately to animals higher in the scale of life,
yet there is experimental evidence from various sources pointing in the
same direction. Thus, Stoklasa 10 has shown that organs from the
higher animals, notably the lungs, liver, pancreas and muscle, yield on
pressure fluids, from which by precipitation with alcohol and ether
enzymes can be separated, having the power of producing in perfectly
sterile solutions of sugar — and with exclusion of micro-organisms —
alcoholic fermentation. The proportion of carbon dioxide and alcohol
formed under these conditions is the same as produced by yeast.
Eemembering that in alcoholic fermentation sugar is simply split
apart into alcohol and carbon dioxide, it is readily seen that the
liberation of a certain amount of energy is possible by simple cleavage
of the sugar molecule and without the intervention of oxygen. This
then is a form of anaerobic metabolism or respiration, possibly an-
alogous to that which occurs in Ascaris, where carbohydrates are
broken down and energy set free for the needs of the organism. Again,
Hermann years ago proved that a freshly excised muscle, from which
all free oxygen had been separated by exposure to a vacuum, when
placed in an oxygen-free medium could be made to work and give off
carbon dioxide. Other data of a similar nature might be presented
showing quite conclusively the power of animal tissues to carry on
various decompositions of complex organic matter with an output of
carbon dioxide and with consequent liberation of energy where free
oxygen is entirely wanting. These are facts, however, well known to
physiologists, but they serve to emphasize the validity of the present
10 Zentralblatt fiir Physiologie, Band 17, p. 465.
vox,, lxxii. — 26.
