4Q2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
point of view, viz., that the processes of animal metabolism are peculiar
and are by no means always concomitant with ordinary oxidation.
Outside the animal body, the customary components of our daily food,
the proteins, fats and carbohydrates, are not affected by oxygen even at
the body temperature or by long exposure to the gas. Catalytic action
is a necessary prelude to their oxidation, and it is the smaller molecules
resulting from the action of enzymes working through catalysis that
are mainly burned up or broken down with liberation of their contained
energy.
The processes of nutrition are truly complicated, and we can readily
conjecture that their harmonious working is dependent in large measure
upon the integrity of many closely related operations. Enzymes must
be elaborated in due proportions, both in digestive secretions and in
tissue cells; proper conditions for enzymolysis must prevail at the
places where the reactions take place, since enzymes are extremely
sensitive to their environment and fail to work unless all the require-
ments are fully met; proper conditions of circulation of blood and
lymph must be maintained, in order to supply fresh pabulum and to
prevent undue accumulation of the products of enzymolysis. In short,
there are a multitude of accessory reactions to be preserved in their
proper sequence and normal rhythm if perversions of nutrition are to
be avoided. Many a substance known to have a deleterious effect upon
nutrition does so in virtue of its action upon some one or more enzymes
with which it may be brought in contact in the body. Take, for
example, the well-known influence of alcohol as a factor in the causa-
tion of gout. In this disease, there is an increased amount of uric
acid in the system, due in part to an inhibition of its oxidation and
consequent destruction. When alcoholic fluids are taken, together with
an excess of meat or kindred animal foods, the kidneys at once excrete
increased amounts of uric acid, in harmony with the increased content
in the blood. It is a well-known fact that alcohol interferes with the
oxidative processes in the liver. It is equally well known to-day that
the liver and other organs contain an enzyme, or more specifically an
oxidase, which has the power of oxidizing uric acid to urea and other
products. After the ingestion of alcohol and animal foods rich in
uric acid precursors, the notable increase of uric acid in the blood and
urine is considered as due to the inhibitory action of alcohol on this
oxidase, which under normal conditions causes more or less destruc-
tion of uric acid. The failure of the enzyme to accomplish its ordinary
duty naturally results in an accumulation of uric acid in the system,
although the kidneys plainly endeavor to meet the new conditions by
increased elimination. Hence, we see that the predisposition to the
development of gout caused by the ingestion of a high protein diet
reinforced by alcohol is to be explained in part at least by the direct
