4o6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
THE UTILIZATION OF AUXILIARY ENTOMOPHAGOUS
INSECTS IN THE STRUGGLE AGAINST INSECTS
INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE
II
By Professor PAUL MARCHAL
THE NATIONAL AGRONOMICAL INSTITUTE, PARIS
Generalization of this Method. Different Applications
THE striking success brought about in the struggle against Icerya
by the use of Novius cardinalis gave rise to great enthusiasm in
favor of the method of fighting injurious insects by their parasites.
First in California, then in Australia and the Hawaiian Islands,
under the auspices of Alex. Craw and his adepts, the application of
this method became popular and enjoyed extreme favor. From the
facts just given, they generalized to excess and imagined that in col-
lecting beneficial insects and naturalizing them in the country where
they proposed to use them, they would be able to check completely the
plagues of agriculture.
Fight against the Fruit Fly. Compere's Mission. — No example
appears to us to show better the belief inspired by this new method, the
exaggerated hopes to which it gives birth, and the zeal with which it
fills its promoters, than the incredible Odyssey around the world of
Mr. Compere, charged at the beginning of 1903 by the government of
West Australia with a mission having for its end the search for the
home of the fruit fly (Ceratitis capitata), and of finding the parasites
which in its original home should limit its propagation. This fly,
which is a great plague to fruit culture in South Africa, and which
has also invaded western Australia, has also for us an interest, since it
is abundant in all the Mediterranean regions where it is particularly
injurious to oranges in Algeria and Tunis, and which several years
ago even made its appearance in the suburbs of Paris, where it attacks
peaches and apricots. The Ceratitis has for a long time existed in
Mediterranean countries, and it is from this region that it was prob-
ably transported to the Cape of Good Hope and to Australia.
It would seem, then, natural to direct one's observations first to
this locality. Nevertheless, the damage accomplished by this insect in
the Mediterranean region appears to be too large to warrant the con-
clusion that this is its original home. Spain having received the
famous fly from one of its colonies, one naturally thinks of the Philip-
