INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 40 7
pines; and these islands not being very far from Australia, Compere
started then for that archipelago. He only passed through there, and
then visited China and Japan without meeting the Ceratitis. From
Japan he went to the United States, where the fly in question does not
exist, but where in the collections and the laboratories he thought to
gain facts which should throw some light upon the problem of its
origin. From there he went to Spain, and there tried to learn from
what region this country received the fruit fly. He was not able,
however, to get any knowledge of this kind, but a large number of fruit
growers told him that they remembered the time when oranges, peaches
and other fruit were not damaged by the larva of this insect. Was
that not sufficient to confirm his opinion that the Ceratitis was a fly
not indigenous to Spain?
After having traversed the south of France and Italy, he went back
again to Australia, and shortly afterwards departed for the Indies. In
the following month of September he landed at Bombay, traveling
through Hindostan, visiting the great markets as well as the orchards
and the principal fruit regions around Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and
Ceylon, studying the flies of the different species of fruits, as well as
the parasites living at their expense, wherever he could find them.
Then, always without having found the Ceratitis and finding nothing
which could serve him in the struggle against this insect, he returned
to Australia persuaded from certain indications he had collected in the
United States, that the original country of the celebrated dipterous
insect was Brazil. The seventh of January, 1904, he sailed, then, for
South America. Arrived in Brazil, he quickly ascertained that Cera-
titis capitata exists there in company with other flies injurious to fruit,
and at the same time he observed some Ichneumonids and some beetles
of the family Staphylinidse, which were carrying on a war against the
flies. If the Ceratitis causes, in general, only slight damage in Brazil,
it can be only owing to the presence of all these natural enemies which
hold it in check. And it, therefore, resulted that Brazil was the prom-
ised land for the fervent entomological traveler, the original home of
the Mediterranean fruit fly ! Arranging as ample a provision as pos-
sible for the parasites and predatory enemies of this insect, and ar-
ranging for their food for the time necessary for their journey, he then
returned to Australia.
On his arrival, the Staphylinids were set at liberty in one of the
gardens of Perth, where the conditions seemed particularly favorable
to insure their subsistence. The pupae parasitized by the Hymenoptera
to the number of about 200 were placed in breeding jars, and as the
parasites emerged they were liberated in the orchards most infested
by the fruit fly.
If we have told with some details this story of the journey around
