4 o8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the world of a practitioner, launched by his government into the search
for the parasites of a fly, it is to show the vogue which the use of bene-
ficial insects in the struggle against injurious insects enjoys in certain
countries.
What will be the result of this experience? It is premature to
express an opinion on the subject. The time necessary for the definite
acclimatization of a parasite, and above all for it to multiply sufficiently
to restrain the insect which it is its mission to attack, must be extremely
variable, according to the species and also according to the extent of
spread of the plague. It is only necessary for some months to elapse
in the case of Novius cardinalis, but years may be necessary for such
parasites as the Ichneumonids.
Utilization of Beneficial Insects in the Hawaiian Islands. — Journeys
of Koebele. — The method of which we are speaking has nowhere been
applied in a more extensive way than in Hawaii. These islands, ever
fertile, present, as is well known, a climate extremely favorable for
large number of tropical and subtropical crops. At the beginning
of the American colonization, the only plants of economic importance
were yams and cocoanuts, but since that time enormous numbers of
useful plants, coming from all parts of the world, have been acclimat-
ized in this rich country, and with them also have unfortunately been
imported a large number of their natural enemies, among them, and
the most important, scale insects and plant lice. It has been stated
that the Hawaiian Islands are the paradise of these insects, since they
are represented by numerous species coming from all parts of the world,
which prosper there and flourish.
After having seen, in 1890, their orange and lemon trees relieved
from Icerya by Novius cardinalis, the planters directed their efforts to
this method in order to combat other agricultural plagues, and par-
ticularly the enemies of coffee and sugar cane.
They, therefore, gave Mr. Albert Koebele a commission to under-
take this work. This entomologist, celebrated for his discovery of
Novius cardinalis, and already employed at the same time by the State
Board of Horticulture of California upon a similar mission, commenced
by sending from California the Coccinellids which seemed most de-
sirable for Hawaii, notably : Hyperaspis undulata Say, Scymnus debilis
Lee, Chilocorus bivulnerus Muls., Rhizobius ventralis Er., and R.
Iophanto3 Blaisd. The two latter became naturalized and constituted
a useful resource for the country.
In 1893 he visited the islands and left immediately for Australia.
From 1894 to 1896 he journeyed through Australia, China, Ceylon
and Japan, and made during this journey numerous sendings of this
insect to Hawaii and California. Among the best of these must be
mentioned, in the first place, Cryptolo3mus montrouzieri Muls., orig-
