INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 409
inally from Australia, where it had rendered inestimable service in
destroying mealy-bugs {Dactylopius, Eriococcus, etc.), and which, in-
troduced into the Hawaiian Islands, developed with a surprising rapid-
ity, comparable to that of Icerya in California. This ladybird is there
considered as one of the most important enemies of the scale insects of
the coffee plantations, and particularly Pulvinaria psidii, one of the
greatest enemies of this crop. Coccinella repanda is also naturalized
and is to-day one of the most common ladybirds, and most efficacious
among those which attack orange plant-lice and the plant-lice of
Hibiscus and sugar cane.
In 1899, Koebele left for Australia and the Fiji Islands and made
numerous sendings of ladybirds and different parasites to the Hawaiian
Islands, notably to combat Ceroplastes rub ens Mask.
At the end of 1902 the attention of planters was particularly di-
rected to an injurious leaf-hopper on the sugar cane, Perhinsiella sac-
charicida Kirk. It was introduced from Australia in about 1897 and
has since that time increased and spread and become a perfect plague
for this important crop. The attempts made to introduce living para-
sites in California at the expense of similar leaf-hoppers having given
unsatisfactory results, Koebele and Perkins left in the spring of 1904
for Australia, and during the course of that year sent to Hawaii a great
number of insects parasitic or predaceous, and among them a consid-
erable quantity of enemies of Perkinsiella.
Considering that the money appropriated by the government was
insufficient, the Hawaiian Sugar Planters' Association did not hesitate
to advance important sums in order to further the study of the question,
and created itself a section of entomology in its experimental station,
and has started a series of investigations exclusively upon the enemies
of sugar cane and their parasites. Some remarkable monographs are
now in course of publication.
The method of utilizing beneficial insects has been, during fifteen
years, used with such activity that the list of useful insects which have
been imported from one country to another, in order to combat the
plagues of agriculture, is already very long.
We have already spoken of some of them in giving a resume of
Koebele and Compere. Omitting those which up to the present time
have given only uncertain results, or which have not succeeded in nat-
uralizing themselves, we will limit ourselves to a mention of some inter-
esting species, either because they have fully justified the hopes founded
upon their introduction, or because they appear likely to soon play an
important role in the struggle against the enemies of agriculture.
Rhizooius in California. — Among the ladybirds must at once be
mentioned Rliizobius ventralis Erichs. This little ladybird, of a spe-
