4io POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
cially dark color, very useful in Australia for the destruction of various
scale insects, was introduced by Koebele into California while on his
second mission to Australia in 1893. It naturalized itself and plays
an important role in fighting the black scale of the olive. A hundred
thousand of these insects were distributed in different districts. In
different localities they multiplied in a prodigious way, and proved to
be particularly efficacious in the moist climate of the seashore. Mr.
Cooper, president of the State Board of Horticulture, had such confi-
dence in the efficacy of this RMzobius and other ladybirds that, yielding
to a perhaps exaggerated enthusiasm, he renounced for a time all other
intervention, and, in order to allow them to multiply at their ease, he
suspended all treatment. According to him, to spray trees upon which
there is Rhizobius is a crime and should be severely punished. 10
Attempts to Fight the San Jose Scale by Means of Ladybirds. —
The disasters caused by an insect commonly known as the San Jose
scale in the United States are well known. The damage done to the
fruit trees can only be compared in intensity to that done in our
country by the Phylloxera, and about 1898, the fear that it would be
introduced into Europe occasioned prohibitory, special legislation on
the part of European states. Since it was a scale insect, it was natural
to search for an enemy which would approximate the role of Novius
cardinalis, but no one knew the original home of the San Jose scale.
Australia was considered for some years as responsible. Finally,
they concluded that it might be Japan, and Mr. Marlatt, first assistant
of the Division of Entomology, Department of Agriculture, was sent
on a mission, in 1901-2, to the extreme orient to solve the question,
and he established in a positive manner the fact that the original home
of the San Jose scale was the north of China, where he found it occur-
ring upon small wild apple trees, in the mountainous country. There
he found, at the same time, with the scale insect a ladybird, Chilocorus
similis Eossi, which, both in the larval and adult stages, feeds on the
San Jose scale. This ladybird is an insect widely spread, not only in
China, but throughout all of Asia and the south of Europe. The San
Jose scale is, then, not its only food, but it can live at the expense of
different scale insects. Therefore, samples of this insect, coming from
China and offering the best possible conditions for adaptation to the
struggle against the San Jose scale, were sent to Washington, and all
precautions being taken, they were bred with great care in the Bureau
of Entomology, first in cages and afterwards in an experimental orchard.
They were thus produced in sufficient quantity, so that for several
} ears they could be sent to different States. The colonies which were
10 The attempt to acclimatize Rhizobius ventralis in India and Ceylon,
undertaken by Froggatt and Green, did not succeed, probably on account of
unfavorable climate.
