INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 411
established in the north did not succeed. But, on the other hand, col-
onies installed in the Georgia orchards and other southern states rapidly
spread, naturalized themselves, and still fill a useful role in attacking
the San Jose scale. However this may be, this importation can never
be compared to that of Novius cardinalis. Mr. Marlatt himself states
that this insect does not seem to have found in America, up to the
present time at least, conditions as favorable to its development as in
its native country. Moreover, the time when it was introduced coin-
cided with the period of employment especially of the lime-sulfur-salt
wash, and obviously the use of such an efficacious remedy should not
be interrupted to allow the ladybird to spread.
Scutellista cyanea. — The success gained by beneficial parasites,
properly speaking, is at present rare and less startling than those which
the predaceous insects, and particularly ladybirds, have brought about.
An especial rank, however, should be given to a Hymenopterous parasite
of the family Chalcididae, Scutellista cyanea Motsch., which is among
the most useful of the American importations. It was first described
from Ceylon, where it was found attacking parasites of the coffee scale.
Then it was found again by Berlese in Italy, where it attacked the wax
scale of oranges and other plants.
Howard, with the help of Berlese, tried in 1898 to introduce it into
Florida and Louisiana, to combat the wax scale, injurious in that part
of the country. This first attempt at acclimatization failed. In the
meantime, Lounsbury, State Entomologist at the Cape of Good Hope,
drew attention to this parasite as one of the most efficacious enemies of
the black scale of the olive. The olive scale is not abundant enough
at the Cape to be considered as injurious, and the damage which it
does is always less than in America and particularly in California. On
this account, and considering Scutellista to be the cause, the State Board
of Horticulture of California, always looking for new assistance of
this kind, tried to get this parasite. In 1900-01, branches carrying
parasitized black scale were sent from the Cape to California. Some
parasites were obtained by breeding from these different sendings, but
their number was not sufficient to undertake a rearing in the large
cage constructed around the tree infested by scales, but, in 1902, numer-
ous colonies were sent into all the districts of the State of California
where the black scale was injurious. Since 1903, numerous orchards
have been found which have been practically cleaned of the black scale
by this parasite. It may be affirmed that this introduction is one of the
most fortunate ones for fruit growers in California. 11
The Struggle in America, by means of Parasites, against the Gipsy
11 The acclimatization of this insect appears also to have been brought about
in Australia, where it was introduced in 1904, and in Hawaii, where it was
imported in 1905. Mr. Lafont has lately announced the presence of this insect
in France, where he considers it a very efficacious parasite of the black scale.
