INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 417
rational to believe, on the contrary, that at the end of a longer or
shorter period there will be brought about an accommodation between
the plants and their enemies, analogous to that which is produced
between animals and bacterial, trypanosome or piroplasmic diseases. It
is well demonstrated that certain insects like the scale insects inoculate
in the sap certain toxic products, and it happens that varieties of
plants that have never been attacked before by these insects are at first
peculiarly subject to their action, then at the end of a longer or shorter
time they begin to acquire a relative immunity — an immunity ac-
quired in a way quite different from the formation of anti-toxins may
be conceived, that is to say, an immunity attributable to many defensive
adaptations of the plant, consisting in modifications of the plant tissue
and tending either to render the attack of the insect more difficult, or
to diminish the quantity of food which it can get, or again to render
the lesions which it produces less dangerous.
If, for example, the San Jose scale is less injurious in its native
country, can it be said that this is the case only because of the para-
sites which hold it in check ? Are there not serious reasons for admit-
ting that the trees of this country may be formed of varieties adapted
to this insect, capable of resisting it?
Finally, we should also take into consideration the fact that if, dur-
ing the first years following its introduction, an injurious species of
exotic origin can multiply freely without any parasite to interrupt its
multiplication, there often comes a time sooner or later when the
parasites of a country living at the expense of the indigenous forms
most nearly related to the exotic species progressively adapt themselves
to the latter and end in limiting its propagation. This cause, added
to the progressive adaptation of plants, appears to be bringing about the
actual diminution of the virulence of the San Jose scale in America.
It results from what precedes that in the problem with which we
are occupying ourselves the factors are multiple, and that it will be a
great mistake to consider one or the other and not all.
If, because of the too absolute manner in which it has been formu-
lated, the theory of the utilization of beneficial insects must surrender
somewhat, it is necessary also to point out the errors and the exaggera-
ions to which it has given rise in practise, for they give rise to
excessive hopes, provoke serious disillusions, and are a discredit to the
whole method.
In the first place, a grave fault resulting from an excessive con-
fidence in the action of parasites consists in advising the suppression
of insecticides in a region where it is desired to acclimatize the bene-
ficial species. In the great majority of cases, at least in regions where
insecticides are employed with success to hold a crop enemy in check,
the desire to acclimatize a beneficial species should not cause the gen-
VOL. LXXII. — 27.
