4i 8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
eral use of sprays to be stopped. The two methods are not incom-
patible, for in a given region it is very rare that you can regularly
spray all of the trees. This one, or others, will not be treated, and
the ladybirds and other useful insects will therefore have a free field
to carry on their beneficial work, and centers from which they can be
dispersed will be created.
One of the greatest dangers in introductions consists of the possi-
bility of introducing into a region an animal which considered as
useful in its original home, is capable of becoming absolutely injurious
in the new country into which it is introduced, on account of the con-
ditions of the environment which it encounters. The examples of the
sparrow imported from Europe into America and Australia, of the
mongoose introduced from the East Indies into the West Indies, of
the rabbit imported from Europe into Australia, are too well known to
be described. It has been stated that no danger of this sort exists in
such cases as these, since parasitic insects of other insects can live only
at the expense of these last, and it is the same with predaceous insects.
There is no doubt of this, but there exists another danger of a direct
character in the importation of the insects which are desired for
acclimatization, and that is the danger of importing at the same time
either injurious insects sent along as food, or hyperparasites which
can prevent the propagation of the useful insects and which becoming
acclimatized themselves, endanger even certain useful indigenous
species.
It is very easy to take the necessary precautions so that the insects
which serve as food during the journey should present no danger, and
it will suffice to make sure that they belong to a species existing already
in the region where they are to be acclimatized.
The history of the naturalization of Icerya purcliasi in Florida
shows us that the method of utilization of beneficial insects, practised
by incompetent people, may have sad consequences.
As to the danger from hyperparasites, while it is apparently not
so serious as the preceding, it is, on the other hand, much more diffi-
cult to avoid. Preliminary rearings are necessary before the bene-
ficial species are definitely set at liberty, and all precautions are
necessary after the issuing to separate the primary parasites from the
hyperparasites. It is for this reason that the application of the
method of the utilization of beneficial insects, in order to render all
the services which are expected of it, should be carried on indispensably
and exclusively by learned men, especially informed concerning insects
and their reciprocal and biological relations.
We have shown in this memoir about all that can be drawn from
the utilization of predatory and parasitic insects in the struggle against
enemies of crops. One conclusion may be drawn also from this study,
