INSECTS INJURIOUS TO AGRICULTURE 419
and that is that one can not count upon beneficial forms as a substitute
for the methods of destruction commonly used in applied entomology.
Their role does not consist of exterminating a species, but of main-
taining a natural equilibrium, or of reestablishing it when it has been
disturbed by human intervention. In such cases, their action can
make itself felt in a more or less prompt way. It may happen that,
immediately after having been imported into a country, they stop with
an extraordinary rapidity the plague which they have been brought
to combat. This was the case with Novius cardinalis, in California, and
in different countries. It was also the case for Crypotolamus mon~
trouzieri, which made very rapid spread in Hawaii. It must be stated,
nevertheless, that this is rather exceptional and that, in general, a
number of years are required — the number varying according to the
species and to the circumstances under which it is brought — before it
can be completely naturalized in a given country, and before, thanks
to its spread, it brings about a sufficient retardation of the multiplica-
tion of the plant-feeding species for which it is imported, to reduce it
from the condition of a scourge to that of a supportable species.
The services that parasites and predaceous species render are suffi-
ciently great so that there is no necessity for exaggerating them.
Far from lulling ourselves with illusions, we should keep on the
watch and foresee the dangers with which other injurious species
menace us, such as Icerya purchasi, which may any day invade Provence
or Algeria on plants imported from Portugal and Italy.
There is no doubt that, however great may be the efficaciousness of
a ladybird, like Novius cardinalis, it will be still better not to have the
enemy at all than to be obliged to fight it by the intervention of its
natural foe. We do not know that Novius cardinalis will with us
develop with the success which marked its spread in California, in
Portugal, and in Italy. We are ignorant whether the climatic influ-
ences or some parasite, recently adapted to this new strange host, will
not limit its propagation and diminish its beneficial action. Finally,
other plagues than Icerya menace us, and it is unfortunately certain
that not all of these may be mastered by the equivalent of Novius
cardinalis.
Confidence in the assistance which we can get occasionally from
parasites and predaceous insects should not make us lose all prudence
nor prevent us from seeking a guard against the perils which surround
us, in organizing at our large ports an inspection and disinfection
service like those which have been started at foreign ports, notably
Hamburg, and in a general way taking every measure possible to protect
our crops.
