420 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
OF THE SOIL OF THE EAETH
BY SPENCER TROTTER
SWARTHMOKE COLLEGE
ONCE upon a time — certainly more than two hundred years ago
and no man knows how long a time before — an aboriginal folk
fished in the waters of the West Fork of Brandywine. The remains of
an old breastwork of stones point to the former site of a dam, con-
nected probably with a rude sort of weir. Such is the tradition handed
down through several generations in the family of an alien occupant
of the land. This occupant and his descendants to the present time
have never permitted the ancient work to be disturbed, a rare and
kindly virtue in these days of scant sentiment. Only the unhindered
stream has worked its will. Not far from this dam, on a low rise
of land overlooking the valley, stands a scattered group of trees —
white oak and shellbark hickory — and here, again tradition has it, this
aboriginal folk buried its dead. Certain it is that the alien occupant,
though he ploughed deeply all about, likewise left this spot sacred to
the hand of time. The site is not marked by any tumuli; only the
level ground appears a trifle more grassy in some places, more springy
under the foot, which lends color to the tradition of long-forgotten
graves.
It was beyond a question that somewhere in this ground the mortal
traces of a man lay scattered — hidden as completely as in that prior
time of his being when as yet there was none of them. Deep in some
maternal tissue there had once been that marvelous gathering together
of elements — that ever-repeated miracle of the fashioning of a form
of life. Where no light was there was yet the molding of a structure
that in the days to come would be responsive to the light and to every
play of color; a structure that would hold wonderful pictures of land
and sea and sky. Where no sound was there was yet the molding of
another structure that would come to know the sympathetic voice, the
springtime song of birds, the multitudinous sounds of the forest, the
droning cadence of streams. In the depths of this nebulous man
another structure was being spun out of the life stuff, one that would
come to hold all that the sights and the sounds had to tell, that would
interpret their meanings, that would come to feel and to know, to
remember and to wonder. And yet in this dark fountain-head of being
there was no hint of such future possibilities. All through this forma-
tive man the delicate threads of life were spun between the central
