OF THE SOIL OF THE EARTH 421
brain and its outposts that in the end he might know himself and all
that went about him. Bit by bit bone and muscle, ligament and sinew,
were pieced together — strange artifices to do the brain's bidding. The
heart began as a throbbing pool of blood, the red current of which
found its devious way to every nook and cranny of the rapidly growing
form. Long before the possibility of air ever reaching into these depths
of dawning life the lungs were fashioned, and the mouth and stomach
were prophecies of the hunger to come.
Each particle of life matter that went into the building of this
man was indelibly stamped with the impress of inheritance. He was
fashioned after his kind. When he finally appeared among his people
and as he grew into manhood the bronze color of his skin, the straight
black hair, the dark iris, the long head with its high arched cheeks,
betokened the stock from which he sprang. His ways and his speech
were those of his ancestors. The more remote of these ancestors had
come from a hyperborean land at a time far back in the dim, unre-
corded lapse of millennia beyond the reach of tradition — a forgotten
dream period like that before birth. These ancient men without doubt
saw the mastodon in the flesh, as our cave-dwelling ancestors over the
seas beheld the mammoth. Successive generations of them may have
witnessed the floods of the melting ice-sheet and the changing features
of lake and river basins. A later horde, within the period of tradi-
tion, crossed the Eiver of Fish (Nameesi Sipu), fought and drove out
an ancient people — the Alligewi — who dwelt in the forest land to
the east of the great river and whose curious earthworks remain to
this day, and finally reached the place at the rising of the sun, beyond
the mountains (Alleghany), by the shores of the Great Lake of Salt-
water. Such is the meager thread of this man's race history.
Through the lapse of time with its shifting scenes the never-ending
drama of the generations of men goes on — birth, and the span of life,
and death. One indestructible thread is woven into this tissue of
humanity — the thread of inheritance that reaches back, like the
strands of a cable, into abysmal depths. This subtle thread of in-
heritance that runs through the generations had made this man what
he was and had cast him into his time and place. And the end of
it all is an unknown grave, as it is with Homer and Caesar, and the
innumerable host of men, small and great, that have ever lived.
In the waning light of a November afternoon I found the man
where he had lain these two hundred years or more imbedded deep in
the soil of the earth. The sockets in which the light of life once
gleamed, the cavernous nares through which the smells of young April
poured into the brain ; the bony ear canals that once rang to the rhythm
of the stream; the mouth place resonant with its strange speech — all
plugged solid with the clay. The very bones themselves had taken on
