WHAT IS MATTER? 29
■ours are there with matter, hut matter they simply are not, either
singly or all together. Color is with its beauty, in the eye, or rather
the mind, of the beholder, and there too is sound with its melody,
and all other experiences. They are the effects wrought upon us,
through the intermediation of our sense organs, by matter. Given an
adequate outer cause, an eye in its organism to be affected, and a mind
to perceive, and color is the result. Given cause, ear and mind, and
we have sound; or cause, touch organ and mind, and we have the
feeling of hardness. But matter, without sense organs or mind, can
not have such experiences. And the substance of matter they are not.
We know so much about the total situation when matter is present
that we easily delude ourselves into thinking that we know the matter
too. But, as Dr. Higgins once said, in dealing with experiences we are
merely playing with the pebbles on the beach ; the sea of reality, matter
itself, is still beyond our ken. What matter is not, its effects on our
senses, is plain. But what it is, all such talk leaves as dark as before
it was uttered.
And, until recently, science has been as dumb and helpless when
confronted by this question, as has common sense. Much is told about
the behavior of matter; how fast and far, and when it moves, and
what is the result of its impact, etc. ; all very interesting and highly
useful information. But how anything behaves, what it does, is one
thing; what it is is something entirely different. One is reminded of
Dr. Johnson's definition of oats, as a grain eaten by men in Scotland
and horses in England, except that he does class it as a grain.
Another familiar device of science is to divide and conquer ; though
in fact dividing does not itself succeed, but merely leads indirectly
towards success. " No wonder," says science, " we have not found
out what matter is, for matter is very deceptive, and is not at all
what it seems. In fact and in truth matter is made up, not of the
large bulks we see, but of minute particles, called molecules, in the
neighborhood, for the simplest element, hydrogen, of one fifty-millionth
of an inch in diameter,' and these minute molecules are in turn made
up of very much smaller particles, atoms, two to a molecule in some
elements, many more than two in others. And observe, we can point
out how the atoms are placed in the different molecules, and see how
beautifully they shift their places in mystic dance when a chemical
reaction occurs. All that happens in the intercourse of matter is at
bottom but the interplay of atoms and of molecules. How wonderful
is nature, and how searching the discoveries of science ! "
All of which is true, indeed profoundly useful truth. For has not
science transformed the face of the earth in an incredibly short time,
a little over fifty years. And yet how much nearer are we to knowing
what matter is when we discover how it is put together? If we ask
what wood is, and are told that it is made up of tiny pieces of wood
