THE GREAT MARINE VERTEBRATES 425
THE CONSERVATION OF THE GREAT MARINE VERTE-
BRATES: IMMINENT DESTRUCTION OF THE
WEALTH OF THE SEAS
By G. R. WIELAND, Ph.D.
OP THE CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON AND YALE UNIVERSITY J MEMBER OF THE
AMERICAN SOCIETY OF VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGISTS
THE rapidity with which our large wild animals are being destroyed
at the present time is scarcely realized, to say nothing of the
threatened introduction of a noiseless gun. Because this or that spe-
cies is usually considered by itself, it is not generally noted that in the
aggregate there is scarcely a single feral form large enough to attract
the bullet of the hunter but is foredoomed to speedy extermination if
a public sentiment mighty to save is not soon aroused ; and such senti-
ment must cross and recross political boundaries, must be world-wide,
to be wholly effective.
Much has been said about the preservation of various birds and
land mammals; but with the exception of the seal, the passing of the
great animals of the sea provokes little comment. Indeed, their pro-
tection or conservation is commonly deemed impossible or not worth
the while, it being invariably overlooked that not a single great animal
of the sea, unless of extreme rarity like some of the gigantic cuttle-
fishes, is without a large economic value, and thus always sooner or
later the object of an exterminating hunt. Much less is the zoologic
value considered — that intrinsic side which passes far beyond more
obvious utility into the domain of the philosophic, and lends to sea and
land a mighty charm.
Contrariwise, students of animal history and distribution, and more
especially those who go back and study the fossil record as well, can
not fail to observe with alarm the unremitting warfare against all the
animal kind, that, extending far into the prehistoric period to the great
land turtles and moas, has with the exploration of the remote places
of the earth and the arming of every savage tribe with modern weapons,
become a heedless debacle. It is therefore simply in the performance
of a plain every-day duty that in recent annual mid-winter meetings
of various scientific societies there has been brought forward for discus-
sion, on a broad basis, the question of animal conservation on a large
scale. We may especially cite the resolution passed unanimously by
the American Society of Vertebrate Paleontologists at New Haven,
as follows:
