426 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Resolved, That the American Society of Vertebrate Paleontologists will aid
in any way practicable those measures legislative, international and local which
will prevent the now imminent extermination of the great marine vertebrates,
especially the cetaceans and manatees, seals, green and other turtles on the
coasts of the United States, or on the high seas.
This resolution was also adopted as its own by the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science at its Chicago meeting, and
very similar action has been taken by the New York Zoological Society
looking to needed action by congress. Many evidences of a world-wide
interest are at hand.
The Thousand-year Hunt of the Whales
The first of the great cetaceans to be hunted, was the Biscayan
whale, Balcena glacialis. Its capture was begun in the ninth century
by the Bisques and soon taken up by others. Following extermina-
tion in the Gascoigne Bay, the hunt was slowly pushed northward to
Finland and Iceland, and along the western Atlantic; it being even
possible that whalers visited the Newfoundland shores long previous
to the discoveries of Columbus. The relentless warfare to which the
Biscayan whale was subjected for hundreds of years culminated in the
sixteenth century and only stopped short of total extinction through the
extension of the fisheries to the far north and discovery of the greater
value of the Greenland whale, Balcena mysticetus.
The capture of the latter began in 1612 in the open waters between
Spitzbergen and Greenland, and soon extended to Davis Strait and
Baffin Bay. After two hundred years of unceasing pursuit this whale
was driven to the remote places of the Arctic Ocean, and is now so
nearly extinct that its recovery in numbers is doubtful. It may be
too late to save this form; although from 1669 to 1778 it yielded to
14,167 Dutch vessels 57,590 catches worth $16,000,000 net. But this
is only one of the many killings of the proverbial goose that laid the
golden eggs, and a cruel enough one too. Scoresby says, in speaking
of this timid whale of strictly arctic range, that it shows an affection
for its young which " would do honor to the superior intelligence of
human beings " ; but being a trader as well as observer he adds that
" the value of the prize . . . can not be sacrificed to the feelings of
compassion ! "
After the virtual extermination of these two more valuable species
the merciless hunt was diverted to the much wilder finback whale,
Balcenoptera physalis, now in turn with still other forms destined to
extinction if restrictive measures are not soon taken. For in these
days of steam, and electric light that robs the long arctic night of its
terrors, the whale chase goes on very fast. The shot harpoon, 1 the
1 Invented by Sven Foyn about 1870, by which time, owing to wildness and
scarcity of the whales, the older methods of capture were no longer capable of
returning a profit. Foyn was at first a sealer.
