THE GREAT MARINE VERTEBRATES 427
most extraordinary weapon ever used by man in his pursuit of help-
less animals, is doing its deadly work at a rate that does not permit
delay.
No effective measure has yet been taken ; although man has actually
made his first pause in the brutal butchery and reckless waste of the
whale kind, begun a thousand years ago, and now nearing an end
hastened in geometric proportion by modern invention.
The capture of the finback and other whales is indeed forbidden in
the Norwegian fjords, but this is of little avail; for, unfortunately,
the whales visiting the Scandinavian coast to calve and feed their
young make a round into the far northern waters about the Bear
Island and Spitzbergen, and are there slaughtered just as inevitably.
When I was at the Bear Island whaling establishment early in July
last I was informed that up to that time the season's catch already
numbered forty-seven; and the evidence on every hand, the several
thousand barrels of oil on the hillside, the skeleton-lined shore, the
thousands of carrion-eating birds, and the trying-out works that sent
up an odor that literally smelled to heaven as it floated away for miles
over mountain, valley and snow field — all these told the story of short-
sighted human greed better than records.
This reckless arctic hunt is now largely confined to the finback, to
Balcenoptera borealis, to the gigantic blue whale, Balamopteris mus-
culus, and to Megaptera longimana. It is a bloody hunt, occurring
when the females, which show throughout an extraordinary affection,
are suckling their young.
The most recently attacked form is the bottle-nose, Hyperoodon
rostratus; and just twenty-seven years have brought this superb grega-
rious animal to the verge of extinction; for although worth but a few
hundred dollars each, this species is easy to catch. Unlike the fierce
and wary " cachalot" its wondering curiosity and lack of fear makes it
easy prey.
For the greater part, however, the whale butchery is, for a second
time, being transferred to the Antarctic, where, after an interim of
fifty years, whales are again more plentiful, showing very conclusively
the need of exact study of the habits of the whale and an international
police patrol. So far as we are monetarily concerned, it may be stated
that the whaling industry of the United States, north and south, from
1835 to the wane of the fisheries about 1872, yielded oil and bone worth
$272,000,000 ; this vast sum being the net from 19,943 voyages with a
capture of 300,000 whales.
The total capture of all the species of whale mentioned above may
well fall short of 1,000,000 individuals — certainly a limited number
when we consider a hunt that has occupied the maritime nations of the
globe for quite 1,000 years, and a number, moreover, that warns us how
very liable to extinction are all enormous and highly specialized mam-
