428 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
mals. Evidently the values destroyed in the unreasoning hunt must
already be several times as great as the market price of the product
secured, to say nothing of the future. It is apparent enough that even
if we deny to animals the right to live that Professor Nathorst has so
justly and so eloquently maintained they have, the reduction of our
problem to the sordid standard demands immediate action. Certainly
no one need be reminded that it has taken nature millions of years to
evolve the whales, and that it is unlikely that the feat can be again
duplicated on this planet.
The great destruction of the whales is, as we see, then, mainly
modern ; the first six or seven hundred years of hunting previous to the
use of swift launches were not so noticeably destructive. Perhaps the
manner in which large animal species living under strenuous condi-
tions and necessarily breeding slowly are so swiftly destroyed in modern
times can be understood better in the case of a land form like the
musk ox, to which I may briefly advert. Half sheep, half ox, this
curiously interesting animal, yielding in quantity a strong under wool
with a texture as fine as silk, is confined solely to the treeless arctic
wastes of North America and the islands to the north ; its habitat orig-
inally extended from Hudson Bay westerly to the Mackenzie River,
and all through Baffin Land, and Ellesmere Land to northernmost
Greenland. Though the musk ox, despite this wide range, is now
becoming exceedingly scarce. Cut off by the white hunter everywhere
to the south, the Eskimo of the far north, always hard on the musk ox,
have at last obtained guns and are now killing the northern remnants of
the original herd. Thus is this hapless denizen of the most inhos-
pitable regions of the earth being ground between the upper and nether
millstone.
As such a process must have a speedy end, it is greatly to be hoped
that the musk ox can be introduced into Alaska, and that the Canadian
and United States governments may soon take this subject up con-
jointly. It is most unfortunate that the recent Swedish attempt to
introduce musk oxen into Jamtland, southern Lapland, has failed owing
to local parasitic enemies.
Destruction of Our Sea Turtles
Taking up another group of great sea animals; no chapter in the
story of destruction is quite so harrowing as that of the sea turtles of
the southern coasts and islands of the United States — the more so
because it is not only the original supply that has been cut off, but
because there is not the least doubt but that the turtles can with slight
expense be increased vastly beyond any numbers ever observed in purely
natural environments.
The problem of conserving and increasing the plant-eating green
turtle and the animal-eating hawksbill, which yields the tortoise shell
