THE GREAT MARINE VERTEBRATES 429
of commerce, should be definitely taken up, and solved. The original
numbers of these forms in the natural state were always limited by the
helplessness of the young when first hatched. With a shell at first
very soft, great numbers are eaten by the shore birds of prey before
even reaching the comparative safety of the water after floundering
out of the sand where the eggs were laid. And once in the water the
young are still for a time the prey of sharks, so that of the hundred or
more that emerge from a single hatching a very few survive these early
dangers to reach adult size. This helplessness may, however, be readily
tided over by only the slightest protection, as the young grow very
rapidly, and the shell soon thickens. If all shores where the green
and hawksbill turtles lay their eggs were guarded by law enforced, and
the young safely piloted to the water and perhaps fed for a few times
only, it is evident, remembering the unvarying habit of the females
to return to the same shores to lay their eggs, that the great pasturing
and foraging grounds of our southern waters could be made to teem
with these turtles. Audubon gives a vivid account of the Florida
" turtlers " and the abundance of the turtles in his day ; though these
original numbers can doubtless be increased twentyfold.
Yet it has come to pass that the United States Bureau of Fisheries
has not during several years of effort been able to secure any eggs of
the green turtle whatever on our shores. Nor will it be otherwise with
the less palatable loggerhead in a very few years, if as at present, even
the employees of the Coast Service, part of whose duties it should
certainly be to protect these animals, continue as now to be the chief
agents of their destruction. Even on the Dry Tortugas within shadow
of the Marine Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution the lighthouse
keeper whiles away the night searching up and down the long white
sandy beach for turtles; and save in a fog, every time a female turtle
flounders helplessly on to the beach to lay her eggs our friend of the
lighthouse signals with a warning horn to the " beach combers " and
" conch s " who rush up and despatch the egg-bearing female. These
" conchs," are indeed an evolving type of very hungry beachers who,
now that game is scarce, " close " on everything from a wrecked
schooner to a stranded turtle or whale.
Protection of All the Great Marine Vertebrates is Feasible
Certainly the " beacher," the " conch " and the " sea wolf " are as
interesting as the animals they destroy, and within certain very specific
limits may deserve perpetuation ! Meantime, for the sake of the
preservation of both, as well as the superior rights of those dwelling
inland — the greater number interested in the question of the eminent
domain of the sea — it is needed to quickly demonstrate the fact that
the world will not tolerate needless slaughter of its anciently evolved
