43° POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
animals, least of all when this incurs values incalculably greater than
those represented by the seals alone.
All phases of this question which can be handled locally, and such
are the more urgent phases, should be so handled by the proper bureaus,
already in existence, backed by unmistakably knowing public sentiment.
Sequentially the system of international safeguarding should be ex-
tended and perfected — the same system that has been already invoked
for the seals, by reason of the fact that they yield that woman's garment
— the seal-skin cloak. Only when all the sea animals are considered
will this system ever be effective in the case of any single species; and
somewhat setting aside altruism, it does seem strange that the immense
values of the whales and turtles should have been so persistently over-
looked. On the other hand, a very great altruistic value is also in-
volved. For all international movements leading to the reasonable
use of naval equipment in patrolling all the seas for the sake of com-
mon and world-wide interests and sympathies — those causes at once
humane and wealth-conserving, must thrice bless.
It is, then, we must emphatically insist, neither Utopian nor im-
practical to attempt and speedily carry out the measures required for
the preservation not only of land animals, but of all our great animals
of the sea. The only element of doubt is whether the volume of senti-
ment can soon enough make itself felt — in short, whether the race
has reached the required culture stage in time. Science has laid low
the fallacious theory of fabulous gold dissolved in the waters of the
seas, and we no longer heed this phantom of wealth which has deluded
credulous minds quite since the days of alchemy. Nevertheless, this
old belief may yet find a certain large measure of prophetic fulfillment
if man can overcome his habits of wanton destruction before our great
marine animals are extinct and the possibility of their preservation on
this planet gone forever.
To be practical, every zoological text-book should have its chapter
on the conservation of the animals of the land and sea. None should
be forgotten, as many must inevitably be if the subject of conservation is
not taken up in its broadest phases and based on first principles in order
that specific applications may be both general and intelligent. And
such teaching and applications, at once interesting, useful and eleva-
ting, should make their way into every district school. It may well be
doubted if the human kind will ever be merciful to itself without being
first merciful to the beast kind. For use and domestication do not con-
stitute cruelty, since in natural environments the end of the individual
is always violent — that is the weak are captured by the hunting ani-
mals, and the lion starves when no longer able to hunt. Conversely,
to exterminate the forms of the sea and land is repulsive. What a
degrading, miserable story is that of the hunt of the sea otter.
