THE WHITER PITTSBURGH 431
THE WHITEE PITTSBUEGH
BY JOHN F. CARGILL
PITTSBURGH, PA.
IT has very happily been said that the location of the city of Pitts-
burgh was decided in the Carboniferous age of our planet.
Equally true it is that, uncounted ages before the primal granite was
clothed in verdure which " the creeping centuries " drew from sur-
rounding air, some happening in far-away nebular space — some law of
gravitation or propulsion determined the soft coal deposits, and the
three branching rivers of later age. These things influenced and pre-
arranged the site of the Iron City. If the widest range were given
to imagination, perhaps it might be argued, too, that the all-enfolding
laws shaped even the course of modern industry — declaring what
manner of people should become the city's builders. But it is not the
purpose of this article to raise any question of law versus foreordina-
tion.
The early settlers in the Pittsburgh district were largely composed
of Scotch-Irish; a stock rugged and honest, that has, individually and
collectively, assisted in the making of more world history within the
past three hundred years than any nationality has ever done within a
similar period. The unleavened Scotch-Irishman can hardly be de-
scribed as of fascinating or lovable personality ; but empires have never
been founded or perpetuated by qualities sweetly lovable. Strength and
determination are the essentials ; and " rugged and honest " is a fair
designation. Many another people might well covet one so good.
He has usually been punctilious in his dealings, reliable and moral :
a considerate husband and father, religious, Calvinistic, opinionated,
self-sufficient, blunt and austere. He is little interested in literature,
or in science except in so far as it might contribute to his immediate
business interests. The Bible is, in the main, he thinks, sufficient for
literature and the conduct of life. (The reference is not so much to
the comparatively modified and composite man of to-day as to the
generation that is passing.) In character and temperament he is
radically different from the New Englanders who settled some of our
other bustling cities to the'north and west; but no man is in position
to say that, so far as material results are concerned, the Pittsburgher
has not availed himself to the utmost of his opportunities.
Before the war of the rebellion, Pittsburgh was of comparatively
little consequence. There was a town here, which had called itself a
city for more than fifty years. Situated at the junction of three
rivers, the waterways furnished the means of traffic. But there was
