432 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
little business; no capital invested from the outside; none of the
present-day commercial enterprise. Every small manufacturer was a
workman, and furnished his own capital. Such statistics as we have
of the decade before the war show that all combined the little fur-
naces and factories used somewhat more than three hundred thou-
sand tons of coal per annum. In 1906 forty-six million tons were
mined in the Pittsburgh district. Farming and matters relating to
river traffic were the greater industries, and Pittsburgh was the market
and outfitting emporium west of the Alleghenies.
When at length a little charcoal iron began to be produced, the
sturdy artisans of Pittsburgh worked some of it up into articles such
as plows, axes, saws, scythes and other farm implements; locks, scales
and malleable iron castings. But the Pittsburgher did not reach out
after business; he scarcely even asked for it; all of which is in con-
formity with the Scotch-Irish principle of stubbornness. He did not
advertise, nor send out salesmen. It has been said that not a traveling
salesman was sent out of Pittsburgh before the war. Whereas the
Yankee business man of other western towns went after trade, the
Pittsburgher's attitude was that of confident indifferentism. " This is
the head of navigation," he would say — " everything has got to come
here, sooner or later." And he was right. Whether he builded better
than he knew, we can not say; but events have proved that his in-
dustrial fortress was impregnable.
It was during the years of the war, and the period immediately
subsequent, that Pittsburgh " found herself." The first oil discovery
was made just prior to the actual breach between the north and south;
and the production of oil, added to the other resources of the region,
gave a new impulse to the industrial situation. The terrible years
from 1860 to 1865 stimulated rather than depressed business condi-
tions in Pittsburgh; since the needs of the War Department, of out-
fitting, furnishing of arms and armament, building of river craft and
gunboats, and the point of vantage that was offered for the transfer
and transportation of troops and supplies, were tremendous factors.
The things that have made for the development of Pittsburgh in the
last generation have been set forth and printed and distributed the
country over, and translated into all the languages of the globe. To
try to enumerate them would involve a burdensome task, unnecessary
to the present article; and only a few leading figures may be given,
merely to suggest what is now being done.
The coal production of 1906 has been stated at 46.000,000 tons;
the figures for 1907 being not yet accessible. The traffic tonnage, by
rail and river for the same period was 122,000,000 tons; 12,000,000
tons having descended the Ohio Eiver from Pittsburgh. The traction
cars carried during the year 200,000,000 people. The total bank
deposits at the close of the year were over $340,000,000. The real
