THE WHITER PITTSBURGH 435
en the high hills adjacent. The total area of all of the parks is over
nine hundred acres.
The city that leads the world in iron manufacture must inevitably
be a smoky city. For a period, beginning in the early eighties, when
natural gas was first applied to manufacturing on a considerable scale,
the diminished use of coal led to brighter and clearer conditions. But
the industrial growth of Pittsburgh has been such that the supply of
gas soon came to be inadequate. Gas is still used as an auxiliary fuel,
but the percentage of soft coal is growing relatively larger year by
year. So far as the iron furnaces are concerned, it is hardly to be
expected that much relief from smoke is likely to be had while coal
remains as plentiful and cheap as now. (It has been estimated that the
Pittsburgh deposits are likely to last two hundred years or more, accord-
ing to the rate of increase in production.)
But the most of the furnaces are situated outside of the city proper,
and the annoyance of smoke and soot from the steel and iron works is
less than is generally supposed. Many visitors express surprise over
the small amount of smoke, as compared with what was expected; and
it is not unusual to hear it said that Pittsburgh is not perceptibly
smokier than many other places.
But the Pittsburgher makes no such claim. The Iron City is
blacker and more smoky than most towns; although it is certainly not
so bad as its reputation. And it is going to be very much better.
For years those of her citizens interested in civic improvement have
been fighting for a smoke ordinance; and now one has been carried
through — a good one, which will stand: it has been framed upon cor-
rective and improved lines. The people have learned through hard
experience how to do some things effectively. Establishments that
have for years taken advantage of Pittsburgh's sooty reputation, and
so allowed their chimneys to belch incontinently, are already being
restrained.
Compared with many large manufacturing cities, the physical con-
ditions in Pittsburgh do not render it an especially undesirable place
of residence; and a little journey through the East End divisions of
Oakland, East Liberty or Swissvale would convince almost any person
who views the miles of handsome residences and well-kept grounds.
And the surroundings and suburbs extending for miles down the
Ohio River are quite unusually beautiful. Moreover, contrary to a
supposition which prevails in other places, Pittsburgh is not unhealth-
ful. According to the statistics, Allegheny County will bear com-
parison in healthfulness with almost any of the larger centers of popula-
tion.
Architecturally, there is much that can be said for Pittsburgh, as
compared with other cities of equal prominence; and a good deal has
been written thereon. The Allegheny County Court House stands
