3 o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
put together thus and so, information, important information, it may
well be, is given. But plainly our question is not answered, it is merely
pushed a step farther back. In the equations of science, it would seem,
matter is represented by an x, whose value is seldom sought. But with
everything made out of matter, it is certainly worth the while to search
out its intrinsic nature.
Possibly then, since common sense and science appear to be equally
unable to say what matter is, the problem is beyond the scope of human
powers. May be, as Lord Dundreary says, it is one of those things
no fellow can tell. It may be so, but it is well to remember that the
discoveries of science have nearly all been things that the faint-
hearted said no fellow could tell. Besides, as regards the problem of
matter, no philosophic generation has ever been wholly agnostic, and
the foremost members of the present and latest scientific generation
are not agnostic. And, moreover — a point of especial significance — it is
well to remind ourselves that philosophers and scientists, in spite of
the difference of their points of view, and of their methods, seem
rapidly to be approaching agreement as to the nature of matter. It
should then repay us to hear what they have to say.
Insisting, as we have seen, that sensations — colors, sounds, tastes
and the rest, are not matter, or any part of matter, philosophers — at
least those unconfused by Hume's oversophisticated attack on causes,
taken so seriously by Kant — these philosophers, I say, maintain that
sensations rightly studied tell us what matter is. Known directly,
and indirectly as effects of matter working on our senses, sensations,
critically considered, show matter to be a vastly complicated system
of active causes, occupying space, that and nothing more. 2 Each ma-
terial object is thus known to be a group of forces, more or less com-
plicated in their interplay, and varied as to their constituent elements.
The forces constituting a living cell are very varied in kind and
complicated in interplay, as compared with those composing an equal
volume of hydrogen gas; but complicated and varied forces are forces
none the less. Moreover, all kinds of matter have one quality in com-
mon, the forceful defense of the space they occupy. This is called
their solidity or impenetrability. Everything material opposes force
to attempted encroachment on its space, and, unless given room else-
where, absolutely prevents its entire appropriation; though all the forces
of the universe pressed upon a single drop of water, it could not be
annihilated. Thus impenetrability is the active defense of space. The
fundamental constituent of matter is force. 3 And other constituents
are the chemical, electrical and remaining physical activities, whose
2 Nothing more so far as sensations of the special senses can help us to
know the intrinsic nature of matter.
3 Some would prefer the term " energy," others " activity." I know of no
satisfactory term; but the thing denoted is real, many and baffling as are the
mysteries it contains.
