44°
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Diplodocus Carnegiei Hatcher; Order of Diriosauria: in < artiegie Museum: 84 feet in
length; found by the Carnegie Expedition under John Bell Hatcher, in Jurassic beds, Sheep
Creek Basin, Wyoming, in 1900. The only complete specimen ever found. — A. replica is in
the British Museum.
eminent artists who have lived in the city are John W. Alexander,
Charles S. Beinhart, A. G. Beinhart, George Hetzel, William, Alfred
and Bryan Wall, Clarence Johns, David Blythe and others.
The new institute building, usually so called, is an Italian Benais-
sance structure covering four acres, and containing the Library, the
Museum, the Fine Arts galleries, and the Hall of Music. The Tech-
nical Schools have another location. The museum has over 100,000
square feet of floor space on the first, second and third stories; and a
special library which takes up one end of the great central court.
In the basement are rooms devoted to the curator's work, and the prepa-
ration of specimens. The lecture hall seating between six and seven
hundred people opens from the museum section ; and here the Academy
of Science and Art holds meetings, and provides lectures which are free
to the public. At present there are in the museum over 1,300,000
objects on exhibition. The aim is to not only illustrate and interest,
but to educate the masses in matters of fauna and flora, geology and
mineralogy. Besearch and science are furthered by the systematic col-
lections in its library.
In the field of music, the Pittsburgh Orchestra has achieved na-
tional distinction — going back to the earlier clays when Frederic Archer
was its first conductor. Mr. Archer also played the magnificent organ
for many years. When he died Edwin H. Lemare became organist;
while the directorship was taken up by Victor Herbert. Under Her-
bert the orchestra became famous as one of the leading musical institu-
tions of the country; and under Emil Paur, the present conductor,
whose reputation is international, it has reached a still higher level.
The concerts are always well attended, although they are not free. A
