446 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
shall be men sought by students from everywhere, for sake even of the
one man.
The feeling of democracy is cultivated; and every discouragement
possible is thrown in the way of dividing into high and low castes,
upper and lower strata, cliques or classes.
The tuition fee is nominal. The directors wish it understood that
while the school gives courses in engineering and the trades which are
on an equal footing with other institutions, yet it is not the aim to
turn out skilled or practised engineers or mechanics. What is claimed
is that the institution can turn out those who are capable of becoming
better engineers and mechanics than those who have lesser opportuni-
ties, or training not so good. That which only can develop the mature
engineer or mechanic is future practical experience.
Another aim of the institution, already very effective, is the finding
of employment to aid indigent students in working their way through.
It is not claimed that employment is provided for every student who
now applies for it; but that much is being done, and much more will
be done in the future. During 1907 over 600 men students applied
for employment through the secretary of the schools. Approximately
350 positions were offered, and nearly 300 positions were filled by
students, making up an aggregate earning capacity of upwards of
$25,000.
The Western University of Pennsylvania is, with one exception
(the University of Xashville), the oldest institution of learning west
of the Appalachian Mountain ranges. It has an enrollment to-day of
somewhat more than 1,100 students; and besides the Department of
Astrophysics (of which, more hereafter) there are five main depart-
ments, namely: Engineering, Law, Medicine, Pharmacy and Dentistry.
The buildings are now scattered; but the plans for the future involve
the concentre don of all departments on a new site. The location is
most admirable, consisting of 43 acres adjacent to the Carnegie Insti-
tute, and the Technical Schools. A race for development seems not
unlikely to grow up between this institution and the Technical Schools,
both of which seem destined to become strong educational factors.
It was in the year 1867 that Samuel Pierpont Langley was ap-
pointed to the chair of astronomy and physics in the Western Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania; and beginning almost from that time the
Allegheny Observatory has held a place among the working observa-
tories of the world. The equipment contained only a thirteen-inch
equatorial telescope; and necessity, then as always the greatest spur to
progress, stimulated Langley's fertile brain for a means of providing
his observatory with better apparatus. For some years he labored with
the problem of electrical time signals for railroads, in which he was
finally successful, introducing the time signals on the Pennsylvania
system, and other railroads in the district. Since then observatory
