WHAT IS MATTER? 31
effects are more or less familiar. Nor need philosophers deny that
matter is made up of molecules and atoms, or of electrons even, pro-
vided alwa3'S these smaller and smaller particles are admitted to be
bundles of forces, occupying less and less extended allotments of space.
Where this view departs from that of common sense, it is simpler,
that is all. Common sense says matter is blue, sweet, soft, etc. No,
say the philosophers, these are effects, not properties. Again, common
sense says, and here with a shrill insistence, Force is not matter, but in
it. No, say philosophers, there is no need of complicating with an
irrelevant distinction. Force, activity, achievement, that is all there
is to matter. As Heracleitus said 2,500 years ago, xavr'< pei, flowing,
change, doing is all.
Beyond question the blind force of our nature strongly inclines us
to ask for more. But in obeying this prompting we are but worship-
ping an idol of the tribe, a fallacy patent enough as soon as the nature
of the mind is understood. The insistence oh something more than
force in outer objects registers the triumph of the " imagination," a
blind " faculty," as Kant rightly called it, unaware of its own contents
and of their significance, over clear-sighted and self-critical reason.
Everything we talk of and think about, including matter, is identified,
when necessary, and mentally dealt with, by means of its picture
stored away in the imagination, which picture appears automatically
when its aid is required. Without such counterfeit presentments the
mind could not make a beginning of dealing with the objects about
it, for their names are not pasted upon them, and besides, the mind
is often concerned with them during their absence, and must then
have a representative with which to treat. Now, most men picture
matter chiefly in visual terms, though partly in terms of touch and
muscular feelings, which last are so constantly aroused by the resistance
of things. And the fallacy consists in clinging to the picture of mat-
ter, naively, uncritically, inaccurately constructed before reflection, out
of our most familiar sensations, and in insisting that it correctly repre-
sents matter, although reason clearly demonstrates that sensations are
no parts of matter, but only its effects. And the fallacy continues to
impose on us because the picture works in subconsciousness, auto-
matically registering dissatisfaction with force, as failing to fill out its
notion of what matter is. As soon as we know that the picture of our
imagination is formed during the early unthinking days of our igno-
rance, we know that it has no proper standing as against the critically
tested conclusions of reason. But that does not check the dissatis-
faction automatically suggested by the imaginat'on, which philosophers
feel in common with other men. The difference is that they disregard
the feeling; they refuse to bow down to this idol of the tribe.
The same dynamic view of matter is reached by another avenue of
approach, as is pointed out by students of the evolution of mind.
