THE WHITER PITTSBURGH 449
merit of Science, besides having other honorary memberships and de-
grees in large number.
John A. Brashear began to make telescopes as a business in 1880;
although his first telescope, a refractor of five-inch aperture, was made
in 1872-5. When it is remembered that Brashear had reached middle
life before he relinquished his employment as master mechanic in the
rolling mills to begin experimenting in the field of optics and astronomy,
the amount of valuable scientific work he has accomplished in the thirty-
odd subsequent years is fairly amazing. He made many pieces of
apparatus for Professor Langley's studies; besides a long list, impos-
sible to enumerate here, of telescopes, reflecting lenses, mirrors and
spectroscopes for astronomers' use in all parts of the world. He has
sent instruments to England, Ireland, France, Germany, Egypt, South
Africa, Australia, Syria, Italy, Argentina, Japan and numerous other
countries, besides an endless series of apparatus for use in the United
States and Canada. One reflecting telescope which he himself used in
a three years' study of the floor of the lunar crater Plato, was in con-
stant use afterwards by Professor Langley. Brashear developed a
highly valuable method of silvering mirrors, which was freely given to
the scientific world ; published a paper on " A New Method of Correct-
ing Errors of Curvature in Optical Surfaces," which has proved inval-
uable; constructed apparatus for measuring the velocity of light, and
also to measure the differential velocities between long and short waves ;
many refractometers, and optical trains — among which were two for
Lord Eayleigh with error not exceeding 1/1,500,000 of an inch. He-
constructed the first spectro-photoheliograph for Professor Hale, a work
that was epoch-making in the realm of solar photography. One of his
spectroscopes made for Professor James E. Keeler, of Allegheny Ob-
servatory, was the instrument used by Keeler in the discovery of the
physical character of the rings of Saturn, proving the correctness of the
Clark Maxwell mathematical theory. One of his finest instruments is
the Mills spectrograph for the Lick Observatory, used by Professor
Campbell in his many discoveries of the motions of stars in the line of
sight. With the cameras he has built for astronomical photography a
hundred new planetoids have been discovered. He has made, perhaps,
the largest perfect plane in existence, 33-inch diameter. He has just
completed the 37%-inch mirror of the great Cassegrain telescope for
the University of Michigan; and is now constructing a 30-inch re-
fractor for the Allegheny Observatory and a 24-inch for Swarthmore;
and has orders for enough large and important instruments to tax the
capacity of his workshop for more than two years.
Data about the hundreds of pieces of apparatus that he has made
would fill a book. And besides, he has raised by his own personal
efforts nearly three hundred thousand dollars for the construction of
vol. Lxxn. — 29.
