45° POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the new astro-physical observatory of the Western University of Penn-
sylvania — the equal of any in the world. " I can not say," he says,
" that the hank balance bears a fair relation to the work we have
done," but he adds that in view of the marvelous discoveries made,
and the appreciative and kind treatment he has had from the world, he
feels like saying, " I am content. ... I have that which can not be
bought by dollars and cents." Dr. Brashear always emphasizes that
his associate and son-in-law, James B. McDowell, is master of the
development of the delicate work in optical service; and that he could
never have made his success without McDowell's cooperation. Dr.
Charles S. Hastings, of Yale University has also been associated with
Dr. Brashear in the development of the mathematical problems of
modern optics : the day of empiricism in optical science having become
a thing of the past. Dr. Brashear has twice been a director of the
Allegheny Observatory; and is now chairman of the Observatory Com-
mittee; he served two and a half years as acting chancellor of the
Western University of Pennsylvania. He has degrees of LL.D. from
Wooster University of Ohio and Washington-Jefferson Unversity, as
well as degree of Sc.D. from the Western University.
Pittsburgh's " arrogance and greed " have been so advertised that
it should be permissible to mention that the city contains more than one
Imndred and fifty active benevolent and charitable institutions; more
than twenty large, finely equipped hospitals; and over four hundred
churches of all denominations. It is scarcely more of an iron city than
a city of churches and church-going people. There are benevolent
societies, non-sectarian and sectarian; homes for the destitute, aged,
infirm, white and colored, for men, women, girls and children; public
baths for the poor ; children's playgrounds for poor children.
One of the most notable institutions (undoubtedly the most remark-
able single-handed permanent beneficence in the world) is the Carnegie
Belief Fund, endowed five years ago by Andrew Carnegie, with a gift
of four million dollars in Steel Company bonds. This fund applies
to more than 65,000 men employed in the iron and steel trades, who,
with their families and dependents, would comprise an aggregate popu-
lation of over 300,000 persons. The bonds bear good interest, and the
income provides for accidents, deaths and pensions. There has been a
total disbursement already of $1,129,117.29. In 1907 the amount paid
out was $216,764.03.
A well-known writer has said that Pittsburgh men are strong,
upright and good intentioned, but "too busy" in the upbuilding of
industries and fortunes to pay attention to the civic welfare. Perhaps
the utterance was timely ; for since then the long-delayed civic awaken-
ing has come to pass. The betterment, always hoped for — regarded by
the many as impossibly Utopian, but always fought for by a tenacious
and stubborn few — is an accomplished and positive fact. Two years
