THE WHITER PITTSBURGH 451
ago the fighting citizens seized a political opportunity; and Pittsburgh
has in Mayor George W. Guthrie an executive of whom it is justly
proud. Not even by his bitter political opponents is he charged with
any wish or motive that is foreign to the highest interest of the city.
From a machine-ridden, ring-encircled municipality, the revolution-
izing and purging have been so thorough that political corruption is
now virtually non-existent. It is no longer " a city ashamed " ; it is
joyful and proud.
Anxious critics have inquired whether Pittsburgh's sudden and
untoward opulence is a menace — a menace to itself, and to humanity.
The city has been adding a chapter or two to the history of sociology.
It has turned out (promoted is perhaps more accurate) a new and
curious variety of plutocrat ; and still worse, has produced a new leisure
class. The latter was born out of the loins of toiling industry; has
sprung upon an amazed world within a decade; and the funny twins
have made an unwelcome commotion. It is seriously asked whether
these do not furnish a gauge by which the future manhood of Pitts-
burgh is to be determined: whether they are not the prolific seeds of
complete degeneracy.
The answer is to be found in the fact that Pittsburgh was raised up
by the brain and brawn, the self-respecting moral qualities of its
Scotch-Irish founders. They were, and are yet, a forceful race —
fighters and workers, natural leaders, men with a high sense of duty,
who do their own thinking. Do the critics see no signs of the vital
undercurrent which is to be the determining factor of the future? Do
they not see in Pittsburgh's intellectual activity a guaranty of the more
wonderful reputation which is to be achieved hereafter, when the present
spendthrift perversions and pranks have been long forgotten ? Just as
it has been in the past, so now the vicious idler is made to feel uncom-
fortable. His father toiled for his winnings, is toiling yet, if he lives,
and the son who lives only to spend money and invent new and out-
rageous forms of diversion is a virtual outcast. And yet he is an
almost inevitable outgrowth of the marvelous period. He is not con-
fined to Pittsburgh; but has merely been somewhat disproportionately
advertised. And doubtless, too, his number is small as compared with
what it might have been had the principles of his progenitors been less
firmly anchored. He will not increase. Pittsburgh has even a con-
fident hope that he and his tribe may become extinct.
