452 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
THE EDUCATION OF THE COLORED RACE IS THE
DUTY OF THE NATION
By Professor HARRIS HANCOCK
UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI
FORTY years ago the civil war was ended, the negro freed. In-
dividually there will always be persons who entertain feelings of
animosity against their fellow man of another section; for sectionalism
will ever exist. But as a nation such feelings must be buried, if there
are any which influence the political government of the people. For
every section is a part of the nation and the nation is under equal
obligations to every section. Each state is an integral part of the
nation, and no state may be regarded by the union as a province.
It is a historical fact that slavery was forced upon this country by
England against the protests of the states, both north and south. For
example, in 1769 the House of Burgesses of Virginia by a vote
abolished slavery, but was prohibited from so doing by George III.,
King of England, " in the interests of commerce." Further, in 1778
Virginia, and in 1798 Georgia, passed acts prohibiting the importation
of slaves, Virginia fixing as a penalty the heavy fine of one thousand
pounds; it is also true that Virginia, Tennessee and Kentucky were
banded together in the support of a practical system of emancipating
the slaves by degrees, a movement which was eventually stopped by
the abolitionists, a party that came into existence after the Missouri
compromise, in 1820-21. This party demanded the immediate and
uncompensated freedom of all slaves, notwithstanding the fact that
England had just liberated four hundred thousand slaves at the cost
of twenty million pounds. No other such attack upon private property
can be found in the history of civilized nations. We emphasize the
fact that some of the southern states led the world in an earnest appeal
to prevent slavery, although with a peculiar irony the world to-day
holds the south responsible absolutely for the existence of this institu-
tion. And further to show that the nation as a whole was responsible
for the existence of the colored race in America, it must be recognized
that although the south was at that time somewhat of a maritime
people, no slave was ever brought to this country by a southern vessel,
and that " New England ship-owners practically monopolized the
traffic of slavery for a number of years/' 1 It is also found that
Massachusetts was the first colonial state (1641) that legalized slave
1 See " The True Civil War," pp. 28, 29, 30; and in this connection see also
" Origin of the Late War," by George Lunt, an eminent lawyer of Massachusetts.
