THE EDUCATION OF THE CO LOBE D RACE 455
actually at school. One half of the negroes get no schooling whatever
and one white child in five is left wholly illiterate.
In North Carolina the average citizen gets only 2.6 years' schooling.
In South Carolina the average citizen gets only 2.5 years' schooling.
In Alabama the average citizen gets only 2.4 years' schooling.
In the whole south the average citizen gets only three years' school-
ing. And what sort of schooling is it? The answer may be inferred
from what is found elsewhere in this discussion.
In North Carolina the average value of school property is $180
In South Carolina the average value of school property is 175
In Georgia the average value of school property is 523
In Alabama the average value of school property is 512
The average monthly salary of a teacher in North Carolina is $23.36
The average monthly salary of a teacher in South Carolina is 23.20
The average monthly salary of a teacher in Georgia is 27.00
The average monthly salary of a teacher in Alabama is 27.50
The schools of North Carolina are open on an average of 70.8 days per year.
The schools of South Carolina are open on an average of 88.4 days per year.
The schools of Georgia are open on an average of 112.0 days per year.
The average expenditure per pupil in average attendance is $4.54 per annum
in North Carolina.
The average expenditure per pupil in average attendance is $4.44 per annum
in South Carolina.
The average expenditure per pupil in average attendance is $6.64 per annum
in Georgia.
The average expenditure per pupil in average attendance is $4.50 per annum
in Alabama.
In other words, in these states in schoolhouses costing an average of $276
each, under teachers receiving an average salary of $25 per month, we have
been giving the children in actual attendance five cents' worth of education a
day for 87 days only in the year. 4
These figures, compared with those indicating like expenditures in
the other states of the union, show that the expenditures in those states
are from four to six times as great as in the south.
Mr. Geo. S. Dickinson of New Haven, Conn., one of the best in-
formed students of southern conditions, 5 says :
There is no end of bounty bestowed on institutions for the common people
in the northern cities. Why, as an American, should I be more interested in
the children of Boston or of New Haven than in those of the Carolinas and
Georgia? Who are the children of Boston? Sixty-seven per cent, of them are
of parentage from beyond the seas. Eighty per cent, of the children of New
York are of such parentage, and the story is the same for the other great cities
— Cleveland, Chicago, San Francisco. More than three quarters of their people
are of foreign antecedents: Irish, Germans, French, Italians, Hungarians, Poles,
Armenians, Chinese, Russians, etc.
* Chas. W. Dabney, loc. cit.
8 Cf. also statistics given by him in Chap. XVIII. of Vol. I. of the Report
of the U. S. Commissioner of Education for 1902 and also the Southern Work-
man, January, 1903.
