458 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
tions may be made for these states as are found necessary after the
proposed system of education has been put into operation in the states
where the great masses of negro population are found. Counting Mary-
land, there are practically 500,000 square miles of this country that
are densely populated with colored people.
One schoolhouse for each sixteen square miles would make the
average distance about a mile that each child would have to walk. In
no case would this distance be as great as three miles. This is seen by
forming a square, each side being four miles, and by placing the
school house in the center of the square. These buildings, however,
may be placed nearer together or farther apart according to the density
of the population.
A schoolhouse with grounds may be secured for $500, which property
may be kept in repairs with funds mentioned later. Teachers in most
localities may be readily secured at $40 per month and six days per
week, so that the expenditure below may be regarded as quite suffi-
cient.
A teacher at $50 per month for ten months — $500. His time may
be divided between two schoolhouses, he teaching five months at the
one and five months at the other, or he might teach alternate days at
either schoolhouse, in which case he should live about halfway between
the two. In the latter case, which seems preferable, the pupil has less
time to forget what he has already acquired and besides he may be of
considerable service to his parents. 8
Beginning at eight years old, the child should be required to attend
school six years. If it attends school a longer time, payments for the
same should be made. This money may be used to help in part to
keep the schoolhouse in repairs.
About thirty thousand schoolhouses are necessary for the above
area of territory. These houses would require an initial expenditure of
$15,000,000. All of this sum need not be used at one time, as it will
take several years for the consummation of the system and in the
building of the houses. The yearly expenditure for the thirty thousand
teachers, fuel, etc., at say $250 per house is $7,500,000. This is about
the cost of jpne battleship.
In the six years of primary study these children may learn good
behavior, discipline, reading, writing, arithmetic, geography, spelling,
elementary grammar, elementary history, something about farming.
The average pupil in the primary school will for ages to come be more
adapted to working the land than for any other occupation. The ex-
8 A successful system is in operation in the University of Cincinnati among
some of the engineering students, who spend alternate weeks at the university
and at their employers' factories. These students are thus able in six years to
earn their way through the engineering course.
