THE EDUCATION OF TEE COLORED RACE 459
ceptional scholar (and there will be about one in thirty) should be
given an opportunity at the higher schools of becoming teachers,
preachers, doctors, shoemakers, wheelwrights, etc. They should also
be fitted to fill the better positions in manufacturing and mining
establishments. Before entering these higher institutions the pupil
should be made to pass satisfactory matriculation examinations and it
should be shown that he is of good character.
Such schools as Hampton and Tuskegee may be established in each
of the southern states. In them industrial education should be espe-
cially emphasized, and the training of preachers, doctors and teachers
(who wish to teach in the lower schools) should be provided for. These
schools will be for the colored people what the universities are for
the white people. They may be supported through taxation of the
negro property and through the munificence of philanthropists in-
terested in the colored race. About one fifteenth of the school money
expended now is derived from taxation of negro property. Whether
there is a necessity of having colored lawyers for the colored race is a
question. There are already institutions in which an exceptionally
clever negro may get a legal education. Any legal question may be
settled by white lawyers, who for a long time to come will be more
skilful in law and consequently the better able to represent their clients
in the courts than colored lawyers. Further, I believe the negroes
prefer to have their disputes settled by white people. But the teaching
of the colored children and in most cases the care of the sick will
be left to the colored people.
Whatever education a colored man possesses has been given to him
by the people of the south ; the present system for his education is due
to the people among whom he lives, and this guiding influence must
of necessity always be felt.
As shown below, the south is now spending annually at least $4,000,-
000 towards the education of the colored race. This money has been
spent through the direction of the superintendent of public instruction
in each state, and its disbursement has been supervised by the super-
intendents of common schools in the various counties and cities. These
men have almost invariably exercised their duties with zeal and
honesty. It seems desirable that these officers have charge of the funds
for the education of both white and colored children as hitherto has
been the case. Their salaries may be somewhat increased so that
additional help in the way of secretaries and stenographers may be
procured. Thus the expenses for the management of the fund for
the education of colored children will be a minimum. The state super-
intendent should make annual reports of all moneys expended to some
head man at Washington.
The office of the Commissioner of Education at Washington has
