4 6o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
become of such importance that it is an urgent necessity that the head
of this office be given a higher rank and be afforded better means of
carrying on the great work for which he is responsible. Practically
all the great nations of the world have for the discharge of such duties
Departments of Education,, presided over by officers that in this
country would correspond to the Secretary of Education. At no dis-
tant day, the necessity of such an officer must be realized by our gov-
ernment. This officer would have the general management of all such
funds as those proposed for the education of the colored race.
It does not seem either wise or politic that an ample appropriation
once made should ever be increased. As the colored race increases, its
capability of earning money should likewise increase, and consequently
the taxes on its property should enhance yearly. The corresponding
fund available for schools from these taxes should offset the growth of
the race. It would be thus effected that the negro race is not entirely
dependent upon the federal government for its education, but only in
part, this part being relatively less the greater the growth of the pop-
ulation and the corresponding capability of earning money. Thus by
the help of the federal government, the negro is given a good chance
of making for himself a place in the nation and at the same time he
is made dependent upon himself. In the ultimate growth of the nation
no people can be expected to assume a responsibility of the education
of another people. At the same time the stronger should for a period,
say fifty years, lend a helping hand towards the upbuilding of the
weaker.
Just as the religion of the white man has been disseminated among
the colored people through negro preachers, so must all principles of
morality, culture, ethics, etc., be derived from the white race and trans-
mitted to the lower race through the agents of that race. The negro
race must be developed along its own line by its own agents as a dis-
tinct race and as a separate people. Just as they have their own
preachers, they must have their own doctors, their own teachers, etc.
These leaders of the people must of necessity gain most of their in-
formation from the white man. As all learning is handed down to
those in the lower strata of society by those who have reached the
higher levels of efficiency, so must the negro ever continue to learn
from the white man. That it is the duty as well as the policy of the
white man to lend a helping hand no one will deny.
With remarkable foresight, the framers of most of the recent con-
stitutions of the southern states have seen that it was equally a part
of justice and to the interest of both races that a representation in the
government of political affairs be based not only upon a property quali-
fication, but also upon an educational qualification; and so through
legislation they have effected that the upper section of the colored race
