32 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Probably the contribution of evolutionary theory to our knowledge of
mind that bulks larger than any other is the discovery, growing clearer
with each year of study, that the human mind also is fundamentally
just a group of activities, greatly complicated, mysteriously unified,
wonderfully resourceful, marvelously progressive, self-conscious, more-
over, and free, and yet at bottom a system of activities, no more.
Activity, doing, will, that is the core of us, the rest, sensation, feeling,
idea, they are but the effects of our own or of other activities. A spirit,
in etymology, is just the active principle of a liquid : and activity is
what distinguishes the quick from the dead. Even superman, in his
ascending excellence, we must believe to be but vaster and more skill-
fully and perfectly ordered activity. And man is distinguished from
his humbler brethren, and higher animals from lower, by what they can
do. Man hesitates, chooses, plans, contrives and fits things together
in fulfilment of his purposes. As we descend the animal scale these
activities first diminish, and then disappear, dull routine taking their
place. But this implies, not a substitute for activity, merely its sim-
plification. And the same decrease of complexity obtains as the transi-
tion is made from animals to plants, and from plants to inorganic
matter. This no doubt seems a hard saying to those who have not
followed discoveries and discussions in this field ; but to those who have
it is little more than a commonplace. We do not yet know how inor-
ganic activities become systematized into organic, or what determines
their form as vegetable or animal. The cell still keeps its secret. But
that inorganic is transformed into organic is plainly shown by every
breath taken, every meal eaten, and every development of an embryo to
maturity, as the reverse transition is shown by all waste processes,
including death itself. As men organize themselves into states, and
lesser associations, which have organs and modes of activity which no
man has, so, it would seem, molecules organize themselves into cells,
and cells into living beings, which differ even more in structure and
function from the units composing them.
In substance, then, comparative psychology teaches that a man is a
complicated system of activities, sensitive and conscious; an animal a
less complicated system, sensitive and conscious; a plant a still less
complicated system, sensitive, but only dimly conscious, if at all so;
and organic matter, the simplest system of activities we know, whether
either sensitive or conscious we are not yet prepared to say. So much
is quite plain. But all is not said. It is also plain that inorganic, or
so-called dead matter, has, in the way of evolution, developed into
organic or living matter, and that matter is being daily transformed
into living, yes, into conscious, beings, and living and even conscious
beings are being daily transformed back into mere matter. These
plain facts of themselves throw not a little light on the nature of
matter. For they show that the constitution and the nature of matter
