PSYCHOLOGY AND TESTIMONY 465
SHOULD PSYCHOLOGY SUPERVISE TESTIMONY?
BY FABIAX FRANKLIN"
PROFESSOR MIINSTERBERG, of Harvard University, who, by
his combination of scientific eminence, active interest in public
questions, and rare literary skill, occupies a unique position among
those who discuss large educational and social problems, recently made
a plea, 1 which attracted wide attention, for the introduction of the
tests of experimental psychology as a means of judging of the value
of evidence given in courts of justice. To show that a deplorably
large part of the evidence given in courts and elsewhere is untrust-
worthy for one reason or another would have been a work of super-
erogation; nothing is better established in the minds of all who have
to deal with the subject. But, while everybody is familiar both with
the phenomena of lying and loose statement, and with the fantastic
tricks played by our treacherous memories, it is probable that most
persons are unaware of the trouble that lurks in malobservation ; and it
is solely with the errors which arise from this source that Professor
Miinsterberg deals in the argument to which we have referred. He
presents an appalling array of divergences in the outcome of ordinary
observation of the same things by one hundred members of his class at
Harvard; and he draws from his results the double conclusion that
human observation is incomparably more fallible than is generally sup-
posed, and that courts of justice can, and therefore ought to, test the
value of the testimony of witnesses by subjecting them to the examina-
tion of the expert psychologist. If Professor Miinsterberg is right in
these conclusions, they are certainly deserving of the earnest attention
both of psychologists and of lawyers; but, while his argument drew
forth wide-spread comment, it does not seem to have been anywhere
discussed with any thoroughness. And it is the purpose of this paper
to show that neither the sweeping pessimism as to human reliability
which would result from accepting the record given by Professor
Miinsterberg at its face value, nor the practical plea that he urges for
the classifying of witnesses by the methods of experimental psychology,
is justified upon careful examination of his argument.
To pass in review each one of the tests detailed by Professor
Miinsterberg, and attempt to measure the degree in which the whole
array falls short of establishing the contentions which it is designed to
support, would require the quotation of almost the whole of the article,
1 McC 'lure' 's Magazine, July, 1907.
vol. lxxii. — 30.
