466 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
tedious, and would demand a greater amount of space than this
magazine could be expected to furnish. The nature of the objections
to the article can, however, be made clear without so comprehensive and
minute an examination.
Let us, in the first place, take a single one of the tests, that relating
to the size of the moon :
My next question did not refer to immediate perception, but to a memory
image so vividly at every one's disposal that I assumed a right to substitute it
directly for a perception. I asked my men to compare the size of the full
moon to that of some object held in the hand at arm's length. I explained the
question carefully, and said that they were to describe an object just large
enough, when seen at arm's length, to cover the whole full moon.
The answers ranged from a carriage-wheel to a pea; and on this result
Professor Miinsterberg makes a number of interesting comments.
" To the surprise of my readers, perhaps," he says, " it may be added
that the only man who was right was the one who compared it to a
pea. It is most probable that the results would not have been different
if I had asked the question on a moonlight night with the full moon
overhead. The substitution of the memory image for the immediate
perception can hardly have impaired the correctness of the judgments.
If in any court the size of a distant object were to be given by witnesses,
and one man declared it as large as a pea and the second as large as a
lemon-pie and the third ten feet in diameter, it would hardly be fair to
form an objective judgment till the psychologist had found out what
kind of a mind was producing that estimate." And elsewhere he refers
to the fact that his students do not know " whether the moon is small
as a pea or large as a man."
Now, this experiment, damaging as Professor Miinsterberg con-
siders it, has, in point of fact, no bearing whatever upon the perceptive
powers of his students. If they understood perfectly what his question
meant, and shaped their answers accordingly, those answers were the
outcome of some kind of conscious mental calculation or experimenta-
tion (unless, indeed, we suppose that some of the students, for example
the one with the pea, had made the explicit experiment of the obscura-
tion of the moon by an object held at arm's length, and remembered
the result). There is absolutely nothing in our direct perception of
the moon to give us any idea of the angle it subtends, or of the size of
an object which, held at arm's length, would " just cover it." Pro-
fessor Miinsterberg is, indeed, in this dilemma : either he wants to know
what the intuitive feeling of a given man is as to the apparent size of
the moon when he looks up at it, or he wants to know just what he
explicitly declared — what object, held at arm's length, would cover it
from the eye (i. e., one eye). If he means the former, the intuitive
feeling, each person is the final arbiter of the question — he is either
lying or telling the truth; the moon either does or does not seem to
