PSYCHOLOGY AND TESTIMONY a^7
and a commentary of even greater length. Such a procedure would be
him to be of the size of a plate, a cart-wheel, or what not, and there's
an end. His answer can not be challenged on the score of malobserva-
tion; one may impeach either his memory or his truthfulness, but not
the accuracy of his observation or even of his judgment. In other
words, if the man misunderstood the question, and was really answering
this other: "How large does the moon instinctively appear to you?" ;
his answer, " as large as a carriage-wheel " or " as large as a one-cent
piece," is better than any that either the psychologist or the astronomer
can supply for him. If, on the other hand, the student understood the
question as it was " carefully explained " by Professor Miinsterberg,
he absolutely deceived himself if he imagined that his " perception "
of the moon's size had anything to do with the answer. We do not, by
direct perception, actually estimate the angle subtended by an object,
nor do we perform any equivalent operation. For any object within a
small distance, we automatically make absolutely complete compensa-
tion for the diminishing angle under which it is seen as the distance
increases; a plate, a silver dollar or a pea, held at arm's length, tools
precisely as large as it does when held at the distance of a foot — we
have no consciousness whatsoever that the angle it subtends is only one
third as great in the former case as in the latter. The moon subtends
an angle of half a degree; a large pea at arm's length does the same;
a large pin's head, perhaps, does the same a foot away from the eye.
But the keenest observer in the world is no more aware of these things
by direct perception than is the most ill-constructed member of Pro-
fessor Miinsterberg's class. Our automatic compensation for dimin-
ishing angle becomes very imperfect both at great distances and in
unusual circumstances — such as looking down upon the floor of the
rotunda of the capitol from the gallery at the top; and for celestial
objects, like the sun and the moon, it of course falls infinitely short of
requirements. We make some compensation, though immeasurably
less than what is required; and the well-known fact that people differ
enormously in their feeling of the apparent size of the moon merely
shows that the amount of this compensation (which, in any event, has
no simple relation to the actual size and actual distance of the moon)
is very different with different persons. But, strangely enough. Pro-
fessor Miinsterberg seems to lose sight of all these facts, and actually
to regard the question of the apparent size of the moon as identical
with the mathematical question of the angle that it subtends
— or, what comes to the same thing, the size of an object which, held
at arm's length, will " just cover " it. For while he " carefully ex-
plained " the question as meaning the latter thing, his comments relate
to the former; and, in particular, in the closing remarks of his article,
he speaks of his students not knowing whether " the moon is small as
a pea or large as a man." By "is," he of course means "seems";
