4 r >8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
but this is a radically different question from the one specifically stated
at the outset. Thus the master himself clearly slipped from one mean-
ing to the other; and we may be quite certain that some of the answers
of his students were intended for one interpretation of the question
and some for the other. I feel quite sure that no member of Professor
Miinsterberg's class really thinks, when he looks up at the full moon,
that a solid disk of the size of a carriage-wheel held up at arm's length
would just suffice to shut it out from his view. He knows very well
that that would shut out a considerable part of the whole sky; and the
man who gave " a carriage-wheel " as his answer was almost certainly
speaking of how large the moon seemed to him and not of the other
question.
This example, from its peculiar nature, has required much space
for its discussion; and I hasten to add that, in singling it out, I have
put Professor Miinsterberg's worst foot foremost. In no other of the
instances is there involved, as in this one, a fundamental error. Yet a
defect which, in this instance, reached the proportions of downright
error is in some measure present in nearly the whole of the article.
The defect I have reference to is a failure adequately to discriminate
between conscious inference or conjecture, on the one hand, and the
immediate dictum of sense-perception, on the other. I am perfectly
aware — and it is a commonplace not only of books on logic and psy-
chology, but also of the ordinary text-books of law — that no sharp line
can be drawn between these two things. In almost every judgment,
however immediately it seems to be given by the impressions made on
our senses, an element of inference, conscious or unconscious, enters.
Yet there is a vast difference between different cases; and, furthermore,
a difference which is distinctly recognized by the wayfaring man.
Professor Miinsterberg begins his article by citing contradictions of
testimony as to whether a road was dry or muddy and as to whether a
man had a beard or not; but the staple of his article relates to esti-
mates of the number of spots irregularly scattered on a sheet of card-
board, the rapidity with which a pointer moves around a circular dial,
the interval of time between two clicks, and the like. Nowhere does
he intimate that there is any vital difference between questions like
these and questions of the simpler kind with which he starts out. But
when a man is asked how many people he sees in a hall or how fast a
train is moving, he knows perfectly well that the validity of his answer
is of a wholly different nature from that which attaches to his state-
ment as to whether the road in front of him is wet or dry, or whether
a man he is looking at has or has not a beard. In the former cases,
he is guessing or consciously estimating, and knows he is guessing or
consciously estimating ; but when he says that the road in front of him
is wet or that the man he is looking at has a beard, he is making an
assertion in which he places implicit reliance as the direct result of the
