PSYCHOLOGY ANR TESTIMONY 469
evidence of his senses. Most of the examples dwelt upon by Professor
Miinsterberg are simply proofs of the want of skill of his students —
and of most persons — in making certain kinds of numerical estimates.
This is interesting, and even important; but it has no such range of
bearing as Professor Miinsterberg seems to impute to it. And unfor-
tunately in the only instances in which the verdict called for turned
on an immediate sense-perception, the subject-matter chosen was of
such a character as greatly to reduce the significance of the result. To
ask whether a bit of blue paper or a bit of gray paper is the darker is
to ask a technical question; the plain man simply can not put himself
into the proper attitude of mind to dissociate the question of color from
that of illumination, and the most natural conclusion from the failure
of a number of Professor Miinsterberg's students to answer the ques-
tion correctly is that they had not succeeded in training themselves to
that special task. The other case of direct perception is open to a
similar objection. Professor Miinsterberg " asked the class to describe
fhe sound they would hear and to say from what source it came. The
sound which I produced was the tone of a large tuning-fork, which I
struck with a little hammer below the desk, invisibly to the students.
Among the hundred students whose papers I examined for this record
were exactly two who recognized it as a tuning-fork tone. All the
other judgments took it for a bell, or an organ-pipe, or a muffled gong,
or a brazen instrument, or a horn, or a 'cello string, or a violin, and
so on. Or they compared it with as different noises as the growl of a
lion, a steam whistle, a fog-horn, a fly-wheel, a human song, and what
not." What does this show but that to the habitual thoughts of a great
majority of the men the tuning-fork is highly unfamiliar? Otherwise
nothing but diabolical perversity could have caused 98 out of 100 of
the men to declare that some other instrument had produced the sound.
When driven to a guess as "to what some highly unfamiliar object is
whose existence is announced to one of our senses, we do the best we
can under the circumstances; but this is something quite different from
what we habitually do under ordinary circumstances. I know of a
teacher who, whenever his entire class did phenomenally badly in
answering a particular examination question, inferred not that the class
was stupid, but that the question was an unfair one.
While, then, nothing can be more certain than that great clangers
lurk in the possibilities of malobservation, I think I have shown that
the case of the average man is by no means as bad as an uncritical
acceptance of the specific charges against him so formidably presented
by Professor Miinsterberg would lead one to believe. One of them falls
down completely; most of the others relate to matters that are uni-
versally recognized to be matters of estimate or conjecture, and yet are
used by Professor Miinsterberg as though bearing with full force on
the question of the reliability of ordinary simple observation ; and even
