47o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the two remaining ones have peculiarities which greatly restrict their
significance. Indeed, a moment's reflection would be sufficient to con-
vince one that things are not as bad as they look through the profes-
sional glasses of Professor Munsterberg. If our immediate perception
of the things around us, or even our judgment of times, distances,
velocities, etc., were as desperately deficient as the whole tenor of Pro-
fessor Miinsterberg's article implies, the world could not be carried on
as it is. Business transactions take place every day by the hundred
million' which turn on the unhesitating recognition of a rarely seen
face, and the number of cases of mistaken identity is infinitesimal in
comparison; we cross in front of trolley-cars and automobiles and
bicycles millions of times just near enough to escape being run over,
to once that we actually get run over. To translate that fine judgment
of time and distance which brings us safely across Broadway into terms
of feet and seconds is a task that most of us perform extremely ill;
but this is a particular matter affecting the value of testimony of a
special kind, and not touching the general reliability of human observa-
tion. This latter is itself undoubtedly highly impeachable; but Pro-
fessor Miinsterberg's tests add little, if anything, to the impeachment.
But there is another side to Professor Miinsterberg's article. It is
designed not only to show how frequently observation is untrustworthy,
but also to advocate a method of classification of witnesses by which the
trustworthy ones may be separated from the untrustworthy. " The
progress of experimental psychology," he says, " makes it an absurd
incongruity that the state should devote its fullest energy to the clear-
ing up of all the physical happenings, but should never ask the psy-
chological expert to determine the value of that factor which becomes
most influential — the mind of the witness." That an appeal to psy-
chological experts may in certain special cases be necessary or desirable
I do not at all wish to deny; but it seems very clear to me, from the
evidence of Professor Miinsterberg's own paper, that any attempt to
introduce psychological tests as a regular part of the machinery of
courts in their dealings with witnesses would be utterly futile. It is
conceivable that psychological experts who combined the highest scien-
tific attainments with the most consummate common sense, and the
greatest precision of reasoning with the utmost practical caution and
shrewdness, could, by subjecting a witness to a sufficiently compre-
hensive examination, arrive at an authoritative determination of the
weight that ought to be attached to his account of the facts which he
alleges to have come under his observation ; but nothing short of this
would suffice. The difficulties in the way are many and great; but
first and foremost among them comes the distinction between a labora-
tory experiment and the involuntary or unregulated experience of real
life. Certainly accuracy of observation, whatever other elements it
turns on, turns very largely on the question of attention or interest;
