PSYCHOLOGY AND TESTIMONY 471
and the state of the attention or interest of the observer is wholly dif-
ferent in the ordinary circumstances of life from what it is when the
observer is being tested by the psychologist. It is entirely possible
that when fifty little black squares irregularly pasted on a large sheet
of white cardboard are exposed for five seconds to the gaze of A and
B, A will make a much better guess than B at their number, owing to
his ability to concentrate his attention or to make a swift calculation;
and yet that if A and B were in a hall with fifty people in it, B would
instinctively have a much better idea of the number of people in it
than A, owing to a habit of being interested in the scenes of which he
is a natural part and in their significance. Again A, fixing his atten-
tion on the end of a black pointer moving over the edge of a white
dial, may be vastly better able than B to get that ratio of the con-
sciously observed space to the consciously observed time which is the
velocity Professor Miinsterberg desired his students to measure in one
of his experiments; and yet if A and B were walking casually along
the street, B might be an incomparably more reliable witness on the
question whether an automobile was or was not exceeding the legal
speed limit. And this matter of the different distribution of interest
in different circumstances is only one of a vast number of elements
■which go to making the psychologist's test highly precarious. You
must catch a man " in his habit as he lives," you must follow him into
all sorts of situations under all sorts of circumstances, internal and
external, before you can decide what value to attach to his statement
as to the facts that come into his ordinary experience of daily life.
The man who may be too dull-witted to understand the psychologist's
question, too lethargic to make a decent observation of what is put
before him by his examiner, or too " rattled " to state correctly the
result of that observation, may be a man who, as he goes about his
work or chats with his fellows, misses nothing of the ordinary human
occurrences that take place around him. And, on the other hand, the
man of quick intelligence and keen activity who, upon demand, can
bring all his faculties to bear upon a subject on which he is challenged
to make a creditable report may, not only in spite of having this tem-
perament, but actually because of it, be the very man who habitually
takes extremely imperfect notice of the visible and audible things that
are going on around him all the time and that have for him no
significance.
Difficulties like these — I do not say insuperable difficulties, but
certainly difficulties that offer enormous resistance to the investigator —
are inherent in the subject. But over and above these inherent diffi-
culties are those which attach not so much to the investigation as to the
investigator. As a practical proposition, Professor Miinsterberg's
project must contemplate the employment of the psycbological expert
n« an expert, strictly speaking. His report on the capacity of a witness
