WHAT IS MATTER? 35
many of the lines in the spectra of hydrogen, calcium, iron and other
elements are missing when the light from very hot stars is hroken up.
For the inference is right at hand, as Professor Bigelow says, " that at
extreme, at stellar, temperatures our elements themselves arc disso-
ciated into simpler substances." 4
Further evidence against the atom resulted from Professor J. J.
Thomson's studies of cathode rays, strict reasoning from his careful
experiments demonstrating them to be swarms of minute particles, or
corpuscles, as he called them, moving with velocities approaching that
of light, and each weighing about one eight-hundredth as much as a
hydrogen atom. These corpuscles are not merely ordinary atoms of
smaller bulk, for they do not obey chemical laws, it having been ascer-
tained, among other things, that the absorption of them by different
substances is simply proportional to the latter's specific gravity, and
quite independent of their chemical properties.
And recently the case against the atom, together with Thomson's
ingenious demonstration of his corpuscles, has secured further experi-
mental foundation, thanks chiefly to the labors of Becquerel, the
Curies, and Eutherford and Soddy, on radioactive substances. These
wonderful experiments, at once rapid and reliable, have shown that
radioactivity consists in the throwing off of two orders of substances:
first, atoms; second, rays or corpuscles of various kinds. But the re-
markable fact in the situation is that while the atomic weight of the
original substances, radium, thorium and uranium, is two hundred or
more, the weight of the atoms thrown off is nearer one or two. That (
is, radium breaks up into, probably, helium, thrown off, and the re-
siduum after the emission, which has a different atomic weight from
either and is otherwise shown to be a distinct element. 5 The dream
of the alchemist has come true and elements are transmuted before our
eyes. Science has achieved an unsurpassed triumph ! But, as far as
helping us to fortune goes, the dream might as well have remained a
dream.
As a result of these discoveries, and many others similar, in general,
in significance, it has come to be admitted that Dalton's atoms are very
complex bodies, each made up of a large number of corpuscles, which
are related to one another very much as are the members of a planetary
system, though in size corpuscles are unimaginably minute, and the
number of them constituting any atom is very much larger than the
number of members in any planetary system with which we are
acquainted.
4 Popular Science Monthly, July, 1900.
5 In a communication to Nature, July 18, copied in Science, August 2, Sir
Wm. Ramsay states that copper, in the sulphate, acted upon by the emanation
from radium, was " ' degraded ' to the first member of its group, namely,
lithium." The substance of the quotations that appear later in this paper
could be found repeated many times in the writings of Thomson, Ramsay and
others of the new school at home and abroad.
