THE EARTH AND THE SUN 495
scale would give it a value of 20. Again Jensen reckons 1855 at 17,
while Sayles put it in his lowest class which would give it a value of
only 7. The next year, on the other hand, is reckoned by Jensen at
only 4, and by Sayles at 14. Other years, such as 1873-4-5-6 and 22
others are given values of from 1 to 16 by Jensen, but are not men-
tioned by Sayles; while the latter gives an open circle to 1803, 1805,
1853, 1861, 1863 and 1885, although Jensen does not assign them a
value of even one. Other discrepancies might be mentioned. They
are natural, indeed unavoidable, in a subject where there is so much
opportunity for the personal equation, as well as for diverse authorities.
A man's estimate of the severity of an earthquake or eruption is sure
to depend largely upon the vividness of the account which he happens
to read. Hence the great value of having two independent sets of
data compiled for different purposes by men living at the antipodes,
New England and New South Wales. The discrepancy in the two sets
of data is an advantage because the one supplements the other, and
because where the original sources of information are so diverse, the
harmonious result derived from averages is highly remarkable. It
can not be the result of chance.
Inspection of Fig. 1 shows that according to both Sayles and Jensen
periods of minimum sunspots are times of maximum seismic and vol-
canic activity; whereas at periods of maximum sunspots, telluric
activity almost ceases. There are certain glaring exceptions, such as
1883, or 1906 which does not appear in Fig. 1; but it should be noted
that in 1883 the sunspot maximum was only about two thirds as high
as the average. In order to estimate the true importance of such
exceptions, I have plotted the curves shown in Figs. 2-5, showing the
relative frequency and intensity of telluric activity in years of sun-
spot minima as compared with other years. Figs. 2 and 3 show the
frequency of years in which one or more notable earthquakes or erup-
tions — combined in the case of Sayles, separate in that of Jensen —
have occurred at the sun-spot minima and during the intervening years.
To illustrate concretely, it appears in Fig. 1 that out of fourteen years
of minima included in the period covered by the investigations of
Sayles, 11, or 79 per cent., have, according to him, been characterized
by notable earthquakes or eruptions. Out of the thirteen years im-
mediately preceding a minimum only 5, or 38 per cent., have had
noteworthy seismo-volcanic phenomena; out of those preceding a mini-
mum by two years, 6, or 46 per cent., and so on. Of course, the curve
soon comes to zero at either end, because, on an average, five or six years
before or after a minimum we come to a maximum separating one
wave of the sunspot curve from another. To illustrate again, 1867 was
a minimum year, and has a solid circle below the sun-spot curve and
