5 oo POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
For each of the eight periods of the sun-spot cycle, the percentage
of years of seismic and volcanic activity has been calculated from the
data of Fig. 1, as shown in the table at the end of this article, and has
been plotted in the frequency curves of Figs. 10 and 11. For Sayles, 13
complete sunspot cycles are available, and for Jensen, K). In the
same way the average intensity of the phenomena of the years of each
period has been calculated and plotted in Figs. 12 and 13. In order
to obtain the mean curve it is necessary to combine the six shown in
Figs. 10 to 13 into one. The first process is the combination of
Jensen's four curves into two which shall be comparable to the two of
Sayles. This is done in Figs. 11 and 15. In Fig. 14 the solid
line reproduces Sayles's line of Fig. 10 directly, while the dotted line
gives the mean between Jensen's two curves of Fig. 11. Thus we 'have
two mean seismo-volcanic frequency curves. In the same way, in Fig.
15 the solid line reproduces Fig. 12, and the dotted line gives the
mean of the two lines of Fig. 13 ; and we have two mean seismo-volcanic
intensity curves. In these curves, as in the others, percentages are
used, so that when diverse phenomena such as frequency and intensity
come to lie compared and averages computed, each receives the same
weight. In Fig. 16 the frequency curves of Sayles and Jensen shown
in Fig. 14 are combined into the solid line and the intensity curves of
Fig. 15 into the dotted line. In order to make the two curves com-
parable the maximum in each case has been reckoned as a hundred. As
a result of the combination of the data of our two authorities, the
personal equation is largely eliminated. It will be noticed that the
curves of Fig. 16 are much smoother than those of preceding figures.
This is especially true of the frequency curve where there is least lia-
bility to errors of judgment. Finally, in Fig. 17 the two curves of
Fig. 16 are combined into one, shown by the solid line. This represents
the net result of Sayles's data as to the combined seismic and volcanic
frequency and intensity of 13 complete sun-spot cycles, and of Jensen's
independent data as to the uncombined seismic and volcanic frequency
and intensity of 10 complete sun-spot cycles. The dotted line in
Fig. 17 is the mean sun-spot curve derived from Fig. 1, and calculated
and plotted in precisely the same manner as the six curves of Figs.
10 to 13 from which the mean seismo-volcanic curve is derived. For
the sake of convenience in comparison, the sun-spot curve has been
plotted with the minimum at the top. .
The resemblance between the mean sun-spot and mean seismo-
volcanic curves is extraordinary. The maximum of the one occurs
at the same time as the minimum of the other, and in both cases there
is a steady progress from maximum to minimum and back. If our
terrestrial data of earthquakes and volcanoes were as complete as our
