THE EARTH AND THE SUN 501
solar data of sun-spots, it is probable that the resemblance between the
two curves would he still closer. It may be that the occurience of
earthquakes and eruptions lags somewhat behind the change in the
number of sun-spots, but the lag is so slight that it does not appear
where the unit of measurement is a year, although it might if the
unit were a month. It seems to be impossible to avoid the conclusion
that the marked coincidence between telluric and solar activity indi-
cates a relation of some sort between the internal phenomena of the
earth and the sun.
As to what that relation may be we have as yet no clue. The best
that we can do is to speculate. It may be, perchance, that there is
some cosmic source of energy as yet unknown, which pulsates through
the universe causing both the earth and the sun to respond, each accord-
ing to its kind. Possibly changes in the amount or in the nature
of the energy emitted by the sun engender corresponding changes in the
earth in some manner as yet beyond our ken.
At the present time, as we have seen, changes in the sun appear
to he coincident with climatic and telluric changes in the earth. So
far as we can judge, the climatic changes, though on a very small scale,
seem to be of the same nature as the great climatic changes of the
various glacial periods of earlier geological times. The telluric
changes, also on a very small scale, are apparently of the same nature
as the great movements of the past by which mountains have been
formed and continents uplifted. It is notable that according to the
general opinion of geologists the three best known and most severe
climatic changes through which the earth has passed have been closely
associated with profound modifications of the earth's crust. The
glacial period which occurred just before the Cambrian period, far
back near the beginning of legible geological records, was followed by
a great change in the distribution of land and sea. Again after the
prolonged period of comparative stability known as the Paleozoic era
there ensued the severe Permian glaciation composed of many glacial
epochs separated by warm epochs. At approximately the same time, or
shortly afterward, there was a great uplifting of the continents and the
formation of mountain ranges such as the Appalachians. Finally the
last great glacial period, that of the Pleistocene and Pliocene was also
a time of great mountain-building, when the Alps, the Sierra Nevadas,
and the Himalayas received a marked uplift giving them their present
altitude.
It thus appears that in geologic history the greatest known climatic
changes have been closely associated with remarkable telluric changes.
It appears that at present climatic and telluric changes on a small scale
are coincident with or follow closely upon changes in the sun. The
question at once arises whether there may not have been a similar
