36 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
With atoms broken up into corpuscles, the problem of the nature
of matter shifts one step farther back, and becomes the problem of the
nature of these tiny bodies. Of this problem two rival solutions are
now in the field, offered respectively by the conservatives and the lib-
erals. The former, while admitting that a corpuscle is in the main an
electric charge, or field of electric force, maintain that the charge has
a nucleus or carrier at its core, which alone is entitled to be called
matter, in distinction from the electricity of the charge. Lenard, who
has given to corpuscles the significant name of dynamides, has calcu-
lated the diameter of this center of actual matter, so called, and found
it to be smaller than 0.3 of 10 -10 , i. e., smaller than three hundred
thousand millionths of a millimeter. This means that the actual
matter, so called, of a cubic meter of so heavy an element as platinum,
occupies at most one cubic millimeter of space, the rest of the cubic
meter being empty of Lenard's matter, and in fact entirely empty of
ponderable matter, but for the electric charges.
With so much of matter acknowledged to be electric force, which
to that extent successfully performs all the functions which used to be
attributed to matter, it is natural, say the liberals, to inquire whether
the whole of matter can not be reduced to force, whether matter is not
just force and nothing more. Many facts, they say, make this alto-
gether the more probable, indeed the only comprehensible, hypothesis.
In the first place, as Sir Oliver Lodge, who shares with Professor
J. J. Thomson — another hard-headed Englishman — the distinction of
leading the liberals, points out, " an electric charge possesses the most
fundamental and characteristic property of matter, viz., mass or in-
ertia." 6 If the charges occupying a given space are sufficient, and
their potential is sufficiently high, their combined mass will equal, and
exhaustively account for, the observed mass of the matter occupying the
space. This conclusion was theoretically established long since, and
has recently received experimental confirmation from laboratory studies
on radio-activity.
On these points, I quote the statement of Professor Bigelow, of the
University of Michigan:
Long before experimental evidence of the existence of corpuscles had been
obtained, it was demonstrated that an electrically charged body, moving with
high velocity, had an apparent mass greater than its true mass, because of the
electrical charge. The faster it moved the greater became its apparent mass or,
what comes to the same thing, assuming the electrical charge to remain un-
altered, the greater the velocity the less the mass of the body carrying the
charge needed to be to have always the same apparent mass. It was calculated
that when the velocity equalled that of light, it was not necessary to assume
tliat the body carrying the charge had any mass at all ! In other words, the
bit of electric charge moving with the velocity of light would have weight
and all the properties of mass.
This might be looked upon as an interesting mathematical abstraction, but
6 Popular Science Monthly, August, 1903.
