518 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the lymph hearts in amphibia; and also the results of his investiga-
tions on the coagulation of the blood.
Just and prompt recognition did not fail to follow in the train
of these excellent results, and the consequent advancement and im-
provement in his material condition made possible for him other
interesting journeys. In 1828 he visited Goethe. The spring of 1831
he spent in the Leiden Museum in Holland. In the autumn of 1831
we find him in Paris in the company of several of the great natural
scientists, as Humboldt, Cuvier, Milne Edwards and others who were
there at the time. One significant anecdote of this Paris trip should
not be omitted. When for the first time Miiller went to call upon
Dumereil, the latter was very busy, and, since he did not know whom
he had to meet, somewhat peevishly directed Miiller to the door.
Miiller, however, as he was almost thrust out, pushed in his head and
called out to Dumereil, " Yes, but the Coecilien in the young stages do
have gill openings in their necks ! ' : This thrust, it is needless to say,
worked as a magic word to gain a long and pleasant interview between
these two investigators.
In the year 1832 Eudolphi died at Berlin, thus leaving vacant the
foremost position in anatomy and physiology in Germany. Negotia-
tions were already in progress to secure as Kudolphi's successor Dr.
Tiedermann from Heidelberg; but at this point in the proceedings
Miiller determined upon a unique step. He sent to his old friend and
former benefactor, the Minister von Altenstein, copies of his works
together with a letter in which he (" believing that the importance of
the affair would furnish its own excuses ") brought himself prominently
into the proposition. He said, in part, that it was no more than
right that the first and highest position of the kind in Germany should
belong to the greatest among scholars; furthermore, that if this man
were not Johann Friedrick Meckel, then he believed himself to be the
foremost zoologist and physiologist in Germany.
This letter had results : the Minister von Altenstein at once ordered
Miiller's nomination; and on Easter, 1833, Miiller, not yet thirty_-
three years old, entered upon his duties as " professor ordinary of
anatomy, physiology and pathological anatomy, and director of the
Anatomical Museums " in the University of Berlin.
The first fruit of Miiller's residence in Berlin was the completion
of his " Handbook of Physiology," which he had begun long before he
left Bonn. Appearing in three parts, it was at last completed in 1840.
These volumes represented a piece of work unparalleled in the field of
physiological literature. The only work which could be compared
with it was Haller's " Elemental' Miiller's labors in preparation for
this work included an immeasurable number of single observations
with reference to the physiology of the voice, of speech, of hear-
ing, of nerve physiology, of teachings on the blood — all of these rest,
