WHAT IS MATTER? 37
without any practical application, if it were not for the fact that Kauffmann
determined the apparent masses of corpuscles shot out from a radium prepara-
tion at different velocities, and compared them with the masses calculated on
the basis that the whole of the mass was due to the electric charge. The
agreement between the observed and calculated values is so close that it leads
Thomson to say: "These results support the view that the ivhole mass of these
electrified particles arises from their charge."
Then the corpuscles are to be looked upon as nothing but bits of electric
charges. ... It is this view which has led to the introduction of the term
electron. . . . We have but to concede the logical sequence of this reasoning,
all based on experimental evidence . . . and we have a universe of energy in
which matter has no necessary part. 7
Facts as many and as significant as these, added to the reasoned
conclusions of philosophy and psychology, would seem adequate to
settle the controversy in favor of the dynamic theory of matter, were it
not that we are dealing with an idol of the tribe, far more difficult to
shatter than the golden calf. But more remains to be said. The
validity of a hypotbesis rests not only upon the facts that support it,
but also upon the ability it gives us to explain puzzles in fields adjacent
to its own. This makes it worth while to mention, though space will
not allow explanations in detail, that a number of knots in physical
theory, that before had to be cut or else left alone, can be handily
untied by the dynamic hypothesis. Professor Bigelow is again my
authority in the statements, that the theory explains the highly puz-
zling property of valence, and that " An electronic structure of the
atom furnishes a basis from which a plausible explanation of the refrac-
tion, polarization and rotation of the plane of polarized light may be
logically derived." 8 These explanations bulk large in the aggregate,
and the exclusive ability of the dynamic theory to make them adds
significantly to its credibility.
As an alternative to the dynamic theory, thus substantially sup-
ported, the conservatives have little to offer, indeed, in the last analysis,
nothing but a word. The " matter " they refuse to identify with force
shrinks down to John Locke's " something, I know not what," by which
a portion of the mass of bodies is to be accounted for. But, Sir Oliver
Lodge remarks, " it would be equally true to say unaccounted for.
The mass which is explicable electrically is to a considerable extent
understood, but the mass which is merely material (whatever that may
mean) is not understood at all." 9 " What is this matter which so
many insist we must assume? " Bigelow asks, and answers:
No man can define it otherwise than in terms of energy. . . . Starting with
any object and removing one by one its properties, indubitably forms of energy,
7 Popular Science Monthly, July, 1906. Instead of conceiving matter as
explained away, energy taking its place, I prefer to conceive of it as explained
as being energy and nothing else. This difference in terminology is unim-
portant, but might lead to confusion if not pointed out.
s hoc. cit.
9 hoc. cit.
