JOHANNES MULLEB 519
to a very great extent, upon Muller's own discoveries. The " Hand-
book of Physiology " was accepted with almost universal accord as the
most valuable treatise on general physiology that had appeared in the
long interval since the time of Haller. It is perhaps of interest to
observe that these two writers have much in common, for in both we
perceive the fundamental desire of placing the doctrine of physiology
upon a basis of fact. Anatomy, human and comparative, experiments
on animals, chemistry and physiological science in its various depart-
ments, are all called in to bear upon the investigation of the truths
of physiology. As one of his commentators has remarked, Muller in
this work, as in his others, takes nothing on trust; every statement,
whether matter of fact or of doctrine, is thoroughly tested; difficulties,
however perplexing, are never evaded or slurred over; defects, however
much they may deface the picture to be presented, are never disguised.
The result of each quest, whether success or failure, is honestly told
and there is no yielding to the temptation, so powerful with writers
of systems, " to round off a ragged subject with smooth plausibilities."
The influence of the " Handbook " was immense, and the judgment of
it appears to have been conditioned not alone by the physiological data
it contained, but also by the collected facts of importance to the medi-
cal profession.
With the completion of the " Handbook," Miiller's activity in this
particular line of work seems to have practically ended. From this
time on he engaged himself to a greater extent in the fields of com-
parative anatomy and zoology; and in these subjects, as also in his
physiology, Muller excelled both in the abundance of his observations
and in the wide range of his discoveries. In his work on the com-
parative anatomy of the myxinoid fishes, Muller lays down the mor-
phological plan of the vertebrates in their simplest form. The title
conveys but a faint notion of the scope of this work. Although it
treats chiefly of the anatomy of this particular family of fishes, it is
rich in new and original matter in which the structure is compared
with that of other families of fishes, and the facts sagaciously applied
to the elucidation of greater questions in animal morphology. Ee-
garding Miiller's study of the Echinoderms, we may quote from an
address by the president of the Eoyal Society of London :
Professor Muller early applied himself to the study of the structure and
economy of the Echinoderms. After describing in a special memoir the
anatomy of Pentacrinus, so interesting as a living representative of the extinct
Crinoidea, and publishing, in conjunction with M. Troschel, a systematic ar-
rangement and description of the Asteridea, he was at length happily led to
investigate the embryo life of this remarkable class of animals. The field of
inquiry upon which he entered had scarcely been trenched upon before, and he
has since made it almost wholly his own by persevering researches carried on
at the proper seasons of the last nine years, on the shores of the North Sea,
Mediterranean and Adriatic. In this way he investigated the larval conditions
of four out of the five orders of true Echinoderms, and has successfully sought
out and determined the commonplace followed in their development, amidst
