52o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
remarkable and unlooked-for deviations in the larval organization and habits
of genera even of the same order. His inquiries respecting these animals have
made us acquainted with the larval forms, with relations between the larva and
future being; and with modes of existence, such as nature has not yet been
found to present in any other part of the animal kingdom. Finally with the
light thus derived from the study of their development, Professor Miiller has
subjected the organization of the entire class of Echinoderms, both recent and
fossil, to a thorough revision, and has added much that was new, as well a3
cleared up much that was obscure in regard to their economy, structure and
homologies. It is to their researches, which occupy seven memoirs of the Royal
Academy of Sciences of Berlin, that more special reference is made in the award
of the medal.
It was not long after his arrival at Berlin that Miiller established
the Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologic Of this he continued the
publication until the time of his death. This journal, during the
period of its existence, formed a principal medium of publicity for
the labors of the leading physiologists of Germany; and the establish-
ment and continued superintendence of it by Miiller, in the midst of
other laborious employments, must be regarded as an important service
rendered to science.
About this time, independent of Miiller, his pupil Schwann, fol-
lowing apparently in the footsteps of Schleiden, made the discovery
that the animal organism, just as the plant organism, was composed
of elementary cells. Miiller appears to have been the first to recognize
the great significance of this discovery. He immediately employed the
new fact for the explanation of certain disease phenomena and clearly
pointed out the agreement between tumors and pathological and em-
bryological development. His excellent work on the finer structure
of morbid tumors signifies the beginning of all microscopical investi-
gation in pathological anatomy, and here we see the fountain-head
of that stimulus which, brought to bear upon the young investigator
Virchow, gave rise to that well-known and comprehensive work on
" Cellular Pathology."
Concerning the other events of Muller's life, during the Berlin
period, it takes little time to relate. The routine work in the Berlin
Anatomical Museum was interrupted only by the scientific expeditions
which the desired investigation of the sea fauna afforded. The East
and North Sea, Sweden, Norway, the coast of the Adriatic and Medi-
terranean, from Triest to Messina and Marseilles, formed the territory
of Muller's scientific explorations. On one of these trips, in 1855,
Miiller experienced a serious danger. He was returning with two
pupils from a journey to the coast of Norway, when at night the
steamer Norge on which he sailed was rammed by another and speedily
sank. Nearly fifty people lost their lives; and among them one of
Muller's young companions. In a letter to a friend in England, in
which Miiller gives an account of the disaster, he says that upon
finding himself in the water at first he kept himself up by swimming.
But having his clothes on, he soon became exhausted and would have
