JOHANNES MULLER 521
perished had he not caught hold of a ship's ladder which was floating
by. For a long time he held on, and had nearly given up all hope
of assistance- when he was picked up by a boat from the other vessel.
His remaining companion, Dr. Schneider, saved himself in a similar
way. This event seems to have had a deep effect upon Miiller, and
although he still resorted to the seaside, ever afterwards he dreaded to
trust himself on shipboard.
When, for a second time, Miiller was chosen director of the Berlin
Museum, it was certainly most unfortunate that his directorship fell
in that memorable year of the revolution, 1848. Although Miiller felt
himself to be truly German, he was apparently no more of a politician
than Goethe. He could experience no sympathy for the democratic
rashness which on all sides of him was now being manifested. It was
a time of civil commotion when political agitation distracted the whole
academic being, and both students and professors were deserting the
laboratory and lecture room to equip themselves as soldiers of the
revolution. Miiller, whose quick spirit had led him, in the olden days
of the Student Alliance, to take so active a part in the threatened
political eruption, had become a sober conservative. His situation was
now one of difficulty, and not without peril. He strove manfully to
maintain authority, and even those who took a different view of passing
events paid willing tribute to his honesty of purpose and to the per-
sonal courage he displayed in the most trying circumstances when
the university buildings had become the center of the intense revolu-
tionary movement. Miiller naturally feared the destruction of the
priceless treasures of his collection. Regarding the state of his mind
we can obtain some conception from the words of his distinguished
scholar, Rudolph Virchow, who upon Muller's own request became his
follower as professor of anatomy and physiology at Berlin University.
Regarding these days of the revolution, Virchow has written as follows :
He trembled for the safety of the university, for whose treasures he felt
himself to be personally responsible. Day and night he remained at the museum,
ever on guard. He tore down agitating placards. He ventured with personal
danger among the students. On the day of the great citizens' parade, with his
own hand he seized away the black banner which was stretched across the bal-
cony of the university building. But the movement more and more escaped the
authority of the academic jurisdiction. In the teaching body of the university
grew the voicing of disharmony. The professors and the private lecturers made
diligent efforts to be heard and some of them (appointed as a committee, to
which I also belonged) argued the matter with the director and the senate in a
very unpleasant conversation.
Thus it is apparent that Miiller was asked in the most kindly
spirit to give up, at least temporarily, the position as director; for
Virchow continues:
Thus all agreed, in order to relieve the at least exposed position of the
director, to a painful duty; and it was an actual deliverance when, at the
closing of the university year, he could give into other hands the office which
he had taken upon himself.
This was, perhaps, the most unfortunate directorship since the
