JOHANNES MULLER 525
Spallauzani, Treviranus and others were dealing what we may call
only the first of a long series of death Mows to the hydra-headed
theory of spontaneous generation, which was not eventually disposed
of until the excellent work of Pasteur, over half a century later, and
even now is often found lingering in popular scientific lore.
A consideration of these foregoing facts demonstrates to us that
the greater number of these exact researches had been carried on in
France and England. When now we turn with special interest to Ger-
many, we find that her scientific thought had been fermenting in that
powerful intellectual narcotic, the Naturphilosophie, which, under the
great influence of Hegel at Heidelberg and Berlin, was stupefying
every branch of accurate scientific research throughout Germany. Of
the tendency of this movement to avoid the deductive method of
research and to build up a conception of nature upon theoretical and
speculative conclusions, we shall speak further. For the present, how-
ever, having gained some understanding of the condition of natural
science, especially physiology, previous to the period of Muller's
greatest activity, let us now consider more in detail Miiller's relation
to these movements, philosophical and otherwise.
Miiller, as nearly every other investigator of his time, was a vital-
ist ; but, as Verworn has said, " Miiller's vitalism had an acceptable
form." Although to him vital force was different from the forces of
lifeless nature, its administration nevertheless followed certain phys-
ico-chemical laws. In this, Miiller's conception seems to be modeled
after the idea of Eeil, the leader, as we have said, of the most rational
form of the doctrine of vitalism in Germany. Miiller maintained his
position as a vitalist to the very end. He cherished to the last the
thought of the existence of a " life energy." We well know how the
activity of his pupils has apparently disproved forever this concep-
tion for natural science; and how it has led to the opposite extreme,
the rather one-sided materialism of the present day.
When we turn to consider Miiller's relation to the Natar philoso-
phic, we recall how he contracted this spirit while he was at Bonn,
and how he was rescued, at least from its extreme influences, by
Rudolphi at Berlin. Throughout his Berlin period, Miiller devoted
much of his thought to freeing natural science from the influence of
the Naturphilosophie. The result was that not long after the death
of Hegel, in 1831, the dangerous play with mystical words became
gradually eliminated from the consideration of life phenomena. From
this time on. the problems of living substance were furthered, es-
pecially by Miiller, with the implements of comparative anatomy, of
physics and of chemistry. In bringing about this condition, and in
establishing the deductive scientific method as alone admissible in the
realm of natural science, we must look upon Miiller as a reformer
whose work has been of enduring benefit to science. The nature of
