526 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
his vitalistic hypothesis did not prevent him in the least from directing
his labor to establish life phenomena on a physico-chemical basis.
Even the vitalistic principle, as it appertains to the philosophy of the
present day, is largely a matter of man's personal and ultimate view
of his own life and his own destiny.
In our consideration of the relation of Miiller's thought to the
Naturphilosophie of his time, we must not deny the fact that Miiller
did recognize a grain of truth in the general philosophic tendencies of
that day. As Verworn says : " While keeping constantly in mind
the large problems and the goal of science, he regarded critically the
special methods and questions only as means to an end — as means for
arriving at a harmonious conception of nature." Throughout his whole
life he remained steadfastly true to this philosophical conception of
science which he had set forth in his inaugural address, " Concerning
the Need of Physiology for a Philosophic Consideration of Nature."
Verworn further laments that modern science has now so largely lost
this element of philosophy, which it had gained as a result of Miiller's
treatment.
Having dealt thus far with the more abstract phase of Miiller's
activity and thought, let us now consider more concretely, for a few
moments, first the extent of the realm over which Miiller exercised so
marvelous a command.
When we examine the list of 260 and more complete publications
which have come from Miiller's pen, we are better able to comprehend
the universality of his activities; and it must be understood in this
connection that in this great number there are few which represent
merely a superficial dalliance with a possible line of investigation.
They demonstrate, in almost every case, that Miiller plunged boldly into
the very heart of the matter which at the time received his fullest
consideration. The main subjects to which his contributions apper-
tain, include the following :
1. The Physiology of Motion.
2. The Life of the Foetus,
3. The Sense Organs.
4. Dissection of Invertebrates; also
(a) their development,
(b) the histology of their tissues.
5. Nerve Physiology.
6. Animal Chemistry.
7. Human Anatomy.
8. Ethnography.
9. Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates.
10. Physiology of the Voice and Speech.
11. Pathological Anatomy.
12. Systematic Zoology.
13. Paleontology.
It is clear that such an extent and variety of undertakings could
not result from a single line of investigation, but required a universal
activity which it is safe to say has never been equaled by any investi-
