JOHANNES MULLER 5*7
gator since Miiller's time. A better conception of the degree of this
extraordinary activity may be gained when one considers that Miiller,
from 1821 (when lie was nineteen years old) to the time of his death,
thirty-seven years later, produced, year in and year out, an average of
one scientific article of from three to five pages, and with from one
to three plates, every three weeks. And in none of these do we find
the spirit of his work dictated by the desire to show that he could get
some sort of a result out of this or that kind of investigation; but
rather by the burning desire to survey and to understand the interre-
lation of all life phenomena.
It would seem that an unconquered field of knowledge left him no
rest, and was for him a stimulus to activity just as much as was the
knowledge of the existence of an unconquered people to Alexander the
Great. At the first opportunity his attention would be directed to
it, and never would the field be abandoned until its truths and its
principles were at last incorporated in Miiller's own system. This,
for Miiller, meant no simple undertaking. It included the universal
proof, the definite transformation, the deepening, the enriching, the
building up and the ordering of every detail of the work ; so that from
each such acquisition the greatest value to science invariably resulted.
This capability of Miiller's is shown especially well in his work on
the Echinoderms. He early applied himself to the study of the struc-
ture and habits of a single group of this interesting branch of animals.
From this study he was led to consider the embryonic development,
and, finally, having pursued his investigations in this line into four of
the five orders of true Echinoderms, he culminated this great work by
subjecting the organization of the entire class of Echinoderms, both
recent and fossil, to a thorough revision. In this same thorough and
exhausting manner, Miiller attacked all possible points in the illimit-
able field of anatomical and physiological knowledge; and the insight
into nature, gained through his own exhaustive researches, yielded to
him a sureness of judgment which seldom failed him in the decisive
moments of his career. An accurate personal knowledge lay at the
bottom of his every work.
In the period of his greatest activity, when he was working sim-
ultaneously upon " The Development of the Eeproductive Organs,"
" The Development of the Glands," and also the first volume of his
" Handbook of Physiology," together with papers on " Osteology " and
" The Myology of the Myxinoid Fishes," he must have possessed the
ability to profitably divide his interest and to oscillate with a remark-
able ease between these several objects of thought and investigation.
The result is perhaps still more marvelous when we realize that, as a
rule, Miiller went over the same line of investigation three times : the
second time while he was writing his results, and the third time when
