528 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the article was in the hands of the printer. Miiller's manuscripts are
said to have been the " terror " of all typesetters.
There was one peculiarity of this man of genius which, though
perhaps a fault, no doubt favored the high degree of productiveness
which Muller manifested throughout his life. This was his indiffer-
ence to the formal completion of his written works. At the culmination
of a certain line of investigation, in which he had arrived at definite,
and usually important, results, he found too attractive the conclusions
and speculations dependent upon these results, to spend his precious
moments preparing or finishing his manuscript for the general reader.
Although Muller took, in the earlier part of his life, a certain
interest in art, literature and music, it was usually the practical alone
which was of consequence to him; and if this phase of the subject
were once assured, he went forward in his work without much regard
for the polishing or the agreeable rounding-off of his subject. And
yet, had Muller lived under different influences and if he had dedi-
cated to the superficial side of his work the same carefulness, we are
bound to say that, like Cuvier, he too would have been a master of
scientific style. But in spite of this tendency, in what Muller did
write he was usually most thoughtful of the manner of his expression.
He would sometimes read to members of his department, without dis-
closing the object, descriptions of certain forms to see whether or not
he could awaken in his hearers the conception which it was his desire
to implant. He was accustomed to enhance the value of his descrip-
tions by forceful comparisons wherein the wealth of his imagination
is readily recognizable. The dredging apparatus which worked before
his laboratory window, the hood-like cap of Frau Martha, the little
dagger of Cornelius, the sketch of Faust — all these common objects
of his sight while hanging on the walls of his study were employed,
as much else, for the elucidating of certain phases of the problems
which occupied him at the time.
When we come to consider the nature and actual value of Miiller's
scientific work, it appears that in general he has more developed the prin-
ciples set in motion by others, than himself given to the world epoch-
making discoveries. In his teachings of the glands, of the voice, of
the sense of sight and of the tumors, he has, with a tremendous power of
work, heaped up an amount of raw material which not only became
united in his own system, but has furnished a basis for much of the
work in physiology since his time. It was Muller who first clearly
recognized the interrelation of psychology and physiology. We remem-
ber that in his doctor's thesis he defended the position : " Psychology
is nothing without physiology." In this regard Miiller's own investi-
gations, wherein he formulated his doctrine of the specific energy
of the sense organs, demonstrated how fully dependent psychology
might be upon physiology — a conception which in more recent times
