JOHANNES MULLER 529
has been developed so far as to arouse in many the belief that psy-
chology should be taught as but a branch of physiology. That Miiller
saw so clearly the interrelation of these two branches of knowledge
is decidedly a point in his favor. His theories were upheld, moreover,
by the many facts presented in his works, " Concerning the Compara-
tive Physiology of the Sense of Sight in Man and the Lower Animals,"
" Eegarding the Phantasmal Phenomena of Vision," also " Concerning
the Life of the Soul " ; and many other references in his " Handbook
of Physiology."
Another, and perhaps the greatest, debt which the world of science
to-day owes to Miiller is for his establishment of physiology upon a
comparative basis. This conception did not first arise in Miiller, how-
ever, but was previously expressed by his teacher, Eudolphi, who had
already emphasized the motto: Comparative anatomy is the surest
support of physiology. Grasping the fuller significance of this thought,
Miiller worked throughout his life to uphold the view that phys-
iology can be only comparative; and among the vast number of his
physiological works, there are few in which this comparative principle
is not more or less clearly expressed.
A further consideration of the nature of Miiller's work shows to
us the evident necessity of making one concession; and yet one which,
under careful examination, may not, after all, detract from the fame
which the world accords to him. This is the fact that in spite of
his varied activities Miiller was never able to make what we may call
a scientific discovery of the first rank. We can find issuing from his
hand no single observation which, as has often been the case with
other so-called great natural scientists, carries down with it through
the ages the name of the fortunate discoverer. With the names of
Priestley and Lavoisier will ever be linked the discovery of oxygen.
The mention of the name Harvey immediately brings to mind the
thought of the circulation of the blood, as with the name of Newton
we invariably associate the statements of the laws of gravity. But
discoveries of equal or even lesser importance can never distinguish
the name of Johannes Miiller. Even his excellent work on reflex
action and the function of the anterior and posterior spinal nerve roots
— these do not belong to him alone, for Charles Bell some years before
had already promulgated the theoretical law; yet it remained for
Miiller to prove this law, and by nice experimentation to establish its
universal application as a fact. Schwann presented to the world of
science that noteworthy discovery that the animal tissue, just as plant
organization, is composed of elemental cells; but it remained for
Miiller to show the highest importance attaching to this discovery,
and to lay down the law of the correspondence between embryonic and
pathological development.
VOL. LXXII. — 34
