53° POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
This failure of Miiller's to make a discovery of the first order can
not, with justice, however, be made to count against him. As DuBois
Eeymond has said, " The most important discoveries can, and often
do, play into the hands of insignificant investigators." " That Miiller
has no such discovery to his credit," continues DuBois Eeymond, " can
be called as little a failure as that a merchant, who becomes rich
through industry and perseverance, should never have been visited by
a great fortune." If, in the time when his productive strength stood
at its maximum, instead of loosing his great power against a group
of widely-extended activities, Miiller had undertaken a course in a
single definite direction, according to the view of Schiller, that strong
stimulus would have been lost to the development of physiology.
Like Miiller, Haller also, though he manifested an all-comprehen-
sive knowledge of the field of physiology, failed in yielding an epoch-
making discovery. Between these two men, as we have already noted,
many points of similarity exist. But, notwithstanding the immense
value which Haller rendered to science by his collection and ordering
of the tag-ends of physiology up to his time (1775), his work as a
whole is excelled by that of Miiller with his over-weighing power
of judgment and the massive comprehension which took in the
whole realm of biological science. While Haller rendered an immense
service by uniting the facts of physiology into a certain order and
system, Miiller took that system as he found it, worked it over, did
away with every vestige of the false Naturphilosophie, deepened by
his own exhaustive researches every channel of it, and turned into those
channels the fresh spirit of a new physiology of comparative anatomy.
We come now, in closing, to a consideration of Miiller's personality.
From his father Miiller inherited the strong and active body charac-
teristic of the Miiller line, which is traceable far back into German
history. We can picture him a man of medium height; in his youth
somewhat slim and of an elegant appearance; the breadth of his
shoulders in good keeping with the well-shaped head, which was always
held erect with a certain attitude of determination. Lithographs and
photographs, pencil, pen and brush drawings presenting Miiller's ap-
pearance at different times in life, have been given to the world; but,
as one of his biographers has said, no picture could accurately repeat,
now the sad, now the illuminating, splendor of that dusky counte-
nance, with the dark locks of hair and brilliantly glowing eyes.
While we know that Miiller received his physical characteristics
from his father, it was from his mother that he appears to have inher-
ited his mental qualities. Among these we may distinguish chiefly
the strongly-developed sense of order and method, and the deep spirit
of enterprise and of indefatigable activity. To these were added a
thorough knowledge of men, a great gift of observation, a conscien-
tious punctuality, and a firmness of purpose together with a knowl-
