38 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
we are finally left with a blank, a sort of hole in creation, . . . The last resort
is the time-honored definition, " matter is the carrier of energy," but it is
impossible to describe it. The assumption that matter exists is made then
because there must be a carrier of energy. But why must there be a carrier
of energy? This is assertion, pure and simple, with no experimental backing. 10
When solidity, and mass or inertia are adequate^ explained as
dynamic facts, and many puzzling physical facts are similarly ac-
counted for, it is surely superfluous to seek further explanation ia
something more to be called matter, especially when no man can tell
or ever has told us what he means by the word.
This is not the place to set forth what we know about electric
charges, but some mention should be made of the unification introduced
into our knowledge by accepting these minute bodies as the building
stones of the grosser structures more immediately experienced.
A word first as to their size :
We are sure, says Lodge, that their mass is* of the order one thousandth
of the atomic mass of hydrogen, and we are sure that if they are purely and
solely electrical their size must be one hundred thousandth of the linear dimen-
sions of an atom: a size with which their penetrating power and other
behavior is quite consistent. Assuming this estimate to be true, it is note-
worthy how very small these electrical particles are, compared to the atom of
matter. ... If an electron is represented by a sphere an inch in diameter,
the diameter of an atom of matter on the same scale is a mile and a half.
Or if an atom of matter is represented by the size of this theater [the
Sheldonean], the electron is represented on the same scale by a printer's full
stop.
He proceeds a little later :
It is a fascinating guess that the electrons constitute the fundamental
substratum of which all matter is composed. That a group of say 700 elec-
trons, 350 positive and 350 negative, interleaved or interlocked in the state of
violent motions so as to produce a stable configuration under the influence of
their centrifugal inertia and their electric forces, constitute an atom of
hydrogen. That sixteen times as many, in another stable grouping, constitute
an atom of oxygen. That some 16,000 of them go to form an atom of sodium:
about 100,000 an atom of barium: and 160,000 an atom of radium.
On this view all elements would be regarded as different groupings of one
fundamental constituent. Of all the groupings possible, doubtless most are so
unstable as never to be formed; but some are stable, and these stabler group-
ings constitute the chemical elements that we know. The fundamental ingre-
dient of which, on this view, the whole of matter is made up, is nothing more
or less than electricity, in the form of an equal number of positive and nega-
tive electric charges.
This, when established, will be a unification of matter such as has through
all the ages been sought: it goes further than had been hoped, for the sub-
stratum is not an unknown and hypothetical protyle, but the familiar electric
charge. 11
10 Loc. cit.
"Popular Science Monthly, August, 1903.
