JOHANNES MULLER 531
edge of the appropriate both in speech and in action. In his domes-
tic life Miiller appears to have been a true husband and to his son
and daughters a good father. His home life was of the pleasantest
■ — at least until the misfortune of ill-health in his later life.
As Miiller's work as a whole is most comparable to Haller's, so
we can say that his personality must have had much in common with
that of Pasteur. In both we see the fine sensitiveness of mind, the
same modesty in self-assertion, the same love of simplicity, the tenac-
ity of purpose, the scrupulousness for details and the same religious
devotion to the hardest labor: these attributes make up a character
not altogether common in the general biography of the older school
of natural scientists.
Miiller's address was characterized by that stiff formality peculiar
to the old school type of German professor; and yet with this he com-
bined the dexterity and activity of the more modern scholar. His
conversation was never productive. The constant consideration of
the various problems of his activity was usually uppermost in his
mind and, although he would talk pleasantly and interestingly of
many varied subjects, as art, architecture and music, it was to some
phase of his labors that the further discussion of these subjects almost
invariably led back. And yet, in the circle of his own family, in a
group of personal friends, or on his vacation and outings with his nets
and microscopes, he could be the most congenial fellow, entering with
enthusiasm into whatever duty, sport or pastime presented. Eecrea-
tion for its own sake, however, Miiller seems never to have desired.
Yet in his earlier years at Berlin, he was seldom seen exhausted. In
his later life, however, the intense nervous strain under which he
worked was a source of much regret to his many friends; and the
knowledge of his frequent use of opium and other alkaloids to bring
him sleep a deeper source of sorrow to those who knew and loved him
best.
As a teacher in the anatomical theater and in the class room, as
also a guide of young investigators in the laboratory, Miiller possessed
an extraordinary ability. And yet, in the beginning he had no natural
gift of speaking, no eloquence and no talent for foreign languages.
Indeed, his early years as academic lecturer at the University of Bonn
were, in this particular respect, not in the least promising. With con-
stant practise, however, he was later able to develop a clearness in
speaking, and a straightforwardness of expression, which, in itself,
approximated to the gifts of eloquence, so that at Berlin he was con-
sidered one of the best of university lecturers. His delivery was never
of the demonstrative sort, which held an audience spellbound by its
bubbling vivacity, its ravishing fire of words, or through a kaleido-
scopic blending of current witticism with scientific truth. He never
went rambling in a lecture, either in thought or in person. His de-
