532 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
livery was usually cold and calculating; and yet in some moments he
could arouse, through his own deep earnestness, the highest enthu-
siasm among his students for the subject whereof he spoke — an en-
thusiasm, the fruits of which have been well shown by the works of
the many students, afterwards famous, who received their first impetus
from contact with Miiller during his periods at Bonn and at Berlin.
In this regard, it is almost needless to say that Miiller's position
in Berlin resulted in a powerful influence over the younger natural
scientists, especially in the northern part of Germany. His person-
ality, as we have seen it, was one to attract students and to hold them
when once they knew him well. He planned for them, and often
accompanied them on many student trips throughout Germany and
even into Norway and Sweden for the purpose of extending various
phases of their biological study. In spite of his apparent coldness
and constraint, he was, as DuBois Beymond has said, always a ready
" comerade," and his views, his books, his apparatus of all kinds, were
ever willingly shared with all who desired them.
To the same degree in which Miiller was independent in his
thought and work, he desired this quality in his students. In his
relations with them, notwithstanding his thorough friendliness, it
appears that in the laboratories Miiller would seldom enter into an
ordinary conversation. Begarding this point, DuBois Beymond says
in his " Geddchtnissrede," " The greatest reward for us students was
when Miiller relaxed and spoke in common conversation along the
lines of highest pleasantry." Even before his fame as a leader in
the field of natural science had gone abroad, and while dependent upon
his worth as a teacher alone, he had constantly at his side a circle of
eager students who clung to him with enthusiasm. Gathered about him
in the earlier days at the University of Bonn, before he went to Berlin,
one finds such men as Claparede, Haeckel, Lachmann, Lieberkuhn,
Anton Schneider and Max Schultze. Upon his departure to Berlin
in 1833, many of his students of the Bonn period followed him, and
one need only mention the names of Haeckel, Ludwig, Bischoff,
Schultze, Volkmann, Briicke, Helmholtz, Virchow and DuBois Bey-
mond, to indicate the immeasurable significance which, as a teacher
and leader of the young investigators of that time, Miiller must have
exercised. The lines of work which he established, his disciples and
followers have carried out, and to what extent, we all realize — not as
royal inheritors of that vast sovereign power of their master, but, we
may say, as governors over the smaller territories into which, like the
empire of Alexander, the field of natural science became divided after
the death of its last great ruler. Of this famous group of students,
now Haeckel alone remains, DuBois Beymond having died in 1896.
Yet all these men, at some period of their lives, have rendered grateful
