536 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
great agent in the formation of ore deposits, geologists are not agreed
as to the source of this water, the conditions under which it is most
effective, nor the relative importance of its work in ascending and
descending movements.
Eegarding its source, we have those who believe with John Wood-
ward, Franz Posepny and C. E. Van Hise that the water in the upper-
most layers or outer zone of the earth, including the waters on the
surface and in the atmosphere, accomplish the formation of ore by
means of a perpetual circulation. From the air it falls on the earth
as rain; through crevices and fractures it enters the rocks by reason
of its head or the weight of more water on top of it, and finds its way
deeper and deeper to the very lowest point where the density of the
rocks will permit it to penetrate. Down to this depth, which is
theoretically not more than five or six miles, the temperature has been
constantly increasing, and the water by reason of this higher tempera-
ture has been gaining strength as a solvent and picking up alkalies
or acids that enable it to hold even the most difficultly soluble sub-
stances in solution. Finding no escape downward, and urged on by
cooler and heavier waters above, these saturated solutions begin to
move laterally and upward, expanding and becoming of lower specific
gravity because of the forced deposition of dissolved material as they
become supersaturated. Following the directions of least resistance,
these metal carriers reach the surface as hot springs or geysers through
fractures caused by earth movements. Gradually the walls of these
fractures become coated with vein minerals and ores, until the waters
stop flowing or the fracture is healed and a vein is formed.
Then there are those like Vogt, Spurr, Weed and Kemp, who
maintain that the chief source of underground waters is the uncon-
solidated magma of molten lava within the earth. These authorities
point to the immense volumes of steam emitted from volcanoes; they
call attention to the conclusions of European scientists who have
decided that many of the hot springs can not be derived from meteoric
waters heated and returned to the surface; they remind us that there
is so much watery vapor derived from lavas that possibly the oceans
themselves were formed from volcanic emissions. They point out the
ease with which such waters, thus derived and so heated, could gather
metallic substances at great depths and bring them to the places where
they are now found. They mention the fact that there is a very general
association between the more important mining regions and eruptive
rocks; and they raise several serious objections to the premises of the
disciples of the meteoric water school.
On this particular point we shall not dwell further; it is quite
probable that both theories contain elements of truth; and that ore
deposits have been formed by both magmatic and meteoric reascending
