THE GENESIS OF ORES 537
waters. It is even possible in some cases to determine by the char-
acter of the minerals the origin and nature of the causative solutions.
As to the relative importance of the work of ascending and de-
scending waters there is also divergence of opinion. There are few
who still doubt the agency of descending waters in the formation of
the oxidized ores, such as carbonates, silicates and oxides of copper,
lead and zinc and silver chloride, or in the superficial or shallow altera-
tion of the sulphides, arsenides or antimonides. The iron ores of the
Lake Superior region, for example, are generally believed to owe their
concentration to descending solutions, in this respect differing from
many of the Scandinavian iron ores, according to recent descriptions.
It is not, however, the oxidized or " dry " ores alone that are now
believed to owe their formation in large part to the action of descending
waters; but the base ores consisting of chemical combinations of the
metals with sulphur, arsenic, antimony, tellurium and some rarer
elements. It is only within the past decade that it has been considered
possible that the sulphide minerals are produced by reaction between
sulphate or carbonate solutions and undecomposed sulphides or other
minerals found in veins. Laboratory experiments have, however,
shown that the operation is not only possible, but easily accomplished
and duplicated under normal conditions as to temperature and pres-
sure. 2 This is a fact of great importance and wide significance, for it
aids in the explanation of many formerly puzzling phenomena of
mines and mining geology.
It has long been noticed by the students of ore deposits that by
far the greater number of mines become exhausted at comparatively
shallow depths; that veins, instead of continuing downward uniform
in size and composition, like dikes of diabase and porphyry, become
smaller and of lower value with depth, and often disappear altogether.
It is noticed also that the shape of many ore deposits and the distribu-
tion and paragenesis of the minerals which they contain can often be
better explained on the theory of descending than of ascending miner-
alizers. Moreover, it is apparent that there are changes constantly in
progress in those portions of sulphide ore bodies lying nearest the
surface of the ground. These changes consist in the oxidation of the
sulphides and their solution as sulphates. These sulphate solutions
percolate downward into the veins or rocks below along the most open
channels; and thus, by degrees, the upper zone of the vein is robbed
of most or all of its sulphide minerals, and only a gossan or iron cap
remains.
The process of oxidizing and leaching out of the sulphides in the
superficial zone of ore deposits tends, first of all, to disguise the nature
2 H. V. Wincliell, "The Synthesis of Chaleoeite," Bull. Geol. Soc. Am.,
Vol. XIV., pp. 269-276, 1903.
