538 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
of the unaltered ore below. In many instances the ore discovered
from the outcroppings is gold ore. And gold mills are often erected
and operated for years upon such ore, without a suspicion arising that
extensive bodies of copper or lead sulphides occur at greater depths.
Such was indeed the history of Leadville, Colorado ; of Bingham, Utah ;
of Ely, Nevada, and of Mount Morgan, Australia. The latter is
one of the world's greatest gold mines; yet it is now producing copper
from its lower levels; and developments have proved it to be a great
copper mine. Immense low-grade deposits of copper ore are found below
the gossan at Ely and at Bingham, although it is doubtful whether the
most experienced geologist or keenest observer of mineralization phe-
nomena would in either place have felt justified in predicting the
existence of the wealth below.
In other localities the metal values have either all been removed,
or else the primary sulphide ore was too poor in gold to leave oxidized
ores of value. In such cases the discovery of the subterranean treasures
is purely fortuitous. Butte may be considered the most conspicuous
example of this class. The outcrops of its copper veins contain the
merest traces of that metal; and there is seldom enough silver or gold
in them to justify mining even under the low costs obtaining there
to-day. The zone of oxidation is generally from one hundred to two
hundred feet deep; and if it had not been for the presence of another
system of veins carrying silver, veins of different age and origin, but
closely associated geographically, this greatest of copper camps might
not yet have been discovered. It was in the search for silver ore that
copper ore was discovered here, and one can not help wondering how
many more camps equal to Butte may be undiscovered and unsuspected
where no outcropping silver or gold mines attract the prospector, and
reward the efforts of the miner. Here is surely an important and un-
explored field for the geologist. The study of oxidized vein phenomena
may yield results thoroughly satisfactory from both material and
scientific points of view.
Below the zone of oxidation the chemical reactions which take
place between the descending acid solutions and the unoxidized ores
result in the formation of more and richer sulphides, down at least to
the level of the lower limit of free circulation, and as far as surface
waters penetrate. And as erosion of the surface is continually bringing
deeper and deeper sulphides within the reach of oxidizing and dissolving
surface waters the operation is in constant progress, and these lower-
lying ores become more and more enriched until in some cases are
formed bonanzas of world renown, and almost inestimable value. It
is a fact of much significance that such bonanzas are generally limited
to depths where descending waters may have penetrated at one time
or another. Indeed the very channels through which the enriching
