TEE GENESIS OF OEES 539
solutions came can often be detected; and peculiarities of shape and
position observed which can be explained with difficulty on any other
theory.
Practised miners often point to the richness of ore shoots near the
junction or crossing of veins. Indeed such pockets and shoots are
usually sought and frequently found where two veins come together.
This fact alone may not signify the instrumentality of downward
moving waters. But when in connection with it we discover that
rich ore shoots are also frequently found at the intersection of veins
by faults, and zones of movement so recent or of such shallow depth or
limited extent that the faults themselves are not veins, and have not
been mineralized except near the intersected veins, and when the ore
shoots thus formed occur on that side of the fault plane where they
could have been formed most naturally by descending waters, and are
wanting entirely in the corresponding place on the other side, then,
indeed, we recognize beyond a doubt the agency of meteoric waters
in both situations.
It is often possible where sulphide ores have been deposited in
soluble rocks to distinguish between the products of ascension and
descension, and here too the latter are frequently of much the highest
grade.
This theory of secondary enrichment which is so frequently re-
ferred to in recent mining literature; and is still so little understood,
depends, of course, on the existence of a body of primary ore, probably
formed by ascending solutions. If there are no ores to be oxidized
the downward moving waters will have no metalliferous burden to
deposit. But wherever the rocks contain disseminated ore, no matter
how small the percentage, there is a possibility of the formation of
richer ores through the action of surface waters. And where the
primary mineralization was itself comparatively rich, even though
not a minable product, there the downward-moving waters may the
more readily bring about concentrations of high-grade bonanza ore.
Bearing in mind this conception of the meaning of " secondary
enrichment," and admitting that it is frequently accomplished through
the agency of descending meteoric waters, let us briefly consider the
conditions under which they are most active and efficient :
It is a proposition requiring no argument that if by the aid of
mineral bearing solutions the ores occurring in veins are to be en-
riched, these solutions must enter the veins. And if all the meteoric
waters which fall upon the outcrop of a vein or upon rocks contain-
ing disseminated ore run off rapidly down the mountainside without
remaining to oxidize, dissolve and penetrate the vein with their load
of mineral, there can not be any enrichment caused thereby. Further-
more, if the work of the surface waters is chiefly destructive mechan-
