54 o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ically instead of chemically there will be little opportunity for the
deposition of secondary concentrations of ores within the rocks. If,
for example, the .principal effect of the rains and snows is to erode
and wash away the exposed portions of veins with all their contained
ores, there will be a scattering and wasting instead of an assembling
and storing. In other words, secondary enrichment by descending
waters depends first of all upon the ratio of oxidation to erosion.
Where erosion is more rapid than oxidation the unoxidized sulphides
will be found in the rocks and veins at the surface of the ground,
and in the sands rolling down the beds of torrential streams as in
Alaska. While if oxidation precedes erosion the uppermost zone of
a sulphide ore deposit will be oxidized and leached of its base minerals,
as is the case here in Butte, and to varying extent over the larger
portion of the temperate zones of the earth. Assuming that the
conditions are such as to permit the entrance of surface waters, and
that the ground-water level is at some depth, which depth naturally
varies from year to year and age to age because of many common
geological phenomena, the factors upon which depend the extent of
secondary enrichment are: (1) Quantity of water, (2) time, (3)
temperature, (4) the physical structure and solubility of the rock
containing the primary ore, and of the ore itself.
It is manifest that a large supply of mineralizing solution will ac-
complish greater results than a small supply, provided it follows the
course of the ore. For the metals in solution can hardly escape pre-
cipitation by reaction with the primary sulphides present, sooner or
later, at some depth; and the oxidizing and dissolving effects will
certainly increase with the amount of active oxygen-bearing moisture
available. In regions of very little rainfall there may be partial oxida-
tion to the depth of several hundred feet; and yet there may still
remain particles of the primary sulphides upon the very surface of the
rocks. Chemical activity is great ; but the thirsty rocks quickly absorb
that part of the water of rains and melting snows which is not
evaporated, and the work of oxidation is not so complete as in regions
more plentifully supplied with rain. On the other hand, there may be
such heavy and constant downpourings of rain, even in tropical region?,
that erosion is again the most active agent.
The second of our factors is time; a commodity of which the geolo-
gist is accustomed to make most liberal and even extravagant use in
his arguments and theories. In this he is frequently justified ; and the
most astonishing results may be produced by the long continued but
slow operation of natural forces in any given direction. Events of
the past few years have, however, reminded us forcibly that catastrophic
phenomena must not be forgotten in comprehensive reviews of the
earth's history.
