THE GENESIS OF ORES 541
The time element enters in a variety of ways into the problem of
ore formation by descending circulations. Thus an ore deposit formed
in its primary, low grade constitution during earlier geological periods,
such as the Cambrian or Huronian, and during all of the subsequent
ages exposed to the action of superficial agencies unhampered by sub-
sequent covering of later rocks, has a thousandfold the opportunity
for concentration of its ores that is presented by similar rocks and
ores formed during later geological epochs, say the Tertiary. This is
exemplified by the iron ores of the Mesabi range as contrasted with
the glauconitic deposits of New Jersey or Texas. During almost all
the ages since the Cambrian the iron ore formation of the Mesabi has
been exposed to the weather, covered only for a geological moment dur-
ing a part of Cretaceous time. The result is the largest and purest
deposits of iron ore ever discovered, while rocks of similar composition
but much more recent formation exhibit only the initial stages of ore
formation.
Another way in which time affects ore deposition is in connection
with the rate at which the waters move in a vein. Solutions of a
given composition may move so rapidly as to produce but little effect,
or may move so slowly that they clog up or retard other active waters
after their own power is exhausted. Upon a steep drainage slope or
mountain the waters may pass off so rapidly, even below the actual
top of the ground, as to exert but little influence, or they may move
with just sufficient rapidity to accomplish their maximum of chemical
effect.
Our third factor, temperature, is of great importance. In the first
place, oxidation, which is but another name for combustion, is greatly
accelerated or retarded by slight changes in temperature. Sulphides
which remain immersed for centuries in water under a glacier in
Alaska would be completely oxidized in a few years exposed to the
heat of the sun on a southern slope in Colorado or California. In the
next place, the rate of solution depends directly upon temperature, in-
creasing as the temperature rises, and, itself a process of heat consump-
tion, is greatly facilitated by heat from external sources. Thus in
warm rocks, in mild climates, upon the sunny side of mountains, there
will be the most favorable conditions as regards temperature, for the
formation of secondarily enriched ore deposits. The experienced pros-
pector will tell you that it is in precisely these localities that they are
found, although he never before heard any explanation for it.
Lastly, the physical structure and solubility of the rocks and ores
affect their susceptibility to later enrichment for perfectly obvious
reasons. A dense rock is not readily entered by mineralizing solutions.
Likewise an insoluble one is not easily replaced and does not afford
lodgment for ores. And if the ores themselves are not readily attacked
