EDUCATIONAL ADVANCE 545
the production of goods requires the cooperation of a constantly in-
creasing number of workers. Each one forms but a link in a great
industrial chain, and consequently sees only a minute part of the
entire operation necessary to make the completed article. Machine
production aims at making a uniform and interchangeable product.
The workman is unfortunately bound down to a rigid and monotonous
routine; he becomes in time almost automatic in his movements. He
struggles blindly on, working and producing, without recognizing the
end in view, without feeling that he, himself, is an integral and
necessary factor in the formation and operation of a great industrial
machine or organism.
The school must aim to demonstrate the social necessity of each
worker's task, and to give a clue to the great, intricate industrial
labyrinth. The problem of the relation of labor to capital can not
be solved until the work and function of all factors of production are
clearly understood by a majority of the people ; when such a condition
obtains, the question of the proper distribution of wealth will be greatly
simplified. The school attempts to meet the new economic condition
by enlarging its curriculum; it now aims at more than mere mental
training and discipline. Manual training, nature study, kinder-
gartens, athletics, physical training, commerical training, agriculture,
domestic science, cooking, sewing, drawing, modeling, painting and
music are now incorporated into the course of study. These added
features are merely tentative attempts to give training which was
formerly provided outside the school, but which can not be so pro-
vided under present conditions. Much of this work has been added
in a haphazard manner, in order to fill a vaguely defined need, without
proper arrangement or agreement with the older portion of the school
curriculum. These additions, the direct result in many instances of a
vigorous popular demand, have increased the importance of the school,
and have made it a more potent factor in the industrial, economic, and
social progress of this country. Nevertheless, after this enlargement
and enrichment of the course, there still remain many gaps in our edu-
cational system which are yet to be bridged over.
The order in which these additions have taken place is fairly well
defined. As scientific discoveries and the practical applications of
steam and electricity multiplied, our industrial methods underwent an
almost complete transformation. A universal need for scientific and
technical knowledge was felt. The first notable change from the time
honored curriculum was made in response to this demand. The phys-
ical sciences, physics and chemistry, were advanced to a position of
equal rank with mathematics and language. Next appeared a demand
for the kindergarten, manual training, drawing and domestic science.
This demand is the result of a conscious or unconscious recognition
