546 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
of the undesirability of a wide separation of hand work from head
work, aided hj the call of manufacturers for young men possessing
trained hands and eyes. The need of such training was not urgent
previous to the wide-spread development of the factory system. Tread-
ing on the heels of the manual-training movements came physical
training, night and vacation schools, training for citizenship, nature
study, school gardening, the study of agricultural science, and the
special school for the truant and the " incorrigible." Not all of these
additions to the work of the school are to be found in any one system,
but each has been somewhere recognized as a desirable feature of the
educational program. In general, it may be affirmed, that as a people
pass from a semi-primitive agricultural stage with isolated, nearly
independent families, to the more complex industrial life involving
mutual interdependence and specialization of occupation; the im-
portance of the education gained within the school increases relatively
to that acquired outside.
What is the significance of these changes to society? It seems in-
disputable that the importance of the school relative to that of the
home in the education of youth, has increased and is still increasing.
This fact grows naturally out of the changed functions and environ-
ment of the home of the present as compared with that of immediately
preceding generations. Home training is highly individualistic ; school
training is not. The state educates the young in order to advance the
welfare of society, in order to form the good citizen — the efficient pro-
ducer and consumer. The desired result is the elevation of the
standard of living of society — a social benefit. The mass can, however,
be elevated only by acting upon each individual composing it. The
school becomes society's agent for the promotion of its collective wel-
fare; its purpose is chiefly directive. As society is recruited from the
young, it is necessary that the incoming generations be worthy suc-
cessors of the outgoing. The attention should be fixed upon those
institutions which train the growing child, and not so much upon those
corrective and repressive institutions which are needed because the
early training and direction of their inmates were not what they should
have been. Too much money is spent upon the diseased tree, but not
enough on the growing twig. The functions of the school should in-
clude the intellectual, physical, industrial and moral training of the
young, and of the older persons as well; the greater the efficiency and
effectiveness of the school, the less the need for corrective and repres-
sive institutions. 1
The cure for many industrial and social ills is to be found in the
proper use of increased leisure which improved industrial methods
make possible, and which the modern ideal of democracy proclaims to
1 See article by the writer in Education, October, 1903.
