EDUCATIONAL ADVANCE 547
be the birthright of each and all. Leisure makes possible study, social
intercourse and the expansion of the life of the individual to the
measure which the modern world community spirit demands.
At the beginning of the last century, the United States was a weak
nation possessing an unknown immensity of undeveloped resources. In
a century it grew to be one of the richest and most powerful nations
of the earth — an acknowledged great power. Development of re-
sources was the demand and the necessity of the period. Exploitation
of natural treasures and constant expansion was the program of the
century. Kesourceful, self-reliant and individualistic men who were
willing and able to devote untiring energy to the task of building up
the material strength and resources of the nation, were needed, and
became the familiar, successful and progressive type of American man-
hood. The fundamental, all-absorbing economic question was pro-
duction, which was carried on chiefly through the exploitation of natural
resources. The rough and crude form of frontier life reacted upon the
entire people, and left an imprint which many generations will not
entirely eradicate. As long as the frontier remained there was con-
tinual contact with the new and primitive. This type of civilization
tended to continue and to perpetuate itself long after the conditions
which caused it had passed into history. The primitive type of so-
ciety is highly individualistic; it resents the interference of organized
society in any form. In such a community might often spells -right.
It places little or no limitation upon the use or abuse of property.
The right of the individual completely over-towers the right of society.
After the disappearance of the frontier a different set of conditions
confronts the people of the United States. Widely separated farming
communities or sparsely settled mining districts, and the presence of
immense tracts of practically free land, demand one system of ethics,
one code of human relations, and one kind of educational principles
and precepts; while densely populated cities, the scarcity of free land,
and increased mutual interdependence make imperative a new scheme
of social relations. The disappearance of the frontier induces a
weakening of the individualistic and a strengthening of the social
qualities of the American people. Sociological, as well as psychological,
principles begin gradually and timidly to creep into the educational
world. Society must adjust itself to a more crowded environment ; and
the problem is to make this adjustment along the lines of least resist-
ance. New social, industrial, agricultural, commercial, educational,
ethical and legal forms now become necessary. What is desirable and
even highly commendable in a new, fertile, undeveloped and expanding
country may become a positive menace and hindrance in an older, better
developed and more densely populated nation. New aims and new
ideals are requisite to this adjustment from the old to the new. Educa-
