543 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
tion now assumes a position of greater importance than it held in
former generations. Changed environment, crowded cities, more in-
tensive and more scientific agriculture, quicker and more regular
methods of transportation and communication are producing effects
which are plainly noticeable in the life, thought and action of the
entire nation. It is, however, extremely difficult for a people schooled
for generations in the university of self-reliance and of individual
liberty to graciously accept the restrictions and modifications which this
new era makes necessary; but such acceptance is inevitable. If educa-
tion lags behind, rather than precedes, this changing sentiment, if it
is merely passively carried along with the stream, instead of actively
aiding in controlling its progress and direction; it fails utterly to
effectively perform one of its most important duties — that of mini-
mizing the friction of readjustment to a new environment and a new
set of social and industrial conditions. This need of adjustment should
be recognized by educators, and intelligently dealt with.
The men of the present are not Robinson Crusoes, they live in a
busy world peopled with millions of other similar fellow creatures. An
individual is what he is because of the existence and influence of other
men; he is distinctly a social product. Development of the individual
is the resultant of individualistic and of social demands; but the latter
are now beginning to take precedence over the former. Purely psycho-
logical and individualistic needs and desires must more and more be
modified by those of a sociological character. Society is a complex and
delicate organism or piece of mechanism; the wishes and ambitions of
the individual must, in an increasing measure, be subordinated to and
dovetailed into, the needs of society considered as a whole.
The disappearance of the frontier leads to the gradual elevation of
the moral tone of the people. It is an important factor in assigning
greater importance to questions of distribution and consumption. Busi-
ness and political ideals are higher to-day than formerly. Many polit-
ical methods which were in vogue as late as 1896, are not considered
to be in good form to-day. The doctrine that property is a social trust
is gaining ground as it could not have done twenty or forty years ago.
We are examining closely the methods employed in wealth production.
The monopolist and the men of great wealth are now put on the de-
fensive. Each must justify the social utility of his industrial power
or his amassed fortune. Eace solidarity and the brotherhood of men
are now shibboleths. This spirit of brotherhood is first manifested
between members of the same trade or society — comparatively small
groups ; but gradually it enlarges its scope and becomes more inclusive.
To-day the laboring man is found preaching the solidarity and mutual
interest of all workers in the United States — skilled and unskilled
alike. A great strike is conducted upon a clear recognition of this
