EDUCATIONAL ADVANCE 549
principle, one which could hardly have risen into consciousness if a
great mass of fertile and easily accessible land was still our national
heritage. Such a change as this calls insistently for new ideals in
education.
America is an enormous assimilative cauldron. Here are gathered
nearly all the tribes and peoples of the earth in one great hetero-
geneous mass; and the public-school system is the official assimilator.
It deals with the young and plastic. Excepting those who attend
private and parochial schools, our laws bring all the children of the
entire country under the influence of the public school system. The
immigrant comes to us from an entirely different environment; he has
developed under different influences. His home life is not the same
as ours ; his child possesses other concepts, traits and ideals than those
of the American boy or girl. The process of assimilation usually means
the molding of this people in conformity to the so-called Anglo-
Saxon cast. It is forgotten that these people have many character-
istics and traits which might well be grafted into our civilization and
thus perpetuated. Miss Jane Addams has done much to emphasize
this important fact. She points out that it is characteristic American
" complacency " to utterly ignore the past experience of the immigrant
who comes to our shores. Earnest Crosby makes the indictment more
sweeping and severe : " And not content with stifling the originality
of the immigrant, we must needs carry our missionary zeal for uni-
formity to foreign lands in the hope of destroying all individuality.
In Anglo-Saxonizing India and Japan we are crushing out the most
wonderful of arts beyond a possibility of resurrection. We are the Goths
and Vandals of the day. We are the Tartars and the Turks. And
the countries which we overrun have each their own priceless heritage
of art and legend which we ruthlessly stamp underfoot." Some at-
tempt certainly should be made to preserve and continue the desirable
traits and gifts of the different alien peoples who crowd to our shores;
and to assimilate these traits into the sum total of our national char-
acteristics. Few educators have as yet seen the possibilities and the
desirability of progress in this direction.
It should be noticed that not until after our frontier was practically
a thing of historical significance only, did the immigration from
Southern Europe begin. These people lack individual initiative; they
live in little communities. With the rise of modern industrialism and
of urban life, our civilization took on aspects which were attractive to
the more docile and less individualistic emigrant of many sections of
Europe. The traits of these people are more nearly consonant with the
life of to-day than that of the early individualistic Anglo-Saxon
frontiersman. The assimilation of these races and of their culture may
modify our civilization and traits in a very desirable manner. A Greek
