55° POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
immigrant, in a letter recently published, 2 clearly states the proposition.
" In this country there is a great movement against the foreigners and
especially those of Latin, Slavic and Jewish origin. The Latin and
Jew (altruist and sentimentalist) will give in this country some of their
qualities that the northern people don't have. The Americans (egoists
and individualists) need some of our blood to change their character
in the next generation." There is, however, another side to this
question which will be touched upon later.
The rapid growth of cities has been a marked feature of recent
growth and development. The city of to-day is the result of a rapid
and unhealthy growth. People have been rudely drawn from a rural
environment and quickly sucked into these great uneasy vortices of
industry and trade. The ideals, customs and habits of the rural
community have gone with them to this new environment, and still
cling with great tenacity. Only in recent years have the city dwellers
awakened to the fact that they are really dwelling in an environment
which calls for new, non-rural rules of action and of association. The
nature of the city itself has been modified. It is larger, more crowded,
more dependent upon arteries, of trade and transportation, and upon
the supplies furnished from the outside. The race must adapt itself
to urban conditions as they exist to-day; we must learn to live and to
thrive in densely populated centers. If the United States is to con-
tinue on its present course of advancement and progress, the city must
be made clean, healthy, moral, and it must be well governed. The
majority of the successful business and professional men of to-day were
born in rural districts. In the past the country has furnished the bone
and sinew of the city, and, as a necessary consequence, it has been
drained of many of its best and most progressive citizens. The city
can not indefinitely continue its parasitic existence. Already one third
of our population are urban dwellers. A much larger percentage of
our successful and progressive men and women must in the future be
drawn from the city-born and city-bred population; hence, the urgent
need of improved conditions in our cities.
The modern city is a mere industrial establishment; but it must be
made a cluster of homes. Healthy and wholesome home surroundings
can only be obtained through education as to the sanitary and esthetic
requirements of urban communities; and these efforts must begin with
the child. The cities have been "great sores upon the body politic,"
because they have experienced such a rapid development that society
has been unable to modify itself rapidly and sufficiently to meet the
requirements of the situation. A two-fold weakness of our educational
system is revealed at this point. The curriculum and the methods of
the city school have not been sufficiently modified to meet the require-
2 Arena, March, 1905.
