EDUCATIONAL ADVANCE 551
ments of children, living in a crowded city, with little opportunity for
constructive work or healthful recreation. Some progress has been
made in this direction ; but there is still great need of further improve-
ment. On the other hand, the rural school has assisted in augmenting
the growth of the cities and in encouraging the drift away from the
farm. Its curriculum has absolutely ignored, with a few very recent
exceptions, the fact that the farm presents problems which require
education and training to solve. " Every book they [the country
children] study leads to the city; every ambition they receive inspires
them to run away from the country; the things they read about are
city things; the greatness they dream about is city greatness." The
problems connected with the city, those relating to labor, and all our
great industrial and social questions, are at the root questions of
education.
However, after the faults of the city have been examined and laid
bare, it is but just to recall that the cities have ever stood in the fore-
front of the educational advance and in the development of labor organi-
zations. Our free tax-supported schools, for example, originated in the
cities. A striking illustration of the position of the cities is found in
the result of the referendum of 1819, which established free schools
throughout the state of JSTew York. Forty-two out of a, total of fifty-
nine counties favored the repeal. Of the seventeen counties which
stood firm and won a victory for the tax-supported public school, four
were included in, or were directly adjacent to, New York City, eight
bordered the Hudson between Albany and New York, and three others
contained the important cities of Buffalo, Syracuse and Schenectady.
The vote revealed a sharp division of urban against rural counties;
and the former stood for progress and for better educational facilities.
Without entering exhaustively into an analysis of the situation, five
reasons may be assigned for this phenomenon which is by no means
confined to the Empire State : (a) A large percentage of our city
population are industrial workers who are small or non-taxpayers, (b)
In the large cities are found great masses of accumulated wealth which
can be taxed, (c) Here the home first lost its industrial character and
its surrounding playground, and as a result much of its educational
possibilities, (d) People are crowded closely together in cities, evils
and needs are more in evidence than in rural districts. Also, the
opportunities for agitation and propaganda are more numerous,
(e) Pauperism and juvenile crime are more prevalent and disturbing
in cities than in the country.
Industrial progress has brought about the separation of the workers
into distinct, well-defined classes; particularly marked is the division
between the manual workers and the brain workers or the managers
of the business. Professor Veblen remarks that the progress of in-
