552 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
dustry has relieved one class of workers, " of the cares of business " ;
and they " have with increasing specialization given their attention to
the mechanical processes involved in the production for the market."
The remarkable increase of the indirect method of labor is a factor in
the modern industrial problem. The workers no longer produce
directly to satisfy their own wants; each produces for others, while all
furnish something for each individual. It is a round-about process;
the connection between effort and satisfaction is hidden. The direct
reaction between effort and satisfaction has been superseded by a very
complex social and industrial chain of actions and reactions. The
worker often becomes a drudge, a drone, an unthinking piece of
mechanism, partially because he does not recognize or feel that his
work has any social significance, because there is little apparent causal
relation between effort and wages. Industry has been " depersonalized."
Modern specialization of industry, diversification of demands, and
increase in the variety of consumption have tended to divide the popu-
lation into a large number of classes and interests. Progress has always
resulted from .class struggles, the clash of interests ; but to-day the
form of this contest has become complex. There are the familiar
traditional classes — land-owners, manufacturers, merchants, profes-
sional men and laborers; but each one of these classes is now split into
subgroups, on the one hand, while, on the other, many individuals may
be classed under two or more classes or sub-classes. Nevertheless, many
difficulties and obstructions now face the workman who aspires to
become an employer, who struggles to rise out of his class. John
Mitchell believes that the workers are, as a rule, acting on the principle
that they can not rise out of that class. For the vast majority it is
once a wage-earner, always a wage-earner. The amount of capital now
required to set up in nearly every business is large. Even the farmer
who runs in debt for his farm, finds it almost impossible to pay off the
mortgage from the profits of the farm in many sections of this country.
The amount of money required to enter the iron and steel business is
measured by hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars. Consolida-
tion of business interests reduces the numbers of managers and super-
intendents. The great industrial concerns and the railroads are be-
coming large civil-service systems. A man must enter their employ
in his youth, at the bottom, remain with the company year after year,
gradually working into better-paid and more responsible positions. But
he always remains an employee. The young man can no longer work
hard for a few years, save a few hundreds or thousands of dollars, and
then set up in business as an employer of others, many of whom will
follow in his footsteps within a few years. The person who now
accumulates a small amount of property is obliged to turn the manage-
ment of it over to others. Investments in stocks and bonds, deposits-
