EDUCATIONAL ADVANCE 555
and crude economic goods, toward a greater variety in quantity and
quality of demands. As Clark has shown, the tendency of dynamic
economics, as seen from the purely economic point of view, is toward
variety in consumption and specialization in production. But after a cer-
tain point is past specialization in production tends to prevent greater
variety in consumption. These economic considerations, as well as
those of an ethical or social nature, set bounds beyond which spe-
cialization ought not to pass. This limit is not fixed and invariable.
For example, the man who has an avocation, who utilizes his leisure
in such a way as to broaden his view of life, so as to exercise many
different sets of muscles and brain cells, may specialize his work much
more minutely without individual detriment or economic and social
loss, than the man who talks shop, or does nothing to diversify his
tastes or to open up new lines of thought and action, during his
leisure hours. In the terms employed by the economist, the ideal point
of equilibrium is where the descending curve of the social value of
the products due to additional subdivision is met by the ascending
curve of disutility due to long-continued and narrow specialization on
the part of the individual members of society. Other things remain-
ing the same, the additional products which come into being through
increasing subdivision, gradually diminish in value as increment after
increment is added, according to the well-known law of diminishing
returns; and on the contrary the detriment to society as a whole in-
creases as individuals are forced into narrower and narrower rounds
of duty.
Ethical considerations lead directly and unequivocally to the con-
viction that men must not be treated as machines, that the true end and
aim of industry is the production of men, not the multiplication of
profits. True long-run economic aims coincide with ethical ideals. As
Walt Whitman has taught us : " Produce great men, the rest follows."
Primitive industry was always a means to an end which was plainly
seen ; it was never an end in itself. It has remained for modern times
to heap up complexity, confusion, and cross-purposes until the funda-
mentals have Been hidden from view. When the methods of modern
complex industry come into collision with the true economic and ethical
demands of society, the former must be modified. It is one of the
functions of education to harmonize the demands of these two appar-
ently conflicting and opposing forces. It should so train the members
of society as to allow the greatest possible advantage to be taken of
efficient productive methods consistent with the welfare and best de-
velopment of the individual members of society of all classes and
conditions.
Both the internal and external organization of industrv now tend
to remove variety, irregularity, risk, chance and speculation. The
