556 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
business of the future calls for the manager and the administrator
rather than the speculator or the promoter, for the steady, routinized,
narrowly specialized worker rather than all-round men so familiar in
the early industrial history of the United States. The traits of the
pioneer, the backwoodsman and the hunter, those traits due to varied
and changing experiences of the early settler, continue, however, and
are transmitted from generation to generation long after the stimuli
which produced them have ceased to act and have been overwhelmed by
the rising tide of civilization. If modern life offers inadequate oppor-
tunity in the ordinary course of daily life for the expression of these
inherited impulses, if they are inhibited from all beneficial or desirable
expression, they will find expression in abnormal or undesirable ways.
Gambling, sport of all kinds, drinking, carousing, are some of the
many forms in which these inhibited traits find a vent. The assimila-
tion of the recent immigration will dilute and diminish the strength
of these characteristics; but they should not be smothered and cast
aside, they should be utilized and turned into new and modern channels
of activity.
Mr. John A. Hobson in a recent article touches upon this point.
{t The factory employee, the shop assistant, the office clerk, the most
typical members of modern industrial society, find an oppressive
burden of uninteresting order, of mechanism, in their working day.
Their work affords no considerable scope for spontaneity, self-expression
and the interest, achievement and surprise which are ordinary human
qualities. It is easily admitted that an absolutely ordered (however
well ordered) human life would be vacant of interest and intolerable;
in other words it is a prime condition of humanity that the unexpected
in the form of happening and achievement should be represented in
every life. Art in its widest sense, as interested effort of production,
and play as interested but unproductive effort, are essential." 5 If
modern industrial and commercial life is being placed upon a stable,
sure, scientific, calculable basis, if chance and luck are being replaced
by skill and efficiency, if routine and dead uniformity are replacing all-
round effort and variety, if the home environment is becoming more
monotonous and artificial; other social institutions must furnish
pleasurable change and variety. If elevating institutions as the school
or the church do not cope satisfactorily with the situation ; other much
less desirable ones will, and the spirit of gambling, of riotous living,
of carousal, of living for the sake of sport, will enter society and take
a firm hold. Old instincts are not easily eradicated; education must
never overlook them. The recent additions and contemplated additions
to our educational system are the concrete results of some of the
6 International Journal of Ethics, January, 1905.
