EDUCATIONAL ADVANCE 557
attempts which have been made to cope with the question in a more or
less intelligent manner.
The entrance of the United States and other important industrial
nations upon a policy of commercial expansion, the growth of im-
perialism and the prevalence of the desire to exploit the less industrially
progressive nations, mark the beginning of a new epoch in our national
life. Specialization of industry and subdivision of labor now assume
new aspects. Capital becomes international; while labor still remains
upon a national basis. Mr. Hobson and others have pointed out that
the backward nations will now assume the place hitherto occupied by
the great mass of the unskilled in the home country. Humanitarian
and democratic tendencies are in danger of receiving a check. Capital
in a new, rapidly developing country finds opportunity for invest-
ments in improvements; but in a more highly developed, but still
progressive country, it is obliged, unless there are opportunities for
investments in foreign countries, to seek investment in directly
productive enterprises which produce articles for the consumption of
the great mass of the people. If there is no opportunity for foreign
investment of capital, industrial progress will necessitate an improve-
ment in the consumptive power of the masses. Economic and ethical
aims begin to draw into closer relationship. The possibility of
enormous investments of capital in South America and Asia is some-
thing which threatens to affect the industrial, social and educational
welfare of .the American people. " Once encompass China with a net-
work of railroads and steamer services, the size of the labor market
to be tapped is so stupendous that it might well absorb in its develop-
ment all the spare capital and business energy the advanced European
nations and the United States can supply for generations." 6 China and
the Chinese workers are a danger because of the low standards of living
which prevail in the Asiatic nation, and the consequent ease with which
the Chinese people may be exploited. If increased manufacturing and
commercial activity in China is not accompanied by a corresponding
increase in the standard of living, the American farmer and the
American workman are doubtless imperilled by the situation. The edu-
cational movement of the last two or three decades is essentially a
working class movement; and its future is bound up in the welfare
of the industrial and agricultural classes.
6 Hobson, "Imperialism," p. 334.
