558 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
THE DAWN OF QUADRUPEDS IN NORTH AMERICA
BY Dr. ROY L. MOODIE
THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
IN the early days of the physical sciences one who gave a common-
sense interpretation to a phenomenon of nature was looked upon
as dissenting from the accepted interpretation of things. It pleased
the people of the early days of science to regard natural phenomena
as something wonderful, as a divine creation or as something beyond
the comprehension of the human intellect. It has been less than two
centuries since men began to emerge from under this pall. The ad-
vance made in science constitutes one of the wonders of the age. It is
the purpose of this essay to record the progress of investigation in one
line of scientific research, and that is the one which leads up to a
knowledge of the ancestry of one group of the vertebrates.
The early observers of nature had curious suppositions in regard
to the nature of fossils. They regarded these objects, which were
common, as of various origins. Some claimed that they arose spon-
taneously in the rocks, others were of the opinion that they arose from
germs which had fallen from heaven, but the large majority believed the
fossils to be the remains of " an accursed race " whose existence had
been ended by the Noachian deluge. Early in the seventeenth century
collectors of natural objects became familiar with certain bodies which
were known as " glossopetrse." They were embedded in the rocks and
the manner of their entombment was a matter of considerable dispute.
In the first half of the seventeenth century, Fabio Colonna had tried
to convince his contemporaries that the " glossopetrse " were nothing
but shark's teeth. His arguments failed to carry conviction, however.
It was not until 1669 that Steno, a Dane by birth, though a teacher in
the schools of Florence, Italy, demonstrated by the dissection of a com-
mon shark's head that the " glossopetras " and the teeth of the shark
were identical. These results he published in a quaint little volume
entitled " De Solido intra Solidum naturaliter contento." 1 This was
the first application of the modern method of paleontological research
to the study of objects contained in the rocks. Later Cuvier continued
and extended the researches of Steno and from the time of the famous
investigator, Cuvier, to the present, our knowledge of the objects
entombed in the rocks has progressed rapidly.
Modern researches have carried our knowledge of the distribution
1 Huxley, T. H., 1881, " Science and Hebrew Tradition Essays," p. 29.
