THE DAWN OF QUADRUPEDS 559
and relationships of animals farther and farther back into geological
time. There was a time, not many decades ago, when people knew
nothing of the animals of the ancient days. During the life of Cuvier
the knowledge of extinct animals had not progressed much farther hack
into geological time than the Cretaceous or Jurassic. It was just four
years before his death that Jaeger made his important contribution to
the Triassic fauna of Europe by the description of the remains of
Mastodonsaurus, which he had in 1824 described as Ichthyosauri Sub-
sequent researches by a host of observers have carried our knowledge of
animals into an antiquity which had not been expected.
The animals which it is our purpose to treat here are the ancestors
of the modern Amphibia. There are few groups of vertebrates whose
phylogeny is more obscure than that of our common toads, frogs and
salamanders. It is the popular idea that these animals are unknown
back in geological time, but that they are of a rather recent origin. As
a matter of fact the present-day amphibians are the descendants of the
oldest group of vertebrated animals with the exception of the fishes.
Our knoAvledge of the fishes begins near the dawn of animal life on
earth, and their remains are preserved in the rocks of the Ordovician
age, just west of Canon City, Colorado, and in the Big Horn Moun-
tains, Wyoming. Our knowledge of the amphibians begins just two
ages later, and in the Devonian rocks of Pennsylvania are found the
earliest traces of quadrupeds on earth. These evidences consist in foot-
prints found by Isaac Lea in 1849 and the announcement of his dis-
covery was given to the British Association for the Advancement of
Science by Buckland in that year. These footprints represent a rather
large animal which may have attained a length of several feet. The
footprints were found impressed in the " Old Red Sandstone " of Penn-
sylvania which forms a part of the Catskill formation of that state.
Marsh, forty-seven years later, announced the discovery of similar
footprints from the same horizon and near the same locality but does
not mention the discoveries of Lea. From these tracks in the Devonian
to the deposits in the Allegheny series of the Pennsylvanian our knowl-
edge of the Amphibia is a blank. There is not a trace recorded of any
amphibians in the rocks of the Mississippian or in the Pottsville of the
Pennsylvanian.
In the Allegheny series, there are several deposits in the United
States, and probably one in Canada, which have produced remains of
the early quadrupeds. The principal localities are in Illinois, Pennsyl-
vania and Ohio. From the last named state great numbers of these
paleontological treasures have been recovered and are preserved in the
museums of the east. The most interesting place which has kept for
us a record of the amphibian life of this far-off time is a deposit of coal
in the eastern part of Ohio in the northern part of Jefferson county.
