THE DAWN OF QUADRUFEDS 561
When in the Inter ages of the existence of this old Lake its waters
became filled with vegetation and it had acquired the characters of a
marsh there came a disturbance in the earth's crust and the lake was
again submerged, and on its bottom was formed the thick stratum of
good coal which is now known to geologists as the " Ohio No. 6." This
coal was formed over the graves of the earliest quadrupeds. Here
through the vast stretches of geological time thev lav in their coaly
bed. After many, many eons of time the descendants of animals which
bad been their contemporaries came with tools fashioned with their
fore feet to dig out the coal to keep their naked bodies warm. These
were men and to these miners Ave owe a debt of gratitude for thus
bringing to light these treasures of the earliest quadrupeds.
There was a man in the days when these coal mines were being
worked who appreciated the opportunity of collecting the remains of
these creatures and he deserves far more credit than the miners wdio
delved in the ground for the coal. This was Dr. J. S. Newberry, whose
name is to be ever associated with the first investigators into the history
of the primitive quadrupeds of this continent. Through his knowledge
of the geology of the region in which the mine was located he realize 1,
as no other did, the importance of gathering these remains as rapidly
as possible. The result was worthy of the exertion. The mines have
now long since been deserted, the village of Linton has gone out of
existence and even the spot where the mines were located is difficult to
find, so Dr. Hussakof tells me. Newberry's collection of the early
quadrupeds is now in the American Museum of Natural History of
New York City, and it will stand as a monument to the zeal of one of
the early investigators into the " Eotetrapoda "' of North America.
Newberry's collections have, for the most part been described by Cope,
who has done more on the morphology of the extinct Amphibia than
any other investigator in North America.
Dr. Newberry found the first recognized amphibian in the Linton
deposits in 1856. The next year Dr. Wyman read a note on the speci-
men before the meeting of the American Association and the next year
he published a description of the form under the name Raniceps lyelli.
It was necessary to change the name Raniceps, so ten years later Dr.
Wyman proposed in its stead the term Pelion and the form is still
known as the Pelion lyelli Wyman. This is perhaps one of the most
extraordinary of all of the Amphibia which have came from these
deposits (Fig. 1). It was thought by Wyman, and later by Cope, that
the form had the characters of the modern frogs and in its general
appearance it certainly shows great resemblances to the modern frogs,
especially in the shape of its head and the length of the hind leg, which
Cope seems not to have observed. Among the other forms collected by
Newberry is the form shown in Fig. 2. One half of the slab containing
VOL. LXXII. — 36.
