THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE
5 6 7
THE PEOGEESS OF SCIENCE
THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF
SCIENCES AXD THE AMERICAN
PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The scientific meetings held at
Washington and Philadelphia during
the third week of April offered pro-
grams of interest and were pleasant
events for those able to attend them.
Neither of these societies is exactly
in touch with democratic institutions
or is able to adjust itself to the dif-
ferentiation of science, but they have
shown in recent years more vitality
than might have been expected. The
National Academy has taken steps to
make its scientific programs of greater
general interest and has enlarged its
membership, so that instead of at most
five new members elected annually
there may now be ten. The American
Philosophical Society has within the
past few years resumed to a certain
extent the national character which it
possessed when Philadelphia was the
chief scientific center of the country.
Its annual general meetings bring to-
gether a considerable group of men of
science from different parts of the
country, and the meeting two years
ago to celebrate the bicentenary of the
birth of Franklin, its founder, was
probably the most elaborate and suc-
cessful scientific celebration ever held
in this country.
At the meeting of the National
Academy in Washington there were
twenty papers on the program, twelve
by members and eight on introduction.
Several of the papers were elaborately
illustrated with the lantern, the most
noteworthy slides being the extraor-
dinary enlargements of photographs of
cells, showing the chromosomes on
which the determination of sex de-
pends, made by Professor E. B. Wil-
son, of Columbia University. Other
illustrated papers were presented by '
Professor W. M. Davis, of Harvard
University, showing standard land
forms for a proposed international
atlas; by Professor W. B. Scott, of
Princeton University, on the age of
certain beds in Patagonia, with resto-
rations of Santa Cruz mammals by
Mr. C. R. Knight, of the American
Museum of Natural History, and by
Professor E. L. Mark, of Harvard Uni-
versity, on the Bermuda Biological
Station at Agar's Island. Mr. Alex-
ander Agassiz gave an account of the
pelagic fauna of Victoria Nyanza and
of the elevated reefs of Mombasa and
the adjacent coast, and Professor T.
C. Chamberlin, of the University of
Chicago, described atmospheres sup-
plementary to the one ordinarily con-
sidered. Then there were more tech-
nical papers. That such papers can be
made attractive was shown by the ac-
count by Professor W. G. MacCallum,
of the Jonns Hopkins University, of
the parathyroid glands in their rela-
tion to tetany and calcium metabolism,
and by the paper of Professor F. R.
Moulton, of the University of Chicago,
on the application of periodic solutions
of the problem of three bodies to the
motion of the moon. Other events of
the meeting were a visit to the newly
constructed and admirably equipped
geophysical laboratory of the Carnegie
Institution, an illustration of which
was shown in a recent issue of the
Monthly, and a lecture on solar re-
search, given under the auspices of the
Smithsonian Institution by Professor
George E. Hale, of the Mt. Wilson
Solar Observatory.
The new members elected were :
Edwin Brant Frost, director of the
Yerkes Observatory, University of Chi-
cago; William E. Storey, professor of
mathematics, Clark University; Ed-
ward F. Nichols, professor of physics,
