THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE
569
Columbia University; \Y. F. Hille-
brand, chemist in the U. S. Geological
Survey; Win. B. Clark, professor of
geology, the Johns Hopkins University;
Whitman Cross, geologist, U. S. Geolog-
ical Survey; E. G. Conklin, professor
of zoology, University of Pennsylvania,
professor-elect of biology, Princeton
University; Theobald Smith, professor
of comparative pathology, Harvard
.Medical School; Simon Flexner, di-
rector of the laboratories of the Rocke-
feller Institute for Medical Research.
At Philadelphia the program was
twice as long and even more diverse.
as the Philosophical Society includes
in its scope the historical and philo-
logical sciences. Of the forty-two
papers presented, it is possible to men-
tion only three or four. Professor C.
S. Minot, of Harvard University, dis-
cussed the differentiation of the proto-
plasm of the cell in its relation to
reproduction ; Professor H. S. Jennings,
of the Johns Hopkins University, de-
scribed experiments on inheritance
among the protozoa. Dr. C. B. Daven-
port, of the Cold Spring Harbor Labo-
ratory, considered the extent to which
Mendelian inheritance obtains; and
Professors E. T. Reichart and A. P.
Brown, of the University of Pennsyl-
vania, showed that the crystals of oxy-
hemoglobin from the blood of different
genera differ, and that even species can
be recognized by the crystals. Dr. H.
F. Osborn, president of the American
Museum of Natural History, gave a
lecture on the results of the Museum's
explorations in the Fayfun desert of
northern Egypt, preceding a reception
in the hall of the Pennsylvania His-
torical Society, and there was a con-
cluding dinner with speeches by the
( hinese minister and others.
DEDICATION' OF THE NEW BUILD-
INGS OF THE COLLEGE OF THE
CITY OF NEW YORK
The beautiful and well-planned
buildings of the College of the City
of New York were dedicated with cere-
monies adequate to the event on the
fourteenth of May. As shown in the
accompanying sketch, drawn by Mr.
Richard Rummell, they form a group
of buildings such as has rarely if ever
before been dedicated at one time to
academic purposes. The situation on
St. Nicholas Heights equals that of
Columbia University, a mile to the
south, and is less likely to be marred
by the encroachments of shops and
apartment houses. An institution of
this character, which embodies in its
external impressiveness as well as in
its work and aims civic duty and pride,
represents the best ideals of modern
civilization.
The College of the City of New York
is maintained by the people of the city
for the education of its young men,
and is in some respects unparalleled
in this country or elsewhere. Phila-
delphia and Baltimore have high
schools of nearly college rank, and
Cincinnati has a municipal university,
and these four institutions represent a
movement likely to become general
throughout the country. The College
of the City of New Y'ork, in view of
what it has already accomplished and
in view of the great population and
wealth of the city, seems destined to
take the lead in an educational ad-
vance likely to be as important for the
next generation as the evolution of the
state universities has been for the
present generation.
LEWIS HENRY MORGAN
Under the auspices of the National
Academy of Sciences there are pub-
lished biographical memoirs of its de-
ceased members. These documents are
of value for the history of science in
this country, but are not as widely
circulated or as well known as they
should be. Just published is a memoir
of Lewis Henry Morgan by Mr. \V. H.
Holmes, chief of the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology, which from several
points of view is of special interest.
Morgan, who was born in Aurora,
