THE MOaL'KSS OF SCfhWCE
57i
Family." This was followed by liis
important work on Ancient Society,"
which treats the growth of intelligence
through inventions and discoveries, of
government, of the family and of prop-
erty. He was also the author of works
on " Houses and House-life of the Am-
erican Algonquins " and on " The Am-
erican Beaver."
Morgan bequeathed most of his prop-
erty to the University of Rochester for
the higher education of woman. His
anthropological works led him to say:
" Democracy in government, brother-
hood in society, equality in rights and
privileges, and universal education
foreshadow the next higher plane of
society to which experience, intelli-
gence and knowledge are steadily tend-
ing. It will be a revival, in a higher
form, of the liberty, equality and fra-
ternity of the ancient gentes. Morgan
was not only a pioneer and leader in
the study of the American Indians,
but one of the founders of ethnology,
a science likely to become dominant in
the course of the present century.
THE SARGENT ANNIVERSARY
MEDAL
The former students and friends of
Dudley Allen Sargent, A.M., Sc.D.,
M.D., director of the Hemenway Gym-
nasium, Harvard University, have pre-
sented him with a bronze medallion.
The medallion, designed by Dr. R. Tait
McKenzie, has above the face of Dr.
Sargent the words " Dudley Allen Sar-
gent, Pioneer in Physical Education,
1907," while on the reverse is a row
of five Harvard seals below the words,
" A Recognition by his Friends and
Students." Two hundred and thirty
persons contributed to the medallion
fund. A plaster model of the medal-
lion and a bound volume containing
the autographs of the contributors to
the fund were presented to Dr. Sargent
by Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick at the
twenty-fifth commencement of the Sar-
gent Normal School of Physical Train-
ing held in Sandars Theater, June 1,
1907. The bronze medallion was fin-
ished recently and presented to Dr.
Sargent. The Sargent medallion com-
mittee is having struck a limited num-
ber of copies of the medal. These are
to be presented to President Roosevelt,
Secretary William Taft, Major General
Bell. Governor Curtis Guild and Book-
er T. Washington, who were all stu-
dents under Dr. Sargent.
SCIENTIFIC ITEMS
We record with regret the death of
Dr. Robert Chalmers, of the Canadian
Medal Struck in honor of Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent.
