572
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Geological Survey, and of Professor
Franz von Leydig, the eminent zool-
ogist of Bonn University.
The body of Emmanuel Swedenbourg
has been removed from the Swedish
church in London, where it was buried
on his death in 1772, and taken by a
Swedish man-of-war to Stockholm,
wnere it will be interred. — By the will
of Lord Kelvin, Lady Kelvin is ap-
pointed sole executrix, and all his
property is bequeathed to her. Accord-
ing to the inventory, the value of the
property is over $800,000. — The bill
providing a pension of $125 monthly
each to the widows of Drs. James Car-
roll and Jesse W. Lazear has passed
the congress by a unanimous vote.
Professor Frederick F. Jones, dean
of the College of Engineering and
Mechanical Arts in the University of
Minnesota, has been elected dean of
the academic faculty of Yale Univer-
sity. Professor Jones graduated from
Yale College in 1884 and has been con-
nected with the University of Minne-
sota since 1S85. — At the University of
YV isconsin Professor Carl C. Thomas,
now head of the department of marine
engineering of Cornell University, lias
been elected to the professorship of
steam engineering made vacant by the
death of Storm Bull.
The Boston Society of Natural His-
tory has awarded the Walker grand
honorary prize of one thousand dollars
to Dr. Grove Karl Gilbert, of the
Unitea States Geological Survey. This
award is made once in five years under
the terms of the will of the late Will-
iam Johnson Walker, a benefactor of
the society, " for such scientific investi-
gation or discovery in natural history
as the council may think deserving
thereof; provided such investigation or
discovery shall have first been made
known and published in the United
States of America." The previous re-
cipients of the Walker grand prize
have been : Alexander Agassiz, Joseph
Leidy, James Hall, James D. Dana,
Samuel H. Scudder and Joel A. Allen.
— The Rumford medal of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences has been
awarded to Dr. Edward G. Acheson,
of Niagara Falls, for his work with
the electric furnace. — Dr. William H.
Walker, professor of technical chem-
istry at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, has been presented by the
New York Section of the American
Chemical Society with the Nichols
medal.
