FARM TENANCY 4
In England the detrimental effects of farm tenancy that have been
mentioned are in a large degree removed by the long periods which
tenants occupy the same lands; father, son and grandson occupy the
same farm throughout their lifetime, and the land owners are satisfied
with a low per cent, of interest on their investment and have no thought
of changing their tenants. Under such conditions there is little chance
for a farm tenant to become a farm owner, and, in most cases, little
desire.
In the north central states of the United States it is becoming more
difficult for the farm tenant to become a land owner; prices of farm
real estate have advanced so that it is becoming more and more difficult
for the farm hand to own a farm. On the other hand, the present
farms are passing from father to son by inheritance, and why should
the per cent, of farms operated by owners decrease if one son in each
family remained on the homestead, or one daughter in each family
married a farmer and took up the management of the homestead?
Senator Morrill in his speech before congress in behalf of the land
grant colleges, in 1858, said that, " The nation which tills the soil so
as to leave it worse than they found it is doomed to decay and degrada-
tion." When these words were uttered, there seemed to be an endless
expanse of public lands that only awaited the pioneer's plow to yield
their virgin fertility; these lands have now been practically all taken
up, and it is doubly important that the fertility of our soils should be
preserved'. The very fact that tenancy of farm lands tends to deplete
their fertility is sufficient reason for a general interest in the subject.
Much has been written and said about the movement from country
to city, and many causes have been assigned for it, but it has been the
natural result of the introduction of labor-saving machinery and im-
proved means of transportation, and fewer persons are required to carry
on agriculture than formerly. However, this does not account for the
decline in farm owners, and the problem still remains.
Legislation can do something to make it easier to own land than
at present. The removal of taxes on mortgaged farms, the establish-
ment of a better credit system, so that money can be borrowed more
readily and more cheaply for the purchase of farm lands than is the
case at the present time, would greatly add to the ability of young
farmers buying their own farms.
Education that will teach a more rational system of agriculture and
a greater appreciation of the possibilities of the farm and farm life will
do much to counteract the tendency of farm boys to leave the farm
lands that they have inherited to seek employment in the city.
