48 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
It may not be amiss here to state that a severe criticism of Emmens's
" Argentaurum Papers " appeared in Science the same year, written
by Dr. E. S. Woodward. The libel suit instituted against the critic
and Dr. J. McKeen Cattell, the " responsible editor," however, never
came to issue.
A number of cases are on record illustrating the methods pursued
in selling secret processes for the manufacture of gold. Accounts of
many of these are in my possession as a result of the assiduous search
on the part of my private assistant, Mr. W. A. Hamor. A recounting
of them is scarcely suitable here. Suffice it to sa} r , that a careful
analysis of the motives actuating and methods pursued presents merely
an inferior picture of the perfected practises we are gradually learning
of as obtaining in that circle termed " high finance."
Among many communications reaching the writer, one is of more
than passing interest. Mr. E. M. Hunter, of Philadelphia, has written
concerning " synthetic gold " as follows :
I have so perfected the process that in my judgment, based upon my actual
experience, gold may be manufactured at enormous profit, and to this end I have
designed a plant to be erected in Philadelphia and am at this moment nego-
tiating for the $500,000 capital for its erection. I realize that the public and
most scientific men are adverse to belief in the possibility of such an enterprise,
but I know what I am doing and can afford to allow public sentiment to follow
its own course.
Enclosed with the letter was an affirmative affidavit. On request,
Mr. Hunter promptly forwarded me samples of silver in which the
gold is " growing " and some " grown-up " gold, said to have been
produced by his secret process. I have not made analyses of the
samples, which are here exhibited.
Any discussion of the transmutation of the elements must involve
a clear understanding of what Ave mean by the term element. By
agreement, chemists regard an element as a substance which shows a
characteristic spectrum and a definite combining weight. That such
characterization is inadequate, that the ground upon which the char-
acterization is founded may be shifting sand, and not the firm rock
we are wont to liken it to, need not involve the present topic, as the
agreed basis suffices for our purpose. 10
Work on transmutation has by no means been limited to efforts to
prepare the noble metals. Fittica's 11 investigations on the action of
ammonium compounds on phosphorus in the presence of air led him
to the conclusion that a true transformation of phosphorus into arsenic
takes place, and that arsenic appears to be a nitro-oxygen compound of
phosphorus, namely, PjST 2 0. The formation of arsenic from phos-
10 These matters are thoroughly discussed in a forthcoming work by the
writer from the press of John Wiley and Sons.
11 F. Fittica, Leopoldina, 36, 40; Chemiker-Zeitung, 1900, 24, 483; Chemical
News, 81, 257.
