50 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Eamsay and Soddy, and later confirmed by Indrikson, by Debierne,
by Curie and Dewar, by Giesel and by Himstedt and Meyer. Helium,
a conventional element which is devoid of any evidence of chemical
affinity, is produced by or from radium, a conventional element, but
the most active substance known. This occurs when the emanation is
dry, and we have reason for assuming that the emanation may in
reality be an active allotropic form of helium, as ozone is of oxygen.
Eecentty we have been thoroughly aroused again by Eamsay, who
in collaboration with Cameron 23 has not only verified the above state-
ment, but proved that when the emanation is allowed to traverse its
downward career in the presence of water, neon and not helium is the
gas produced. If the degradation of the emanation be in the presence
of a solution of a pure copper salt, sulphate or nitrate, argon and no
helium is produced. The emanation becomes one conventional ele-
ment or another, dependent upon its environment. Helium, neon and
argon, with the respective weights, 4, 20 and 40, are produced from
the supposititious allotrope of the one with the lowest atomic weight.
We know of no case in which any one of these three obtained from
other sources has been converted into the other; nor have we been
informed as to whether or not the neon and argon thus produced from
the emanation subsequently change into helium.
In this connection it may be stated that Meigen, 24 calling attention
to the amount of energy set free in the formation of helium — about
10 9 great calories for a gram-atom of helium — states that any attempts
at reversing this process are rendered hopeless. Nothing is hopeless
in science. In fact, many of Ramsay's most fruitful researches have
been in the investigation of the unlikely. Can it be, on the other hand,
however, that the emanation is in reality a compound of these gases
which are characterized by their inertness? Those who have worked
with compounds of the rarer elements well know that their scission
follows one direction or another, dependent upon ever so slight varia-
tions in procedure. If the emanation be, in fact, a compound, which is
not likely, it is an endothermic compound involving energy with an
order of magnitude far beyond anything with which we are familiar in
ordinary chemical reactions. The total heat given off by one cubic
centimeter of emanation is equal to about ten million gram calories,
or nearly four million times as much heat as produced by the explosion
of 1 c.c. of hydrogen and % c.c. oxygen.
Eamsay determined the presence of these gases by their spectral
conduct. There can be no question of Eamsay's facts, for it is to be
assumed that he took the precaution of having the minute quantities
of the gases obtained and those in the comparison tubes under similar
23 Journal Chemical Society (London), 91, 1605 (1907).
u Nature, 73, 389 (1906).
