SOME RECENT TRANSMUTATIONS 51
pressure, although he does not make that plain. Keeler 25 has called
attention to the five spectra of oxygen which differ so widely in their
appearance that there is no indication that they belong to the same
substance.
Perhaps the most remarkable portion of this last work of Eamsay,
the full account of which, just published, reads like a story of magic,
had to do with the solutions of the copper salts in which the emanation
performed its devolutions. These solutions after the removal of the
copper showed the presence of lithium, the smallest metallic member
of the first family in the periodic classification. So careful an experi-
menter as Eamsay of course took precautions to prove the absence of
lithium in any of the apparatus or chemicals used by blank tests.
The facts indicate decomposition, " degradation," as Eamsay put
it, and not composition, synthesis. He makes no claim to what has
generally been understood by the laity as transmutation, namely, the
conversion of silver into gold.
The emanation, in passing through its transformations, evolves
much the greater portion of the energy produced by radium and its
educts. Metaphysicians, among whom are many of the most matter-
of-fact men of science, have long speculated upon the constitution of
matter. Time and again it has been urged that the heavy chemical
elements would eventually be broken down into lighter ones. All that
was needed was sufficient energy, or the right kind of energy, properly
applied. Up to the time of Eamsay' s work no successfully undisputed
experimental facts have been offered in substantiation of these philo-
sophic considerations. Can it be that we have Bacon's " Philosopher's
stone " in the form of a storehouse of concentrated energy, the
emanation ?
It is evident in this limited communication that many omissions
have had to be made. I have purposely avoided the complication, which
would be introduced by a discussion of the attractive electronic theory
of matter. Nor has there been a desire to depict the acrobatic cerebra-
tions of French hylozoists, although Ostwald, perhaps the greatest
teacher of chemistry to-day, captains the energistic propaganda.
25 Scientific American Supplement, 88, 977 (1894).
