52 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
THE EULE OP THE ROAD
By GEORGE M. GOULD, M.D.
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
THE localization through war and barter of the cerebral centers of
speech and writing (and hence of intellect) of 98 per cent, of
the population in the left half-brain is the cause of right-handedness. 1
The increase of the necessary differentiation of bodily and mental
function by the coordination of associated cerebral centers has resulted
in a general right-handedness, right-eyedness, etc., the data by vision,
audition, and for action of the right leg and foot for associated function,
compelling a location of all these centers in the same left-brain and
closely linked with the determining faculty of speech and writing. With
the two per cent, of left-handed, the reverse of all this takes place.
The mystery of the origin of right-handedness is thus cleared up.
With this explanation manifest the other concurrent mystery of the
rule of the road is of easy solution. Eight-handedness, plus the variant
circumstances of civilization, the reaction of the right-handed organ-
ism to the environment (in the language of evolution), explains all
the puzzles of the rule of the road.
Primitive war, as Homer, chivalry, and present-day savage customs
demonstrate, regardless of the number of combatants, was a matter of
individual encounter, of hand-to-hand conflict. Even when archery,
and throwing of spears, javelins, etc., came into use the essential in-
dividualism was not changed, and the shielding of the left side, and
aggressive use of the right hand continued. All military tactics and
drill of numbers was then established as right-handed, down to the
most minute particular — and so continues, indeed, although the flung
weapon weighs a thousand pounds instead of one or two pounds, and is
thrown five miles instead of twenty or fifty feet. After the Trojan
war, chariots fell more and more into disuse, and cavalry began to take
their place, but this in no way changed the evolution of right-handed
tactics. In Alexander's time the right flank of the phalanx was the
post of honor, called the head, the left the tail, and marches and
movements were made by the right. The commander had his station
on the right. So strongly established was right-handedness as early
as the half-legendary Amazonian times, that the Amazon had her right
breast excised in order that she might hurl the javelin and shoot
the arrow with greater freedom and accuracy.
1 See Popular Science Monthly, August, 1904.
