THE RULE OF TEE BO AD 55
The English rule of the road as to vehicles obtains on the continent
only in some Swiss cantons next to Italy, and in Italy. Nowhere,
apparently, do foot-passengers, in meeting, ever pass to the left. The
method of passing when overtaking another wagon or carriage is also
a result of that adopted in meeting. If wagons pass to the right they
overtake to the left, and vice versa. The rule of all nations at sea,
including the English, is uniform — Port your helm ! — i. e., pass to the
right! This international rule was settled in 1862, yet Harper's
" Book of Facts " says that near Great Britain alone there were in the
six years ending 1895, some 13,000 collisions at sea.
The English rule of the road was of course socially recognized long
in advance of any formal laws or decisions on the subject. So far as
I can learn, the first Act of Parliament was enacted in 1835, and reads
as follows:
Any person driving any carriage whatsoever, or riding any horse or other
animal, who meeting any other carriage or horse or other animal, shall not keep
his carriage or horse or other animal on the left or near side of the road or
street, or, if passing any other carriage or horse or other animal going in the
same direction shall not in all cases where it is practicable go and pass to the
right or off side of such other carriage or horse or other animal, shall be liable
to a fine not exceeding 10 shillings.
Any person riding any horse, and leading any other horse, who shall not
keep such led horse on the side farthest away from any carriage or person
passing him on any public road or in any street of a town shall bo liable to a
fine not exceeding 10 shillings. (In 14 and 15 Vict. Cap. 92, Sec. XIII.)
The led horse, and especially if the man is himself mounted, re-
quires the man's right hand in leading on the halter of the led horse.
Another evident reason why the led horse should be at the right edge
of the road is to avoid dangers, both to the led horse and to the ap-
proaching person, if the led horse were to pass in the center of the
road, and thus graze the passing vehicle, man, or animals.
The universal ancient custom, derived from military drill and
right-handed habit, of passing to the right, was therefore unexception-
ally continued by all nations except two — England and Italy — and in
these two it was continued as to sea-going vessels, as to led horses, and
as to foot-passengers. But by these two nations the strange exception is
found that vehicles pass to the left. Why ?
The suggestion has been made that in England and Italy the dili-
gences, and post-coaches, had to be protected from highwaymen and
brigands and this was done by armed postilions; these sat, of course,
on the near or left-hand horses, because they were right-handed men
(and thus mounted from the left side of the horse), and also because
in driving the left hand held the rein while the right hand was kept
free to handle the firearms. The theory is that they passed to the left
in order the better to fight the highwaymen, who were thus kept on the
