56 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
right side. This explanation is scarcely explanatory. Were highway-
men not as common in other countries as in Italy and England?
Could they not and would they not as footmen attack from the left
side of the road as well as from the right? Usage so widespread
must have a far more generally acting and ancient habit behind it than
this of robbery. All such habits as the rule of the road must have
sprung from many and more primitive and humble origins, from the
necessities or customs of the common people, in fact, whence as here
the few later diligences and post-coaches derived their habits. The
conscious legal enactment is merely the late acceptance of centuries of
unconscious custom. If suddenly springing into existence, a general
change must be the response to a new circumstance of powerful and
general application.
Contributing customs or necessities may have cooperated to effect
the change in Italy and England from the natural passage of vehicles
to the right, making them pass to the left, while foot-passengers, ves-
sels, etc., continued to pass to the right. But it has been overlooked
that before vehicles had come into use horseback-riding must have set
the fashion in passing because the riding of horses, asses, mules, etc.,
must have long preceded the existence of the wheeled vehicle of any
kind. For perhaps a thousand years (as now in a large part of the
earth's surface) it must have been impossible for transportation of
goods or men to be effected by wagons, and only by horses, pack-mules,
etc. During this time the rule of the road must have been fixed pretty
rigidly, especially as the narrow " trail " or path would not every-
where allow meeting riders to pass, but only in certain wider or more
open spaces. In all civilized countries, except the two mentioned, the
fact that subsequent customs demand the passage to the right shows
that, during the preceding centuries, the ridden horses and pack-
animals must have passed to the right. One can scarcely doubt that
the ridden horses of England and Italy did the same. This seems
only to deepen the mystery of their contrary practise to-day.
The mystery, I suspect, is resolved by the forgotten fact of the tre-
mendous, fashion-setting, and centuries-long influence of chivalry with
its tourneys, joustings, and knightly battles on horseback, with ax,
sword, spear, tilting lance or pole. Those who have studied and real-
ize the vast domination of chivalry can easily comprehend the role it
played as its vogue after centuries melted into plebeian tilling the soil,
commercialism, and roads covered with wagons, coaches, etc. The
horseback fights and mock-battles of the troubadours, minnie signers,
knights, and aristocrats of these centuries were possible only by the
contestants meeting and passing to the left. It is needless to illustrate
the fact from histories of chivalry, from medieval legends, tales, ad-
ventures, etc., whether of the Arthurian cycle, or Ariosto, or a hundred
