58 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
passing to the fact that the early drivers walked on the left of the
horses, and consequently they passed to the left to avoid being ground
between the two sets of wheels. King Arthur and Tristram and their
fellows had settled that, one judges, a thousand years previously.
Why did the American colonists from England reverse the rule
of the mother country as to vehicles passing to the left ? That is the
remaining riddle which has perplexed every writer upon the subject.
There seems to be no exception, the Virginia colonists, who were so
largely horseback-riders, developed the rule of passing to the right as
spontaneously as the New Englanders. In Canada there appears to
have been a noteworthy indecision in earlier days; in some places, as
Toronto and St. John, New Brunswick, the English custom prevailed.
My reports are that to-day the American custom, if we may so name
it (passing to the right) is being increasingly adopted.
The change of the colonists to the American practise has been
credited to the necessity of keeping to the right in snow-drifted road-
ways — surely an invalid argument from evident reasons. The use of
ox-teams is also said to have brought the change about. This was
perhaps a minor contributory cause, but, like the preceding, will not
explain the spontaneity and universality of the American habit. An-
other explanation that has been offered for our passing to the right is
that in early days of narrow and depressed roads the driver could the
better judge of the danger from the bank or " lift " of the roadway
on the right. Lastly, it has been suggested that lurking savages in
the woods at the sides (both sides) of the road made the change of
practise. But just how either cause compelled the colonial wagoners
to pass to the right, or how they bettered their condition by doing so,
one vainly tries to discover.
The real explanation of the change comes to light in a more careful
observation and history of the actual facts and conditions of the
colonial immigrants. In the first place, they were not in the beginning
even preponderatingly English. We appear prone to forget that the
first Puritan settlers were mostly Dutch, to which France quickly
added her complement, both of continental or right-passing people.
Then it must be remembered that the long first period of settlement
was not only wagonless, but even horseless, and even English folk when
afoot had never ceased to be right-passers. The ox-team, the ridden
horse and the led horse were the first means of transportation, and
all these methods would insure the beginnings of the customs of right-
passing and soon establish it as the rule. It must have been a long
and fashion-fixing period before the wheeled vehicle could have come
into any general use to meddle with the already established custom of
right passing. Most powerful too must have been the dominating
