GOLD 65
GOLD
By THEODORE F. VAN WAGENEN, E.M.
DENVER, COLO.
MUCH of the romance and glamor that in former times attached
itself to the mental concept and the actuality of gold has
passed away, partially because the yellow metal is becoming so common
among civilized people, but mainly because in the hurry of modern
life we have so many other things to think of. We take it much as a
matter of course, just as we do our electric lights, telephones, wireless
telegrams and other modern marvels. Yet there is a potentiality
and uniqueness in gold that is possessed by no other natural or artificial
product in the world, not even diamonds; namely, its apparently un-
changeable value.
So far as words and terms go, an ounce of fine gold has been worth
among civilized people, and at any time during the last one hundred
years, just $20.67, or its equivalent in English, German or French
money, and no less, though at times a little more. No other substance
that the reader can mention has acquired this characteristic. Violent
fluctuations have occurred in the price of every commodity or product.
Wheat has ranged from $1.00 to $3.00 per quarter, -wool from 4 cents
to 20 cents per pound, copper from $200 to $600 per ton, etc. Even
diamonds have ranged from $10 to $50 per carat.
But through all these changes gold has been steadily at one price.
At least one could always get the equivalent of $20.67 per ounce for
it in coin. Why? Because, by legislative action, all the great nations
have agreed to accept it from any source and in unlimited quantity,
at their mints, and to transform it into coins of definite weight and
purity, at a mere nominal charge to cover the expenses of the operation.
This is what is meant by the free and unlimited coinage of gold.
Each civilized nation works up the metal into coins in a way of its own,
but all upon the same fundamental principles, and from the same start-
ing point. The result is that the gold coins of the world have a defi-
nite and unvarying value in terms of themselves. Thus, the English
sovereign always contains just so many grains of chemically pure
gold, and so also does the French louis the American eagle, and the
German 20-mark piece, the balance being a base metal (usually copper)
that is added because gold is a soft metal and would quickly suffer
loss in weight if put into circulation in a pure state.
Even the resulting alloy is not so hard as the mints would like it
vol. lxxii. — 5.
