66 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
to be, for if you put a score of gold coins in a buckskin bag, and shake
them up vigorously for a few hours, you will find that each has lost
slightly in weight in the operation ; and in the bag, in the shape of fine
particles, will be the gold that has been rubbed from each coin by
contact with its neighbor.
This is what is called " coin sweating," and if you try it to prove
whether my statement is correct or not, do so by yourself and keep the
matter dark, for it is against the laws of all countries, and punishable
by as severe penalties as those meted out to the counterfeiter. For in
appearance the coin will not be altered by a moderate amount of
such treatment, and if a man should steadily employ himself in the
operation, and could be continually getting a stock of fresh coins to
operate on, he might be able to accumulate as much as fifty cents' worth
of gold dust per day as the result of his labors.
But it will not do to confuse in one's mind the metal gold with the
coin gold. For while the former under the existing laws has an ab-
solutely unchangeable value, expressed in terms of money, the gold
coins of different nations vary continually in value as expressed in
terms of each other. Thus, the English sovereign fluctuates from
$4.82 to $4.89 in American money, and the other European gold
coins all vary likewise. This is due, of course, to the exigencies
of international exchange, and to the fact that each coin is legal tender
for the payment of a debt only in the nationality whose mint has
issued it. Thus, when an English wheat or cotton merchant has bought
a shipload of either of these commodities from an American producer
he can not pay for it in English coin, but must buy American coin to
discharge his debt. This he arranges through his bank, and if the de-
mand for American coin for the payment of such debts by Europeans
is active the price for the American dollar, as expressed in terms of
foreign coin, advances little by little until it reaches a point where the
English merchant (or his banker) will find it just as cheap to ship
sovereigns (or even uncoined bullion) over to America, take it to the
mint, have it melted and manufactured into American coins, and with
these discharge the obligation. When such a condition of affairs occurs
the gold-exporting point is said to have been attained in London, and
the gold-importing point in New York, and because of it you can never
tell whether the gold you hold in your hand, though bearing the God-
dess of Liberty on its face, has come from the mines of America or
from those of South Africa or China. But it makes no difference,
/or the inherent physical qualities of the metal are the same, no matter
at what place in the earth's crust it originated.
However, we are considering gold the metal, and not gold the coin,
and in again reverting to the subject it is necessary to call attention
to another very marked characteristic of the metal, which it shares
