68 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
It is fairly well settled that the gold of the ancients came mainly
from three places, namely, Asia Minor, southern India and South
Africa. In the first-mentioned locality it was principally obtained
by washing the banks and bars, and even the beds of certain streams,
while in the last two it seems to have come more largely from crushing
the outcrops of auriferous quartz veins. What is known as the Dekkan
region of the peninsula of Hindustan, and certain parts of the valleys
of the Limpopo and Zambesi, in South Africa, are dotted with the
remains of prehistoric excavations on such veins, some of which when
cleaned out show that the workers succeeded in penetrating in places
as much as two hundred feet into the earth ; while in the same neighbor-
hoods we find the relics of human structures whose age is certainly
only to be reckoned in terms of thousands of years. In India, after
many years of tribulation, a modern gold-mining industry has been
successfully reestablished on the basis of the old one, and in South
Africa the region now known as Ehodesia, where the ancients conducted
very extensive operations, is slowly undergoing the processes of re-
habitation.
Many of the rivers of Asia Minor were noted three to five thousand
years ago for the gold washed from their beds. Croesus, one of the
kings of Lydia, who became extremely wealthy through the working
with slaves of some of the stream beds of his kingdom, was one of the
celebrated actual characters of that country and those times, and the
river of Pactolus, whose golden sands are mentioned by several ancient
historians, was one of the most noted of its metal-bearing streams.
It is probable that in the prehistoric and early historic periods of
■civilization gold in some quantities (not large) came also from the
headwaters of the White Nile in Abyssinia, from southern Persia, from
some of the East Indian isles and from China. There is no evidence
that the Ural deposits in Eussia were known in those remote days, but
it seems very likely that a fair amount of the precious metal was ob-
tained from the flanks of the Atlas range of mountains in northern
Africa.
When I mention the ancients I mean that period of the world's
history (and all the unknown eras before it) that culminated in
Phoenician nationality, covering the Egyptian. Babylonian, Assyrian,
Hittite and Persian empires, and the vast but quiet civilization in
Hindustan, China and Japan. In the main the people of those days
were Asiatics and Africans, and belonged to the Semitic and Turanian
races, though the Persians and Hindoos were more or less Aryan in
race and language and northern in temperament.
About 1000 B.C., when Greek nationality began to assume a com-
manding position, and when most of the older southern empires had
passed their prime, when, in fact, the day of Europe was beginning
