GOLD 69
and that of Asia and Africa was declining, there was, according to his-
tory, a very marked decrease in the supply of gold coming into the
channels of civilization. The southern African and Indian fields
seem to have been deserted, probably because the nation that appears
to have conducted operations in these localities (the Phoenician) lost
its predominance. Gold gradually became scarce, and its place in
business life was largely taken by silver, which came in enormous
quantities to the Grecian and Eoman world of the period of 1000 B.C.
to 500 B.C., first from the mines of Greece, and later from those of
Italy and Spain.
The placer-mining regions of Asia Minor had either become ex-
hausted, or, what is much more likely, the industry was ruined by the
continual wars that occurred in the days when Asia and Europe were
contending with each other for supremacy in that rich and rugged land.
During the early centuries of our own era, when Eome was in its
prime, we hear very little of gold mining, and it is extremely likely
that the greater part of the yellow metal that was accumulated by the
Eomans came from the spoliation of older civilizations. When Eome
ceased to be a dominating factor in the history of the world, and its
vast empire was split into numerous small states, mining as an in-
dustry, and particularly gold mining, suffered greatly, and the Grecian
and Italian and Spanish silver mines ceased production almost entirely.
It was this fact that ultimately caused the establishment of the
institution of banks in northern Italy, the then commercial center of
the world, and it is a curious fact that these banks were not places
where coined money was deposited or dealt in, but where credits were
established and maintained. Thus the great bank of Venice, which
for 600 years (800 a.d. to 1400 a.d.) was really the heart of the com-
mercial world of the day, was little more than a great bookkeeping
establishment, where the trade between Europe and Asia was kept in
balance by a system of transfer of credits, these credits being based
upon the actual possession by the principal traders of the time of the
merchandise in which they dealt.
Gold coin in the middle ages almost disappeared from circulation,
and silver coins were debased by the governments with lead and zinc
and tin until they were current only at enormous discount. In the
middle of this period the precious-metal mines of central Europe were
discovered, but they yielded mainly silver, and not much of that, so
that in the fifteenth century, just before the discovery of the New
World by Columbus, commercial Europe was really in great need of
coin metal.
In 1492 the western continent was discovered, and in 1498 the
Portuguese navigator, Vasco da Gama, first made the passage to the
East Indies by way of the Cape of Good Hope, and almost simulta-
