7 o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
neously other navigators of the same nationality landed on the eastern
coast of South America and took possession of the country for the
throne of Portugal, under the name of Brazil.
History tells what a marvelous change came over Europe as the
spoils from the East Indies, consisting mainly of gold and precious
stones, and the silver and gold from Mexico and Peru, began to flow
into the channels of trade. This was intensified when the Brazilian
gold fields (placers) were opened in 1675, and under the impetus of
this fresh and enormous volume of new circulating medium the modern
era began.
But as yet there was no such thing as an established precious-metal
mining industry. The millions that had come from Spanish America
and the East in the years between 1510 and 1700 were largely spoils,
or the result of crude operations on alluvial deposits, and when the
flood began to slacken Europe fell on hard times again, like a young
rake that had lived beyond his income. This brought on the era of
dissatisfaction that caused the beginning of emigration among the
French, English and Dutch to North America, resulting in the parti-
tion of the continent among these races, and the formation of the
American republic and the colony of Canada, where up to the middle
of the nineteenth century (less than seventy years ago) gold coin was
almost unknown, and the real medium of exchange was mainly the
Mexican silver dollar.
In 1849 the gold fields of California and Australia were almost
simultaneously discovered, and during the following ten years more
of the precious metal was produced and turned into the channels of
trade than had come from the earth for a thousand years previously.
But as most of this was derived from alluvial diggings that were
quickly exhausted it was really not until 1860 that the modern indus-
try of gold mining began.
Placer or surface mines, where the gold exists in the form of fine
grains or dust, are productive and profitable for a time, but are short-
lived, while vein or reef mines that extend indefinitely into the earth
are permanent, and when these began to be attacked, and machinery
was devised to crush the quartz, and quicksilver employed to gather
and catch the golden grains, and when finally a smelting industry came
into existence, so that the so-called refractory ores could be treated and
their precious contents recovered, then and not till then did gold mi-
ning become a well-defined business, and the production of the metal
fairly constant and regular.
It is a marvelous tale, this history of gold, and wrapped up with
it are clues to many obscure points in the story of civilization. For,
as the blood to the human system, so has gold been in the commercial
world, the circulating medium carrying life to all parts of the social
and political organizations that men have constructed.
