9 6
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
fresh-water rhizopods and on other
lower forms. In 1847 he discovered
the trichina in the hog, and his " Flora
and Fauna within Living Animals " is
a classic on this subject. His work
covered an immense range. He was
well informed in botany and in min-
eralogy, and was master of the whole
field of zoology, anatomy and paleon-
tology, both on the side of the labora-
tory and of nature. The complications
of modern science make it unlikely that
there will be another man of his type.
Men must now be more specialized
and smaller, and this seems to hold
to a certain extent for character as
well as for scientific work. Leidy was
not only a great naturalist, but also
a great man — simple, kind, generous
and just.
SCIENTIFIC ITEMS
We regret to record the death of
Professor Asaph Hall, the eminent
American astronomer.
Nobel prizes have been awarded as
follows: In physics to Professor A. A.
Michelson, of the University of Chi-
cago; in chemistry to Professor Eduard
Buchner, of the Berlin Agricultural
School ; in medicine to M. Laveran, of
Paris; in literature to Mr. Rudyard
Kipling, and for the promotion of peace
to M. Renault and M. Moneta. — The
Copley medal of the Royal Society has
been awarded to Professor A. A. Michel-
son, of the University of Chicago, and
the Davy medal to Professor Edward
Morley, emeritus professor of chemistry
of Western Reserve University. — Pro-
fessor Simon Newcomb has been elected
a foreign member of the Gottingen
Academy of Sciences, Mr. Alexander
Agassiz of the Vienna Academy of
Sciences, and Dr. G. W. Hill and Pro-
fessor H. F. Osborn, foreign members
of the Edinburgh Royal Society.
An oil portrait of Professor James
Mills Peirce Perkins, professor of
mathematics at Harvard University
until his death in 1905, has been pre-
sented to the university by his sister.
— -A portrait of Professor Arthur
Schuster has been presented to Man-
chester University. It will be remem-
bered that Professor Schuster recently
retired from the active duties of the
chair of physics.
Me. Andrew Carnegie has added
two million dollars to the endowment
of the Carnegie Institution of Wash-
ington. Mr. A. J. Montague, of Vir-
ginia, and Mr. W. B. Parsons, of New
York, have been elected trustees of the
institution.
