A VISIT TO THE HANGCHOW BOUK 105
a village and large mandarin family boats were frequently met with.
The most curious of all the craft encountered, however, were the
cormorant fishermen's boats or rafts, with the berumpled and rather
miserable-looking black birds crouching upon them or swimming
alongside. Usually the fisherman was stamping rhythmically upon
a loose board in the stern and yulowing his boat at a fair pace. "some
of the birds swimming alongside w T ith a bobbing kind of motion in
unison with this stamping, and every now and then making a dive
for fish which were no doubt expected to be attracted by the boatman's
noise, though to judge from our observation the returns for all this
scheming were very meager.
Occasionally a grating sound under the bottom of the boat told us
that we were passing over the loose central portion of the reed and
bamboo fish-traps or wires which frequently extended completely across
the stream, but always with an apparently unoccupied reception or
storage compartment at one corner. At other times the progress of
our light craft was somewhat impeded by the heavy growths of water
weeds and cresses.
The banks of the canal are everywhere green and restful, and in
the case of the smaller by-ways are often completely overhung. We
have seen nothing finer of the same sort anywhere, the famous Fenways
of Boston not excepted. Bushes, great grasses, trees straight and
tall, dwarfish and crooked trees, laurel, graceful weeping willow,
flowering shrubs, and non-flowering covered with some blooming vine —
the whole a beautiful fenway for mile after mile.
The predominant feature is the mulberry-tree, showing everywhere
the importance of this region as a silk producer. In well-kept rows,
their crooked and wide-spreading branches bid beneath rounded
canopies of huge pale-green leaves, the ground everywhere clear of other
growth, these little trees represent no small part of the material wealth
of a region famous for the splendid silken garments produced in its
chief cities.
These mulberry groves sometimes alternate with clumps of graceful
bamboos or spicy odorous pines, which mark the burial ground of the
near-by village. Or again there is only a fringe of mulberry trees
along the bank, much as the lichee trees occur in the delta near Canton,
with the paddy fields soon to become bean fields after the rice harvest,
or the lotus ponds all white and pink in their September glory, lying
behind this fringe or veil.
Haining was reached at eight p.m. in the midst of a pouring rain.
Passing around the wall on two sides, our journey came to an end in
the cul de sac with which the canal abruptly terminates, near a some-
what picturesque gateway in the city wall. A five minutes' walk
from our mooring at the canal's end brought us to the sea wall and
