A VISIT TO THE HANGCHOW BOTH-: 107
currents in rivers, will enable the general reader to understand better
the phenomenon we are about to consider, and to appreciate its proper
place as compared with other more general and ordinary tidal phe-
nomena. This must be our justification for presenting here much
that can be found elsewhere and is already matter of common knowl-
edge, but which needs to be correlated and reviewed in this present
connection.
The discrepancies in the range of the tides at different places are
due chiefly to the local conformations of coasts and sea-beds. Indeed,
it seems, as Sir Eobert Ball has pointed out. that if the whole earth
were covered with a uniform and deep ocean of water, the tides would
be excessively feeble, since barometric records give no very distinct evi-
dence of tides in the atmosphere, which is a deep and vast ocean of
air embracing the whole earth to a practically uniform depth.
Along the borders of land areas the range of the tide is found to
vary from zero up to seventy feet. Few of us realize how small the
range is in some places, where at first sight we should expect it to be
considerable. In midocean, for instance, an island like St. Helena
is washed by a tide only about three feet in range ; an enclosed sea like
the Caspian or the Black is subject to no appreciable tides whatever,
and even the Mediterranean, notwithstanding its connection with the
great Atlantic, is subject in general to inconsiderable tides, the range
of water-level varying from eight inches at Brindisi to two feet
four inches at Trieste. The Mediterranean tides are, however, more
strongly developed in the Bay of Gibraltar (where the range is from
five feet to six feet five inches), the upper Adriatic and the Gulf of
Gabes.
In the deep wide reaches of the ocean, the tidal elevation progresses
at the tremendous rate of about five hundred geographical miles an hour.
But as this is merely the passing of an oscillation whereby the particles
of water are gently moved through a cycle of positions, there can be
no appreciable effect upon the distant ocean bottom, on an average of
two or three thousand fathoms below. When, however, the tidal wave
enters a shallow sea, the friction of the bottom becomes more and
more effective in decreasing the speed while it increases the height and
effective force of the wave. Again, when the tidal swelling is in-
creased in height by the convergence of the shores between which it
moves, it is no longer a mere oscillation or pulsation of the great ocean,
but the water acquires a true motion of translation, and rushes past
headlands and through narrow channels with tremendous force and
speed — a phenomenon well known along the west coasts of Scotland
and Scandinavia. In some cases the advancing tide on entering a
narrow inlet or estuary gathers itself into one or more large waves, and
rushes up between the converging shores. Thus, owing to the gradual
