n6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
THE RELATION OF COLOR AND CHEMICAL
CONSTITUTION
BY WILLIAM J. HALE, PH.D.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AMONG the many branches of scientific learning whose early
development we owe to the analytical mind of Sir Isaac Newton,
none can show a more beautiful discovery than that different colored
rays of light suffer unequal amounts of refraction or bending when
passed through a prism; and that sunlight itself by similar means is
resolved into a series of colors, the order of which, beginning at the
red and ending with the violet, corresponds with a gradual increase
in refraction. It was this that gave us our first spectrum and proved
at once the composite nature of white light.
After these discoveries by Newton, a hundred years and more
elapsed before Wollaston in 1802 observed the spectrum of a ray of
sunlight admitted through a narrow slit in a window-blind. In this
simple experiment, which gave a better distribution of the spectrum
colors than could be obtained with the pencil-like rays of Newton's
time, certain black lines were seen to cross the spectrum parallel to
the slit. The investigation of these lines, however, was left to Fraun-
hofer, who, several years later, with much improved apparatus for col-
lecting the light rays and projecting the same upon a screen, succeeded
in definitely establishing the existence of a large number of black lines
in the solar spectrum. In other words, the light from the sun was
shown to be incomplete by reason of the absorption of certain of its
rays, as was indicated by over 700 of these dark lines. To the principal
lines, still called by Fraunhofer's name, he assigned letters beginning
in the red with A and ending in the violet with H.
That there also existed an invisible portion of the spectrum lying
to either side of the visible spectrum, was early pointed out. Sir
William Hershel in 1800 observed the great heating effect of that por-
tion beyond the red, while Sir John Herschel in 1840 demonstrated
the existence of Fraunhofer lines in this infra-red region. Ritter and
Wollaston showed that silver chloride blackened readily in the invisible
portion of the spectrum beyond the violet, a fact readily inferred from
Scheele's observation in 1777 that silver chloride turned dark more
readily in violet than in red light. E. Becquerel, however, in 1842
succeeded in identifying many of the Fraunhofer lines in this ultra-
violet region and lettered the principal lines from L to P in continua-
tion of those already lettered by Fraunhofer.
