COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 117
Fraunhofer had noticed that the yellow spectrum line from com-
mon salt, when fed into a spirit lamp, was identical in position with
the D-line of the solar spectrum. But though the formation of these
discontinuous spectra from various salts in a flame was generally
known, it was not until 1859 that the presence of the Fraunhofer lines
in the solar spectrum was clearly explained by Kirchhoff, who deduced
the following law : " The relation between the powers of emission and
the powers of absorption for rays of the same wave-length is constant
for all bodies at the same temperature." Thus the particles of a sub-
stance under the excitement of some outside force are thrown into a
state of vibration which is dependent upon the chemical nature of the
substance itself. This vibratory motion gives rise to waves in the ether
and we have the phenomenon of emission. Again the particles of a
substance are most responsive to these same characteristic vibrations
and will absorb them whenever present, just as, by analogy, the strings
of a piano pick up sound waves of the exact period in which they
vibrate when these waves are set in motion by other musical instru-
ments in the neighborhood. Kirchhoff explained the solar spectrum
as one produced by a strong white light from an interior sphere passing
through a concentric layer of vapors of many substances, each of which
absorbs those particular rays that correspond to their own periods of
vibration. The light, thus deprived of many definite rays, indicated
their absence when its spectrum was cast upon a screen by the appear-
ance of dark lines — the images of the slit through which the light
passed — corresponding always to the wave-lengths absorbed. It must
not be assumed that these lines of absorption are regions of total dark-
ness. The particles set in vibration by the rays absorbed will naturally
give out some light of this same vibration period, but the light emitted
is so small in comparison with the rays from the original source which
pass through unmolested that the image cast upon the screen will give
the appearance of almost total darkness.
Now when a substance is yellow in color we can readily ascertain
that the spectrum of the light it reflects is lacking in a number of
rays of various wave-lengths. These rays correspond to the comple-
ment of the color reflected, and in the case of a yellow substance
belong to that magnitude found in the blue end of the spectrum. If
no wave-lengths of the visible spectrum had been absorbed, we should
have had the continuous spectrum of white light in the light reflected,
i. e., the body itself would not be colored. Colored substances, there-
fore, absorb the rays of their complementary colors and, consequently,
when white light is transmitted through them their spectra will indi-
cate the regions of this absorption by dark bands of varying intensity.
The absorption spectrum coincides always with the spectrum obtained
from the reflected light.
