n8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Though Fraunhofer had failed to grasp the true significance of the
dark lines in the spectrum he was able to solve another highly impor-
tant question — that of determining the wave-lengths to which these
lines corresponded. From the wave-theory of light it may be readily
understood that certain ether particles in the courses of different rays
of light (e. g., those of equal amplitude) may receive a strengthening
or retardation in their transverse vibrations according as they fall in
with the same phase of vibration or out of it. Upon this principle of
interference of light as developed by Young, Fraunhofer based his
method for studying and measuring the lines of the spectrum. He
made what he called a grating by ruling close together a number of
parallel lines upon a glass plate. When light is thrown upon this
series of equal and equidistant apertures a certain amount of the light
will be diffracted to either side of the direct course. Among these
diffracted rays as collected by a convex lens may be found several series
of bright and dark bands which correspond to the points of augmenta-
tion and retardation, respectively, of the ether particles under the in-
fluence of light from certain apertures. By simple calculation the
first bright band is known to be formed when the light rays from two
adjacent apertures differ by exactly one wave-length in their respective
courses to this band. A ready means, therefore, is given for measuring
the wave-lengths of light rays. When white light is used a number
of these bright bands will occur, with the light of shortest wave-length
— the violet — nearest the central image and that of the longest wave-
length — the red — farthest removed. In other words, we have a
spectrum, but one so constructed that a direct means is given for deter-
mining the wave-lengths of the various lines it may present. The
complete map of the wave-lengths of the lines in the visible solar
spectrum was published in 1868 by Angstrom. The wave-lengths were
expressed in ten millionths of a millimeter. Since that time they have
served as a standard in all similar investigations under the name of the
o
Angstrom Unit (A.U.). One millimicron (the millionth of a milli-
meter up,) is equal to 10 A.U. The visible spectrum extends from
light of about 7,600 A.U. in the red to that of about 3,900 A.U. in
the violet. A more satisfactory method of expressing the results of
observations in the spectrum is to use the number of waves of any
particular ray of light which occur in one centimeter in vacuo, or what
is called the oscillation frequency (O.F.). This is the reciprocal of the
wave-lengths when reduced to vacuum values. As the reduction makes
but little difference in the final value, it is usually customary to make
the correction by adding one or two A.U. to the observed wave-lengths.
Curves constructed from oscillation frequencies approach more nearly
a straight line, and thus are easier to draw.
A few of the best known lines may be given in order to show the
relation in values:
