COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 119
Symbol.
Color.
Wave-length. (A)
1/A O. F.
Frequency per Sec,
D
Yellow
0.0005893 mm.
1,696
510 trillion.
F
Blue
0.0004862 mm.
2,000
618
H
Violet
0.0003970 mm.
2,520
760
Our best modern instruments for work in the infra-red region
depend entirely on the heating effect. So sensitive indeed is the bolom-
eter, as devised by Langley, that a difference in temperature of one
five-hundred-thousandth of one degree F. can be determined and, by its
use in this region of the spectrum, rays of wave-length 100,000 A.U.
have been detected. The study of the ultra-violet region of the spec-
trum depends upon the sensitiveness of silver compounds and accord-
ingly on photographical measurements. As glass was found to absorb
the rays of shorter wave-lengths than 3,300 A.U., quartz lenses and
prisms must be used. Quartz absorbs rays of a wave-length less than
1,850 A.U., but fluorite may be used for rays down to a wave-length
of 1,000 A.U. Air itself exerts a powerful absorption for rays of
a wave-length of 2,000 A.U. and under, hence for these finer observa-
tions the apparatus must be exhausted and observations made in a
vacuum. In the photographical determinations of this region the
greatest care must be taken in preparing the silver bromide plates.
No gelatine can be used upon the plates as it is found to exert a strong
absorption for the shortest rays. The sensitive plates are usually
made by precipitating silver bromide in a solution over a glass plate
and allowing the precipitate to settle slowly upon this plate. When
these sensitive films are colored, the plate becomes more sensitive to
the rays which the dye absorbs.
The principle established by Kirchhoff was applied with intense
vigor to the study of all the lines of the solar spectrum. The intro-
duction of various substances into a flame was found to give spectra
of many colored lines, but these were always definite for each and
every substance examined. The lines in these discontinuous spectra
were seen in many cases to have their exact counterpart in certain of
the Fraunhofer lines and consequently the existence of the particular
element producing them may be assumed in the solar atmosphere. In
this manner, the chemical composition of the sun's atmosphere has
been determined, and even new elementary substances discovered there-
in by the selection of certain lines or groups of lines, unaccounted for
by any element previously studied. The line-spectra of many elements
are readily obtainable at low temperatures, but for iron and similar
metals a far higher temperature is required, as, for example, that of
the arc. For gases a strongly induced electric current (one of high
tension) is necessary. In the arc spectrum of iron over 2,000 lines
are observed, whereas the spectrum obtained at the flame temperature
consists of only a few bands and lines. At the hottest portion of the
spark the iron spectrum shows the same lines as in its arc spectrum,
