i2o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
but in addition a number of " enhanced lines," as Lockyer has chosen
to call them. By reason of these latter, Lockyer assumes that the
atom of iron (as well as of other elements) may consist of more ele-
mentary constituents at extremely high temperatures, and, if the cooler
vapors could be removed from this hottest zone, the enhanced lines
might stand alone for the elementary form of iron — as a proto-iron.
Such conditions are said to be obtained in sun spots and our hottest
stars. Whether the extremely high temperature alone is sufficient to
produce the enhanced lines, or whether their origin lies in the enor-
mously rapid changes of electric stress, can not be answered at present.
In either case, there seems to be no doubt but that the atom of an
element consists of yet smaller particles, which, with rise of the dis-
integrating forces, show a marked increase in their activities, and,
owing to the similarity existing between these particles, give spectral
lines of greater and greater simplicity.
When a group of lines in a spectrum has oscillation frequencies
that obey a single formula we call this group a series. The simplest
elements usually give three series, each of which consists of lines in
doublets or triplets. The action of a strong magnetic field upon the
series of an element's spectrum tends to decompose the series; each
line is resolved into two or three lines (doublets or triplets) according
as the light is viewed along or across the magnetic lines of force.
This is called the Zeeman effect. Of the three components of motion
of the particles, that one which lies in the direction of the lines of
force with vibrations backwards and forwards can emit no light except
when viewed at right angles to these lines of force. The other two
motions at right angles to the lines of force suffer a retardation and
acceleration, respectively, with the result that their oscillation fre-
quencies are similarly affected and consequently two separate lines will
be developed. These may be observed by themselves when the light is
viewed along the lines of force or in conjunction with the original
line — with position between these two — when the light is viewed across
the magnetic field. The electro-magnetic composition of the atom
therefore seems to be corroborated by these results.
As an analogy to this gradual disintegration of the atom under the
great stress brought to bear upon it, and. further to show how the more
complex molecules behave under the influence of temperature, we have
only to examine the spectrum of a compound. Whatever compound is
admitted into a flame, the characteristic spectrum of the molecule first
makes its appearance. This consists not of lines, but of bands of
varying widths. On further increase of temperature the decomposi-
tion of the compound molecule is attained, and the bands gradually
give way to the characteristic lines of the elements concerned. With
numerous compounds, for example, the metallic chlorides, this tempera-
ture is exceedingly low. Since the presence of spectral lines is un-
