COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 121
doubtedly to be accounted for by the vibrations within the atoms,
we may well have recourse to the modern conception of the atom
as advanced by J. J. Thomson. Here the atom is considered as
made up of a central mass carrying a positive charge. Surrounding it
are numerous electrons of a negative charge, the number of which
increases directly with the atomic weights of the elements concerned.
The electrons are undoubtedly arranged in some systematic order and
may, as Nagaoki imagines, follow parallel courses closely analogous
to the rings of Saturn. A disturbance of any one group or belt of
electrons will undoubtedly produce a disturbance in yet other groups
and, according to the amount of disturbance, the definite vibratory mo-
tions established will set up vibratory motions in the ether, later to be
detected in the spectrum. From this hypothesis the spectrum of an
element of high atomic weight might be expected to contain more lines
than one of low atomic weight. Such, however, need not necessarily
follow. If we take the case of radium, uranium, etc., we may imagine
the electrons in its atom to be grouped closely together in only a few
courses or belts. In fact this very hypothesis may well account for the
discharge of electrons from such highly condensed arrangements and
give rise to radioactivity.
From this modern standpoint the molecule is regarded as a com-
bination between atoms as effected by the loss or gain of one or more
electrons from one to the other, developing what is commonly termed
" bonds of affinity " and corresponding in number to the valence of the
particular atoms concerned. These may be more correctly construed
as Faraday tubes of force. 1
With these ideas in mind the banded spectra of compounds may be
accounted for by disturbances induced between the atoms, as well as
by small electronic vibrations set up in the atoms themselves and due
to the perturbances of the Faraday tubes of force. The vibrations
resulting from this composite arrangement of vibratory centers may
be sufficient to extend over a considerable area of wave-lengths and thus
produce a band. As the temperature increases these band spectra,
always obtained with compounds, pass over gradually into the line
spectra of the constituent elements concerned. There follows, then,
with increase of temperature or electric stress, as has already been noted,
1 The lines of force binding two atoms and constituting an electrical field
between these charged atoms is conveniently regarded as made up of tubes of
force, each with its positive electrical charge at one end, the beginning of this
tube, and its negative and equal electrical charge at the other end or termina-
tion of the tube. Each Faraday tube, therefore, encloses a charge of electricity
of unit value or that denoted by one single electron and consequently an atom
that is univalent must enter into combination by means of one Faraday tube of
force, one that is bivalent by two such tubes, etc. The positive atoms are those
formed by the loss of electrons and the negative atoms are those which can take
up these same electrons.
