COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 125
spond in constitution to the two distinct forms, ketonic and enolic, of
the free ethyl aceto-acetate. They may be graphically represented as
follows :
Ethyl ethyl-aceto-acetate Ethyl /3-ethoxy-crotonate
(ketonic) (enolic)
H
3 — C— C— (
O C 2 H 5
CH 3 — C— C— C0 2 C 2 H B CH 3 — C=CH— O0>C 2 H 5
C 2 H B OC 2 H B
Upon examination of their absorption spectra, it was observed that the
enolic compound exerts only a general absorption without a band,
while the ketonic compound was practically free from absorption. This
is exactly what might be anticipated from the results of Hartley, who
had already shown that no difference exists between the absorption
spectrum of the compound and that of its alkyl (here ethyl) de-
rivative. Even a mixture of these two alkyl derivatives fails to
show the presence of absorption bands in the spectrum. We may
conclude, therefore, that an absorption band is not to be attributed
,.to either the one or the other form of a tautomeric substance, but
rather to the changing of one form into the other — a dynamical
isomerism. If this intramolecular transformation is the source of the
disturbance which produces the absorption bands, then an acceleration
of this transformation should show itself in the increased persistence
of the band, while retardation of the same should diminish this per-
sistence. For some time it has been known that alkalies exert a
marked positive influence upon the velocity of tautomeric changes and,
as may be naturally inferred, acids retard this change. On the addi-
tion of a small amount of sodium hydroxide to a solution of ethyl
aceto-acetate, the form of the absorption-curve changes at once and a
band appears. On the further addition of alkali, the depth of this
curve, that is the persistence, increases until it reaches a maximum
corresponding to the presence of a large excess of alkali. The absorp-
tion-curve of the aluminium derivative of this ester has not the per-
sistence of that of the sodium salt when the sodium hydroxide is
present in excess of one molecular equivalent. "With the addition of
hydrochloric acid a retarded action is developed and even the absorp-
tion curve for the free ester is seen to diminish slightly in its persist-
ence when an excess of acid is present, indicating, therefore, that the
free ester is not entirely ketonic, but is in equilibrium with a very
small quantity of its enolic modification. Spectroscopic evidence
points out that the persistence of the absorption bands over concentra-
tion changes is directly proportional to the number of molecules in the
state of oscillation or, in other words, is a measure of the dynamical
isomerism between substances in equilibrium with each other.
From these considerations it is evident that this dynamical isomer-
