126 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ism must be closely connected with some peculiar vibration or free
period synchronous with the oscillation frequency of the light rays
absorbed. The oscillation frequency, however, is about the same for
all the substances just examined and lies between the limits 3,600 and
3,800, no matter what the labile atom may be. We are, therefore,
forced to the conclusion that the absorption bands can not be due
directly to this oscillating labile atom, or, in other words, the vibration
frequency of this atom is not identical with the oscillation frequency
of the light absorbed. This inference is strongly substantiated by
physical evidence which represents atomic motion as far less than that
of this magnitude of light rays. There remains then but one final
solution of this question, or the conclusion that the absorption band
is due directly to the change of the linking which accompanies the
wandering of the labile atom. In the case of the keto-enol tautomerism
just discussed, we may represent the change graphically as follows:
— CH=C— CH 2 — C—
Ah ** D
At some stage in its transformation the hydrogen atom must have
wandered to the half-way point of its journey and have been linked
definitely to neither the carbon nor the oxygen atoms. We should then
have the phase in which the carbon and oxygen atoms change linking.
— CH— C—
(H)
By the examination of countless numbers of organic compounds
it is found that absorption bands in the ultra-violet region of the
spectrum are shown only by compounds exhibiting some form of
tautomerism, whether this be due to the keto-enolic type or to a periodic
type, like that present in ring compounds. The oscillation frequency
of the light absorbed in all cases of keto-enol tautomerism is about the
same, but with an increase in the mass of the molecule as brought about
by the displacement of one atom by a second atom or group of atoms
of greater relative weight, a decrease in the oscillation frequency is
observed. This displacement, however, is only small and does not
interfere with the general assumption that there is present some condi-
tion common to the whole group upon which the absorption directly
depends.
From the standpoint of modern theories regarding the structure
of the molecule, there must arise in this tautomeric change a constant
making and breaking of the Faraday tubes of force. This means a
constant disturbance of the electron systems and, consequently, similar
vibrational disturbances in the ether. From Hewitt's studies in
fluorescence these electronic disturbances, due to dynamic isomerism,
