COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 127
appear to be of the same order as light waves and, consequently, by
absorption of their wave-lengths white light should show the absorption
spectra we have noted. The sodium and aluminium derivatives of
ethyl aceto-acetate may be described as equilibrium mixtures of the
enolic and ketonic forms. The fact that the sodium salt is so easily
hydrolyzed in an aqueous solution need not enter into the discussion
of the absorption spectra. The evidence in all these cases goes to show
that the metallic ion still exerts its influence and does not lead an alto-
gether separate existence from that of the negative ion. Accordingly
we may regard the Faraday tubes of force as stretched, but not neces-
sarily broken, by the action of the solvent. On this basis, an ionizing
solvent is to be considered as one that will bring about this lengthening
of the Faraday tubes. Among the best examples, we may cite water,
liquid sulphur dioxide, and liquid ammonia, or those substances which
possess in reality a certain amount of " residual affinity " — affinities that
may yet be exerted. Tautomeric changes in solution receive their
interpretation, then, in the lengthening of the Faraday tubes of force
to that point where the labile atom comes so far under the influence of
a neighboring atom that a break occurs, which in turn gives rise to the
oscillatory disturbances already discussed. With tautomeric compounds
in which the labile atom has been replaced by an alkyl group there is
absence of tautomerism due to the non-formation of alkyl ions, in which
case it is seen that water and alcohol have not sufficient power to
lengthen the Faraday tubes of force. The persistence of an absorption
band may be defined now as the measure of the atoms in this transi-
torial state or the measure of the extent to which the labile atoms are
separated from the molecule proper. Wherever the tautomeric com-
pounds display the phenomenon of fluorescence a second free period of
vibration is present. The latter must depend upon the former since
a compound does not fluoresce except when exposed to light rays of
the frequency of the first free period. Eecently it has been demon-
strated that a fluorescent substance gives two bands in its absorption
spectrum, one for each of these periods of vibration. The band from
the incident light is well marked, but the band from the fluorescent
light is so faint that it can be made fairly visible only when the light
of the first free period is strengthened; a fact that substantiates the
dependence of the second free period upon the first.
As the origin of absorption bands in the ultra-violet spectrum have
received an explanation in the change of linking brought about by the
shifting of a labile atom, so clearly represented in the examples of
keto-enol tautomerism, we may rightly expect to find absorption bands
in the spectra of other compounds in which some change of linking is
exhibited. No more beautiful example can be found than that of the
compound known as benzol, where six carbon atoms, unchangeable in
their order, are bound together in a single ring. To each carbon is
