i28 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
attached an atom of hydrogen, but as carbon is usually considered
quadrivalent, a fourth seemingly unused bond of affinity remains free
to each of these carbon atoms. This affinity may be considered as the
residual affinity. To this substance Kekule has assigned the structure
illustrated by the graphical formula :
H
The introduction of three double linkings between the alternate
pairs of carbon atoms satisfies the demands for quadrivalence in these
atoms. But Kekule clearly called attention to the fact that a sort of
equilibrium existed between all the carbon atoms, such that the pres-
ence of one of the three double linkings between any two adjacent car-
bon atoms, when both were involved in the formation of a derivative,
would not necessarily change the properties of the derivative from that
one formed when two adjacent carbon atoms were united by only a
single bond. Xow the Kekule formula, and in fact all the older
formula? assigned to this compound, represent only particular phases
in the motions of the molecule. The space-formula proposed by
Collie, 2 in which the atoms are represented as in a state of continual
vibration, serves well for the basis of our modern conception. Upon
examination of the absorption spectrum of benzol we note the presence
of seven distinct bands all quite similar and closely situated with
reference to each other, appearing between the oscillation frequencies
3,725 and 4,200. These bands are in that part of the ultra-violet spec-
trum where the absorption bands due to keto-enol tautomerism displayed
themselves. At once the idea of a similar make-and-break of linkings
between the carbon atoms suggested itself, and, in exact accordance
with this hypothesis, the seven distinct bands may find here their cause
of formation.
In keto-enol (aliphatic) tautomerism an even number of carbon
atoms is always involved in the make-and-break of linkings. Accord-
ingly with the benzol molecule we may assume that two, four or six
carbon atoms may enter into this phase at one time. If the carbon
atoms are numbered consecutively from 1 to 6, we should have in
order the following conditions which represent the change of linkings
between certain numbered carbon atoms: (1 and 2), (1 and 3), (1
and 4), (1 and 2, with 3 and 4), (1 and 2, with 3 and 5), (1 and 2,
with 4 and 6), (1 and 2, with 3 and 4, with 5 and 6). At the outset
we shall suppose the benzol ring to be elastic and capable of under-
2 Chem. Soc. Trans., 71, 1013, 1897.
