COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 129
going various pulsations, such as may be illustrated by the accom-
panying figures :
/ V \
(a)
HC " iCH HC-C-CH H C /| >ci
(b) ! i (c)
vY
X c^ H T
H a
The clotted lines show the linkings developed from the free affinities
when the ring is pulsating between the two forms (a) and (6). The
centric formula for benzol (Baeyer's), as shown in (c), may be, there-
fore, an intermediate form for all the possible forms. The free or
residual affinity possessed by each carbon atom asserts itself under the
various conditions which can be brought into existence by these pulsa-
tions, with the effect that the several linkings produced must involve
always a pair of carbon atoms and then in turn during the second stage
of the pulsation must suffer a break and consequently give rise to
some particular one of the seven possible phases, with its characteristic
absorption band of course depending upon the carbon atoms in ques-
tion. Altogether, when the entire ring is free to pulsate in every
direction, there will arise seven absorption bands which represent the
seven possible combinations of linking-change.
The derivatives of benzol may be expected to show some variation
in type and manner of pulsation from that of the parent ring, but
whatever changes occur the effect upon the characteristic absorption
spectrum of the original molecule will always indicate the exact nature
of each change. In this connection it will be well to consider a few of
the more important derivatives, which, as is generally known, are
primarily formed by the replacement of one or more of the hydrogen
atoms by an equivalent atom or group of atoms — a process called sub-
stitution. The alkyl radicals (methyl, ethyl, etc.) stand as a type of
the neutral groups and consequently, when they are present, little
change in the spectrum of the original substance should be observed.
The spectrum of toluol, C 6 H 5 ■ CH 3 , ethyl benzol, C 6 H 5 ■ C 2 H 5 , etc., are
almost identical, but only the first two absorption bands of the original
benzol spectrum are well marked, the remaining bands having fused
more or less into one broad band. With aniline, CgHglSrHj, where
the basic unsaturated amido-group (NH 2 ) has replaced the hydrogen
atom, we get only a broad absorption band caused, no doubt, by the
residual affinity of the nitrogen atom which binds or holds all the
free affinities of the benzol ring. Upon the addition of an excess of
hydrochloric acid to aniline, we obtain the saturated compound known
as aniline hydrochlorate, C 6 H 5 • NH 3 C1, the nitrogen having passed
from the trivalent to the quinquivalent state. This compound, as
vol. lxxii. — 9.
