130 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
might be anticipated, gives an absorption spectrum resembling very
closely that of the mono-alkyl derivatives of benzol just mentioned.
The absorption band of phenol, C H 5 OH, differs from that of the
mono-alkyl derivatives in that one pronounced band has replaced the
two prominent bands in the spectra of the latter. In the case of
anisol, C 6 H 5 'OCH 3 , the methyl derivative of phenol, known as an
ether, the two prominent bands are again in appearance. In other
words, the substituting group methoxyl (OCH 3 ) partakes more of the
nature of a saturated alkyl group, whereas the hydroxyl group (OH)
acts very differently. By a close examination of the two bands from
anisol and the one from phenol we see that the transmitted portion,
or that portion which serves to divide the one band into two, lies be-
tween the oscillation frequencies, 3,640-3,655. This is exactly the
region where the absorption bands due to keto-enol tautomerism make
their head. In other words, the presence of just such dynamical
isomerism as may be caused by the wandering of the labile hydrogen
atom of phenol will account for this absorption band and its position
in overlying the regular bands due to phenolic structure, as shown in
the case of anisol, etc. That a condition of dynamical isomerism is
really present in a free phenol is further proved by the shifting of the
absorption band to the left upon the addition of sodium hydroxide
to its solutions; a result always observed in keto-enol tautomerism.
Upon the bands formed by anisol the addition of alkali has no effect.
On the other hand, the addition of hydrochloric acid to a phenol re-
tards this tautomerism and when large excess of the acid is used the
transmitted portion of the spectrum or that which is due to the free
benzol nucleus begins again to make its appearance. The spectrum
observed in the case of nitrobenzol, C 6 H 5 • N0 2 , and other derivatives,
where the substituent possesses marked residual affinity (due here to
the oxygen atoms) shows only a general absorption. This condition,
therefore, is brought about when the active residual affinity of the new
groups restrains or locks up the free affinities of the benzol ring and
thus retards its internal motions.
As with the mono-derivatives of benzol, so also with the disubsti-
tuted derivatives, the general rule holds true; wherever the substituents
are groups well saturated, they will exert scarcely any retarding action
upon the pulsations of the original molecule. The disubstituted de-
rivatives are classified as ortho, meta and para, according as the groups
are adjacent, once removed, or twice removed (diametrically across the
ring) respectively, from each other. The para compounds give a
spectrum more closely resembling that of the parent substance, benzol,
and hence may be said to be the more symmetrical arrangement, or
that which accords best with the even or symmetrical pulsations of the
benzol molecule. With the ortho- and meta-compounds we may say
that the unsymmetrical loading of the ring operates against the even
