COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 131
pulsations and tends to produce irregular vibrations which give rise
to less distinctive absorption bands.
In aliphatic, as well as in aromatic, compounds, we often observe
that a certain amount of residual affinity lurking in the oxygen atoms
can exert a strong influence upon an entire group of atoms. One of
the simplest and most reactive combinations in which oxygen may be
found is that known as the carbonyl group (CO), which, when
occurring between two carbon radicals, constitutes a ketone as we have
already noted. The simplest ketone is acetone, CH 3 — CO — CH 3 .
The additive capacity of this carbonyl group for various reagents is
well known, but this capacity very often decreases in power with an
increase of the molecular aggregation in the near vicinity. For ex-
ample, the additive capacity of the carbonyl group in the compound
methyl-ethyl ketone, CH 3 — CO — C 2 H 5 , is usually less than that in
acetone. These and similar facts have been explained upon the
hypothesis of " steric hindrance " for lack of a better phrase. Though
at times this hypothesis may best explain some of the intricate prob-
lems, still it hardly dare be supposed that the paths of intra-molecular
vibration of the atoms is other than large in comparison with the size
of the atoms themselves; consequently, slight increase in the mass of
the substituents should have no appreciable effect upon the activity of
a neighboring group. Oftentimes it was found that very large sub-
stituents increased the additive capacity of a carbonyl group. Thus
when one of the hydrogen atoms of acetone is replaced by a carbethoxyl
group (COOC 2 H 5 ), a group formed by the replacement with ethyl
of the hydrogen atom in the regular organic acid group, carboxyl
(COOH), we get a great increase in the activity of the original
carbon group. The compound so formed would have the formula,
CH 3 — CO — CH 2 — COOC,H 5 , i. e., ethyl aceto-acetate — the very
same compound as. was studied with reference to keto-enol tautomerism.
An explanation of the increased activity in this case from the stand-
point of dynamical isomerism which may be present seems to be most
adequate. The oxygen atom exists temporarily in the enolic (OH)
stage and the hydrogen atom, at the moment of departing, must leave
the oxygen atom and consequently the carbonyl group nascent, i. e., in
an exceedingly active form, similar here, no doubt, to the state acquired
by ionization in solution. Again the hydrogen atom itself at the
moment of separation would be most susceptible also to chemical action.
In order to get an idea of the relation of this carbonyl group to
the carboxyl group, one of the simplest compounds which exhibits this
arrangement was studied. The example taken was the ethyl ester of
pyruvic acid, CH 3 — CO — COOC 2 H 5 . Here there was observed an
absorption band lying much nearer the red end of the spectrum than
that obtained in the case of ethyl aceto-acetate. The band had a head
at about the oscillation frequency 3,100, whereas the band of the latter
