COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 135
the para-position. Now the activity of these oxygen atoms is to be
attributed to the residual affinity which each is known to possess, and
hence by the assertion of this affinity when in close proximity to each
other, followed quickly by a break in the same, we arrive at the condi-
tion known as isorropesis, upon which form of oscillation the color
depends. It is necessary in this process that the active groups under-
going isorropesis should be adjacent. The pulsations of the benzol
ring readily furnish the means by which the two para-atoms are suc-
cessively brought under the influence of each other, and hence their
positions will approach more nearly to that of adjacent atoms, a point
that was confirmed by the similarity in the absorption spectra between
para-benzo-quinone and compounds where the two carbonyl groups
were actually adjacent. The study of ortho-quinones falls in the same
category as the para-quinones and may be explained in a similar
manner. Meta-quinones, however, can exist, but momentarily on the
hypothesis of the benzol pulsations and hence are unstable.
Isorropesis, as has just been indicated, occurs between adjacent
atoms possessing residual affinity. It is also to be remembered that
some disturbing force must be brought to bear upon these atoms, for
otherwise no make-and-break and consequently no oscillation can take
place. In the simplest case studied, that of diacetyl (CH 3 — CO —
CO — CH 3 ), the disturbing influence rests undoubtedly with the
hydrogen atoms of the methyl groups which from their electro-positive
nature exert a strong attraction for the electro-negative atoms of
oxygen. This constitutes a sort of keto-enol tautomerism, the presence
of which should certainly be accounted for in the appearance of the
absorption-curve; indeed, the slight extension of the absorption-curve
of this compound near the oscillation frequency 3,800 corresponds
exactly to the location of a band due to keto-enol tautomerism. The
cause of isorropesis in a compound rests, then, upon the disturbances
of the residual affinities of the two atoms in juxtaposition. In the
examples already cited, those of pyruvic acid and oxalic acid, the
hydroxyl group is next to the active carbonyl group. The slight posi-
tive nature of the hydrogen atom in this capacity will diminish its
disturbing effect upon the second oxygen atom, or that of the carbonyl
group, and consequently only the slightest amount of isorropesis will be
possible. With the alkyl ester of pyruvic acid the conditions will
favor a slight isorropesis, as we have seen, but with oxalic acid there
should be none at all. In quinones the residual affinities of the benzol
ring constitute the disturbing factors. The hydrogen atoms of the
benzol molecule may also exert some disturbance. In general, we may
say that the amount of isorropesis must rest upon the disturbing in-
fluences which can be brought to bear upon the active groups showing
residual affinity, or those susceptible of this new kind of oscillation.
Isorropesis need not always be confined to residual affinities between
