COLOR AND CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION 137
colorless free nitrophenols present only the regular form of vibration
known to the benzo'id structure and hence can give no oscillation of a
frequency low enough to produce color. In the salts of these phenols,
however, the quinoid type is developed and, though always in equilib-
rium with a certain amount of the benzo'id type, isorropesis will be
present to an extent dependent upon the degree of unsaturation of the
atoms, and indicated by the appearance of color. In the case of meta-
compounds a measure of the persistence of their absorption bands indi-
cates a smaller amount of isorropesis and consequently they will be less
colored than the ortho- and para-derivatives. In all of these investiga-
tions care must be used in the selection of a proper solvent. Since
water is known to possess a large amount of residual affinity its action
upon the ethers of nitro-phenols will be quite apparent. Alcohol serves
the purpose here because it is well known to exert little or no ionizing
action upon ethers and esters. In general, the new free period of
oscillation — isorropesis — may be represented by the equilibrium :
Ri— C — C— R, 1^—0 = 0—11,
I t ** i-k
These are conditions which accord entirely with certain known
chemical facts.
In compounds of the benzol structure the cause of color begins with
the particular vibrations of the molecule itself. These oscillations,
however, as has been seen, are synchronous with light waves of a very
high frequency and give rise to absorption bands in the ultra-violet
region only. When some other influences can be brought to bear upon
these movements, as, for example, the introduction of a potential keto-
enol tautomerism, isorropesis is established and the oscillations, which
are now of a less frequency, may be low enough to show the beginning
of color. When the retardation of these oscillation frequencies is con-
tinued, as, for example, by the introduction of heavier atomic com-
plexes for the simpler and lighter hydrogen atoms, the absorption
curves due to oscillation will gradually be made to travel toward the
red end of the spectrum and the color, naturally, will travel into the
blue. A very well-known example of this is the increase in depth of the
blue color possessed by certain dyes which accompanies an increase
in the number of methyl groups introduced into the molecule. The
introduction of a chromophore group, one of a more or less unsaturated
nature, may in this light be considered as among the best to push back
the oscillation frequency. But with reference to the powerful effect
these chromophore groups have upon the retardation of the pulsations
of the molecule and the consequent establishment of a new type of
linking always in equilibrium with that of the original nucleus, the
interpretation of their influence seems best explained in the production
of an entirely new, free period of vibration — isorropesis — within the
