i 3 8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
molecule itself. Now the term isorropesis is used to define the oscilla-
tion that takes place between the residual affinities of atoms in juxta-
position. The idea, however, may have already presented itself that
in the case of the benzol structure the presence of keto-enol tautomerism
with its particular period of vibration together with the oscillations
occurring in the benzol nucleus, might, by a mutual combination of
these two periods, give a period of greater wave-length and thus
coincide with light rays in the visible region of the spectrum. If this
were true, then these two conditions just stated might be looked upon
as potential color systems. The actual presence of the conditions for
isorropesis in the aliphatic series argues most strongly for the same
sort of oscillation in the aromatic series wherever circumstances are
favorable for its existence. In fact it seems highly probable that its
presence alone will account for all the color-formations in the aromatic
series. Other vibratory centers may exist and in fact do exist in the
various compounds, but their presence only influences the amount of
isorropesis that can take place and does not altogether destroy this
particular form of oscillation.
In the quinoid type of compounds the actual existence of the two
distinct modifications which underlie isorropesis has already been
shown. The change of one of these forms into the other and vice versa
necessitates a change in manner of linking throughout the molecule
which accompanies the oscillation in question. The fact that no one
arrangement of atoms, no matter what their method of linking, can
be made to show an absorption band is sufficient in itself to argue for
the make-and-break in the two forms of the quinone as the cause of
the color that exists among members of this class. For many years
the quinoid linking has been supposed to be the source of color in
compounds of quinone formation. It was not until recently, how-
ever, that Gomberg has been able to prove conclusively that the
quinoid type of linking actually exists in colored compounds of this
nature. Not alone the presence of the quinoid type, but also the
benzo'id type has been shown to be present. In fact he has been able
to interpret the conditions which determine the equilibrium always
existent between these two forms and thus has succeeded in establishing
by purely chemical means the amount of quinoid formation and con-
sequently of isorropesis possible among aromatic derivatives. The
spectroscopic evidence, therefore, on the existence of just such a type
of oscillation as may be present in equilibria of this nature is corrob-
orated. Upon the amount of isorropesis shown — a factor always
dependent upon the relative unsaturated condition of the atoms coming
into juxtaposition — we arrive at the depth of color in any given equi-
librium. The presence of other groups may augment or retard the
influence of these unsaturated atoms undergoing isorropesis, and con-
sequently the corresponding variations in the oscillation frequency
