INTRODUCTION
When Roentgen made his great discovery in
1895 he could hardly have suspected the full
scope of its application. Only now, 50 years
after the discovery of X rays, can its signifi-
cance be appreciated. In examining only the
biological effect of these rays, which are mainly
stimulating and [new] form producing, the power
and significance of this new tool that has been
placed at the disposal of experimental science
must be marveled.
A vast amount of experiments and observa-
tions has been performed over the past 50 years
demonstrating the effect of X rays on animal
and plant life. During this period the interest
shown in these rays by biologists has fluctuated.
Although the expectations of the first investi-
gators in the field of medicine have, in general,
been realized, a period of disillusion set in
before the successful use of these rays was con-
clusively established for the diagnosis and cure
of numerous diseases.
Similar variations in attitude can be noted in
the evaluation of the biological effects of X rays,
depending on the success or failure of the experi-
ments performed.
Interest in the effects of short waves appeared
shortly after their discovery, but the peak of
interest was reached in 1927 when Muller made
his announcement concerning the multifold in-
crease in the number of mutations obtained by
the use of these rays on fruit flies. Our biolo-
gists responded quickly to Muller' s discovery.
It seemed that a method had been found which
made it possible to induce an outburst of muta-
tions in any kind of plant or animal life. Among
these many mutations it would be easy to select
those which would be useful to agriculture and
industry. By selecting certain changes and by
fixing them by heredity, it was possible to ex-
pect to obtain new forms and even new species.
In short, X rays appeared to open wide horizons
for experimental production of new forms of life.
After a short while, however, assertions were
made on all sides to the effect that X rays had
not only failed to produce, but that they could
not produce the changes which the first investi-
gators expected. A few more years passed and
X rays assumed what we believed to be their
proper place in the field of biology. X rays are
not omnipotent; they have not produced new
families, or even new genera. But from the
changes produced by radiation it is possible to
obtain not only radical deviations but forms
which are very desirable to the experimenters.
This will be demonstrated later by many ex-
amples. Certain publications in this area are
destined to become classics while others which
held great promise will be forgotten because
they were superficial or insufficiently checked.
The same may be said in relation to phenom-
ena of stimulation due to exposure to X rays.
At first a great interest was taken in this type
of experiment. The majority of authors noted
that X rays had a positive effect on the rate
with which plants germinated and developed.
Then a series of works appeared denying that
X rays had any positive action. As a result a
sceptical attitude developed in relation to the
possibility of stimulating plant growth by the
irradiation of seeds or seedlings. Only in the
last few years have publications begun to appear
in the USSR as well as in the United States which
indicate that with appropriate dosages of these
rays it is possible to stimulate the growth and
development of agricultural crops and to in-
crease their yield.
It is felt that this monograph should be
prefaced by a short explanation of the physics
of these rays. But first it is imperative to
comment upon the nomenclature of the rays.
Roentgen called them X rays since he did not
clearly understand their properties. In due
time their name became so closely associated
with his that they quite properly received the
name of Roentgen rays. This is particularly
fortunate since it is most convenient for the
coining of such new terms as roentgenbiology,
roentgenmutation, ect. However, on certain
occasions we will resort to the term X ray for
brevity. 1
The Physics of X Rays . In recent years
investigators have shown that atoms, which
were considered indivisible, are actually com-
plex structures consisting of a central nucleus
and an outer shell composed of the smallest
existing particles of matter, carrying negative
charges. These particles are called electrons.
In order to obtain X rays it is necessary to have
H In this English translation, however, the term
X ray will be used exclusively.]
