electrons from the outer shell of the atoms and
electrons separated from atoms or "free elec -
trons. " The process of formation of X rays
takes place in a vacuum tube filled with rarefied
gas where by application of high voltage across
the tube, free electrons are split off from indi-
vidual atoms and directed at a very high speed
toward the anode, thus forming a beam of "cath-
ode rays. " The electrons are propelled in the
tube at a speed approaching that of light. In
order to impart such speed to electrons it is
necessary to expend a large amount of energy,
which is derived from a special source of cur-
rent. If a metal plate is placed in the path of the
electrons, they will strike it with tremendous
force; their speed diminishes abruptly, and at
that instant X rays are formed. This plate has
to be made from a metal with a very high melt -
ingpoint since electronic bombardment generates
a large amount of heat. The plate is called the
anode of the tube and the tube itself an X-ray
tube. The most prevalent type of electronic tube
is the so-called Coolidge tube which was made
first in the United States in 1913. The X-ray
tube is essentially a container from which the
air has been pumped. Inside the container are
two electrodes; one is connected to the anode,
the other to the cathode, which constitutes the
source of electrons (Fig. 1.) X rays are short
wave electromagnetic radiations ranging in
wave length from 0.02 to 100 angstroms, a
unit of length equivalent to 1/10, 000 jli or
1/lOm/j.. The energy radiated by the tube is
not all of the same kind, it consists of both
short and long wave radiation. The qualitative
composition of the radiation depends on the
voltage: the greater the voltage, the greater
the quantity of short wave rays produced.
X rays are invisible and can be detected only
by their action. Three basic means are used to
detect rays: 1) fluorescence, 2) photography, and
3) ionization. The first method is based upon
the ability of X rays to cause visible lumines-
cence in certain substances. If a screen is made
from such substances, it will light up every time
that X rays impinge upon it (fluoroscopic exami-
nation is based upon this principle). The photo-
graphic action of X rays is similar to fluores-
cence but more pronounced. It is possible, for
example, to obtain photographic prints by means
of X rays. These prints can be retained as doc-
umentary evidence for an indefinite period.
Kostov (1943) has had great success in photo-
graphing ears of wheat by means of X rays, a me-
thod that enables him to obtain not only the ex-
ternal morphological appearance of the ears, but
even the extent of development of the kernels inside
;#&*»
FIGURE 1. X-ray apparatus in action.
