the ear due to the penetrating action of X rays.
Such photographs are known as radiographs.
The ionization method is based on the ability
of Xrays to cause air and other gases to become
conductors by imparting positive or negative
charges to ions of uncharged gas molecules.
The amount of current passing through the ion-
ized gas with a given difference in potential is
proportional to the intensity of the X rays causing
the ionization. Special ionizing chambers which
are used to measure the degree of ionization of
the gas can serve as dosimeters for quantitative
measurement of X rays.
In their optical properties X rays show all of
the characteristics of light rays. They can be
refracted and reflected. They exhibit the phe-
nomena of polarization and diffraction. The
ability of X rays to penetrate deep into tissues
and to induce various changes there is of partic-
ular significance in biology. It should be noted
that only rays which are absorbed exert any
effect. Rays which penetrate feebly or those
which are completely reflected have no action.
The ability to penetrate increases as the wave
length shortens.
During the first year of discovery of X rays
people working with them experienced serious
inflammations of the skin accompanied by loss
of hair. It soon became apparent that the action
of the rays is not limited to their effect on the
skin, but that all the internal organs of men and
animals are affected if the amounts of exposure
are sufficiently great. Radiation therapy is
based upon this phenomenon.
In 1903 Heinecke* amazed everyone by his
discovery that mice and guinea pigs can be
killed by X rays. Autopsy of animals killed in
this manner showed that their spleens were
small and dark; histological examination re-
vealed an extraordinary increase in the amount
of pigment and the disappearance of follicles
and cellular elements of the spleen. Similar
changes took place in the lymph nodes, bone
marrow, etc. In cases of sub -lethal dosage a
regeneration of lymphatic tissue commences
after several days. However, a discussion of
this aspect of X ray action is outside the scope
of this book; those interested in this phenomenon
are referred to the book written by Nemenov in
1926 [1933?]. 2
The Measurement of Energy. Before pro-
ceeding further some concept of the units of
measurement of X rays should be established.
This is particularly imperative because the use
of various units of measurement by the numer-
ous workers in this field increases the difficulty
of comparing the results obtained in the radia-
tion of various plants and animals.
The most widespread unit of measurement,
up to recent years, was a dosage bearing the
abbreviation HED [Skin Erythema Dose], This
dose is equivalent to that amount of radiation
which results in a reddening and peeling of the
skin in man ten days after exposure to radia-
tion. But this measure, like most biological
units, is too inaccurate since the indicated skin
symptoms vary with the age, physical condition,
and skin pigmentation of a given patient. Clark 3
who examined many patients in various clinics,
has shown that the erythemic dose varies from
400 r to 1200 r (roentgen units) depending on
individual differences, and that the average
dose equals about 840 r.
Many German and French investigators
used the Holtzknecht unit (H) (equal to about
1/5 of the erythemic dose) to measure X
rays.
This latter unit was abandoned in favor of a
new international unit r (roentgen unit) which
corresponds to the amount of energy required
to produce, as a result of complete ionization
in air, at zero degrees centigrade and normal
atmospheric pressure, charges of one electro-
static unit per cubic centimeter of the irra-
diated object. 4
Dosimeters used for quantitative determina-
tion of X rays give the measurement in roentgen
units. The majority of investigators, however,
are not content to indicate the amount of X rays
in roentgen units; they also indicate the source
of radiation, voltage, amperage, distance of
the object from the tube, duration of exposure,
and nature (or absence) of the filters.
Filters are very thin plates (of aluminum,
copper, etc. ) and serve to dissipate the X
rays of specific wave lengths. This makes it
possible to achieve some uniformity [ of wave
lengths] in the beam which irradiates the
obj ect .
^o 1926 reference given; see 1933 reference.
'Reference not given. Can be found in Discussion
to Packard, C. 1934. Biological dosimeters in radi-
ology. Cold Spring Harbor Symposia Quant. Biol . 2,
264-273.
^Editor's note: Not the currently accepted definition
in general usage.
