CHAPTER 1
PHYSIOLOGICAL CHANGES PRODUCED BY X RAYS
Virchow has stated that cellular reactions to
various irritants depend on the power of the
irritating agent. At first normal cellular activ-
ity is accelerated; exposures of longer duration
to stronger doses produce depression; prolonged
exposures result in death. This thesis has found
confirmation in the works of the most recent
investigators and was most precisely formulated
by Arndt*: "Weak irritants stimulate activity;
medium irritants depress it; strong ones halt
it. " This formulation has been extended by
Schultze to include all the vital processes of
animal and plant cells of diseased as well as
of healthy organisms. This generalization has
become accepted in literature as a basic bio-
logical law.
Since X rays have a stimulating effect on the
activity of organisms, it was necessary to deter-
mine to what extent they conform to the Arndt -
Schultze Law. Few investigators objected to
that part of the law which states that strong
doses of radiation tend to suppress normal ac-
tivity. Numerous experiments testify to the
inhibition of development of organisms or tissues
that have been subjected to strong or prolonged
doses of radiation. Concerning the other part
of the law, however, opinion is sharply divided.
While some point out the stimulating effect of
weak doses, others deny this effect altogether,
or they acknowledge it only as a temporary
spurt of activity followed by normal, or even
depressed, development. For example, in 1923
Holtzknecht wrote: "We have no basis for
assuming that because a substance is harmful
that, in some amount or other, it may be bene-
ficial. Consequently, since X rays fatigue and
kill cells, we cannot conclude that doses exist
which stimulate or accelerate cellular develop-
ment. Fifteen years of roentgenology have
established only the depressing effects of X rays
on cellular activity. "
It should be noted that the term "stimulation"
is ambiguous since stimulation includes negative
as well as positive responses to stimuli. Un-
doubtedly, certain differences of opinion stem
directly from the use of this word. In order to
avoid this type of misunderstanding the term
"stimulation" will be used in its more generally
accepted sense, i. e.
reaction.
to indicate a positive
A dose of X rays which stimulates the life
processes of plants is commonly referred to as
a "stimulating dose." From the numerous
investigations of various authors it is evident
that some of them have succeeded in establish-
ing stimulating dosages for the subjects of their
experiments, while others deny the existence of
such dosages.
One of the earliest investigators of the bio-
logical effects of X rays was Schober, who in
1896 set out to study the nature of X rays pri-
marily to determine whether or not they were
identical with light rays. Schober selected
germinating oats as the most light sensitive
object he could find. Having germinated oat
seeds in darkness, he selected the most vigor-
ous specimens (1 to 2 cm high) and planted them,
five to a cup, in four small cups. He then
placed the cups in a darkened box and subjected
them to the action of X rays for 1 hour, with the
source of the rays 1 centimeter away from the
box. Careful observation of these plants did
not reveal in them any evidence of [heliotropic]
bending. When the box with the cups was placed
on the window sill and a diffused light was per-
mitted to enter through a narrow slit, it was
possible after 1 hour to observe a bending of
the sprouts in the direction of the light. After
2 and 4 hours this bending was even more pro-
nounced. On the basis of this experiment the
author concluded that X rays were not identical
with light rays.
Atkinson (1897) conducted experiments to
determine the effect of prolonged irradiations
on plants. Having established by preliminary
experiments that radiations of 1 to 10 hours do
not produce any visible signs of injury in
Caladium leaves, Begonia flowers, and in vari-
ous seedlings, he set up an experiment with
prolonged irradiations (45 -hour exposures).
This experiment was conducted in darkness.
The irradiated plants behaved identically with
the controls that had been grown together with
them in a dark room. When placed in light
both groups exhibited pale green color with this
