difference: the plants exposed to X rays re-
ceived full color more slowly than the plants
which had not been subjected to radiation. This
observation forced Atkinson to assume that X
rays exert a certain detrimental effect on plas-
tids. He did not succeed in establishing any
other differences in the plants despite the pro-
longed exposure.
Lopriore in his experiments (1897) found
indications of the stimulating effect of X rays.
By subjecting parts of plants of Vallisneria
spiralis to X rays, an acceleration of the move-
ment of protoplasm in the cells was discovered.
By subjecting germinating pollen tubes of two
plants ( Genista and Darlingtonia ) to the action
of X rays, he succeeded in slowing down the
process of germination.
Maldiney and Thouvenin (1898) were the first
to perform experiments involving irradiation of
seeds (they used seeds of Convolvulvus arvensis ,
Lepidium sativum , and Panicum miliaceum) ; and
concluded that X rays accelerate the germination
of seeds. In addition, they observed that X rays
do not affect the formation of chlorophyll since
the sprouts come up from the ground with the
characteristic pale green coloring. Unfortu-
nately, the amount of seeds used (only 3 in each
experiment and in each control) was not signifi-
cant. The question of stimulation by exposure
to X rays consequently remained unsettled as a
result of insufficient evidence. However, as
compared with previous experiments, this is a
step forward since the authors noted the amper-
age and the distance from the source of radia-
tion.
Perthes* (1904) studied the effects of X rays
on Vicia faba seeds which have since become the
favorite subject for experiments with radiation.
By measuring the length of roots in exposed and
control plants he established the retardation of
growth in irradiated plants. His experiments
thus demonstrated the inhibiting effect of X rays.
As a counterpoise to this, the experiments of
Evler (1906) showed that the irradiated seeds of
beans, radishes, lettuce, squash, and cucum-
bers exhibited greater energy in sprouting,
more powerful development, and earlier bloom
than the control plants.
In his first comprehensive experiments,
Kornicke (1904, 1905) used the seeds of Vicia
faba , Vicia sativa , and Brassica napus in large
numbers. His experiments were distinguished
by being more thoroughly set up and controlled
than those of his predecessors. First he investi-
gated the effects of radiation on seeds in various
states: dry, turgid, and germinating. Secondly,
the X rays were used in definite, and ever in-
creasing dosages expressed in Holtzknecht units
(H), in the following quantities: 16, 20, and 26.
With small dosages Kornicke observed tempo-
rary arrest of growth; with higher doses, total
cessation of growth. In the following experiments
a dosage of 20 H produced a small acceleration
in Vicia faba and a significant one in Brassica
napus . The difference between the irradiated
plants and the controls was striking; from 100
irradiated seeds of Brassica napus 50 germi-
nated; from the same number of control seeds,
only one germinated. In due time, however, the
differences between the irradiated and control
plants disappeared entirely.
Guilleminot (1907) used seeds of the gilly-
flower (Mathiola) in batches of 20 for his experi-
ments. Sixteen batches were subjected to pro-
portionately increasing dosages of X rays from
10 to 20, 000 r. Sixteen other batches received
various exposures to radium and four were
retained for control. Two control batches were
left under normal conditions, one at maximum
dryness, and the last batch under increased
humidity. From these experiments he concluded
that retardation of growth is characteristic for
irradiated plants, provided the dosage is suffi-
ciently great. Acceleration of growth was ob-
served when the plants were exposed to dosages
of between 5000 and 7500 r, but the results were
too small to be significant.
By the time Schmidt began experiments in
1910 it had become customary to express dosages
of radiation in HED [Skin Erythema Dose]. Peas
that had previously been soaked in water for 6
hours were exposed to various doses of X rays
(1/20, 1/10, 1/4, 1/2, and 1 HED). The plants
raised from the irradiated plants possessed
unusual size (45 to 50 cm); their leaves and pods
were twice the size of unirradiated plants, and
contained from four to five peas per pod, while
normal plants contained only two or three. The
experiments led to the following conclusion:
"It appears to me most probable that this fact
should have practical significance for horti-
culture and pomology. " TTius, Schmidt con-
firmed the existence of stimulating doses, while
the experiments of Wetterer [1912 - 1913] re-
sulted in diametrically opposite conclusions.
A group of turgid sunflower seeds was divided
into five equal parts. The first part was re-
tained for control, the second received 5 H, the
third 10 H, the fourth 20 H, and the fifth 40 H.
Then the control and irradiated seeds were
planted in soil rich in nutritious substances.
Observation of the sprouts revealed that seeds
receiving doses of 5 and 10 H units germinated
simultaneously with the control seeds; those
receiving 20 units germinated considerably
later, and those receiving 40 units did not
sprout. Further observations of their develop-
ment showed that while the control plants de-
veloped very fully, the irradiated plants showed
progressively poorer development in proportion
to the increase of their exposure to radiation.
The experiments of Promsy and Drevon
(1912) are interesting because they dealt with
the effect of temperature on the sensitivity of
plants to X rays and the rays were used in
