fractional doses. Seeds of lentils, rye, beans,
white lupine and kidney beans were used. These
experiments resulted in the following conclu-
sions: under normal conditions (15°C) the
germinating of seeds exposed to X rays was
sometimes accelerated and sometimes retarded;
when the temperature was raised to 35*^ to 40°
the results became more exact. The doses of
X rays applied under the higher temperature
invariably exerted a beneficial influence on the
sprouting and development of the seeds.
Schwarz (1913) used broad beans (Vicia faba)
in his investigations. They were subjected to
30-, 60-, 90-, and 150-second exposures. The
150-second exposure produced the most favor-
able results; plants receiving this dose exhibited
the tallest and most vigorous development.
Irradiations of five minutes greatly retarded
the growth of the plant. However, this retarda-
tion did not show up immediately; such plants
sprouted at the same time as the others, but
eventually their growth stopped altogether,
although the plants remained green for a long
time. Malformation or atypical development of
individual organs was not observed. To avoid
discrepancies due to the use of unusually vigor-
ous specimens, in the second experiment the
most vigorous plants were selected as the con-
trol, those next in vigor for the weakest dose,
etc. Measurement of the plants 3 weeks after
irradiation revealed that the stem length of the
control plants was 25 centimeters, a 60 -second
exposure to X rays produced 40 centimeter
stems, a 90-second exposure 42. 5 centimeter
stems, and a 100 -second exposure 43. 5 centi-
meter stems, and greater dosages 37 centi-
meter stems. Thus, the experiments revealed
a typical growth curve due to stimulation.
In the experiments of Miege and Coup6 (1914)
a clearly defined stimulating action of X rays
appeared in work with Raphanus and Lepidium .
The irradiated plants exhibited a more vigorous
development in comparison with the controls.
This showed up in a 45% increase in the weight
of the leaves, and a 59% increase in the total
weight of the green part of the plants.
In the same year Kornicke continued his
experiments and produced several papers (1915-
1920) in which he pointed out that since his first
experiments (1904) many authors had demon-
strated the stimulating action of X rays. Thus
he once again began experiments with the seeds
of Vicia faba, Phaseolus multiflora , Phaseolus
vulgaris , Lupinus albus , Sinapis arvensis ,
Papaver somniferum , Zea mays, Triticum
vulgare , A vena savita and BrassicT ! He delib-
erately selected plants whose seeds showed
morphological and physiological differences.
For each experiment 220 to 300 plants were
used and various doses of radiation were
applied. In summary he gives a brilliant ex-
ample of the Arndt-Schultze Law. Turgid seeds
behaved in the same manner: those beginning
to germinate accelerated their development
under mild exposure, whereas they showed
retardation with strong exposures. Data from
experiments with seeds of various species made
it possible to establish the differential sensi-
tivity of plants to X rays. Broad bean ( Vicia
faba) were the most sensitive to X rays.
Yamada (1917) soaked grains of rice in salt
water for 7 days before irradiation with doses
of 3, 5, 7, and 10 H; they were soaked again
and then planted in soil. He did not observe any
acceleration of germination and the size of the
irradiated plants was, at first, smaller than
the controls. Eventually, however, the plants
which had received a dose of 3 H showed the
finest development; they had a greater number
of stems per bush and their yield exceeded the
controls by 40%. Doses of 7 and 10 H lowered
the yield by 2. 4% and 5. 4%, which the author
ascribed in part to injury of the plants by insects
and fungi.
Nakamura (1918) gave a brief description of
his experiments with Oryza sativa ("Sinriki"),
in which the seeds were subjected to 5-, 10-,
and 15 -minute exposure after a brief soaking
in water. He pointed out that plants from seeds
irradiated for five minutes showed an increase
in yield.
Komuro (1919) also established that irradi-
ated seeds of Oryza sativa ("Sekiyama") show
accelerated germination and that seeds irradi-
ated in an air-dry state were less affected by
X rays than those soaked for 12 hours. Opti-
mum doses were 5 to 10 H.
Komuro also experimented with irradiation
of seeds and sprouts of rice from 1917 to 1922,
arriving at the following conclusions: 1) X rays
exert a harmful effect on seeds in proportion
to the water content of the seeds; 2) develop-
ment of the seeds of some plants is accelerated,
in other plants, retarded; 3) moderate dosages
act as positive stimuli on the seeds; and 4)
young plants exhibit a differential sensitivity to
X rays.
In 1920, Jiingling irradiated sprouts of Vicia
faba and then placed them in special boxes with
glass sides. The length of the roots was
marked on the walls every 24 hours. The
response to X rays was based on the growth in
length of the roots and the time of appearance
of lateral roots. Various injuries depending on
the size of the dose were observed. He con-
sidered as a maximum injury the total cessation
of growth in length on the fourth day, and the
appearance of lateral roots. The dose capable
of producing this he called a "full dose" ("Vol-
Idosis"). With a smaller dose, slow growth
continued for two more days, then the growth
rate accelerated and lateral roots began to
appear. This was the "medium dose" ("Mittel-
dosis"). Reversing the process, he judged
