esculenta . In the first experiment (1924), the
differences in the germination rate among indi-
vidual seeds (both control and irradiated ones)
were so great that the author refused to ascribe
any effect to the X rays. Ancel repeated the
experiments of Maldiney and Thouvenin with the
seeds they had used ( Convolvulus and Lepidium)
and likewise obtained negative results. In the
next experiment (1925a) she demonstrated the
importance of the role played by the temperature
at which the seeds germinate after being irradi-
ated. A lower temperature (10째 to 14째C)
increases the injuries because of high X-ray
doses; a higher temperature (20째 to 25째) reduces
them. In her third work (1925b) she raised the
question of the significance of the time interval
from the moment of exposure to the moment of
the appearance of injuries resulting from X
rays. All of her experiments indicate that the
intensity of injuries caused by X rays are a
function of the time from the moment of irradia-
tion: the longer the time interval, the more
pronounced the appearance of injury. In her
fourth paper Ancel (1926) examined in detail the
effects of irradiation on individual parts of
plants (in this case, lentils and beans). In one
of the numerous (but identical as far as results
were concerned) experiments dry lentil seeds
were exposed to doses of 40, 70, 100, and
150 H. When individual parts of the plants were
measured on the 14th day after irradiation, it
was discovered that injuries caused by X rays
were not identical for various plant parts. On
the basis of these data we have set up the follow-
ing table in order to facilitate comparison.
(Table 1).
This table indicates that laterals are most
susceptible to injury; secondly, the main root;
and, finally, the stem. Similar results were
obtained in studying the percentage of injuries
in beans. Finally, in experiments devoted to
determinating stimulating doses of X rays for
dormant buds of lentils, the author (1926)
argues against the experiments of Weber, who
had established the stimulation [by irradiation]
of such buds in lilacs. She subjected 16 sprouts
of lentils (whose stems ranged from 8 to 10 mm
and whose roots were protected by plates of
leaded rubber) to doses of 8 H. On the fifth day
after irradiation two dormant buds (located on
the sides of the stem base) began to develop.
On the tenth day after irradiation the stems had
reached the length of 46 millimeters, and the
buds produced additional shoots with an average
length of 16 millimeters; while on the control
plants the buds showed no development. This
experiment provided the basis for believing that
stimulating doses of X rays exist. However, if
the stem is cut off after it reaches 100 milli-
meters in height, the buds will produce addi-
tional shoots. This fact caused Ancel to believe
that, in the X-ray experiment, it was the injury
of the stem by the radiation, and not the effect
of irradiation which caused the buds to grow.
In order to determine if injury of the stem by
X rays will produce the same effect as cutting,
she irradiated the stem with doses of 20 and
40 H; the dormant buds began to develop as they
had after the main stem was removed. In other
experiments, when the whole plant (except for
the roots) was subjected to radiation, the stem
ceased to develop, and the buds remained
dormant: apparently, the dose was so great
that it injured the buds as well. From her
experiments Ancel concluded that the develop-
ment of buds in her experiments with X rays
was caused by the phenomenon of compensation
resulting from injury to the stem, and not from
the stimulating action of X rays on the buds.
A. V. Kol'tsov and L. I. Kol'tsova (1925) set
up experiments with irradiation of pea and wheat
seeds. They exposed dry and germinated seeds
of Triticum vulgare lutescens to various X ray
dosages, but they did not note differences in the
onset of various phases. In individual cases
an increase of total weight was observed in
irradiated plants, but it was not possible to
arrive at any kind of definite conclusions. Ex-
periments with peas gave more definite results
as far as acceleration of development was con-
cerned. For example, the plants bloomed 3 to
4 days earlier than the controls. However, the
total weights varied to such an extent in their
experiments that the authors were unable to
establish any rule to which irradiated peas
conformed.
Bersa (1926) attempted to approach the work
of previous investigators critically. For ex-
ample, he considered that the work of Schwarz,
Table 1
(based on Ancel' s data, 1927)
Dosage (H)
Percentage of Injuries
Main Root
Stem
Lateral Roots
40
70
100
150
15.79
31.71
37.24
69.14
9.10
21.95
32.81
56.21
23.8
31.57
65.94
83.69
