Czeps, and Schindler* (mentioned previously)
suffered from many shortcomings, but that their
merit lay in the fact that they were the first to
point out the many sources of errors due to the
inconstancy of plant objects. By his investiga-
tions Bersa was trying to show how careful one
must be in interpreting the results of experi-
ments. The first condition to be observed is
to have a sufficiently large number of test ob-
jects. In sprouts of Vicia faba , the author
measured the length of stems from the ring
where the root begins to the growing point and
the length of the rootlets from the ring to the
tip. With a dose of 0. 05 H a 26% increase in
length of the rootlet was observed, but the
author did not attach any significance to this
since only 10 rootlets were examined. The
measurement of control and irradiated rootlets
of Sinapis alba did not reveal any significant
differences, while a measurement of their hypo-
cotyls showed an incontestable acceleration.
The following experiments gave less significant
or negative results. For instance, although an
acceleration of the growth of hypocotyls takes
place, this growth depends on enlargement of
the cells rather than on cell division, i. e. , the
cells of the hypocotyl enlarge greatly as an
aftermath of water intake. In general, the cells
of the hypocotyl are less sensitive than the cells
of the rootlet. If the rootlet is seriously injured,
the lack of water supply also affects the hypo-
cotyl. Weak irradiations, however, do not
affect the water supply of the stem; substances
from the stem reach the abnormally slowly
growing rootlet; this results in overfeeding the
hypocotyl, which accelerates its growth rate at
the expense of the rootlet. Consequently, the
irradiation of sprouts by weak doses does not
always result in growth acceleration, but it is
always indicative of the disruption of the balance
between the shoot and the rootlet. Bersa con-
cludes that X rays are not capable of producing
real stimulating effects.
Beginning in 1928, Johnson began publishing
a series of papers dealing with the irradiation
of plants, but since her investigations are being
continued up to the present [1946], we feel that
it would be more appropriate to describe them
later. •
and since the planting took place very late in
the season, the control plants never blossomed.
The irradiated plants, on the other hand, which
had gotten ahead of the controls, bloomed
vigorously. Doroshenko's experiments demon-
strated the stimulating effect of radiation on the
development of reproductive as well as on the
vegetative organs of the plants. However, when
Doroshenko attempted to increase the exposures
(to 20, 30, and 40 minutes), she found that ex-
posures of 40 minutes fell beyond the optimum,
although still within the threshold of physio-
logical stimulation. Still greater exposures
(I hour, 1 hour and 15 minutes, and 1 hour and
20 minutes), however, already had a retarding
effect. The application of a second exposure
showed that it had a stronger stimulating effect
on development than a single dose. All these
favorable data apply to Avena byzantina . The
author did not succeed in finding a stimulating
dose for Toulouse millet. The same was true
for flax (of both the curly and the long-fiber
varieties). On the other hand, winter rye not
only developed vigorously but also changed its
form as a result of irradiation.
The first experiments with irradiation of
potato tubers were performed by Sprague and
Lenz in 1929. For their experiments they
selected the tubers of two family varieties:
"Irish Cobbler" and "Green Mountain. " Half
of the tubers were irradiated; the other half
were left for controls. The tubers were sub-
jected to radiation just after sprouts began to
appear. One part (experiment 1) was subjected
to doses of 2 HED; the other (experiment 2) was
subjected to 1 HED. The first leaves in experi-
ment 1 had an abnormal appearance; eventually,
however, only normal leaves developed, and
they remained green for several days longer
than those of the control plants. The yield of
the potatoes in number of tubers was 84. 4% of
the controls for experiment 1, and 104. 7% for
experiment 2. In both irradiated groups, the
weight of the average tuber was above average
compared to the control. Thus we can see that
even heavy irradiation, which injured the leaves
and reduced the number of tubers, increased
the size of the tubers; therefore, the yield was
not diminished.
Doroshenko (1929) set up experiments with
three plants (Avena byzantina , millet, and
winter rye). The conditions of irradiation were
identical in all experiments, only the length of
exposures was varied (5, 10, and 20 minutes).
The effects of irradiation became apparent in
Avena byzantina from the first stages of devel-
opment, especially with the 20-minute exposure.
When the plants which had received this dose
had already given complete shoots, the controls
showed only individual sprouts. In the course
of development the stimulating effects became
more pronounced: tillering appeared 2 days
earlier than in the controls, stems elongated 4
days earlier, ears were formed 2 weeks earlier,
Patten and Wigoder in their experiments in
1929 once more returned to the classical objects
of roentgenology: the seeds of beans, mustard,
and barley. In their opinion, the effect of X
rays on growth and development may be studied
most easily on plants where cell division takes
place so rapidly that the progress of sprouts
may be observed daily. Giving the seeds a
dose of 3 HED, they observed various reactions
which were dependent on the species of plants
since other factors were constant. The most
sensitive, in their experiments, were the seeds
of large beans, especially if they were irradi-
ated from 48 to 72 hours after growth had begun.
In mustard sprouts the smallest doses (about
10
