1/20 HED) caused the most rapid growth, while
irradiated barley lagged behind the controls.
The value of Chekhov's contribution (1930-32)
in irradiating various dry and germinating seeds
(barley, rye, lentils, and oats) lies in his atten-
tion to the condition of the seed at the moment
of irradiation, a condition which varies with
different times of the year, and even of the
month. He demonstrated that weak doses of
radiation had a stimulating effect both on germi-
nation and on further development. When high
doses, which have a depressing effect, were
used in experiments with dry seeds, the growth
curve does not fall evenly; these doses do not
depress germination and the rate of germination,
but after germinating a certain percentage of
the developing plants dies. As doses are in-
creased, the number of plants which die also
increases and the onset of death becomes
shortened. Very strong doses have the effect
that only 1/10 as many irradiated plants germi-
nate as compared to control plants.
Cattel (1931) demonstrated that the growing
parts of wheat sprouts are relatively sensitive
to X rays. His experiments are remarkable in
that he performed them on 200, 000 samples and
kept repeating them for a period of 3 years.
Dry seeds were thoroughly washed in distilled
water; then they were soaked in it for 3 1/2
hours and placed in humid chambers; the cham-
bers were then placed in thermostats at a
temperature of 26° [C]. After 24 hours the
coleoptile, leaf, and two lateral rootlets were
2 millimeters long; the primary rootlet was 5
millimeters in length. At this time sprouts
were selected for irradiation (they had to be of
equal size and completely healthy). After
irradiation the sprouts were once more placed
in humid chambers which were set in thermo-
stats for 48 hours, after which the sprouts of
both the control and irradiated plants were
measured. These measurements showed that
each of the four growing parts (coleoptile, leaf-
lets, lateral and primary rootlets) was affected
to a different degree. These changes could be
observed after only a few hours. Equal doses
of radiation produced equal changes. Sprouts
which had received large doses showed various
irregularities in their development; rootlets
thickened, swellings appeared in cells, etc.
Shull and Mitchell (1933) set up their experi-
ments with extreme care both biologically and
physically. Concerning the physical aspect of
the experiment, the authors subjected seeds to
irradiations which were both quantitatively and
qualitatively identical (100 kv, 5 ma, at a dis-
tance of 30 cm). Tliey used an aluminum filter
1 mm thick. In the biological aspect of the
experiment, the authors used seeds of corn,
oats, and sunflowers; these were placed in
humid chambers on a layer of cotton, soaked in
distilled water, and kept at 22° [C]. After 24
hours the seeds of all three plants began to
sprout. Twenty (and sometimes more) seeds on
an identical level of development were selected,
whenever possible, and were divided into two
parts. One part was retained for control, and
the other was placed on fresh damp cotton and
irradiated. The optimum irradiation for sun-
flowers turned out to be 3 minutes (i. e. , 144 r);
for corn and certain varieties of wheat, the
optimum dose was 2 minutes. For other vari-
eties [of wheat] exposures of 30, 45, or 60
seconds were sufficient. As soon as the irradi-
ations were concluded, the irradiated seeds
and controls were planted in soil, sand, or on
cotton in the humid chamber. Experiments
demonstrated that a variety of hard wheat,
"Minhardi, " was less sensitive to X rays than
"Trumball" which in turn was less sensitive
than a variety known as "Marquis. " From this
the authors concluded that just as there exist
varieties which are more resistant to cold,
there are those which are more resistant to
radiation. The most interesting data were
obtained with corn, a variety called "Madison
Yellow Dent. " Turgid kernels of corn were
divided into three parts: the first was irradiated
with an aluminum filter, the second without one,
and the third part was used as a control. Deter-
minations of moist and dry weight of the coleop-
tiles showed that irradiated seeds are from 5
to 26% heavier in the moist and from 3 to 16%
heavier in a desiccated condition. It is possi-
ble to ascribe this increase in weight of the
coleoptiles to a faster utilization of the endo-
sperm reserves of the irradiated seeds. Sev-
eral weeks after irradiation the plants receiving
1- to 3-minute doses had thicker stems than the
controls or those receiving 5-minute doses.
The weight of the green part of the plant was
greater in the irradiated plants.
Oats [when irradiated] grew irregularly but
at a noticeably rapid rate. A comparison of
the controls and irradiated seeds of sunflowers
gave a good curve for their development. A
group of plants that had been irradiated for 3
minutes was the first to blossom. These ex-
periments indicate that when experiments are
carefully set up, and the proper dosages are
used, favorable results can be obtained. Un-
fortunately, the authors did not follow through
their experiments until the crops were harvested
nor did they repeat their experiments.
Benedict and Kersten [1934] used rays which
were practically monochromatic. They placed
grains of wheat in special dishes such that all
the buds pointed in the direction of the [X-ray]
tube at a distance of 1 centimeter from the
aperture and that a lead shutter could be in-
serted between the seeds and the aperture.
After irradiation, the seeds were treated with
fungicide and allowed to sprout; then their
diastatic activity, content of reduced sugar,
respiration, and water content were deter-
mined. Sprouts exposed to radiation for 5 sec-
onds showed an increase in diastatic activity
11
