and sugar content, but when the dosage was
increased, they observed a decrease in the one
or the other. The amount of substance used
for respiration did not increase by comparison
with the controls, but neither did it diminish
with large doses of radiation. These results
indicate that under the conditions of this experi-
ment irradiated seeds cannot convert their
reserve starches into sugars as easily as nor-
mal seeds, nor can they use their sugar for
growth as rapidly as the controls.
The effect of radiation on seeds of citrus
fruit was investigated by Haskins and Moore in
1935. They observed a curious phenomenon of
premature flowering of two grapefruit plants
grown from seeds that had been exposed to doses
of 300 and 1300 r. One of the plants was an
albino and, consequently, was nonviable; the
other developed more or less normally, despite
its dwarf size, and after a few months exhibited
a second blossoming.
The experiments of Long and Kersten in
1936 were conducted with soya under field con-
ditions. The irradiated and control seeds pro-
duced a total of 12, 751 plants. When the first
beans were formed, the plants were cut off at
ground level and weighed. The weight of the
green part of the plant was greater in the
irradiated plants. Since the experiment was
conducted with large numbers of plants which
had been allowed to grow under normal condi-
tions, and since the average increase in weight
of the irradiated plants, as compared with the
controls, exceeded the standard deviations three
times over, the authors came to the conclusion
that this indicates a true stimulating action of
the radiation, although not an absolute proof
of it.
In 1936 Frolov used three plants for his
investigations, namely soya, wheat, and flax,
which had been used for radiation experiments
by many other authors. Irradiation of wheat
grains not only accelerated development, but
resulted in a 60% increase in yield as compared
with the controls. Experiments in 1936 gave
somewhat poorer results. X rays have a stimu-
lating effect on flax only in the first stages of
development; after that a marked depression
sets in. Irradiation of soya seeds produced
negative results, in contrast to the experiments
of Long and Kersten.
Tushnyakova and Vasilevskii* (1934) set up
experiments with sedge ( Cyperus esculentus ),
soya, blue lupine, tomatoes, and melons. The
sedge was treated with X rays for the purpose
of shortening its growing season and causing it
to multiply vegetatively. The tubers were
irradiated in dry and soaked conditions for 5-,
10-, 15-, and 20-minute periods. At first the
irradiated tubers lagged behind in their develop-
ment, but eventually those which had received
15 -minute irradiations moved ahead. Two
months after exposure the difference between
the controls and the irradiated plants was
striking. The authors pointed out the differ-
ences produced by irradiation which were due
to condition of the materials and circumstances
of the experiment. In 1933*, 1934*, and 1935*
experiments were conducted in the field, and
although there was no difference in the time of
development, the plants which had been irradi-
ated for 35 minutes stood out sharply because of
their height and vigor of development. They
had a high yield and a shorter growing season.
In experiments with soya a shortening of the
maturation period, in comparison with controls,
was observed. The same thing was observed
with blue lupine where the irradiated plants
ripened 12 days earlier than the controls. The
experiment with melons was not concluded, but
it showed that the plants which had received
200 r ripened earlier than the controls. Irradi-
ated Mexican tomatoes ripened more rapidly
than the controls and the number of fruits and
their weight were greater.
The experiments of these authors should be
considered preliminary, despite the fact that
the experiments with sedge were repeated over
a period of several years. The small number
of samples used in these experiments and the
lack of concentration of the data, i. e. , the data
were scattered too widely, prevent us from
treating these experiments as completely
conclusive.
Tsuryupa* (1935) irradiated seeds of hard
wheat Triticum durum variety melanopus , and
also those of oats and cotton. After irradiation
the seeds were planted in growing dishes and
their development was minutely observed. The
discrepancy between the development of the
vegetative part of the plants and their yield in
Tsuryupa' s experiments indicates how different
X rays can be in their effect on different plants.
In experiments with wheat it was observed that
X rays have a greater effect on the develop-
ment of the reproductive than on the vegetative
organs. On the other hand, when oats were
used, the effect was just the opposite. Although
X rays do not increase the germination of wheat
seeds, they greatly increase their sprouting
power. Positive effects in yield were obtained
in some cases, exceeding the controls by 60%.
In addition, the growing season was shortened
so that the irradiated plants ripened 10 days
earlier. In the case of flax the author observed
the activation of the initial stages of develop-
ment, which was followed by depression, while
irradiation of soya seeds caused development
to be retarded from the beginning.
A series of experiments was performed by
Johnson (1926, 1928, two in 1931, 1933 and two
[three] in 1936). In fact, her investigations are
being carried on right up to the present [1946].
The wide variety of objects, the thoroughness
12
