of detail, and the multiplicity of aspects which
this author investigated place her in the first
ranks of X-ray biologists. In her first work,
which was devoted to research on sunflowers
(1926 and 1928), she compared the effects of
doses from 5 to 10 HED on dry and soaked seeds.
She studied the relationship between amounts
of exposure and growth; she investigated the
effects produced by radiation on catalysis, oxi-
dation, and respiration. Not satisfied with these
physiological investigations, she turned her
attention to phenological observations, which
gave most significant results with doses of 10
HED. Her experiments showed that germina-
tion of seeds is not accelerated by irradiation,
while sprouting is slightly retarded. Soaked
seeds irradiated with medium doses came to a
complete halt in their development in the first
3 weeks, after which there was a temporary
acceleration. The depression of growth during
the first 3 weeks as a result of irradiation is
approximately proportional to the dosage.
Plants grown from seeds soaked previous to
irradiation did not attain the size of the control
plants, but they bloomed earlier. In her next
work (1931) the author presented the results
obtained from irradiation of two thistles, sev-
eral Solanaceae and Vicia faba. In order to
give stimulation a chance to show its effects,
Johnson permitted her plants to grow for 25
days, since previous experiments demonstrated
that the effects of radiation tend to vanish 3
weeks after irradiation unless a second dose
is administered. Comparative examination of
fresh and dried weights of the irradiated and
control plants revealed that only one plant,
"sunberry, " had increased its weight due to
stimulation with weak doses of X rays. Since
one weak dose, in Johnson's experiments, did
not produce stimulation, she gave a second dose
after a certain interval. It is interesting that
in these experiments Johnson used the same
dose for Vicia faba as Patten and Wigoder, who
pointed to the increase in size of the plant as a
result of irradiation. Despite the fact that
identical conditions were maintained for irradi-
ation (seeds were used after being allowed to
germinate for 40 hours in water), Johnson
failed to observe any stimulation in the roots or
tubers. Irradiation of tulip bulbs caused the
leaves to lengthen, but left the formation of
flowers unaffected. In this work the author
presents her observations concerning the in-
crease in growth of plants by irradiation of
bulbs and tubers of certain plants. She points
out that when these experiments were set up
under more or less field conditions, they did
not exhibit the effects of stimulation. The
irradiation of wild potato tubers from Colorado
gave favorable results in the preliminary ex-
periments. However, this experiment was
given up when the author discovered that upon
repetition with a large number of samples, this
reaction could not be obtained.
Finally, Johnson [1936c] wrote a long article
in Duggar's book entitled The Biological Effect
of Radiation in which she summarized the re-
sults obtained by her, and others. Johnson
concluded that strong and medium doses of rays
have a harmful effect on the development of
plants. As for weak doses, she considers that
in the rare cases where they produced results,
the authors did not give sufficient consideration
to the individual variability of plants.
Zankevich and Brunst ( 1937) were studying
the effects of X radiation on individual develop-
ments of tobacco [ Nicotiana rustica ], poppies,
flax, and rhubarb. Increasing doses of radia-
tion were used (250, 500, 750, 1500, 3000,
6000, and 10, 000 r). Doses of 500 and 750 r
had a stimulating effect on tobacco and flax. In
tobacco the increase in size was of transitory
nature, but in flax a certain amount of stimula-
tion was retained until the end of the growing
season. Medium doses of radiation resulted in
a retardation of growth, which was in degree
directly proportional to the dosage. Large
doses had a lethal effect. The authors make
an interesting observation to the effect that the
"latent period" of plants is of different dura-
tion: in poppies and flax it lasts 7 to 10 days,
while in tobacco and rhubarb it is of short
duration or entirely absent.
Zaurov in 1937 used various doses of X rays
on the seeds of Indian hemp. He observed an
insignificant increase in length of stems with
a dose of 500 r in the first experiment and a
similar [insignificant] increase with a dose of
2000 r in a second experiment. Depression
set in starting with doses of 4000 r. Small
doses of X rays (125 to 1000 r) produce an
increase in bushiness; larger doses depress
bushiness.
Breslavets and Sinitskaya (1937), who were
interested in changing the form of ornamental
plants, set out to study the effect of X rays on
these plants. They irradiated dry seeds, de-
spite indications from the literature that irradi-
ation of sprouting seeds is more effective.
This was done for a definite purpose: "If the
effect of some dose of X rays on dry seeds
were to cause a change of shape or coloring in
the leaves, flowers, or both, it would then be
possible to send the dry irradiated seeds to
various horticultural state farms and to ama-
teurs, while sprouted seeds could only be used
by us. " Summarizing the effect of X rays on
five kinds of ornamental plant seeds, the authors
concluded that it was not possible in a single
case to obtain the correct biological curve for
germination and sprouting power of the plants.
However, it is interesting to note that the ex-
periments brought out a differential sensitivity
to X rays of these plants. This result was to
be expected since the five plants belonged to
completely unrelated families. The most sensi-
tive to X rays turned out to be sweet peas; this
could have been foreseen on the basis of
13
