available data, which indicate that the bean
group is particularly sensitive to X rays. Asters
also proved to be quite sensitive in this respect,
while carnations and gillyflowers were so in-
sensitive that doses of 8000 and 16, 000 r had a
certain stimulating effect on them. Concerning
radiosensitivity, tobacco occupies an intermedi-
ate position.
A careful scrutiny of the voluminous data
obtained by the various authors on the physio-
logical action of the rays shows completely
diverse conclusions. Some authors indicate the
existence of stimulating doses; others deny
their existence. This would be understandable
if it were a question of different varieties, since
numerous investigators have established that
plants are variable in their sensitivity to X rays.
However, contradictory results are reported
even when the same species of plant has been
investigated. As has already been pointed out,
the seeds of Vicia faba are a favorite object in
X-ray research. Let us take a look at how
various authors evaluate the results of irradia-
tion of this plant. Perthes found only a depress-
ing effect, Koernicke observed a temporary
cessation of growth, Schwarz obtained a typical
biological curve of development, i. e. , he found
that weak doses of X rays stimulate plant devel-
opment, that stronger ones retard it, and that
still stronger ones stop development altogether.
In the experiments of Altmann, Rokhlin, and
Gleikhgevikht a temporary acceleration of de-
velopment was observed; this was followed by a
leveling off to the rate characteristic of the
controls. Gambarov failed to find the stimulat-
ing dose for Vicia faba equina which had been
established in Iven's experiments. And, finally,
Johnson, in repeating the experiments of Patten
and Wigoder, was unable to confirm the stimu-
lating effect of X rays observed by Patten and
Wigoder, despite the most careful reproduction
of their experiment.
Besides, as Rokhlin and Gleikhgevikht pointed
out in 1925, Vicia faba is not an appropriate
object for the study of the stimulating effects of
X rays because its threshold of stimulation is
too low. It is so radiosensitive that the weakest
doses of radiation cause a retardation of growth
and thus complicate experiments.
Naturally, the question comes up of why
experiments dealing with the irradiation of the
same plant produce such different results. This
is not easy to answer. But if we carefully ana-
lyze all of the experiments, we shall see that
usually the discrepancies can be explained by
an insufficiently accurate measurement of
dosage (this applies particularly to that period
when dosage was measured in erythemas). The
sensitivity of people to X rays varies consider-
ably, and to equate an erythema dose to 600 r,
as some authors do, is completely inaccurate.
In general, it is only in the last few years that
we have learned to measure X-ray dosages with
any great degree of accuracy. Besides this
chief shortcoming, we have to take others into
consideration. In experiments with Vicia faba,
which is the object of investigation of many
authors, it is amazing to note the small number
of seeds used for irradiation. The reason for
this lies in the large size of the seeds, which
constitutes a substantial barrier for performing
the experiment within the restrictions imposed
by the limited field of action of the Coolidge
tube. The desire for great accuracy forces the
investigators to irradiate the seeds simultane-
ously with several dosages, removing petri
dishes (which contain seeds) from the field of
action of the rays at various intervals of time,
in order to secure the most uniform voltage and
amperage. It is not surprising then that some
authors limited their experiments to 5 to 10
seeds of this plant. Despite all attempts to
match the seeds in size and weight, it was still
necessary to take into consideration the indi-
vidual variations, which could have been over-
come only by using large numbers of plants.
Consequently, the criticism of authors (Schwarz
et al) that individual variability of the seeds
completely overshadows the effects of the radia-
tion is entirely justifiable. Only experiments
where the number of plants used is sufficiently
great to permit biometric analysis can establish
whether changes in size and development result
from irradiation. But it is most interesting to
note that the very same authors (mentioned
above), who categorized the experiments of their
predecessors as inconclusive on the basis of an
insufficient number of test -objects, used only
20 seeds in their experiments.
A third source of error in the experiments is
found in the small variation of dosages. Most
authors are content to vary the time of exposure
or the distance from the tube, both of which are
selected at random. It is very characteristic
of authors, who obtain changes from random
doses of X rays in experiments of this type, to
conclude hastily concerning the existence or
absence of stimulating doses.
Experiments which undertake the investiga-
tion of the effect of X rays on plants have still
another shortcoming: most of them are incom-
plete. The majority of investigators either
note only the first phases of development of the
irradiated plants and compare them with the
controls, or cut them down as soon as the first
fruit appears and judge the effect of X rays on
this or that plant on the basis of the weight of
the green or dried mass, ignoring the fact that
Doroshenko (1929) and Tsuryupa* (1934) accurate-
ly pointed out that X rays can affect reproduc-
tive as well as vegetative organs and that their
effect on the former is even more pronounced.
However, the most serious defect of experi-
ments with plant irradiation, as of all experi-
ments with stimulation in general, is the pre-
conceived notion of the investigator. If the
14
