CHAPTER 2
CHANGES OF MORPHOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS
From a theoretical as well as from a practical
point of view the morphological changes caused
by X rays are no less important than the physio-
logical ones.
Of particular interest are the hereditary
changes, i.e., mutations. However, we also
should not overlook such changes as show up
for only one or two generations, i. e. , varia-
tions or modifications, since in agricultural
engineering the application of X rays is quite
conceivable as a technique by means of which
definite changes can be obtained. We shall say
a few words about terminology in order that we
will not have to return to this subject later.
The process which causes hereditary changes
to arise as a result of the action of X rays we
are going to call X-ray mutation (roentgeno-
mutation); the mutated individual we shall call
the X-ray mutant (roentgeno-mutant); the indi-
vidual whose changes are not of a hereditary
nature we shall call the X-ray variant (roent-
geno-variant). Besides, it should be pointed out
that contemporary genetics distinguishes be-
tween two types of mutations: I) chromosome
aberrations and 2) gene mutations.
The study of mutations in objects that have
been most thoroughly investigated (corn and
snapdragons) has shown that all plant organs,
as well as their properties, can be changed
under the influence of X rays.
The scope and great range of the changes
can be seen from the survey of literature that
follows. These changes range from great
interruptions of development and even the
appearance or disappearance of structures to
insignificant changes invisible to the naked eye.
And, of course, there are gradations. The
greatest changes produced by irradiations are
lethal ones, i. e. , the kind where death sets in
during one of the stages of ontogeny. These
are followed by sublethal mutations. These two
groups of mutations are deviations from the
norm, and since they are very obvious, they
have given rise to the popular notion that irradi-
ation produces monstrous, defective, anomalous,
or pathological changes. This popular opinion
points to weakening of the general constitution,
which shows up in the disharmony of the devel-
opment of the organs, shortening of the life
span, decrease of fertility, and loss of resist-
ance to the environment. However, by now
enough facts have accumulated which indicate
the existence of mutations that increase the
viability of plants on the one hand, and which
create new, and more valuable, forms of plants,
on the other. In general, as the methodology
of induction of mutations has improved, it has
turned out that often such mutations appear, in
our case X-ray mutations, which cannot by any
stretch of the imagination be considered to be
anomalies or monsters. It is a different mat-
ter, however, with the establishment of the
mutation changes, since the smaller the devia-
tion from the norm, the more difficult it is to
detect. Starting with a definite boundary, we
can speak of small mutants (Baur, 1933*), which
occur much more frequently than large mutants,
which (just as the former do) change the mor-
phological characteristics and physiological
properties of plants. The occurrence of these
changes often leads even to an increase in the
viability of the mutants.
From what has been described, the tendency
of contemporary experimenters to look for
factors ensuring the appearance of mutants is
understandable. With this aim in mind, various
chemical and physical factors were tested. By
far the most brilliant achievement in this direc-
tion was Muller's experiments, the results of
which were reported at the International Con-
gress of Genetics in 1927. Muller showed that
the frequency of mutations in Drosophila melano -
gaster is greatly enhanced when they are ex-
posed to X rays. The year 1927 can be consid-
ered to mark the beginning of radio-genetics
and of exact investigation of mutations. It is
rare in the history of science to see any branch
of the natural sciences seized upon by so many
investigators and developed so systematically
as was the area of experimental investigations
of mutations induced by short-wave [ionizing?]
radiation. In his first experiments, Muller
showed the existence of a definite relationship
between the dose and the frequency of mutations
and was able to draw general conclusions
33
