concerning the mechanism of the action of
X rays.
Muller's first results were quickly confirmed
because quite independently Gager and Blakes-
lee(I927), working on Jimsonweed [ Datura ],
Stadler, working on corn and barley in the same
year, and Goodspeed and Olsen (1928), working
on tobacco all obtained increases in the fre-
quency of gene mutations and chromosome
aberrations.
Even earlier, however, in 1926, Linsbauer's
substantial experiments on the action of X rays
on mosses and ferns were published. The
author selected these plants because, first,
their structures are not highly differentiated,
and secondly, because of their high regenerative
and reproductive properties. He was also in-
fluenced by the fact that cell division in them
can be observed in vivo . Linsbauer considered
that experiments on radiation of these plants
could throw light on the physiological basis of
the effect of X rays on organisms on the one
hand, and could serve for investigation of the
mechanism of development on the other. From
the mosses he selected: Lunularia cruciata ,
Fegatella cruciata, Fegatella conica , and Riccia
fluitans .~ From the ferns he selected: Lycedium
japonicus and Gymnogramme chrysophila . He
measured the rays in H. We will leave aside his
experiments on the effect of X rays on the
sprouting and growth of these mosses and ferns
since in the current article we are only inter-
ested in their morphological effect.
Normally in liverworts [i. e. , hepatic
mosses], gemmae develop in such a manner that
both growing points grow into the long, widened
top of the thallus, which bears at its invaginated
end an infinitely increasing growing point. When
the thallus is several weeks old, it reveals a
disklike central part, which is the remainder of
the gemma, and issuing from it is a young
ribbonlike thallus with dichotomous branching.
When the gemmae were irradiated by high
doses of X rays (from 10 to 40 H), they began
to show irregularities in their development,
forming thalli with three, four, and more lobes.
Sometimes the irradiation can induce true pro-
liferation. Linsbauer sees the explanation for
such formations in the fact that the irradiation
disrupts the development of the embryonic tissue
of the growing point, and, although the primary
thallus continues to grow for some time, this
growth is due only to the expansion of cells that
are already formed at the moment of irradia-
tion. Eventually the normal growing point
ceases to function, thereby providing an impetus
for its replacement. Sometimes proliferation
is not observed, but the plant remains abnormal,
as long as the growing point does not develop
and the cells formed around it grow into one or
several thalli. Plants closer to the norm which
received a dose of 10 H produce gemmae, while
those which received 20 H have thalli which show
deformations. When doses of 40 H are used,
substitutions take place after 8 days. It is
remarkable that even such a high X-ray dose
does not lead either to necrosis of the individual
cells nor to dying of the thallus.
Irradiation of fern prothallia, which had not
had a chance to develop very far by the time of
their irradiation, makes it possible to observe
that some cells do not multiply at all, while the
peripheral ones give a considerable number of
offspring. Two cells (the eighth and the tenth)
in the observed irradiated prothallium produced
outgrowths consisting of several cells. From
these outgrowths, in place of the original pro-
thallium, there develops the replacement for
the prothallium, the regenerator [proliferation],
which continues to develop further. The ex-
treme variant of such changes is a prothallium
upon which develop three stalks with embryos of
auxiliary prothallia. In addition, it is possible
to observe the formation of additional prothallia
on the basal cells of prothallia filament.
Thus, instead of a normal and gradual periph-
eral growth, in various places the irradiated
thallus produces numerous cell divisions, which
give rise to additional prothallia. Eventually,
the center of cell formation is displaced, as a
result of which separate lobes arise. Further
development of the prothallia proceeds normally
up to the appearance of completely normal
sexual organs. In general, irradiation of fern
prothallia leads to the disruption of the harmoni-
ous development of the plant, since exposure to
irradiation inactivates the cells.
The experiments of Gager and Blakeslee,
published in 1927, were the continuation of
experiments reported at the meeting of the
American Botanical Society in 1922. Conse-
quently, these works should really be considered
the first to be set up with higher plants with the
specific aim of increasing the number of muta-
tions, but a technical point which disqualifies
these experiments is the fact that the investi-
gators used radium rays rather than X rays.
However, the authors used radium enclosed in
a tube of lead glass. As is well known, radium
emanations consist of a radioactive gas yielding
alpha and beta particles and gamma rays. The
latter possess the same properties of tissue
penetration as X rays, since alpha and beta
particles are absorbed by the lead glass; the
effect of radium in this case is reduced to the
action of gamma rays.
It should be noted at this point that as far
back as 1906 Gager exposed the pollen and ova
cells of Oenothera biennis to irradiation. How-
ever, the changes produced by these rays had
a somatic character.
From the experiments of Gager and Blakes-
lee, of particular interest is one which, for that
34
