variation among plants due to the influence of
X rays and the variety of directions that the
changes took as well as the profundity of the
transformations. This permitted him to select
a large amount of material for experiments in
the creation of new forms. The new varieties
of wheat which he obtained by means of X rays
are already being tested. His experiments are
proof, par excellence , of the inaccuracy of the
concept that X rays produce only defective
changes, since completely viable new forms
appear that are in no way inferior, and some-
times are superior, to the forms from which
they are derived.
Horlacher and Killough (1931) observed the
effect of X rays on somatic changes of cotton.
They observed mostly the appearance of dwarfs,
then branching, and fused cotyledons. In addi-
tion, they noted the appearance of wrinkled
leaves, whose form indicated that their various
parts developed at different rates of speed. All
the plants that received high dosages of radiation
(100 kv, 5 ma, with an exposure of 50 minutes,
and a distance of 17 cm) showed variegation of
color in some of their leaves. But plants re-
ceiving a smaller dosage also had variegated
leaves. It would be approximately true to say
that the number of variegated leaves was pro-
portional to the dosage used. There were two
types of variegated leaves: spotted ones and
those with yellow tissue at the corners. The
first type were of three colors: green, yellow,
and white. This condition of the tissues can
result, according to the authors, either as a
result of cytoplasmic changes, or of abnormal
conduct of the chromosomes due to the effect of
X rays, or of both. They consider the variega-
tion which shows up in the corners, or the
chimera type, most interesting. In their
opinion it indicates changes within the nucleus.
One plant from the yellow line produced only
green leaves; it was depressed in its develop-
ment and lay prostrate on the ground. The
authors consider it quite possible that all the
growing buds were killed except one, which
gave rise to the green shoot. Horlacher and
Killough assume that their experiments indicate
the possibility of progressive changes due to
X rays. They regard the appearance of green
leaves on a yellow line or changes from forked
leaves to normal ones as examples of such
progressive changes. These facts also indicate
that gene mutations took place in the somatic
tissues of the plants.
De Mol (1933) irradiated flower bulbs of
hyacinth, variety "Moreno, " at the time when
the flower clusters were forming. Having
divided the bulbs into four groups he gave them
doses of 50, 100, 200, and 300 r respectively.
Among the plants that matured 49 different
anomalies were observed. Meiosis took place
normally, but the greater part of the pollen be-
came sterile. Sterility increased proportion-
ately with the dosage.
Similar dosages were used on tulip bulbs, and
in the mature plants 40 anomalies were observed.
The anomalies, however, were chiefly in the
flowers themselves, which were irradiated
while in the flower [-forming stage]. Their
cells were slowed down in the process of cell
division, from which stems the disharmony of
their development. Summarizing the color
changes of the descendants, de Mol came to the
following conclusions: 1) changes in color are
most pronounced in those tulips which were
irradiated at a time when the process of cell
division was at its maximum, 2) apparently,
the intensity of irradiation was causally related
not to the qualitative changes in color, but to
the quantitative ones.
With various doses of X rays and depending
on the time of irradiation (nearer or further
from the time of reduction -division) it was pos-
sible to find sometimes completely sterile
pollen, sometimes all the pollen seeds had
diploid and tetraploid numbers of chromosomes,
and sometimes the cells were double or quad-
ruple.
MacArthur (1934) set up experiments with
seeds of tomatoes and spinach (also with hens'
eggs), but only the tomatoes gave interesting
results. Seeds (variety Vaughen Meerlina)
were divided into seven samples, 1000 seeds per
sample, one to be used as control and six for
irradiation (110 r, 7 ma, 25 cm from the tube,
without a filter). The irradiation lasted 9, 18,
27, 36, 46 1/2 and 60 minutes, the maximum
dose being equal to 14 1/2 erythema doses.
About 600 control and 1200 irradiated seeds
were planted. Among the latter were 8 yellow -
white plants with chlorophyll deficiencies which
died without forming leaves. From 346 descend-
ants 43 had clear mutational changes (12.4%).
The number of mutations was proportional to
the dosage: those irradiated for 60 minutes
gave 15.9% mutants, those irradiated for 46 1/2
minutes gave 8. 3%. It is possible that higher
dosages would have had still greater effect
since the lethal boundary had not yet been found.
Changes showed up in the coloring of leaves and
stem, leaf form, height, branching, and rate
of growth. The majority of mutations consisted
of changes in the plastid mechanism: the coty-
ledons and first leaves had white or brown
splotches or streaks, or they were dark reddish
purple and shiny. Some underwent changes in
the shape of the cotyledons; 25% of their de-
scendants had polycotyledonous sprouts. The
shape of one X-ray mutant leaf resembled a
potato leaf, another mutant had curly leaves.
There were also two ultradwarfs, but they had
very different leaves. Several X-ray mutants
were noticeable only by their strongly retarded
and squat size. The most interesting new forms
were those whose top growth was partially
affected. Further investigations showed that all
mutations were recessive and single -factored,
more than half of the mutations were lethal,
39
