1) with reduced beards, and 2) with a longer
ear.
Ternovskii in 1935 investigated the character
of mutations induced by X rays on male and
female gametophytes in various stages of devel-
opment. Flower buds of Nicotiana tabacum ,
Solanum melongena , and S. annuum were sub-
jected to irradiation (65 kv, 2-3 ma, without
filter, at a distance of 25 to 27 cm from the
anticathode). Doses were varied depending on
lengths of exposure from 1 to 30 minutes. All
plants of S. melongena died from all the doses
used. Fr^m S. annuum he succeeded in obtain-
ing one fruit with a small number of seeds. In
Xj, 18 plants came up and neither they, nor any
of the plants of the succeeding generations,
showed any deviations. The tobacco turned out
to be least sensitive to X rays and in all doses
a certain number of seeds were obtained. The
flower buds of tobacco behaved variously in re-
lation to the X rays. Young flower buds, i. e. ,
before reduction -division and during it, were
considerably more sensitive to irradiation than
the more mature buds. Natural mutations in
tobacco are quite rare (as Goodspeed points
out) and in Ternovskii' s experiments from
36, 000 control plants not a single mutation was
isolated. Seeds from the irradiated buds exhib-
ited very low germination rates. As early as
the sprouting stage a number of peculiarities
were observed: narrow leaves, very hairy ones,
those retarded in growth, and ramose ones. In
the adult stage he observed the most varied mu-
tations, a fact which made the classification of
deviations more difficult. The different muta-
tions were encountered with varying frequency,
but the narrow -leafed form was the most com-
mon. In general, the number of mutations ob-
tained was directly proportional to the dose.
Ternovskii set as another of his aims the
determination of the significance of sex in his
experiments. He used the following method:
before irradiation the flower buds were meas-
ured and numbered. After irradiation each bud
was emasculated and the anthers collected in
separate little packages. The pollen was then
used to pollinate emasculated but unirradiated
buds. The emasculated and irradiated buds
were pollinated with normal [unirradiated] pol-
len. In Xj 7, 305 plants were examined. The
total percentage of mutants from irradiated
male sex cells was significantly higher than
from the irradiated female cells. As far as the
character of mutations is concerned, the author
did not establish any differences in the descend-
ants of the male and female sex cells. In con-
trast with this, differences in variety acquire
great significance: an experiment in 1932
showed that Dyubek Nikitskii gave 44 different
kinds of deviation, Dyubek Gasprinskii gave
only 2 deviations, which soon perished, and no
deviations in X2. The second generation of
Dyubek Nikitskii very characteristically showed
deviations in the offspring of those plants which
had not revealed any deviations in Xj. This
experiment was then expanded by the irradiation
of four genotypes: Nicotiana tabacum var.
macrophylla , var. c hinensis , Dyubek Nikitskii,
and a Persian varieFy. A total of 2, 800 plants
was used. The variety chinensis and the
Persian variety gave a very insignificant num-
ber of deviations in leaf forms. The variety
macrophylla did not give a single X-ray mutant,
but in one family a haploid was found. Analysis
of this material indicated that the penchant
towards giving rise to hereditary deviations
under the influence of X rays is specific for
the genotype.
In general, the isolated mutants are hetero-
zygotes which segregate in Xg. This property
of descendants is explained by the fact that
changed sexual cells arise alongside normal
sexual cells due to irradiation. Various combi-
nations of the two gave a variable heterozygosity
picture inXj. Observations of Xg andXg
showed that extreme deviations — extremely
narrow leaves, variegated leaves, and white
color of stems — were usually not hereditary,
and their descendants returned to the original
forms. Cytological investigations showed that
these instances were chromosomal aberrants,
chiefly monosomatic ones. However, gene mu-
tations were also observed. In Xg, 3. 9% of
X-ray mutants were found. However, the per-
centage of mutants varied greatly, reaching 30
to 40% in some families. Biometric working
over of X3 has shown that as far as the shape of
the leaves is concerned the investigated families
have formed a new biometric series with a shift
toward having more narrow leaves. On the
other hand, hereditary broad -leafed forms have
also been found. Examination of stable gene-
mutations in X3 and X4 has shown that they have
a normal number of chromosomes (2n = 48) and
that their reduction-division is normal. Five
haploids were found among the irradiated de-
scendants of Dyubek Nikitskii and N. tabacum
var. macrophylla in Xj, X2, andXj. They
were characterized by low stature, small
flowers and complete sterility. Ternovskii
approaches with considerable circumspection
the use of X rays as a means of obtaining muta-
tions of practical value. In any case, he feels
that, at the present stage of development, X
radiation cannot replace cross breeding, which
leads to whole outbursts of new forms.
Lutkov published in 1937* several articles
describing gene mutations produced in peas
and barley by X rays. As source material he
used in his experiments (1937*) two strains of
Pisum sativum . The first strain (D. S. 276)
was obtained from a London horticultural insti-
tute from Pellew, the second (D. S. 228) was
obtained in Holland from Wellensieck. Young
flower buds were subjected to radiation, the
dosage varying from 300 to 2500 r. The per-
centage of fruit set as a result of fertilization
by irradiated pollen fell sharply as the dosage
41
