was increased. A dose of 2500 r had a lethal
effect on the pollen. The number of developing
seeds in the pods was sharply cut down as the
dosages of X rays were increased. Whereas a
dose of 300 r gave from 4 to 6 seeds per pod, a
dose of 1200 r cut this number down to 1 or 2.
Very frequently, despite the development of the
fruit [i. e. , the pods], there would be no seeds
inside. In Xi only 490 plants grew up, which
differed from one another in the power of their
development and in morphological changes.
Cytological examination of the number of somatic
chromosomes in X 2 plants revealed, in one
family, the appearance of trisomic forms with
15 chromosomes. The additional chromosome
induces sharp morphological changes. Thus,
one plant was distinguished by very thin trailing
stems, by characteristically thin and wide, very
large and stretched-out stipules with smooth
edges. The leaf blades also had an elongated
form, the peduncles were thin, the flowers were
smaller than normal ones with a somewhat
underdeveloped and narrowed banner. This tri-
somic plant, 60% of whose pollen was abortive,
turned out to be completely sterile under self-
pollination. Another trisomic plant had rough,
leathery leaf blades, with a shortening of the
internodes, and was partially fertile. A third
trisomic plant stood out sharply first by its
variegated leaves and by a diminution of the leaf
blades. It was completely infertile. In addition,
a tetrasomic form turned up in one of the de-
scendants of a partially sterile plant from a seed
of X3. It had 16 chromosomes instead of 14 and
was entirely sterile.
As for gene mutations, Lutkov found only two
instances of chlorophyllic changes: an albino
and one with a golden yellow leaf color. Muta-
tions of the fasciative type were more frequent.
This type of mutational change (which along with
the fasciation of the stem, induces stemminess
in the plant with distribution of the flowers near
the top in the form of an irregular umbrella) is
definitely of interest from the agricultural point
of view.
In connection with the second subject of his
experiments with X rays (i.e. , barley — 1937*),
Lutkov used doses of 400, 600, 800, 1000, 1200,
and 1400 r. A total of 876 sprouts were irradi-
ated. It became apparent that doses of 1200 r
were sublethal and that stronger doses (1400 and
1600 r) caused all the plants to die in the initial
stages of development. In studying Xg several
chlorophyll mutations and an interesting form of
barley that lacked ligules were found. Since the
plants without ligules appeared among the de-
scendants of a single ear, which produced only
four seeds (another ear, however, produced
plants all of which had ligules), Lutkov assumed
that in the given instance, as a result of X radi-
ation, a somatic mutation had occurred in one
of the cells that produced the single ear and
stem. Final confirmation of the nature of the
mutation of this plant was obtained from X 3 .
This form of barley without ligules turned out
to be stable and produced only liguleless plants
inX3.
In another experiment (1937*) the author used
as his source material the Abyssinian barley
Hordeum distichum var. Stendeli KOrn. , a typi-
cal spring plant. The plants were irradiated at
the stage of ear formation, at a time when the
already formed pollen grains were maturing.
Doses of 500, 1000, 1500, 2000, and 2500 r
were used. The 2500 r dose was the maximum
sublethal dose. Analysis of 7, 355 plants from
X2, which represented the descendants of 213
plants in Xj (besides a whole series of chloro-
phyll mutations of the albino, pale cream, yellow,
and variegated types), produced a form of winter
barley. These plants, which had been left out
to vegetate under field conditions until the middle
of September and afterwards transferred to a
greenhouse, retained their winter type, and con-
tinued to bush out. An anatomic examination of
the growing points showed that the vegetative
cone in these mutational forms of barley is of a
characteristic winter type, i.e., the vegetative
cone has only the embryonic differentiation of
leaves , but no differentiation of embryonic
flowers. Consequently, both by their general
habits and by their anatomical structure these
winter type plants must be considered to be true
winter forms of barley. The character of the
segregation in Xg, and also in X3 and X4 , of
the heterozygous seeds indicates that this par-
ticular mutation is a recessive one, apparently
produced by a transformation of gene S (spring
type) into gene s^ (winter type).
In a third experiment (1937*), sprouts, dry
seeds, and ears were exposed to X radiation.
Analysis of Xj of this experiment shows that the
basic type of deviations was the narrow -leafed
form of the plants, which varied greatly depend-
ing on the stage of its development. Side by
side with almost needle-like forms it was possi-
ble to observe plants with insignificant devia-
tions from the control. The narrow -leafed
forms had low viability and complete sterility.
A very small number of these plants reached
the stage of ear formation; these ears, it should
be noted, had nothing in common with the
double -row type of ear from which they are
derived, rather they remind one of Aegilops .
Other types of "radiomorphs" were two-eared
forms with cylindrical ears (with a development
of additional bracts at the base of the ear), then
plants with a more compact type of ear, plants
with less compact types of ears, etc. Analysis
of subsequent generations demonstrated that all
the types of "radiomorphs" enumerated above
are not hereditary deviations and in Xg produce
normal -looking plants. However, an analysis
of X2 revealed many gene mutations of the re-
cessive type, which arose as a consequence of
X radiation and which were found in X 1 in a
heterozygous condition. The bulk of these
changes consisted of various chlorophyll
42
