Table 20
(based on Lutkov's data, 1937*)
No. of ears
Dose in r
Number
of Ears
Heterozygous
due to
Percentage
Examined
Appearance
of Mutations
of Mutations
400
201
2
0.99
600
160
3
1.87
800
163
3
1.84
1000
131
3
2.29
1200
139
4
2.87
deviations. The frequency of mutations in-
creased with increase of dosage (Table 20).
TTie percentage of mutations was determined
by the ratio of the number of plants that are
heterozygous due to mutational changes of ears
in Xj to the total number of ears examined for
each dosage, the hereditary character of the
changes being checked in Xj.
The basic type of chlorophyll mutations of
the shoots are mutations of the "albino" type.
These are shoots devoid of chlorophyll develop-
ing 2 to 3 leaves and then dying on the twelfth to
fifteenth day of their development. Then follow
mutations of the virens type (white -yellow,
yellow -green, and pale yellow mutations) char-
acterized by lateral and longitudinal stripings of
the leaves, etc. These are all chlorophyll devi-
ations appearing in Xg in a homozygous condition
and are recessive mutational changes of a lethal
type. An exception is formed by a single type,
which is characterized by a longitudinal striping
of the leaves. This feature varies with the dif-
ferent stages of development of the plant. At
the beginning of the growing season these muta-
tional forms look like perfectly normal green
plants. On the twentieth to twenty-fifth day
white stripes begin to appear on the newly ap-
pearing leaves. These stripes are narrow at
first, but gradually embrace greater and greater
areas of the leaf blades. Finally, almost com-
pletely white leaves appear and only a small part
of these mutational forms ever reach the stage
of ear formation. The character of the segrega-
tion of the phenotypically normal plants of Xj
indicates that this mutation is of a recessive
type.
In addition to the chlorophyll, liguleless, and
winter types of barley mutational changes, X
radiation of dry seeds produced hereditary
changes of ears resembling the ears of Hordeum
intermedium . The ears of this mutational form
exhibited branching, forming at the base of the
ear branch ears which were somewhat deformed
in appearance. The number of grains in the
ramose form of barley in some cases reached
25 to 28, whereas in the double -row ears of
Hordeum distichum var. Stendeli the number of
grains varies from 18 to 22. This mutational
form remained stable even in X4. The charac-
ter of the segregation indicates that the given
mutation is a recessive mutation of a single
gene. Still more singular was the mutation
which resulted in the almost complete deforma-
tion of the ear. It was characterized by under-
development of the individual little ears along
the length of the ear, by the absence of flower
membranes, ovaries, and anthers, and by dis-
tortion of the axis of the ear. When individual
seeds of this mutational form were planted, it
proved to be completely stable in X3.
In addition to all the above mutations, five
dwarfs were found in X2. They proved to be
stable and fertile.
Young (1940) observed the occurrence of a new
mutation from irradiated tomato seeds. This
new character remained constant for two genera-
tions. Apparently, the mutation was homozygous.
When the new X -ray mutant was crossed with
normal plants possessing yellow -colored corol-
las, the latter dominated in Fi, and a typical
monohybrid segregation was observed in F2.
Gustafsson and Aberg (1940) obtained two
mutations by irradiating seeds of a pure strain
of barley "GuUkorn. " These mutations (one of
them a double -flowered mutation, the other with
changed scales) are interesting from a selective
point of view since they indicate that it is possi-
ble to obtain mutations that go beyond the limits
of normal variability in cultivated and high
yielding crops.
We turn now to a description of the works of
Stubbe who investigated the effects of short wave
[ionizing] radiation on plants continuously from
1927 [?] to 1940. The first work was taken up
with the purpose of supplementing Baur's inves-
tigations (which were begun in 1927) on obtaining
mutations experimentally. As source material
he used the descendants of the same strain (A50)
of snapdragons that had been used by Baur. This
43
