homozygous family continued to multiply by means
of self-pollination. Stubbe used a voltage of 5 to
10 kilovolts, 5 to 10 milliamperes, the distance
from the anticathode was varied from 10 to 20
centimeters, and the exposures were varied from
5 minutes to 5 hours and 20 minutes. However,
an even greater number of experiments were
carried out with a voltage of 20 to 70 kilovolts.
Flower buds at various stages of development
were subjected to radiation. This was quite pos-
sible to do with a single inflorescence, in view
of the cluster -like shape of the inflorescence of
Antirrhinum ma jus . The immediate consequence
of X radiation was that all the buds undergoing
reduction-division experienced a serious delay
in development. This delay can be so marked
that further development becomes impossible.
Other buds develop into flowers, but they be-
come infertile, although the growing point con-
tinues to develop. Sometimes he observed zones
of growth depression, which affected up to 10
buds. After that normal flowers appeared again.
In 1928, 77 plants were irradiated, and in
1929, 4507 [45079] 2 Xj offspring were selected;
of these 397 had clear indications of transforma -
tion [which arose from 67 parent plants (1930a)].
Stubbe found 30 dwarfs, 209 narrow -leafed
plants, 5 which resembled the radiomorphs de-
scribed by Stein in 1937*, 11 with variegated
leaves, 9 with blue-green leaves, 4 with mutated
flowers, and 126 stunted plants.
In a second series of experiments performed
in 1929*, seeds from a single pod in each of the
mutated plants (all of them were self-pollinated)
were planted. Stubbe' s [1930a] description of
morphological changes indicates that the action
of X rays induces the appearance of an unusual
variety of forms. At first Stubbe called them
mutations only conditionally, but further experi-
ments showed that the major part of these
changes had a hereditary character. Stubbe
divided these changes of form into five groups:
1) Dwarfs. Among them the most extreme
deviations from the norm are represented by
plants whose growing points are absent. With
age the storing up of nutritive substances in the
leaves, causes a puffing up of the epidermis in
the region of the growing point from which,
eventually, new shoots issue bearing narrow
leaves. The viability of these dwarfs is negli-
gible. Other plants - semi -dwarfs - reached
a height of 14 centimeters. One of them had
two flowers which were infertile (in the male
parts), the tubules of the corolla were split as
far as the calyx. A third type of dwarf plants
dispalyed negligible growth with a strong incli-
nation toward branching and plagiotropic direc-
tion of growth. The leaves of all the dwarf
plants were very narrow, small, and often had
2 Ed. note: Text in error; correction is as indicated.
needlelike points on their ends.
2) Narrow -Leafed Forms . The width and
length of leaves, type of branching, form of
flowers, and the fertility of these flowers vary
within very wide limits. The narrow -leafed
forms are usually accompanied by splitting and
other deformations of the flowers. The most
extreme change accompanying the narrow -leafed
type is represented by a single plant whose
petals had a tendency to turn green, the anthers
were absent and, apparently, formed part of the
gynecium, the style was funnel-shaped, the
upper and lower labia were shortened. Nearly
all of the narrow -leafed forms had impaired
fertility. In the majority of the plants the an-
thers were quite brown and empty, or filled
with white, empty pollen.
3) Plants Resembling Radiomorphs . These
were described by Stein* as resulting from the
exposure of snapdragons to radium. This type
of mutant can be recognized very early since
even in young plants dark streaks appear on the
blades and the leaves become wrinkled, which
intensifies during the growth of the leaves and
determines their deformation. In especially
strongly altered shoots the wrinkling of the
leaves carries over into the flowers, which
causes the upper and lower lips to crack and
round out. However, the fertility of these plants
is completely normal. Some shoots at first dis-
play these changes, after which the development
assumes its normal course. When flowers of
this changed branch [strain] are self-pollinated,
individuals appear among the descendants with
distorted flowers having irregular numerical
relationships [of parts].
4) Plants with Variegated Leaves of the
Albomaculata Type . The hereditary character -
istics are transmitted only by the maternal line.
One X-ray mutant (basiflora) is of particular
interest. Its shoots are at first green; then,
after several weeks, they become variegated.
The young leaf blades are green only at their
tips, whereas the central part of the leaf is
white and begins to turn green (starting at the
central vein) only with age. Old leaves have
the normal green coloring.
5) Stunted Plants . While remaining pheno-
typically normal, these plants lag behind their
age group in development and have extremely
reduced viability.
In further experiments Stubbe (1930b) worked
out the methodology of the experiments more
thoroughly. Seeds and seedlings were subjected
to X rays. The seeds had been previously
soaked for 2 to 3 days in water. The seedlings
were irradiated when they were 3 to 4 weeks
old, at a time when the cotyledons had attained
their full development and the first leaflets
were beginning to appear. Only 20 to 50% of the
seeds came up, but after the first few days of
44
