after changes in external conditions. Besides,
this hypothesis is bolstered by the fact that from
the 18 mutations obtained by irradiation of 400 r,
four are obtained many times and only four ap-
peared at first. It is obvious that the 400 r dose
affects the more labile areas. If we call genes
which change frequently, "labile genes," it is
clear that with 400 r the percentage of mutations
of labile genes reaches 78% and then falls from
dose to dose, and that with 3200 r it only equals
25%. Conversely, as the dose increases, the
percentage of mutations of new genes, which
appear for the first time, rises.
Moreover, in his previous work in 1932 Stubbe
established that genes which affect vegetative
organs show an increase in the percentage of
mutations with each increase of dosage, while
genes which determine the shape and color of
the flowers do not show any rise in the number
of mutations in comparison with non- irradiated
plants. From these facts we can conclude that
genes which determine the characteristics of
generative organs are extremely stable or that
the process of mutation is related to various
stages of development.
The results of irradiation of Crepis tectorum
obtained by Gerasimova in 1940 are very inter-
esting. Mature ovicells were subjected to X
radiation. The peripheral flowers were emas-
culated and one half hour after irradiation (with
2800 r) were fertilized by normal pollen. In
1934 from 20 seeds of one inflorescence 8 sterile
plants were obtained, 7 had normal chromo-
somes, 1 was a translocated one (i. e. , an inter-
change of parts of the B and D chromosomes
took place). This latter plant was non -fertile
under self-pollination, but under free pollination
it produced 972 seeds from which (in 1935) 200
plants were grown and subjected to analysis.
It turned out that these descendants could be
divided into three groups: 1) typically normal
plants, 2) plants which repeated the conduct and
external appearance of the original trisomic
plant (based on chromosome B), and 3) under-
developed dwarfs. Cytological analysis revealed
an extremely interesting phenomenon: the
genetic specificity of parts of the chromosome.
The distal end of chromosome B disturbs the
balance of the genes, creating external effects,
whereas the proximal end does not do so. Fur-
thermore, it turned out that if, at one of the
developmental stages, a partial loss of the distal
end of chromosome B occurred in the cells of
the vegetative cone, then monstrous, dwarf,
and generally abnormal forms would develop.
Change of Sex Due to Effects of X Rays
Knapp and Schreiber (1936) irradiated
Sphaerocarpus donnellii in three different
stages: 1) shortly before reduction-division,
2) very young tetrads after reduction -division,
and 3) mature spores. They used high dosages
of X rays (from 1000 to 15, 000 r). The experi-
ments showed the differential sensitivity of
these stages. The young tetrads shortly after
reduction -division turned out to be most sensi-
tive, mature spores the least sensitive. As is
well known, sex in this moss is determined on a
strictly genetic basis. The diploid spore mother
cells (with 14 + X -t- Y chromosomes) always
develop into 2 female haploid spores (7 + X) and
2 male haploid spores (7-1- Y).
When the control spores are planted, they
always produce 50% male and 50% female plants.
After irradiation one always observes a pre-
dominance of male specimens, which becomes
more pronounced as the dose is increased.
Analysis of the tetrads shows that this shift is
due not only to selectivity, or a greater depres-
sion of the viability of the female plants, but
also to a transformation of females into males.
Cytological examination confirms this premise.
If the tetrads had 3 male spores, then two of
them had 7 4- Y, and a third had 7 -I- an incom-
plete X chromosome or a fragment of it. Ap-
parently, that piece of the chromosome which
carries the female determinant is lost. The
transformed male specimens showed little dif-
ference from normal male plants; they had
normal anthers. In general, however, they were
more robust and they developed more quickly.
The authors explained this increase in size of
cells and organs as due to the effect of an in-
creased amount of chromatin. However, the
formation of spermatozoids in the transformed
specimens was disrupted. The spermatozoids
were feebly motile and sterile.
Investigations Performed in the
Electrobiological Laboratory
As has already been pointed out in the first
part of this book, our experiments were per-
formed in a laboratory, which can really be
called an electrobiological laboratory that
changed its location but retained its purpose
and program. The following personnel partici-
pated in the work: Atabekova, Afanas'eva,
Breslavets, Medvedeva, and Tom.
Rye. In our experiments with rye among
plants whose ears were of normal shape and
size we encountered X-ray mutants that differed
in this respect. The most obvious ones were
with branching ears, then those with short and
compact ears (which reminded one of square-
head wheat by their shape), then those with tri-
florous ears, and also wide and flat ones,
spindle-shaped ones, and abnormally thin ones.
Consequently, it was possible to obtain by
means of X rays several new forms from which
a selection could be made.
The most interesting from an agricultural
point of view were two X-ray mutants: 1) with
ears of the squarehead type, and 2) with tri-
florous ears.
46
