additional light. As is well known, hemp changes
its sex under these conditions. Our plants did
not escape these changes; however, the observa-
tions of external changes were limited chiefly
to the male plants, since changes in sex can be
observed more readily in them than in female
plants. Observations of the control plants re-
vealed that due to the influence of the shortened
day 34. 3% of the male plants changed sex. Irra-
diation intensified this process, which increased
as the dose was increased (as can be seen from
Table 22). The number of male plants which
changed sex under influence of irradiation in-
creases up to 3000 r; thereafter the process
becomes somewhat disorderly. It would not be
fair to expect uniformity, since the process is
also affected by the factor of differential survi-
val of the sexes. From this we may conclude
that plants which have undergone the most pro-
found changes, including sexual changes, are
the first to die. As a result of irradiation not
only did the number of transformed plants in-
crease, but the changes were more profound
than in the control plants. The changes pro-
duced by 2000 r were so great that some of the
male plants produced seeds which eventually
grew up normally (Fig. 15). One plant which at
first developed as a pure female plant later
produced a branch near the top with only male
flowers on it. In this way chimeric plants were
produced. Another plant that at first was a
typical female plant eventually produced male
flowers distributed on various levels of the
inflorescence. There was still another plant,
neither male nor female in character, which had
female flowers alternating with male ones.
There were also plants which had a male inflo-
rescence but only female flowers.
These examples are completely sufficient to
show the wide diversity of forms that arise
from the simultaneous action of the shortened
days and X rays. These observations indicate
that irradiation does not induce any new changes
of sex, but it does intensify or accelerate these
processes, the action becoming more marked
as the dose of rays is increased.
i| Summarizing the experiments of numerous
authors who have studied the effects of X rays,
it is possible to confirm the tremendous signif-
icance of X rays as a stimulator of mutations.
There are no characteristics that they cannot
change.
The most frequent change described is that
of size. It is sufficient to point out that all the
authors note the appearance of dwarfs in the
descendants of irradiated plants, and, occasion-
ally, also of gigantic forms. Since these
changes concern the most diverse plants, be-
longing to different species, we are entitled to
conclude that with the help of X rays we can
create plants of any desired size. From woody
plants we require a high, even stem, since the
height of the plants is correlated with the length
of the fibers. By determining the appropriate
dose of X rays for effect on the plants we can
select from among the new forms that arise
those which are useful, fix them by heredity and
obtain new material for selection of woody
plants. From among ornamental plants we can
easily obtain dwarf forms since they occur very
frequently.
The general characteristics of the plants
change just as frequently. Many investigators
succeeded in obtaining by irradiation forms with
very little branching as well as forms which
branched a great deal. Plants which do not
branch much and which have few stems are
very valuable among plants which produce woody
fibers. On the other hand, in plants which are
raised for the green mass, such as fodder
grasses, having much branching and many
stems is an asset.
The action of X rays is capable of producing
great changes in leaves in respect to form,
color, and structure. In plants where the size
of the leaf is of prime importance (tobacco, tea,
etc. ) it is possible to select from among the
X-ray mutants those with large leaves. The
wide range of leaf changes can be used for
decorative purposes, using as source material
now wide leaves, now narrow, needle -like ones
to create the new forms that are so prized in
horticulture. Changes in leaf structure can
serve the same purpose. It is sufficient, for
example, to produce a wrinkled appearance with
swellings in certain parts of the leaf blade. All
these changes can only be welcomed by horti-
culturalists since they increase the variety of
available plants. To this must be added the
variegated coloring of the leaves which also
develops quite frequently as a result of irradia-
tion. Leaves lose their coloring either com-
pletely or partially, in which case the most
curious distributions of white or yellow spots
or stripes can be observed. What unusual
decorative forms can be created by combining
changes of form and coloring of leaves! Equally
rich prospects open up before horticulturalists
in relation to changes of form and color in the
corolla, calyx, and fruit.
What has been said makes clear the tremen-
dous significance of X rays in the creation of
new forms. Many of the changes which have
arisen in plants deserve attention not only from
the theoretical, but also from the practical point
of view. This does not mean, however, that it
is easy to obtain desirable changes in plants.
A great deal of labor is required, not only in
order to find doses that will change the form of
the plants, but particularly in order to see to it
that these changes are desirable ones — a diffi-
cult and time-consuming task. But no matter
what the difficulties may be, they will be repaid
with the success that is bound to crown the
efforts of the persistent investigator, sooner
with some plants and later with others.
53
