constriction of the nucleus, 2) by budding of the
nucleus, and 3) by asymmetrical mitosis. As
for the formation of polynuclear cells (those with
more than 3 nuclei), they arise as a result of
inhibition of the development of the cell wall in
conjunction with one of the following processes:
1) tripolar mitosis, 2) a division of one of the
cells in a tri -nuclear cell, 3) the exclusion of
some of the chromosomes or parts of the chromo-
somes from the division of the nucleus in the
telophase, and 4) the irregular distribution of
chromosomes in the anaphase. Komuro explains
the formation of bi- and polynuclear cells by a
lowering of the viability (senility) of part of the
protoplasm, i. e. , the inability of the protoplasm
to increase sufficiently for normal division.
In addition to the above phenomena, he ob-
served an increase in the size of nuclei and
nucleoli, eccentric position of nucleoli in the
nuclei with the separation of the chromatin ma-
terial from it, vacuolization of nucleoli, and
also the slipping out of nucleoli from the nuclei.
Occasionally giant nuclei arose which filled the
entire cell: they took hematoxylin stain strongly
and contained several pale nucleoli. All these
phenomena were accompanied by pycnosis and
karyolysis. The increase of the size of the cells,
nuclei, and nucleoli, the hyper- and hypochro-
matic condition of the nuclei, according to
Komuro, all indicate a degenerative or senile
condition of the tissues. Komuro considers all
these phenomena reminiscent of the conditions
found in the cells of malignant tumors. This
resemblance in changes he confirmed by his
experiments both with the action of X rays and
with tar on the rootlets of Vicia faba and Pisum .
sativum (1927). And, in a fourth article
(I928[a]), Komuro mentions the appearance of
tumors on the roots of Vicia faba due to irradia-
tion. In the cells of the tumor one finds cells
showing normal cell division as well as cells
which are in a state of disintegration. This
observation shows that tumor cells continue to
grow until they die. It is remarkable that lateral
roots develop completely normally without form-
ing any nodules.
Strangeways and Oakley, [(1924) and Strange-
ways and Hopwood (1926)] observed changes in
cellular tissues immediately after irradiation
or else 80 minutes later. In the initial series
of experiments, the first abnormality to be noted
was the appearance of a granular condition of
the chromosomes in the metaphase and anaphase.
As the X-ray exposure time was increased, a
greater number of cells showed this abnormality,
granular changes in the chromosomes became
more distinct, and finally some of the chromo-
somes underwent fragmentation. Following a
more prolonged period of radiation (60 minutes),
the cytoplasm also becomes granular and less
dense. At the same time, the outline of the
cells changes and becomes abnormal, and the
cytoplasm breaks up into separate parts. In
other cells, the nucleus and cytoplasm suddenly
fall apart and a ray-like structure appears.
This ray-like structure arises from small areas
of the protoplasm, some of which contain large
or tiny droplets of nuclear material. Finally,
the cells become so disorganized that only
shadows of dispersed fragments of the nucleus
and cytoplasm remain. Eventually, even they
vanish and all traces of the cell and the nucleus
disappear. These experiments show with
remarkable clarity the growth of changes as
doses are increased. However, they fail to
show whether the action of the radiation takes
effect immediately or whether there is a defi-
nite latent period. In order to clarify this
question, the authors transferred the irradiated
cultures into an incubator for 80 minutes. An
examination of these cultures revealed that a
period of 15 to 20 minutes is essential for the
action of X rays to become manifest.
KOrnicke [1905] after irradiating roots of
Vicia faba observed the appearance of waviness
on them which he ascribes to internal differ-
ences in tension. KOrnicke traced this to an
enlargement of the transverse diameter of the
cells in the phloem parenchyma of the root.
The folds, which were observed in the external
parts of the phloem, changed the direction of
growth of the cells. The cells of the epidermis
that were caught in the corners of the fold were
crushed. The author observed the presence of
binuclear and polynuclear cells in the periblem
and plerome. But KOrnicke did not find any
injury to the cytoplasm. Thus, the earliest
radiobiological experiments established that the
destructive power of X rays is proportional to
the dosage used.
The majority of workers who investigated
the effect of X rays on cells performed their
experiments in such a manner that the primary
effect of X rays on cells were not distinct from
the indirect effects, which depend on the reaction
of the organism as a whole. With this consider-
ation in mind, Strangeways and Hopwood [1926]
used the embryonic tissues of chicks in a drop
of nutrient solution for their experiments.
These cultures revealed a wide zone of cells
with 20 to 100 mitotic figures. Division of the
unirradiated cells requires from 40 to 50 min-
utes under these conditions. A whole series of
experiments performed by these authors indi-
cates that the diminution in the number of cells
undergoing mitosis, which may be noted 80
minutes after irradiation, is not observed
immediately after irradiation. When stronger
doses of X rays were used, the authors observed
fragmentation of the chromosomes, their sepa-
ration or delay at anaphase, and sometimes
fragmentation of the cells. When the dosages
are increased, the number of abnormal cells
increases as well as the number of bipolar and
multipolar cells, and then the number of frag-
mented cells increases. In order to establish
the reason for the decrease of mitoses, the
entire series of experiments was subjected to
59
