detailed examination. This examination re-
vealed that when the strongest of the doses used
by these authors was applied, the cells that were
already in mitosis before irradiation (even if
they were in very early prophase) would com-
plete their division. These observations indi-
cate, therefore, that the decrease in number of
cells which undergo mitosis and the absence of
cells in mitosis is due, not to the injury, death,
or decomposition of the cells undergoing mitosis,
but to the inhibition of development of those cells
which had not yet entered or had just begun mi-
tosis at the time of irradiation. This explains
the apparent contradiction between the conditions
of the cultures observed immediately after irra-
diation and those observed 80 minutes later.
Bersa (1927) traced the action of X rays on
cellular elements with particular care. By
means of a comprehensive series of experiments
he established that the greatest number of path-
ological mitoses can be observed after 36 and 48
hours. A careful examination of these mitoses
leaves the impression that the chromatin has
undergone substantial changes: the chromosomes
tend to contract, to stick together, to fragment.
These signs indicate that the viscosity of the
protoplasm has diminished and that the surface
tension has increased. From this there is a
tendency towards the stretching of the threads
(the formation of bridges), on the one hand, and
the rounding out into drops, on the other.
Pekarek (1927) approached this question very
thoroughly in his article. He concentrated on
studying the effects of X rays on mitoses, their
frequency, and on chromosome changes. How-
ever, like Bersa, he thinks that the primary
effects of X rays should be sought in changes in
the colloidal condition of the protoplasm.
Nadson and Rokhlina [-Gleikhgerikht] have
done important work in this area (1926, 1933
[and 1934]). They examined the cells of the
irradiated epidermis of onion scales in a living
condition immediately after irradiation, after a
half hour, after an hour, and so on up to 48
hours. The first consequence of irradiation that
the authors were able to trace was an increase
in the rate of protoplasmic movement. How-
ever, a depression soon sets in, as manifested
in a slowing down of the movement of fat glob-
ules and chondriosomes, and in a weakening of
the Brownian movement. This, in turn, indi-
cates an increase in viscosity of the protoplasm.
Finally, the movement of the protoplasm stops
altogether; an hour later the strands of proto-
plasm disappear and the protoplasm collects in
the corners of the cell. At the same time the
protoplasm, originally fluid and homogeneous,
becomes turbid. This indicates a weakening of
its dispersion. At this time, the nucleus also
begins to change — its granular structure be-
coming more coarse, the outlines of the nuc-
leus and the nucleolus more distinct. Then fat
droplets appear in the protoplasm, pointing to
the breakdown of the lipoproteins due to the
X rays; this phenomenon is lipophanerosis. At
approximately the same time (i. e. , 2 to 3 hours
after irradiation), vacuoles appear. Twenty-
four hours after irradiation the protoplasm
becomes pale, completely transparent, and
watery.
At the same time the vacuolization becomes
more intense, the structure of the protoplasm
becomes coarsely foamy, and lipophanerosis
continues. Finally, the structure of the proto-
plasm becomes bubbly, and on the surface of
the bubbles numerous fat globules appear.
Except for the lipophanerosis the same changes
can be observed in the nucleus as in the proto-
plasm, i. e. , coagulation, vacuolization, and
karyolysis (the dissolution of the nuclear mate-
rial). The nucleolus disappears. During
degeneration the outline of the nucleus very
frequently becomes irregular and highly varia-
ble. The rate of change depends primarily on
the length of irradiation, but also on the physio-
logical condition of the cell.
Nadson (1935) devotes a separate chapter to
X-ray-induced changes in protoplasm. It is
extremely interesting that he associates these
changes with the Arndt-Schultze Law (see Chap-
ter 1 of this book) according to which small
doses stimulate cellular activity, stronger doses
depress it, and still stronger doses kill the cell.
Nadson considers that he not only succeeded in
confirming this law, but also discovered the
principles underlying its action, since cells
affected by irradiation pass through definite
phases, each of which has its distinctive mor-
phological and physiological features. The first
phase is characterized by the fact that the cellu-
lar protoplasm becomes agitated, as can be
seen from the quick and varied changes in the
vacuoles. The protoplasm becomes swollen with
water and its dispersion and penetrability in-
crease. This is the phase of stimulation. This
process is reversible. The second phase is the
dispersive phase when the life processes are
slowed down. The protoplasm, originally trans-
parent and homogeneous in appearance, becomes
somewhat turbid, then finely and delicately dis-
persed, which indicates a lowering of dispersion.
The protoplasm loses water, becomes less
swollen, and its penetrability diminishes. The
vacuoles become considerably larger. Almost
at the same time the disintegration of the lipo-
protein complex (lipophanerosis) takes place.
These phenomena are still reversible if they
have not gone too far. The third phase is a
phase of even more profound, and clearly path-
ological changes, of disorganization and more
or less quick process of dying off — of necro-
biosis and, finally, death. This phase is char-
acterized by the onset of coagulation of the
protoplasm, the continuation of the processes of
losing water, and the final dissolution of the
lipoprotein complex. The permeability of the
protoplasm increases sharply, plasmolysis takes
60
