Stubbe's* experiments indicated that the genes
of Epilobium hirsutum have a greater frequency
of mutation when irradiated within the proto-
plasm of E. luteum than in their own protoplasm.
He conclu"ded that changes in interaction between
the nucleus and the cytoplasm revealed them-
selves in various reactions, which are regulated
sometimes by the nucleus and sometimes by the
cytoplasm.
Changes in Chondriosomes and Plastids
Improved microscopic techniques created a
new approach to the investigation of the effects
of X rays on cells. NUrnberger [1923] made a
major contribution to this problem. Basing his
work on a comparative investigation of normal
and irradiated ova of white mice, he came to
the conclusion that X rays can cause consider-
able injury to the body of the cell. The destruc-
tive action manifests itself in the accumulation
and rolling of the chondriosomes into tangled
balls with subsequent dissolution. For this
reason NUrnberger [1923] considers chondrio-
somes to be extremely delicate morphological
indicators of the condition of the cell.
NUrnberger' s assumption was confirmed by
the work of Russian investigators (Nadson [and]
Rokhlina [1934]; Wail and Frenkel [1925]). On
the basis of their investigations, all of them
came to the conclusion that chondriosomes are
the most sensitive [parts of the cell]. In the
experiments of Nadson and Rokhlina [1934], the
length of irradiation ranged from 2. 5 minutes
(1 HED) to 60 minutes (24 HED). In the cells of
the epidermis of onion scales, the chondriomes
are small granular structures in the form of
chondriosomes. When the action of irradiation
is increased, the chondrioconts puff up unevenly
along their length, the irregularities of their
contours increase, the threads become stumpy
or assume the shape of tadpoles, spindles, and
sometimes of fragments or triangles. In cer-
tain places in the cell, the chondriosomes
gather in very large numbers reminiscent of
the agglutination of chloroplasts. When the
doses are increased still more, the chondrio-
somes undergo still greater changes: vacuoli-
zation, dissociation of monoproteins accompa-
nied by an increase in lipophanerosis, dissolu-
tion of albuminous compounds, and, finally, the
complete disappearance of the chondriomes.
Wail and Frenkel (1925), studying the effects
of X rays on the cells of frog liver, established
that morphological changes first appear in the
chondriosomes and later in the nucleus. Tscha-
ssownikow (1928) came to a similar conclusion
for the same object. He fixed small pieces of
irradiated frog liver at intervals starting with
3 hours after irradiation and ending 6 days later,
and he observed that the chondriosomes were
the first to show the effect of X rays. However,
Tschassownikow points out that in observing
chondriosomes one has to be extremely careful
in drawing conclusions because, in the first
place, chondriosomes can be injured traumat-
ically since in the surface of sections the chond-
rioconts fall apart into grains, and, secondly,
the effect of fixative agents on the surfaces has
to be kept in mind. Consequently, Tschassown-
ikow examined only such cells as could not have
been injured traumatically. It is for this reason,
he believes, that he did not observe the phenom-
ena described by Wail and Frenkel. In his ma-
terials the chondriosomes retain their normal
structure and position for 12, 24, and even 48
hours. Only after 48 to 72 hours and more did
Tschassownikow find truly degenerative changes
in the chondriosomes. The changes consisted
of disintegration of the chondriosomes into
granules, which then swelled into lumps. At
the same time changes took place in the plasma
and nucleus. Sometimes he observed necrosis
in the nucleus, although the chondriosomes were
still completely unaffected. In other cases clear
vacuoles appeared in the plasma alongside of
partially injured chondriosomes. Thus, we
have very few data about changes in chondrio-
somes due to influence of irradiation, and,
moreover, [these data] are contradictory.
Apparently, despite the detailed examinations
of Nadson and Rokhlina, this question has to be
taken up once more, especially since their
observations were made on living cells where
various destructive processes could take place
quite independently of the action of X rays. In
this respect we need merely mention one danger,
namely, the possibility of carbon dioxide poison-
ing in the humid chamber.
Plastids have likewise been insufficiently
investigated to be able to come to definite con-
clusions about what effects X rays have on
them. Lopriore(l898, [1897?]) in the work
mentioned above, described the paling of chloro-
plasts in Valisneria spiralis that was induced by
high doses of X rays. Johnson (1936, [1936a])3
made the observation that chloroplasts develop
improperly. ToUenaar* and Hudson* in tobacco.
Stubbed in snapdragons, Stadler^ in barley and
corn, Lutkov* in barley, et al, all observed
changes in the green parts of plants due to irra-
diation. Certain of these changes were heredi-
tary (see Chapter 2).
Knudson (1931 [1934?]), irradiating the
spores of Polypodium aureum , found giant, ir-
regular, amoeboid plastids in the prothallia,
especially in the peripheral cells. He assumed
that they arose as a result of the fusion of small
plastids. This explanation quite agrees with
SchUrhoff's* findings. The latter established that
under certain abnormal conditions the plastids
'See References following Chapter 1.
^See References following Ch^ter 2.
63
