swell, their edges become soft and gluey, there-
by possibly leading to the development of ab-
normal forms.
Hruby* (1935) after irradiating the spores of
Polypodium aureum S with various doses, estab-
lished that even the strongest doses did not
inhibit their germination. A few irregularities
were observed in connection with the three
highest doses. Then he repeated his experiment
using still higher doses. The experiments indi-
cated that abnormalities in the plastids increase
proportionately to the dose. For example, with
a dose of 2355 r the number of cells with abnor-
mal plastids was 21. 6%, while with 6800 r the
percentage of such cells went up to 46. 5. Vacu-
oles appeared in all the plastids, even in the
smallest, before the nuclei of the cells showed
any changes whatsoever. To a certain extent
Hrub5^ confirms Knudson's observations concern-
ing the fusion of small plastids into large, shape-
less forms. In the majority of cases, however,
the merger of the plastids is explained by the
fact that plastids had begun to divide and that
this division had not reached completion.
Later Knudson [1940] published a long article
describing the action of X rays on fern chloro-
plasts. He selected the fern because it produces
spores that are minute in size and simple in
structure. Every effect induced by X rays would
be direct instead of secondary, as is possible
when seeds are irradiated. The irradiation was
performed with a Coolidge tube at a distance of
12. 5 centimeters, at 78 to 80 kilovolts and 4
milliamperes, without a filter. The irradiation
was performed intermittently. In one experi-
ment the spores were exposed to the following
dosages: 7,000, 10,000, 12,000, 15, 000 and
20, 000 r. In another experiment dosages from
20, 000 to 50, 000 r were administered by incre-
ments of 5000 r. Fifty-one prothallia were
isolated.
The classification presented below is based on
cells of medium age. In very young cells the
plastids are small and undeveloped; in old cells
they are likely to change shape due to age. Knud-
son divides the visible changes into eleven types:
Type A— Normal Plastids
In prothallia from unirradiated spores and
nearly all the irradiated ones, the plastids
are characteristically uniform in size and
shape. They are very small, plate-like or
discoid in shape, and have a thickness of 1. 5^-
Their area ranges between 3 x 4.5 ^ and 6x9m.
Another characteristic of normal cells is the
^ Editor's note: while the article by Hruby cannot
be checked in the original, it is probable from the
text of Knudson's 1940 paper and a discussion later
this chapter (page 64) that the organism is Equisetum
arvense rather than Polypodium aureum .
large number of plastids per cell.
Type B— Grouped Plastids
The plastids are massed about the nucleus in
groups. Prothallia with this type of plastids are
characterized by thin walls, blue-green coloring,
and slow growth.
Type C— Giant and Amoeboid Plastids
Plastids of this type of various sizes and
shapes assume strange outlines. They are
formed by the union of smaller plastids. Later
small plastids arise from them by budding.
When these plastids have a more or less regular
shape, they can be measured. Squarish plastids
of this type were 50 x 70 jU. Occasionally, ring-
like forms occur.
Type D— Large, Thin Plates of Irregular Shape
In cells of medium age, plastids fuse into
thin threads. The starch granules in them are
large.
Type E— Very Large, Thin Plates
Only one prothallium of this type was ob-
served. It was a vigorous grower.
Type F— Irregular, Thin Plates
In cells of medium age they are linked by
thin green strands. In some of the older cells
the plastids fuse.
Type G— Thin Plates of Various Sizes, with
Vacuoles
Type H— Large Plastids
This type occurs most commonly. Plastids
of this type resemble normal ones but are at
least twice as large.
Type I— Thin, Small Plates of Various Sizes
Some of them are connected by thin green
strands, others are vacuolated. The surface
of these plastids is irregular due to large starch
granules.
Type J -Small Plastids, Variable in Shape, with
a Tendency toward Congregating in Groups and
Vacuolating
Nearly every cell shows a colorless, ring-
shaped structure of variable size.
Type K— Vacuolated Plastids
This is an unusual type of plastid. In young
cells the plastids are completely normal, ex-
cept that their contents appear more fluid and
more finely grained. In slightly older cells the
64
