piastids begin to exhibit an irregular distribu-
tion of chlorophyll. Occasionally whole islets of
tissue devoid of chlorophyll appear. In older
cells the piastids are almost devoid of starch.
They are spherical in shape and the chlorophyll
is in the shape of thin or thick interconnected
bands. Some piastids exhibit an equatorial band.
Prothalia with piastids of this type grow very
slowly.
These new plastid types were retained in
culture for 6 years. Since changes in piastids
were not observed with doses of less than
30, 000 r, there can be no doubt that these
changes could only have been induced by irradi-
ation. In other experiments, performed with
millions of prothallia, changes in piastids were
not observed. As has been pointed out above,
a much higher occurrence of abnormal piastids
was observed in Hrub^^'s experiments with
Equisetum than in Knudson's experiments. The
latter explained the difference by the fact that
spores of Polypodium contain less water, while
the spores of Equisetum are apparently in a
more active physiological state and contain a
greater amount of water. As Knudson's detailed
experiments have shown, sporophytes obtained
from prothalia with B-type piastids (grouped
piastids) all had piastids of this type. This
grouped arrangement of piastids was maintained
for 2 to 3 years, after which this grouping was
lost. From young leaves spores were not ob-
tained, and from mature ones only gameto-
phytes with the normal type of piastids were
obtained. Another type of plastid (the giant) is
transmitted to the sporophyte and to the subse-
quent gametophyte as a result of sexual repro-
duction.
These data almost exhaust the observations
of piastids in cells exposed to X rays. This is
explained by the fact that the majority of investi-
gators directed their attention to changes that
arise as a result of irradiation in the nuclei and
in the chromosomes. This is quite understand-
able since the majority of X-ray biologists were
seeking to obtain inheritable changes and conse-
quently paid more attention to the nucleus as the
carrier of hereditary properties. Investigations
devoted to changes in the nucleus and chromo-
somes are very numerous, especially in rela-
tion to zoological objects, due to the well devel-
oped methodology of investigating chromosomes
in the salivary glands. However, there have
been quite a number of these delicate investiga-
tions performed with plants, which often had as
their aim the solution of theoretical questions.
These will be described below.
NUCLEAR CHANGES
Sakamura (1920) was one of the first to
investigate the effects of X rays on the nucleus
and chromosomes of the plant cell. While
investigating somatic mitosis in the rootlets of
Vicia faba and Pisum sativum , Sakamura came
up against certain questions concerning the
structure of chromosomes and this caused him
to set up broad experiments with the action of
various chemical substances and also hot water,
electrical fields, and X rays. Of all these
effects we are interested here only in the last
one. Sakamura demonstrated that when X rays
are used, the first effects to be observed are
shortening and thickening of the chromosomes.
The degree of shortening and thickening depends
on the intensity or duration of action. In the
same way, chromosome changes are retained
longer as the intensity or duration of the X rays
is increased. Sakamura also established that
the maximum shortening of chromosomes does
not take place immediately after stimulation
[irradiation], but that a certain amount of time
must elapse in order for these changes to
appear. If the action of the X rays is too strong,
the chromosomes at metaphase will bunch
together into a single clump, surrounded by a
light area. As soon as irradiation is over, the
clumps begin to dissolve and the shortened
chromosomes scatter in disorder throughout the
entire protoplasm. Since Sakamura never ob-
served achromatic filaments during the forma-
tion of such clumps, he assumed the hyaline
area to be permanently associated with the
general disorganization of the achromatic fila-
ments. In general, the shape and size of the
chromosomes depends on environmental factors.
The chromosomes are capable of reacting to
different conditions without changing their
qualities.
Iven [1925] after irradiating seeds of Vicia
faba, established the frequent appearance of
many nucleoli in the nucleus and also of extra -
nuclear nucleoli. He also observed deviations
from the normal division of nuclei, but not in
all the cells.
Alberti and Politzer (1923, 1924, and
[Politzer?] 1934) performed their experiments
with animals but their observations and conclu-
sions are so interesting that we may include
them, as we have done with the experiments of
many other zoologists. Alberti and Politzer
exposed their materials to 3 -t- 12 HED (first
giving them 10-minute and later 40-minute
exposures). The objects were fixed after 2,
4, 7, and 10 hours, and then after 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, and 8 days. Observing intracellular
changes, they established that 2 to 4 hours
after irradiation the number of mitoses de-
creases and pathological forms appear. Ten
hours after irradiation not a single mitotic
figure was to be seen. On the fifth day mitotic
figures reappeared in material exposed to weak
doses. On the basis of their observations,
Alberti and Politzer distinguish in the action of
X rays: 1) a primary effect, which manifests
itself in changes in the course of existing
mitoses, 2) an intermediate period without
65
