mitoses, and 3) a secondary effect, a reappear-
ance of mitoses which are different from normal
ones.
The primary effect manifests itself in pyc-
nosis of the nucleus in the spireme stage, in an
abnormal distribution of chromosomes, and in
the formation of "hour-glass" figures, which
Alberti and Politzer call "pseudomitoses. " After
a 10-minute period of irradiation, the number
of "pseudomitoses" reaches 8%; after 40 minutes,
25%. The completion of "pseudomitoses" can
take place in two ways: by condensation of the
bridge and by appearance of asymmetrical
daughter nuclei. It is also possible to observe
the flowing of the whole chromatin material
from one cell to another; as a result one cell is
left without a nucleus and partial pycnosis
occurs, i. e. , the chromosomes migrate to
various poles and some [chromosomes] stick
together on the equator. The intermediate
period is characterized by pycnosis and vacuo-
lization of the nuclei. The abnormal divisions
with the secondary effect [of the X rays] are
different than with the primary ones. The sec-
ondary effect is most frequently characterized
by a lagging of the chromosomes. The authors
noted the greatest number of irregularities at
metaphase where the chromosomes were ob-
served to turn, disintegrate into fragments, and
wander off to the poles. As a result of the
irregular migrations of the chromosomes,
micronuclei form, the number of which increases
markedly on the fifth and eighth days after irra-
diation. Besides this, the authors observed
asynchrony of phases. One group of daughter
chromosomes could be in telophase while an-
other could be in prophase. The duration of the
primary effect does not depend on the dose, but
the length of the period without mitoses is largely
dependent on it. With 1/3 H the mitosis -less
stage lasts about 12 hours; with 1 H, a whole
day; with 4 H, 3 days; with 12 H, 5 days; with
20 H, 8 days. The secondary effect, moreover,
is very clearly dependent on the dose. Although
this question has not been solved by the authors,
30 days after exposure to 4 H only normal mi-
toses were observed. The primary effect
affects only those cells which were in a stage of
division or immediately prior to it at the time
of irradiation. The processes of division were
slowed down. The secondary effect affects those
cells which at the time of irradiation were in the
resting stage.
Kanti [Canti?], Kemp, and Juel (1930*) demon-
strated that the number of mitoses diminishes
at the time of irradiation, dropping to zero and
then increasing once more. This slowing down
is particularly marked in the last phases of
division.
Bersa (1927), several hours after irradiating
the roots of Zea mays , observed a strong
depression of nuclear division which increased
as the dosage was increased.
The work of Pekarek (1927) occupies a
unique place in the annals of X radiology, both
by its thoroughness and by its versatility. For
his experiments he also used the seeds of Vicia
faba; he selected seeds of identical size for
irradiation. The seeds were planted in sawdust
and irradiated when they attained a length of
2 to 3 centimeters. On the thirteenth day after
the beginning of the experiment the rootlets of
the control plants began to lengthen and branch
out, whereas the rootlets of irradiated plants
showed no branching and were much shorter.
Pekarek explained the retardation of growth of
the irradiated plants as a halting of cell division.
Pekarek, like KOrnicke, notes an unevenness of
the rootlet surface after irradiation. The folds
spread through the epidermal, the subepidermal,
and the deeper layers. Pekarek thinks that the
folds are the result of unequal growth of the
phloem and the plerome because cells of the
phloem grow in length and plerome cells in
width.
The observations made by Schwarz (1837*)
that nuclei tend to increase in size with age and
shrink when the cells become old were con-
firmed by Pekarek who measured nuclei along
two diameters. These measurements showed
Pekarek that the nuclear mass doubles with age.
The shape of the nucleus also changes; it be-
comes thinner and finally assumes the form of
a disk. The length of the nucleus increases with
age, the width remains about the same, and the
thickness diminishes with age. Under the influ-
ence of X rays, the nucleus assumes an ellip-
soidal shape (i. e. , it behaves like the nuclei
of normal cells which are located much farther
away from the tip of the root). This change in
the mass of the nucleus shows a tendency
towards transformation of the meristem tissue
into permanent [mature] ones under the influence
of X rays. In order to determine the frequency
of cell division, Pekarek made counts in control
and irradiated roots after 2, 5.5, 21, 28, 50,
72, 100, and 144 hours. The counts indicated
that shortly after irradiation the number of
divisions decreased almost to zero. The fre-
quency of nuclear divisions eventually increased,
but did not equal that of normal cells. The
diminution of frequency of divisions indicates
that irradiation affects not only the nuclei in the
process of division, but also those in the resting
stage. In addition, new divisions do not com-
mence for some time after irradiation.
Pekarek also distinguishes between the pri-
mary and the secondary effects of X rays. He
considers primary effects to be abnormalities
in the division of cells that at the moment of
irradiation are in division. Secondary effects
(which he calls anomalous) take place in nuclei
that at the moment of irradiation are in the
resting stage. Immediately after irradiation
with small doses there are no observable
changes; 2 hours later, however, alongside
normal [mitotic] figures, pathological ones
66
