In Hertwig's experiments (1911) with the
action of radium on unfertilized frog eggs, the
particular sensitivity of reproductive cells
(embryonic tissue, testicles, ovaries, skin) is
likewise pointed out. TTie greater the demands
placed by life on the cell and especially on its
nucleus, the greater are the changes in the
nucleus and cytoplasm; life places its greatest
demands on embryonic tissues, whose cells
grow, multiply, and differentiate into other
tissues.
Schwarz (1913) also raised the question of
the stage of development at which irradiation
must be given in order to have a beneficial
effect. He noted an acceleration of growth only
when seeds (before germination) or very young
seedlings were irradiated, whereas he was
unable to induce this acceleration in mature
plants.
A survey of Kornicke's experiments (1915)
indicates that different species of plants display
a differential sensitivity to X rays. Moreover,
the more intense the life processes of a plant,
the more sensitive the plant is to irradiation.
In order to ascertain the reasons for the differ-
ential sensitivity of different species to X rays,
Kornicke formulated the hypothesis that it is
related to the number and size of the individual
cells, which, in turn, are related to the amount
of energy absorbed by them. His experiments
indicate that Vicia faba is injured by a dose of
100 r, Zea mays by a dose of 250 r, but that
even when a dose of 500 r is used, no traces of
injury are observed in Papaver somniferum. In
addition, the extreme resistance of bacteria to
X rays (where the cells, amounts of protoplasm,
and water are minute) and the extreme sensi -
tivity of large cells such as germ cells and
germ -forming cells (which contain large amounts
of protoplasm and water, as compared with
somatic cells), may likewise indicate the direc-
tion in which the reasons for selective radio -
sensitivity should be sought.
Nadson (1922) also points out that radium
does not have the same quantitative and quali -
tative effect on various species of yeasts, and
even on individuals or cells of the same species.
"The more intense and rapid are the life proc-
esses and development of yeasts, the more
sensitive they are to the action of radium; for
this reason young cultures are affected by
radium more quickly, and to a greater extent. "
Petry (1921) considers that the experiments
of Kornicke and Schwarz have proved that rest-
ing (air -dried) seeds are not sensitive to X
rays, even if they are subjected to doses 30 [33]
times greater than those applied to seedlings of
the same species. This proves that the X-ray
sensitivity of various parts of the cells is de-
termined by the physiological condition of the
cell, which must be associated, according to
Petry, with chemical differences. However,
the germination of seeds is not a simple chemi-
cal transformation; it consists of many different
partial processes that cause changes in the
composition and function of the seeds. Conclu-
sions concerning the radiation reaction and the
insensitivity of resting seeds can be made only
on the condition that we know which of these
processes is responsible for sensitivity to X
rays. The simple swelling of germinating seeds
may make them more sensitive to irradiation,
just as may the accompanying activation of pro-
enzymes. Also, the accompanying enzymatic
breakdown of high -molecular reserve substan-
ces [assists in the formation of reactive sys-
tems] by increasing the number and kinds of
molecules as well as by decreasing the size of
molecules which increases the ability of sub-
stances to ionize. The presence of oxygen as
a result of the penetration of water through the
seed coat may have an even greater significance.
Petry also studied the action of other factors
in conjunction with irradiation, for example,
temperature, cyanide poisoning, absence of
molecular oxygen, etc. Experiments showed
that X ray sensitivity is not necessarily related
to the energy of respiration and growth, and
may be independent of them. By its low tempera-
ture coefficient Petry considers the X -ray reac -
tion not only to be an independent process,
independent of the metabolic processes, but, on
the basis of this low coefficient, classifies it as
a reaction of light. Experiments involving
cyanide have demonstrated that X-ray sensi-
tivity is not associated with inhibition of growth.
From this it is possible to conclude that only
the composition of the cells is responsible for
their behavior towards the harmful effect of
X rays, and not the transformation of substan-
ces that takes place within the cell. From these
experiments Petry comes to the conclusion that
the process of injury to the cells is a purely
photochemical reaction. The absence of molec-
ular oxygen does not inhibit sensitivity to X
rays. The final conclusion from Petry's experi-
ments is this: the reason for X ray sensitivity
during the time of germination lies not in a
change in respiration, but in the commencing
changes in chemical composition. The question
of whether the swelling of the seeds as such
exerts an influence, or whether this swelling is
a phenomenon with far-reaching consequences
that accompany germination and form a light-
sensitive system is still unresolved. The X-
ray reactions, therefore, are an independent
process, allied to the photochemical one. It
consists, in all probability, of purely photo-
chemical changes in the important components
of the cell.
Although Perthes' (1923) article was written
in order to clarify other problems, it is directly
related to differential X-ray sensitivity. His
first question is: "do X rays have a selective
action?" All the facts point to the differential
sensitivity of different types of cells, but
102
