Perthes assumes that all cells are sensitive to
X rays in some degree. Nevertheless, the
selective action of these rays is the essential
basis for the effect they have on tumors. Perthes
attaches special significance to the delayed
effect of irradiation, both for practical purposes
and for theoretical investigation. The time
after which the influence of irradiation begins to
manifest itself is extremely variable: the
higher the dose and the sensitivity of the irradi-
ated cell, the shorter the time interval. Perthes
explains the delayed effect by the fact that irra-
diation of the component parts of the cell,
chiefly the nucleus, induces chemical changes,
which proceed slowly and gradually increase
the amount of harmful substances (probably
insoluble products) that intensify first their
stimulating and later their harmful action. He
considers that his hypothesis is in complete
agreement with the available data. In the first
place, it shows that not only delay as such but
its duration is, to a certain extent, in inverse
ratio to the intensity of irradiation. In the sec-
ond place, this hypothesis offers a good expla-
nation for the fact that even during the period of
delay (i.e., before the appearance of the main
effects, the foremost of which are the abnormal
reactions of the cells) cellular reactions slow
down, etc. It also explains why in some object?
the stimulating effect becomes harmful and inju-
rious to the cells and tissues. Observations
indicate that the substance affecting the cell is
found at first in a minimum amount and then
steadily increases under the influence of irra-
diation.
Alberti and Politzer (1924) in their first
article devoted to the action of X rays on organ-
isms write that even the very first biological
X-ray experiments showed that resting cells
were more resistant to the action of X rays than
cells in mitosis or in any of the stages of mito-
sis. If the various stages of mitosis are plotted
on the abscissa and the sensitivity to X rays
(expressing, for example, the number of dead
ova of the horse ascarid) is plotted on the ordi-
nate, we will then get a curve with a peak at
metaphase. Consequently, a small amount of
irradiation will disrupt only those mitoses
which are in metaphase, higher doses will
destroy those stages which are nearest to meta-
phase, both before and after. Finally, there
are doses which will lead to the necrosis of all
stages of mitosis. Greater doses than any of
the previous ones are required to kill the rest-
ing cells.
Geller's observations (1924) on irradiated
beans, peas, wheat, and lilac buds permitted
him to conclude that the effect of radiation is
determined first by the species of the plant and
secondly by their condition. Unsprouted seeds
are more sensitive than germinated ones,
swollen [ soaked] seeds are more sensitive than
dry seeds. The age of the seeds does not affect
their sensitivity. Changes in external conditions
(temperature, humidity of the air) show up
under irradiation. jQngling's* observation con-
cerning the significance of the point of applica-
tion of irradiation is very interesting. When the
tip is irradiated, growth in the tip slows down,
when the whole root is irradiated the side roots
cease their development.
Seide's article (1925*) summarizes experi-
ments with animals, which indicate that major
injuries occur in early stages of development
with moderate doses of X rays and radium,
whereas older stages are completely unaffected
by these doses. Seide's own experiments reveal
an extreme sensitivity of the stages when chro-
mosomes begin to form (prophase). Stages
when the chromosomes are completely formed
(metaphase) are considerably less sensitive.
Rokhlina and GleTkhgevikht (1925*) compared the
action of X rays on sprouted seeds of Phaseolus
vulgaris and Vicia faba. By irradiating them
with identical dosages they established: 1) a
differential sensitivity of these two plants, and
2) a differential sensitivity among individuals.
What is most interesting is that the authors
discovered that the more sensitive the object,
the more quickly is stimulation followed by
retardation. Since retardation is induced by
very small doses in Vicia faba equina, this plant
is not suitable for investigation of the stimulat-
ing effect of X rays. Therefore, the authors
used Phaseolus vulgaris to study this effect.
When the seedlings of the two kinds of plants
were irradiated with an identical dose (1 1/2
HED), two weeks later the seedlings of P.
vulgaris were only slightly retarded in their
growth, whereas the seedlings of V. faba had
stopped growing altogether.
Nemenov (1925 and 1926) considers that old
cells are most sensitive to X rays. The age of
the cell, in his view, is determined by the rela-
tion of the already lived part of its life to the
total life span of the given cell. The essence of
the biological process in the X -irradiated cell,
which leads to its aging, apparently consists of
disruption of metabolism and retention of the
products of metabolism within the cell.
Iven (1925) also takes note of the differential
X -ray sensitivity shown chiefly by different
species of plants. After comparing the data of
numerous experiments, he came to the conclu-
sion that small seeds have low sensitivity to
X rays, and large seeds have high sensitivity.
The most sensitive objects are the seeds of
Vicia faba , which are the largest in size (of
those objects which have been subjected to irra-
diation). He also noted the importance of the
physiological condition of the seeds for success-
ful irradiation, pointing out that soaked seeds
react to irradiation to a considerably greater
degree than dry seeds do. Cytological exami -
nations have revealed that the nuclei of somatic
cells are more stable than those of germ cells.
The somatic cells, in turn, reveal a difference
103
