of behavior: cells of the growing point of the
root and stem are more sensitive than cells of
the permanent tissues.
Ancel (1927) finds the work of many authors
who point out differences in the sensitivity of
dry and sprouting seeds to be defective because
they failed to follow up their studies after the
appearance of shoots. She finds it necessary to
fill out their experiments in this direction by a
study of changes in the sensitivity of lentil seed-
lings from the moment that sprouting begins to
the time the roots reach a length of 24 milli-
meters. Her observations showed that the
sensitivity of lentil seeds continued to rise from
the moment of the appearance of sprouts, and
that it reached its maximum when the roots were
10 millimeters long, after which it went down
gradually to the time the roots were 24 milli-
meters. These results safeguard experimenters
from mistakes, if they set up experiments with
seedlings whose roots have different lengths.
Stadler (1928) was the first to show that with
equal doses 8 times as many mutations appear
in sprouting seeds as in resting seeds. Muta-
bility in generative cells at the time of forma-
tion of sex cells or reproductive organs was
studied in greater detail.
Goodspeed (1929) pointed out that certain
stages of meiosis are particularly favorable for
obtaining chromosomal aberrants, but whether
the same can be said in relation to gene muta-
tions has not yet been determined.
Stubbe (1932*) showed that when snapdragon
buds are irradiated by equal doses more muta-
tions occur if the irradiation takes place after
meiosis than if it takes place during or before it.
In Chapter 1 the results of the experiments
of Breslavets and her co-workers concerning the
variable sensitivity of soaked seeds and sprouts
of rye were presented (Breslavets, Afanas'eva,
and Medvedeva, 1935)^ and also of dry and
soaked seeds of peas ([Breslavets and] Atabe-
kova, 1935). 3
Johnson performed many experiments for the
purpose of clarifying physiological changes of
plants due to the influence of X rays. Two of
her works have a direct bearing on our subject.
In the first of these works (1933), 3 the author
investigated the effect of irradiation on three
varieties of French spinach (Atriplex hortensis):
1) the variety with pale, almost yellow leaves,
the spinach most frequently used as food, 2) the
variety with dark red leaves, which is cultivated
as an ornamental plant, and 3) the green variety,
which exhibits the most vigorous growth. Ex-
periments with different varieties of the same
species were undertaken in order to determine
whether or not the difference in their responses
to an external factor (in this case X rays) stems
from the physiological properties of the plants
themselves — specifically, whether or not the
presence of the colored cell sap of [A.] hortensis
can protect the protoplasm from the~harmful
effect of the rays. Comparative examination
revealed that after exposure to X rays all three
varieties manifested a significantly smaller
size at maturity and a certain retardation in
flowering; these responses were strongest in
the red variety. In general, the red and pale
varieties show greater injury than the green
variety. After irradiation the pale plants had a
greater percentage of stem lesions and dichoto-
mous branching; the green variety had the
greatest number of plants with abnormal leaves,
altered phyllotaxy, and flattened stems; the red
variety exhibited lateral branching more fre-
quently than did the others. On the basis of this
experiment the author concludes that not only
families, genera, and species, but even varie-
ties of a single species can differ in their phys-
iological and morphological responses to
irradiation.
In her 1936 paper Johnson states that the 10-
year investigation of the effect of X rays on
various species of plants makes it possible to
divide the plants into groups according to their
sensitivity to X rays. She divides the plants
that had been investigated into: 1) species that
are not affected by the radiation, 2) species on
which irradiation has a weak effect, apparently
only for a short time after irradiation, and 3)
species that are sensitive to irradiation.
Species of the second group manifest sensitivity
to X rays in the early stages of development,
but as they mature they resume their normal
characteristics. In this group are found:
Chenopodium album, Spinacia oleracea, Cheir-
anthus, Matthiola bicornis, Calandrinia grand! -
flora, Quamoclit coccinea , Asperula orientalis,
Portula"ca^ In the third group, a dos e of 2500 r
is lethal for seedlings of Nemophila insignis ,
Gaillardia picta, and Phlox drummondii . For
other species of this group a dose of 2500 r
diminishes the average size, but out of 39
species, 9 show an increase in height. Dimor -
photheca increases its average height, while
this dose proved to be lethal for many speci -
mens of Clarkia, but those which survived were
exceptionally strong and vigorous (it may be
assumed that they were totally or partially
polyploid). 4 The leaves have a tendency towards
irregularity of shape and color. It is most
interesting that species of this group show large
differences in duration of this effect of irradia-
tion, [increased branching] is particularly evi-
dent in the Caryophyllaceae and in the following
genera: Impatiens, Clarkia, Antirrhinum, and
^References given following Chapter 1.
■•Author's comment.
104
