others. TTie author concludes her article with
the statement that although the reasons for the
resistance or sensitivity of definite species are
not known, nevertheless observations of many
species establish the fact that the members of
certain families (Chenopodiaceae, Portulacaceae
and Brassicaceae) are in general resistant,
whereas members of other families (Solanaceae,
Scrophulariaceae and Carduaceae) are injured
more readily than most.
Nadson [1934] in his article, "At the Inter-
national Radiological Congress, " describes an
interesting report by two French scientists
Golvain [?] and Lacassagne on possible expla-
nations of the "individual" sensitivity of organ-
isms, i. e. , why two individuals of the same
species, which exist apparently, under com-
pletely identical conditions, react unequally to
some external factor, as, for example, the
action of visible or invisible radiation. On the
basis of their experiments they propose the
following explanation: cells have a certain
sensitive zone; the fate of the cells (and, with
them, of the whole organism) depends on what
kind and how many quanta of radiant energy
reach this sensitive zone; this happens to vary
with individuals.
Lambert (1933) set up a series of important
and detailed experiments for the purpose of
finding out the relationship between the physio-
logical condition of the tissues and the sensi-
tivity of the plant to X rays. His experiments
showed that the boundaries of sensitivity of dry
peas lie between 5000 and 10, 000 r; for those
which had been soaked in water 6 to 12 hours,
not more than 10, 000 r; and for those which had
been soaked for 18 to 24 hours, between 2500
and 5000 r. Lambert thinks that sensitivity is
not a function of the static condition of the seed,
which is represented by its chemical composi-
tion, but the result of purely dynamic factors
introduced by swelling which make the seed
sensitive to X rays.
Gustafsson (1936 [and 1937]) observed a very
high sensitivity in cells when they were in meio-
sis or in division within the pollen grain, where-
as resting seeds were able to take very high
doses without losing their ability to germinate.
Some authors have concluded from this that the
radicle and plumules in the seeds are well pro-
tected. However, the pollen mother cells and
tetrads are also well protected by the thick
tissues of the petals and sepals and by the
[anther] wall and tapetal cells, yet they are
extremely sensitive to X rays. Accordingly,
Gustafsson considers chromosomes in the
pollen -mother -cells and tetrads, to be in a
more sensitive stage (probably the stage of their
reproduction). As for the nuclei of resting
seeds, their chromosomes are far from being
ready for reproduction and therefore are not
sensitive to radiation. In addition, the author
attaches great significance to the increase of
water content in dividing cells. A study of dis-
ruptions in nuclear divisions shows that the
majority of them are found in nuclei that have
just begun division. This demonstrates the
differential effect of X rays, on the one hand,
and the cytological inequality between the
nuclei, on the other. It should be noted that
this inequality may depend on the chromosomes
themselves. The fact that nuclei may enter
into division quickly shows that the chromo-
somes are ready for it, but that they are not
able to commence without an external stimulus,
i. e. , water. According to Gustafsson, the
frequency of disruptions of divisions is [directly]
related to the water content, and since the
nuclei, which are the first to begin division,
show the highest frequency in the disruption of
this process, the parallel between these two
phenomena can only mean that the nuclei, which
are the first to divide, contain the greatest
amount of water. This assumption is fully con-
firmed by the fact that it is possible to change
the rate of nuclear division by supplying the
seeds with water.
In their final and exceedingly interesting
experiments Stubbe and Doring (1938), suc-
ceeded in demonstrating that changes in the
physiology of metabolism increase the frequency
of mutations. They did so in experiments with
malnutrition of snapdragons, the seedlings of
which, when grown with insufficient amounts of
nitrogen, phosphorus and sulphur, exhibited
typical symptoms of starvation. However,
plants raised wholly without these nutrients had
the same percentage of mutations as the con-
trols. It is possible to conclude from this that
the deciding factor in mutability is not the lack
of nutrients, but disharmony in the metabolism.
Further experiments showed that under certain
conditions the factor that brings on mutations
may, under other conditions (e. g. , a different
stage in a plant's development), fail to show up
because the transmuted cells may be ejected by
the organism or cannot continue their develop-
ment due to excessive and severe injury. The
authors think it possible that similar processes
occurred in other experiments, e.g., those in-
volving chemical reactions, thus explaining their
frequent failures. Numerous experiments have
demonstrated that mutations induced by irradia-
tion are determined by the physiological condition
of the irradiated object. In order to find out if
mineral nutrition affects the frequency of muta-
tions in irradiated objects, experiments were set
up combining the influence of phosphorus defi -
ciency and X rays, i.e., pollen grains both from
normal plants and from plants raised without
sufficient phosphorus were irradiated. The ex-
periments showed that a shortage of phosphorus
did not by itself raise the percentage of muta-
tions. However, it did so in conjunction with the
action of X rays (6000 r) as maybe seen in the
much higher number of mutations (Table 37).
So we see that changes in diet affect not only
105
