of 8000 r causes still more pronounced irregu-
larities. The nuclei become completely disrup-
ted or else they grow buds or assume abnormal
shapes. Hence, each of the doses of X rays
used by us induced definite intracellular changes,
and, conversely, the number and kind of changes
made it possible to estimate the size of the dose
used. This suggests that intracellular changes
make the best biological dosimeter. They corn-
pletely satisfy the criteria set up by Rubinshtein
(1933) for biological dosimeters: 1) availability
of the object in numbers, 2) uniformity of the
material, 3) sensitivity to reaction, 4) accuracy
of reaction, and 5) independence from external
factors. To these criteria another one may be
added, which was proposed by Johnson, namely,
the speed of reaction. On the third or fourth
day after the irradiation of seeds or on the sec -
ond day after the irradiation of seedlings we can
already have our answer on how a certain plant
reacts to a given dose of X rays by its intra-
cellular changes. To determine these changes
by developing a method for crushing the roots
and staining them with acetocarmine does not
present any difficulties.
RETENTION OF THE EFFECTS OF X RAYS
In the great majority of experiments with
irradiation of seeds, the latter are planted im-
mediately after irradiation. Naturally, the
question of how long the effect can be retained
comes up. Very frequently for theoretical pur-
poses and particularly for practical ones it is
important to retain the effect for a long time.
Our laboratory has often received requests to
irradiate seeds from outlying places where good
X ray facilities and dosimeters do not exist. If
the effect of X rays were retained for only a
short time, it would obviously be impossible for
us to accept such requests. Since the literature
on this question was very contradictory, it be-
came necessary to set up our own experiments
to clarify it.
Guilleminot (1910) writes: "The injurious
effect of irradiation is retained for two years in
its original force. "
Schwarz (1913) considers the effects of X rays
to be reversible, i.e., irradiated seeds retain
the effect induced by X rays for only a short
time.
This opinion is seconded by Geller [1924] who
concludes, on the basis of his experiments, that
the irritating effect of X rays is transitory and
replaced in a few days by normal development
unless the irritation is such that it leads to
gradual death of the plant.
Iven (1925) tries to prove, on the basis of
experiments of Guilleminot [ 1910] and Weber
[1923], that even after several months of
storage irradiated seeds retain the full force
of the primary effects of irradiation.
The experimental data of Muller'^ (1928) and
Harris (1929*) on this subject are very valuable.
They pointed out that the frequency of lethal
mutations was identical in sperm taken immedi-
ately after irradiation and in those taken several
days afterwards.
Afanas'eva (1936 and 1938)* used a plant with
which she had done a great deal of work, namely,
spring wheat Triticum vulgare var. Caesium
0111 (pure strain), the seeds of which were
irradiated with a dose of 16, 000 r. The author
was aware from previous experiments that this
dose invariably produced the same changes in
the cells: inclusions in the cytoplasm, forma-
tion of micronuclei, occurrence of two or more
protoplasts within single cells, changes in the
number and shape of the chromosomes, irregu-
lar nuclear plates, and, finally, chromatin
bridges. In the first experiment the seeds were
planted at five different periods: one day after
irradiation, I month later, 3 months later, 6
months later, and a year later. Table 39 indi-
cates that the various changes described above
appeared after a day and also after all the other
periods including 1 year.
No reduction or disappearance of the effects
of X rays was observed. On the contrary, there
was a certain increase in the various changes,
e. g. , the number of micronuclei and multi-
nuclear cells increases somewhat. Three
months after irradiation the number of micro -
nuclei was 25 per root instead of 12, 6 months
later it was 31, a year later the number went
down again close to the original figure.
It seemed interesting and worthwhile to
determine whether the effect of irradiation could
be retained for even longer periods, say for 2
or 3 years. Simultaneously with the planting of
the seeds which were irradiated in 1934, two
controls were planted. The first control con-
sisted of unirradiated wheat seeds of the 1933
crop, which were kept under the same conditions
as the irradiated ones. Seeds of the same pure
strain of the 1935 crop served as the second
control. In the second table (Table 40) data of
the cytological examination of 1937 are com-
pared with those of 1934.
Table 40 shows that the effect of X rays on
the cells of seeds stored for a long time were
not lost. All the intracellular changes induced
by X rays and observed in roots fixed several
days after irradiation were also observed in
roots fixed 3 years after irradiation. The num-
ber of observed changes, the number of micro -
nuclei, in particular, actually increased, as did
^Editor's note: See Muller reference on page 321,
we have been unable to confirm this reference.
109
