the number of polyprotoplast cells. Examina-
tion of both control groups did not reveal any
changes in the nuclei. Consequently, the experi
ments indicate that the changes induced by X
rays are stable and do not disappear or lessen
even when irradiated seeds are stored for 3
years.
NATURAL RADIATION AND COSMIC RAYS
Muller (1928) in his first papers dealing with
the increase in frequency of mutations induced
by X rays suggested that spontaneously arising
mutations were possibly due to natural short-
wave irradiation. The suggestion was all the
more probable since none of the experimentally
obtained mutations differed in any way from
natural mutations.
Olson and Lewis (1928) in their article,
"Natural Reactivity and the Origin of Species, "
wrote that in nature all living creatures are
constantly bombarded by gamma rays of low
intensity which are due to a wide distribution of
radioactive substances. On the basis of the
material obtained by Goodspeed, the above
authors indicated that as a result of natural
radiation two variants per thousand should occur
in tobacco, i. e. , the percentage that was
actually found to exist. They also set out to
discover whether or not in areas of increased
radioactivity there was not also an increased
percentage of mutations in the fauna and flora.
Similar ideas were expressed by Haldane (1929*)-
Dixon (1929) thought it was possible to conclude
from the work of Goodspeed and Olson [1928]
that cosmic rays (which have the same properties
as X rays) were a factor in the occurrence of
changes by direct action on the germ plasm.
After these theoretical assumptions, a series
of experiments was begun for the purpose of
proving the influence of radioactivity and cos-
mic rays on the mutability of genes under natural
conditions.
Babcock and Collins (1929a and b) selected
for their investigations one of the genetics lab-
oratories in Berkeley and also a small tunnel in
San Francisco. The two locations were sepa-
rated from each other by a distance of 15 miles.
Electroscopic examination revealed the amount
of ionizing radiation in the tunnel was twice as
great as in the laboratory in Berkeley. With this
exception, the conditions of the two experiments
were for all practical purposes identical. In
Berkeley 3481 experiments were performed; in
the tunnel, 2500.
Average percentage of lethals
in the tunnel 0.526 + 0.074
Average percentage of lethals
in the laboratory 0.251 ±0.044
Difference 0.275 + 0.086
From this it is possible to conclude with
certainty that the natural ionizing radiation on
earth is an important controlling factor in the
frequency with which new hereditary character-
istics occur in plants and animals. Although
this does not prove that radiation is the direct
cause of mutations, it does open the way for an
experimental solution of the problem.
Whether natural radiation on earth induces
mutations or only affects their frequency is not
important; what is obvious is that it plays a
significant role in evolution. Radioactive sub-
stances are distributed in the crust of the earth
as well as on the surface. The greater part of
the deposits of radioactive substances which
are located near the surface of the earth, acts
as a source of ionizing radiation that affects the
mutability of organisms in its vicinity.
Engelstad and Moxnes (1934) performed
experiments with the action of cosmic rays on
white mice. Silver mines to the west of Oslo
were a suitable place for the work since 350
meters of ore provided protection against cos-
mic radiation. A building accessible to cosmic
rays served as a control station. Experiments
with the animals lasted more than 10 months;
438 specimens were used representing five
generations, four of which were born during the
course of the experiment. The experimental
animals did not differ from the control animals
either in behavior or in skeletal structure. The
only difference was that the animals living in
the mine were heavier.
Thomas ([1935 and] 1936) wrote two interest-
ing articles in connection with this question.
He points out that there can be no doubt about
the occurrence of mutations; it is sufficient to
point out the new species Spartina townsendii
which arose and spread in our time^ It is diffi -
cult to imagine that such changes can be spon-
taneous; we must seek some external cause of
their appearance in the environment. In a
survey of experiments on obtaining mutations
by artificial means, Timofeeff -Ressovsky [1934]
showed that the only effective method for induc-
ing mutations is bombardment by short-wave
radiation or high-speed electrons. At the same
time, numerous experiments on the effect of X
rays on the structure of the nucleus indicate that
irradiation can also cause cytological changes
which can be associated with specific differ-
ences. However, since the time of Muller' s
discovery that the frequency of mutations can
be raised by the action of X rays, there has
been little hope of proving that species arise in
nature due to natural short-wave radiation or
radioactive particles.
The consensus of investigators in this subject
is that "the mutation process capable of being
induced by natural radiation is out of the ques-
tion since sufficient amounts of energy required
for artificial induction of mutations are not
available. " Thomas [1936] considers this to be
HI
