true as regards the disintegration products of
radioactive elements, but recent discoveries
bearing on the nature and distribution of cosmic
rays have changed the situation considerably.
We now know that photons and high -energy
charged particles reach the earth in large quan-
tities. These particles by their properties and
behavior are very similar to the radiations
produced by X rays and to the emanations of
radioactive bodies; consequently, there is no
reason for assuming that their effect on nuclei
will be any different. However, the difference
is that X rays, under experimental conditions,
fall in a compact and continuous beam upon the
chromosomes, whereas cosmic rays bombard
them in a diffused fashion with separate and
infinitely tiny particles. If we take as a meas-
ure of the activity of X rays the amount of
energy used for tobacco by Goodspeed and Olson
(1928), we shall see that their action is more
intense than that of cosmic rays at sea level.
The majority of doses used to induce mutations
is 1500 times stronger than the action of cosmic
rays. However, recent experiments have shown
that the ionization produced by cosmic rays falls
rapidly as it passes through the atmosphere of
the earth and that it increases with altitude.
Thus, at an altitude of 11, 000 feet the intensity
of radiation increases almost three -fold; at an
altitude of 22, 000 feet, 10-fold; at an altitude of
62, 000 feet the ionization is 83 times as great
as at sea level. In the stratosphere the intensity
of cosmic rays is 150 times as great. This
radiation does not consist of a uniform stream
of equally charged particles; their composition
also changes with altitude. In addition, from
the author's point of view, the phenomena known
as explosions or showers of cosmic rays are
interesting in that they represent beams of
ionized particles, which upon striking, say, a
mass of sporocytes, can deliver direct blows
to the various chromosomes.
Compton and Bennett^ believe that the density
of these beams increases with altitude more
rapidly than the intensity of the whole beam of
cosmic rays. Compton has demonstrated that
showers on Mount Evans (6900 feet at 50° 58"
north latitude) liberate more than 3 x 10 ions.
The same ionization on the same latitude was
applied to tobacco by Goodspeed and Olson
[1928] in their experiments. This brings us to
the conclusion that if modifications of the nuc-
leus and consequent mutations arise due to the
action of cosmic rays, the frequency of their
occurrence must change with the altitude and
location of the plants. At sea level few muta-
tions are observed, but their number rises with
altitude. It should be pointed out, however, that
in high altitudes the intensity of ionization is
affected by the latitude: measurements per-
formed at 22, 000 feet in Panama (20° N) and in
^Reference given in article by Thomas (1936) cited
above.
Peru (4° S) are 29% lower than those made in
California (41° N) and 38% lower than in Wash-
ington (54° N). On the other hand, the altitude
at which plants can grow falls rapidly as the
latitude increases. Consequently, in order to
clarify the question of the influence of altitude
above sea level on the changeability of species
and intensity of cosmic radiation, observations
must be made at various points on the surface
of the earth.
Certain preliminary data permit us to believe
that such an influence exists. Vavilov's^ data
on the geographic distribution of varieties of
the most important grain plants are particularly
interesting in this respect. He established that
the greatest variations in species and varieties
of grain crops are found in mountains of the
tropics and moderately warm areas. Thus, he
noted 60 varieties of Triticum vulgare in
Afghanistan, 52 in Persia, 46 in Baluchistan,
but only 32 in India, 31 in Mongolia, and 12 in
Italy. Vavilov determined seven or eight cen-
ters where agricultural plants originated.
Nearly all these points are located in high
mountains or plateaus not more than 40° from
the equator. There also can be no doubt that
the flora of mountain areas of the tropics and
moderately warm countries is far more varied
than in the lowlands. Standly points out that
the flora of little Costa Rica has more than 6000
species of vascular plants, i. e. , nearly as
many as in the whole southeastern United States,
although Costa Rica is only half the size of
Florida and has many mountainous areas that
have not yet been explored botanically. The
mountains of Costa Rica rise to 11, 000 feet and
more than half of the country lies above 3000
feet. Observations indicate that the plant inhab-
itants of these tropical mountain areas are very
variable; however, the question remains to
what extent the richness of varieties can be
explained by this means. Costa Rica is an
interesting example since it is a young mountain-
ous area of the late Eocene and Oligocene peri-
ods, but a large percentage of its endemic flora
is such that we cannot assume that it is due to
the spread of species from the north to the
south.
The author's idea [Thomas, 1935] is neatly
confirmed by the genus Primula . Although the
section Vernales is widely distributed in Europe
and in eastern Asia, chiefly in the lowlands, it
contains only 19 species; whereas numerous
other sections inhabiting mountainous areas are
much richer in species and endemic forms
(e.g. , Petiolares has 66 species, Nivales has
61, etc.). There is a total of some 330 species
of mountain primulas. Almost all the alpine
genera of Primulaceae are richer in species
than the genera of the valleys.
Jepson* considers it proven that the greatest
profusion of new varieties is associated with
gradual slopes of mountains.
112
