Thomas [1935] sees further proof for his
idea that many important changes in fossil flora
are definitely related to periods of mountain
formation. For example, in the western part
of North America at the time of the Upper Cre-
taceous period mountains rose to a height of
20, 000 feet. But since this was a warm period,
luxuriant in flora, the rise of the mountains did
not destroy it, and some species of plants sur-
vived and underwent mutations. Shortly after
this 83 genera and numerous species are en-
countered in the fossil flora of the United States
hitherto unknown in Cretaceous flora. Accord-
ing to Thomas [1935], this indicates that the
formation of new species is related to the growth
of plants in high altitudes where the intensity of
cosmic rays is very high. To the arguments of
several authors who point out that great varia-
tions in temperature play an important role in
the mountains Thomas [1935] replies that in
certain lowland areas where variations are also
great, such a multiplicity of forms is not en-
countered.
Muller,^ Timofeeff-Ressovsky,9 Efroimson,9
et al are opposed to attaching significance to
natural radiation as the cause of spontaneous
mutability. They base their arguments on the
following considerations. It is known that the
frequency of mutations is proportional to the
dose of roentgen units (r). A single unit (Ir)
produces 2. 1 x 10^ ions. A dose of 3420 r,
which produces 7. 2 x 10^2 ions induces 15 [%]
sex -linked lethal gene mutations in Drosophila
melanogaster. During its life span, which is
about 14 days, the fly is affected by natural
radiation equivalent to 3. 6 x lO" ions, since in
the immediate environment of the fly natural
radiation amounts to 30 ions/sq [cubic?] cm/
second. Since the natural frequency of muta-
tions is 0. 1%, or 1/150 of the 15% which is
induced by a dose of 3420 r, while the ratio of
ionization is 1:200, 000 (i. e. , 3. 6 x lO'^: 7. 2 x
10l2), the disproportion is 1/150 : 1/200,000,
which equals 1/1333. In other words, natural
radiation has to be 1333 times as great in order
to explain the spontaneous frequency of sex-
linked mutations.
Delbruck and Timofeeff-Ressovsky (1936)
think that the more interesting facts presented
by Thomas can be explained by the modern con-
cepts of evolution. The high altitudes of moun-
tainous areas produce specific conditions for the
organisms and a great variety of local types,
which are conducive to isolation and selection
of specially adapted varieties. Each of the free
living populations usually has a large number
of mutations that can serve as a basis for
evolution.
The same issue of the magazine Nature
'These references are cited in article by Delbnick
and Timofeeff-Ressovsky (1936).
[p. 359] that contained the article of the above
authors also contained H. Thomas' answer. He
pointed out that there is a difference between the
ionization induced by cosmic rays and that in-
duced by the gamma rays of radium, and he
further indicated that it would be improper to
conclude that with equal mean intensities their
actions would be identical.
In 1933, Friesen [1936] had the idea of sub-
jecting Drosophila flies to the effect of cosmic
rays in the stratosphere, but it was not until
1935 that he succeeded in raising the flies in a
"stratostat" to an elevation of 15, 900 meters.
For 2 hours the flies were bombarded by cos-
mic rays whose intensity was 100 times greater
than their intensity on the surface of the earth.
Friesen employed the usual method to deter-
mine lethal mutations in the X chromosome. At
the same time an experimental control was set
up. In the 2724 fly chromosomes elevated into
the stratosphere 8 mutations were obtained,
whereas 10 mutations were found in the 2445
control chromosomes. These negative results
with cosmic rays of high intensity should make
us careful about accepting the theory that re-
gards cosmic rays as an important factor in
organic evolution. Stubbe, in 1932-1933, set
up an interesting experiment for the purpose of
investigating the influence of cosmic ultraradia-
tion on the mutability of genes in the well-known
strain of Antirrhinum majus . He also took as
a point of departure the works of Vavilov who
pointed out that high mountainous areas consti-
tute the so-called "genocenters, " which produce
the greatest varieties of species. A high moun-
tain station on the Jungfrau was selected as the
setting for these experiments. Eight -week -old
plants were transported to the station and left
there for one or two growing seasons. However,
the mutability of the genes of the plants culti-
vated at the elevation of 3300 meters did not
differ in any respect from those in the valleys.
These experimental data of Friesen [1936]
and Stubbe [1937] indicate that cosmic ultra -
radiation plays only the most insignificant part,
if any, in the occurrence of spontaneous
mutations.
Since natural radiation and cosmic rays can
account only in trifling degree for the frequency
of spontaneous mutations, they cannot be con-
sidered the sole cause of such mutations.
REFERENCES
1. AFANAS'EVA, A. S. 1936a. Persistence of
action of X rays on wheat. Byull. Moskov .
Obshchestva Ispytatelei Prirody 45: 433-
440. (In Russian)
2. . 1936b. The stability of the
effect of X rays on the seeds of spring
113
