OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 8, 1869. 137
discipline of science and the experience of life. All appropriate hon-
ors and distinctions testified to his worth and the value of his scientific
services. These culminated upon the fiftieth and jubilee anniversary
of his doctorate, on the 30th of March, 1864, when his numerous
friends and admirers of all parts of the world united to do him honor.
Among the many offerings of that day was a large gold medal which
his friends had caused to be struck, with the inscription, " Palmarum
pafri dant lustra decern tibi pahnam. In pahnis resurgcs." But
the infirmities of age were coming on. Yet another lustrum was al-
most filled with not unequal scientific labors, when, after shoi't suffer-
ing, came the final rest; and, as the year 1868 drew near its close,
the bier of Martius was decked with palms, — souvenirs of his greatest
scientific achievement, and with which his name is imperishably asso-
ciated.
Henry Hart Milman * Dean of St. Paul's, was born in 1791, and
died in October, 1868, at the age of 77. It would be difficult to name
among Englishmen of the present century a more pleasing instance of
devotion to letters than that of this eminent man. His early life was
marked by academic distinctions. He gained an honorable reputation
as a poet; and through his long career his scholarship revealed itself
in various occasional contributions to the literature of the time. But
he is best known by a series of historical writings, which covered from
first to last some thirty years of his life.
His " History of the Jews," published in 1830 in the Family
Library, seemed too bold to the public of that day, and it brought
some censure upon his head. This he bore with silent patience, and
outlived it. When after the lapse of a generation he reissued the
book, with additions but without compromise, it was received in a dif-
ferent spirit. Next he appeared as the author of a " History of Chris-
tianity to the Extinction of Paganism in the Roman Empire." His
third and most extensive work, the " History of Latin Christianity,"
was a continuation of this. It comes down to the point at which Gib-
bon's "Decline and Fall" terminates, but is written with a different
purpose and in another vein. Dean Milman's previous diligent editor-
ship of Gibbon had doubtless helped to train him to his undertaking.
Gibbon had not professed to write a history of the middle ages ; and
Hallam had not exhausted the subject. Indeed, a modern layman
* Omitted in the enumeration of deceased members on page 122.
VOL. VIII. 18
