138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
could hardly bring to the history of the mediaeval Church all the sym-
pathy of a clerical scholar. But Milraan's work, though the point of
view is ecclesiastical, is not a mere priestly survey. The mediaeval
Church was an ever-present social force ; and its chief men were in a
multitude of cases the chief men of their time. The great poet of the
middle ages worked in realms from which the Church drew its sanc-
tions and its terrors, and in a certain sense is almost a Church figure.
Thus the history of Latin Christianity is in large measure the history of
Western Christendom. Dean Milman was awake to the greatness of
his theme ; and has made a very valuable addition to general history.
The calm, mild, and genial spirit of the man appears in all his writings.
But though without gall, he was not without nerve. He could take
with courage, and hold with steadiness, the difficult middle ground be-
tween obstinate assertion and obstinate denial. He stood clear of the
dogmatism of the right and the dogmatism of the left. His tone has
been characterized as that of " elegant neutrality." Certainly his turn
was not partisan or polemic ; yet he had not only a cultivated mind,
but heart and will. A certain want of passion and fire, it is true, may
now and then obstruct or slacken the flow of his narrative ; and his
historical style sometimes fails in the rhythm that might be expected
from a poet's hand.
His latest book was a labor of love. The famous Cathedral of
which for many years he had the leading care was an object of his
warm affection. He cherished its history, sought to increase its bene-
fits, and strove to perfect its structure. The best and most character-
istic token of his faithful regard is the interesting volume in which he
has written its " Annals." The ripe knowledge and amiable temper of
the old man give a sunset glow to the record. By those who knew
him he will long be kindly remembered, not only for his attainments,
but also for his qualities.
Six hundred and eleventh Meeting.
September 25,1869. — Monthly Meeting.
The Vice-President in the chair.
Professor H. R. Storer read a paper on the origin of double
monsters in the human species.
