144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
when he left it — make one of the most important chapters in the his-
tory of applied science. It is a great thing to say, but I may not with-
hold the statement, that, in the opinion of those who have officially
investigated the matter, no one invention since Watt's time has so en-
hanced the efficiency of the steam-engine as this for which the Rumford
Medal is now presented to you. If Watt, or his partner, Bolton, could
boast that they held the supply of that which almost everybody longed
to have, power, you may justly felicitate yourself, and permit us to felici-
tate you, upon your ability to supply a greater amount of steam power
for the expenditure, and an exacter nicety in its governance, than any
of your predecessors.
In acknowledgment of this benefit, the American Academy, admin-
istering Count Rumford's trust, now, by the hands of its presiding offi-
cer, presents to you these honorable testimonials of its high apprecia-
tion of what you have done. And the Fellows here assembled join with
me, I am sure, in most sincere and hearty wishes that you may long en-
joy this and similar distinctions, as well as more material rewards of
your genius and skill, — hoping also that these may still be fruitful in
yet other inventions, redounding to your honor and advantage and to
the promotion of the good of mankind.
Mr. Corliss accepted the medals, and replied as follows : —
Mr. President, — Competitive honors are the reward of effort,
stimulated by rivalry and ambition. This honor comes from gentle-
men who scan the whole field of science and art, and in deliberate
council make their awards in discharge of a sacred trust. To this con-
sideration I add the historical associations connected with the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the scientific fame of its members ;
and I receive this testimonial with grateful acknowledgment of a dis-
tinguished honor.
Six hundred and sixteenth Meeting.
January 26, 1870. — Statute Meeting.
The President in the chair.
The President announced to the Academy the decease, dur-
ing the past season, of two members ; viz. of Thomas Graham,
a Foreign Honorary Member ; and of Thomas Sherwin, of the
Resident Fellows.
