OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JANUARY 26, 1870. 145
Professor Lovering made a communication on the theory of
halos, and described the remarkable halo observed by him on
the afternoon of January 6th, inst.
The President presented the following paper : —
A Revision of the Eriog-onecs, by John Torrey and Asa Gray.
This group was first put in order and characterized as a tribe of
Polygonucece by Mr. Bentham, in his monograph read to the Linnean
Society almost thirty-five years ago, and was re-elaborated by him
about eighteen years ago for the fourteenth volume of De Candolle's
Prodromus, which, however, was not published until the year 1856.
In the first monograph there were 40 species described under three
genera. In the Prodromus, where the group ranks as a sub-order, 105
species are described under seven genera. Including Lastarricea, which
Mr. Bentham did not recognize from its having no involucre, there
are 106 species and eight genera, — all the genera except the last, and
all the species but ten, being natives of North America.
Being thus wholly American, mainly North American, and especially
characteristic of our drier Western regions, we are naturally interested
in these plants. To one of us they have long been a favorite study, as
the current botanical works, from the Account of the Collection made
by Dr. Edwin James in 1826, down to the fourteenth volume of the
Prodromus and the Botany of the Mexican Boundary, sufficiently show.
The other, the present writer, in the autumn of 1868 critically col-
lated his own collection (recently and specially enriched by most of
Nuttall's species, generously presented by Mr. Durand) with the her-
baria of Hooker and Bentham, now of the great collection at Kew,
and with Mr. Nuttall's proper herbarium, now belonging to the British
Museum ; and on his return he has, with his partner's specimens,
notes, and sketches to aid him, re-examined the whole, and embodied
the results in the present memoir.
The genera here recognized are seven ; one of Bentham's (Mucronea)
being suppressed, and Lastarricea admitted. If the species are only
slightly increased, viz. from 105 to 115 (counting the omitted Chilian
Chorizant/tes), this is mainly due to the suppression of several of the
older species, especially in Eriogonum, which here amount to no more
than in the Prodromus, although 19 have actually been added.
Clavis Generum.
1. Involucrum immutatum, fere semper calyciforme, raro nullum.
(Folia integerrima.) .... Tribus I. EUERIOGONE^l.
VOL. VIII. 19
