6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
After we get in about 300 or 400 fathoms, which is reached by quite
a rapid falling off at the end of the plateau or gently inclined plane,
we find the fine sand or mud composed of Foraminifera which has so
great an extension in deep water. This we make the end of our lines
at present. The dredge brings up little from that bottom, but that
little often of great interest. Thus I have from it a very fine Isis
from 517 fathoms, and yesterday on the same bottom but less depth 1
obtained several specimens of a small crinoid which I have no means
to determine, but which I believe to be neither a Pentacrinus nor a
young Comatula. I hope to be able to dredge more over that kind of
bottom on our passage home.
I have thus dwelt on the results of the last two weeks' work, because
I believe them to be more important than what I did during the four
preceding months, during which time I have gathered a good deal of
information more or less new or useful, but which did not admit of a
very connected report. I hope to make use of it in proper time.
At the suggestion of Professor Agassiz we have laid a wire strung
with large conch shells from the reef at the Samboes to 10 fathoms,
and are going to extend it to 20 fathoms, with the intention of ex-
amining it in a year or two and noting the corals which may have
grown on the shejls, and their increase of size in a given time. I had
ordered tiles for the purpose before leaving Washington, but they were
never sent, and at Mr. Mitchell's suggestion we took shells. I wish
we had a greater variety of materials at our command, on account of
what I mentioned before as the capriciousness of corals.
Five hundred and ninety-sixth Meeting.
June 9, 1868. — Adjourned Annual Meeting.
The President in the chair.
The Corresponding Secretary read letters relative to ex-
changes, and a letter from Mr. Theodore Lyman, declining
the office of Treasurer to which he was elected at the previous
meeting.
Professor Lovering called up the recommendation of the
Rumford Committee which had been referred to this meeting,
and, in accordance with the recommendation, $ 1,000 were ap-
