OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 7
propriated from the Rumford Fund for beginning the publi-
cation of Count Rurnford's works.
Mr. Charles J. Sprague was elected Treasurer.
The Treasurer's report was received from the Auditing
Committee and ordered to be entered on the Records.
On the motion of Professor Rogers it was voted, " That the
thanks of the Academy be presented to Mr. John C. Lee, for
the care and fidelity with which he has discharged the duties
of Treasurer of the Academy."
The President called the attention of the Academy to the
recent decease of Hon. Levi Lincoln and Dr. George R. Noyes
of the Resident Fellows.
Nominations for election into the Academy were read.
The Corresponding Secretary read a portion of the follow-
ing Report of the Council upon the changes which had oc-
curred in the Academy during the past year, and the reading
of the remainder was postponed to an adjourned meeting to
be held on the fourth Tuesday in June.
During the year just elapsed, death has removed from the ranks of
the Academy seventeen members, of whom four were Resident Fel-
lows, six Associate Fellows, and seven Foreign Honorary Members.
This loss, great as it is numerically, is even more memorable from the
number of distinguished names which it embraces.
Besides the Home and Associate Members whose services to science,
letters, and public affairs we shall have occasion to commemorate, our
obituary list includes the names of Faraday, Bopp, Brewster, Mitter-
maier, Boeckh, Lawrence, and Rayer of our foreign academicians, —
names which in various degrees have been familiar to the world of
science and letters for nearly half a century, and of which more than
one has been illustrated by researches of transcendent importance,
marking eras in progress and laying the foundations of new sciences.
Of the entire list of members deceased within the year, it is perhaps
worthy of note that all except three, Professor Jewett, Dr. Warren,
and Francis Peabody, had reached quite an advanced age. Two of
the number, Dr. James Jackson and President Day, had attained re-
spectively to ninety and ninety-four years ; five, viz. Brewster, Mitter-
maier, Boeckh, Lawrence, and Dewey, had reached or passed beyond
