OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JANUARY 26, 1870. 163
ner's Pass in the Sierra Nevada, Torrey. Porphyritic hills near Vir-
ginia City, Nevada, Mr. Stretch in herb. Torr. Leaves 1 to nearly
2 inches in diameter; scape commonly stout. Involucre about half an
inch, and the flowers at length three lines long. — Upon Silver Mountain
in the Sierra Nevada, at the height of 11,000 feet, Prof. Brewer col-
lected a smaller form, viz. : —
Var. minus : foliis tenuioribus involucrisque dimidio minoribus ; um-
bella parvula condensata.
§ 5. Lachnogtna. Flos basi ipsa lata cum pedicello articulatus :
perigonium extus lanatum, 6-partitum, segmentis oblongis aequali-
bus. Ovarium lana longa implexa tomentissimum ! Filamenta
basi tantum pilosa. Involucra pauca in capitulum aut in capitu-
lis paucis subcymosis congesta, nunc solitaria, brevia, 3 - 5-den-
tata. Embryo (in E. lachnogyno) sect, prascedentis. — Herbee
perennes cajspitosas, incanre, foliis in caudice multicipiti confertissi-
mis angustis, scapo nudo vel fere nullo, floribus parvis flavis.
23. E. acaule, Nutt. PI. Gamb. Pulvinato-casspitosuin, albo-tomen-
tosum ; foliis oblongis vel sublinearibus margine revolutis sessilibus ;
capitulo ex involucris 1-5 fere sessilibus intra folia suprema sessili
nunc fructifero breviter exserte pedunculato ; perigoniis extus tomen-
tulosis. — Summit of the Rocky Mountains, between Colorado and
Utah, Nuttall. Dry sandy ridge near head of Holmes's Creek, Utah?
at G,000 feet, S. Watson in C. King's Expedition. Leaves barely two
or three lines long, spreading from the sheathing bases which are im-
bricated on the branches of the caudex. Flower hardly two lines long.
24. E. lachxogtnum, Torr. in DC. & Bot. Whipp. p. 76, t. 19.
Caudicibus brevissimis in radice fusiformi confertissimis ; foliis lan-
ceolatis seu lanceolato-oblongis acutis petiolatis margine pi. m. revolutis
supra sericeis subtus cano-tomentosis ; scapo elongato nudo oligo-
cephalo ; perigoniis extus sericeo-lanatis intus flavis. — Mountains of
the southern part of Colorado and the adjacent parts of New Mexico,
Fendler, Gordon, Bigelow, Newberry. Leaves an inch long besides the
slender petiole. Scape slender, a span to near a foot high, more or less
cymosely branched at the summit, or in depauperate specimens simple,
the branches bearing a loose capitulum of a few involucres, or a solitary
involucre sessile in the fork. Flowers a line and a half long, some of
them subtended by an ovate or lanceolate firm bract as well as a pair of
filiform bractlets, as described and figured by Dr. Torrey. In the letter-
