OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JANUARY 26, 1870. 165
sime ovalibus basi srcpius sinu profundiori cordata. Eucycla ovalifolia
& E. purpurea, Nutt. PI. Gamb. p. 166. — Rocky Mountains of Colorado
through Utah to Nevada and the borders of California. Varies with
yellow flowers (E. ovalifolium, Nutt.) not rarely tinged with purple, to
rose or rose-purple (E. purpureum, Benth. in DC, &c.) ; and slender
forms with smaller flowers are var. tennius, Benth. 1. c. (E. elongatum,
Nutt. herb., changed to tenellum, and by Gambell to E. Nuttallii, PI.
Gamb. 1. e.*) A specimen from Clamet River, of Wilkes's Expedition,
has two heads. The flowers and the plant vary considerably in size.
§ 7. Capitata. Flos basi lata vel brevissime angustata (baud pro-
ducta) ipsa cum pedicello articulatus : segmenta perigonii (gla-
bra raro lanulosi) consimilia subasqualia. Involucra (pauca vel
plura) in capitulum globosum ssepius nudum sessilia: capitula soli-
taria vel pauca subumbellata scapum aphyllum vel pedunculum
scapiformem superantia. Ovarium glabrum. Embryo ubi notus
fere sect, prascedentis. Herbaa perennes, pi. m. albo-lanataa.
* Caespitoso-acaulescentes, pumilas, monocephalae ; floribus in invo-
lucris paucis 5 — 7-dentatis vix numerosis. Bracteolae parum
barbellatas.
27. E. Kingii, n. sp. Laxe albo-lanatum ; foliis in caudice multi-
cipiti confertis spathulatis obovatis nunc rotundatis (petiolo aut longo
aut brevi) ; scapo tenui ; involucris in capitulo 6-9 turbinato-campanu-
latis profundius 6 - 7-dentatis tenui-membranaceis ; perigonio glaber-
rimo luteo vel roseo-purpureo, segmentis obovato-subcuneatis omnibus
emarginatis ; filamentis fere glabris. — Summit of E. Humboldt Moun-
tains, Star Peak, and Clover Mountain, Nevada, alt. 9-11,000 feeb
Sereno Watson in Clarence King's Expedition, July - August, 1868.
Leaves exclusive of the petiole about half an inch long. Flowers a
line and a half in length. Embryo with a slender radicle, its base
ascending and accumbent on the orbicular cotyledons.
Var. laxifolium. Elatius ; caudice ramis gracilioribus ; foliis
parcioribus sublanceolatis ; floribus in sicco aureis. — Parley's Park
* Nuttall describes E. Nuttallii as having the " segments of the perianth oblong
and not very unequal" ; but in those of his own specimens which have any flowers,
as in his " E. polyceps," Mss., which he evidently put with it, the perigonium is just
that of E. purpureum. So that he should not have left it in Eriogonum when he
formed of the above his genus Eucycla. It might be supposed that Nuttall had our
next species (E. Kingii) in view, but there is no trace of it in his own herbarium,
nor among the specimens he contributed to the herbaria of Hooker, Durand, &c.
