8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
their eightieth anniversary ; and the remaining six, Loring, Smyth,
Lord, Bopp, and Faraday, had each transcended the limit of three-
score and ten years.
Of the home members whose services we desire to commemorate, we
may appropriately begin our record with a notice of the venerable as-
sociate and friend whose professional skill and wisdom we have so long
ranked among our social blessings, and whose gentle benignity wins us
even now as if he were still among us.
Dr. James Jackson, for many years an eminent physician and the
acknowledged head of the medical profession in Boston, has died during
the last year at the advanced age of nearly ninety years. He was
born in Newburyport in 1777, and was graduated at Harvard College
in 1796. He was one of the chief founders of the Massachusetts
General Hospital, and was the first and for a number of years the only
physician of this institution. His clinical lectures in the hospital
were continued for many years in connection with his other duties in
the medical school as Professor of the Theory and Practice of Medi-
cine in Harvard University. He was for seven years President of the
Massachusetts Medical Society, and on the decease of Dr. Bowditch
he was elected President of the Academy of Arts and Sciences in
1838, which office he accepted with the condition that he should retire
from it on the following year.
The intellect of Dr. Jackson was capacious, logical, exact, and un-
wavering in its loyalty to honesty and truth. His social traits were
genial, impulsive, and sanguine. Coming in his early life from the
schools of European erudition, he brought with him a deep respect for the
labor and learning, the authority and conventional prestige, of the then
accepted luminaries of medical science. His methods of practice
were in a high degree energetic and decisive. He believed, in common
with many others of that day, that most diseases were susceptible of
control, if not of removal, by the modes of artificial interference then
generally in use. These opinions and habits were greatly modified, if
not subdued, in the latter half of his long and observing life, so that
although he never lost his professional fondness for the forms and
implements of his art, and sometimes carried their use to a scrupulous
degree of exactness, yet he became more tolerant of nature, more
humble in his expectations from art, and more distrustful of reckless
interference, whenever certain harm was to be balanced against doubt-
ful good.
