198 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
nentibus cum 2 intermediis parvis vel minimis; staminibus 6, filamentis
brevissimis. — " Reservoir Hill," Placerville, California, Mr. Rattan.
An insignificant weedy plant, three or four inches high, the branches
when old fragile at the joints, as in many other species, in habit resem-
bling O. procumbens. Fruiting involucre with its broadly obpyramidal
tube a line and a half long, glabrate ; the longer and widely divergent
lobes with the pungent stout awn about the same length, or even longer;
the two intermediate and much smaller pungent-pointed teeth not arising
from any obvious costal. Tube of the perigonium cylindraceous ; the
stamens some of them opposite and some alternate with the lobes.
Achenium and seed ovate-pyramidal. Embryo as in the following.
* * Involucrum trigonum, 6-costatum, trifidum : bracteae spini-
formes.
24. C. rigid A. P)rgmpea,primum lanata; caule Q--2-pollicari) parum
ramoso demum crassiore lignescente ; foliis ovatis seu obovatis subtus
albo-tomentosis longe petiolatis ; involucris in axillis sessilibus solita-
riis vel confertis bracteis elongatis aristreformibus seu lanceolatis
spinescenti-cuspidatis demum induratis suffultis, lobis 3 inaaqualibus
ovato- seu triangulari-lanceolatis cuspide spinescente recta terminates
tubo brevi-campanulato (majore duplo) longioribus ; perigonii tubo
cylindraceo basi obtuso ; staminibus 9. Acanthogonum rigidnm, Torr.
Pacif. R. R. 4 (Bot. Whipp.), p. 132, & 5, p. 365, & Bot. Mex.
Bound, p. 177 (excl. ref. "tab. 8"). — On the desert of S. E. Califor-
nia and the neighboring parts of Arizona and New Mexico, Bigelow,
A. B. Gray, Thomas, Newberry, Cooper, Parry ; also Nevada as far
north as Truckee Valley, Watson. The older plants horrid with the
tufted bracteal spines, of which the larger are about an inch in
length. Stamens perhaps always 9. The older involucres thin and
scarious between the reticulations. Cotyledons orbicular, accumbent
on the base of the slender curved radicle.
* * * Involucrum tubo tereti angusto, costis obsoletis, dentibus 3
vel 5 cum bracteis parvulis breviter cuspidatis. Herbse exiles,
caule 1 - 3-pollicari demum subcymoso-ramoso.
2o. C. corrugata. Albido-lanata ; foliis ovatis seu ovali-rotun-
dis longe petiolatis ; involucris demum subcymosis, lobis 3 ovato-lan-
ceolatis cum bracteolis herbaceis cuspide recurva apiculatis tubo subcla-
vato eximie corrugato (fructifero fere tuberculato) sublongioribus; tubo
perigonii basi attenuato ; staminibus 6 — 9. Acanthogonum corruga*
