OF AKTS AND SCIENCES, JUNE 9, 1868. 9
Dr. Jackson continued the active practice of his profession, especially
as a consulting physician, and also attended annual meetings of societies
to which he had been attached, for some time after he had attained the
age of fourscore years. In the few last years of his life, under the
joint influence of physical and mental decadence, he retired from public
view. Yet he died remembered, honored, and regretted, leaving among
his numerous acquaintance an appreciative freshness of memory which
time had not been able to change or obscure.
Charles Greely Loring, son of Caleb and Ann (Greely)
Loring, was born in Boston on the 2d of May, 1794. His ancestors
on his father's side were among the earliest settlers of the colony of
Plymouth. Some of the prominent traits of his character indicated
his Puritan origin. From his mother, the daughter of a naval hero of
the Revolution, he inherited an ardent spirit of patriotism and love of
liberty.
His school-days were passed in Boston. Having completed his
preparation for college at the Public Latin School, where he received
a Franklin medal for industry and good scholarship, he entered the
University in advanced standing in the year 1809, and was graduated
with high honors in 1812. Immediately after leaving college, he became
a member of the Law School at Litchfield, Connecticut, which, under
the charge of Judges Reeve and Gould, was then the leading institu-
tion for legal instruction in the United States. He finished his prepar-
atory studies for the bar in the office of the Hon. Samuel Hubbai'd in
Boston, and was admitted a member of the Suffolk bar in the autumn
of 1815. From that time, for nearly forty years, Mr. Loring con-
tinued in the active and successful practice of his profession as a
lawyer and advocate, rising to be one of the acknowledged leaders of
the bar, until in the year 1854, becoming somewhat weary of the con-
flicts of the forum and of the constant and pressing cares and labors
necessarily attendant on faithful service and devotion to the interests
of his clients, which had in some degree impaired a constitution never
very robust, he accepted the office of Actuary of the " Massachusetts
Hospital Life Insurance Company." He continued in the discharge of
the duties of this important trust until his death, which took place at
his summer residence in Beverly on the 8th of October, 1867.
By his first wife, Miss Ann Pierce Brace, of Litchfield, to whom he
was married in 1818, Mr. Loring had four children, two sons and
two daughters, who survive him.
VOL. VIII. 2
