216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
those of 60° made by alternate faces, and those of 90° made by the
faces and ends of the prisms. The inner halo is caused by refraction
through an angle of 60°, the refracting edges being parallel to the tan-
gents to different parts of the halo. The outer halo is caused by refrac-
tion through an angle of 90°, the refracting edges of different prisms
being parallel to different tangents. Both halos require that the prisms
should be scattered at random, so that a sufficient number would be found
in the required positions. The white parhelion circle is produced by
reflection from the sides of the prisms when their ax;es are vertical.
These same prisms, acting through the angle of 60°, would produce the
mock suns whenever they stood in the position of minimum deviation ;
while others, not in the position of minimum deviation, would produce
the colored appendages to the mock suns. These same prisms, acting
through the angle of 90°, would cause the tangent curve to the larger
halo of 46°. If the luminary were above the horizon, reflection from
the upper end of these prisms would produce an uncolored image of the
luminary underneath the real luminary ; but this image would not be
visible unless the observer were elevated to a great height above the
surface of the earth. If the luminary were a little below the horizon,
reflection from the lower end of these prisms would produce a similar
image above the luminary, and above the horizon, which would be visi-
ble ; and hence the luminary might appear to have risen again after set-
ting. When the axes of the prisms are horizontal, refraction by the
angle of 60° would cause the tangent curve to the inner halo of 22°.
If large numbers of prisms were floating contemporaneously in all three
positions, all these phenomena might coexist ; otherwise, only a portion
of these various features would be displayed. It is evident, therefore,
that both halos might be wanting, and yet one or both of the curves
which are tangent to them might appear. If the tangent curve to the
larger halo of 46° is seen, generally the mock suns and the parhelion
circle are also seen, even in the absence of the halo itself. In other
words, all which vertical prisms are capable of producing would gen-
erally, though not necessarily, be seen at the same time.
These general features are somewhat changed by the altitude of the
sun, or other luminary, above the horizon. When the sun is in the hori-
zon, the parhelia are at the same distance from it as the inner halo, and
rest upon it. As the sun rises they go outside of the halo, and become
impossible when the altitude of the sun exceeds 60° 45'. The lengths
of the tails affixed to the mock suns increase as the sun rises, until the
