OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 10, 1870. 217
f
limiting angle of transmission is reached. There is an interior as well
as a superior tangent arc to the halo of 22°. Their figures are complex,
and they join in a single curve, circumscribing the halo itself, when the
altitude of the sun exceeds 29° 15'. The inferior arc is rarely visible,
unless the sun is more than 22° high. The halo of 46° is less bright
than that of 22°, because it is larger and broader; and more light is
reflected by the prisms under the larger incidences. The tangent curve
to this halo is a circular arc having the zenith for its centre. It cannot
be formed if the sun's altitude exceed 32° 12'. The semi-amplitude
increases from 57° 48' to 90°. But when it is 90°, its height is also 90°
and its radius is reduced to zero. The maximum brightness is in the
middle of the whole arc. This arc actually touches the halo of 46° only
when the altitude of the sun is 22° 8'. It sensibly touches between the
altitudes of 15° and 28°. If the sun were in the horizon, the tangent
arc would be 12° 4' above the summit of the halo. If the sun were 30°
high, the tangent arc would be 3° 39' above the halo. The altitude of
22° 8' is most favorable, because, in this case, the middle of the arc is
formed by rays which have suffered a minimum deviation. A tan-
gent arc to the lowermost point of this halo is not impossible, but rare.
In this event, the light must enter a vertical face and emerge at the base.
The limits of altitude are complementary to those which the superior
tangent requires ; that is, the sun's altitude must be between 57° 48'
and 90°, the arc actually touching the halo at the special altitude of 67°
52'. If the axes of the prisms are shifted from a vertical to a horizon-
tal position, the inferior and superior tangent arcs are changed to what
are called infra-lateral and supra-lateral.
I have taken renewed interest in this theory of halos, which has been
admirably developed by Bravais,* on account of the halo seen at Cam-
bridge, January 6, 1870. This halo was seen about two o'clock, when the
altitude of the sun was not far from 25°. The principal feature of the
phenomenon, on that occasion, was the tangent curve to the halo of 46°,
though the halo itself was not visible. At Waltham, the mock suns were
seen, but not the tangent curve. The tangent curve seemed to be a com-
plete circle, and the colors were very vivid, the red being the outermost
color, or nearest to the sun. I have stated that, theoretically, the maxi-
mum amplitude of this curve is 180°, and, if the sun had an altitude of
25°, the amplitude would be only about 138°. The history of halos fur-
* Journ. de l'^cole Poly technique. Cahier 31. Tome xviii.
VOL. VIII. 28
