21» PKOCEEDINQS OF TIJE AMERICAN ACADEMY
nislies but few examples of this extraordinary occurrence, — a complete
circumzenithal circle. On the 24th of January, 1838. Lambert* saw at
Wetzler a circle, nearly complete, centred about the zenith, with vivid
prismatic colors. On the 11th of July, 1749, Anderonf witnessed at
Norwich, about five o'clock, p. M., when the sun was nearly 25° high, a
white circle around the zenith. Bravais resorts to two expedients for
explaining the enlargement of the circumzenithal arc into a complete
circle, in a few rare cases. In the first place, the light may strike the
vertical side of the prism too obliquely to be transmitted, so that, after
being once or twice reflected upon other vertical sides, it may emerge
from sides opposite to the usual ones. In the second place, each point
of the arc, originally produced, causes a parhelion circle, all of which are
superimposed upon the arc itself, as far as it extends. This last opera-
tion, however, would produce light without any discoloration. In the
halo seen at Cambridge, the centre of the circle was decidedly south of
the zenith. This fact requires us to suppose that the parallel axes of
the prisms were not exactly vertical. A current in the atmosphere
mi^ht change the direction of the descending particles of ice, but could
the lateral motion, with the air, and not in it, develop any new resist-
ance which would direct their axes away from the zenith ?
I will now exhibit an experiment with an equilateral triangular prism
of glass, and also a hollow one filled with water. The axis is vertical,
about which it is made to revolve rapidly by clock-work. With a single
prism and sunlight, or any bright and circular artificial light, all those
features of the halo may be artificially produced which have been re-
ferred to the action of many prisms of ice, with vertical axes : the
single prism, in its motion, assuming, in rapid succession, all the possible
positions of these many prisms in the atmosphere. The halos them-
selves can be produced artificially, either by a conical prism, or by arti-
ficial crystals formed .upon a plate of glass, as shown by Brewster I and
others. §
The sun and moon are sometimes encircled by what are called coro-
na?. A corona may be distinguished from a halo in many ways. 1. It
is much smaller even than the smallest of the two halos. 2. It is not
rigidly bound to almost invariable dimensions, as the halo is. 3. When
* Pogg. Ann. Physik und Chemie, xlvi. p. 660.
t Phil. Trans, xlvi. p. 203.
} A Treatise on Optics. Amer. edit. 1835, pp. 232, 233.
<> Amer. Journ. xvi. 398.
