10 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
This short and simple narrative comprises all the leading events in
the life of our deceased associate, — so true is it, that a faithful and
exclusive devotion of time and talent to practice at the bar in this
country, while it is pretty sure to win great professional success, is
quite consistent with a quiet and uneventful life. It does not neces-
sarily lead, as in England, to wide-spread distinction. A lawyer, who
resolutely eschews active participation in politics and refuses to hold
official stations, rarely reaches an extended public fame. Nevertheless,
the qualities of mind and character which are requisite to forensic skill,
and to the attainment of a high position as a lawyer and advocate, are
in many respects the same as, and in none inferior to, those which dis-
tinguish the successful politician and statesman, although they are exer-
cised and displayed on a more narrow and less public arena. Intel-
lectual capacity, trained and disciplined, so that it may at all times
be ready for vigorous and efficient action, legal learning and wide
general culture, courage, good temper and knowledge of mankind, are
essential characteristics, without which the conflicts of the forum can-
not be successfully carried on, or its triumphs surely won. All these
qualities Mr. Loring possessed in an eminent degree. Endowed with
good natural powers, he had cultivated them by long and assiduous
study. His learning in all branches of the profession was affluent. He
was especially distinguished for his thorough knowledge of the rules
and principles of the commercial code. These he illustrated and ap-
plied to new cases with singular force, felicity, and success. The re-
ports of cases argued and adjudged in the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts and in the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
first circuit during the thirty years from 1825 to 1855, furnish ample
evidence of the fulness and extent of his learning, and of the impor-
tant part he bore in laying the foundations and giving shape and sym-
metry to that branch of American jurisprudence which embraces the
rights and duties of parties under mercantile and maritime contracts
and transactions.
It was not solely as a sound and learned lawyer that Mr. Loring was
distinguished at the bar. He was also an eloquent and persuasive
advocate. His eloquence and power of persuasion did not consist
merely in a strict observance of the rules of rhetoric, or in well-
rounded periods, or special beauty of diction. He was master of a
higher and more effective order of advocacy. Strictly conscientious,
and governed in the performance of his professional duty by a rigid
