OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 10, 1870. 219
it is bright enough for the colors to be distinguished, the red is outside
and the blue inside. 4. This arrangement of the colors, as well as the
dimension of the circle, indicate that a corona is not produced by refrac-
tion or reflection in crystals of ice, but by interference. The following
experiments which I shall now exhibit to the members of the Academy,
will illustrate this subject. When light is sent through the intervals be-
tween straight and parallel lines, which have been nicely ruled upon
glass, a series of colored fringes, parallel to the lines, results from the
interference between rays which pass through different openings. If
the glass were ruled with concentric circular lines, close together, these
colored bands would become circular, and surround the source of light.
By a rapid rotation of the ruled lines in theirown plane, subjective rings
result from the parallel fringes. In order to produce the required rota-
tion without a material axis, which would intercept the rays of light from
the eye of the observer, a platform is turned rapidly by clock-work. The
border of this platform is covered with cloth. The circular frame in
which the graduated glass is set rests upon this cloth, with its plane at
right angles to the platform, and is rotated by friction. Friction-rollers
at the sides and top hold it in its place, in the absence of any material
axis of rotation. If concentric black circles are accurately drawn upon
paper, and then photographed upon glass, on a greatly reduced scale,
the photographed plate might be substituted for that on which circular
lines had been scratched. Again, if a plate of glass is covered with
india-ink, and then concentric circles are scratched upon the black sur-
face, leaving the intermediate black rings, the same optical experiment
can be performed. All three of these methods have been tried, but the
finest and neatest circles were obtained by the last method ; and the ex-
perimental result is very beautiful, especially if the ruled glass is placed
immediately in front of the object-glass of an opera-glass.
Although artificial coronae of great beauty can be produced in these
ways, it is obvious that the coronae of nature must have a much simpler
origin. And theory shows, that if lycopodium powder, the particles of
which are small and spherical, and of uniform size, is sprinkled upon
glass, a luminous spot, seen through the glass, will be surrounded with
several coronae, which, if less bright than those produced by the con-
centric rulings, on that very account have a greater resemblance to those
known in Meteorology. It appears that, in this indiscriminate sprink-
ling, myriads of minute openings are left everywhere on the plate,
enough being found in the required places for producing the colored
