224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Edward S. Morse, of Salem, to be a Resident Fellow in Class II.,
Section 3.
Thomas W. Parsons, of Boston, to be a Resident Fellow in Class
III., Section 4.
James M. Barnard, of Boston, to be a Resident Fellow in Class II.,
Section 3.
Henry L. Whiting, of Boston, to be a Resident Fellow in Class I.,
Section 2.
Nathaniel S. Shaler, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in Class
II., Section 1.
During the same period, the Academy has lost five members by
death, viz.: —
Two Resident Fellows, one Associate Fellow, and two Foreign
Honorary Members.
Thomas Sherwin was born in Westmoreland, New Hampshire,
March 26, 1799. His parents in a few years removed to New
Ipswich in the same State, and soon afterwards to the adjoining town
of Temple. At the age of eight, soon after the death of his mother,
Thomas went to live with a relative, Dr. Crombie, of Temple, and re-
mained with him six years. In 1813 he spent a short time in Ipswich
Academy ; but his father having met with misfortunes, he was com-
pelled to leave school, and, in September of the same year, he was ap-
prenticed at Groton, Massachusetts, to learn the trade of a clothier, —
a trade which at that time appears to have consisted mainly in taking
cloth as it came from the domestic looms, and fulling, dyeing, and
dressing it for the market. Here he remained eight years, working
diligently at his trade, and winning the esteem and confidence of his
employers. He was able to attend the district school two months in
the year ; but his natural love of learning often led him to devote one
or two hours to study after working at the mill until ten o'clock at
night.
His desire to obtain a college education had now become so strong
that he left his trade, and, after teaching a district school in Harvard
for a short time, began his preparation for college at the academy in
Groton in April, 1820. He completed it at the New Ipswich Acad-
emy, and entered Harvard College in 1821. Here, notwithstanding his
imperfect preparation, he soon placed himself among the foremost
scholars, particularly in mathematics, and graduated with honor in
