OP ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 24, 1870. 225
1825. For a year he had charge of the academy at Lexington, and
was then appointed tutor in mathematics in the College. In 1827 he
commenced civil engineering with Loammi Baldwin, and, in the same
year, under James Hayward, was employed on the preliminary survey
of the Boston and Providence Railroad. Relinquishing this business
on account of a severe illness, he in 1828 opened a private school for
boys, in Boston, and the next year was elected sub-master of the Eng-
lish High School. In 1837 he was elected master of the school, and
continued to hold the position to the time of his death.
As master of the English High School, Mr. Sherwin gained his
highest distinction. The best work of his life was here. He inspired
his pupils with his own love of thoroughness, and taught them, not
more by precept than by example, to think for themselves, and to, aim
at a noble manhood. Under his charge the school ranked among the
best in the country. Indeed, Mr. Fraser, in his report to the British
Parliament on the schools of this country, says : " The English High
School struck me as the model school of the United States."
In all educational matters Mr. Sherwin took an active interest. He
aided in the establishment of the American Institute of Instruction
and of the Massachusetts State Teachers' Association, and became
President of each of these bodies. He was also one of the founders
of the Massachusetts Teacher, and for several years had charge of its
mathematical department. He shared in the organization of the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology, and, as a member of its govern-
ment, was one of its most active and earnest promoters.
Mr. Sherwin wrote various addresses and lectures on educational
subjects, and contributed several papers to the Mathematical Monthly.
In connection with Mr. S. P. Miles, he published a collection of Math-
ematical Tables. He was the author, also, of two works on Algebra, —
an " Elementary Treatise on Algebra," and a " Common School Al-
gebra," — both of which have long held a high place in our schools.
Mr. Sherwin was elected a Fellow of this Academy in 1836. In
1868 he was elected a member of the New England Historic-Genea-
logical Society.
Mr. Sherwin died, very suddenly, July 23, 1869. On that day,
not feeling quite well, he consulted a p'hysician, walked home in a
cheerful mood, and, after some conversation with his family and a
walk in his garden, went to his room, took a book, and in a moment
departed. In all the relations of life Mr. Sherwin sustained a hi°-h
vol. viii. 29
