226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
reputation. In boyhood diligent and faithful, in youth persevering in
his efforts to secure a liberal education, as a teacher attaining rare
success by conscientious devotion to the best interests of his pupils,
patriotic when his country was in danger, zealous in promoting the
cause of sound education, and full of kindly affection towards all, he
has left a memory that will be long and lovingly cherished.
Nathaniel Langdon Frothinghau was born in Boston, July
23, 1793. He was graduated at Harvard University in 1811. He
pursued the study of theology at Cambridge, under the direction of
Dr. Ware, Senior, and from 1812 to 1815 inclusive officiated in the
College as instructor in Rhetoric and Oratory. In 1815 he was
ordained pastor of the First Church in Boston. In 1818 he married
Ann Gorham, daughter of Peter C. Brooks. In 1836 he received the
degree of S. T. D. from Harvard University. In 1850 he resigned his
parochial charge, retaining the undivided respect and affection of his
people, and continuing, until disabled by bodily infirmity, to take an
active and efficient interest in the prosperity of the parish, and in the
labors and services of his successor in its ministry. His life, during
his retirement, was devoted mainly to literary pursuits, hardly impeded
by the gradual failure of sight, which terminated in total blindness.
Other eyes replaced his own for several years, and his mind retained
its clearness, vigor, and fruitfulness for many months after his vision
was closed upon the outward world. For the last two or three years,
however, disease and infirmity have incapacitated him both for labor
and for enjoyment, and life was becoming a weariness and a burden,
when it was mercifully closed on the 4th of April, 1870.
Dr. Frothingham's distinction lay in the purity, keenness, delicacy,
and high culture of the assthetic nature. In other respects the peer of
able and accomplished men, in this he could have had, if here and
there an equal, no superior. Taste was in him genius, wisdom, and
power. It imparted a new and rare beauty, even to trite thoughts; it
crystallized his scholarship in the most graceful forms ; it gave law to
his most indifferent words and acts.
He was a scholar by inclination and by lifelong habit. He was well
versed equally in classical and in modern literature. He became famil-
iar with the German language at a very early period, and was well
read in German theology, while intimately conversant with the poetry
and imaginative literature to which that language is the key. By no
means narrowly utilitarian, he loved all knowledge for its own sake,
