OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 24, 1870. 227
without reference to its availableness for immediate service ; and he
thus became possessed of much of that rare and recondite erudition
which enriches and fertilizes the mind, though it may contribute but
little to one's professional ability or fame.
As a preacher, Dr. Frothingham held a high and somewhat unique
position. His sermons were most appreciated by minds of the largest
culture, and yet in thought and in diction they were not above the
comprehension of any person of moderate intelligence. Here his ex-
quisite taste gave at once law, scope, and limit. Quaint, but never
irreverent; elegant in style, yet without lapsing into euphuism ; never
forgetting the solemnity of time, place, and purpose, yet instinctively
shunning the mere commonplaces of devout thought; solicitous always
to instruct and impress his hearers, and ready to avail himself, for this
end, of as wide a diversity of topics, illustrations, and allusions, as was
consistent with the sacredness of the occasion, — he wrote few sermons
that were not listened to with vivid interest, and held in enduring re-
membrance. Yet his sermons by no means indicated his full capacity
of grappling with the highest and the greatest subjects. He seemed
unwilling to write anything that was not whole and complete in itself;
and there are many topics on which it is impossible to write a perfectly
rounded and finished treatise that can be read in half an hour. He
essayed no subject which could not be thus compressed naturally and
gracefully. His range therefore, as a preacher, was broad, rather than
high or deep ; but within that range few ministers have been so uni-
formly apt, rich, and edifying. He was peculiarly felicitous, not only
in his treatment of special occasions for pulpit utterance, but in creating
such occasions ; so that whatever had worthily claimed the attention or
interest of his hearers during the week was not unlikely on Sunday to
be presented in its religious aspects and lessons.
As a poet, Dr. Frothingham won indeed a high reputation, but a
fame far below his merit. As he wrote no long poem, and published
no collection of his poetry till very late in life, the public, and even his
friends, awoke but slowly and tardily to the recognition of his genius
in this department. But as from time to time a hymn or a metrical
composition, in conception a gem of pure radiance in a setting of
wonderful beauty, appeared under his signature, in the programme of
a religious or civic festival, or in the pages of a monthly or quarterly,
it was felt more and more that he was indeed a poet by divine ri^ht
and gift ; and there are some of his lyrics that can hardly fail to per-
