228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
petuate his name, when all other memorials of him shall have passed
away. Here, too, we mark not onlj " the vision and the faculty-
divine," but equally the unerring taste, incapable of an incongruous
image, a mixed metaphor, an unapt epithet, a halting rhythm, or a
forced rhyme. He professed to translate a great many German
poems ; but he made them all his own. He is, indeed, in these versions,
true to the original ; but he transposes rather than translates it, seeking
not so much for synonymous words and phrases, as for equivalent
force and beauty of expression.
In character Dr. Frothingham was worthy of his sacred profession,
of the affection with which he was regarded by all who knew him
well, and of the general reverence which followed him to his retire-
ment and to his grave. In manners and conversation his strongly
marked individuality was so held in check, alike by good taste and by
benevolence, as to be piquant indeed, but never otherwise than genial
and attractive. He had many warm friends, perhaps few intimates.
Generous, hospitable, kind, tenderly thoughtful for the feelings and the
rights of others, he did untold good in those quiet, unostentatious
ways in which genuine philanthropy can work without shout or song.
He was conservative both from taste and from principle ; but his con-
servatism had in it no bitterness or exclusiveness, — he only preferred
doing good in his accustomed ways, while he conceded cordially the
freedom of choice he claimed. As a pastor, he was tenderly beloved 5
and in all professional, social, and domestic relations he has left only
the most precious and blessed memories.
Dr. Frothingham's only published volumes were " Sermons in the
Order of a Twelvemonth " and two volumes of Poems. Of occasional
sermons and other pamphlets he printed many. He contributed
largely to our best periodical literature, and to every important publi-
cation of that kind issued in Boston, for considerably more than half
a century ; and his papers thus published, and because of their form
forgotten, would fill nearly half as many volumes as they covered
years.
Theodore Strong was born at South Hadley, Massachusetts, in
July, 1790, and died at New Brunswick, New Jersey, February 1, 1869.
His father was a clergyman, and there had been an unbroken line of min-
isters in the family of his mother for eleven generations. He took his
bachelor's degree at Yale in 1812, and was immediately appointed tutor
in Mathematics at Hamilton College, Clinton, New York. He was soon
