OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 24, 1870. 229
after appointed Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, and
held that chair until 1827, when he was called to the similar chair made
illustrious by the genius of Dr. Robert Adrain, at Rutgers College,
New Brunswick, New Jersey, where he continued in active duty until
1862. He married, in 1819, Lucy Dix, of Boston, who survives him,
with three of their seven children ; one son of great promise, who was
in the army, fell during the late civil war.
As a teacher Dr. Strong was remarkable for his faith in spontaneous
effort, and his utter want of faith in any sort of coercion ; he would
arouse the enthusiasm of his pupils to study subjects, not compel them
to study books. With this faith in the value of spontaneous effort, his
desire was more earnest to affect the character of the students than
merely to give them specific knowledge ; and with his firm convictions
of the truth of the Christian religion, he sought ever earnestly to
awaken religious life in his scholars, as the most effectual means of
arousing intellectual life.
All his convictions, whether in religion, philosophy, or politics, were
very strong, held with extreme tenacity, and, if attacked, defended with
courteous but earnest warmth. It was said that he never failed, in the
College Faculties with which he was connected, to bring the majority
to his views. His conclusions were never hasty ; he was a patient
thinker and careful reader, and took especial pleasure in the writings of
the deeper English theologians. His firmness of conviction gave pleas-
ure even to those who differed from him ; no man could resist the
attraction of his frank, honorable self-poise ; and it was good also to
look upon a man of such robust health, maintained by habits of great
activity and cheerful self-control.
His mathematical powers lay rather in the direction of geometry
than in analysis, yet his analytical power was also great. He was too
far advanced in years, at the time when the modern rapid developments
began, to be much affected by them, but has himself taken important
steps.
The following is an imperfect list of Dr. Strong's mathematical
writings : —
1. Twenty-two communications in Gill's Mathematical Miscellany.
2. Seven communications in the Cambridge Miscellany.
3. Twenty-two papers in the American Journal of Science, viz. : —
On Trigonometric and Diophantine Problems, Vols. I. and
XXXI.
