230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Problems with Geometrical Construction, Vol. II.
On the Binomial Theorem, Vol. XII.
On Central Forces, Vols. XVI., XVII., XIX, XXL, XXII.
Capillary Attraction, Vol. XVIII.
On the Motion of a System of Bodies, Vols. XXIV, XXV.,
XXVI.
Parallelogram of Forces, Vols. XXVI., XXIX.
Composition and Resolution of Forces, Vol. XXVIII.
Variation of Constants in Elliptic Motion, Vol. XXX.
Virtual Velocities, Vols. XLII., XLIII.
Differential Equations, Vol. XLII.
Differential Calculus, and Taylor's Theorem, Vol. XLV.
Exponential and Logarithmic Theorems, Vol. XLVIII.
4. A Paper in Runkle's Mathematical Monthly for April, 1860, on
the Extraction of Roots, and one in June, 1861, on the Equilibrium of the
Lever.
5. A Treatise on Elementary and Higher Algebra, New York,
1859.
6. A Treatise (in MSS.) on the Differential and Integral Calculus.
It would be difficult to find in the history of science a character more
simple, more noble, or more symmetrical in all its parts than that of
Thomas Graham, and he will always be remembered as one of the
most eminent of those great students of nature, who have rendered our
Saxon race illustrious. He was born of Scotch parents in Glasgow in
the year 1805, and in that city, where he received his education, all
his early life was passed. In 1837 he went to London as Professor
of Chemistry in the newly established London University now called
University College, and he occupied this chair until the year 1855,
when he succeeded Sir John Herschel as Master of the Royal Mint, a
post which he held to the close of his life. His death, on the 16th of
September last, at the age of sixty, was caused by no active disease,
but was simply the wearing out of a constitution enfeebled in youth by
privations voluntarily and courageously encountered that he might de-
vote his life to scientific study. As with all earnest students, that life
was uneventful, if judged by ordinary standards; and the records of his
discoveries form the only materials for his biography. Although one
of the most successful investigators of Physical Science, the late Master
of the Mint had not that felicity of language or that copiousness of
illustration, which added so much to the popular reputation of his dis-
