OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 13
he espoused the cause of the Union and the Constitution in the late civil
war. Although then approaching to the allotted age of man, his ardor,
energy, and zeal in the cause of his country, showed that patriotism
and love of liberty had not abated one jot or tittle of their original
vigor and fire within his breast. With true civic courage, in the ear-
lier days of Southern aggression, when resistance to the demands and
the power of slavery was not calculated to enlist popular favor, he had
stood forth as an earnest opponent of measures designed to abridge
the constitutional rights of the North, and to consolidate the power
of the national government in support and defence of slavery. By
speech and pen he resisted the annexation of Texas, the invasion of
Kansas, and the enforcement of the laws for the surrender of fugitive
slaves. "When the aggressive acts of the South culminated in treason,
he did not hesitate to accept the issue. Abhorrent to his kindly nature
as were the horrors of a civil war, he felt that they were to be
encountered fearlessly rather than to submit to a sacrifice of the rights
which constitutional liberty had secured to the people of the whole
country. From the breaking out of the war to its close, he was un-
tiring in his efforts, both public and private, to aid the cause of the
nation. Especially by his writings in 1862, on the subject of the re-
lations of England and the United States growing out of the civil war ;
in 1863, on the rights and duties of belligerents and neutrals with
special reference to the course pursued by England towards the United
States; and in 1865, in his views on reconstruction, — he contributed
largely to a correct understanding of the topics on which he treated,
and afforded striking proof of his ability to discuss grave questions of
international and constitutional law with originality, learning, and
vigor.
It was Mr. Loring's supreme satisfaction to live to see the war
ended, slavery abolished, peace restored, and the reconstruction of the
Union in a fair way of being accomplished. It was also his grateful
privilege to obey the call of his Alma Mater in the summer of 1865, and
to preside over the commemorative festival of her sons in honor of
those who had given their lives as a sacrifice for their country, and to
welcome back those who had returned after brave and successful service
in the field. The grace and dignity and tenderness with which this
duty was performed by him will long live in the memory of those
whose privilege it was to participate in the interesting services of that
occasion.
