OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 24, 1870. 233
have completely revolutionized the philosophy of Chemistry. In the
first place it has appeared that a host of chemical as well as of physi-
cal facts are co-ordinated by the assumption that all substances in the
state of gas have the same molecular volume, or, in other words, con-
tain the same number of molecules in a given space ; und in the second
place, it has become evident that the phenomena of heat are simply
the manifestations of molecular motion. According to this view, the
temperature of a body is the vis viva of its molecules ; and since all
molecules at a given temperature have the same vis viva, it follows
that the molecules must move with velocities which are inversely pro-
portional to the square roots of the molecular weights. Moreover,
since the molecular volumes are equal, and the molecular weights
therefore proportional to the densities of the aeriform bodies in which
the molecules are the active units, it also follows that the velocities of
the molecules in any two gases ai'e inversely proportional to the square
roots of their respective densities. Thus the simple numerical rela-
tions first observed in the phenomena of diffusion are the direct result
of molecular motion, and it is now seen that Graham's empirical law
is included under the fundamental laws of motion. Thus Graham's
investigation has become the basis of the new science of molecular
mechanics, and his measurements of the jates of diffusion prove to
be the measures of molecular velocities.
From the study of diffusion Graham passed by a natural transi-
tion to the investigation of a class of phenomena which, although
closely allied to the first, as to the effects produced, differ wholly
in their essential nature. Here also he followed in the footsteps of
Dalton. This distinguished chemist had noticed that a bubble of air
separated by a film of water from an atmosphere of carbonic an-
hydride gradually expanded until it burst. In like manner a moist
bladder, half filled with air and tied, if suspended in an atmosphere
of the same material, becomes in time greatly distended by the in-
sinuation of this gas through its substance. This effect cannot be the
result of simple diffusion, for it is to be remembered that the thin-
nest film of water, or of any liquid, is absolutely impermeable to a gas
as such, and, moreover, only the carbonic anhydride passes through
the film, very little or none of the air escaping outward. The re-
sult depends, first, upon the solution of the carbonic anhydride by the
water on one surface of the film ; secondly, on the evaporation into the
air, from the other surface, of the gas thus absorbed. Similar ex-
VOL. VIII. 30
