234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
periments were made by Drs. Mitchell and Faust, and others, in which
gases passed through a film of india-rubber, entering into a partial
combination with the material on one surface, and escaping from it on
the other.
Graham not only considerably extended our knowledge of this class
of phenomena, but also gave us a satisfactory explanation of the mode
in which these remarkable results are produced. He recognized in
these cases the action of a feeble chemical force, insufficient to pro-
duce a definite compound, but still capable of determining a more or
less perfect union, as in the case of simple solution. He also dis-
tinguished the influence of mass in causing the formation or decomposi-
tion of such weak chemical compounds. The conditions of the phenom-
ena under consideration are simply these : —
First. A material for the septum capable of forming a feeble chem-
ical union with the gas to be transferred.
Secondly. An excess of the gas on one side of the film and a
deficiency on the other.
Thirdly. Such a temperature that the unstable compound may
orm at the surface, where the aeriform constituent is present in large
mass, while it decomposes at the opposite surface, where the quantity
is less abundant.
One of the most remai-kable results of Graham's study of this pecu-
liar mode of transfer of aeriform matter through the very substance of
solid bodies was an ingenious method of separating the oxygen from
the atmosphere. The apparatus consisted simply of a bag of india-
rubber kept distended by an interior framework, while it was exhausted
by a Sprengel pump. Under these circumstances the selective affinity
of the caoutchouc determines such a difference in the rate of transfer
of the two constituents of the atmosphere that the amount of oxygen
in the transpired air rises to forty per cent, and by repeating the
process nearly pure oxygen may be obtained. It was at first hoped
that this method might find a valuable application in the arts, but in
this Graham was disappointed ; for the same result has since been
effected by purely chemical methods, which are both cheaper and more
rapid.
These experiments on india-rubber naturally led to the study of
similar effects produced with metallic septa, which, although to some
extent previously observed in passing gases through heated metallic
tubes, had been only imperfectly understood. Thus, when a stream ot
