OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 24, 1870. 235
hydrogen or carbonic oxide is passed through a red-hot iron tube, a no
inconsiderable portion of the gas escapes through the walls. The same
is true to a still greater degree when hydrogen is passed through a red-
hot tube of platinum, and Graham showed that through the walls of a
tube of palladium hydrogen gas passes, under the same conditions, al-
most as rapidly as water through a sieve. Moreover, our distinguished
Associate proved that this rapid transfer of gas through these dense
metallic septa was due, as in the case of the india-rubber, to an actual
chemical combination of its material with the metal, formed at the sur-
face, where the gas is in excess, and as rapidly decomposed on the op-
posite face of the septum. He not only recognized as belonging to this
class of phenomena the very great absorption of hydrogen by platinum
plate and sponge in the familiar experiment of the Doebereiner lamp,
but also showed that this gas is a definite constituent of meteoric iron, —
a fact of great interest from its bearing on the meteoric theory.
We are thus led to Graham's last important discovery, which was the
justification of the theory we have been considering, and the crown-
ing of this long line of investigation. As may be anticipated from what
has been said, the most marked example of that order of chemical com-
pounds, to which the metallic transpiration of aeriform matter we have
been considering is due, is the compound of palladium with hydrogen.
Graham showed that when a plate of this metal is made the negative
pole in the electrolysis of water, it absorbs nearly one thousand times
its volume of hydrogen gas, — a quantity approximative^ equivalent to
one atom of hydrogen to each atom of palladium. He further showed
that the metal thus becomes so profoundly altered as to indicate that the
product of this union is a definite compound. Not only is the volume
of the metal increased, but its tenacity and conducting power for elec-
tricity are diminished, and it acquires a slight susceptibility to magnet-
ism, which the pure metal does not possess. The chemical qualities
of this product are also remarkable. It precipitates mercury from a
solution of its chloride, and in general acts as a strong reducing agent.
Exposed to the action of chlorine, bromine, or iodine, the hydrogen leaves
the palladium and enters into direct union with these elements. More-
over, although the compound is readily decomposed by heat, the gas can-
not be expelled from the metal by simple mechanical means.
These facts recall the similar relations frequently observed between
the qualities of an alloy and those of the constituent metals, and suggest
the inference made by Graham, that palladium charged with hydrogen
