OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 24, 1870. 237
He also swept away the arbitrary distinctions made by previous experi-
menters, showed that this wbole class of phenomena are essentially
similar, and called this manifestation of power simply " osmose."
While studying osmotic action, Graham was led to one of his
most important generalizations, — the recognition of the crystalline
and amorphous states as fundamental distinctions in chemistry.
Bodies in the first state he called crystalloids ; those in the last
state, colloids (resembling glue). That there is a difference in struct-
ure between crystalloids, like sugar or felspar, and colloids, like
barley candy or glass, has of course always been evident to the most
superficial observer ; but Graham was the first to recognize in these
external differences two fundamentally distinct conditions of matter not
peculiar to certain substances, but underlying all chemical differences,
and appearing to a greater or less degree in every substance. He
showed that the power of diffusion through liquids depends very much
on these fundamental differences of condition, — sugar, one of the least
diffusible of the crystalloids, diffusing fourteen times more rapidly than
caromel, the corresponding colloid. He also showed that, in accord-
ance with the general chemical rule, while colloids readily combine
with crystalloids, bodies in the same condition manifest little or no
tendency to chemical union. Hence in osmose, where the membranes
employed are invariably colloidal, the osmotic action is confined almost
entirely to crystalloids, since they alone are capable of entering into
that combination with the material of the septum on which the whole
action depends.
On the above principles Graham based a simple method of sepa-
rating crystalloids from colloids, which he calls " dialysis," and which
was a most valuable addition to the means of chemical analysis. A
shallow tray, prepared by stretching parchment paper (an insoluble
colloid) over a gutta-percha hoop, is the only apparatus required.
The solution to be " dialyzed " is poured into this tray, which is then
floated on pure water, whose volume should be eight or ten times
greater than that of the solution. Under these conditions the crystal-
loids will diffuse through the porous septum into the water, leaving the
colloids on the tray, and in the course of a few days a more or less
complete separation of the two classes of bodies will have taken place.
In this way arsenious acid and similar crystalloids may be separated
from the colloidal materials with which, in the case of poisoning, they
are usually found mixed in the animal juices or tissues.
