238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
But besides having these practical applications, the method of dialysis
in the hands of Graham yielded the most startling results, developing an
almost entirely new class of bodies as the colloidal forms of our most
familiar substances, and justifying the conclusion that the colloidal as
well as the crystalline condition is an almost universal attribute of
matter. Thus, he was able to obtain solutions in water of the colloidal
states of aluminic, feoric, chromic, stannic, metastannic, titanic, molybdic,
tungstic, and silicic hydrates, all of which gelatinize under definite
conditions like a solution of glue. The wonderful nature of these facts
can be thoroughly appreciated only by those familiar with the subject,
but all may understand the surprise with which the chemist saw such
hard, insoluble bodies as flint dissolved abundantly in water and con-
verted into soft jellies. These facts are, without doubt, the most im-
portant contributions of Dr. Graham to pure chemistry.
In this sketch of the scientific career of our late Associate, we have
followed the logical, rather than the chronological, order of events,
hoping thus to render the relations of the different parts of his work
more intelligible. It must be remembered, however, that the two lines
of investigation we have distinguished were in fact interwoven, and
that the beautiful harmony which his completed life presents was the
result, not of a preconceived plan, but of a constant devotion to truth,
and a childlike faith, which unhesitatingly pressed forward whenever
nature pointed out the way.
Although the investigations of the phenomena connected with the
molecular motion in gases and liquids were by far the most important
of Dr. Graham's labors, he also contributed to chemistry many re-
searches which cannot be included under this head. Of these, which
we may regard as his detached efforts, the most important was his
investigation of the hydrates and other salts of phosphorus. It is true
that the interpretation he gave of the results has been materially modi-
fied by the modern chemical philosophy, yet the facts which he estab-
lished form an important part of the basis on which that philosophy
rests. Indeed, it seems as if he almost anticipated the later doctrines of
types and polybasic acids, and in none of his work did he show more
discriminating observation or acute reasoning. A subsequent investi-
gation on the condition of water in several crystalline salts and in the
hydrates of sulphuric acid is equally remarkable. Lastly, Graham also
made interesting observations on the combination of alcohol with salts,
on the process of etherification, on the slow oxidation of phosphorus,
