OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 24, 1870. 239
and on the spontaneous inflammability of phosphuretted hydrogen. It
would not, however, be appropriate in this place to do more than
enumerate the subjects of these less important studies ; and we have
therefore only aimed in this sketch to give a general view of the
character of the field which this eminent student of nature chiefly
cultivated, and to show how abundant was the harvest of truth which
we owe to his faithful toil.
Graham was not a voluminous writer. His scientific papers were all
very brief, but comprehensive, and his " Elements of Chemistry " was
his only large work. This was an admirable exposition of chemical
physics, as well as of pure chemistry, and gave a more philosophical ac-
count of the theory of the galvanic battery than had previously appeared.
Our late Associate was fortunate in receiving during life a generous
recognition of the value of his labors. His membership was sought by
almost all the chief scientific societies of the world, and he enjoyed to a
high degree the confidence and esteem of his associates. Indeed, he
was singularly elevated above the petty jealousies and belittling quarrels,
which so often mar the beauty of a student's life, while the great love-
liness and kindliness of his nature closely endeared him to his friends.
He was never married, keeping house with a sister at No. 4 Gordon
Square, where he dispensed a liberal hospitality, which has been en-
joyed by many of .our scientific countrymen who have visited London
during the last twenty years.
In concluding, we must not forget to mention that most genial trait
of Graham's character, his sympathy with young men, which gave him
great influence as a teacher in the College with which he was long
associated. There are many now prominent in the scientific world
who have found in his encouragement the strongest incentive to
perseverance, and in his approval and friendship the best reward of
success.
Frederic Overbeck was born at Lubeck on the 2d of July, 1789,
and commenced his studies in art at a very early age. In 1806 he
entered the Academy of Fine Arts at Vienna. His natural tendencies,
fostered by the counsels of Eberhard Wachter, soon led him to the
exclusive study of the Pre-Raphaelite painters. This brought him
into such open opposition to the professors, whose principles were
those of the classical school of Mengs and David, that he was dis-
missed from the Academy, and in the year 1810 went to Rome,
where he found himself in a thoroughly congenial atmosphere. Six
