OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 14, 1870. 243
the later work is a development. He had reason to believe
that the omission would be supplied.
The Vice-President and Professors Parsons and Holmes
were appointed a committee to consider whether the cost of
printing Professor Lovering's memoir upon the Aurora Bo-
realis could rightly be defrayed from the Rumford Fund, and
also what disposition should be made of any proceeds which
might accrue from the republication by the Academy of Count
Ptumford's works.
It was voted to appropriate one hundred and fifty dollars to
be expended by the Library Committee, and three hundred
and fifty dollars to be expended by the Committee on Publica-
tions.
Mr. Porter C. Bliss made a communication on the Ethnol-
ogy of the Indian tribes of the southern part of South Amer-
ica.
The President read by title the following papers : —
1. Reconstruction of the Order Diapensiacecc. By Asa Gray,
The name of this group was first used by Link, for a tribe of Com
volrulacece, — which was wide of the mark. But the order was founded
by Lindley in 1836 (Introd. Nat. Syst. ed. 2). The two genera and
species of which it was constituted, however, have on the one hand
been appended to Ericaceae, as by Endlicher and Dr. Hooker, or on the
other referred to Polemoniacece, as by Don, Fries, and Alph. DeCan-
dolle. Decaisne, indeed, keeps up the order (Decaisne and LeMaout,
Triiite Gen. Bot.) ; but as he intercalates it between the Pyrolece and
Vaccinece, admitting those and kindred groups as orders, his view coin-
cides with that of Endlicher and Hooker. In the second and subse-
quent editions of the Man. Bot. N. United States, I had followed the
other course. But, after an attentive study of the Polemoniacece of the
Northern hemisphere, I can no longer recognize the relationship. The
plants in question have neither the gamophyllous calyx, nor the convo-
lute aestivation of the corolla, nor the usually three-cleft style, nor the
hypogynous disk, nor the pretty large embryo with flattened or folia-
ceous cotyledons of Polemoniacece; nor do the latter anywhere show
an approach to the stamens of Diapensia. That these points of differ-
ence from Polemoniacece are all, with one exception, points of agree-
