244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
ment with Ericacece, must be conceded, as also the similarity of habit.
But the complete absence of an hypogynous disk, and the insertion of
the stamens upon (instead of with) the corolla, are characters which
ought to weigh heavily, in the absence of all the peculiar marks of
Ericacece, — such, for instance, as the indusiate stigma, tetrahedral pol-
len, &c. Dr. Hooker, after due mention and consideration of these
points (in Kew Jour. Bot. 9, p. 372), yet finds, in his remarkable
genus Diplarche, strong evidence of a transition between Diapensia
and Loiseleuria, his genus having one set of stamens adnate high up on
a corolla which much resembles in shape that of Diapensia Lapponica.
But Diplarche exhibits the disk, the stigma, and the pollen characteris-
tic of Ericacece, and has neither the filament nor the anther of Dia-
pensia and Pyxidanthera.
There is a genus, however, which accords with these in the whole gen-
eral structure of the flower, and even in that of the filament and anther.
This is Shortia, Torr. & Gray, published, upon most imperfect charac-
ters, at the close of an article of mine in the American Journal of Science
and Arts, vol. 42, in the year 1841, two years earlier, apparently, than
the fully characterized Schizocodon of .Siebold and Zuccarini. The his-
tory of this genus, and of the identification of the almost .unknown
Alleghanian plant with that of Japan, is given in the following note,*
* "At the end of the separate herbarium of Michaux, in the museum of the
Jardin des Plantes, Paris, is preserved a specimen, ticketed, 'Hautes montagnes de
Carolinie, an Pyrola spec. ? an genus novum 1 ' The scapes bear the dehiscent
capsule, tipped with a style, and surrounded by the sepals ; the corolla and stamens
are absent. A sketch of the specimen, a leaf, and the summit of one of the scapes
were obligingly presented to me by Professor Decaisne. With more zeal than
judgment, I drew up the characters from this unique and incomplete specimen, and
in this Journal for January, 1841, in a note to an account of a botanical excursion
to the mountains of North Carolina, I published the plant under the name of
Shortia galacifolia, Torr. & Gray. Contrary to my hopes and expectations, the
plant has not yet turned up in its native haunts. The late Dr. Short, who has
since gone to his rest, deserved better commemoration at our hands than this emp-
ty name of a most obscure plant. Indeed, our botanists, applying the old law
maxim, De non apparentibus et de non existenlibus eadem est ratio, are not unreason-
ably doubting if there ever was any such plant. Some lucky botanist will proba-
bly rediscover it in the region around the Black Mountains. What I have now to
announce is, that the genus is found, and probably the very species, in a widely
distant region indeed, but just where, after all we have been learning, it was not
unnatural to expect it.
" In the vear 1843, if I mistake not (I cannot at this moment ascertain the exact
