14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
The universal sorrow occasioned by Mr. Loring's death found ex-
pression from the bar, the pulpit, the bench, and the various associa-
tions with which he had been connected. " Midtis ille flebilis occidit."
It rarely happens that the death of a private citizen is regarded as a
public loss. Such was the feeling which waited on his obsequies, and
no higher tribute could have been paid to his life and character.
Charles Coffin Jewett, the son of Rev. Paul Jewett, was born at
Lebanon, Maine, in 1816. He was graduated at Brown University in
1835. Immediately or shortly after taking his degree, he became a
member of the Theological Seminary at Andover, and completed the
course of study there, yet without entering on the active duties of the
clerical profession. While at Andover he commenced his bibliographi-
cal labors by preparing a catalogue of the excellent Library of that
institution. The rare merit of this work attracted the attention of the
few men capable of an intelligent judgment in a department of litera-
ture then much less cultivated than now, and led to the appointment
which determined his subsequent course of life. In 1842 he was
chosen Librarian of Brown University, and held the office for four
years, combining with it for most of the time that of Professor of
Modern Languages and Literature, to which he brought the prepara-
tion, not only of diligent and faithful study, but of prolonged travel
and residence on the continent of Europe. He left Providence to
accept an appointment as Assistant Librarian of the Smithsonian
Institution, of which he very soon was made Chief Librarian. Here
he distinguished himself, not only by his enterprise and skill in
endeavoring to lay the foundation of a great national library, but
equally by his polemic ability in advocating the policy by which he
hoped that the Smithsonian fund would be devoted primarily to that end.
Professor Jewett resigned this office in 1855, and his services were
immediately engaged in the initial measures for the establishment of
the Boston Public Library, of which, on the completion of its organiza-
tion in 1858, he was chosen first Superintendent. For thirteen years he
has been soul, heart, brain, and hands of this institution, systematizing
and energizing every branch of its administration, inspiring its Board
of Direction with his own zeal, and stimulating its benefactors to gen-
erous gifts by the assurance that the custody, arrangement, cataloguing
and use of the contents of the library, would be provided for with
equal wisdom and fidelity. In this charge he labored with an industry
too strenuous, and with too little regard to the hygienic laws which
