OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 14, 1870. 245
which was published in the Journal above mentioned, in the year
1867.
Finally Galax of Linnaeus, — a genus of undetermined affinity, —
as I now perceive, has its floral peculiarities and its relationship ex-
plained upon comparison with Shortia or Schizocodon. Its corolla (still
somewhat gamopetalous, as Baillon remarks in Adansonia, 1, p. 196)
is deeply parted ; and the stamens with the interposed squamula?, or
sterile series of stamens, are connate into a tube, which not a little
resembles the corolla of Diapensia, the fertile stamens occupying the
sinuses of its petaloid divisions instead of those of the corolla. The
style also is short, and there is no persistent columella in the axis of
the capsule. Galax has been referred to Pyrolacece ; but the points of
resemblance are few, and the differences many and great, in corolla,
androecium, style, seeds, &c.
If, then, these two outlying genera are truly related to Diapensia, as
I suppose them to be, the group which they compose will hardly be
referred to Ericaceae. As a distinct small order, Galax included, the
name Diapensiacece should be preferred to Galacinece. For Don's
order Galacinece, though the earlier in date, was a thoroughly hetero-
geneous assemblage.
The diagnoses of the genera here brought together are as follows : —
date, none being given in the separate issue), the late Professor Zuccarini published
a plant from the mountains of Japan under the name of Schizocodon soldanelloides ;
and Dr. Maximowiez last year added two other species, S. ilicijblius, which he
thinks too closely resembles the original species, and S. imiflorus. Of the latter, as
well as of S. soldanelloides, Dr. Maximowiez has obligingly supplied me with speci-
mens. S. unijlorus appears to differ (and perhaps too little) from the original spe-
cies chiefly in the single-flowered scape, broader bracts, broader and more numer-
ously-nerved sepals, and more slender style. Of this as of Shortia galacifolia, the
corolla and stamens are unknown. Until these parts are found, and prove to be
different, 1 may venture to assume that the two are identical !
" Dr. Maximowiez, the latest and best botanical explorer of Japan and the adja-
cent regions northward, and whose excellent specimens have been liberally supplied
to some of the principal herbaria of this country (where they are most interesting),
is sedulously engaged upon a Flora Japonica. It should be left for him to decide
which generic name should be adopted, the earlier and incomplete or the later and
complete one.
" As to the affinities of the genus, I had thought mostly of Galax, itself of un-
detected relationship. The fringed Soldanel!a-like corolla and the similar foliage
are unaccompanied by any other structural resemblances. Zuccarini simply refers
the genus to Polemoniacece ; and I will add that its nearest known relative is Dia-
pensia."
