248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
These are the best diagnostic characters to be had for the Polemoni-
aceous genera with which we have here to do. One other, Lceselia, is
not unlikely to be found along our Mexican frontier. The genera at
first sight would appear to be more obviously and strictly limited than
they actually prove to be ; and, except for certain connecting forms,
their number might be properly increased by the severance of one
polymorphous genus into several, which, for the want of a little ex-
tinction, just fail to establish their characters. These plants may also
interest the philosophical botanist in another particular, namely, in what
seems to be the indications of an incipient dimorphism, discernible in
sundry species, but in none of them, perhaps, completely carried out
into reciprocally long and short filaments and style. For instance, in
some species of Gilia, section Leptosiphon, the style is long in some
individuals and short in others, while the stamens are uniform ; on the
other hand, at least in one species of the section Ipomopsis the stamens
are exserted in some individuals and included in others, with little or
no obvious difference in the style. In view of these facts, we may sus-
pect that the two sorts of style which Professor Thurber and Profes-
sor Torrey have detected in the genus Phlox (namely, that more than
half the species have a long style, so that the stigmas are often ex-
serted, while the rest have very short ones, bearing the stigmas low
down in the tube of the corolla) are somehow of dimorphic nature.
Yet it is only in P. subulata that I have seen both long and short
styles ; and here the short-styled plant has (irrespective of this charac-
ter) been described as a distinct species (P. nivalis, P. Hentzii), and is
apt to have a pair of ovules in each cell, while the long-styled P. subu-
lata rarely shows more than one. Moreover, in the Speciosa group
this character of the style really furnishes one of the most available
specific distinctions. "Whatever view be taken of it, the case may
properly be compared with that of certain species of the generally
dimorphic genus Primula, mentioned by Mr. Scott (in Jour. Linn.
Soc. 8, p. 80), which, so far as known, are either long-styled or short-
styled without their complementary fellow. Similarly the two species
of Gilia composing the group which I have named Giliandra might
be regarded as the long-stamened form, of which the short-stamened
counterpart is unknown or non-existent. A state of things which, al-
though singular, is intelligible upon the doctrine of the gradual evolu-
tion of specific and dimorphic differences.
