OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 9, 1868. 15
should have set limits to his exhausting toils, till the 8th of January-
last, when he was suddenly stricken with apoplexy while engaged in
his duties at the Library, soon became entirely unconscious, and died at
his residence in Braintree early the next morning.
Professor Jewett, as a bibliographical scholar, and as a librarian both
learned and judicious, has left in this country no superior, few equals.
The catalogues prepared under his auspices bear ample witness to his
ability and his attainments. Few, indeed, may be able to criticise the
details of a work of this class ; but there is no man who uses a library,
whose revenue from it does not depend to a very great degree on its
catalogue. An ill-made catalogue robs a library of half its practical
worth and beneficent power. The citizens of Boston can hai'dly esti-
mate, and cannot by any possibility overestimate, the reasons they
have for holding our late associate in reverent and grateful remem-
brance. When we consider how large a part of what the Public
Library is, and of what it accomplishes, is due to him, we might not
unaptly plagiarize for him from Sir Christopher Wren's tomb in St.
Paul's, and inscribe among those alcoves, " Si quasris monumentum,
circumspice."
It is hardly necessary to say that Professor Jewett was an ac-
complished scholar, conversant with good letters, both classical and
modern ; had he not been so, he could not have been the bibli-
ographer that he was. At the same time his mental gifts and endow-
ments adorned, and were adorned by, those traits of domestic and
social excellence, abounding courtesy, kindness and generosity, and
Christian piety, which won for him the love in life, and the regret in
death, of all who knew him, and most, of those who knew him best.
Jonathan Mason Warren was born in Boston, February 5, 1811,
the son of John Collins Warren and Susan Powell Mason, his wife,
daughter of the late Hon. Jonathan Mason. His grandfather was
Dr. John Warren, the younger brother of Dr. Joseph Warren,
whose heroism and martyrdom have made the name illustrious in our
history.
At the age of nine he became a member of the Boston Latin
School, then under the late Benjamin Apthorp Gould as its instructor.
In 1827 he joined the class which had entered Harvard -College the
preceding year, but was forced to leave college after a few months on
account of his health.
Finding himself at length in a condition to return to his labors, he
