258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
In describing this remarkable species, neither Scheele nor Buckley
mentions the annual root, nor the prevailingly alternate leaves, nor
the numerous ovules ; indeed, poor Scheele gives the character " loculis
uniovulatis." Dr. Engelman has proposed to transfer this species to
Gilia ; but the number of ovules in these genera proves to be a
wholly secondary character.
2. COLLOMIA, Nutt. mutatis mutandis.
Corolla tubuloso-infundibuliformis vel hypocraterimorpha, fauce
ssepius sensim plus minus ampliata. Stamina fauci vel infra faucem
incequaliter inserta : filamenta gracilia, saspe exserta. Ovula in loculis
solitaria, pauca, vel plurima. Semina humefacta e teguraento simpliei
tubulos mucilaginosos plerumque spirilliferos creberrime protrudentia.
— Herbae annua?, raro biennes, foliis alternis imisve oppositis sa3pius
incisis nunc pinnatisectis.
Of the two characters which in the Prodromus distinguish Colhmia
from Gilia, namely, the unequally inserted stamens and the solitary
ovules, Bentham gave evident preference to the latter, as appears
from his removal of C. lieteroplnjlla to Navarretia ; yet uniovulate
species are left in Gilia. As it is now abundantly evident that none
of our Polemoniaceous genera can be made to rest upon the number
of ovules, I rely so completely upon the remaining character that I
propose to remove from Gilia to Colhmia two multiovulate species,
in which I detect a striking inequality in the insertion of the stamens,
and even to add an unpublished species having a much-dilated throat
to the corolla.
Collomia nudicaulis, Hook. & Arn., has very many ovules, and
belongs to the Leptosiphon section of Gilia, although peculiar in its
sessile anthers and entire leaves.
The " mucilage" so copiously developed on the surface of the seed
when immersed in water, and which gave name to the genus, consists
of innumerable and most delicate diaphanous tubes, which lengthen
wonderfully when wetted. The spiral thread which they contain (on
which account they were confounded with " spiral vessels," and which
uncoils as the tube softens or dissolves into jelly) is wanting in one
species, namely, C. gracilis. In this and in the several following spe-
cies, the mucilage cells are beneath a more or less evident pellicle or
epidermis, composed of fragile tabular cells, which are thrown off
when the former develop and protrude under moisture. But this pel-
licle is not obvious in the typical species.
