16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
beo-an the study of medicine in the year 1829 under the direction of
his father. This was the beginning of a life of hardly interrupted in-
dustry. Taking his medical degree in 1832, he sailed for Europe*
where he remained for three years diligently pursuing his studies. On
his return in 1835 he at once entered upon the practice of his profes-
sion, and, his father leaving Boston for Europe in 1859, the whole re-
sponsibility of a great professional business was thrown upon him at
this early period of his career.
In 1844 he revisited Europe, and again in 1854, partly with refer-
ence to his health. But he did not receive the benefit he had hoped
from this visit, and was so far from well that by the advice of Dr.
James Jackson he tried the experiment of passing a winter in Rome,
but without avail, and returned home an invalid, as it seemed at the
time, with doubtful prospects of future health. He was at length, how-
ever, so far restored as to resume practice, and in 1857 removed to his
late father's house in Park Street, devoting himself mainly from this
time to Surgery.
His health was much shaken by two successive attacks of dysentery
in the summers of 1865 and 1866. The death of his excellent brother,
Mr. James Sullivan Warren, in February, 1867, was very depressing
to him, and almost from this time his friends dated a perceptible
change in his condition. In May it was discovered that a tumor was de-
veloping itself in the abdomen. He did not, however, mention the fact,
and kept at his work until the first of July, when he went to his sum-
mer residence at Nahant. A fortnight later, threatening symptoms ap-
peared, and, after many paroxysms of pain, and gradual decline of all
the bodily powers, he died on the 19th of August.
Dr. Mason Warren was the third in the direct line of descent of a
family which has now for more than a century been identified with the
practice of Surgery and of Medicine in this town and city of Boston.
He maintained and extended the reputation which he inherited. For
twenty-one years he served as a surgeon at the Massachusetts General
Hospital, performing more operations during this long term than any
other surgeon had performed in the institution during a similar term
of duty. From the first year of his entrance on professional life to
the very verge of the mortal illness which had seized him, he was en-
gaged in a most laborious and extensive practice. His skill, his devo-
tion to his patients, his kindness, his courtesy, made him everywhere
honored and beloved.
