OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 14, 1870. 293
by the fine hoariness and the absence of all hispid or even hirsute
haii-s, and by the calyx. It is apparently more erect and bushy. The
corolla is similar but larger, and has roundish-oval lobes. No fruit
was collected, by which to learn whether it accords with Tiquiliopsis
in having two-parted cotyledons. The leaves are more like those of
C. fusca, but the rib-like veins more numerous and crowded, from four
to six pairs, and the surface in the younger specimens strongly and
beautifully plicate. This has likewise been collected in Utah or
Nevada by S. Watson, in Clarence King's expedition.
Eriogonu.m Kkllogii, n. sp. Umbellata, depressum, caudicibus
rarnisve sterilibus substoloniferis filiformibus late pulvinato-coespitosum ;
foliis rosulatis spathulatis parvis (lin. 3 -4-longis) basi angustata sessili-
bus sericeo-incanis (supra nunc glabrescentibus) ; scapo gracili tripolli-
cari medium versus verticillo e foliis 3-4 parvis instructo involucro
solitario cyathiformi G-7-lobato terminator perigoniis luteolis dtraum
albidis roseo tinctis extus glaberrimis, stipite gracili, segmentis subcon-
formibus ovalibus obovatisque intus basi cum parte inferiore filamento-
rum villosis ; cotyledonibus late ovalibus excenfricis radicula parum
longioribus. — In fir-wOods, forming tufted mats, Red Mountain, Men-
docino County, California, Dr. A. Kellogg, July 1, 1869. Involucre
silky-canescent. Perigonium two or in fruit nearly three lines long,
not including the stipitiform base of fully half a line. Except that the
perigonium is wholly glabrous exteriorly, this neat species would
stand next to E. Douglnsii : but the head and the leaves are smaller,
and the flowers fewer: the whorl on the scape usually consists of
only three bract-like leaves. The foliage is more like that of a
condensed and alpine form of E. ccespitosum.
Lastaijri^ea Chilensis, Itemy. In Proceed. Amer. Acad. 8, p.
199, where this is first recorded as a Californian plant, on the authority
of a specimen collected by J. Blake, some doubt was expressed as to
whether it was there indi<j;enou~. Since then I have been able to ascer-
tain, through the kindness of Mr. Bennett, that a specimen in Nuttall's
herbarium, now belonging to the British Museum, ticketed by Nuttall
" Ancislropliylhim Culij orm'cum, Sta. Barbara" is Lastarricca Chilensis,
but taller and coarser than any of our Chilian specimens. A slender
form of the same species was lately abundantly collected near the mouth
of the San Joachin, by Dr. Kellogg, who informs me that it is common
around San Francisco, "chiefly, if not entirely, where sheep and cattle
frequent." So that its introduction into California by cattle, which is
most probable, is not likely to have been recent.
