296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
t'ces incani ; foliis integerrimis parvulis ; floribus in axillis paucis fas-
ciculatis vel solitariis ; corolla ut videtur rosea.
The name, composed of the Greek words for hoary-white, or gray
and Mint, is suggested by the silvery canescence. The typical species
has been described as a Hedeoma by Dr. Torrey, but with a natural
misgiving, on account of the habit, the perfectly regular and equally
toothed calyx, and the villosity in the throat of the corolla. This
forms, indeed, a definite and nearly if not wholly complete ring, which
is a character thought to be of some moment in Labiatse. • I am dis-
posed to join with it a species collected by the late Dr. Gregg in North-
ern Mexico, which has a much elongated corolla in the manner of Cula-
mintha coccinea, and which would technically belong to Keithia except
for the obvious rudiments of the upper pair of stamens, and the pilose
ring, which is here close to the ba>e of the tube of the corolla. Keithia
marifolia, Schauer, in Linnaea, 20, p. 705, from the same region,
may probably be added to this genus, at least if no. 1080 of Coulter's
Mexican collection is of that species: for in Coulter's plant the rudi-
ments of the upper pair of stamens (of which in Aschenborn's plant
there is said to be "nidhnn vestigium"} are conspicuous, and even
with vestiges of the abortive anther. But no trace of the pilose ring
is found.
Poliomintiia ixcana. Ramis gracilibus cum foliis linearibus
(imisve oblongis) planis obtusis pube brevissima creberrima canescenti-
bus ; verticillastris paucifloris ; pedicellis brevissimis ; calyce breviter
tubuloso 15-nervi villosissimo ; tubo corollas parum exserto, fauce am-
pliata intus piloso-annulata. Hedeoma incana Torr. Bot. Mex. Bound,
p. 130. — New Mexico, near El Paso, &c, Parry, "Wright, Bigelow,
Palmer. — Corolla only twice the length of the calyx.
Poliomintiia loxgiflora, n. sp. Pube molli laxiori ; foliis
ovalibus vel obovatis (cum petiolo brevi lin. 4—6 longis) supra viridu-
lis subtus cano-tomenlosis subvenosis ; pedunculis in axillis solitariis
brevibus unifloris bibracteolatis ; calyce elongato (subsemipollicari)
vix striato 13-nervi ; corolla tubulosa sursum sen-nm paulloque ampli-
ata longe exserta extus piloso-pubescente, labiis brevibus, annulo
prope basim ; staminibus styloque exserlis. — Nor.thern part of Mexico
(station unknown), Dr. Gregg, 1848-1849. — Corolla an inch and a
half Ion 2.
