OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : SEPTEMBER 13, 1870. 297
Six hundred and twenty-third Sleeting.
September 13, 1870. — Monthly Meeting.
The President in the chair.
The Corresponding Secretary read letters from Messrs. New-
comb, Safford, H. J. Clark, and Merivale, acknowledging their
election by the Academy.
The President stated that when abroad he procured a com-
plete set of the Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical
Society ; after a delay of nearly a year, they had not yet come
to hand, but he still hoped to recover them. He also Called
attention to a copy of the Greek Dictionary of Professor Sopho-
cles, in which the author acknowledged his indebtedness to
the Academy in the following note : — " The greater part of
the Author's Glossary of Later and Byzantine Greek, forming
Vol. VII. (new series) of the memoirs of the American Acad-
emy, has been incorporated in the present book."
Professor Benjamin Peirce referred to the appropriation
recently made by Congress to observe the eclipse next Decem-
ber, and stated that the full number of observers had not yet
been obtained. As the English government has withdrawn
the vessel offered to the Royal Society, it becomes the more
necessary that great efforts should be made to render the
American expedition a success.
Mr. W. H. Dall referred to the expedition organized in 1865
to explore the route for the International Telegraph line be-
tween the mouth of the Amoor River and some point in the
United States territory.
To this expedition a scientific corps was attached, under the leader-
ship of the late lamented Robert Kennicott. The special problems to
be solved were those of the boundary of the water-shed of the extreme
northwest portion of the continent, and the distribution of animal life
in the same region. The result of these explorations showed that the
great Yukon River of the Hudson Bay territory was identical with the
Kivichpdk of the Russians, and debouched into Bering Sea, south of
Norton Sound ; that the Rocky Mountains, instead of being prolonged
in a nearly straight line northward to the Arctic Sea, were really bent
vol. viii. 38
