OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 17
In the midst of his busy days he found time to contribute many
papers to the medical journals, and in the last year of his life he gave
to the world the results of his large and long experience in an elabo-
rately finished volume of more than six hundred pages, filled with the
records of many most interesting, and some extraordinary, cases.
Among the papers that he published the following may be mentioned
as of special importance : —
Account of Rhinoplastic Operations performed by himself. Boston
Medical and Surgical Journal, 1840.
Taliacotian Operation (flap divided seventy-two hours after the
operation). — Successful Result. Boston Medical and Surgical Journal,
1843.
Account of a new Operation for Closure of Fissure in the Hard
Palate. New England Quarterly Journal of Medicine and Surgery,
1843.
Operation for Fissures in both Hard and Soft Palate. American
Journal of Medical Science, 1843.
Successful Ligature of both Carotids for Erectile Tumor of Face.
Ibid., 1846.
Lithotrity, with the use of Ether in these Operations. Ibid., 1849.
Fissures of the Soft and Hard Palate. From Transactions of the
American Medical Association, 1861.
On Neuralgic Affections following Injuries of Nerves. Ibid.,
1864.
Recent Progress in Surgery. Annual Address before the Massa-
chusetts Medical Society, 1864.
Surgical Observations, with Cases, 1867.
In 1844, Dr. "Warren received the degree of Master of Arts from
Harvard University, and in the same year he was elected Fellow of
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of New York. He was at a
later period honored by being chosen President of the Suffolk District
Medical Society, and of the Medical Benevolent Society.
Few men not pressed by urgent need have toiled so assiduously for
a long course of years as Dr. Warren did to the last, in spite of all
his bodily hindrances. His patients and his friends remember him
w y ith affection and gratitude, and the profession which he adorned will
long refer to him as the worthy successor Of an unchartered inheri-
tance which has outlived many royal dynasties that have been for a
while its contemporaries.
VOL. VIII. 3
