304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
tion is in visible contradiction with the remarkable theory of " waves,"
by Mr. Airy, the works of Whewell, and others ; but I will immediately
show that it would be highly important to apply the solutions given in
these works to the explanation given in my former notice. There I
particularly endeavored to explain the origin of tidal currents of great
rate, and then I said, in short, that we should have to investigate the
propagation of tidal currents in bays. Mr. Whewell, in his numerous
works, having acquainted us with the geography of the phenomena,
and shown many details, as well as many empirical laws of the tides,
avails himself also of the idea of " cotidal lines " in explaining the pecu-
liarities of the tides. As is well known, the cotidal lines are curves
drawn through the points of simultaneous high waters ; their position
on the map is associated with the idea of the propagation of tidal mo-
tion. The phenomena of tides in the ocean being fully determined by
the theory, it is evidently impossible to draw the cotidal lines across
the ocean, in the same way as the question is impossible, — "Whether
high or low water will occur at the transit of an attracting body."
It would be highly important to make use of the theory of cotidal lines
to explain the propagation of tidal currents, in which case the cotidal
lines will be the direct expression of the physical law. The cotidal
lines connecting the points, at which the greatest velocity of tidal cur-
rents is being simultaneously observed, are necessary for the study of
tidal phenomena in large bays (as e. g. White Sea and German Ocean).
Notwithstanding this, the explanation of the phenomena is still very
difficult when they occur in rivers, and where the tide rises gradually ;
whereas the superficial currents are very irregular and slack. In these
cases, starting from the theory developed by Mr. Airy in his work
" Tides and Waves," we arrive at the laws of the phenomena. If, in
fact, the pressure of the ocean in its progress meets with great resist-
ance in the system of waters in a quiescent state, or running in the
opposite direction, then the propagation of this pressure will be observed
as taking place in the form of waves (positive).
The general description of the phenomena of tides was given by me
in the more simple case when the bay is immediately connected with
the ocean. The observations of tidal currents made by many eminent
American, English, and French observers, and also the full investiga-
tion of tidal currents in the White Sea by the Russian hydrographer,
Risnecke, have been taken by me as authorities. From the foregoing
remarks we can infer how complicated the phenomena will be in many
