306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
confirmed by all observations made in points open to the ocean. In
contracted estuaries and along the shore the currents follow the shore
line. In some points of a complicated and large bay a change in the
reverse direction is sometimes observed, as these points are reached
by the currents after many reflections from the shore.
4. The relation of the rise of the tide to the velocity of the flow
solely depends upon local circumstances. If the shore extends perpen-
dicularly to the direction of the flow at its greatest rate, then high water
occurs soon after the time of maximum of velocity. In bays stretching
considerably inland, when the velocity is small and the rise depends
on the mass of water remaining in, the time of high water occurs con-
siderably later than the time of greatest velocity of the current from
the ocean. This delay becomes an essential element in the theory of
tides, for it determines the time and height of high water, and upon it
depends the retard of the spring and neap tides after the days of
syzygy and quadrature.
5. The first part of the establishment is drawn from the theory ; the
second, with the magnitude of the greatest velocity of flow, determines
the influence of local circumstances.
6. The absence of full uniformity in the mean level immediately
proves that the height of the lunisolar tides is not equal to the alge-
braical addition of the lunar and solar tides (one of the evident infer-
ences of theory of tidal motion). In fact, Mr. Airy deduced from the
observations " that the mean level is higher in the large tides than in
the small ones." (" Tides and Waves," p. 374 " The mean
level at Sheerness is higher in spring tide than in the neap tide
by seven inches nearly." .... And I inferred from this that the
lunisolar tide is greater than the addition of solar and lunar tides at
Sheerness by about fourteen inches.) This inequality might be con-
siderable ; but the various resistances to tidal motion on the coast re-
duce the large tides far more than the small tides. Proceeding from
the observations made in Ireland, Mr. Airy alluded to the difference
of the mean height of the sea round the island. The definition of the
normal level on the coast is immediately deduced from my explanation
of the phenomena of tides. In some points of a complicated large
bay, the level of low water at spring tide may be higher than the ocean
level (in case of a constant movement of the waters) ; but the level
in the bay during a quiescent state of waters (as observed at low water)
will never fall lower than the ocean level. The small motion of the
