OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JANUARY 25, 1871. 307
particles of the ocean waters from the shore will be followed by a
similarly small fluctuation of the level along the coast.
The observations of the rise of the tide give us the result of the
effect of all the causes without the possibility of distinguishing the
power of each of them separately. In fact, the elevation of the level
corresponds to each periodical current from the ocean; thus, to explain
some inequalities of the heights of tides, we must consider the causes
from which the periodical currents may proceed. For instance, the
diurnal inequality of heights is observed in all morning and evening
tides, which undergoes a periodical change according to the season of
the year. But, on the other hand, the difference between the heating
of the waters by the sun along the shore (where the diurnal amplitudes
in the temperature are very considerable) and in the ocean will cause
the periodical currents. Certain other inequalities in the heights of
tides will also proceed from the periodical and accidental variations in
the direction and rate of the constant local currents. The power of
the wind to drive the waters into the bays increases the height of the
level. The anomalies in the phenomena of tides are explained by the
interferences of the currents, and by the streams caused by the differ-
ence of the level in the nearest points.
Six hundred and twenty-eighth Meeting.
January 25, 1871. — Stated Meeting.
The President in the chair.
There being no quorum for the transaction of business, the
matters which should have been acted upon at this meeting-
were postponed.
The President announced the death of Professor William
Chauvenet, Associate Fellow of the Academy.
Professor N. S. Shaler made a communication on the Geol-
ogy of the region about Richmond, Ya. He claimed that the
sienite ridge which occurs at that point was of later elevation
than the rest of the Appalachian Ridge, which it clearly resem-
bled in many important regards ; furthermore, that the salient
angle of Cape Hatteras was caused by the elevation of this
ridge. Mr. Shaler also claimed that the Cincinnati axis of
