OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: FEBRUARY 14, 1871. 309
Life of Rumford be presented to Dr. George E. Ellis, together
with a complete set of the Essays (as edited by the Committee),
with the thanks of the Academy.
It was voted that the Finance Committee be requested to
prepare a statement of the current expenses and receipts of the
Academy.
It was voted that the meeting adjourn, at its close, to the
second Tuesday in March.
Professor Pickering made a communication on a new form
of solar eyepiece, by which the light may be reduced to any
desired extent.
In the common diagonal eyepiece all the light is reflected into the
eye by the inclined surface of the prism. A second prism is connected
to the first by some substance whose index of refraction is very nearly
equal to that of the glass. In consequence, an exceedingly small pro-
portion of the light is reflected, the greater part passing directly through,
out of the telescope. Again, since the angle of incidence equals 45°,
the reflected ray is almost totally polarized, and its intensity may be
varied at will by a Nicol's prism. Colored glasses are thus avoided,
and with them the danger of heating and cracking the lenses of the
eyepiece, as almost all the heat and light passes out of the tube. If
desired, it may be received on a second eyepiece or spectroscope, so
that during an eclipse or transit, for instance, two observers may use
the same telescope. A curious coloration of the images is sometimes
produced, probably due to the unequal dispersion of the glass and
cement. Apart from its practical application, this device has a scien-
tific interest as affording a means of producing a plane reflecting sur-
face whose index of refraction is very nearly unity.
Professor J. D. Whitney read several affidavits of the dis-
covery of pre-historic man in Colorado.
Professor N. S. Shaler made a communication on the forma-
tion of continents. He compared the circular development in
the Moon with the linear development in the Earth and Mars. •
Professor J. D. "Whitney read letters from Baron Richtofcn
on the geology of China and Japan. He also exhibited a new
method of illustrating books.
