18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Dr. Warren married, in 1839, Anna Caspar Crowninshield, youngest
daughter of Hon. Benjamin Williams and Mary (Boardman) Crownin-
shield, who survives him. He leaves six children, five daughters and
a son, John Collins Warren, now studying medicine in Germany.
Jeremiah Day, the son of a Congregational minister in New Pres-
ton, Litchfield County, Connecticut, was born August 3, 1773. He
was graduated at Yale College in 1795, and then took charge of the
school in Greenfield, a parish of the same State, which Dr. Dwight
had set up, and which he left to succeed Dr. Stiles in the Presidency
of Yale College. Next Mr. Day was a tutor in Williams College,
then recently founded, and after two years spent in this office accepted
a similar one from his own Alma Mater. Here, having qualified him-
self to preach, he exercised his gift in the neighborhood of New
Haven, until in 1801 he was attacked with hemorrhage, and was ad-
vised to go to Bermuda for his health. Soon after his departure, in
the same year, the President and Fellows of Yale College gave him
the chair of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy. But he returned
from the island wholly unfit to discharge any college duties, and, as he
thought, destined to speedy death. He took refuge at his father's house,
feeble, melancholy, and apparently sinking, until a treatment of reduc-
tion which had been tried upon him was abandoned, and tonics restored
him to some degree of health. In the summer of 1803 he entered
on the duties of his professorship, not taking a heavy burden at first,
but by degrees enabled to assume a due share of labor, and to fill his
place in the College with efficiency and success. He was, however,
always what may be called a man of feeble health, always obliged to
take great precautions against exposure, and to govern himself by the
strictest rules both as to diet and amount of exertion.
For the development of the man this trial from bodily weakness and
from temporary despondency was attended with the happiest results.
By nature given to prudence and moderation, he grew in these re-
spects from his ailments ; he had to study his constitution and to exercise
self-control ; he was obliged to be orderly and methodical ; all these
habits, thus learned or thus strengthened, helped his intellectual and
moral nature, and he attained in this way a degree of practical wisdom
which was one of his striking characteristics. The frail body, also, by
discipline resisted the causes of decay, so that the man, of whose life at
thirty all despaired, lived beyond the age of ninety-four with full vig-
or of intellect.
