318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
T. D. P. Stone, and entered Harvard College in 1849. In college he
maintained a high standing, and at the close of his senior year was the
class-poet. After graduating, he was engaged as a teacher in various
places for ahout five years, for two of which he taught a private school
in his native town. In 1858 and 1859, he was one of the editors of
" The Century," a weekly literary journal published in New York.
On quitting this employment he sailed for Europe, and spent a year in
foreign travel and the study of the continental languages and litera-
ture. In 1861, he aided in the enlistment of a company for the na-
tional service in the great rebellion, engaging in the work with intense
zeal, and expending in it almost all that he possessed ; but was pre-
vented from active duty by an injury occasioned by lifting a heavy
weight in aid of a passing traveller, whose wagon was overturned near
his mother's house. The spinal lesion from which he then suffered
acutely made him an invalid for the rest of his life. At the Com-
mencement of 1861, he read before the Phi Beta Kappa Society of Har-
vard College a patriotic poem, which won for him a very high reputation.
From 1862 to 1864 he was a teacher in Worcester. He then spent
another year in Europe. On his return, in 1865, he was chosen As-
sistant Professor of Modern Languages at Harvard College, and was
appointed to a full and permanent professorship in 1870. Shortly be-
fore this last appointment he was prostrated by a new attack of spinal
disease, in which he lingered for many weeks, not without hopeful
symptoms of convalescence, till his life was closed by a sudden illness
of an erysipelatous type, on the 27th of December, 1870, only a few
weeks after his election as Fellow of the Academy.
Professor Cutler was endowed with native ability of a high order,
and at the same time was, through life, a systematically industrious
student and worker. While a good classical scholar, he was especially
versed in the French and German languages and literature, and was,
at the same time, familiar with the best writers in his own tongue. In-
deed, few men of his years have united to a greater degree than he
did special and general scholarship ; so that, while a master in his own
department, he was no sciolist in any branch of liberal culture.
As a writer, he was characterized by clear thought, pure, chaste, and
transparent diction, and singleness and earnestness of purpose. The
little that he wrote leaves only room for regret that it should have been
so little. His poetry manifested a fertile fancy and no mean creative
power, joined with great rhythmical euphony ; and when he recited
