OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 9, 1871. 319
his own verse, he gave it an intense charm by the sweetness of his
tones and the unaffected fervor of his utterance.
His preferred work, and that for which he was best adapted by na-
ture and education, was that of a teacher. He made learning attrac-
tive both by his own example of the amenities and graces that belong
to liberal culture, and by that keen appreciation of truth and beauty in
thought, style, and expression, which won from his pupils their admira-
tion of the literature which he opened to their knowledge. He under-
stood, too, the modes of access to minds of various complexions, and
was often successful in awakening capacities, tastes, and receptivities,
which would have responded to no less skilful touch. He was at the
same time the watchful and judicious friend, counsellor, and helper of
his pupils, seeking their highest moral well-being, in rebuke faithful,
but always kind, persevering and often eminently successful in his
labors for the wayward and unpromising. For not a few students of
the University, his interposition at a time of temptation or discourage-
ment marked the turning-point of their career, and many will have life-
long reason to thank him for their established virtue, industry, and
well-being. His services as a College teacher were invaluable, and
of his associates there probably is not one who did not regard him as
occupying a place which may not easily be filled again.
His character in all its aspects commanded equal respect and affec-
tion. No man has had or deserved warmer friends. His purity,
simplicity, integrity, and kindness made him the object of implicit con-
fidence to all with whom he was associated, and in the nearer circle of
home and socialjntimacy leave the most precious and hallowed mem-
ories.
The time has come when there must be stricken from the list of ou
living members a name which has stood there for more than fifty
years.*
Of those members of the Academy who have taken small part in its
discussions, and whose names do not appear in its memoirs, no one has
done more to advance the objects for which the Academy was instituted
than George Ticknor. It is fitting, therefore, that we should pause a
moment to take notice of his life, and of the great loss which Science,
as well as Letters, has suffered by his death.
* Mr. Ticknor was chosen into the Academy on November 8, 1820.
