320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Mr. Ticknor, son of Elisha Ticknor, an intelligent and public-spirited
man, one of those who first opened the doors of the public schools to
all the children of Boston under the age of seven, was born in Boston,
August 1, 1791. His father, a classical scholar, had been a teacher,
and knew how safely to indulge the extraordinary power of application
and attainment of his son, and to kindle within him the fire which
always continued to burn, without checking his uncommon vivacity
and playfulness, so that he was graduated at Dartmouth College, after
a full and successful course, in 1807, at the age at which most boys in
those days entered college.
Returning to Boston, he pursued his studies for three years under
the care of the Rev. Dr. Gardiner, a worthy pupil of Dr. Parr, and
was filled with that enthusiastic love of the Greek and Latin classics
which he always retained. " His brightness, industry, ardor, and per-
severance," says a friend who knew, " combined with agreeable, re-
spectful, and gentlemanly manners," made him a favorite with Dr.
Gardiner, who procured for his young friend admission to the Anthol-
ogy Club, of which he was president, thus placing him amongst much
older persons, the best scholars and most distinguished men of letters
of their day.
He then devoted three years to the study of the law, in the office of
William Sullivan, a good lawyer and a true gentleman, and was ad-
mitted to the bar in 1813. As it was impossible for him to do anything
superficially, he gave promise of distinction in that profession. But,
while he could not but retain the fruits of the severe mental discipline
which faithful study gives, and gained from it, doubtless, something
of the skill and wisdom with which he always managed his own affairs,
as well as a safe guide in all his investigations, he preferred literature.
He went abroad in April, 1815, with his friend Edward Everett, and,
after a few weeks in London, just at the time of the battle of Waterloo,
hastened through Holland, stopping chiefly to buy books, to Gottingen,
where they lived in contiguous rooms in the house of his favorite
teacher, Bouterwek, whose highest work he was destined to surpass.
At Gottingen he labored faithfully in his philological studies, from
August in that year to March, 1817, during which time he became
perfectly familiar with the German language.
In Paris, in the summer of 1817, in Rome through the following
winter, and in Madrid from May to September, 1818, he studied with
equal energy. During his residence on the continent, and in Edin-
