OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 9, 1871. 323
pamphlet in 1831, taken, with additions, from the American Quarterly
Review. This is a rapid hut beautiful sketch of the life of the great
statesman by a kindred spirit who justly and feelingly appreciates all
that is great and admirable in his character.
Besides these larger works, Mr. Ticknor furnished valuable commu-
nications in every part of his life to the Anthology, the North American
Review, the Christian Examiner, and other Reviews, upon subjects of
interest to scholars and men of science.
He could never be idle ; and very much of his time, in the last years
of his life, was given to the Boston City Library. No one could be
better qualified for this labor than Mr. Ticknor was, by acquaintance
with the best books on all subjects, and by the experience he had had
in forming his own unsurpassed library, of which the portion relating
to Spanish literature was the most complete collection known. This,
with thousands of other volumes, he gave or he bequeathed to the City
Library.
These precious gifts will be gratefully enjoyed by many generations
of American scholars, who can only know Mr. Ticknor by his writings,
and can look upon him only in the exquisite bust by Milmore, which
adorns the Upper Hall of the Library.
Mr. Ticknor died, in the eightieth year of his age, on the morning
of the 26th of January, 1871. The one best fitted to know and to
judge of his virtues as well as his accomplishments has given him the
simple but all-sufficient title of the Christian Scholar.
The Hon. John Pendleton Kennedy was born in Baltimore on
the 25th of October, 1795, and was graduated at Baltimore College
in the seventeenth year of his age. After a brief service in the field,
as a volunteer, during our last war with England, he entered on the
practice of the Law, and gave the best promise of becoming a con-
spicuous member of the Maryland bar. But literature and politics
soon diverted him from professional pursuits, and he will be remem-
bered mainly as an author and a statesman. His principal produc-
tions in literature were " Swallow Barn, or a Sojourn in the Old Do-
minion,'-' published in 1832 ; «' Horse Shoe Robinson, a Tale of the
Tory Ascendancy," published in 1835; and "The Life of William
Wirt," in two volumes, published in 1849. In political life, he served
successively as a member for many years of the House of Delegates
i " Maryland, of which he was more than once the Speaker ; as a
