OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 9, 1871. 325
students of mathematical science in America, Dr. Chauvenet's health
became seriously impaired shortly after his appointment to his new
office, and it was never afterward re- established. After several periods
of partial recovery, he resigned the chancellorship in 1869, and he died
on the 13th December, 1870.
Dr. Chauvenet was the author of <k Binomial Theorem and Loga-
rithms " (1843, 92 pp. 8vo), of " A Treatise on Plane and Spherical
Trigonometry" (1850, 256 pp. 8vo), "A Manual of Spherical and
Practical Astronomy" (1863, 2 vols., 708 and 632 pp. 8vo), and "A
Treatise on Elementary Geometry " (1870, 368 pp. 8vo). His special
investigations, published in various journals and volumes of proceed-
ings, are mostly embodied in the treatises above named.
Dr. Chauvenet is most widely known through his Trigonometry, a
truly admirable text-book of the first class in respect of method and of
arrangement, and so full that while it is entirely adapted to the instruc-
tion of beginners, it is invaluable as a book of reference to the professed
mathematician. It is constructed on the excellent plan of embracing
in one volume the whole general theory of the trigonometric functions
in its higher developments, as well as in its elementary principles ; and
this plan is carried out with so much learning and industry, that, in
spite of some deficiencies with respect to topics which have recently
acquired importance, the book is still, after the twenty-one years that
have elapsed since its publication, the most complete existing work on
the subject of which it treats. Tt must long remain a classical treatise.
The Astronomy exhibits the same qualities of full and exact learning
and of elegance in form. It embraces the thorough discussion, accord-
ing to the best methods, and well illustrated by actual examples, of all
the problems which arise in the ordinary work of a practical observa-
tory ; and it is in use among working astronomers all over the world.
The Geometry is an essay in a field of mathematical science to which
Dr. Chauvenet's genius was. less strikingly adapted than to that of an-
alysis. It is, however, an important contribution to the discussion
concerning the treatment of pure geometry, which is just now exciting
a renewed interest among mathematicians. But whereas the Trigo-
nometry and Astronomy may be said to have left nothing to be desired
in their respective subjects, this, from the nature of the case, could not
be true of any treatise on so many-sided and profound a subject as that
of geometry. The introduction of some of the modern ideas (while
others are, perhaps arbitrarily, excluded), and the appendixes, contain-
