326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
ing a large and excellent series of examples and a good introduction to
the Chaslesian Superior Geometry, give a special character and a high
value to the" book, which is marked throughout by those excellences
which belong to all the works of its author.
As a mathematician, Dr. Chauvenet is distinguished by extensive
learning, inexhaustible patience and thoroughness of research, exact-
ness of method, good choice of points of view, and a very high degree
of elegance and skill as an analyst. His works, judged as books of
elementary instruction, are direct and clear in mathematical style, and
quite free from that painful amplification of first principles which too
often characterizes text-books pretending to scientific accuracy ; while,
considered as embodying the complete development of their respective
subjects, according to the best and latest researches, in a hjghly prac-
tical and well-digested form for working mathematicians, they are books
of the first order. The labors of few American mathematicians have
reflected so much credit on science in this country ; and it is to be
lamented that the early decline of his health cut short a career which
had already been so honorable, and which, it was hoped, would yet
present an exemplification of still higher forms of mathematical power.
His private character was most estimable, attractive, and delightful.
His whole course in life was governed by the highest principles, both
in the purity and devotion with which he fulfilled his active relations,
and in the thoroughness of his scientific work. His disposition was en-
tirely amiable, and his companionship was full of the charm which pro-
ceeds from a sprightly, cultivated, and high-minded intelligence.
Dr. Jarvis presented a paper on the longevity of the Euro-
pean races in the United States.
Remarks on this communication were made by Messrs. E. H.
Clark, N. G. Shaler, Nathaniel Holmes, and Edmund Quincy.
Six hundred and thirty-third Meeting.
May 30, 1871. — Annual Meeting.
The President in the chair.
The President read the following letter from Professor Daniel
Tread well : —
