OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 19
From 1803 until 1817 Professor Day filled the chair to which he
was first appointed, and on the death of Dr. Dwight, with very great
shrinking, accepted the vacant office of President. The two men were
in many respects quite opposite. The one was impulsive, rhetori-
cal, brilliant, formed to command ; the other calm, philosophical, with-
out brilliancy, unwilling to lead. But the choice, as the event showed,
was a wise one. During the twenty-nine years of his presidency the
College grew steadily and surely. He had the respect and esteem of
all. His success showed, we think, that colleges, which often strive to
find brilliant untried men for their principal officers, men unused to
college ways and ignorant of that queer thing, a college student, might
do better sometimes, if they looked after a noiseless worker, experienced
in his calling, honored by those around him, who has proved himself
equal to all the emergencies of discipline and of instruction in the
past.
At the age of seventy-three, President Day laid down his office, not be-
cause he felt any peculiar infirmities of old age creeping over him, but be-
cause he wished to resign before infirmities should weaken his judgment
and lead him to outstay his time. Followed by the love of all who
had known him, — among whom were all the two thousand and \\\e
hundred to whom he had given a degree, — he retired into private life,
yet he was not wholly unconnected with the College, having been on his
resignation chosen into the Board of Fellows. In this corporation he
served until just before his death, and thus had had, as an officer and
a Fellow, a share in the government of the College for sixty-seven
years. His life during his retirement was serene and happy, his mind
retained its strength and its interest in the affairs of the world until
his last illness, and even in those two or three days before his end,
the power of expression, rather than that of thinking, gave way. He
closed his eyes in peace on the 22d of August, 1867, when "he had
reached the age of ninety-four years and nineteen days.
Perhaps the leading trait of President Day's character was the har-
mony of his whole nature, in which you could scarcely say wliat was
due to native qualities, what to philosophical training, and what to
Christian principle. His mind by nature had certain very valuable
traits of the more solid and unpretending sort. Imagination was not
remarkable among them, nor was he in any marked degree original,
nor could he be called a deeper thinker than many men are. But a
person familiar with him would be struck with his uncommon clear-
