OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : NOVEMBER 8, 1871. 333
John Trowbridge, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in
Class I., Section 3.
J. A. Allen, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in Class
II. , Section 3.
William H. Pettee, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow
in Class II., Section I.
John K. Paine, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in
Class III., Section 4.
Edwin P. Seaver, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in
Class I., Section I.
Professor Benjamin Peirce made a communication on the
effect of the consistency of the interior of the earth on the
Precession of the Equinoxes. Mr. Hopkins claimed that the
effect of the fluidity of the interior would be to render the pre-
cession much greater. This view was controverted by Mon-
sieur Delaunay, but sustained by Mr. Pratt. Professor Peirce
maintained that, owing to friction, a certain velocity would be
imparted to the interior, even if liquid, so that it would pro-
duce the same effect as if solid.
Dr. Charles Pickering stated that, having seen the earth's
crust forming, he would make a few remarks on the subject :
At the time of his visit to Hawaii there were two lakes of liquid
lava at the bottom of the Great Crater ; the larger lake remained
always liquid, but the smaller one, " two hundred feet " in diameter,
occasionally congealed over. Here is one point gained : for it has been
argued, that the material of the Earth, if once entirely fluid, in cooling
would contract, become heavier, and sink ; therefore forming a crust is
impossible. It is forgotten that a perfectly dry cambric needle can be
placed on water so as to float, and for the reason, that it displaces more
of the water than its own bulk. So in the irregularities of the earth's
surface commonly attributed to the cooling material contracting, we can
distinguish a general tendency to concavity, proportionably diminishing
and counterbalancing increase in weight.
To return to the smaller lava-lake, when the congealed crust broke
up, there was a different state of things. In thickness, this crust seemed
six or eight inches ; and back from its edge, usually several feet, a
crack would make its appearance, showing a red glow from beneath ;
