336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
The fraction for the Oculina is about one fifth, for the Madre-
pore a higher ratio, while for the Carnapsammia it is less than
one third.
Professor Benjamin Peirce made a communication on the
mean motions of the four outer planets. After referring to the
curious relation noticed by Laplace, that the mean motion of
Jupiter is very nearly five times that of Saturn, and to his own
observation, that the mean motion of Uranus is about twice
that of Neptune, he proceeded to show the following new
relation between these mean motions: — 3n 7 -j- 8w 8 — n 5 = o.
4w 6 — 16n 7 -4- 9n s ==o, and 2n 5 — 12n 6 -J- 17n 8 -f- 6w 9 = o. La-
place has shown that if such relations are approximately true
they must, in time, become accurately so ; and hence these
equations afford an excellent means of computing the mean
motions of Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune, assuming that of Ju-
piter. The results are for Saturn, 44.001.805 sec, for Uranus,
15.428.182 sec, and for Neptune, 7.871.511 sec, which agree
very nearly with observation.
Mr. William Everett proposed —
A new reading in Virgil, JEneid, Book I. Line 445.
The reading of all the MSS. here is : — Egregiam, et facilem
V1CTU per saecula gentem. The interpretations of the word Victu
here are various. Some commentators venturing to take it from inn-
cere, and using it actively, so that facilem victu = victoria pollentem.
Most, however, take it as a latter supine from vivo, or ahlative singular
from victus, and make facilem victu = facilem victum habituram.
This view is best stated by Heyne, Excursus ad locum, who compares,
but, in my opinion, inaptly, Georg. II. 460, iEn. VIII. 318. His
statement has satisfied later commentators. Weidmann (Commentar
zu Virgil's JEneis, B. I. und II. Leipzig, 1869) has summed up all
the learning that can be advanced on it.
I confess that, after all possible parallels have been adduced, I can-
not find either a symbol of fertility or wealth in a war-horse ; nor can
I think facilem victu a natural expression in the sense given it. I
therefore propose to read Facilem VECTU — the E and Jin the best
uncial MSS. differing exceedingly little from each other.
Thus we shall have Virgil's very favorite word vehor, I move, or am
