338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
and nut at the end of each bolt, a perfectly steam and water tight joint
is secured, without the intervention of cement or packing. A system
of spheres thus united, six wide and twelve or thirteen long, forms
what is called a section ; and a boiler consists of several of these sec-
tions, all discharging steam into the same pipe. In setting the boiler
the sections are placed on edge, side by side, so that the lines of bolts
make an angle of about forty degrees with the furnace grate.
The security of the Harrison boiler depends on the following fea-
tures in its mode of construction. In the first place, the spherical
form, adopted for the units of the boiler, greatly economizes the tensile
strength of the iron, and it has been estimated that, with a metal
having a tensile strength of three and one half tons to the square inch,
the bursting strength of the units would be nearly three fourths of a
ton per square inch. The strength of a boiler consisting of such units
will, of course, be no greater than that of the weakest sphere of the
structure; but as all the sections are tested at the manufactory by
hydrostatic pressure, as high as three hundred pounds to the square
inch, a defective unit is discovered before the boiler is delivered to
purchasers.
It is not maintained, however, that the units of the Harrison boiler
cannot be burst under excessive pressure ; for, as experience has
shown, it is impossible to make a vessel, at least one of any practical
value as a steam-generator, which cannot be burst. It is merely a
question how high a temperature it can stand before yielding. But
the evidence before the Rumford Committee has sustained the opinion
that, in case of such an accident to the Harrison boiler, a violent
destructive explosion is almost impossible ; and this brings us to the
consideration of the second feature on which the security of this boiler
depends.
In an ordinary plate-iron boiler the yielding at any point almost
inevitably involves the rending and complete destruction of the whole
structure. A tear started at a defective rivet, or on a line of corrosion,
will instantly lay open the whole vessel, when the expanding steam
scatters the contents in all directions, and hurls the fragments with a
force which no ordinary constructions of buildings or ships can with-
stand. The recent experiments of Mr. Stevens, of Hoboken, as de-
scribed in a report to the Secretary of the Navy by three of the chief
engineers in the naval service, show very conclusively that this tearing
apart of the boiler-plates under pressure is the simple cause of the
