20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
ness and precision in thought and expression, with his great good sense
and the perfection of his practical judgment, with the admirable method
which he showed in everything. In the composition of his character, the
two qualities which were nearest to the border-land of defects were cau-
tion and reserve. The latter was quite noticeable. He never spoke
of himself, — neither of what he had done nor even of the maladies
which had afflicted him during his later life. But his reserve, not
being the effect of pride or of timidity, but rather of humility and of
the absence of selfish affections, while it rendered men somewhat un-
familiar with him, detracted nothing from his power to inspire respect
and veneration. So also his caution was not properly timidity, but the
natural foundation of a prudence, which being under the control of
principle, always carried the judgment of others with it.
His religious principle blended beautifully with a natively blameless
character, so that one could not separate the two. It was not put on, but
seemed as much a part of his life as were his intellectual qualities.
He never spoke of himself, he showed his religious life by deeds,
not by words ; but there was an impression conveyed to all who knew
him that he was not only a blameless but a holy man, one who " walked
with God." And a spirit of sweet peace accompanied him wherever
he went, together with a dignity which was the shadow cast by his
pure and elevated life, which made no claims and sought no homage,
but received it as an involuntary tribute.
As a man of science and of philosophical thought, President Day
entered into the two fields of Mathematics and Metaphysics. From the
time of his leaving the mathematical chair, upon his election to the
presidency, he was almost entirely devoted to the other branch of
study and instruction. During his professorship he felt the want of
elementary treatises in the mathematical course which should be fitted
to the peculiar necessities of American colleges. He accordingly first
prepared his Algebra, which was given to the world in 1814, and from
that day to this has appeared in a multitude of editions. Many years
afterwards he undertook a revision of it with the help of a younger
friend, which carried the resolution of the higher equations and some
other branches much beyond the limits of the original work. Two
years after his Algebra appeared his treatise on Mensuration and
Plane Trigonometry, and in 1817 his Navigation and Surveying.
These also have been often reprinted, but never had the circulation
which was reached at an early day by the Algebra. Of these works,
