OP ARTS AND SCIENCES : JANUARY 9, 1872. 339
destructive explosions of plate-iron boilers, and, to use the words of
the report, " that in accounting for either the fact of an explosion, or
for its destructive effects, there is no necessity for hypothesis of low
water, enormous pressures, instantaneous generation of immense quan-
tities of steam, superheated steam, the formation of hypothetical gases,
the development of electricity, &c, &c. The most frightful catastrophe
can be produced by simply gradually accumulating the pressure of the
saturated steam to a strain, at which the strength of the boiler yields,
nor need that pressure be much above what is ordinarily employed
with boilers of this type." In one experiment the boiler exploded
with most destructive violence in less than a quarter of an hour after
the pressure had passed the inspector's limit.
Such a sudden tearing open of the whole vessel has never taken
place, and does not seem to be possible, with the Harrison boiler. Un-
der an excessive pressure the weakest units in the system may yield,
and injury may be caused by the sudden discharge of water, or of
steam ; but the injury to the boiler must be, to a great extent, local,
probably extending only to the breaking of a single unit, and involving,
at the most, a rapid but still regulated emptying of its contents. The
parts being wholly independent, there is no tendency in a rupture to
extend from one unit to its neighbor's ; and moreover, as a general
rule, long before the bursting-point is reached, a third feature of the
boiler comes into play, which, perhaps, more than either of the other
two, protects it from destructive explosions. The units of the boiler
no^ being cemented together, the least yielding of the tie-bolts opens
every joint and makes each of them a safety-valve. That this is the
normal action of the boiler under excessive pressure has been abun-
dantly established, not only by the experiments made by Mr. Harrison
before a committee of the Franklin Institute, but also by the experi-
ence of a member of our own committee.
The Rumford Committee were satisfied, by the evidence herein
stated, that the Harrison boiler is not liable to those violent destructive
explosions referred to above, and to which the ordinary plate-iron
boilers, however carefully or strongly made, must be always more or
less exposed. Considering further the economical advantages to be
gained from high-pressure steam, and the paramount importance of
such security as Mr. Harrison has attained in the use of this powerful
agent, they felt themselves justified in making the recommendation, on
which the Academy acted, in awarding to him the Rumford medal. It
