340 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
must be noticed, however, that the award has been made for a " mode
of constructing steam-boilers, by which great safety is secured" and
that the safety of the boiler is the only point on which the committee
based their recommendation. They did not feel themselves called
upon to weigh carefully the relative merits of the Harrison boiler when
compared in other respects with the many forms of steam-boilers now
in use. They considered that its already extended and rapidly increas-
ing use was sufficient evidence that the Harrison boiler was an efficient
and economical steam-generator. More than this they did not require
to be proved; for whatever might be the defects of the boiler, — and
some doubtless there are, — the committee considered that Mr. Harri-
son had made an important advance in the application of steam by
demonstrating experimentally the principles on which a safe steam-
boiler can be made, and working them out to a practical result.
These principles being established, we may hope that any defects in
the present construction may be hereafter remedied.
It remains only to consider how far the principles or features of con-
struction to which we have referred are original with Mr. Harrison.
At least twenty-five years ago Dr. Ernst Alban, a distinguished Ger-
man engineer, clearly recognizing the impossibility of securing safety
in a steam-boiler by strength of materials alone, advanced the impor-
tant opinion that the only sure method of avoiding danger is " so to
construct the boiler that its explosions may not be dangerous " ; and
in a valuable work originally published in Germany, but of which
an English translation, published in 1843, was alone before the
committee, a mode of constructing steam-boilers is described in
which this principle is skilfully applied. Mr. Harrison has adopted
the principle of Dr. Alban, and, in a pamphlet on the steam-boiler,
published at Philadelphia in 1867, he prints the opinion of Alban,
quoted above, at the head of his essay ; but his method of embodying
this principle is as dissimilar as possible. Moreover, he has carried
out the principle more fully than Alban himself. The German boiler,
like the American, is made in sections, so that the bursting of one would
bring no destructive consequences from the general body of the boiler ;
but it is merely a modification of the well-known tubular boiler, and
does not -combine the advantages which Harrison obtains from the
spherical form of his units, and the mode by which they are bolted to-
gether without rivets or cement.
Rut the merit of Mr. Harrison and his claim to the Rumford medal
