344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
To see the connection between the development of life on the several
continents and the variety of their outlines, it will be necessary to con-
sider, from the point of view of Mr. Darwin, the difference between the
conditions in which life is developed on two surfaces of equal area but
differing very widely as regards the irregularity of the surfaces. In
the first place, the irregularity of any extended land surface is in a
general way a good measure of the number of important geological
accidents to which the region has been subjected. There can be no
question that Europe, the most varied of the continents in external sur-
face, has many more distinct mountain systems than North America,
the next in our series. Each of these " systems " is the mark of a
wide-spread change of physical conditions which has brought important
disturbances into the relations of the life by such accidents existing on
sea and land. Many species would be extinguished, and, of those which
survived, many would have to adapt themselves to new conditions, and
so change and advance are made possible. Again, there is a direct and
constant influence exercised by diversity of surface. The number of
specific forms, and the consequent energy of the struggle for existence
on any continent is, other things being equal, dependent upon the va-
riety of conditions it offers to life. Compare two equal areas of, say,
one hundred miles in extent, the one a level plain, the other thrown
into a mountain mass, which extends from the tropics at the base to the
frigid zone at its summit of perpetual snow. On the one you may find
essentially the same organic forms throughout, and the competition is at
the minimum ; on the other, every mile of ascent brings you in contact
with new forms, all the conditions of land life are crowded together,
and their varied creatures put into such immediate contact that the
struggle must be very much intensified. The seeds of plants belong-
ing on the different zones, the insects which depend upon them, the
many creatures dependent on the plant or insect life, are often swept
by the streams or the winds, or forced by want of food into new con-
ditions of life ; cross-fertilization of plants and animals is far more likely
to take place in these metropolitan centres of life than where the
boundaries of species are made by barriers more insuperable than a
mile of mountain slope.
Professor John Trowbridge presented the following remarks
on Animal Electricity : —
The investigations of Du Bois Reymond, Matteuci, and others have
