OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: FEBRUARY 13, 1872. 365
The President communicated the following : —
Botanical Contributions by Asa Gray.
1. Notes on Labiatce.
At the close of a preceding article (see vol. 8, pp. 294-296) two
new genera of Labiatag were described. I now offer additional notes
upon one of these genera, and upon some other plants of the order,
beinc: such of the results of a recent revision of the North American
species as seem worth while to be now recorded.
Poliomintha, Gray, in Proc. Am. Acad. 8, p. 295. — The two
species on which the genus was founded, P. incana and P. longijlora,
have corolla intus piloso-annulata ; calycis dentes erecti. A second
section has to be added : viz.
§ 2. Corolla exannulata : calycis dentes nunc patentes. Keitkice
affinius sed staminum superiorum filamenta sterilia conspicuoe.
P. marifolia. Keithia marifolia Schauer, Linmea, 20, p. 705.
If Coulter's no. 1080 be rightly here referred, the species is well
marked by its roundish-ovate leaves with diverging veins, and its
erect calyx-teeth one third to one fourth the length of the tube ; rudi-
mentary filaments filiform. The calyx is obscurely bilabiate.
P. mollis. Tomentoso-incana, basi tantum lignescente ; foliis ova-
tis ovalibusque 3 - 5-plinerviis basi in petiolum brevem angustatis ;
calycis dentibus subina?qualibus tubo angusto 13-nervi quadruplo bre-
vioribus inosqualiter patentibus ; corolla calycem duplo superantibus ;
rudimentis staminum superiorum brevibus subulatis. Hedeoma mollis
Torr. Mex. Bound, p. 129 (char, vix bona). — S. W. Texas; cliffs on
the Rio Grande near Puerte de Paysano, Dr. Bigelow.
Cunila Mariana L. The genus Cunila, of which this species is
the type, ever since its reformation by Bentham more than 30 years
ago, has been characterized as diandrous with no vestiges of the supe-
rior pair of stamens. Bentham cites the figure in Sweet, Brit. Flower
Garden, t. 243, without noticing that it represents, and the letterpress
describes, a rather conspicuous capitellate-tipped pair of rudimentary
stamens, probably supposing this to be incorrect. It is, however, only
an exaggeration ; for, as Professor Buckhout of Pennsylvania Agricul-
tural College has shown me, minute rudimentary sterile filaments are
uniformly present in our species. If truly absent in the Mexican and
Brazilian species, the value of this character as a generic one is re-
