370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
ovatis obtusis, superioribus ovato-lanceolatis oblongisve, floralibus
suinmis minutis calyce brevioribus ; verticillastris sessilibus plurifloris
plerisque in spicam cylindricam nudam (1 - 2-pollicarem) congestis ;
calyce viridulo ovato-cam{ianulato, dentibus triangulari-subulatis tubo
dimidio brevioribus ; corolla (albida, vix lin. 2 longa) staminibusque
parum exsertis. — S. W. Texas near the borders of New Mexico (sta-
tion not recorded, Wright, without number). A close congener of
C. Mexicana Benth., to which belongs (as a var. cana) C cana Hook. ;
and G. pallida var. Torr. Mex. Bound, is a form with smaller and
shorter corollas.
Scutellaria L. Although it may be inexpedient to make of this
genus a distinct tribe, as proposed by Visiani and adopted by Reichen-
bach, yet, now strengthened by the genus Salizaria Torr. (illustrated
in the Botany of the Mexican Boundary), with similar embryo, &c, I
should arrange for the two a subtribe (Scutellarinece) of the Stachy-
dece, — to which Perilomia (figured with a straight embryo) does not
belong. The winged nutlets of Perilomia, however, are curiously
imitated in one or two species of Scutellaria, only obscurely so in
S. parvida, as has been noted by Dr. Torrey in the work above men-
tioned, but strikingly in S. nervosa Pursh, and in a Japanese species
not otherwise very similar, viz. S. hederacea of Kunth and Bouche.
Dr. Torrey's reference of S. Drummondii to his & resinosa is not
borne out. The gradual transition alluded to is through a species quite
distinct from either, and having neither the annual root of the former
nor the filiform subterranean stolons bearing moniliform or concate-
nated tubers which the latter exhibits along with its near allies, S. tuber-
osa, angustifolia, antirrkinoides, and parvida. The nutlets of S.
resinosa, and especially those of S. Drummondii^ are muricate, those
of the species now distinguished are only minutely granulate and
very much smaller. Its diagnosis is as follows : —
Scutellaria Wrightii. Nee stolonosa nee tuberosa, e radice
perenni lignosa multicaulis (semi - subpedalis) ; pube minuta ; foliis
ovatis et spathulato-oblongis integerrimis subsessilibus ; corolla villoso-
pubescente (violacea, lin. 6-7 longa) sursum valde ampliata, labiis
requilongis ; nuculis minoribus minute granulatis. — E. Texas, Wright
(no. 477, 478, 1539), Lindheimer. S. W. Arkansas, Gordon.
* The original character of S. Drummondii assigns to it crenate leaves, of which
there is, however, rarely a trace. Probably S. cardiophylla was confounded
with it.
