OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : FEBRUARY 13, 1872. 395
371. Pentstemon Richardsonii Dougl. Lindl. Bot. Reg. t. 1121.
372. Pentstemon diffusus Dougl. ; Lindl. Bot. Reg. t. 1132 *
373. SCROPHULARIA NODOSA L.
374. Mimultjs luteds L. ; the large form. 375. Small-flowered
form of the same.
376. Mimulus moschatus Dougl.; Lindl. Bot. Reg t. 1118.
377. Mimulus floribundus Dougl. ; Lindl. Bot. Reg. t. 1125.
378. Mimulus alsinoides Dougl. ; Benth. in DC. Prodr. 10, p.
373. A well-marked species, which I have not before received, mostly-
more luxuriant specimens than Douglas's plant appears to be, and
none of the peduncles " much longer than the leaves," most of them
barely equalling the leaf, but then the petiole is very slender.
379. Gratiola ebracteata Benth. in DC. Prodr. 10, p. 595.
* The three following species were in Miss Searls's collection made in the
Pahranagat Mountains, S. E. Nevada : —
Pentstemon Palmeri Gray, Proc. Am. Acad. 7, p. 379. Prom the dried spe-
cimens and from the report of Mr. Watson this should be " an exceedingly hand-
some species," but in cultivation here thus far it is not quite so showy as might
have been expected : the flowers are elegant, but almost white.
Penstemon c^espitosus Nutt., var. ? incands : foliis brevioribus sursum
ssepius latioribus (obovato-spathulatis) cum sepalis ovato-oblongis pube creberrima
canescentibus ; pedunculis brevibus unifloris erectis. Very likely a distinct
species.
Pentstemon Eatoni, n. sp. Quoad folia et inflorescentia virgata P. barbato
simillimus, sed pedunculis pedicillisque brevioribus P. centranthifolii ; corolla (coc-
cinea raro alba) sensim ampliata imberbi labiis brevibus erectis parum ina?qualibus
P. imberbis modo, sed antherse loculis divergentibus, filamento sterili hinc barbu-
lato. — P. centranthifolius S.Watson, Bot. King, p. 219, non Benth. — Of this
species I received a flower several years ago, from some now forgotten source, and
referred it to P. imberbis: consequently I did the same upon receiving a specimen
collected in Arizona by Dr. E. Palmer. Mr. Watson, who, in company with Pro-
fessor Eaton, found it abundantly in Provo Canon, Wahsatch Mountains, referred
it to the Californian P. centranthifolius. But, besides other distinctions, it has the
characteristic anthers of the Elmigera group, to which it adds a third species.
The cells of the anther diverge widely, and are much larger than those of P. im-
berbis : their dehiscence stops well short of the apex. Upon this the character of
the section rests ; for in this species, as in the Mexican one just mentioned, the
lower lip of the corolla is not at all decurved, apparently not even patent. Speci-
mens have been distributed under the name of P. miniatus, Lindley's plant of that
name, in the last volume of the Botanical Register, having been overlooked. As
it is likely to be brought into the gardens, and perhaps to be as great a favorite as
its relatives, P. barbatus and the variety Torreyi, I take pleasure in having it bear
the name of Professor D. C. Eaton, one of its discoverers.
