OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 25
has recently been incorporated under the title of the " Trustees of the
Peabody Academy of Science." He was also one of the original trus-
tees of the Cambridge Museum of Archaeology, founded by the same
munificent hand, and was a member of several other scientific institu-
tions.
Mr. Peabody was a man of active and vigorous mind, reaching out
for knowledge on every side. With a genius for scientific experi-
ments and for mechanical invention he combined a disposition, as well
as ample means, to befriend the labors of others in these directions.
While distinguished for the variety of his knowledge, he was indefati-
gable in reducing it to practical use, and was ever ready to apply his
liberal means to advance the welfare of his neighbors by the encour-
agement of industry and the discovery of new sources of profit.
As his life was characterized by devotion to the studies and pursuits
which lead to the enduring prosperity of a country, so his memory will
long be cherished for his engaging virtues as well as for his active zeal
in all worthy undertakings.
Professor Chester Dewey, D. D., LL. D., who was elected into
this society fifty years ago, died at Rochester, New York, on the 15th
of December last. He was born at Sheffield, Massachusetts, on the
25th of October, 1784, and had therefore entered upon the eighty-
fourth year of his age. He was .graduated at Williams College in
1806, was licensed to preach in 1808, but was that same year recalled
to his Alma Mater as tut^r, and in 1810 was appointed Professor of
Mathematics and Natural Philosophy (including Chemistry), which
chair he occupied for seventeen years, to the great advantage of the
College. Here, and afterwards as Preceptor of the Gymnasium, a
high school for boys which he established at Pittsfield, and carried on
for ten years, he did excellent service and acquired abiding fame as an
educator. In 1836 he was called to the charge of a similar, but larger,
establishment at Rochester, New York, which he conducted with great
success until the year 1850, when he became Professor of Chemistry
and Natural Philosophy in the newly founded University in that city.
He actively performed the duties of this chair for ten years or more,
when his age gave a just claim for retirement, although his powers
were little impaired, and he gave occasional lectures or other services
until he had reached the age of fourscore. His scientific contributions,
which began in the first volume of Silliman's Journal in 1818, were
continued down to within a year of his death, extending therefore
VOL. VIII. 4
