400 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
leafy stem, in these specimens more pubescent than in those from Cali-
fornia, and' the flowers more numerous and spicate. It was thought
to be of the Avicularia section, but the present specimens refer it
rather to the section Aconogonon, along with P. alpinum or polymor-
phum. Professor Brewer describes the root as annual, which I should
hardly suppose ; the leaves are mostly sessile, ovate, 1 to 2 or even 3
inches long ; ochrese chestnut -colored, obliquely truncate. Perianth
barely a line long, tapering to a very acute or almost stipitate base :
achenium smooth, with broad faces, twice the length of the perianth.
In California it belongs to the Sierra Nevada : it was collected by
Professor Brewer himself, Professor Torrey, and by Miss N. J. Davis,
to whom it is appropriately dedicated.*
* Professor Brewer arranges the Californiau Polygona of the Avicularia section
into : —
1. Annuals, with stems not at all striate: P coarctatum Dougl. and P. Califor-
nicum Meisner.
2. Annuals, with stems striate, at least towards the base : P. tenuis Michx., P.
ramosissimum Michx., and P. aviculare L.
3. Perennials, with stems woody at base, and branches slender ; bark chestnut-
brown : P. Paronychia Cham. & Schlecht., and the two following new species.
" P. Shastense, Brewer. Woody ; branches prostrate ; leaves lanceolate, plane
or at least not revolute, either blunt or acute : sheaths inconspicuous, scarious and
much torn : flowers in a very loose leafy spike, 1 - 3 in an axil, 2-3 lines long,
on pedicels nearly or quite as long : styles \ the length of the ovary or less. The
base of the crabbed stem is of very hard dark wood, sometimes half an inch in
diameter. Branches prostrate, crooked, rough with old leaf-scars, 4-8 inches long
and a line or less in diameter, leafless except for the inch or two near the end. Joints
usually but 1 or 2 lines long. The silvery sheaths are very inconspicuous. Flowers
conspicuous, white, bright rose, or red. Perianth tapering to a very acute or almost
stipitate base which is sometimes corrugated ; the segments broadly obovate or
orbicular, sometimes emarginate, veined, usually deepest colored along the middle.
The 2 or 3 outer segments are channelled, making the flower triangular. Sierra
Nevada in exposed places, on dry ashy soil, Mt. Shasta to Carson Pass, Torrey,
Brewer.
" P. Bolanderi, Brewer. Woody ; branches erect and slender, with numerous
lateral flowering spikes above : leaves minute, cuspidate-mucronate; sheaths nerve-
less, scarious and much torn: flowers commonly solitary in the axils, l£ lines
long, on pedicels \ as long, rather acute at the base, the segments elliptical and 1-
nerved ; styles | as long as ovary or less. — The gnarled and crabbed base is
often an inch or more in diameter and of very hard wood, bearing broomlike
tufts of very slender woody branches. These are very numerous, erect, nearly
straight, 10-18 inches high, wiry or filiform, half a line in diameter, the joints
6-10 lines long, almost naked below, and bearing at nearly every upper node a
