26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
through nearly half a century. These related, some of them to Phy-
sics and Chemistry, more to Meteorology, to which he paid much at-
tention, but most of all to the one department of Botany, with which he
has inseparably connected his name. His only separate botanical work
was a Report on the Herbaceous Flowering Plants of Massachusetts,
made by him as one of the Commissioners on the Zoological and Bo-
tanical Survey of the State, recommended by Governor Everett, at the
suggestion of the Boston Society of Natural History, as the comple-
ment of the Geological Survey by the late Professor Hitchcock.
Although much less important than the Avell-known reports of his col-
leagues, Harris, Gould, Storer, and Emerson, it shows his predilection
for botanical pursuits. But, aware that other duties must mainly fill
his working hours, Professor Dewey wisely selected a special depart-
ment upon which he could concentrate the endeavoi's his leisure might
allow, and turn them to permanent account. He chose the large and
difficult genus Carex for special study, and in it became a leading au-
thority. His " Cartography " in Silliman's Journal began in the year
1824, and finished with a general index to the numerous articles
scattered through forty-three years, in January, 1867. There are very
few of our about two hundred North American species with which Dr.
Dewey's name is not in some way associated, and of many he was the
original describer.
Professor Dewey must have been one of the latest survivors of
those whose taste for natural history was developed under the lectures
of Amos Eaton, when that remarkable man commenced his career as a
teacher in Western New England, and in Botany, having devoted him-
self perseveringly to a particular department, he became the most
distinguished of that school. As teacher, man of science, citizen, and
Christian minister, he was a specimen of the typical Western New-
Englander, — a peer among those who have not only made that dis-
trict what it is, but have also in great measure founded the institu-
tions and determined the character of the now lengthened line of
States westward from the Hudson to beyond the Mississippi. Highly
esteemed and honored throughout an unusually long and useful life, in
his serene old age he was very greatly revered.
Dr. Samuel Luther Dana died at Lowell, Massachusetts, March
11, 1868, in the seventy-third year of his age, of the effects of a fall
on the ice some weeks before.
Dr. Dana was a native of Amherst, New Hampshire, fitted for col-
