414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
tery, and to surrender itself to its powerful influence. Its dominance
as a passion marks the epoch of civilization commenced. We must
recognize this remarkable passion as the only power able to master the
hindrances and overcome the obstructions in the pathway of civiliza-
tion. Property and civilization are substantially convertible terms.
A minute knowledge of the processes of evolution of this idea would
constitute in some respects the most extraordinary chapter of the
mental history of mankind.
The materials to be presented in this paper tend to illustrate, and
are confined to, the state of marriage, of the family, and of the tribal
organization among the Australian aborigines.
Systems of consanguinity and the tribal organization as they are
now found to exist among savage and barbarous nations are chiefly
important from the light they seem to throw upon the growth of the
idea of the family through successive stages of development. Some
of these systems of consanguinity are either primitive or quite near
the primitive form, whilst others are in different stages of advance-
ment. They indicate with substantial certainty that the Communal
Family, founded upon the intermarriage of brothers and sisters, was the
first and earliest form of the family in the primitive ages ; or, at least,
the earliest we are as yet able to recognize. Between this and the
Barbarian Family (second stage of the family) there was a wide in-
terval. The tribal organization intervened between these forms, and
produced the gradual transition from one into the other. It seems to
have been the primary object of this organization to break up the
intermarriage of brothers and sisters, although the same result was
reached among the Australian aborigines by a sexual organization
anterior, in the order of time, to the totemic system. Brothers and
sisters were necessarily of the same tribe, and marriage between them
was permanently abolished by the prohibition of intermarriage in the
tribe. The tribal organization tended to inaugurate marriage between
single pairs, since it forced individuals to seek wives from other tribes,
or to acquire them by negotiation, by purchase, and by capture. This
tendency, however, was retarded by the subdivision of the same people
into several tribes, which furnished each other with wives ; but more
especially by a system of regulated cohabitation, running by conjugal
right {jura conjugialia)* through a large circle of related persons.
* The Romans made a distinction between connubium, which related to wedlock,
considered as a civil institution, and conjugium, which was a mere physical union.
