416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
ing a phase of the tribal organization, together with a sexual organi-
zation, antecedent to the former in point of time, not hitherto known,
except generally, as the writer believes.*
We may further observe that the tribal institution was one of the
oldest of the human family. Commencing in savagery and traversing
the remainder of this period and the whole period of barbarism, it has
probably been more influential than any other single institution upon
human advancement. The nations of the Aryan and Semitic families
were tribally organized in the remote past, lived and progressed under
it, and only emerged from it, or laid it aside, when they had reached the
commencement of their civilized careers. Property overthrew tribal-
ism. In like manner the nations of the Turanian family were thus
organized in the barbarous ages, some of them retaining it to the pres-
ent day, whilst others have worked out from it into partial civilization.
The American aborigines and the nations of Central Africa are still
living in the tribal state; and this is true also of the Malayan and
Australian families, where they have attained to a condition as far
advanced as this organization presupposes. There are Polynesian
nations still below the tribal state, amongst whom there is evidence of
the intermarriage of brothers and sisters until a comparatively recent
period.
Island nations progress much slower than continental. Some of
them are still savage, and, if not absolutely stationary, are nearer the
primitive condition than any other portion of mankind. At the same
time their present state points to an anterior condition as far below it,
as all the centuries of their experience, with some degree of continuous
progress, necessarily implies. The Australians are savages. Belong-
ing to the Alforan race, they rank below the Malayan, the Polynesian,
and the Ganowanian. Their domestic institutions, therefore, must ap-
proach the primitive type as nearly as those of any other people. It
is for the last-named reason that the facts of their social organization,
about to be presented, possess a high degree of importance.
Three memoranda, furnished by Mr. Fison, are hereto annexed, and
marked A, B, and C. They have been prepared with so much care
and precision that but little can be added to render them more com-
plete. Since, however, they were written at different times, it may
prove an advantage to the reader to have them presented in a form
* A brief notice of this system is given in McLennan's " Primitive Marriage,"
p. 1 18, and also in Tylor's " Early History of Mankind," p. 285.
