OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MARCH 12, 1872. 417
uniting the three papers in one, thus giving him the option of the
secondary or the original. An organization simple to savages may be
embarrassing to ourselves until its principles are mastered ; but with a
reasonable share of attention it can be intelligently followed to the end.
The form of the tribal organization and of kinship under it to be
presented, prevails among that portion of the Australian aborigines
who speak the Kamilaroi language. They inhabit the Darling River
country north of Sidney. It is also found in other Australian nations.
First. The Kamilaroi people are divided into six tribes, standing
with reference to the right of marriage in two divisions, as follows : —
1. Iguana (Duli), 4. Emu (Dinoun),
2. Kangaroo (Murriira),* 5. Bandicoot (Bilba),
3. Opossum (Mute), 6. Blacksnake (Nurai).
Originally the first three tribes were not allowed to intermarry with
each other, but were allowed to do so with the other three ; and vice
versa. This restriction is not anomalous, and would not of itself in-
vade the fundamental structure of the tribe.f It is now modified in
certain definite particulars, but not carried to the full extent of permit-
ting marriage into any tribe but that of the individual. No person
can marry into his or her own tribe. Descent is in the female line,
the children following the tribe of the mother. These are the essential
characteristics of the tribal organization wheresoever this institution is
found ; and the Kamilaroi tribe, in its external features, is at once
perfect and complete.
Secondly. But there is a further division of the people into eight
classes, four of which are male and four female, with a regulation in
respect to marriage which changes the nature of the tribe itself, or,
rather, demonstrates that the tribal organization is in process of devel-
opment into its true ultimate form. One only of the four classes of
* Paddymelon, a species of kangaroo.
t The Seneca-Iroquois are divided into eight tribes, as follows : —
1. Wolf. 2. Bear. 3. Beaver. 4. Turtle.
5. Deer. 6. Snipe. 7. Heron. 8. Hawk.
" Originally, with reference to marriage, the Wolf, Bear, Beaver, and Turtle,
being brothers to each other, were not allowed to intermarry. The four opposite
tribes, being also brothers to each other, were not allowed to intermarry. Either
of the first four tribes, however, could intermarry with either of the last four, the
relation between them being that of cousins In process of time, however,
the rigor of the system was relaxed, until the prohibition was confined to the tribe
of the individual They can now marry into any tribe but their own." —
League of the Iroquois, p. 83.
vol. viii. 53
