418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
males can marry into one only of the four classes of females. More
than this, if the male belongs to one of the first three tribes, the female
must belong to one of the opposite three. The first restriction is in
opposition to the true ideal of the tribe, because, as will hereafter be
seen, a portion only of a tribe is allowed to marry with a portion only
of another tribe, demonstrating the proposition before advanced, that
the totemic system among the Kamilaroi was in the incipient stages of
development.
The classes are the following : —
Male. Female.
1. Ippai. 1. Ippata.
2. Kumbo. 2. Buta.
3. Murri. 3. Mata.
4. Kubbi. 4. Kapota.
All the Ippais, of whatever tribe, are brothers to each other ; all the
Kumbos are the same, and so are the Murris and Kubbis respectively.
In like manner, all the Ippatas, of whatever tribe, are sisters to each
other ; all the Butas are the same, and so are the Matas and Kapotas
respectively. In the next place, all the Ippais and Ippatas are brothers
and sisters to each other, whether children of the same mother or col-
lateral consanguinei, and in whichever tribe they are found, Kumbo
and Buta are the same ; and so are Murri and Mata, Kubbi and
Kapota, respectively. Mr. Fison, quoting from the letter of Mr. Lance,
remarks, " All Ippais are brothers, and all Ippatas are their sisters, and
so also with Kubbis and Kapotas. If a Kubbi meets a Kapota whom
he has never seen or heard of before, they address each other as
brother and sister." The Kamilaroi, therefore, resolve into four great
groups or circles of brothers and sisters. This is the first distinctive
feature of the Australian system of kinship, disclosing an organization
older than the tribes founded upon sex, and more archaic than any
constitution of society hitherto discovered.
The term classes will perhaps answer for these subdivisions, although
not entirely satisfactory. The classification is apparently sub-tribal,
but in reality sexual. It has its primary relation to a law of marriage
as remarkable as it is original.
Brothers and sisters are not allowed to marry. They are neces-
sarily of the same tribe, except as they are tribal brothers and sisters
through the class connection. Therefore the classes stand to each
other in a different order with respect to the right of marriage, or the
