OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MARCH 12, 1872. 419
privilege of cohabitation, which better expresses the relation. One
class of males, as before stated, can marry but one class of females-
Such was the original law, thus : —
Ippai marries Kapota, and no other.
Kumbo " Mat a " " "
Murri " Buta " " "
Kubbi " Ippata " " "
This exclusive scheme has been modified in one particular, as will
be hereafter shown.
It is thus seen that each male in the selection of a wife, or rather in
the range of the conjugal privilege, is limited to one fourth part of all
the Kamilaroi females. Tppai, in the Emu, Bandicoot, and Blacksnake
tribes, can marry Kapota in the Iguana, Kangaroo, and Opossum tribes ;
and Kumbo, in the same first three, can marry Mata in the last three.
On the other hand, Murri and Kubbi in the last three can marry
Buta and Ippata respectively in the first three tribes. This, however*
is not the most remarkable part of the system. Theoretically, every
Kapota is the wife of every Ippai, every Mata is the wife of every
Kumbo, every Buta of every Murri, and every Ippata of every Kubbi.
Upon this material point the information communicated by Mr. Lance
to Mr. Fison is specific. The latter, after observing that Mr. Lance
had " had much intercourse with the natives, having lived among them
many years on frontier cattle stations on the Darling River, and in the
trans-Darling Country," quotes from his letter as follows: " If a Kubbi
meets a stranger Ippata, they address each other as Goleer = Spouse.
.... A Kubbi thus meeting an Ippai, even though she were of another
tribe, would treat her as his wife, and his right to do so would be
recognized by her tribe." (See Memo. B.) A fortiori every Ippata
within the immediate circle of his acquaintance would also be his wife.
Here we find, in a direct and definite form, communal marriage, or
a legalized system of cohabitation in a great communal family, with
the family itself as comprehensive as the range of the conjugal privi-
lege. Under these jura co7ijugialia a domestic institution was formed,
giving to one quarter of all the males the conjugal privilege with one
quarter of all the females of the Kamilaroi nation ; and making it the
basis, originally, of their social organization. It is but a step from
promiscuous intercourse ; or the same thing, in reality, with a method.
Moreover, it is deeply significant as a revelation of an existing state of
marriage, and of the family in a nation of savages. It is the first
