420
PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
direct evidence of a condition of society which had previously been
deduced from systems of consanguinity and affinity as extremely prob-
able, if not substantially certain.*
Thirdly. Whilst the children remained in the tribe of their mother,
they passed into another class of the same tribe. This will be made
apparent by the following table : —
Male. Female. Male. Female.
1. Ippai marries Kapota. Their children are Murri and Mata.
2. Kumbo " Mata. " « " Kubbi " Kapota.
3. Murri " Buta. " " " Ippai " Ippata.
4. Kubbi " Ippata " " " Kumbo" Buta.
If we follow out these descents, we find that in the female line
Kapota begets Mata, and Mata, in turn, begets Kapota. It is the
same in the male line ; for Ippai begets Murri, and Murri, in turn,
begets Ippai. Further than this it will be seen, by crossing from one
class into another, that the blood of each male and female ancestor
passes through each of the classes ; thus Ippai begets Murri, Murri
begets Ippata, Ippata begets Kumbo, Kumbo begets Kapota, Kapota
begets Mata, Mata begets Kubbi, and Kubbi begets Buta.
Fourthly. Out of the preceding statements we have the full con-
stitution of the tribes, with the several classes belonging to each. The
classes are in pairs of brothers and sisters, and the tribes themselves
are constituted in pairs, as follows : — •
Tribes. Male. Female. Male. Female.
Iguana (Duli) All are Murri and Mata, or Kubbi and Kapota.
1.
2.
3.
4.
Emu (Dinoun) "
Kangaroo (Murriira) "
Bandicoot (Bilba) "
Kumbo " Buta,
5. Opossum (Mute)
6. Blacksnake (Nurai)
Murri "
Kumbo "
Murri "
Kumbo "
Mata,
Buta,
Mata,
Buta,
Ippai
Kubbi
Ippai
Kubbi
Ippai
Ippata.
Kapota.
Ippata.
Kapota.
Ippata.
* " Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family, Smithsonian
Contributions," Vol. XVII. p. 480 et seq. Mr. John F. McLennan, in " Primitive
Marriage," was the first to collect and point out the evidence of promiscuous inter-
course, more or less general, amongst barbarous nations. In this remarkable
work, which is noteworthy for its originality, logical acuteness, and thoroughness
of research, he remarks : " We have examples of general promiscuity, and exam-
ples of modified promiscuity, in which, with a pretence of marriage, the woman
may bestow her favors upon any one, under certain restrictions as to rank and
family." (p. 117.)
