OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MARCH 12, 1872. 423
suits will appear. The children of Ippai and Kapota are Murri and
Mata. As brothers and sisters they cannot marry. At the second
degree the children of Murri married to Buta are Ippai and Ippata,
and of Mata married to Kumbo are Kubbi and Kapota. Of these
Ippai marries his cousin Kapota, and Kubbi marries his cousin Ippata.
It will be noticed that the eighth class are reproduced from the original
pair in the second and third generations. In the next, or third degree,
there are two Murris, two Matas, two Kumbos, and two Butas ; of whom
the Murris marry the Butas, their second cousins, and the Kubbis the
Matas, also their second cousins. At the fourth generation there are
four each of Ippais, Kapotas, Kubbis, and Ippatas, who are third
cousins. Of these the Ippais marry the Kapotas, as before, and the
Kubbis the Ippatas. At the fifth generation there are eight each of
Murris and Butas, Kumbos and Matas. They are fourth cousins,
of whom the Murris marry the Butas, and the Kumbos the Matas.
A similar chart of the other marriageable classes will produce like
results. It is thus made apparent that near consanguinei not only inter-
marry constantly, but are compelled to do so by this sexual organiza-
tion. One of the primary objects secured by the tribal organization,
when fully developed, so as to allow marriage into every tribe but that
of the individual, was thus defeated.
Sixthly. We come next to an innovation upon the original consti-
tution of the tribes, which reveals a movement, still pending, in the
direction of the true ideal of the tribe. It is shown in two distinct
particulars : First, in allowing the first three and the second three
tribes respectively to intermarry to a limited extent ; and, secondly, to
marry into classes not before permitted. Thus Iguana-Murri can now
marry Mata in the Kangaroo tribe, his sister ; whereas originally he
was restricted to Buta, in the opposite three tribes. So Iguana-Kubbi
can now marry Kapota, his sister, in the Kangaroo tribe, whereas he
was at first restricted to Ippata, in the opposite three tribes. In like
manner Emu-Kumbo can now marry Buta, his sister, in the Blacksnake
tribe, and Emu-Ippai can marry Ippata, his sister, in the same tribe,
contrary to original limitations. Each class of males in each of the
three tribes seems now to be allowed one additional class of females in
the" two remaining tribes, from which they were before excluded. Mr.
Fison, however, in his table (Memo. C), does not show a change to the
full extent here indicated. .
This innovation would have been a retrogade movement, but that it
