424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
tended to break down the classes, and thus give to every male the right
to marry any female in any tribe but his own, which, we have seen, is
the law of the tribal organization in its ultimate form. When in its final
stage it necessarily assures a greatly increased tendency to marriage be-
tween single pairs, leading to the establishment of the barbarian family,
with a great curtailment of the range of the conjugal privilege. The
line of progress among the Kamilaroi was evidently from classes into
tribes, followed by a tendency to overthrow the classes, and to render
the tribe, instead of the class, the unit of organization. In this move-
ment the overshadowing system of cohabitation was the resisting
element. It is the first instance in which we have been able to look
far down into the incipient stages of the tribal organization, and even
through it upon an anterior condition so truly archaic as an organiza-
tion of society upon sex. It seems to afford a glimpse at the absolutely
primitive state of man. The tribe, as it progressed toward its ultimate
form, seems to have advanced, aequo pede, with the curtailment of the
range of the conjugal privilege, which, among the Kamilaroi, still verges
upon promiscuity. The inference is plain, that ages upon ages passed
away whilst the tribal organization, even among the most highly endowed
races, was passing through its successive phases. Among the Austra-
lian aborigines it is still in a rudimentary state, although possessing the
more prominent characteristics. They might not have effected the
overthrow of the classes for thousands of years to come, had they re-
mained undiscovered and undisturbed in their insular homes ; whilst
more favored continental nations, commencing in a similar condition,
have first advanced this organization through its successive stages, and
then worked their way out from it into civilization. It seems probable
that the tribes among the Fijians and Micronesian Islanders, where the
totemic system is known to exist, will be found in the same transitional
stage. The innovations described were clearly in the nature of reform-
atory movements to reduce the excessive amount of in-and-in marriage
among consanguinei. Facts such as these illustrating the successive
stages of development of the tribal organization are of the highest
importance and of peculiar value. Marriage and the family are in-
volved at every stage of this progress, and the growth of the idea of each
must be traced through all the shades of man's experience in the tribal
state, before the conception of the barbarian family is reached, which
is then but the family in its second stage.
It must be admitted that the Kamilaroi classes are older than the
