426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
the next place, by allowing the males to marry into two classes of
females, instead of one, a still greater advance was made, and of a
radical character. These changes must be regarded as reformatory
movements tending to the realization of the true ideal of the tribe, in
which, as elsewhere stated, a man can marry a woman of any tribe but
his own, and also of any foreign nation. The Kamilaroi tribal system
is below this final stage. Beside this, it still retains a conjugal system
more stupendous and extraordinary than any hitherto found in any
nation of barbarians, or in any other nation of savages.
The social state of the Kamilaroi, with the classes in full vigor, but
enveloped in a tribal organization progressing gradually to their over-
throw, seems much nearer the primitive constitution of society than any
organized form previously known. It has, in all probability, remained
in this condition substantially for centuries, the changes above indi-
cated representing the whole amount since the tribal idea was devel-
oped. It does not follow that this form of the system was indigenous
in Australia, since it may have been carried, with their remote island
ancestors, from a primitive Asiatic seat, and maintained, with slight
changes, through the intermediate periods of time. The antiquity of
the tribal organization is without known limits. It is, at least, coeval
in its germ with the time when brothers and sisters ceased to inter-
marry. The hypothesis of its propagation from an original centre into
all the families of mankind is much more in harmony with ascertained
facts than any other, looking to its spontaneous or indigenous develop-
ment in many different places and in different ages. Original ideas,
absolutely independent of previous knowledge and experience, are
necessarily few in number, and as rare as original germs of animal
life. Were it possible to reduce the present sum of human ideas to
underived originals, the numerical result would be startling. Human
experience has run in such uniform channels as to suggest the presence
of a governing element incorporated in the original constitution of man,
which predetermined the direction and limits of this experience. This
argument leads to an original man ; and to his development, through
growth and specific reproduction, which necessarily must have been
progressive, logical, and homogeneous. The tribal organization seems
to have sprung from this class of primary conceptions.
The barbarian family, which has been frequently named, is more
easily characterized than defined. Its nucleus was a pair, of which the
man regarded the woman as his principal wife, and the woman the man
