OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MARCH 12, 1872. 427
as her principal husband, but without an exclusive cohabitation. Asso-
ciated with them for mutual subsistence and protection were other
similar pairs, living with their children in a common household, with a
restricted but not prohibited cohabitation. The barbarian family, as it
now exists in the Ganowanian family, approaches the civilized family.
It is founded upon marriage between single pairs, with fragmentary
families of near kindred united in a common household ; but with the
conjugal privilege above indicated either extinct, or reduced to narrow
limits. At the time of their discovery the more advanced were living
in large communal houses, and practising communism in living as far as
the same could be carried out in practical life. Conjugal fidelity was
exacted of the women, but not of the men. Where a man can put away
his wife at pleasure, as he may in most barbarous nations, and always
could among the old Romans, continence is not the highest virtue.*
Mr. Fison in Memorandum A has deduced theoretically the Tura-
nian system of consanguinity from Kamilaroi kinship. It is both in--
genious and interesting, and fully sustained by the principles of the
tribal system. The actual system, when procured, will probably agree
with the theoretical substantially, but fall below it in some particulars.
Mr. Fison furnished schedules of consanguinity and affinity of the
Yarras, near Melbourne, and of the Murray bands near Victoria, but
neither is sufficiently perfect to establish the exact character of the
system. It is partly Malayan, but chiefly Turanian in form, and
evidently in the transition stage from one into the other. This was to
have been expected from the condition of the tribal organization
among the Kamilaroi, and which is presumptively in the same stage
among the Yarras and Murray bands.
It is perhaps unnecessary to remark that the Kamilaroi people have
each a personal name to distinguish the individual. When we say
Ippai marries Kapota, we simply mean that a male of the Ippai class
marries a female of the Kapota class. f
* The American Indians describe divorce, " throwing a woman away " ; thus
adding contempt to injury. The Romans divorced their wives of their own volition ;
but the right was subject to the obligation of restoring the dower of the wife. Ovid,
as we know, put away two wives, and Cicero two. Divortium, whence divorce,
originally related to the putting away of a wife exclusively.
t Savages seem to have a tendency to classify persons into groups. The tribes
of the Maranoa district, Queensland, who speak the Unghi dialect, divide the males
into classes according to age. Up to seventeen or eighteen years of age a male is
