428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
In the light of this discussion some of the excrescences of modern
civilization, such as free love and Mormonism, are seen to be relics
of the old savagism not yet eradicated from the human brain. The
nations of the Aryan family assume not only to be civilized, but to be
far advanced in civilization ; whereas this is strictly true of a small
minority only. Barbarism and savagism still lurk in all cities, and in
all corners of civilized lands, repressed by law and restrained by su-
perior intelligence. We have the same identical brain, perpetuated
through reproduction, which worked in the skulls of savages and bar-
barians in bygone ages ; and it has come down to us ladened and
saturated with the thoughts, aspirations, and passions with which it was
busied through the intermediate periods. It is the same brain grown
older and larger with the experience of the ages. These outcrops of
barbarism are so many revelations of its anterior proclivities ; a kind
of mental atavism.
Finally, out of a few germs of thought, planted in the human brain
in the primitive ages, have been evolved all the institutions of man-
kind. Beginning their growth in the period of savagery, fermenting
through the period of barbarism, they have reached their fruition in
the period of civilization. The evolution of these germs of thought
was guided by a natural logic, which formed an essential attribute of
the brain itself. So unerringly does this principle perform its functions
in all conditions of experience, and in all periods of time, that its results
are uniform, coherent, and traceable in their courses. These results
alone will in time yield convincing proofs of the unity of origin of the
human family. The mental history of mankind, which is crystallized
in civil and domestic institutions, and in inventions and discoveries, is
presumptively the history of a single species, perpetuated through
individuals, and developed through experience. Among the original
germs of thought, as stated at the outset, which have exercised the
most powerful influence upon the human mind, and upon human
destiny, are those which relate to the family, to government, to lan-
guage, to religion, and to -property. They had a definite beginning,
a logical progress, but can have no final consummation, because they
are still progressing, and must ever progress.
Andoo ; from eighteen to about thirty he is Howalah, and is allowed to marry ;
from thirty to about fifty he is Muidara, and after fifty he is Ngara. Beside this
they have the class divisions of the Kamilaroi, and the tribes. This information
was communicated to Mr. Fison by Mr. A. S. P. Cameron.
