28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
great advantage to the agricultural interests of the Commonwealth,
Dr. Dana condensed his notes into a pithy treatise, which was issued
in 1842 under the quaint title of " A Muck Manual for Farmers," —
a name indicative of the prominent idea of the work. Five editions
of this book have been published in this country, and it has been re-
printed in England. At the suggestion of Dr. Warren, he also wrote
an Essay on Manures, for which a prize was awarded by the Massa-
chusetts Society for promoting Agriculture. These labors awakened
in his own mind such an interest in the tillage of the soil, that he
bought a farm near Lowell for the purpose of testing his particular
views, and successfully directed its cultivation for many years. He
seems to have found no occasion to modify the propositions which he
laid down at first ; though he might have seen fit to add some limita-
tions to one or two of them, had he tried the unctuous bottom lands of
the Mississippi Valley as well as the light soils of Middlesex County.
In point of time, originality, and ability, Dr. Dana stood first among
scientific writers on Agriculture in this country, and his works have
done great good. But the agricultural treatises by which he has be-
come so well and favorably known were but the secondary results of
his inquiry into the nature of cow-dung as related to calico-printing.
The primary object was pursued with signal success. He found that
the property of fixing mordants was owing, in a great measure, to the
presence of phosphates, and that the cumbrous and costly animal ex-
crement might be effectually replaced by cheap soluble phosphates pre-
pared from bones. As the discovery came to be rendered fully availa-
ble in the regular routine of work, the fifty cows which had been con-
stantly kept by the Merrimac Company were sold off, and a few bar-
rels of burnt bones were occasionally brought into the Works under a
name understood only by the initiated. Dr. Dana as an employee of
the Company was not allowed to secure a patent for the invention, and
thus received no personal benefit from it, though it has effected an im-
mense saving to others. But another person, with a full knowledge of
what had been done at the Merrimac Print Works, went to England
and sought to turn the discovery to account there ; and it was then
found that Mercer had at the same time been making similar trials.
In fact the English and the American chemist independently origi-
nated the use of dung substitutes. But probably to Mercer must be
conceded the priority of experiments by a few months, while Dana
was the first to make the substitution a complete success in actual prac-
