OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MARCH 12, 1872. 435
3. He informs me "that a Kubbi thus meeting an Ippata, even though
she were of another tribe, would treat her as his wife, and that his right
to do so would be recognized by her tribe."
Inference : The word goleer=.wik, as the Fijian wate = wife, does
not imply the conjugal relation as understood by us, but is simply " one
of those with whom I may cohabit."
4. Mr. Lance, after telling me about the class-names and their vari-
ous relations, goes on to say : " The way I have stated as between the
different names is the normal and usual regulation ; but it is crossed
and complicated occasionally by other arrangements which I do not
understand."
Probably these complications are caused by the privilege granted to
Ippai of taking Ippata as well as Kapota, which Mr. Lance seems not
to have noticed.
5. He says : " Every black fellow, besides the names I have men-
tioned (i. e. the class-names), is called after some animal, which he calls
his Mudgee, implying some incomprehensible relationship. The usual
rule is that every Kumbo is an Emu, every Ippai a Blacksnake, every
Kubbi an Iguana, etc. They have also a third individualizing name.
But sometimes I have come across a man and wife whose names were
not suitable for the connection ; and on inquiring how this eould be,
they would reply, ' This Ippai is not a Blacksnake, as are most Ippais,
but an Opossum. That explains it.' "
This appears to me to be important. The " names not suitable for
the connection " must be the class-names borne by the couple whom
Mr. Lance questioned ; and as the man was an Ippai, the woman was
probably an Ippata, for had she been a Kapota there would have been
nothing strange in the connection (see Table A, Memo. A). Here we
have a clew to Ippai's privilege. It seems probable that the Ippais are
divided into two classes, the Blacksnakes and the Opossums.
Ippai the Blacksnake being the husband of Kapota ; and
Ippai the Opossum being the husband of Ippata.
But I have no information as to whether the Blacksnake may be the
husband of Ippata, and the Opossum the husband of Kapota. If the
Blacksnake be restricted to Kapotas, and the Opossums to Ippatas,
we have in effect a fifth class of males. Now the Rev. W. Ridley
informs me that among the Wide Bay natives, five class-names for
males are used (see Memo, A). Further inquiries as to the Wide
Bay names will probably throw further light on this point.
Stdxet, May 5, 1871.
