438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
1. Emu (Dinoun) Ippai and Ippata: Kumbo and Buta.
2. Iguana (Duli) Murri " Mata : Kubbi " Kapota.
3. Kangaroo (Murriira) Murri " Mata : Kubbi " Kapota.
4. Blacksnake (Nuari) Ippai " Ippata: Kumbo " Buta.
5. Opossum (Muta) Murri " Mata : Kubbi " Kapota.
6. Bandicoot (Bilba) Ippai " Ippata: Kumbo " Buta.
Inferences.
1. From these tables it is evident that a man may cohabit with his
half-sister by the father's side, though not with his full sister, or with
the half-sister by the mother's side. That this is an innovation on the
system explained in Memo. A may perhaps be inferred from the fact
that the children of such a connection take the class-names which
they would have had, had their father's been of the usual class.
2. Persons having the same animal name may not intermarry.
3. In the six classes arranged under the animal names, it is worthy
of note that the names of one pair are those of the children of the wo-
man of the other pair. Thus the Emus are Ippai and Ippata, Kumbo
and Buta. Now Ippata is the mother of Kumbo and Buta ; and Buta
is the mother of Ippai and Ippata (see Laws of Descent, Memo. C).
Mr. Ridley informs me that Murri has a third distinguishing name,
which is that of his father's grave (see Memo. B).
He also gives me another most important fact, namely, that there are
separate terms for brother or sister according to seniority. Thus : —
Daiadi, Elder Brother. Boadi, Elder Sister.
Gullami, Younger Brother. Burri, Younger Sister.
These are the words used by a male.
Sydney, August 7, 1871.
Note. — If the divisions caused by the animal names be tribal, then
is it evident that the child is of the mother's tribe, as among the North
American Indians and the tribes of Central Africa, because the child
always takes the mother's animal name.
Six hundred and forty-third Meeting.
April 9, 1872. — Monthly Meeting.
The President in the chair.
The President announced the death of Professor Trendelen-
