OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 4, 1872. 443
J. A. Allen, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in Class II.,
Section 3.
William H. Pettee, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in Class
II., Section 1.
John K. Paine, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in Class III.,
Section 4.
Edwin P. Seaver, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in Class
I., Section 1.
Charles F. Dunbar, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in Class
III., Section 3.
"William A. Rogers, of Cambridge, to be a Resident Fellow in Class
I.. Section 2.
Samuel Johnson, of New Haven, to be an Associate Fellow in Class
I., Section 3.
Charles A. Young, of Hanover, N. H., to be an Associate Fellow in
Class I., Section 2.
Leo Lesquereux, of Columbus, Ohio, to be an Associate Fellow in
Class II., Section 2.
Since the last annual meeting, the Academy has lost by death nine
Foreign Honorary Members, four Associate Fellows, and three Resi-
dent Fellows.
George Grote died in London, June 18, 1871. He was born
November 17, 1794, at Beckenham, Kent, and received his early edu-
cation at the Charterhouse School. At the age of sixteen he entered
the banking-house of Prescott, Grote, & Co., in London, of which his
grandfather had been the founder, and in which his father was still a
partner. It was a strange fate which sent to a bank rather than to
the university a young man of ample means, already inspired with a love
of ancient learning, who was destined to revolutionize the opinions of
scholars on important points of Grecian history, antiquities, and philos-
ophy, and to make himself a recognized authority on these subjects, not
merely at home, but even among the most learned scholars of the Con-
tinent. Considering the period at which he would have entered aca-
demic life, we may, perhaps, doubt whether the fate that guided him
was not propitious to the cause of learning. His own studies, conducted
without teachers, and perhaps not without a little willing opposition to
the traditions of English scholarship, led him into the purer and freer
air and to the wider views of German learning, at a time when he
might have found Oxford and Cambridge still singing the old song,
