444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
" The Germans at Greek are sadly to seek." It must, indeed, have
been no ordinary enthusiasm that impelled a young man, under such
circumstances, to undertake what is perhaps the most thorough study
of the whole Greek literature — poets, historians, and philosophers —
ever accomplished by a self-educated man in modern times. It was
not, as has sometimes been thought, his parliamentary experience that
caused him to study the constitution of ancient Athens ; nine years
before he entered public life we find him preparing for his History
of Greece, the first volume of which, however, was not published
until 1846, twenty-three years later. The original research and the
profound learning which this work displayed, even in its earliest
volumes, testify to long years of hard and patient study. There is no
easy or short road to learning of this nature. In 1832, his literary
labors were interrupted by his election to the House of Commons as
member for the city of London. He remained in Parliament nine
years, and distinguished himself especially by what was called his " an-
nual motion " for the ballot. In his later years, when his favorite
scheme was brought into Parliament as a ministerial measure, he could
well afford to smile at the ridicule with which it was once greeted on
all sides. His public life delayed, perhaps fortunately, the publication
of his History. In the mean time, Thirlwall's " History of Greece "
appeared, which took an immense step in advance of the Tory views
of Mitford, but did not aim at such an overthrow of English opinions
and prejudices about Greek democracy as Grote contemplated. That
literary men, even out of England, were expecting Grote's History
with interest, appears from a letter of Niebuhr (who died in 1831), in
which he advised a friend to translate the coming work into German
as soon as it should be published. In the years 1846- 1856 were pub-
lished the twelve volumes of Grote's " History of Greece." Nine years
later was published his other important work, " Plato, and the other
Companions of Sokrates," in three volumes. If his History astonished
scholars by the intimate acquaintance of a self-educated man with the
Greek historians and poets, his Plato called forth new surprise, that a
man so pre-eminently practical as Mr. Grote, whose sober common-sense
was one of his great virtues as an historian, should prove equally fa-
miliar with the great idealist of antiquity, whose whole mode of thought
and reasoning was in constant conflict with his own. It often seems,
indeed, as if the pleasure of refuting the many absurd theories which
were current about Plato and his works made up to Mr. Grote for the
