OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 4, 1872. 445
patient toil by which he must have mastered many elaborate and often
tedious arguments of the Platonic Socrates, leading to conclusions the
furthest possible removed from his own sympathies. At the time of
his death, he was preparing for the press a similar work on Aristotle ;
and it can hardly be doubted that the same sagacity, joined with a deep-
er sympathy with the author and the subject, would have made this the
crowning work of his life. It remains to be seen how far the posthumous
work, now daily expected, will realize the expectations of scholars.
It was not to be expected that the graduate of a London bank, who
had known no higher institution of learning than the Charterhouse
School, should be as familiar with all the nice details of classical schol-
arship as if he had been trained at a university. But no modern histo-
rian of Greece was ever more thoroughly imbued with the whole spirit
of classical antiquity, or ever viewed the field from a more commanding
position. Although his views have often been violently attacked, and
especially his defence of Athenian democracy in its least defensible
points, his writings have yet produced a gradual change in the feelings
of nearly all scholars towards even the weaknesses of Athens. No one,
for example, will ever again attack the Sophists indiscriminately as a
corrupt sect of philosophers, with a common creed and a common pur-
pose of corrupting the youth of Athens. Even Cleon, that coarsest
product of Attic democracy, will perhaps fare a little better at the
hands of subsequent historians for having found a friend in Mr. Grote ;
it may be doubted, however, whether the historian would not have
understood Cleon and his class better if he had spent nine years in
Congress instead of in Parliament. Perhaps nothing in Grote's works
has been so severely criticised as his defence of ostracism ; and yet it
was defended on nearly the same grounds by Aristotle, when it was
almost as much a thing of the past as it now is.
During the later years of his life, Mr. Grote was Vice-Chancellor of
the University of London, and one of the Trustees of the British Mu-
seum. It is understood that he was offered a peerage about two years
before his death, and declined it on the ground that he must devote the
remainder of his strength to his work on Aristotle. The long list of
honorary titles which have been gradually added to the simple " George
Grote, Esq.," which appears on the title-page of his History, show the
respect in which he was held by scholars at home and abroad ; and the
impressive funeral service at his grave in Westminster Abbey, in which
the highest officers of state appeared as mourners, was a fitting testi-
