OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 29
tice. Neither gained full credit for the discovery, because in neither
case was the matter made public till Mercer, finding himself not to be
in exclusive possession of the idea, joined with others and patented the
use of phosphates and arseniates for dunging.
In 1840, Dr. Dana, at the request of the city government of Low-
ell, made a careful examination of the various well-waters of the city,
with reference to their action on lead pipes. And his interest in this
important sanitary matter did not end with the presentation of his well-
digested report ; but for the sake of making generally known the in-
sidious danger then so little understood by physicians themselves, he
supervised the translation and publication of Tanquerel on Lead
Diseases, with valuable annotations, — the work of translation being
done chiefly by his daughters.
In 1851 the manufacture of rosin-oil was brought to his notice, and
he contributed much to the improvement of that branch of industry.
In 1860, Dr. Dana gave his library, containing many rare and val-
uable chemical books, to Harvard and Amherst Colleges.
From the excellence of what he published, we might have expected a
valuable work on general agricultural chemistry, had he been able to ful-
fil the partial promise made at the close of his prize Essay on Manures.
But in later years his time was occupied by the daily duties of his posi-
tion and the management of his farm, his health not always allowing
him to labor as actively in scientific matters as his ever-lively interest
would prompt. Dr. Dana was so quiet as well as accurate and
thorough in his work, and so concise in the expression of his thoughts,
that he could be fully appreciated by few. But his earnest devotion
to truth, the precision and extent of his knowledge, his high sense of
honor, and his conspicuous integrity of character, commanded the full-
est respect and confidence of all who knew him.
Professor William Sjiyth was born in Pittston, Maine, Feb-
ruary 2, 1797, but in his childhood his parents removed to Wiscasset,
which was his home till he entered college. The story of his early
struggles to obtain a liberal education, of his indomitable perseverance,
his self-sacrificing, independent spirit, and the success and reputation
of his subsequent life, furnishes most valuable lessons for the young.
His preparatory course for college he pursued alone, without regular
instruction, at intervals of work as a teacher ; the last two years at
Gorhani, Maine, where he was an assistant in the Academy with Rev.
Reuben Nason (Harv. 1802), an accomplished classical and mathe-
