OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 4, 1872. 447
in collating manuscripts in France, England, Germany, and Italy ; and
the present generation of classical scholars are, perhaps, too little aware
of the debt of gratitude which they owe to this quiet, indefatigable
worker. It would be easier to enumerate the Greek authors who were
not edited by Bekker than those who were. The shelves of every clas-
sical library will soon supply more names than any two other editors
could claim ; and the critical apparatus with which his editions of the
most important authors were enriched has been of more permanent
value than any exegetical commentary. We may mention his editions
of Plato (1816, 1817), of Thucydides (1821), of the Attic Orators (Ox-
ford, 1822, 1823 ; Berlin, 1823, 1824), of Herodotus (1826), of Aris-
tophanes (1829), of Aristotle (Berlin, 1831 - 1836 ; Oxford, 1837)^
and of Homer (1843, Iliad ; 1858, Iliad and Odyssey). We may men-
tion, among his editions of Latin authors, those of Livy (1829, 1830)
and of Tacitus (1831). In many cases, the labors of Bekker have
served, or are still serving, as a basis for later scholars to determine
the authentic text. A striking instance of this may be seen in Bekker's
later edition of Demosthenes (1854), in which a text is given which
differs on every page from that of the Oratores Attici (1823), but
which could never have been determined with such certainty without
the careful collation of fifteen manuscripts which the earlier work con-
tains. It needed the experience of the earlier edition to show Bekker
himself the true use of his immense material, and to determine the
principles of criticism on which the text of Demosthenes is now by uni-
versal consent established with as great certainty as we can ever hope
to attain in the text of a classic author.
Bekker seems never to have distinguished himself as a public lec-
turer at Berlin in any degree proportionate to his fame and merit as a
scholar. He preferred his more quiet work in the library to giving
instruction to classes ; and students who knew him only as a professor
(if any such there were) could never have appreciated his profound
scholarship and his critical sagacity. His dislike of long commentaries
and prolegomena often kept him utterly silent when he alone could have
spoken with authority ; and when he broke his rule, and wrote a note
or a preface, his brevity was often more tantalizing than his silence.
His conversation was marked by the same laconic brevity as his writ-
ings ; and the remark of an intimate friend, " Er schweigt in sieben
Sprachen," was one of the commonplaces of Berlin society. Notwith-
standing his retiring disposition, his company was eagerly sought by the
