448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
most cultivated scholars, and his hospitable house in Berlin was one of
their most frequent resorts. No scholar, perhaps, ever lived, at least
in Germany, who had stronger friends, greater admirers, or fewer ene-
mies than Immanuel Bekker.
Sir Roderick Impey Murchison died on the 22d of October, 1871,
in his eightieth year. In his death the world has lost one who, in the
popular estimation, not only shared with Lyell the sceptre of dominion
among British geologists, but held, conjointly with him, a sort of uni-
versal empire. The labors of both of these men have extended beyond
their country, and they have made not only Europe but America trib-
utary to their reputation. Of these two, Lyell still remains, and, as
his latest work, published in 1870, shows, retains unimpaired that clear-
ness of style and that rare philosophic acumen which have made his
masterpiece the Principia of modern geology, — a classic which future
generations will study with the same delight as the present. Very
different have been labors, and unlike the gifts of Murchison. Like
Lyell and his distinguished predecessors, the earlier prophets of the
Scottish school of geology, — Hutton and Playfair, — Murchison was a
Scot, and was proud of his ancient Celtic pedigree. It is characteristic
of the man, that, a few years since, he raised in the Highlands of his
native land a monument to one of his Jacobite ancestors, who had
sacrified fortune and life in the cause of the exiled Stuarts. The
father of Sir Roderick was a physician who, in the last century,
amassed a fortune in India, where he was a friend of the noted Elijah
Impey. Marrying soon after his return, he purchased an estate at
Tarradale in Rosshire, where his son, the subject of the present notice,
was born in 1792, and was early left an orphan by the death of his
father.
Like many others who have gained an honorable name in British
geology, Murchison had not the advantage of a university training; but,
after some years at a grammar-school in Durham, entered the army at
the age of sixteen, and was soon ordered to Spain, where he served
with distinction under Wellington ; carrying the colors of his regiment
in a desperate charge at Vimieira, and being left wounded on the field
at Corunna. At the close of the war, he left the service, a captain of
dragoons, and, returning to England, married in 1815. Possessed of
wealth and social position, he seems for the next few years to have
given himself to fox-hunting and the usual amusements of his class ;
