OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 4, 1872. 449
and he is said to have been first led to study by his wife's fondness for
natural history. Meeting in 1818 with Sir Humphry Davy, he was
induced, by his advice, to follow the lectures of the Royal Institution in
London : and shortly afterwards placed himself under the tuition of
Professor Richard Phillips, the well-known mineralogist. The atten-
tion of Murchison was soon drawn to the study of geology, then taking
shape from the labors of Cuvier, Buckland, and Conybeare ; but it was
not until 1825 that he made his first contribution to the science, in a
paper on the geology of parts of Sussex and the adjoining counties.
Already he had formed an accmaintance with William Smith, who, by
his careful studies of organic fossils and their stratigraphical relations,
had laid the foundations of British geology. It was also his great
good fortune to know Sedgwick, then commencing his laborious
career, who became for many years his friend and companion in
the field, and with whom, in 1827, he visited the Highlands of Scotland.
In 1828, Murchison accompanied Lyell in a journey to the volcanic dis-
tricts of central France, to northern Italy and the eastern Alps ; and to
the latter region he returned and labored with Sedgwick in 1829 and
1830. In 1831, he and Sedgwick began simultaneously, in different
districts, the task of discovering the geological succession of the older
fossiliferous rocks of Wales, of which they first gave the definite results
to the world in 1834 and 1835. The fruits of Murchison's labors in this
field were published in 1838-39, in two magnificent volumes, entitled
" The Silurian System," and dedicated to his friend Sedgwick. Mean-
while, in 1836 and 1837, the two friends labored together in the investi-
gation of the geology of Cornwall and Devonshire, and in 1839 extended
their studies to the Rhenish country and to the Hartz Mountains,
publishing conjointly their results.
In 1840, Murchison was invited to Russia by the Czar, and there
spent two or three years with De Verneuil and Von Keyserling in
investigating the geology of that country. The results of these labors,
extending over the greater part of European Russia, appeared in 1845,
as the joint production of Murchison and his fellow-workers. He sub-
sequently made repeated visits for the purpose of geological investiga-
tion to Scandinavia, Germany, and the Alps ; and in 1856, in conjunction
with Professor Nicoll, published a valuable geological map of Europe.
In 1854 appeared the first edition of his well-known book, Siluria ;
which, besides a revision of his work done twenty years before, in the
Silurian region of Great Britain, contained an excellent summary of
vol. viii. 57
