450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
the paleozoic geology of Europe. Of this volume four editions have
appeared, the last in 1867, much augmented, and in great part re-
written.
In 1855, on the death of Sir Henry de la Beche, Murchison was
named in his place as director-general of the Geological Survey of
the United Kingdom, a post which he resigned not long before his death.
His activity as a geological investigator still continued. From 1855
to 1860 he turned his attention towards the Highlands of Scotland ;
and in 1861 published, in connection with Professor Archibald Giekie, a
geological map of Scotland, with an introductory sketch, which is a valu-
able contribution to the literature of the subject, and sets forth briefly
the great differences of opinion which had arisen between Murchison
and his friend Professor Nicoll, as to the geological age of the crystalline
schists of the Scottish Highlands. Besides the works already noticed,
Murchison is said to have published during his long scientific career,
extending over forty-five years, more than one hundred memoirs by
himself on British and Continental geology, besides upwards of twenty
in connection with other investigators.
The secret of his scientific success is to be found, in great part, in
his methodical habits and his untiring industry. The observations of
each day in the field were written out fully at night, and, while in
town, the early hours of the morning were devoted to his literary
labors. Murchison's scientific services were such as could not fail to
attract attention and receive acknowledgment. To his scientific honors,
which culminated in 1868 in his election as one of the eight foreign
members of the French Academy of Sciences, were added titles and
distinctions from princes and governments, both at home and abroad,
among them the rank of Baronet of the United Kingdom. If these
well-earned social honors were highly prized, no less by the courtier
than the savant, it may be fairly said that he regarded them as a
homage paid through him to science, and that he strove to turn
them to good account in its service, as became his genial and kindly
nature.
In forming an estimate of his scientific character, it must be said
that his works show no such extensive acquaintance with geological
history and literature as those of Lyell. He was not learned in chem-
istry, mineralogy, nor lithology ; and, although skilfully availing himself
of the evidences furnished by organic fossils, owed his paleontological
determinations to others. His great merit as a geologist seems to have
