OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 4, 1872. 453
in 1867, being occupied with a collection of the memoirs, critical and
philosophical, which he had contributed at various times to the " Trans-
actions of the Royal Academy." As the result of his inquiries respect-
ing the nature and foundations of morality, he published a work en-
titled Naturrecht auf dem Grunde der Ethik, which appeared in a
second edition in 1868. Second only to the "Logical Researches,"
this book was the most thoughtful and original of his writings, and the
most characteristic of the man. Several smaller essays on the theory
of aesthetics need not be here enumerated.
In 1849, probably to his own astonishment, the city of Berlin elected
him as one of its members to the lower houee of the National As-
sembly. Here he generally voted with the conservative party, and
published an essay on the methods of voting (ilber die Methode bei
Abstimmungen). When the cause of the union of Germany was
abandoned, he resigned his seat in the house, in 1851, and went back
to those academic labors which occupied his whole life, with the ex-
ception of this brief political episode.
Henry Longueville Mansel, D. D., Dean of St. Paul's, died in
London, July 31, 1871. Though he had not completed his fifty-first
year, he had done the work of a long life. His publications were nu
merous and important, exerting manifest influence on the course of spec-
ulative thought not only in England, but wherever the moral sciences
had a home. As a scholar and a thinker in the various departments of
philosophy, he had hardly a rival on English ground after the death of
Sir William Hamilton. Equally eminent in logic, metaphysics, natural
and doctrinal theology, his writings never failed to attract notice and
command respect, though they often excited vehement controversy.
His Brampton Lectures on the " Limits of Religious Thought," first
published in 1858, when he was but thirty-eight years old, passed
through three editions in a twelvemonth, and have probably affected
the character of English thought in philosophy and theology more
than any single work which has appeared since the days of Bishop
Butler. In the earnest discussions which it immediately occasioned,
and in which such distinguished men as F. D. Maurice, James Mar-
tineau, Goldwin Smith, and John S. Mill had a prominent share, Mr.
Mansel appeared to great advantage. His stores of learning were im-
mense ; equally at home in Greek and German philosophy, in the
speculations of the Schoolmen, and in the writings of the fathers of the
