454 PROCEEDINGS OE THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
English Church, with almost unrivalled powers of clear statement and
forcible argumentation, and a great mastery of English style, he either
obtained an easy victory over his eminent opponents, or, even in the
judgment of their disciples and admirers, left them no cause for
triumph. Yet he was modest and candid in manner, an urbane and
dignified controversialist, disarming his assailants as much by his flow-
ing courtesy and frank acknowledgment of their claims to respect, as
by his dialectical skill and abundant erudition. Once only, when pro-
voked by continuous misrepresentations no less than by coarse invec-
tive and sneers, he retorted with terrible severity, and compelled his
opponent to make an apologetic defence. This was the only unpleasant
episode in Mr. Mansel's brilliant and prosperous career. His genial
manners, ready wit, and quick sympathy with others, made him a great
favorite in a large circle of acquaintances and friends. Even as a
politician — and he was for years a leader of the conservative party at
Oxford — he incurred no enmities and gave no personal offence. The
manliness and simplicity of his character allowed no hold for envy or
jealousy; and it cost him no effort to gain and preserve great personal
popularity.
The family of Dean Mansel was distinguished before his time both
in the universities and the Church. One member of it had been Mas-
ter of Trinity College, Cambridge, and another was Bishop of Bath
and Bristol. His father was Rector of Cosgrove, Northamptonshire,
a family living, where the late Dean was born on the 6th of October,
1820. Educated at Merchant Taylors' School, he became the leader
of his class at that institution, and thus, in 1839, acquired a Junior
Fellowship at St. John's College, Oxford, and was graduated four
years afterwards as Double First, or with the highest rank both in the
classical and the mathematical list. This success obtained for him a
tutorship in the College, and his lectures upon logic soon made
him famous in the University. In 1849 he published Aldrich's " Rudi-
ments of Logic," with an Introduction and copious Notes, of which Sir
William Hamilton observed that la sauce vaut mieux que le poisson.
The work passed rapidly through three editions, and made its author
known as one of the ablest and most learned logicians of the age.
Two years afterwards appeared his Prolegomena Logica, which was
based upon the philosophy of Kant, and contained the germs of all his
subsequent speculations. It was reprinted in this country in 1860,
from the second English edition, and has been a standard work in the
