OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 4, 1872. 455
University course of instruction upon metaphysics on both sides of the
Atlantic. In 1855, Mr. Mansel was appointed Waynflete Reader in
Moral and Metaphysical Philosophy, and four years afterwards, when
the recommendations of the University Commission took effect, he be-
came Waynflete Professor. Dr. Stanley's appointment as Dean of
Westminster having created a vacancy, Mr. Mansel was made Profes-
sor of Ecclesiastical History and a Canon of Christ Church ; and in
1869, he succeeded Dr. Milman as Dean of St. Paul's.
In philosophy, Dean Mansel is commonly regarded both as a fol-
lower of Kant and as a disciple of Sir William Hamilton. This opinion
does him great injustice, for though he adopts Kant's premises, it is for
the avowed purpose of refuting Kant's conclusions; and he departs
widely from Hamilton, both in his theoi'y of Causation, and in his ap-
plication of the Philosophy of the Conditioned to an exposure of the
illogical character of theological rationalism and dogmatism. His
modesty did not allow him to do justice to his own claims as an
original thinker and a philosophical theologian. He seems not to have
been ambitious to found a school, or to establish a new philosophical
system. His aim was rather to rebuke the pretensions and expose the
shallowness of those metaphysical infidels who have endeavored to re-
construct the doctrines either of Spinoza, Hume, or Hegel, for the
avowed purpose of destroying the basis of all religious faith and hope.
The ablest and most scholarly refutation of such pantheistic and
atheistic speculations which the philosophy of the present age has fur-
nished can be found in the several publications of Dean Mansel.
Vehemently assailed as these have been by the enemies of conser-
vatism in philosophy and theology, they have earned for their author
a high place in the list which contains the honored names of Clarke,
Cud worth, Butler, and Berkeley.
Charles Babbage was born in London, on the 26th of Decem-
ber, 1792, and, after a long life of nearly eighty years, died October
20, 1871. As a boy, his health was much weakened by violent
fevers, and, accordingly, he was sent to school near Exeter, with in-
structions that much study should not be required of him. Here he
early displayed the inquiring mind and ingenuity for which, in after
life, he was so eminent. In 1811 he entered Cambridge, and graduated
at the University in 1814. At this time the College was agitated by
a fierce controversy, whether it was right to add notes to the Bible,
