456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
each party forming societies and using every means to establish its
views. Babbage pai*odied it by forming the Analytical Society to
propagate the notation of Leibnitz, using the differential d in the cal-
culus, and consigning to perdition all who supported the heresy of the
dots of Newton. Being accused of infidelity, the members entitled the
first volume of their transactions " The Principles of Pure D-ism in
Opposition to the Dot-age of the University." They proposed to trans-
late a small work of Lacroix on the Calculus, maintaining that it was
so perfect that any comment was unnecessary.
In 1828, while in Rome, Babbage was elected Lucasian Professor
of Mathematics at Cambridge ; a chair first occupied by Sir Isaac
Newton. After filling it for eleven years, he resigned, finding even
the few duties it involved too much for his strength in addition to his
other work. He bitterly calls it the only honor he ever received in his
own country.
We now come to the great work of his life, and that by which he is
best known to the public, namely, the construction of an engine for
performing numerical computations. As early as 1813 he turned his
attention to this matter. One evening, when sitting in the room of the
Analytical Society, leaning his head on the table, another member,
coming in, called out, " Well, Babbage, what are you dreaming
about ? " To which he replied, " I am thinking that all these tables
(pointing to a table of logarithms) might be calculated by machinery."
In 1822 he completed his first Difference Engine, which was capa-
ble of working two orders of differences, and computing six places
of figures. It was highly approved by the Royal Society, and, in
accordance with their recommendation, the government appropriated
£1,500 for the construction of a large engine to compute eight orders
of differences to sixteen places of figures. For four years the work
was carried on uninterruptedly, but then various difficulties presented
themselves. As it appeared that the cost would be much greater than
was originally anticipated, the government was informed of the fact.
More money was obtained ; but, owing to the delay, the engineer who
had entire charge of the construction withdrew, taking with him all the
tools, the labor of years. A lawsuit ensued, but he was finally allowed
to retain them. The work now went on at intervals, but finally a new
idea occurred to Babbage of a machine whose powers should vastly
exceed those of the Difference Engine. He called it the Analytical En-
gine, and it is difficult to describe, in a short notice like the present,
