OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 4, 1872. 457
the wonderful powers of this machine. - It bore about the same rela-
tion to the other that algebra does to arithmetic, and, instead of merely
computing arithmetical tables, it was designed to deal with all forms of
analytical operations. Suppose we have any formula whatsoever from
which we wish to compute a series of numerical values. Two sets of
cards, like those of a Jacquard loom, are furnished the engine, the first
to direct the nature of the operations to be performed, and the second
to show which variables are to be acted upon. The numerical values
of the constants being placed on the wheels, it would compute and
print the results of the formula. If, during the operation, it wanted
some other quantity, as the logarithm of a given number, it would ring
a bell, and then stop. The attendant would find out what was wanted,
and, procuring the logarithmic card, would place it in the machine. The
latter would first see if it was correct, and, if not, would ring a louder
bell and again stop. It would express every number it used to fifty
places of figures, and would multiply two such numbers, giving a hun-
dred places in the product, in about a minute. The complication of
this instrument was such that it was impossible to represent it by or-
dinary drawings. Babbage, therefore, used a system of mechanical
notation which he had devised, and without which he claimed that it
could not have existed even upon paper.
In 1833, a portion of the Difference Engine was put together
and worked admirably, computing tables with two or three orders of
differences to sixteen places ; but, unfortunately, the new invention
seemed to supersede it, and finally, in 1842, the government, after
spending £17,000 on the project, refused to give any further aid.
Babbage now devoted his whole attention to the engrossing subject of
the Analytical Engine, and succeeded so far that, with sufficient
means, there seems to be little doubt that he would have attained all
that he claimed.
His health suffered severely from the intense mental strain to which
he was subjected in designing his engines, and, in consequence, he
travelled a great deal both in England and on the Continent. As he
seems to have availed himself of every opportunity to inspect in per-
son any novelty he met with, we find him in many strange positions,
and often narrowly escaping serious accidents. Thus, as a boy he was
nearly drowned while testing a swimming-machine he had constructed.
Again, in the Thames Tunnel, in company with Brunei, the water
breaks in, and, but for the presence of mind of the latter, both would
vol. viii. 58
