458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
probably have been drowned. Later he descends in a diving-bell, in
a coal mine is surrounded by explosive gases, enters the air-chamber
of a blast furnace, also an oven for baking moulds at a temperature of
265° F., and finally descends the crater of Vesuvius between two
eruptions which are taking place periodically at intervals of ten or
fifteen minutes. In the early days of railroads he made many ex-
periments on them ; and one Sunday morning, when just about to start
on an experimental train with thirty tons of pig-iron on board, nar-
rowly escaped a collision with Brunei, who came down the line on an
engine at the rate of fifty miles an hour.
He was elected a member of most of the principal scientific societies
of the world, so that he was able to write after his name the titles,
A. A. S., F. R. S., F. R. S. E., F. R. A. S., F. Stat. S., Hon. M. R.
I. A., M. C. P. S., Inst. Imp. (Acad. Moral.) Paris Corr., Reg.
OEcon. Boruss., Phts. Hist. Nat. Genev., Acad. Reg. Monac,
Hafn, Massil., et Divion., Socius, Acad. Imp. et Reg. Petrop.,
Neap., Brux., Patav., Georg. Floren., Ltncei Rom., Mut., Phi-
lomath. Paris Soc. Corr., etc. His writings are somewhat volumi-
nous. Among the most noted are the following. That " On a Method
of Expressing by Signs the Action of Machinery" is a descrip-
tion of his Mechanical Notation. A good example of his talent for
satire is a scathing criticism of the Royal Society, entitled " Reflections
on the Decline of Science in England, and on some of its Causes."
His most successful work was the " Economy of Manufactures and
Machinery," which went through many editions, and was translated
into German, French, Italian, and Spanish. To these must be added
the " Ninth Bridgewater Treatise," and his autobiography, " Passages
from the Life of a Philosopher."
As often happens with men of genius, when once interested in a sub-
ject he would devote his utmost powers to it, however trifling its im-
portance ; as, for instance, in reading ciphers, picking locks, and de-
vising automata for playing games of skill. Or, again, when annoyed
by street musicians, he displayed the same perseverance in prosecuting
them as when urging the importance of his inventions on the govern-
ment. As his engines have not been, and probably never will be, com-
pleted, many, doubtless, regard the life of Babbage as a failure. Yet
in his own department he stood unequalled, and to him belongs the
credit of devising the most complicated piece of machinery ever
planned by the human mind.
