30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
raatical teacher, whose counsel and aid he always gratefully ac-
knowledged. He entered Junior at Bowdoin, September, 1820 ; and,
though from late hours of preceding years over Greek and Latin he
was compelled to study by another's eyes (his lessons being read to
him by his chum), he graduated, 1822, with the first honors of an able
class. In 1823 he received appointment as Proctor and Instructor in
Greek at his own College, and, soon after, as Tutor in Mathematics and
Natural Philosophy.
Thus called to a new department of instruction, he detected in him-
self and revealed to others the peculiar talent — it may be said, original
power — which has given him so much of a name, and reflected so much
reputation on his Alma Mater. The predilection of the student had
been decidedly for Greek. His success, however, rarely equalled, as a
teacher of Algebra, excited quite an enthusiasm in his classes, and thus
was designated the eminently fit person to relieve Professor Cleaveland,
who had held that department from the opening of the College, and
had added Chemistry and Mineralogy to the list of his multifarious
duties. In 1825 he became Adjunct Professor of Mathematics and
Natural Philosophy, and in 1828 full Professor.
With the deep enthusiasm of his nature he at once gave himself to
the study of the French systems ; read the Mecanique Celeste, and
soon began the work of preparing text-books for his classes. In 1830
he published an Algebra, which was among the first in this country in
which the French method was employed. This passed through several
editions and then gave place to two separate works, the Elementary
and the Larger Algebra. There followed, in rapid succession, Treatises
on Plane Trigonometiy and its Applications, on Analytical Geometry,
and the Calculus, of this last a second edition appearing in 1859.
A man of quick sensibility to questions of right and wrong, of deep
religious principle, and of ardent and indefatigable nature, he could
not be indifferent to any worthy object of philanthropy or of public in-
terest. His enthusiasm was fired by the struggles of the Poles for
national life, and then by the Hungarian Revolution. He studied the
strategy, was familiar with every phase, political or military, of those
movements, and with the qualities of the leaders. As an earnest
Christian man, he could not but feel a lively concern in the case of the
Cherokees in our country, as a great question involving national justice
and honor. He early took decided position in the slavery discussion,
and, besides writing in the public press, prepared some of the ablest
