460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
response to a prize-question offered by the Tubingen Medical Faculty.
In it he divined the real nature of the movements which coiling stems
and tendrils execute, as has recently been clearly made out. In the
following year appeared his inaugural dissertation on the Pores of the
Cellular Tissue of Plants, in which his later views and discoveries,
respecting the structure, growth, and component parts of cells, as sub-
sequently developed, are already foreshadowed. About this time his
choice was made for a scientific rather than a medical career ; and he
went to Munich to prosecute more advantageously his favorite studies.
Here the late Von Martius and Zuccarini were his botanical masters,
and Agassiz, Karl Schimper, Braun, and Engelmann his fellow-students.
Here he made those researches upon the anatomy of ferns, cycads,
and especially of palms, — the latter a most important contribution to
Martius's great work upon palms, the former also contributed to another
work by Martius, — which first displayed his remarkable talents for his-
tological investigation, to which his subsequent scientific life was mainly
devoted. His merits were promptly recognized by a call to the Im-
perial Botanic Garden of St. Petersburg, as assistant to its director,
Dr. Fischer, and to the chair of physiology in the Academy of Berne.
He accepted the latter in 1832, and occupied it until 1835. Then,
upon the death of Schubler, he returned to Tiibingen, accepted the
professorship of botany in its High School, in which chair and in that
of Tubingen University the rest of his life was passed. Invitations to
more prominent and lucrative positions, as, for example, to the botanical
chair at Berlin University when vacated by the death of the veteran
Link, were unhesitatingly declined. Although he published numerous
(about ninety) special papers or articles, most of them important and
timely, and some of great pith and moment, he resolutely declined to
bring out any general work. His Mikrographie (1846) and his
" Principles of the Anatomy and Physiology of the Vegetable Cell " are
his only writings which may claim to be such. The latter, an admira-
ble and still invaluable treatise, appeared as an article in Rudolf Wag-
ner's Cyclopaedia of Physiology, but is best known to English readers
in its separate form, in a translation made by the late Professor Henfrey,
with the author's sanction, issued by Van Voorst in 1852. A year
or two later it was for a time understood, to the great satisfaction of
botanists, that Mohl had agreed to take a prominent part in the pro-
duction of a general Manual of the Anatomy and Physiology of
Plants ; but his promise was soon withdrawn. For thirty years he was
