OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 4, 1872. 463
ration he could have made for his great scientific career. And here
again, doubtless, he owed something to a father's example. The world
has been so dazzled by the brilliant results of Sir William Herschel's in-
comparable powers of vision, his bold scientific imagination, and his mag-
nificent instruments, as not to see that he had also been a musician who
entranced fashionable audiences in the theatre and concert-room and in
oratorios, and that he studied algebra and geometry in order that he
might master Robert Smith's " Harmonics, or the Philosophy of Musical
Sounds." Arago has recalled from oblivion the fact that in 1779 Her-
schel gave the solution to a difficult problem on the vibrations of a loaded
cord, which may be seen in Leybourn's edition of the " Ladies' Mathe-
matical Diary." The younger Herschel, in the eulogy which he pro-
nounced upon his worthy compeer, Francis Baily, makes this confession
in regard to the state of science in England at the beginning of the pres-
ent century : " Mathematics were at the last gasp, and astronomy nearly
so." The ponderous notation of fluxions, which required the giant arm
of a Newton to wield successfully, was retained at the English universi-
ties after science had outgrown it, and the finer methods of the Conti-
nental mathematicians were ignored. Herschel did his part, as student
and graduate, to inaugurate the revolution which finally culminated in
such mathematicians as Hamilton and MacCullagh, Sylvester and
Gregory, Boole and Cayley, Tait, Adams, Airy, and Thompson. The
president of the British Association in 1871 (a most competent
witness) said : " In respect to pure mathematics, Sir John Herschel did
more, I believe, than any other man, to introduce into England the
powerful methods and the valuable notation of modern analysis."
Herschel was one of the first to recognize the value of Hamilton's
quaternions, which he described as a " Cornucopia from which, turn it
how you will, something valuable is sure to fall." If Herschel had de-
voted his life to the development of the pure mathematics, as he seemed
at first inclined to do, he might have taken rank with the highest in that
field of investigation. His earliest publications were upon this subject,
and he frequently returned to his first love, as late even as 1850.
There is no occasion to regret that a mind of a high order, and
thoroughly imbued with the mathematical spirit, should have been
transplanted into the domains of geology, chemistry, physics, and astron-
omy, for there were fields there already white and waiting for a harvest,
and only a mathematician could be the reaper. All of these sciences
aspire to that high estate which some have already reached, when
