OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 4, 1872. 465
ambitious of reaffirming the discoveries of his father in the northern
hemisphere, and of completing them by an independent survey of the
southern stars and nebulae. For this purpose, he was first associated
with Sir James South, an amateur astronomer of immense zeal and am-
ple means. The union was a happy one for both, and for astronomy,
inasmuch as it placed at Herschel's disposal instruments of the first class,
and secured to the work which had been undertaken the advantage of
a highly gifted and well-trained mind. While this partnership lasted,
observations and measurements were made on 380 double or triple stars,
and promptly published.
Soon after this, we find Herschel established in the spot of greatest
interest to all astronomers, and to him above all others, namely, in the
old observatory at Slough. Provided with a reflecting telescope of 18
inches aperture, in the construction of which he had the advice of his
father, he began to sweep the sky for double stars and nebulae, as his
father had done before him, and with equal success, though he missed
the valuable assistance which his father had enjoyed in Miss Caroline
L. Herschel. In spite of this disadvantage, and without the mechani-
cal appliances which Struve enjoyed, and the still greater conveniences
which both would have found in the chronographic method of re-
cent times, catalogue after catalogue of double stars, clusters, and
nebulae, many of which had escaped the piercing eye of the father,
poured into the volumes of the Royal Society and the Astronomical So-
ciety, and Slough became once more a centre of intense intellectual ac-
tivity. Herschel was now more than forty years old. And if he had
been less ambitious, or less courageous, or less devoted to astronomy, he
might have been content with the laurels already won. But he knew that
there was a new world of astronomy to be conquered in the southern
hemisphere, — a zone of more than fifty degrees encircling the south
pole, no star of which could ever shine in his telescope at Slough,, however
penetrating. Now and then an astronomer, like La Caille, had been
despatched thither for a specific purpose and for a brief residence, and
observatories, more or less permanent, had been established at the Cape
of Good Hope and at Paramatta ; but no one, before Herschel, had
dreamed of making an exhaustive survey of those strange skies, of
which the eloquent pen of Humboldt had depicted, and possibly ex-
aggerated, the beauties. The motives and the object of Herschel in ban-
ishing himself, with his family and assistants, for four years, to the Cape
of Good Hope, are best described in his own words. After alluding to
vol. viii. 59
