466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
what he and his father had done at Slough, he continues : " Having so far
succeeded to my wish (the places of the objects thus determined proving,
on the whole, satisfactory), and having by this practice acquired sufficient
mastery of the instrument employed (a reflecting telescope of 14^ inches
clear aperture and 20 feet focus on my father's construction), and of the
delicate process of polishing the specula ; being, moreover, strongly in-
vited by the peculiar interest of the subject, and the wonderful nature
of the objects which presented themselves in the course of its prosecution,
I resolved to attempt the completion of a survey of the whole surface
of the heavens, and, for this purpose, to transport into the other hemi-
sphere the same instrument which had been employed in this, so as to
give a unity to the results of both portions of the survey, and to render
them comparable with each other."
Herschel sailed from England on November 13, 1833, with his family
and instruments ; and on his arrival at the Cape, January 15, 1834, he
selected, as the site of his temporary observatory, Feldhausen, situated
a little to the southwest of the Royal Observatory of the Cape. In a
month his instruments were placed in position and ready for work.
After luxuriating for a few nights, with laudable curiosity, on some ex-
traordinary objects in the constellation of the Cross and of Argo, he be-
gan his regular sweeps of the southern sky on the 5th of March. When
he had left the Cape, a granite monument was erected by friends, to
commemorate the charming spot, at the base of Table Mountain, where
his observatory stood. Few astronomers will have the privilege of see-
ing it. But they have the greater privilege of beholding always the
nobler monument to the family name of Herschel, in the magnificent
quarto volume, of nearly five hundred pages, illustrated with seventeen
plates, which bears the august title, " Results of Astronomical Observa-
tions made during the years 1834, 5, 6, 7, 8, at the Cape of Good
Hope ; being the completion of a telescopic survey of the whole sur-
face of the visible heavens, commenced in 1825," and dedicated to the
late Hugh, Duke of Northumberland, by whose munificence the work
was published.
A bare enumeration of the subjects of the seven chapters of this
volume will give some idea of the variety and severity of the labor
crowded into Herschel's few years of residence at the Cape. Chapter
I. records that which energized the whole enterprise, namely, the regis-
tration of the nebulae and clusters of the southern sky. Of these, 1708
are registered, most of them new to astronomy. Others, not wholly
