OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 4, 1872. 467
invisible in the northern observatories, were carefully re-examined by
Herschel from his more favorable point of view. The Magellanic
Clouds, that miscellaneous collection of individual objects in strange com-
panionship, were dissected, and found to be composed, the one of 919
and the other of 244 distinct stars, nebulte, and clusters. Chapter II.
tells us that his catalogue of double stars, which had reached 3346 in
the northern hemisphere, had grown by his southern contributions to
5542. Chapter III. marks the indomitable perseverance of the astron-
omer, who found relief from severer toil in determining the relative
brightnesses of many of the southern stars. Neither did Herschel
omit, as we learn from Chapter IV., to apply to the southern stars and
the southern galaxy the system of gauging, instituted by his father, to
discover the comparative popidousness of the sky in different spots ;
on which, as upon a scientific basis, and not, as others had done before
him, by mere speculation, he ventured an outlook into the structure of
the universe. Probably an astronomer less zealous than Herschel
would not have allowed the opportunity to slip of observing a comet as
remarkable as Halley's, at its last appearance in 1835. But as we turn
over the pages of Chapter V. of the Results, and rehearse the numer-
ous observations therein recorded, and examine the admirable delinea
tions of the changing phases of the comet, comparable in excellence
with those which Schwabe and Bessel made in Europe, and ponder
upon Herschel's weighty discussion of the physical condition of comets
(better revealed by this comet than by any other except Donati's), we
cannot but congratulate science on the well-timed visit of comet and
astronomer. The two remaining chapters record observations on the sat-
ellites of Saturn and the solar spots. No one knew better than Herschel
the need of new evidence for computing the orbits, or even verifying the
existence, of these remote satellites ; and the course of recent investiga-
tions into solar influences has given an importance to all good observa-
tions on the sun's spots greater than any one could have anticipated.
Herschel realized, no doubt, that the new views of the celestial scenery
which he had enjoyed, the intellectual gratification which he had re-
ceived from his discoveries, and the filial duty that he had discharged
to astronomy, were an over-payment for whatever he had sacrificed by
a self-imposed banishment' from his native land. Nevertheless, he had
given to astronomers a bright example of the victory which a passion
for truth may gain over present comfort and social enjoyment, and an
example which others have been ambitious to imitate. His return to
England was, therefore, as it deserved to be, an ovation.
