OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 4, 1872. 469
published writings having been first gathered and printed in an easily
accessible form as recently as 1866. We have to thank the German
and French translators for rescuing this treatise of Herschel on Light
from the bulky and unwieldy volumes of the Encyclopaedia, and print-
ing it in a separate and convenient form. Herschel wrote two volumes
for the Cabinet Cyclopaedia of Dr. Lardner. " The Preliminary Dis-
course on the Study of Natural Philosophy " brought him into no-
tice before a larger public as a writer and a philosopher. The objects
and the methods of science, the meaning of natural law, and, of course,
the analysis of phenomena and the process of generalization, the util-
ity, dignity, and pleasures of science, are elegantly stated and vividly
illustrated. This discourse was translated into German. The treatise
on Astronomy, first published in the Cyclopaedia in 1833 (and also
translated into German), was expanded in 1849 into the " Outlines of
Astronomy," which has run through ten editions. In this work, Her-
schel has handled skilfully the subject of planetary perturbations,
without the use of the higher mathematics, and has given to the gen-
eral reader imperfect glimpses of what must otherwise have been a
sealed book to him ; and everywhere the language is as grand as the
themes of which it treats. In 1859 the " Outlines " was translated into
Chinese.
Herschel did not disdain the task of writing for the people as well as
for men of science. Three articles which he furnished to the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica, on Meteorology, on Physical Geography, and on the
Telescope, have been republished in separate volumes. After reaching
the advanced age of threescore years and ten, he delivered a few lec-
tures to a village audience, and then printed them, with other similar
productions, in " Good Words." In 1868, they were collected into asmall
volume, with the title " Familiar Lectures on Scientific Subjects." But
this must have been the amusement of his leisure hours, if it is possible
to suppose that a man who did constantly so much heavy work had any
leisure. How he refreshed himself after the midnight watches at the
observatory, or amid the sterner labors of his study, all may know who
will examine the volume issued in 1857 with the title, " Essays from the
Edinburgh and Quarterly Reviews, with Addresses and other Pieces."
These other pieces were poems, original or translated, while the Re-
views and Addresses were upon the loftiest themes in science and phi-
losophy, and abound in passages of magnificent diction, profound
thought, and sublime eloquence.
