470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
The last years of Herschel's life, when he seemed to have retired
from active service, were enriched with the fruits of his intellect and
imagination. He is still poet, philosopher, mathematician, physicist, and
astronomer, to his latest hour. Though his translation of the Iliad of
Homer may give him a place as a classical scholar by the side of Pope,
Blackie, Dart, Lord Derby, or our own Bryant, we can fancy the
happiest moments of his life to have been when, in 1864, after having
tardily published the seventh catalogue of observations at Slough, he
gave to the world his one hundred and thirty-fourth scientific paper,
namely, a highly elaborated catalogue of the five thousand and seventy-
nine nebula? which had been observed by his father, himself, or any
other astronomer : or again when, undaunted by the growing infirmi-
ties of age, he labored at the stupendous task of framing a universal
catalogue, with descriptions, of the ten thousand double stars hitherto
registered, bequeathing the manuscript to loving hands, so as to secure
its speedy completion and publication.
We may not forget the services which Herschel rendered to his coun-
try as Master of the Mint for five years, as President of the Royal As-
tronomical Society, and of the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, or by the Instructions which he edited for the Board
of Admiralty as a Manual of Scientific Inquiry, and to which he con-
tributed his quota. We may also allude to the reports he made in
behalf of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observatories established
throughout the British Empire, and his efforts to establish a uniform
standard of length. Fired by the example of Humboldt, he kindled
his own country into a like enthusiasm in the study of Terrestrial Mag-
netism, which he watched and guided for twenty years, nerving his
coworkers to undertake a first, second, and even third, magnetic crusade.
The tendency, and almost the necessity, of modern scientific study is
strongly in favor of an exclusive devotion to some narrow specialty.
Dissipation of energy is conditioned on superficiality, and the universal
genius is regarded with suspicion. Nevertheless, the example of Her-
schel is an exhortation and an encouragement to the most liberal cul-
ture, by showing how many things can be done, and done well, when
length of days, indomitable industry, and good natural endowments are
united. It is to the credit of humanity and of science that the merits
of Herschel were felt in every home, and met with all that public rec-
ognition and honor which academies and societies are able to bestow.
It is a pleasant thought that this great and successful man of science had
