OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 9, 1868. 33
in the manufacture of glass for telescopes, and his valuable report
upon the methods of manufacturing glass ; in general and molecular
Physics, we remember his labors and discoveries on the limit to
evaporation, on the temperature of vapors, and their solidification, on
their passage through capillary tubes, on the pneumatic paradox of
Clement Desormes, on vegetation ; in Practical Science, we are indebted
to him for suggestions, experiments, inventions, or discoveries on ven-
tilation, illumination, fumigation, gunnery, on india-rubber and the al-
loys of steel, on the prevention of explosions in collieries, on the ex-
tinguishment of blazing houses, on sustaining a prolonged breath in a
dangerous atmosphere, and on the false pretensions of spirit-rappings
and table-turnings.
This meagre enumeration, in which years of intellectual activity are
registered in as many lines, indicates the exceeding great versatility of
Faraday's genius. Nevertheless, Chemistry and Electricity were his
favorite if not his absorbing pursuits, from the beginning to the end of
the half-century which his discoveries have made so brilliant. And of
these two Chemistry served him, but Electricity commanded hi in. It
is impossible in this place to specify, much less to analyze, th.e varied
researches of Faraday in chemistry and electricity.
In 1820 he described two new compounds of chlorine and carbon.
" The discovery of these two compounds," says our Foreign Associate,
De la Rive, " filled up an important gap in the history of chemistry."
In 1825, Faraday discovered benzole, to which, says Hoffman, " we
virtually owe our supply of aniline, with all its magnificent progeny of
colors."
In 1820, Oersted set up one of those milestones which stand forever
in the history of science, by his inauguration of electro-magnetism. Many
pressed into the ranks to pursue the new discovery to its consequences,
and Faraday among the foremost. He adapted the reaction between
the current of electricity in the conductor and the magnet to the pro-
duction of a continuous revolution, — a stupendous novelty then, without
a parallel in mechanics nearer than the heavenly bodies. Even Am-
pere's sweeping generalization of the electro-dynamic action had not
anticipated such a result, although it was afterwards able to explain it.
In 1831 the scientific interest which had been monopolized by
electro-magnetism was transferred to a younger sister, magneto-elec-
tricity. Magneto-electricity was a corollary from Faraday's new dis-
covery of voltaic induction, when the latter was viewed in the light of
VOL. VIII. 5
