500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
tory buildings have been erected and equipped, where before that time
was a desolate and waste expanse of broken ground, almost untrodden,
except by prairie-dogs, foxes, and iguanas. A thorough survey of the
entire southern heavens has been made, comprising a determination of
the positions and brightness of all stars to a limit below the seventh
magnitude inclusive, and the whole work then repeated for the two-
fold purpose of detecting errors and of recognizing any important
changes in the stars themselves. This revision will in all probability
have been completed before the close of 1872. Standards of magni-
tude have for the first time been established for each tenth of a unit,
as far as the eighth magnitude, throughout the circumference of the
heavens, and selected in that portion of the Northern Hemisphere
which has an equal meridian altitude for this observatory and for the
average of northern ones. A thorough revision of the constellations
of this hemisphere has been accomplished, and definite boundaries
established, which, if accepted by astronomers, .as I have reason to be-
lieve will be the case, will put an end to the confusion that has hitherto
existed. The zone observations for a Southern Catalogue have been
organized and are now going on systematically through the whole re-
gion between the Tropic of Capricorn and the eightieth degree of South
Declination, the positions of nearly seven thousand stars having been
already determined. Three campaigns for longitude determinations by
telegraph have been carried out with the view of improving the map
of the continent ; and when the pending determination of the longitude
between this observatory and the National Observatory of Chile shall
have been completed, the positions of many points in South America
will be known with a precision <puite comparable to that with which the
principal points in the United States have been established.
Furthermore, a system of meteorological observations is now organ-
izing, as a national establishment, intended to embrace all portions of
this Republic from Bolivia to the Straits of Magellan, and from the
Andes to the Pacific. Funds have been voted for furnishing the need-
ful instruments to all who are able and willing to carry on the observa-
tions, and the whole organization, although under my charge for the
present, is made independent of the observatory. Thus there is reason
to hope that the strange and hitherto almost unknown meteorological
peculiarities of this singular region will within a few years become
well understood.
I yet indulge the hope that it may be within my power, in some
