OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JANUARY 29, 1873. 503
of the Academy. The final result, corrected for Personal
Equation, is : —
Difference of longitude between Cambridge and Dnxbury . . l m 50 s .205 ± .022
Difference of longitude between Duxbury and Brest . . 4 h 24 m 43 s .277 ± .047
Difference of longitude between Cambridge and Brest . . 4 h 26 m 33 s .482 ± .052
Professor J. P. Cooke described a method he is employing
for the manipulation of hydric sulphide.
The manipulation of hydric. sulphide in a large laboratory has al-
ways been a difficult problem, and the inconveniences arising from the
use of this reagent, in the state of gas, are so great, that, when a
class of forty or fifty students are working with it at once, the nuisance
becomes almost unbearable. When dissolved in water, however, this
reagent gives as little trouble or annoyance as any other ; but, as ordi-
narily prepared, the solution is so weak that the substance under exam-
ination is deluged with water before the required excess of the reagent
has been added. This objection can be wholly overcome by dissolving
the gas under pressure, and drawing off the solution from a siphon
like soda-water, and, in any laboratory where water is supplied under
pressure, such a supersaturated solution can be very readily prepared
with a very simple apparatus, which may be mounted in the following
manner.
We use for the purpose the common green glass bottles in which
acids are usually sold by the druggists, only taking care to select strong
bottles with a well-rounded neck about one and a quarter inches in
diameter. Let us designate by A, B, and C three two-quart bottles
of this description, and by D a similar but larger bottle, having a
capacity of two gallons. In A, the gas is generated from ferrous sul-
phide, water, and sulphuric acid, in the ordinary way. We pass the
gas from A, first through a wash bottle filled with moistened sponge,
and through the distilled water with which the bottles B and C are
about three fourths filled, the gas bubbling up as usual from glass tubes
leading to the bottom of each bottle, and the excess, not absorbed by
the water, passing forward to the large bottle C, which serves as a
gasometer. All these bottles are fitted as tightly as possible with rub-
ber stoppers, through which pass the stout glass tubes that conduct the
gas. Through the stopper of D pass three such tubes : the first which
brings the unabsorbed gas from C opens at the top of the bottle ; the
second is connected by. a rubber hose with a water faucet, and reaches
