504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
to the bottom of the bottle ; the third serves simply as a vent. The
bottles B and C are fitted each with two tubes, one to deliver the gas
at the bottom of the bottle, and the second, opening from the top, to
conduct away the excess. The gas generator A requires only an exit
tube, and lastly the wash bottle is fitted in the ordinary way, save only
that we pack it with well-washed sponge, by which the gas is more
effectually purified than when it bubbles through a liquid. We use
glass tubes of about j\ inch bore, and rubber hose of the same calibre,
but very stout, and made of pure vulcanized rubber. The rubber stop-
pers are cut from what we call stopper cord, which, as well as the hose,
is made by the Boston Belting Company, corner Chauncy and Bedford
Streets, Boston. In' mounting the apparatus, we interpose two or three
feet of hose between the several parts, so as to have sufficient free-
dom of motion to enable us to shake up the water with the gas in the
bottles B and C. Over the ends of the tubes from each of the bottles
B and C we stretch permanently two rubber connectors, cut from the
hose just described, and depend wholly on pressure taps, acting on
these connectors, for closing the bottles. While charging the water
with gas the connectors are united to the hose by short lengths of
glass tube, and subsequently the solution is drawn off through a bent
glass tube slipped into one of the same connectors. The bottles, thus
arranged, serve the same purpose as a soda-water siphon. The rubber
stoppers soon become cemented to the glass, and are never removed,
the bottles being filled, as they are vented, through the glass tubes.
A rubber connector with a pressure tap must also be provided for the
vent tube of the large bottle C, which serves, as we have said, to re-
ceive the unabsorbed gas. In charging the water, we leave the vent of
this gasometer open until the air is expelled from the apparatus, and
then connect the vent tube by a rubber hose with a manometer, which,
if a common steam manometer is not at hand, can be easily extempo-
rized with a glass tube and a little mercury. We now watch the pres-
sure, and when it becomes equal to the water pressure on our faucet,
we turn on the water head. On first opening the faucet, it is necessary
to watch the process very closely, lest the water should be forced back
into the generator, but the apparatus -soon adjusts itself to the new
conditions, and the absorption goes on as regularly as before. The un-
absorbed gas is of course stored in the bottle C, and gradually pushes
back the water, with which at first it is three fourths filled, into the
supply pipe ; but only a small portion of the gas is lost, and with the
