OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JANUARY 29, 1873. 505
apparatus of the dimensions described, a two-gallon bottle is large
enough to hold all the excess which escapes before the water is satu-
rated. To insure perfect saturation, the water in each of the bottles
B and C should be frequently shaken up with the gas, especially
towards the end of the process.
We constantly use an apparatus mounted as above, with a water-
head of about thirty feet. It would undoubtedly stand a much greater
pressure, but a solution saturated under a pressure of two atmospheres
is as strong as is desirable. For example, one hundred cubic centime-
tres of such a solution is more than sufficient to precipitate a gramme
of antimony. For saturating four litres of water in an apparatus of
the dimensions described above, the charge should be about 200
grammes of ferrous sulphide, about two litres of water, and 288
grammes, or 160 cubic centimetres, of sulphuric acid. As this
amount of acid water, when at a low temperature, is insufficient to dis-
solve all the ferrous sulphate formed, we place the generator in front
of a hot-air register. In dismounting the apparatus, we close first the
inlet tube of the bottle B, and then remove the generator and wash
bottle ; but care must be taken to relieve the pressure on the generator
very slowly. Otherwise the escaping gas will cause the acid solution
of ferrous sulphate, left in the bottle, to boil over.
By the use of a solution of hydric sulphide in place of the gas, the
consumption of ferrous sulphide in our large laboratory has been
reduced twenty-fold ; and when it is remembered that by the previous
waste the air of the room was constantly poisoned, and the waste-
pipes clogged with the undissolved sulphide of iron, carelessly washed
into the sinks, the advantage will be appreciated. The gain in those
processes of quantitative analysis where hydric sulphide is required is
hardly less important. The bubbling of a gas through a liquid inevi-
tably entails loss, which can be wholly avoided by using the solution ;
and, by regulating the pressure on the tap, the reagent can be delivered
in the proportions required, and at the exact point where it is wanted.
Complete precipitation, moreover, is effected in a few minutes ; and, if
the liquid is constantly stirred as the reagent slowly flows in, the
precipitate will settle in a condition admirably adapted for filtering.
Lastly, the separation of sulphur, which is often so excessive when the
gas is employed, is diminished, if not prevented, by using the reagent
in solution.
VOL. VIII. 64
