OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: FEBRUARY 11, 1873. 507
Professor J. M. Crafts read a paper on " The Volumetric
Analysis of Iron Ore."
Professor E. N. Horsford read a communication on " The
Columnar Structure of Ice."
Dr. Charles Pickering continued his remarks, made at a
previous meeting, on the forming of the earth's crust as wit-
nessed in a congealing lava-lake within the great crater on
Hawaii : —
On the floor of this and of the terminal crater of Mauna Roa (both
of which on crossing he found essentially alike), sulphur occurs in the
form of invisible fumes, impeding respiration, and in little heaps of
comminuted dry powder ; while above, around the brink, the sulphur
comes through steam-vents forming regular " fumaroles," and is all
beautifully crystallized ; water in the one instance being accessible, in
the other not.
Might not the similar little heaps of dry, white, tasteless powder on
the floor of these craters have become some familiar mineral, could
they have obtained water of crystallization ?
The only crystalline mineral he could discover in the Hawaiian lavas
was chrysolite, pea-like, and, though nowhere abundant, universally dif-
fused ; in some instances attached to a thread of the capillary obsidian,
and therefore already formed when it reached the atmosphere ; more
frequently embedded in solid lava, a foot, perhaps, from atmospheric
contact. Chrysolite occurs also in the neighboring Mauna Kea con-
glomerate, but in little patches, and not in detached crystals ; and espe-
cially deserves attention from its presence in meteorites recently an-
nounced, presenting unexpected analogy with the internal constituents
of our own planet.
When the accumulation of liquid lava becomes so great that the walls
of the crater give way, a portion is sometimes squeezed through cracks
a thousand feet upward upon the very brink. From the great crater
the escaping lava splits the rock before it on its way down to the sea,
in some instances leaving behind a squeezed-up portion here and there
upon its track.
In the eruption a few months before his visit, the lava, after thirty
miles' progress in the above-described manner, coming out upon the
surface, poured into the sea. The consequence was a sand-storm, un-
approachable for some days. When this cleared up, the new lava was
