508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
found to have encroached upon the sea, and on one side there was a
sand beach half a mile long, — to the ordinary observer not differing
from other sea beaches ; but the mineralogist would note intermingled
pea-like grains of chrysolite. These seemed more abundant than else-
where, owing, perhaps, to greater coarseness under the winnowing ; just
such beaches are found encircling Tahiti, where there is no active
volcano.
The great crater sometimes has silent eruptions ; the lava, after
accumulating to the required limit, drains off and disappears ; and a
vessel arriving will perhaps report having passed through quantities
of dead fish floating. The escaping lava continues splitting its way
under the sea, and the question arises, Does it eventually manufacture
granite or other crystalline rock at the bottom of the, sea ? The ele-
ments are all present, as appears from Dr. C. T. Jackson's published
analyses of the Hawaiian lavas, — the silica, alumina, sodium, — and in
about the proper proportions.
In considering the intricate limited area of crystalline rock, abutting
often on deep-sea fossils in sedimentary rock, and such fossils occurring
on the crest and amid the snow of the Andes, we shall have to con-
clude that every foot of what is now land was once the bottom of the
ocean. On the other hand, a portion of what is now the bottom of the
ocean was once land, as appears from coal-beds in Rhode Island and
elsewhere extending underneath the sea-margin.
Professor H. P. Bowditch made a communication on " The
Lymph Spaces in Fasciae, with a new Method of Injection."
The lymph spaces existing between the tendinous fibres of fascise,
and the connection of these spaces with lymphatic vessels, have been
well described and figured by Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel in their
monograph on this subject.*
The researches of Dr. Genersich f have shown that the fascia?, in
virtue of this structure, play a very important part in keeping up the
flow of lymph through the lymphatic vessels. His first experiment was
as follows : A piece of fascia was removed from the leg of a dog, and
tied over the mouth of a small glass funnel with the inner side (i. e.
the side next to the muscles) uppermost. A few drops of a turpentine
* Die Lymphgefasse der Fascicn und Schuen. Leipzig. 1872.
t Arbeiten aus der physiologischen Aushalt zu Leipzig. V Jahrgaug, p. 53.
