510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
dry, still stretched upon the neck of the bottle. In drying, the tendinous
fibres seem to shrink together, causing a dilatation of the spaces between
them, in consequence of which the extravasated fluid is sucked onwards
into the finest lymph spaces. In this way two, three, or even four
layers of lymph spaces lying between as many different layers of ten-
dinous fibres may be clearly demonstrated. The dried fascia may be
mounted in Canada balsam between glass plates. The accompanying
drawing by Dr. Quincy represents the appearance of the fascia under a
low magnifying power.
Mr. E. N. Horsford read the following paper upon the
Cause of the Columnar Structure of Decaying Ice : —
It is a familiar fact that ice on lakes and rivers frequently assumes,
in melting, a peculiar honeycomb structure. It has been more espe-
cially remarked in the spring, by persons whose residences or pursuits
have brougbt them in contact with the phenomena of the sudden dis-
appearance of ice that but a short time before was thick and apparently
sound.* When blocks of solid ice have been thrown on the shore of a
lake or river, they more strikingly exhibit, after a few days of sunshine
and a temperature above that of freezing, a structure in which the
whole mass of ice seems resolved into closely set groups of irregular
prisms, in the main perpendicular to the original horizontal surface.
This mass frequently retains for a long time its nearly full dimen-
sions, while steadily lessening in weight, from the solution of the walls
of what may be called the inter-columnar spaces, until at last the co-
hesion between the columns is overcome by gravity or slight agitation,
and what remains falls to pieces, a pile of long, slender, angular rods.
The diameter of these rods or irregular prisms is sometimes more than
an inch, and it is sometimes less than that of a knitting-needle.
The same change frequently takes place in ice afloat, and when far
advanced the ice columns may be thrust down by the foot, leaving a
sharp, vertical wall around the space through which the foot has
passed.
It has also been observed that where straw or litter has been dis-
* Rev. Zadock Thompson, " Silliman's Journal," Vol. XII. 2d Series, 1851, p. 23.
General Totten, chief of the engineers of the United States Army, Amer. Assoc.
Adv. Science, Report for 1851. "Silliman's Journal," 2d Series, Vol. XXVIII.
p. 359.
