OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : FEBRUARY 11, 1873. ' 511
tributed upon the ice, as in the case of a roadway across a stream or
pond, the transit may be safe along the beaten track long after horses
and vehicles would sink on either side. The ice in the latter case had
been sheltered from the sun.
Areas of ice swept of a light fall of snow will become soft at times
when neighboring ice, protected by the snow, will retain its glare and
hardness. The significance of the fact of exposure to the sun's rays
will presently appear.
Some sixteen years ago I began the study of this problem by taking
a series of photographs of the vertical surfaces of blocks of ice, trans-
parent and apparently thoroughly solid, or nearly so, throughout, as
they slowly melted under the direct rays of the sun. These photo-
graphs, successively taken at intervals of about half an hour, showed a .
constant approach to columnar structure.
I exposed water to be frozen in vessels of various shapes, and photo-
graphed the ice obtained, and found the columnar structure in general
perpendicular to the outer surface of the ice. "When the surface was
convex below, the columns curved upward toward the centre of the
mass.
While pursuing this mode of investigation, I conceived the idea of
taking plaster casts of the decaying ice. By placing the blocks of
honeycombed ice in boxes and pouring liquid plaster, such as is used
by stucco-workers, over the ice, the plaster flowed in to take the place
the melted ice had left, and " set" In a few hours the enclosed ice
melted, and the water flowed out or escaped by evaporation. On per-
mitting the cast carefully to dry, which was facilitated by removing the
upper crust of plaster and exposing the interior to the air, and then
touching the slender rods of plaster with a camel's-hair pencil dipped
in a weak solution of gum-arabic, and repeating this process for several
times with alternate drying, the whole cast at length acquired such
consistency as to admit of being moved about with safety. The forms
which were thus obtained from ice in various stages of decay, from .
large open ponds and from pools, were of great beauty and full of
material for study.
I desire chiefly in this note to present what I conceive to be the so-
lution of the problem of this columnar structure, that others who may
perhaps have better opportunities than myself may apply the explana-
tion and test it.
When water, by cooling at the surface, has throughout obtained its
