512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
greatest density, the circulation from above downward, and the reverse,
ceases. This takes place at a temperature of some 39.2 degrees Fahr.
Thenceforward further reduction of temperature causes the water to
congeal and expand at the surface. As still further reduction of tem-
perature at the surface goes on, the thickness of the ice increases from
below, and with this cooling comes a contraction of the superior por-
tions of the ice. This contraction, like that of lava shrinking from loss
of heat, or like that of large blocks of moist starch shrinking from loss
of water, is accompanied by separation of the mass into slender columns
by thin blades of space. In the case of ice, thin blades extend from
above downward, and divide the ice into a kind of cellular structure.
This structure in the ice, though actual, may be inappreciable to the
' eye, except in cases where the cells are sufficiently pronounced to be-
come visible through the filaments or blades of air which fill the spaces
left by the shrinking ice. The ■ cracks, by which I mean the visible
openings in the ice, which are readily commensurable, being frequently
a considerable fraction of an inch across, I have observed in many,
perhaps in most instances, are not readily traced to the bottom of the
ice, but are wedge-shaped and broadest at the top. This is not in-
variable, however. Under some conditions I have seen the opposite
sides of the cracks displaced, and the whole neighboring surface, stretch-
ing away from the crack, slightly curved downward, while the walls of
the crack are lifted. This conformation would naturally follow the re-
duction of temperature and shrinking from above. At the bottom the
ice must of course remain at 32°. In areas of ice which have been
thus subjected to contraction producing visible cracks, the openings fill
with water from below, which freezes, and marks by its somewhat con-
trasted clearness the site of the cracks. I have noticed in these cracks
a peculiar transverse columnar structure, the explanation of which does
not seem difficult, as will presently appear.
When, to a period of low temperature, and the production of cracks
and their filling with water and freezing, there succeeds a period of
warm weather, the whole body of the ice expands. Now r , under the
pressure consequent on this expansion, if the temperature rises to 32°,
the space of the cracks filled with water must be provided for ; and as
the only relief for this is by increasing the thickness of the ice, or, in
other words, .in an elongation of the rods of ice in the honeycomb
frame, there must be produced a slight vertical molecular movement
which still further individualizes the columns. Thus contraction and
