OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: FEBRUARY 11, 1873. 513
expansion are in the course of the winter repeated with every cycle of
temperature going above and below freezing, until when exposed to
the higher sun of spring, or even the direct sun during the winter,
especially in the case of a detached block, the surfaces of the honey-
comb structure are separated from each other by the solution of the
contiguous walls of ice.
The production of transverse horizontal columnar structure in the
ice of the cracks above referred to is a direct result of the freezing of
the water in the crack, first at the surface of contact with ice of a tem-
perature below the freezing point.
A like columnar structure I have observed when water in bottles
was frozen, as already alluded to, by exposure out of doors on very
cold nights. The ice from the surface in contact with the glass is, in
such cases, frequently filamentous, as if slender visible tubes converged
in a general way toward the vertical axis of the bottle. Strictly speak-
ing, the direction of the filaments is uniformly approaching a perpen-
dicular to the surface of the bottle, whatever its conformation.
These slender white threads I have proved to be primarily, not air-
tubes, but empty spaces, though when the ends of the tubes are ex-
posed by fracture, they, of course, instantly fill with air.
As a proof that these are empty spaces, I may mention that I ex-
posed a quantity of water in a cylindrical cast-iron vessel with rounded
bottom of some half-gallon capacity to a freezing temperature in which
the whole water became solid. On examining the transparent block, I
noticed near the centre of the upper surface what seemed a large air-
bubble shut in below a layer of ice about an eighth of an inch in thick-
ness at the thinnest part. Around the margin of this air-bubble I
raised a little wall of wax, and filled the space within the wall with
colored water. With a needle I then drilled through the film of ice to
the space below, when, on withdrawing the needle, the fluid passed
with a rush to the before, vacant cavity, filling it completely without
escape of bubbles.
This vacuum had been produced by the shrinking of the main body
of the ice, due to the cold after the formation of the exterior crust en-
casing the largest volume of the ice, the shrinking of the ice taking
place while there was still a portion of water not solidified. The space
left by the shrinking, filling with the remaining water, left a vacuum.
Like cavities I have produced in bottles filled with water' and ex-
posed to low temperature. The phenomenon is the same as that ob-
VOL. VIII. 65
