OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 35
Nor should we forget how much Faraday did to establish the iden-
tity of electricity, from whatever source it is derived, to prove the defi-
niteuess of its action, to unveil the process of electrolysis, to bring under
one general law conduction and insulation, to assert the dependence
of electrical and magnetic induction on the molecular agency of inter-
vening media, and to deal a vigorous and mortal blow to the contact-
theory of galvanism. Faraday was not destined, either by early asso-
ciations, education, or mental constitution, to discuss successfully high
themes of speculative philosophy or mathematical science, such as the
nature and conservation of force, or the essence of matter, though he
has written a few papers upon these subjects. Nevertheless, he con-
tributed more largely, perhaps, than any of his contemporaries to that
vast scientific capital, from which Grove has freely borrowed in the es-
tablishment of his theory of the Correlation of the Physical Forces,
and the convertibility of one manifestation of force into another, as so
many varieties of motion.
In 1854, as Faraday was approaching the close of his long period
of active service, he delivered a lecture at the Royal Institution, under
extraordinary circumstances, on Mental Education. This lecture de-
serves special commemoration, inasmuch as Faraday regarded the
views expressed in it both as cause and consequence of his own experi-
mental life. We here see that faith, humility, patience, labor of
thought, mental discipline, well-educated senses, had all conspired to
make him a fit high-priest of science. But he says that " this educa.
tion has, for its first and its last step, humility."
After Faraday returned from his tour with Davy upon the Conti-
nent, he pursued the even tenor of his way at the laboratory of the
Royal Institution with little interruption ; not allowing himself to be
distracted from the chosen work of his life by pleasure or profit or
applause. Though by following out his researches to their practical
application he might have amassed a large fortune, Faraday rejected
the glittering bribe when it was already within his grasp, saying : " I
felt I was not sent into the world for this purpose." If Faraday was
sent into the world for the discovery of truth, then most certainly he
accomplished his destiny. For was he not what Tyndall calls him,
" the greatest experimental philosopher the world has ever 'seen " ?
Though Faraday would not desert his high vocation for emolument, he
often did it at the call of his government, of humanity, of civilization,
of science. Nothing could have been more distasteful to him than to
