OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MARCH 11, 1873. 515
crystals being preserved and extended under the pressure. In ice this
preservation of surface may be aided by the thin film of air which occu-
pies the minute fissures occasioned by the shrinking of the ice. This
may perhaps influence regelation, and serve to keep the columns thus
honeycombed from amalgamating.
The rays of the sun falling upon and penetrating this ice are at each
interior surface more or less arrested and converted into dark heat, like
the heat received from the sun by the earth, and returned to the air in
contact with and near the surface, and convert the ice along the planes
of separation to water.
The repetition of this process at length so far separates the columns
from each other that a slight strain disengages them, and the columns
fall asunder, if in water to rapidly disappear in solution.*
&^j
Six hundred and fifty-fifth Sleeting.
March 11, 1873. — Adjourned Stated Meeting.
The President in the chair.
The President announced the death of Hon. James Savage
a Resident Fellow ; also that of Professor John Torrey, of New
York, an Associate Fellow.
The verbal changes in Chapter IX., Section 3, of the Statutes,
having for their object to make it conform as nearly as possible
to Section 2, as amended, were referred to the President and
Recording Secretary.
A paper on the " General Equation," by G. W. Pierce, was
referred to the Recording Secretary.
Professor H. P. Bowditch moved that a committee of five be
appointed to consider the propriety of seeking to obtain legisla-
tion providing better methods of procuring expert testimony in
* General Totten, in the paper above referred to, suggests that the columnar
structure is determined in the original formation of the ice by vertical prisms shot
down from above, which increase by lateral accretion till they drive all the air in
solution in the water into thin vertical films, marking the boundaries of the crystals.
This suggestion may be entitled to higher consideration than my observations lead
me to attach to it. It does not seem at all to meet the case of ice made up of snow-
flakes. The cavities or threads or filaments in ice are, moreover, as I have demon-
strated, vacua, and not spaces filled with air.
