518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
merit of the genus. In this revisal the herbariums of Dr. Gray, Dr.
Torrey, Professor Eaton, and of the Philadelphia Academy have been
consulted, and much aid in identifying many of the older species has
been derived from notes made by Dr. Gray upon typical specimens in
the British herbariums (especially that of Lindley, which was the basis of
Agardh's Synopsis), which he examined and compared with his own
specimens during his last visit to Europe.
In view of the peculiar difficulties that lie here in the way of deter-
mining specific differences and defining them, I can hope to have
attained scarcely more than moderate success in giving clear and satis-
factory descriptions. It will be seen, however, that there are three
well-marked sections, the largest of which is conveniently divided into
perennials and annuals. In the minor subdivisions, use is made mainly
of differences in habit and in the number of ovules, which are found
to be in most cases very constant. Little use is made of the characters
of the seed, the differences in the calyx are mostly slight and not
easily expressed, the color of the petals is often variable and change-
able and in dried specimens uncertain, and peculiarities of pubescence
or foliage, which in some cases seem very constant and reliable, in
others are not to be depended upon. Several species still remain to
some extent uncertain for want of sufficient material for comparison.
Some new species have been indicated, though as many others have been
reduced, and future explorations in the Lupine Region, from the Rocky
Mountains to the Pacific, will doubtless add to the list.
Synopsis of Species.
§ 1. LUPINUS, proper. Flowers in terminal racemes; banner with strongly
reflexed sides ; ovules several ; cotyledons petioled after germination ; pods
broadly linear. — Spec. 1-50.
* Unifoliolate perennials.
Pubescence villous, spreading ; stipules elongated ;
leaves lance-oblong, acute ; ovules 4-6 ... 1. L. villosus.
Pubescence mostly appressed and short ; stipules short ;
leaves oval or obovate, obtuse, short-petioled ; ovules
6-10 2. L. diffusus.
* * Perennial ; leaflets 5 - 15. — Spec. 3-39.
t Shrubby at base, tall and leafy ; pubescence silky,
mostly appressed ; leaflets 7-11; petioles short ;
bracts deciduous ; flowers large ; ovules many.
Pubescence not dense ; leaflets glabrate above, narrowly
lanceolate, acute ; fls. yellow ; calyx-lips subentire ;
ovules 10 -12 3. L. arboreus.
