524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
fornia, common. No. 615 Thurber, from San Pasqual, has stout, elon-
gated, few-leaved stems, the raceme over 1° long, and the leaflets 2\'
long, but it evidently belongs here.
5. L. Douglasii, Agh. Apparently less woody; pubescence
short, tomentose or silky, appressed ; leaflets 7-9, oblanceolate, 1 - 1 V
long, obtuse or acute, sometimes cuneate-oblong, pubescent on both
sides ; racemes often long-peduncled ; bracts linear-setaceous, exceeding
the calyx ; flowers blue or purple, scattered or subverticillate ; pedicels
3 - 5" long ; calyx with long setaceous bractlets, the upper lip nearly
2-parted, the lower entire ; petals equal, 6 - 7" long, keel ciliate ;
ovules 8-9. — Sacramento Valley to Southern California.
f f Stems wholly herbaceous, more or less elongated, in (a) mostly
succulent and fistulous.
a. Leaflets glabrous above, or nearly so, oblong to oblanceolate, 1^'
long or more (except in L. littoralis) ; flowers subverticillate ;
bracts deciduous ; calyx-lips usually but slightly toothed ; ovules
8 or more.
6. L. Nootkatensis, Donn. Stems often stout, 1 - 2° long, more
or less decumbent, leafy ; pubescence densely villous, spreading or sub-
appressed; stipules elongated, setaceous-acuminate; leaflets 6-8,
cuneate-oblong, obtuse and mucronulate or acutish, 1^-2' long, about
equalling the petioles ; raceme elongated, nearly sessile ; bracts linear-
lanceolate, equalling the calyx ; flowers blue or purplish, verticillate or
scattered ; pedicels 2 - 6" long; calyx large, with long setaceous bract-
lets, the upper lip rather deeply bifid and the lobes often erosely trun-
cate, the lower usually strongly 3-toothed ; petals 8 - 9" long, the keel
a little shorter and usually naked; ovules 9-12; pod 1^' long. —
From Vancouver to the Aleutian and St. Paul Islands ; " Kurile
Islands " (Ledebour) ; " Ft. Youkon " (Rothrock) ; Jasper House
(Burke).
Var. Unalaskensis. Stems slender ; pubescence wholly short,
silky and appressed ; raceme short and few-flowered. — Unalaska
Island (Eschscholtz, Rudolphi, and Harrington) ; Port Mulgrave
(Barclay).
7. L. poltphyllus, Lindl. Stout, erect, 2 - 5° high, sparingly
villous, the pedicels, calyx, and youngest leaves silky-pubescent ; stip-
ules large, triangular to subulate ; leaves distant, long-petioled ; leaflets
10-16, in the upper leaves often but 8 - 10, glabrous above, 2 - 6'
