36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
leave, even for one hour, his quiet walk with Nature, which never
cheated however she might elude him, and sit with table-movers and
other pretended interpreters of her secrets. After describing the ap-
paratus, which, with great experimental tact, he had devised for ex-
posing the trickery or self-deception of his associates, he writes : " I am
a little ashamed of it, for I think, in the present age, and in this part
of the world, it ought not to have been required. Nevertheless, I
hope it may be useful." And again he says : " I think the system
of education that could leave the mental condition of the public body
in the state in which this subject has found it must have been greatly
deficient in some very important principle."
Many scientific men in Great Britain have surpassed Faraday in
the clearness, elegance, and eloquence of their writings. But no one,
unless it were Davy, possessed to such a degree Faraday's gift of im-
parting to others, in the lecture-room, what he had discovered for him-
self. If, as De la Rive said of him, he was never caught in a mistake
in his laboratory, " the hand marvellously seconding the resolves of
the brain," we may add that he seldom disheartened his audience by
the miscarriage of an experiment, destroying the spell by which he
had hitherto bound them. Though he was less dramatic, we might
almost say less theatrical, in his style of address than Davy, he never
failed to attract an admiring crowd, not only of the thoughtful and the
educated, but of the gay and the high-born. He was equally at home
with the juvenile audiences which listened to him during the Christmas
holidays.
For fifty years, Davy and Faraday together have sustained the glory
of the Royal Institution as with the brightness of a whole Academy ;
both of them of unchallenged greatness, not only as discoverers of
physical truths, but as expositors also. In Davy was found a rare com-
bination of poetry and science. Coleridge, it was said, frequented his
lectures " to increase his stock of metaphors." Davy preferred the
blazing battery of the Royal Institution to the chemist's balance. His
generalizations were bold and dazzling. Quality, and not quantity, ex-
cited his mind. In ten»years he stood on the pinnacle of fame. He
was knighted ; he was courted ; and then his position at the Royal In-
stitution was almost honorary. Faraday relied less on his imagination
and more on his experiments. Brilliant as were his triumphs, they
were won by hard work. His whole scientific life was one protracted
campaign, — and that was a war of posts, and not a succession of bril-
