528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
toothed or nearly entire ; petals 5" long, the banner rounded, naked,
the keel ciliate ; ovules 5. — San Francisco Mts., Arizona (Sitgreave,
1851 ; Wheeler, 1872) ; Copper Mines, New Mexico (Bigelow). To
this perhaps belongs also 2012 Brewer, from Ebbett's Pass in the
Sierra, scarcely at all villous and the keel naked, as also 1020
Wright, from the mountains of New Mexico, resembling Brewer's
plant, but with the stipules longer and more conspicuous.
18. L. barbiger. Pubescence upon the stem, pedicels and petioles
dense, of short, stiffish, spreading hairs, upon the leaves and calyx silky-
hairy and subappressed ; stipules setaceous ; leaflets 5-7, narrowly
oblanceolate, silky on both sides ; raceme rather dense, short-pedun-
cled ; pedicels 2 - 3" long ; bracts setaceous, exceeding the- calyx ;
lower calyx-lip narrow, subentire, slightly longer than the broader
rather deeply toothed upper lip ; petals 5" long, ochroleucous, equal,
the banner rounded, silky, the keel copiously ciliate ; ovules 7. — Col-
lected in Kane County, Southern Utah, 1873, by A. L. Siler.
19. L. ornattjs, Dougl. Stems decumbent or ascending; pubes-
cence usually short, more or less silky, mostly appressed ; stipules
setaceous ; leaflets 5-7, oblanceolate or cuneate-oblong, f - 2' long,
acute or acutish : raceme 8-8' long, usually short-peduncled ; bracts
short, subulate or ovate ; pedicels 2 - 3" long ; bractlets setaceous ;
calyx-lips nearly equal, the upper rather shortly toothed or bifid, the
lower subentire; petals blue, equal, 5 - 1" long, the banner acutish,
subsilky on the back, keel ciliate ; ovules 5-8 ; pod 1\' long, 3 - 4"
wide. — From the Columbia River to Southern California.
L. leucopsis, Agh., collected by Douglas in " Oregon and Rocky
Mts.," appears to be the same. Specimens from Clark's Ranch, Mari-
posa Valley (Dr. Gray), may probably be referred here as an extreme
form, being densely tomentose, the leaflets nearly obovate, and banner
but slightly bearded.
Var. glabratus. Leaflets glabrous above, cuneate-oblong, acutish
or obtuse ; flowers nearly white, with a dark-purple spot upon the
banner. — Common in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado.
d. Leaves distant ; lower petioles elongated.; leaflets not smooth
above ; racemes mostly dense ; flowers smaller and not yellow
(except in L. sulphureus) ; ovules 4-6.
20. L. sulphureus, Dougl. A not fully identified species. De-
scribed as with 13-15 densely silky leaflets, keel naked and banner
