532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
der ; pubescence minute, silky, appressed ; stipules setaceous, mostly
very small ; leaflets 6-8, narrowly oblanceolate, 1-2' long, acute, pu-
berulent on both sides, at least half as long as the petioles ; racemes
loose and slender, 3-6' long ; bracts subulate ; flowers subverticillate
or scattered, small, on pedicels 2 - 3" long ; calyx narrowed and sac-
cate at base, minutely bracteolate, upper lip shortly toothed, the lower
subentire and a little longer ; petals blue, 3 - 5" long, equal ; banner
subpubescent, keel ciliate ; ovules 4 - 6 ; pod § ' long, very hairy. —
Washington Territory and Oregon, from Ft. Vancouver to Klamath
Valley and the northern Sierra, and eastward to Northern Utah.
L. arbustus, Dough, is a rather stouter, larger-leaved form, the leaflets
sometimes 2-J-' lonjr.
31. L. argenteus, Pursh. Erect or ascending, 1-2° high, slender ;
pubescence minute, silky, appressed ; stipules small ; leaflets 5-8,
linear-lanceolate, f — 1£' long, acute, smooth above or nearly so, about
equalling the petioles ; racemes 2-6' long, nearly sessile ; flowers
subverticillate or scattered, pedicels £ - 2" long ; calyx campanulate,
gibbous but not spurred at base, minutely bracteolate, upper lip broad,
2-toothed, the lower subentire, slightly longer ; petals blue or cream-
colored, equal, 3 - 4" long, the banner very broad, naked or subhairy,
keel naked or subciliate ; ovules 5 - 3 ; pod f - 1' long. — Plains of
the Columbia and -Snake Rivers. Distinguished from the last chiefly
by the shape of the calyx and smoother leaves ; including its varieties,
this is the most widely diffused of the western species.
Var. decumbens. {L. decumbens, Torr.) Raceme dense and many-
flowered ; stem usually stouter and more leafy. — In the Rocky Mts.,
from Montana to New Mexico.
Var. ARGOPHYLLUS. With the habit of var. decumbens, but more
copiously silky-pubescent, the leaflets nearly or quite equally so upon
both sides, longer than the petioles ; flowers larger, 5 - 6" long, blue or
ochroleucous, the calyx decidedly spurred. Approaching nearly to
L. laxiflorus. — Montana to New Mexico.
32. L. holosericeus, Nutt. Erect or ascending, 1-1^° high;
pubescence silvery-silky, closely appressed ; stipules short ; leaflets
6-8, narrowly oblanceolate, f - \\' long, acute, very silky both sides,
at least half as long as the petioles ; racemes 3-6' long, nearly sessile ;
flowers often very small, verticillate, pedicels 1 - 2" long ; calyx
slightly spurred at base, minutely bracteolate, lips nearly equal, the
upper broad and shortly toothed, lower subentire ; petals apparently
