534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
times longer ; banner broader. — Intermediate between L. aridus and
L. minimus. In the high Sierras of California.
Var. Utahensis. Racemes 3-6' long, shorter than the very long-
petioled leaves ; bracts setaceous, exceeding the flowers ; petals pur-
plish, 4" long, the banner shorter. — Parley's Park in the Wahsatch
(Watson).
36. L. Kingii. Stems apparently from a perennial subterranean
rootstock, diffusely branched, leafy ; pubescence villous, spreading ;
leaflets oblong-lanceolate, f - 1/ long, acutish or obtuse, the petioles
twice longer ; racemes on slender peduncles equalling the leaves ;
bracts short ; calyx nearly equalling the petals, the lower lip equally
3-toothed ; petals purplish, 4" long, the narrow rhomboidal banner
shorter than the wings ; ovules 2 - 3 ; pod ovate, 5" long, 1 - 2-seeded.
— Iieber Valley in the Wahsatch (Watson). At first mistaken for the
last, which it much resembles.
37. L. minimus, Dougl. Appressed silky-villous, 3-6' high ;
leaflets 5-9, obovate or oblanceolate, 3 - 8" long, mostly acutish, the
petioles 3-4 times longer ; peduncles equalling or exceeding the
leaves ; bracts short, deciduous ; calyx half the length of the petals,
upper lip deeply bifid ; petals purple, 4 - 5" long, equal, the banner or-
bicular. — Oregon and Washington Territory.
38. L. Breweri, Gray. Stems 2 - G' long, from a spreading
branched woody caudex, very leafy ; pubescence dense, silky,
appressed ; leaflets 7 - 10, obovate, obtuse, 4 - 6" long, the petioles
1-2 times longer ; racemes very short, peduncles equalling the leaves ;
bracts short ; calyx-lips nearly equal, the upper deeply bifid, the lower
shortly and equally toothed ; petals blue, equal, 3 - A" long, the ban-
ner orbicular. — Sierra Nevada, California; alpine.
39. L. Lyallii, Gray. Stems leafy, from a spreading woody cau-
dex ; pubescence dense, villous, appressed ; leaflets 5-6, obovate,
3 - 4" long, acutish, the petioles 3-4 times longer ; racemes very
short, the peduncles much exceeding the leaves ; bracts short ; calyx-lips
nearly equal ; petals purple, 5" long, nearly equal, the banner elliptical.
— Summit of the Cascade Mountains, Washington Territory (Lyall).
Var. Danaus. {L. Danaus, Gray.) Stems less leafy ; jmbescence
rather sparse ; petals nearly white, the keel tipped with dark-purple.
— Mt. Dana, California, at 12,500 feet altitude. The comparison of a
larger amount of material may modify the definition of some of these
alpine species.
