OF AKTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 535
* * * Annuals, erect ; leaflets mostly 5 - 7 (in L. leptophyllus, 8 - 10) ;
upper calyx-lip 2-parted or bifid ; keel mostly ciliate.
f Flowers verticillate ; bracts deciduous.
40. L. affinis, Agh. Pubescent with very short spreading or
subappressed hairs, 1° high, branched ; leaflets broadly cuneate-
obovate, 1/ long, emarginate or rounded at the apex, glabrous or
smoother above, half as long as the petioles ; racemes long-peduncled ;
bracts short ; lower calyx-lip entire or equally 3-toothed ; petals 5"
long, nearly equal, bluish-purple and white, the keel usually naked ;
ovules 5 - 9 ; pod^l - lh' long. — From San Francisco to San Diego ;
an early spring flower. Near the larger flowered form of L. nanus,
with which it was confounded by Agardh himself, but distinguished by
its short pubescence, broader and obtuser leaflets, usually smooth
above, and its short bracts. L. cervinus, Kellogg, is probably only a
stout form of this species.
41. L. nanus, Dougl. Slender, ^-1° high, branching often from
the base, villous with spreading hairs or only short-pubescent ; leaflets
linear to oblanceolate, ^ — 1' long, acute, pubescent on both sides, the
petioles 1-3 times longer ; racemes loose, 2-6' long ; bracts mostly
exceeding the calyx and attenuate ; pedicels slender, 2 - 3" long ; upper
calyx-lip 2-cleft, the lower entire or slightly toothed ; petals 3 - 6"
(usually 5 - 6") long, very broad, bluish-purple, the banner at first
nearly white, spotted with dark-purple lines, the white turning to red-
dish-purple ; ovules 6 - 9 ; pod \ - \\' long, 4 - 8-seeded. — From Sac-
ramento Valley to Southern California and Western Arizona. Flow-
ering in spring ; quite variable in the size of its flowers and breadth
of the leaflets.
42. L. micranthus, Dougl. Near the last; slender, branching
from the base, 3 - 12' high, villous ; leaflets linear, \ — V long ; racemes
short, usually rather crowded ; bracts shorter than the calyx ; pedicels
^ — 1" long ; calyx-lips broad, the upper with two short triangular
lobes, the lower obtuse and subentire or slightly toothed ; petals 2 - 3"
long, the wings and banner very narrow. — From Puget Sound to
Southern California.
Var. microphyllus. (L. microphyllm, Nutt. MS.) A lower and
more hirsute form, with leaflets but 3 - 6" long. San Diego.
Var. trifidus. (L. trifidus, Torr. MS.) Very hairy ; lower lip of
the calyx 3-parted. — Found near San Francisco by several collectors,
and perhaps a good species, though the only apparent characteristic
is the remarkable division of the calyx.
