538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
than 1" long ; petals " blue and white," 2 - 3" long, narrow, the banner
slightly shorter, the calyx and petals nearly as in L. micranthus ;
pod y long, 4 - 5-seeded. — From Monterey to Southern California.
§2. PLATYCAEPOS. Flowers as in § Lupinus ; ovules 2;
cotyledons broad and clasping after germination, usually long-per-
sistent. — Annuals ; leaflets several, cuneate-oblong or -obovate ;
bracts persistent ; pods ovate.
* Flowers verticillate ; stems tall ; racemes long-peduncled.
51. L. microcarpus, Sims. Villous with long spreading hairs,
£-11° high ; stipules long, setaceous ; leaves mostly approximate upon
the stem, on elongated petioles; leaflets 7-11, usually 9, cuneate-
oblong, 1-2' long, obtuse and mucronulate or emarginate, or some-
times acutish, smooth above; flowers in close verticils, on pedicels
1 - 2" long ; bracts subulate-setaceous, equalling the calyx or shorter ;
calyx densely villous, lower lip large, 3-toothed, the middle tooth
small, the upper lip very short, subscarious, toothed ; bractlets small,
often wanting ; petals purple, or sometimes flesh- or cream-colored or
white, 6 - 7" long, equal, the keel slightly ciliate ; pods villous, 8"
Ions. — From the Columbia River to Southern California; stouter
than most Chilian specimens. It occasionally approaches closely to the
next in pubescence and in the color of the flowers.
52. L. densiflorus, Benth. Much resembling the last, but more
sparingly villous with shorter hairs ; bracts much shorter than the ca-
lyx, which is smooth or short-pubescent, the upper lip often entire ;
petals yellow, or ochroleucous, white or pink. — From the Sacramento
Valley southward. It includes L. 3fenziesii, Agh. ; and L. succulentus,
Koch, is probably but a garden form.
53. L. Bridgesii, Gray, MS. in herb. Stem 1-2° high, rather
slender, branched ; pubescence short, appressed, subsilky, the bracts
and pod villous ; stipules short ; leaves scattered ; petioles short ; leaf-
lets 5-9, usually 7, cuneate-oblong, 1' long, obtuse or acute, pubescent
both sides or sometimes smooth above ; bracts linear-setaceous, exceed-
ing the calyx; flowers as in the last, the' petals pale-yellow, 6" long. —
Sacramento Valley. Collected by Bridges (55), Bolander (6512), and
Dr. Kellogg.
* * Low ; flowers scattered ; bracts shorter than the calyx.
54. L. pdsillus, Pursh. Rather stout, 3-10' high, diffusely
branched, hirsute with long spreading hairs ; leaflets usually 5, cuneate-
