552 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
smaller ; petals suborbicular, 3 — 4" long, white, yellowish, or in some
western specimens bright yellow ; stamens mostly 30, with dark thick-
ened anthers. — From New England to the Saskatchewan, and in the
Rocky Mts. from Northern Idaho to New Mexico.
2. P. glandulosa, Lindl. (P. Jissa, Nutt. ; P. Wrangeliana,
Fisch. & Mey.) Resembling the last, but usually more slender and
branched, 1-2° high, and for the most part less pubescent ; leaflets
more frequently 5 - 9, usually V long or less; cyme panicled, with
elongated branches and more slender pedicels ; flowers often smaller ;
calyx much less tomentose, becoming less rigid ; bractlets linear ;
petals yellow, sometimes white ; stamens usually 25. — Washington
Territory to California, and eastward to the mountains of Colorado and
New Mexico. A very slender form with but few small flowers and
sometimes but 20 stamens, the cyme often close, is found in the Sierra
Nevada and in Colorado.
* * Style terminal ; disk not thickened ; flowers small, yellow ;
leaves pinnate or ternate.
f Annual or biennial ; leaflets incisely serrate, not white-tomentose ;
stamens 5 -20.
3. P. Norvegica, L. Erect, stout, £-2° high, leafy, at length
dichotomous above, hirsute ; stipules large, ovate, coarsely incised or
entire ; leaves ternate, mostly short-petioled ; leaflets obovate or oblong-
lanceolate, 1-3' long ; cyme leafy and rather loose ; calyx large, be-
coming 3 — 5" long, the bractlets nearly equalling or exceeding the
sepals ; petals shorter, obovate, emarginate ; stamens 15, in two rows,
rarely 20 ; achenia rugose or nearly smooth ; receptacle large, oblong.
— From Labrador and the Northern States to Washington Territory,
Alaska, and Pt. Barrow, and in the Rocky Mts. southward to New
Mexico ; sparingly introduced in the Southern States. P. Labra-
dorica, Lehm., is but an unusually smooth form.
4. P. rivalis, Nutt. More slender, usually diffusely branched,
even from the base ; pubescence softly villous, spreading, sometimes
nearly wanting ; stipules lanceolate to ovate, entire or toothed ; leaves
pinnate, with two pairs of closely approximate leaflets, or a single pair
and the terminal leaflet 3-parted, the upper leaves ternate ; leaflets,
ovate or oblong-cuneate or lanceolate, 1 - 1^' long, more or less incised-
serrate ; cymes loose, less leafy, with slender pedicels ; bractlets and
sepals equal, l£-3" long; petals minute; stamens 10-20; achenia
