38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
his scattered publications, and placed them in a compact and perma-
nent form, suited to the private library of the student of science. His
" Series of Experimental Researches upon Electricity " amounted to
thirty ; all but one of which are now contained in three volumes, pub-
lished successively in 1839, 1844, and 1855. These Researches are
illustrated by other papers upon the same subject, originally printed in
the Philosophical Magazine, or in the Journal and Proceedings of the
Royal Institution, as the Researches themselves were in the Philo-
sophical Transactions. Faraday's " Experimental Researches in Chem-
istry and Physics" fill a fourth volume which appeared in 1859. Also,
under his sanction and partly from his notes, have been printed, " Six
Lectures on the Non-metallic Elements," in 1852 ; " Six Lectures on
the various Forces of Matter," in 1860 ; and " Six Lectures on the
History of a Candle," in 1861.
The first edition of the " Chemical Manipulation " bears the date of
1827. This was followed by an American edition in 1831, and a
second English edition in 1842.
Sir David Brewster was born, December 11, 1781, at Jed-
burgh, Scotland, also the birthplace of the accomplished commentator
upon Laplace's Mecanique Celeste, Mary Somerville. He died at
Allerly House, Melrose, in Scotland, February 10, 1868. Although
he had reached his eighty-seventh year, we are assured, in the circular
announcing his death, that " his faculties were unimpaired to the very
last, and he died in the full assurance of faith in Christ Jesus."
What revolutions in old sciences, what brilliant careers of new
sciences, are condensed into this single lifetime ? Born before Galvan-
ism was even a name, he lived to see Voltaic Electricity give birth to
the twin sciences of Electro-Magnetism and Magneto-Electricity, throw
off its own ephemeral character in the sustaining batteries of Grove
and Bunsen, and close a long catalogue of practical triumphs in chem-
istry, physics, and mechanics with the oceanic telegraph. Born before
Chladni had revived experimental acoustics or published Die Akustik,
he lived to see this beautiful branch of Physics expand under the cul-
tivation of Savart, Cagniard-de-la-Tour, Wheatstone, Faraday, Lisse-
jous, and Helmholtz, until, by affiliations more startling than any which
Mrs. Somerville celebrates in her " Connection of the Physical
Sciences," the eye threatens to supplant the ear in the investigation
of the laws of sound, quality appears to be resolved into quantity,
the vowel sounds are mocked by an orchestra of tuning-forks, and
