554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
acute ; petals suborbiculai', emarginate, 2" long, about equalling the
calyx ; stamens usually 25 ; carpels numerous. — With scarcely a
doubt to be referred to P. sericea. The species are kept distinct by all
Russian botanists, though Regel & Herder state that the only apparent
distinction is in the larger flowers of P. sericea, and that this is proba-
bly but the large-flowered alpine form of P. Pennsylvanica. — Found on
the coast of Maine and New Hampshire, and in British America from
Canada to the Rocky Mts., and rather common southward in the
mountains to Colorado and New Mexico. It is occasionally somewhat
resinous, especially upon the calyx, and sometimes the achenia.
Var. strigosa, Lehm. Stems 6-12' high; silky-tomentose
throughout, the upper surface of the leaves scarcely less so ; leaflets
deeply pinnatifid, margins of the narrow lobes revolute ; cyme short
and close. — From Wisconsin and the Saskatchewan to Kansas, and in
the mountains to New Mexico. The var. bipinnatijida, Torr. & Gray,
is merely a form with the elongated linear segments usually more
spreading.
Var. glabrata. (P. sericea, var. glabrata, Lehm.) "Leaves sub-
glabrous on both sides, the lobes of the leaflets silky-tufted at
the apex." — Rocky Mts. of British America (Drummond).
7. P. Hookeriana, Lehm. Densely white-tomentose and villous,
the leaves greener above ; stems 3-5' high ; leaflets three, cuneate-
ovate, 5 - 8" long, incised nearly to the midvein, the middle one shortly
petiolulate ; flowers short-pedicelled, in dense cymelets on the slender
branches ; calyx very silky-villous, the narrow bractlets equalling the
acute sepals ; petals obcordate, 1J-2" long, equalling or exceeding the
calyx ; stamens 20. — British America. Specimens collected by
Bourgeau on the Saskatchewan accord with Lehmann's description and
figure.
8. P. pulchella, R. Br. Dwarf, arctic, silky-villous and tomen-
tose ; stems 1-4' high, 1 - 3-flowered, slender, naked; leaves pinnately
3-5 foliolate, the ovate leaflets 3 - 6" long, coarsely cleft nearly to the
midvein, the linear-oblong lobes divaricate ; bractlets broad, equalling
the sepals ; petals obovate or obcordate, 2" long, equalling the calyx ;
stamens 20. — Arctic America and Greenland (Parry ; Kane ;
Hayes).
II. Styles filiform, not glandular at base ; inflorescence cymose. —
Spec. 9-29.
* Style terminal (or nearly so in P. brevifolia) ; carpels glabrous,
