556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
leaves appressed silky-villous ; stipules broad, mostly incised ; leaflets
7-13, nearly uniform in size, 3-6" long, broadly cuneate, deeply in-
cised; cymes mostly crowded; flowers rather large, the emarginate
petals 3 - 5" long, much exceeding the calyx ; carpels 20 - 25, on vil-
lous pedicels, the receptacle and disk hairy. — Mono Pass in the
Sierra (1720 Brewer) ; summit above Cisco (Bolander).
13. P. Plattensis,- Nutt. Subalpine ; pubescence throughout ap-
pressed silky-villous, scanty or nearly wanting ; stems decumbent, slen-
der, 3 - 12' long ; stipules linear-lanceolate to oblong, mostly entire;
leaflets 7-13, usually crowded and often alternate, 2-6" long, ovate,
deeply incised-pinnatifid into 3-7 linear segments ; flowers few, on
slender pedicels, in an open cyme ; petal 2 - 3" long, usually exceeding
the calyx, obovate and entire or retuse, or obcordate ; carpels 25 - 40.
Eocky Mts. of Colorado. P. diversifolia, var. pinnatisecta, Watson
(331 and 332), from the Clover Mts., Nevada, and the Uintas, must
probably be referred here, though more densely silky, and the hairs
upon the calyx spreading.
14. P. dissecta, Pursh. (P. diversifolia, P. Drummondii, and
P. rubricaulis, Lehm.) Low, alpine, more or less silky-villous, with
somewhat spreading hairs, or nearly glabrous ; stems decumbent or
ascending, 3-12' long ; stipules ovate- or oblong-lanceolate, entire ;
leaflets 5 - 7, or rarely but three, often glaucous, closely pinnate, or as
frequently digitate, the upper one V long or less, cuneate-oblong,
incisely pinnatifid or serrate, the lowest often but trifid, the segments
acute or acutish, and more or less tufted with white hairs ; flowers few,
on slender pedicels in an open cyme ; calyx more or less villous with
spreading hairs, the bractlets short, the lanceolate sepals shorter than
the petals, which are 2 - 4" long, obovate and retuse or obcordate ;
receptacle very villous; carpels 10-20, or more. — From British
America to Colorado and California.
An examination of the original specimen of P. dissecta from " Hud-
son's Bay " in Herb. Banks (kindly made by Mr. Trimen of the
British Museum) shows that it is but one of the several forms that
have been referred to P. diversifolia, " from which it seems only to
differ in its larger size, less amount of hairiness (the under side of the
leaves only slightly pilose), and more deeply cut leaflets." Pursh's
name must be retained as the oldest. A quite variable species, but
strongly marked. The frequent form with nearly glabrous leaves is
var. glaucophtlla, Lehm. A rather stout and glabrous form with
