OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 557
larger and more distant leaflets is P. Drumriiondii, Lehm. A subdigi-
tate form with the leaflets linear-parted is var. multisecta, Watson.
P. rubricaulis, Lehm., appears to be a form with the leaflets subtomen-
tose beneath, a case of rather rare occurrence.
Var. decurrens. Leaflets but three or with 1-2 additional dis-
tant pairs of smaller ones, the terminal leaflet cuneate-oblong, truncately
3-toothed, the upper pair 2 - 3-toothed, conspicuously decurrent, the
lowest lanceolate and mostly entire ; stem 1-flowered, 3' high ; glabrous
throughout, excepting the villous calyx and tufted apices of the leaves.
— 329 Watson, from peaks of the Uintas, at 12,000 feet altitude. A
very peculiar form, perhaps distinct.
f f Leaves digitately 5 - 7-foliolate (rarely pinnate in P. gracilis) ;
tomentose or villous.
15. P. gracilis, Dougl. (P. Blaschkeana, Turcz.) Villous and
more or less tomentose ; stems 2-3° high ; stipules ovate or lanceo-
late, entire or subincised ; leaflets mostly 7, sometimes 5, very rarely
but 3, cuneate-oblong, obtuse, incisely serrate or pinnatifid, tomentose
beneath, green above and subvillous or appressed-silky, 1 - 2^' long ;
flowers in a loose subfastigiate cyme, the pedicels at length elongated
and slender ; calyx with the narrow bractlets shorter than the broad
acute or lanceolate sepals ; petals broadly obcordate, 3 - 4" long, a
little exceeding the calyx; carpels very numerous (40 or more). —
From the Saskatchewan to Southern Alaska, and southward to New
Mexico, Utah, and California. The leaflets occasionally show a ten-
dency to a pinnate arrangement, and the species is distinguishable from
the digitate form of P. Hippiana, var. pulcherrima, only by the more
numerous carpels and the usually fewer and more deeply incised leaf-
lets. Specimens like 159 Hall & Harbour tend to unite the two
species.
Var. flabelliformis. (P. flabelliformis, Lehm.) Differing only
in the more deeply pinnatifid leaflets.
Var. fastigiata (P. fastigiata, Nutt., P. olopetala, Lehm.) is a
form, often low, with a shorter and more crowded cyme, the pubescence
more dense and silky, especially upon the calyx and short pedicels.
Var. rigida. {P. rigida, Nutt., not Wall. P. Nuttallii, Lehm.)
A mostly stout and tall form, villous but without tomentum, the cyme
loose or crowded, the leaves often large, 3-4' long or more, and promi-
nently veined beneath. — The leaves are occasionally decidedly pin-
nate, as in 1G2 Hall <fc Harbour. Certainly but a variety of P. gracilis.
