OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 561
to the middle of the ovary. — New England, and from the Great
Lakes northward to Greenland, the Arctic Circle, and Alaska.
27. P. Thurberi, Gray. Stems ascending, slender, 2° high ; pu-
bescence subvillous or minute ; stipules ovate, incisely toothed ; leaves
digitate ; leaflets 5-7, obovate to oblong, 2' long, obtuse, nearly
glabrous, coarsely serrate ; flowers dark purple, in an open cyme ;
calyx large, the bractlets equalling the sepals ; petals B" long, very
broadly obcordate, equalling the calyx ; disk thickened, pentagonal,
bearing at the angles opposite to the sepals the 5 inner stamens with
stout fleshy filaments, the 15 outer stamens with slender filaments
arising from the margin of the base of the calyx ; carpels numerous,
sessile on the short hairy receptacle ; style terminal. — New Mexico.
28. P. biflora, Willd. Dwarf, csespitose, the ascending stems
slender, 2-3' high ; pubescence villous, the pedicels subtomentose ;
leaves all radical, ternate ; the middle leaflet petiolulate and 3-parted,
the lateral 2-parted, the linear segments 3 — 6" long with strongly revo-
lute margins and villous-tufted, becoming nearly glabrous above ; flow-
ers 1-5, yellow; bractlets broad, equalling the acute sepals; petals
cuneate-obcordate, 2\" long, exceeding the calyx ; disk glandular
between the five inner stamens, lobed ; filaments all subfiliform ; car-
pels 15 - 30, short-pedicelled, the pedicels and small receptacle villous
with long hairs ; style attached below the apex of the ovary. — On
the Arctic Coast and in Siberia. No American specimens found in our
collections.
* * * Style attached below the middle of the ovary ; carpels on
short pedicels, and, with the receptacle, densely Villous ; disk not
thickened ; more or less woody perennials.
29. P. fruticosa, L. Shrubby, much branched, 1-4° high ;
pubescence silky-villous ; stipules scarious ; leaves pinnate ; leaflets
5- 7, crowded, oblong-lanceolate, 2-12" long, entire, usually whiter
beneath and the margins revolute ; flowers on slender pedicels in
rather loose cymes or solitary ; bractlets equalling the acute sepals ;
petals yellow, orbicular, 2 - 6" long, exceeding the calyx ; stamens 30 ;
carpels 20. — From New Jersey to Labrador and Wisconsin, and
northward to the Arctic Circle and Behring Strait, and in the moun-
tains to Colorado, Nevada, and Northern California.
Var. parvifolia. An alpine form, with minute densely silky
VOL. VIII. 71
