562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
leaves, 2" long, and small flowers. — E. Humboldt Mts., Nevada, and
in the Wahsatch.
30. P. tridentata, Soland. Caudex woody, creeping, branched and
tufted, the ascending herbaceous stems 1 - 10' high, subnaked - r pubes-
cence sparse, silky, appressed ; stipules lanceolate, entire ; leaves
ternate ; leaflets subcoriaceous and shining above, cuneate-oblong, i-P
long, 3 - 5-toothed at the truncate apex ; flowers white, loosely cymose ;
bractlets nearly equalling the sepals, smoother ; petals obovate-oblong,
2 - 3" long, exceeding the calyx ; stamens and carpels 20, the achenia
becoming sparingly villous. — Higher peaks of the Alleghanies and
White Mts. ; coast of Massachusetts ; Labrador ; Greeenland ; and
from the Great Lakes to lat. 64°. P. return, Miiller {Fl. Dan. 5,
t. 799), is the older name by several years, but is less appropriate.
III. Style filiform, attached to the middle of the ovary or below the
apex ; peduncles axillary, solitary, 1-flowered ; carpels glabrous,
short-pedicelled, the pedicel and receptacle very villous ; herba-
ceous perennials with mostly creeping or decumbent stems; flow-
ers yellow.
31. P. Anserina, L. Spreading by slender many-jointed ruuners,
white-tomeutose and silky-villous; stipules many-cleft; leaves all radi-
cal, pinnate ; leaflets 7 - 21, with smaller ones interposed, oblong,
sharply serrate, silky-tomentose at least beneath ; bractlets often
incisely cleft, about equalling the sepals ; petals oblong, broadly ellipti-
cal and entire or obcordate, 3 - 6" long, exceeding the calyx ; stamens
20, rarely 25 ; carpels 20 - 40 ; style attached to the middle of the
ovary. — Pennsylvania to Illinois, New Mexico and California, and
northward to the Arctic Ocean and Greenland. Very variable in size
and pubescence, from the wholly glabrous minute plant of Greenland
to the ordinary form with leaflets nearly or quite glabrous above or
equally silvery-silky on both sides, and the still larger western form
with leaves often 1-2° lonj;.
32. P. Canadensis, L. Stems slender and decumbent or prostrate ;
pubescence villous, often scanty ; stipules mostly entire ; leaves ternate,
the lateral leaflets parted nearly to the base, cuneate-oblong or -obovate,
incisely serrate, nearly glabrous above ; peduncles exceeding the
leaves ; bractlets longer than the sepals, entire ; petals broadly obovate
or obcordate, 2 - 3" long ; stamens 20 ; carpels 20 - 40 ; style attached
