OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 591
wan to Wisconsin, and westward of the Mississippi to Texas and New
Mexico.
Var. spinulosa, Torr. & Gray. Usually nearly glabrous, the
stems rather stout, subdecumbent, sometimes 2-3° long ; flowers
larger, the tube 6-10" long, with a slender base and equalling the
petals ; the stigma and throat of the calyx occasionally very dark-
purple or orange. — From the Indian Territory to Texas.
Var. pixifolia, Engelm. Leaves very narrowly linear and sub-
revolute ; flowers as in var. spinulosa. — Texas.
§4. SPILEROSTIGMA, Spach. Stigma capitate ; calyx-tube ob-
conic or shortly funnelform ; petals entire or emarginate; stamens
somewhat unequal, the oblong anthers attached near the middle ;
capsules linear, sessile, terete or tetragonal, attenuated at the apex
and more or less contorted ; seeds ascending in a single row in
each cell, ovate to linear-oblong, smooth or nearly so. Caulescent
annuals or biennials, the spikes usually crowded, bracteate or leafy.
* Flowers white or rose-colored, in a nodding spike ; calyx-tube
funnelform ; capsule narrowly linear, terete, much contorted ; seeds
linear, acute at each end.
37. GE. altssoides, Hook. & Arn. Canescently puberulent, usu-
ally branching from the base, 3'— 1° high ; leaves otdanceolate or ob-
long-lanceolate, 1 - 2V long, attenuate into a slender petiole, entire or
repand-denticulate, the bracts much smaller but similar ; spike many-
flowered, becoming elongated ; calyx-tube 2 - 3" long, equalling the
orbicular entire petals ; capsules puberulent, 8-12" long, very slender
and scarcely thicker at base ; seeds nearly white, very minutely pitted.
— From Southern Idaho through Nevada and Utah.
Var. villosa. More or less villous throughout. — Nevada.
Var. mtnutiflora, Watson. Flowers much reduced, scarcely more
than 1" Long. — Northern Nevada and about Salt Xake, Utah.
38. CE. Boothii, Dougl. With the habit of the last, but viscidly
pubescent; leaves ovate, i-1' long, acuminate or acute, denticulate,
shortly petioled ; calyx-tube 1 - 3" long ; petals 2 - o" long ; capsules
linear-fusiform, 6 - 9" long, 1" broad at base and attenuate upward,
much contorted ; seeds brownish, angled, very minutely tuberculate,
over \" long. — Eastern Oregon to Northern Nevada.
39. 03. gaur-eflora, Torr. & Gray. Erect, often stout, | - 2°
high, simple or branched, glabrous, or the calyx, ovary, and younger
