592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
leaves sparingly puberulent, the bark becoming white, shining and
loose ; leaves lanceolate or narrowly oblanceolate, acute or acuminate,
narrowed to a petiole, usually denticulate ; spike erect or somewhat nod-
ding, elongated, few - many-flowered ; calyx-tube and the obovate
petals 1| -3" long ; capsule linear-fusiform, 8-15" long, subtetragonal,
1" wide at base, and attenuate upward to a narrow beak ; seeds 1" long
or more, linear, angled, densely cellular-pubescent under the micro-
scope. — Southern California and Arizona.
* * Flowers yellow, turning green ; calyx-tube obconic ; capsules
linear, tetragonal, more or less contorted ; stems leafy throughout.
Annual or biennial.
40. (E. cheiranthifolia, Hornem. Spreading with decumbent or
ascending stems, often 2° long or more, canescently pubescent ; leaves
thick, h - 2|' (often less than 1') long, broadly ovate to oblong or lan-
ceolate, the radical and lower cauline leaves spatulate or oblanceolate
with a slender petiole, the upper very shortly petioled, sessile or clasp-
ing, acute or obtuse, mostly entire, sometimes obscurely denticulate ;
calyx-tube 1 - 1|" long ; petals 3-4" long ; capsule 4-8" long, attenuate
upward, curved, subhairy ; seeds ovate-oblong, \" long, acute at base,
smooth. — On the sea-coast, near San Francisco and southward. Like
many other species, beginning to flower when very small. It is said to
have come originally from Chili, and Gay mentions it as occurring in
several provinces of that republic. There are no Chilian specimens in
our herbariums, but the California plant accords essentially with the
early figures and descriptions.
Var. suffruticosa. ( (E. viridescens, Hook.) Woody at base and
perhaps perennial, densely hoary-tomentose or rarely glabrous ; leaves
mostly small, \ - V long, crowded ; flowers usually larger, the petals
4 - 9" long. — Sea-coast of Southern California, from Monterey to
Santa Barbara.
41. CE. bistorta, Nutt. Rather stout, subdecumbent or ascend-
ing 1-2° high, branched from the base, simple above, somewhat hir-
sute, the leaves sometimes appressed-pubescent ; radical leaves spatu-
late to lanceolate, petioled, the cauline mostly sessile, ovate to narrowly
lanceolate, about 1' long, acute or acutish, often obtuse and clasping
at base, all denticulate or dentate ; calyx-tube 1 - 3" long ; petals 4r- 7"
long ; usually with a brownish spot at base ; capsules 4 - 9" long, acute-
ly tetragonal, 1" or more wide, subattenuate at base and narrowed
