OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAT 13, 1873. 593
above to a short beak, much contorted ; seed dark, ovate-oblong, |"
long, smooth. — San Diego.
Var. (?) Veitchiana, Hook. A more slender, often very reduced
form ; radical leaves narrowly oblanceolate and long petioled, 2-4' long,
the cauline often attenuate to the base ; capsule more elongated and
narrower, less than 1" broad and 1 - lh' long, attenuate into a narrow
beak at the apex, less contorted. — Southern California; Los Angeles,
San Gabriel, San Diego, etc.
42. CE. micrantha, Hornem. Rather stout, erect or ascending
from a decumbent base, simple or branched, becoming 1|° high, more
or less hirsute ; leaves narrowly lanceolate to ovate, \ - 2' long, the
radical petioled, the cauline narrowed at base or cordate and clasping ;
flowers small, the calyx-tube 1" long or less, the petals 1 - 2" long,
obovate, entire or emarginate, or sometimes 3-toothed ; capsules 8-15"
long, acutely tetragonal, about 1" wide at base, attenuate upward to the
shortly beaked apex, usually much contorted ; seeds as in the last. —
Middle California, from the Sacramento to Fort Tejon.
* * * Flowers small, yellow, usually turning red ; calyx-tube very
short ; capsule elongated, very narrowly linear, slightly curved.
•43. GE. chamenerioides, Gray. Slender, erect, branching,
4-12' high, somewhat viscidly puberulent ; leaves distant, lanceolate,
1-2' long, the uppermost sessile, the lower petioled, obscurely repand-
denticulate ; spike loose, the bracts small ; calyx-tube 1" long or less,
the petals scarcely as long; capsules 1J-2' long, y thick; seeds
linear, y long, white and shining. — New Mexico and Arizona.
44. CE. dentata, Torr. & Gray. (Cav. ?) Slender, usually dif-
fusely branched, 1° high or less, more or less hirsute with short spread-
ing hairs, especially towards the base, the pubescence above often short-
er and somewhat glandular, or wanting; leaves linear, \ - 1J' long,
usually narrowed at base, denticulate ; petals 2-4" long, rounded, entire,
rarely reddening ; calyx-tube broadly obconic, \ — 1\" long ; capsule
1 — 1 y long, sessile, attenuate above into a slender beak ; seeds J" long,
smooth. — From Sacramento Valley to Southern California.
This is perhaps the CE. dentata of Cavanilles, though no similar Chil-
ian specimens are in our herbariums. Plants so named, collected in
Chili by Gay and Harvey, seem to be identical with the next species.
Cavanilles's figure represents a simple-stemmed form with flowers and
foliage nearly as in the Californian plant. The figure of Ruiz and
VOL. VIII. 75
