594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Pavon is yet more similar, but in both cases the stigma is figured and
described as short-lobed.
Var. cruciata. Petals narrowly obovate to oblong, 2" long, often
emarginate.
45. CE. strigulosa, Torr. & Gray. Nearly glabrous, the ovary
and calyx usually somewhat appressed-puberulent ; stems slender,
ascending or erect, simple or branched, 2' — 1° high; leaves linear or
lanceolate, 3 - 9" long, attenuate to the base, entire or sparingly den-
ticulate ; flowers very small, the petals 1 - 2" long, usually reddening ;
capsule 8 - 13" long, sessile or attenuate into a very short pedicel adnate
to the petiole, scarcely attenuate above, more or less curved ; seeds \"
long, smooth. — From the Columbia River to San Diego, California.
This includes the (E.parvula and siliquosa of Nuttall, and probably also
the CE. contorta of Hooker, which is the older name, but less appropriate.
Var. pubens. Pubescence hirsute and spreading, as in CE. dentata,
especially below, often subglandular above and shorter ; sometimes
nearly smooth. — From Washington Territory to Southern Califor-
nia, and through Northern Nevada to the Wahsatch.
* * * * Low ; flowers minute ; capsule fusiform, short.
46. CE. andina, Nutt. But 1-3' high, becoming diffusely
branched, canescently puberulent throughout ; leaves linear-spatulate,
i - 1' long, attenuate into slender petioles ; spikes mostly dense, many-
flowered, erect ; flowers 1" long, yellow ; capsules 3 - 6" long, attenuate
upward from near the base ; seeds linear-oblong, -J-" long, nearly smooth.
— From Eastern Oregon to Montana, Northern Nevada, and Utah.
§5. CHYLISMIA, Nutt. Stigma capitate ; calyx-tube funnelform
or obconic ; petals entire ; stamens unequal, with the oblong an-
thers attached near the middle ; capsules linear, subcylindrical or
subclavate, obtuse, membranous, not sessile and usually long-
pedicelled ; seeds ascending in a single row in each cell. Caules-
cent annuals.
* Racemes loose, naked, usually few-flowered ; seeds oblong-lauceo-
late, smooth.
47. CE. scapoidea, Nutt. Erect, 4 - 18' high, usually branching
from near the base, puberulent or subglabrous ; leaves mostly subradical,
long-petioled, lyrately pinnate or sometimes undivided, the terminal leaf-
let much the largest, ovate to oblong-lanceolate, cuneate or cordate at
base, irregularly sinuate-toothed, the prominent veins often dark-colored,
