596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
branched, more or less hispid-pubescent ; leaves oblong-lanceolate,
6 - 9" long, obtuse, entire ; calyx-tube very short, obconic ; petals ob-
cordate, rose-color, 1" long ; capsule cylindrical-clavate, 6 - 9" long,
attenuate at base into a spreading pedicel half as long ; seeds 1" long,
the margins thin and incurved, minutely cellularly tuberculate. —
Foot-hills of the Trinity Mts., Northwestern Nevada.*
§ 6. GODETIA, Spach. Stigma-lobes short, linear or roundish ;
calyx-tube obconic or short-funnelform ; petals flabelliform, lilac-
purple or rose-color ; stamens unequal, the petaline filaments the
shortest ; anthers oblong, fixed near the base, erect or becoming
arcuate ; capsules ovate to linear, subcoriaceous, 4-sided ; seeds
horizontal, in one row, angled, vertically compressed, partially
imbricated, and so the upper surface margined by a thin tuber-
culate crest. Annuals, simple or branching.
* Capsule ovate to oblong, sessile ; stems erect, leafy, usually stout
and strict, the flowers in a strict compacted spike, erect in the
bud.
52. CE. grandiflora. (Godetia, Lindl. (E. Whitneyi, Gray.)
Stem 1-2° high, simple or with a few short branches near the top ;
puberulent ; leaves lanceolate, 1-3' long, acute at each end or attenu-
ate into a short petiole, obscurely repand-denticulate or entire ; spike
crowded ; calyx-tube broadly obconical, 4 - 6" long, the tips not free ;
petals 1-2' long, broad, emarginate, rose-color or light purple with
often a large crimson spot in the centre ; stigma-lobes linear, 3" long ;
capsule fusiform-oblong, 8 - 15" long, 3- 4" broad, sessile or nearly so,
shortly pubescent, the sides, not costate ; seeds \" long, very minutely
pitted. — Humboldt and Mendocino Counties, California, on hillsides
and benches.
53. CE. purpurea, Curtis. Mostly very leafy, 1-2° high, canes-
cently puberulent, the ovary hirsutely villous ; leaves oblong to oblong-
lanceolate, 1-3' long, obtuse or acute, entire, sessile with an obtuse or
attenuate base ; flowers mostly in a leafy terminal cluster ; calyx-tube
* CE. arbokea, Kellogg, from the Cerros Islands, off the coast of Lower Cali-
fornia, is a well-marked species allied to those of this section. It is described as
suffrutescent, erect and branched, 6-8° high, with small linear-lanceolate sessile
entire villous leaves, flowers in dense erect spikes, the slender funnelform calyx-
tube 1' long (including the ovary ?), the purplish petals 3" long, capsules 3- 12"
long, 1^" broad, erect upon stout divaricate pedicels which are 3-6" long; the
seeds are linear-oblong, l£" long.
