40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
of Professor J. D. Forbes, and say : " His scientific glory is different in
kind from that of Young and Fresnel ; but the discoverer of the law of
polarization, of biaxial crystals, of optical mineralogy, and of double
refraction by compression, will always occupy a foremost rank in the
intellectual history of the age." His theory of only three primary
colors, which he proposed as a substitute for the seven primary colors
of Newton, though plausible and well sustained by his experiments,
has suffered more from neglect than from criticism, Helmholtz alone
having seriously undertaken to refute it. Outside of the range of Op-
tics, Brewster's most important contribution to science was a paper, pub-
lished in 1821, on the mean temperature of the globe and the close co-
incidence between the poles of maximum cold and maximum magnetic
dip. His first appearance, in 1806, before the commonwealth of science,
was with a criticism upon the demonstrations of the lever, as furnished
by Galileo, Huyghens, De la Hire, Newton, Maclaurin, Landen, and
Hamilton. The solution which he himself gives of this fundamental
problem in statics, if not unexceptionable, is certainly ingenious, and
indicates a mind well adapted for mechanical research.
Brewster's scientific labors sometimes assumed a practical turn. In
1831 he published, in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edin-
burgh, a memoir on the construction of Polyzonal Lenses for Light-
houses. As early as 1748, Buffbn had proposed a similar device
for burning-glasses. The execution of it was postponed for thirty
years, and then proved a failure even in the hands of Rochon. Con-
dorcet, in his eulogy upon Buffbn, pronounced in 1788, suggested a
modification of his plan, which consisted in building the lens up of sep-
arate rings. We next hear of the subject from Brewster in 1811.
But the British government were not ready to take the hint from
their scientific advisers until after Fresnel had presented to the French
Academy of Sciences, in 1822, his memoir on Lighthouses, and his
lamp and lens shot forth a blaze of light from the headlands of France.
The Kaleidoscope, which Brewster invented in 1817, delighted and
instructed all Europe at the time. Fashion may have dethroned it,
though once the ornament of the fair sex : but it has not outgrown its
popularity in the nursery, and time never can exhaust the fertility of
this invention in devising patterns for the manufactory. No less won-
derful, no less charming, is the Stereoscope, which, though invented by
Wheatstone, has been remodelled by Brewster in a way which has
brought it into the homes of millions, to delight, refine, and civilize all
ages and all classes.
