598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
in the centre ; stigma-lobes short, oblong, yellow ; capsules linear-
fusiform, y long, tapering from above the base to the apex, furrowed
over the sutures, and therefore 8-costate, puberulent. — Collected by
Bridges, Heermann, and Rattan, probably on the western flank of the
Sierra, from Fort Miller northward.
57. CE. quadrivulnera, Dougl. Usually very slender, erect or
ascending, 1-2° high, puberulent ; leaves linear to linear-lanceolate,
1—2' long, sessile or attenuate to a short petiole, entire or slightly
repand-denticulate ; calyx-tube obconic, 2" (rarely 3") long, the tips
slightly free ; petals 3 - 6" long, deep purple or purplish ; stigma-lobes
very short, yellow ; ovary and capsule hairy, the capsule linear, 5-10"
long, mostly short, attenuate at the apex, scarcely so at base, the sides
nearly flat, or channelled by the prominence of the sutures. — From
Puget Sound to San Luis Obispo.
58. CE. tenella, Cav. Erect, 6-18' high, puberulent; leaves
linear, £ - 2' long, acute or obtuse, more or less attenuate at base,
mostly entire ; calyx-tube shortly obconic, 1 - 3" long, the tips close or
slightly free ; petals 3 - h" long, deep purple ; stigma-lobes purple or
purplish, the style shorter than the stamens ; capsules puberulent,
8-12" long, attenuate above but not at base, the sides nearly flat. —
From Oregon to San Diego. No. 638 Brewer, from Monterey, seems
to be a reduced decumbent form. The Californian plant is apparently
identical with Chilian specimens collected by Gay, Bertero (469),
Harvey, and Gillies.
59. CE. viminea, Dougl. Near the last. Usually stout, 1-3° high,
branched, spreading-puberulent ; leaves linear to linear-lanceolate, .1 - 2'
long, narrowed at the base, entire ; calyx-tube 2 - 4" long, the tips
slightly free ; petals 9-12" long, deep purple or purplish ; capsule 9"
long, 8-costate, smoothish. — From the Columbia River to the Sacra-
mento, and in the mountains to the Yosemite Valley.
60. CE. Romanzovii, Ledeb. Rather stout, ascending or subdecum-
bent, 1|° high, leafy to the top, canescently puberulent, the ovary very
silky ; leaves oblanceolate, 1 - 2' long, petioled, entire or very obscurely
repand-denticulate ; calyx-tube very short, segments short, the tips not
free in the bud ; petals 6" long, purple ; filaments stout, the shorter sta-
mens with nearly sessile anthers ; stigmas not exserted beyond the ca-
lyx-tube ; capsule 8 - 9" long, attenuate at each end, sessile or slightly
pedicelled, the sides channelled between the prominent sutures. — Only
known from cultivated specimens, originally from seeds collected by
Chamisso on the " Northwest Coast."
