OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 43
Thus honored and trusted, lived, and labored, and died Sir David
Brewster ; a careful experimentalist, an elegant writer, a warm advo-
cate of what he believed to be the truth. In him Christian faith was
instructed by accurate science, and science was illuminated and in-
spired by Christian faith.
Sir William Lawrence, an Honorary Member of the Academy,
died on the 5th of July, 1867, aged 84. He was born at Cirencister,
near Gloucester, England, in 1783, and was educated at the Classical
School. In his seventeenth year he went to reside in the family of
Mr. Abernethy, to whom he was apprenticed. His official connection
with various hospitals began in 1801, when he was appointed Demon-
strator of Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's. In 1828, having steadily
advanced in reputation and honors, he succeeded Mr. Abernethy as
Lecturer on Surgery in that Hospital. In 1814 he was elected Sur-
geon to the Eye Infirmary, and in 1815 Surgeon to the Royal Hospi-
tals of Bridewell and Bethlem.
In 18G5, having been in constant service in these institutions for
more than sixty years, he resigned at the age of eighty -two.
Mr. Lawrence was Fellow of the Royal Society and Vice-Presi-
dent during the Presidency of the Duke of Sussex. He was a mem-
ber of the French Institute, and of other learned and scientific associa-
tions. In 1831 he was elected President of the " Medico-Chirurgieal
Society," and, in 1858, Surgeon to the Queen.
It is unnecessary on this occasion to enumerate the long list of his
works ; suffice it to say that from the year 1801 he was constantly en-
gaged in literary labors either in the form of contributions to various
journals or of elaborate treatises. His translation of Blumenbach, with
the addition of numerous notes and an introductory view of the classifica-
tion of animals on the basis of anatomical structure, was published in
1807, and gave the first impulse, in England, to the study of comparative
anatomy. He also contributed the anatomical and physiological ar-
ticles in Rees's Cyclopaedia. In 1819 appeared the "Lectures on the
Physiology, Zoology, and Natural History of Man." In this depart-
ment, in England, there had previously been very little investigation,
and this work excited great interest. It displays a vast amount of re-
search and knowledge, and is eminent authority at the present day.
Of the strictly professional works, the most important are the treatises
on Diseases of the Eye, on Hernia, and his most recent work on
Surgery.
