618
PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
CE. WrigMii; CE. Frcmontii.
Onngra ihrysuntha, muricata, and vul-
garis = CE. biennis.
0. Linkiana = CE. fruticosa, var.
Pachylophis Nultallii = CE. csespi-
tosa.
Sphcerostigma contortion and parvulum
= CE. strigulosa.
5. hirta = CE. micrantha.
S. spirale and viridescens = CE. chei-
• ranthifolia.
Xylopleurum, species = CE. speciosa.
Characters of New Ferns from Mexico. By Daniel C. Eaton.
Polypodidm Ghiesbreghtii. Caudice repente, penna anseriria
vix minore, palcis longissimis angustis mollibus pallide fulvis densis-
sime onusto ; stipite gracili levi 3-6 pollicari ; fronde subdeltoideo-
oblonga chartacea glauca tandem fulva spithamea ad pedalem, pro-
funde pinnato-lobata, segraentis oblongis obtusis vel acutiusculis,
terminati sat magno integro, lateralibus 5-9 paribus basi sursum cur-
rente confluentibus, 2-3 poll, longis, £ — £ poll, latis ; venulis Gonio-
pblebii, areolis costalibus soriferis, marginalibus parvis 1-2 seriatis,
soris majusculis mediis inter costara et marginem ; sporis reniformibus.
A very handsome fern somewhat related to P. loriceum, but abun-
dantly distinct from all the species to which I have been able to com-
pare it. Lowest segments nearly as large as any of the middle ones,
very slightly dettexed, subcordate on the lower side, the upper
side being extended as a broad wing along the rachis, in some speci-
mens fairly overlapping the subcordate basis of the next pair. In the
middle of the frond the segments are separated by a broad, rounded
sinus. The wing left on the costa is about half an inch wide, and bears
an occasional fruit-dot. The fronds are at first of a pale glaucous green,
but eventually, perhaps in drying, turn to a bright brown. The veins,
seen by transmitted light, are blackish where they leave the costula,
but become less visible toward the ed^e of the segments. When the
slender tips of the scales of the caudex are broken off they leave
ragged brownish imbricated scales, and when these are removed a pale-
bluish surface is discovered. The stem or petiole is very slender, per-
fectly smooth, and with the rachis is of a brownish straw-color. I
take great pleasure in naming this fine Polypotlium after its discoverer,
Dr. A. Ghiesbreght, who found it growing on oaks in the cooler region
of Chiapas. It is No. 273 of his distribution.
Poltpodium stenoloma. Glabrum ; stipite fusco subspithameo,
fere ad basin angustissime alato ; fronde membranacea, glabra, circum-
