OP ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 621
soft, membranaceous, apparently somewhat fleshy and loose, perhaps
margined, the micropyle extended beyond the marginal basilar hilum
as if into a broad rostellum. Embryo not fully developed in the speci-
mens. — The terminal stigma (which, so far as I know, is wholly
anomalous in Caryophyllacece), the Holosteum-Yxke inflorescence, the few
seeds, which are neither those of Holosteum nor of Arenaria, and the
suflrutescent growth, combine to justify the establishment of a new
genus for this plant. As it belongs to the Flora of California, which
he has for several years been engaged upon, and for which he has per
sonally collected most important and ample materials, I propose to
dedicate the genus to Professor William H. Brewer, of the California
Geological Survey and of Yale College. That he may not be deprived
of this well-earned honor on account of the old genus Breweria, I have
written the name Brewerina.
Aquilegia chrysantha. A. cceruleee, Torr. affinis, elatior (2 -
4-pedalis), floribunda ; floribus saturate flavis ; sepalis lanceolato-
oblongis limbo petalorum paullo longioribus haud latioribus. — A.
leptocera sar.Jlava Gray, PI. Wright. 2, p. 9 ; Bot. Mex. Bound, p. 30.
— Eastern New Mexico (Organ Mountains not far from El Paso,
Thurber, Wright ; and further north, Parry) to Arizona (Mabibi,
Parry, etc.). Also in South Utah ? A. L. Siler (fide Meehan). Now
in cultivation from seeds collected by Dr. Parry, and distributed
from the Botanic Garden of Harvard University. See American
Agriculturist for September, 1873, for an account of the plant, with
woodcut, etc. Upon first acquaintance with this plant in dried speci-
mens, I regarded it as a variety of the blue, long-spurred Aquilegia of
the Rocky Mountains, some forms of which are almost or entirely white-
flowered. In view of the diversity of color, and this more remarkable
deviation to yellow, I was the more disposed to follow Sir William
Hooker in preferring Nuttall's appropriate name of A. leptocera, trust-
ing that the A. leptoceras of Fischer might not be a good species. But
now that we have this golden Columbine in cultivation for the second
season, and can review its characters, we must conclude that it may
claim a distinct specific name, although the technical characters may
seem to be slender. Its geographical range is different ; it occupies a
more southern range, and is found at less elevation than A. ccerulea.
Here at Cambridge, at least, it is more hardy, probably because it
bears our summers better than its alpine relative ; and it endures our
winter perfectly. It is much taller, rising to the height of four feet in
