622 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
the rich and moist soil which it prefers ; it comes into flower nearly a
month later, branches freely into a panicle, and continues in bloom
through the whole summer. The color of the blossom is a clear yel-
low, the petals of a rather deeper hue than the sepals. The sepals
and the limb of the petals are not so ample as in A. ccerulea, the former
hardly exceeding an inch in length and five lines in width ; they barely
equal the latter in breadth, and do not much exceed them in length.
The long spurs are similar, very slender, and over two inches in length.
If the flowers individually are not so showy as those of A. ccerulea,
they make it up in their number and longer continuance, and are re-
markable for their color.
Wislizenia Palmeri. Foliis superioribus (an omnibus?) simpli-
cibus linearibus petiolo pluries longioribus ; floribus fructuque prae-
sertim majoribus ; valvis maturis oblongis nervosis circa extremitatem
truncatam echinatis. — On the Lower Colorado (California and Ari-
zona), Dr. Edward Palmer, 1869. This was overlooked in the naming
of Dr. Palmer's valuable collections, but is an abundantly distinct
species of this peculiar genus. The leaves, so far as seen, are simple,
but those at the base of the stem are unknown ; it may well be that they
are trifoliolate, inasmuch as several of its relations are in the habit of
bearing compound leaves below and simple ones toward the inflores-
cence. In this species they are commonly an inch and a half long and
only two lines broad. The valves or lobes of the fruit are fully two
lines long (twice the size of those of W. refracla) somewhat cyliudra-
ceous, many : nerved, very little reticulated, the truncate extremity
encircled by a row of five or six stout spinous tubercles.
Frankenia Jamesii (Torr. in herb.). Fruticosa, ramosissima,
pedalis, scabro-puberula ; ramis fastigiatis ; foliis linearibus marginibus
arete revolutis quasi-acerosis saepius punctatis ; petalis 5, lamina cune-
ata erosa ungui suboequilonga, appendiee parva ad apicem integrum
fere adnata ; staminibus 6 ; stigmatibus terminalibus ; ovulis 3 oblongo-
linearibus ex apice funiculi sub-basilaris proelongi pendulis. — Eastern
base of the Rocky Mountains, on rocks and bluffs, Colorado Terri-
tory, James in Long's Expedition, Fremont; near Pueblo, Brandegee,
J. H. Redfield, E. L. Greene. Western borders of Texas, C. Wright,
no. 626. — Wright's specimen is out of flower. It is named as above
by Dr. Torrey in my herbarium, on comparison with a fragment col-
lected half a century ago by Dr. James, which he had recently deter-
mined, but had not published. It is now characterized from excellent
