44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
The Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, comprising his own opinions
and those of men distinguished in that department, is a learned and
comprehensive exposition of the science of that period. The Treatise
on Hernia, probably the most important of his works, was first pub-
lished in 1806. It has passed through many editions, which were en-
riched by extensive observations in St. Bartholomew's Hospital. The
name of Mr. Lawrence will be always identified with the progress of
Surgical Science, and the treatise.on this subject will remain a monu-
ment to his learning and industry.
The late Sir Benjamin Brodie remarks that he " never knew one
who had a greater amount of information, not merely on matters relat-
ing to his profession, but on a great variety of other subjects."
" His personal appearance was striking and impressive ; he had a
tall, manly figure, and his head and features were models of intellectual
beauty and power."
His learning, eloquence, and genial disposition made his fireside
most attractive. He often expressed his admiration of our free institu-
tions, and many Americans will remember his generous, self-sacrificing
hospitality.
Pierre Francois Olive Rayer was born, March 7, 1793, of a
respectable Bourgeois family, at Saint Sylvain, near Caen, France.
After the necessary preliminary education, he commenced the study of
medicine, and was graduated Doctor of Medicine, at the age of twenty-
three, in Paris. He was a student and favorite pupil of M. Dumeril.
Among his contemporaries were Dupuytren, Corvisart, Velpeau, Louis,
Larrey, Trousseau and others, who have made the present century
such a brilliant epoch in the history of French medicine. He was
doubtless stimulated by their example and labors to constant effort
in his chosen career, but they owed as much to him as he to them.
Through persistent labor and conspicuous merit, he attained succes-
sively the highest professional and scientific positions. In 1825 he was
appointed to the medical staff of the Hospital of Saint Antoine. In
1832 he was transferred to the Hospital of La Charite. He was
selected by Louis Philippe as one of the consulting physicians of the
Royal household ; and in 1852 he was taken by the Emperor Napoleon
into the medical service of the Imperial family. Rapidly winning the
confidence of the community, he soon became known as one of the
largest pi'actitioners of medicine in Paris. He was elected into the
Academy of Medicine in 1823; and in 1843 he became a member of
