OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 623
specimens, in full blossom, collected on bluffs of the Arkansas, near
Pueblo, by my excellent correspondent, Rev. E. L. Greene. The
species is not only much more woody than the Californian F. grandi-
folia (which comes east into Nevada), but is peculiar in having the
ovules reduced to three, one for each placenta, and resupinate on very
long funiculi, which are inserted close to the base of the cell. The .
leaves are only 2 or 3 lines long, and much fascicled in the axils.
Limb of the (white) petals 2^ to 3 lines long.
Calandrinia. A little Portulacaceous plant of the Rocky Moun-
tains was several years ago inadvertently, not to say carelessly, referred
by me to the wrong genus, namely, Talinum pygmceum. This has since
been more or less confused with a nearly related species of the Cali-
fornian sierras. Both belong to Calandrinia, having persistent calyx
and estrophiolate seeds, and are of the type of C. acuvlis and some
other South American species. Characters are appended.
Calandrinia pygmjea. Acaulescens, glaher; caudice crasso
(fusiformi vel napif'ormi) ; foliis rosulatis linearibus ba-i attenuatis
scapis (plurimis 1 -2 -pollicaribus) medio bibracteatis 1 - 3-floris longi-
oribus ; sepalis suborbiculatis quasi-truncatis dentibus glandulosis in-
structis ; pelalis 6-8roseis inasqualibus ; staminibus soepius totidem ;
stigmatibus 3-5; stylo bre\i vel subnullo ; ovulis 15-20; seminibus
hevibus nitidis (vix semilineam latis). — Talinum pygmceum, Gray in
Engelm., Rep. Exped. Bryan., Sill. Jour. 33, p. 407, Proc. Amer.'
Acad. 7, p. 332 ; S. Watson, Bot. King, p. 42, pro parte. — Alpine
vcginn. Rocky Mountains of Colorado and Wyoming to the Sierra
Nevada in California, and Cascade Mountains, Washington Territory.
Calandrinia Nevadensis. Major; scapis 2-4- pollicaribus folia
>aq>ius adn?quantibus, fructiferis apice incrassatis ; sepalis orbiculari-
ovatis nunc apiculatis margine integerrimis vel obsolete denticulatis ;
petalis 6-9 albis ; staminibus fere totidem; ovulis 30-40; seminibus
(^ unc. diam.) plerumque numero-is : cast. prrecedentis. — Talinum
pygmceum, S. Watson, 1. c. pro parte. — Subalpine region of Wah-
satch and East Humboldt Mountains, S. Watson, and Sierra Ne-
vada, California, at Summit and Cisco, Kellogg and Bplander. —
Flowers about twice the size of those of C. pygmcea, the calyx 3 or 4,
and in fruit 5, lines long.
Pachystima Canbyi. Surculoso-repens ; foliis oblongo-linearibus
parce denticulatis; pedicellis h'liformibus elongatis ; petalis oblongo-
ovatis ; stylo brevi.-simo. — Giles County, Virgiuia, on a bluff at the
