624: PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
" New River White Sulphur Springs," William M. Canby. — It is
full time that this interesting accession to our Eastern United States
flora should be published. While the original P. Myrsinites * occurs
plentifully in most wooded districts from the Rocky Mountains to
the Pacific in Northern California and Washington Territory, this is
known at only one station in the Alleghany Mountains, and makes an
addition to the list of those few genera (such as Boykinia and Calycanthus)
which are divided between Eastern and Western North America.
Mr. Canby discovered the Alleghanian species in 1868, and obtained
flowering specimens upon a second visit to the station in the spring of
1869. It was submitted both to Dr. Torrey and to Dr. Curtis. The
former determined the genus and indicated the specific characters ; the
latter proposed that it should bear the discoverer's name. Both these
eminent botanists having passed away without taking any steps in the
matter, it is left for me to carry their intentions into effect, and to con-
nect with this well-marked species the name of its sole discoverer, one
of the most active and excellent of our botanists of this generation.
The following note respecting the station, which Mr. Canby has fur-
nished, will be useful to botanists who may, it is hoped, make this
most rare new species commonly known, and even bring it into culti-
vation, f
Linum adenophyllum. Hesperolinon, annum, fere glaberrimum ;
caule tenui effuse paniculato ; pedicellis filiformibus flore 2-3-plo lon-
* Pachystima Myrsinites Eaf. Erecta, dumosa, 1-2-pedalis; foliis ovali-
bus ovato-lanceolatis vel fere oblanceolatis magis serratis ; pcdunculis (pauci-vel
plurifloris) pedicellisque brevibus ; petalis late ovatis ; stylo subulato. — Not being
able to make out the etymology of the generic name, I am in doubt as to its gender.
It may be neuter instead of feminine, as I have assumed it to be.
f I first saw this plant in August, 1858, on the top and near the edge of a jag-
ged and very picturesque bluft" of limestone rock, of about four hundred feet in
perpendicular height, which causes a very abrupt bend in the " New River," flowing
at its base. It is in Giles County, Virginia, at a place of summer resort called
" The New River White Sulphur Springs." The top of the bluff and the hill
beyond are covered with a forest of deciduous trees and cedars. Below in the clefts
and in the shelves of the rock are found plentifully Sedum telephioides, S. Nevii,
Gray, Armaria }><\tnt<t, Michx., Phacelia parvijiora, Pursh, and other interesting
plants. At the time mentioned, Pachystima was neither in flower nor fruit. But
again visiting the locality about the middle of May, 1869, I had the <:ood fortune
to hud it in flower and a single specimen with an immature capsule, which at that
stage of growth appears very much like that of P. Myrsinites Raf. w. m. c.
