626 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
But a comparison which has been obligingly made at Kew with
the unique original specimen belonging to the Herbarium of Trinity
College, Dublin, shows that to be a different species, of more
southern habitat, to which a specimen collected by Dr. Horn in
Ovvens's Valley or at Fort Tejon seems, to belong. . As the species now
at length discriminated and characterized was probably (after Mr.
Bridges) first collected by the chief and Nestor of our science, of
whom we have just been bereaved, it may most appropriately bear his
venerated name.*
Astragalus Lemmoni. Oroboidei : striguloso-puberulus ; cauli-
bus e radice perenni adscendentibus diffusis gracillimis 1 - 2-pedalibus
ramosis; foliolis plerisque 5-jugis lineari-oblongis (lin. 4 longis); sti-
pulis discretis triangulari-lanceolatis petiolo brevi saepius aaquilongis ;
pedunculis folium adaequantibus ; racemo spiciformi oblongo densi.-
floro ; floribus patentissimus parvis (lin. 3 longis) ; calycis dentibus
attenuato-subulatis tubo campanulato ajquilongis ; vexillo emarginato
* The Euhosaclcice vera,, with obviously pinnate leaves and developed stipules,
may readily be distinguished as follows : —
Stipules ample and foliaceous : the umbel many-flowered :
calyx-teeth short.
Very silky-villous : leaf-like bract near the umbel . . H. incana.
Villous-pubescent and viscid : the bract or leaf remote . H. stipularis,
Stipules scarious.
Bract much below the many-flowered umbel : calyx-teeth
very short H. crassifolia.
Bract (when present) borne at the summit of the
One -four-flowered slender peduncle.
Leaflets 5 - 9, obovate or linear : bract 3-foliolate . H. angustifolia.
Leaflets 5-7, linear-lanceolate, acute at both ends :
bract 1-foliolate or none H. lathyroides.
Several- (5 - 10-) or only from the lowest axils 2-4-flow-
ered peduncle.
Minutely appressed-pubescent, except below : bract 1 -
foliolate : corolla yellow and purplish . . H. oblongifolia.
Soft or silky -pubescent : bract 1 -3-foliolate : vexillum
yellow; wings and keel white . . ... H. Torreti.
Glabrous throughout or nearly so : claws of the petals
elongated.
Bract none, or a scarious rudiment : vexillum and
keel yellow; wings white .... H. bicolor.
Bract 3-foliolate ; vexillum yellow ; keel and wings
rose-purple H. gracilis.
