OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 627
carina duplo longiore ; stylo brevi ; stigmate capitato ; ovario semi-
bilocellato 8-ovulato ; legumine subcoriaceo parvo (lin. 2\ longo) ovato-
oblongo haud stipitato puberulo bilocellato, sutura dorsali intrusa,
ventrali acuta, sectione transversa obcordata. — Sierra Valley, Sierra
County, California, J. G. Leramon, communicated by Dr. Bolander. —
I am uncertain whether this was collected by Mr. Leramon, or by Dr.
Bolander himself; but it belongs to a collection from an interesting
district of the Sierra Nevada, a part of which was gathered by Mr.
Leramon, who first botanized in this valley ; wherefore the present
very distinct species may well bear his name. The stigma is unusually
large for an Astragalus, and distinctly capitate. The raceme does not
elongate in fruiting. The corolla is seemingly white, with a tinge of
purple, and perhaps of yellow.
Ivesia Muirii. Nana (tantum pollicaris e caudice crasso) ; foliis
confertis scapura 1 - 2-bracteatum capitato-pauciflorum subasquantibus
myosuroideis, nempe foliolis 3-5-sectis segmentisque minimis sub-
rotundis sericeo-villosissimis rhachin arctissime imbricantibus ; peta-
lis flavidis parvis demum lanceolatis calyce brevioribus ; staminibus 5
brevibus ; receptaculo circa carpella 2 longe villoso. — The foliage con-
siderably resembles that of I. santolinoides on a dwarfed scale, and
is equally silky. In all other respects it is of the same type as I.
pygmcza and I. lycopodioides, but it has much smaller petals, which are
said by the collector to be " yellow." They are only a line long ; and
the calyx, when spread out, 3 lines in diameter. Filaments half the
length of the calyx-lobes. I have with pleasure named this little plant
after my friend and valued correspondent, Mr. John Muir, an ardent
explorer of the Sierras, especially of their glacial phenomena. He
discovered it in 1872 on Mount Hoffmann, at the altitude of 9,500 feet.
The specimen is just coming into blossom, and the scape is likely to
be sometimes taller.
LONICERA. Some notes upon the Western American species are
here appended.
§ Caprifolium. The Pacific North American species are appar-
ently only two, namely : —
L. ciliosa Poir. {Caprifolium Pursh), of which L. occidentalis
{Caprifolium Lindl. Bot. Reg. t. 1457) is a synonym. Oregon.
L. hispidula Dougl. Caprifolium hispidulum Lindl. Bot. Reg.
t. 1761. This reaches from the Columbia River through California,
in a multitude of forms, to many of which the specific name is wholly
inappropriate. The original, or
