628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Var. Douglasii, includes also L. microphylla, Hook. Fl. Bor.-Am.
That passes along the drier coast of California into
Var. subspicata, L. subspicata Hook. & Arn. ; Torr. Bot. Mex.
Bound, p. 71, t. 29 ; — a bushy and small-leaved form, with glandular
pubescence on the inflorescence, calyx, and corolla.
Var. interrupta, L. interrupta Benth. PI. Harwegianas, is like it,
but glabrous and mostly glaucous ; the filaments perhaps less hairy
at base.
Var. vacillans, L. Califomica Torr. & Gray, includes various
mostly stronger-growing, larger-leaved, and more climbing forms, with
or without the spreading scattered hairs, and the inflorescence, calyx,
etc., either conspicuously or obscurely glandular, — passing on one
hand into the last, on the other into the first variety or form.
§ Xylosteum DC. (Xylosteum Adanson.) The limb or teeth of
the calyx cannot properly be said to be " deciduous " in any North
American species except L. involitcrata.
L. INVOLUCRATA, Banks, was published one year earlier than the
volume which contains the character of L. Ledebourii of Eschscholtz,
although the latter's paper was communicated to the St. Petersburg
Academy two years before. The ample involucre consists of the
common pair of large foliaceous bracts, and within, decussating with
these, a pair of rounded and more scarious bractlets to each flower,
generally connate two and two by their contiguous edges.
L. c^erulea L. Peduncle very short ; bracts subulate and longer
than the completely combined ovaries; bractlets none ; corolla obscure-
ly bilabiate, yellowish-white. In the Sierra Nevada of California and
northward in Oregon occurs the form with villous corolla, as in Eastern
Asia. In New England and north of it the corolla is nearly glabrous,
and also shorter.
L. ciliata Muhl. Peduncles slender; bracts subulate and minute;
bractlets obsolete ; corolla yellowish-white, obscurely bilabiate, the lobes
short ; ovaries distinct. Confined to the northern line of the Atlantic
States and Canada; excepting Lyall's specimens from Pend Oreille
River, British Columbia, which appear to be of this species, although
the branches are erect and the leaves obtuse.
L. Utahensis Watson, Bot. King, p. 133, is still uncertain for want
of good flowers. By the foliage, bracts, etc., it might be this north-
western form of the preceding ; but the single withered flower found is
only half as large, apparently purplish, and shortly but distinctly bila-
