632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
alous plant. I had in the first instance, as is stated, referred it to this
genus ; but afterwards, learning that the flowers were " of the color of
yellow beeswax," had thought it necessary to place it in the Senecionees ;
and accordingly, in Proc. Am. Acad. 7, p. 361, I published it under
the name of Cacalia Nardosmia, in view of the striking resemblance of
the leaves to those of Nardosmia palmata, Hook., although the charac-
ters of the modern Cacalia were equally repugnant to yellow flowers.
The great number of flowers in the head and their size are noteworthy
peculiarities of the Californian species.
Carphephorus Cass. The character " pappi setae 2 - 3-seriata3,
elongatae, inaequales, scabra? vel breviter barbellataj," in Gen. PL p. 249,
applies only to the Atlantic United States species (and in them, even,
the pappus is hardly more copious than in some species of Brickellia).
As to the Californian species, Bentham himself ascribed to G. junceus
"setis circa 15 longe et molliter phimosis," and C. atriplicifolius is
just the same in these respects ; the setae are equal, rather stout, and
in a single rank. The Californian species have a different habit, op-
posite leaves at the lower part of the branching stems, and shorter
(but still spreading) lobes to the corolla, which apparently is not " pur-
ple" ; since Dr. Cooper notes the flowers of G. junceus as yellow, —
probably ochroleucous. Indeed, these Californian species are more
closely related to Brickellia than the genuine Carphephorus is to Lia-
tris, and still more to Kuhnia, into which they would fall if (as in
Ayeratum, etc.,) we were to disregard the chaff" of the receptacle. So
they may best be left where they are, but under a distinct section,
Kuhnioides.
Brickellia Ell. : p. 247. The bristles of the pappus are never so
much as "breviter plumosai," or perhaps even " subplumosae " (as in
PI. Wright.) : these phrases doubtless came from De Candolle's "barbel-
lato-plumosa3 " in the character of Clavigera, which was too strong.
Xanthocephalum Willd., including Xanthocoma HBK., is well
made to include our Gutierrezia yymnospermoides, PL Wright. But
by the same rule it must also comprise G. Wriyhtii Gray, PL Wright.
2, p. 78 ( = Xanthocephalum Wriyhtii), and yet the line to draw be-
tween the two genera will not be perfectly clear.
Gutierrezia Lag. is held to comprise Amphipappus as well as
Amphiachyris. The close relationship of the former with the latter is
undoubted ; but it is better to separate the two species from Gutierrezia,
on account of the sterile disk, with almost if not quite setose pappus.
