OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 13, 1873. 633
Amphiaclnjris dracunculoides Torr. & Gray, and A. Fremontii (Am-
phipappus Fremontii Torr. & Gray) constitute the species.
Pf.ntach.eta Nutt. — P. gracilis Benth. in Ic. PI. t. 1101, judg-
ing from the figure and description, cannot be of this genus. The
style-branches, even if " not quite so obtuse as represented in the
plate," altogether want the long linear-filiform appendage surmounting
the short and flat stigmatiferous portion, and, with the opposite leaves
toward the base of the stem (and, I may add, the beard represented
on the lobes of the disk-corolla), as Mr. Bentham remarks, connect it
technically, and it seems to me really, with Helenioidece. It appears
to be a species of Oxypappus.
As to Pentachceta itself, I find no bilabiation or obliquity in the disk-
corollas, such as Nuttall mentions. And there are two species, which
may be well distinguished, namely : —
Pentach.eta aurea Nutt., from San Diego and the vicinity, has the
heads perhaps always many-flowered (but the size of the head, and
number of the flowers varying greatly), and the scales of the involucre
are acute or acuminate and well imbricated, the exterior successively
shorter ; the rays are golden yellow, and it is not known that the
pappus is ever abortive.
Pentachceta exilis (not a happy name for the larger forms) has
the scales of the involucre less scarious, oblong or oval, obtuse, but
often mucronate-tipped, all nearly equal in length; -the rays very
light yellow ; pappus as in the original species, or in some specimens
(mixed with the others) some or all of the bristles short or obsolete.
This equally occurs in those with rather large and many-flowered
and those with few-flowered heads. Either form may be rayless
and homogamous. But some specimens have barely 3 to 5 pistillate
flowers, which are destitute of ligule, the tube of the corolla only re-
maining. These are Apkantochceta exilis, Gray in Bot. Whippl. (Pacif.
R. R. Expl. 4), t. 11, which must be viewed as an occasional and
reduced state of a full-rayed species. It is only in the small and
mostly rayless forms that the corollas seem to turn purplish.
Xanthisjia DC. It appears on the whole most proper to reinstate
this genus, although a transition to Aplopappus is afforded by the sec-
tion Prionopsis, which seemingly is best restricted, as proposed, to A.
ciliatus. — The following is still more worthy of generic separation,
and should be ranked rather with genera having paleaceous than with
those of setose pappus.
VOL. VIII. 80
