634 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
ACAMPTOPAPPUS, Nov. Gen.
Capitulum homogamum, 12 — 30-florum. Involucrum hemisphaari-
cum ; squamis imbricatis triserialibus concavis appressis coriaceo-char-
taceis obtusissimis margine scarioso eroso-fimbriolato limbatis sub apice
macula viridula notatis caeterum albidis, extirais orbicularis, intimis
oblongis. Receptaculum subconvexum alveolatura, alveolis fimbril-
latis. Corolla? infundibuliformes, limbo 5-lobo. Antherae Asterinea-
rum. Styli rami complanati, appendice triangulari-subulata hirtella
terminati. Achenia turgido-turbinata, sericeo-villosissima (sub lana
'eviter 5-nervia). Pappus paleaceo-setosus, nempe, ex aristis setisve
numerosis, 12 - 18 validioribus (achenio corollaeque aequilongis) com-
planatis subclavellatis, creteris brevioribus gracilioribus. — Suffrutex
ramosissimus, angustifolius, glaber, capitulis subcorymbosis, floribus
luteis.
A. sph^erocephalus. Aplopapptis (Acamptopappus) spkcero-
cephalus Gray, PI. Fendl. p. 76 ; Torr. in Pacif. R. R. Expl. 7,
p. 12, t. 6.
Lessingia Cham, is a well-marked but very peculiar genus, which
Mr. Bentham might perhaps have placed near to Hinterhubera, had
he been aware that only the original species has yellow flowers. The
other four are indeed homochromous, but cyanic, and also homoga-
mous. Moreover, even L. Germanorum is not truly heterogamous ;
the anthers of the marginal flowers being present, and, I believe, com-
monly polleniferous. The flowers, at least in L. leptoclada, the only
one I have seen in the living state, have a peculiar Centaurea-like
aspect quite unlike anything Asteroideous ; yet I should still maintain
that it is more nearly related to Corethrogyne than to any other genus
known to me. This relationship is manifested in the attenuated anther-
tips, as well as in the style-branches, achenia, foliage, involucre, etc.
From Bentham's notes : " Species 4 California? Mexicique incola?," and
" Achoenia glabra v. sericea," one may suppose that there is a Mexi-
can species, still undescribed, which has glabrous achenia. These are
silky hairy in all the Jive described species.
Aplopapptts. No doubt the name should have been written Hap-
lopappus ; but as Cassini in founding the genus dropped the aspirate,
and De Candolle followed him, it seems hardly necessary to go with
Endlicher and Bentham in restoring it. The genus, like its analogue
Aster, comprises very diverse forms, too intimately and variously con-
nected to warrant the generic separations which have been attempted.
