OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 45
the Academy of Sciences as the successor of M. Morel Vincte. In
1862 he was appointed to fill the newly created chair of Comparative
Medicine, and about the same time was chosen Dean of the Medical
Faculty of the University of Paris. He was President of the Cen-
tral Committee of Public Hygiene, and also of the General Associa-
tion of the physicians of France. In 1855 he was elected an Honorary
Member of this Academy. Among the various marks of honor which
the Emperor conferred upon him was that of Commander, and, when
he resigned the place of Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, that of
Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor. In connection with Bernard,
Robin, Lebert, and one of our own associates, C. E. Brown-Sequard,
he was one of the founders of the Society of Biology, — - a society
which has probably contributed of late years more than any other to
a just and comprehensive study of life in all its manifestations. He
was the animating spirit of this Society, and was most properly made
its perpetual President.
But it is not the honors with which he was crowned, or the respon-
sible posts which he filled, or the elevated social position to which he
attained, that entitle M. Rayer to our especial regard. His best
monument is to be found in his published works. Soon after his
graduation he published a brief Summary of Pathological Anatomy.
This was followed in a short time by memoirs on a variety of medical
subjects, such as a note on the Coryza of Nursing Infants ; a monograph
on Delirium Tremens ; a History of the Epidemic of Miliary Sweat,
which prevailed in the Departments of Oise, and of the Seine and
Oise, in 1821 ; and a number of smaller treatises. In 1835 he put
forth a more elaborate work than any of the above memoirs. It was
entitled " A Theoretical and Practical Treatise on Diseases of the
Skin, founded on Original Anatomical and Pathological Researches."
This was in two volumes, and was accompanied with an atlas of
colored plates. The value of the work was attested by the appearance,
in a short time, of a second edition, which was enlarged to three
volumes, with a corresponding addition to the atlas of illustrations.
At the time of its appearance, this work was a most important addi-
tion to Dermatology, and prepared the way for the minute and careful
studies of later observers.
The function and diseases of the kidneys early attracted the atten-
tion of M. Rayer. The result of his studies in this direction appeared
in what was the capital work of his life, and which he called, " A
