OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 635
Like Aster, too, it has a few annual or biennial species, so that Xan-
thisma is not supported by this subsidiary character. Bentham makes
Aplopappus include all the groups which I have referred to it, except-
ing Nuttall's Ericameria and Macronema. I have endeavored to
adopt his view while now revising the North American species, but I
find it impossible to do so. Neither the style-appendages (which are
" long and narrow " in many an admitted North American species), nor
the form and nature of the involucre and number of flowers it contains,
nor the form of the achenia, nor the texture of the pappus, nor the
habit, taken singly or in any practicable combination, enable me to
draw any clear line of separation. Nor is the line which must be
drawn for the demarcation of Bigelovia (Ckrysotkamnus) any less arbi-
trary when we have two bordering genera to deal with instead of one.
One of Nuttall's species of Macronema closely connects Ericameria
with other sections of Aplopappus, and the other with Chrysothamnus ;
while, as to Chrysopsis, a pretty well marked genus is rendered vague
by the admission of species of a different habit and no external pappus.
It should be noted that Bentham's section Haplodiscus is not De
Candolle's Aplopappus sect. Aplodiscus, the typical species of which
is referred to Bigelovia ; while the other proves to be a Baccharis.
Bentham's doubt whether Aplopappus marginatus Griseb. Cat. PI.
Cub. belongs to the genus, or has yellow rays, is well founded. Mr.
Wright's tickets preserved here, as well as the one cited by Grisebach,
state that the rays are white ; and the plant is doubtless an Aster of
the Oxytripolium section, allied to A. Chapmanii and A. Jlexuosus
of Nuttall, i. e. A. tenuifolius Linn.
Recent collections have furnished the following additions to the
Ericameria sections : —
Aplopappus (Ericameria) cuneatus. Fruticosus, ut videtur
depressus, caespitoso-ramosissimus. glaber, mox glutinosus ; ramis flori-
dis ad apicem usque foliosis ; foliis cuneatis vel spathulato-dilatatis
(apice lato truncato vel emarginato) integerrimis crassis resinoso-
punctatis eveniis, costa vix prominula; capitulis subcorymbosis 20 -24-
floris ; involucri turbinati squamis pluriseriatis lanceolatis carinato-
uninerviis chartaceo-coriaceis, interioribus marginibus apiceque leviter
scariosis disco brevioribus, exterioribus sensim brevioribus ; ligulis circa
3 discum baud superantibus ; appendicibus styli angustis parti stigma-
titera? requilongis ; acheniis lineari-oblongis compressis parce hirsutis ;
p;ippo parum rigido sordido. — California, in " Bear Valley, alt. 4,500
