636 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
feet, Sept.," Kellogg, Bolander, etc.; no. 402 of Kellogg and Har-
ford's distribution. — Heads half an inch long. Scales of the invo-
lucre more numerous, narrower, and less obtuse than those of A.
ericoides. Achenia apprently broader and more decidedly com-
pressed than in that species ; the pappus similar. Leaves from a
quarter to half an inch long, thick and rigid.* — A similar or perhaps
the same species was collected in Arizona by Dr. E. Palmer in 1870,
but without flowers.
Aplopappus (Ericameria) pinifolius. Fruticosus, 2 - 4-peda-
lis, glabratus, vix glutinosus; ramis fastigiatis usque ad capitulum
solitarium foliosissimis ; foliis fere acerosis (plerisque pollicavibus) pi.
m. punctatis ; involucro campanulato foliis summis capitulum ad-
sequantibus vel superantibus involucrato, squamis propriis ovato-
vel oblongo-lanceolatis acuminatis coriaceis rigidis, margine tantum
scarioso ; ligulis circiter 20 brevibus angustis ; appendicibus styli fili-
formibus parte stigmatifera brevioribus ; ovariis linearibus fere glabris;
pappo rigidiusculo albo. — Near Los Angeles, in a dry river-bed,
Bolander, 1873. — The leaves most resemble those of A. laricifolius,
but are still more narrow, or those of Bigelovia arborescens. Head
always solitary at the summit of a very leafy branch, about four lines
high. Most of them in the few specimens received are abnormal,
having chaff on the receptacle, and the flowers they subtend often
pistillate and ligulate, instead of hermaphrodite and tubular : others
are in a normal condition.
Aplopappus (Ericameria) Bloomeri, Gray. To this, and not
to Nuttall's Ericameria resinosa, belongs the plant figured in the
Botany of Wilkes's Expedition, plate 10, under the name of " Aplo-
pappus resinosus."
Nardophylltjm genistoides, Dolichogyne genistoides Philippi in
Lmnasa, 28, p. 738. This striking species occurs in the collection of
the United States Pacific Exploring Expedition under Wilkes, with no
ticket indicating habitat. It is now evident that it must have been
gathered in the Andes near Santiago, Chili. The specimens have
lanceolate (rather than oblong-linear) leaves, with a cuspidate tip, and
the heads are fully an inch long. Bristles of the pappus conspicu-
ously barbellate towards the summit.
* All the flowers of one head exhibited a singular monstrosity of the corolla,
namely, five or sometimes three or four ligulate lobes outside of the ordinary lobes,
and inserted on the middle of the tube, forming an accessory circle of parts, equal-
ling in length the true corolla.
