OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 637
Chrysothamnus, Nutt. This is the name adopted in the Genera
Plantarum for the group containing not only the Chrysothamnus of
Nuttall, and all the species which I have at various times generically
combined with it under the name of Linosyris (Schlechtendal having
led the way with a Mexican species), but also Bigelovia DC, as re-
stricted in Torr. & Gray's Flora. All this consolidation is evidently
necessary, as also the separation of these American species from
Linosyris of the Old World, the species of which, by the occasional
production of heterochromous rays, are now proved to belong to
Galatella, i. e. to Aster in the largest sense. But Chrysothamnus is a
much later name than Bigelovia, which, as Bentham cursorily indicates
in the appendix, is to be adopted. The genus, as now received, is
nearly as polymorphous or composite as Aplopappus itself, from which
at more than one point it is quite arbitrarily separated. On the other
hand, it is as arbitrarily distinguished from the Euthamia subgenus of
Solidago, B. diffusa and B. arborescens sometimes developing a small
ray or two. As these species have lanceolate or even broader style-
appendages, achenia which are not very slender and taper to the base,
and ampliate rather deeply cleft limb to the corolla, we have to rely
upon the unequal bristles of the pappus and the woody habit to keep
them out of Solidago. The typical Bigelovia and all the genuine
Chrysothamni partake of the character which is so strikingly displayed
in B. pidchella, Bigelovii, and depressa, namely, the imbrication of the
scales of the involucre in five (rarely four) strict vertical ranks. The
slender style-appendages of Ericameria also characterize the section
Chrysothamnus and another group which lies between the two ; while
the original Bigelovia has the style as well as the habit of Solidago,
section Euthamia. The cusp in the centre of the receptacle of B.
nudata occurs (sometimes in a more chaffy form) in the original speci-
mens of B. Bigelovii, also in those recently received from Mr. Greene,
but not in those collected by Dr. Parry ; and it is represented by some
chaff-like extensions of the alveoli in B. Bolanderi, as also by the
setiform elongated frimbrillae in B. diffusa. The achenia are at least
5-nerved in almost all the species ; several have intermediate, usually
more slender nerves.
In the subjoined revision, the first section ends with species which
are ambiguous between Bigelovia and Solidago, and the whole with
the better characterized but very Soliclagineous original species.
