OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 13, 1873. 645
•
numerous inseparable forms, of which the most marked deviations
from the general type are : —
Var. glabrata. ( Linosyris graveolens var. glabrata Engelm.) Pri-
mum tomento tenui cinerea, mox glabrata viridis ; involucri squamis
sa?pius angustioribus subacutis ; corolla? lobis paullo longioribus.
Var. latisquamea. Iuvolucri squamis latioribus obtusissimis ;
corolla? lobis brevissimis. — New Mexico, Dr. Bigelow, Dr. Henry.
Inner scales papery and glabrous, the short outer ones tomentose.
Var. hololeuca. Undique cano-tomentosa, 'involucri squamis
angustis obtusissimis ; corolla? lobis brevissimis, tubo pilis parcis longis
arachnoideis instructo. — Owens' s Valley, interior of California, Dr.
Horn. (No. 2852, distrib. Brewer.)
Var. albicaulis. Caule dense lanato ; foliis glabrescentibus ; in-
volucri squamis glabris obtusiusculis ; corollas lobis longiusculis, tubo
pilis crebris longis arachnoideis villoso. — Ckrysothamnus speciosus
var. albicaulis Nutt. 1. c. Linosyris albicaulis Torr. & Gray, 1. c. —
Rocky Mountains, Nuttall, Burke. In most flowers of the species
there is a variable amount of short and stronger hairs on the tube of
the corolla. In this they are peculiar for their length and cobwebby
character. Traces of the same I have now met with in some different
forms, notably in the preceding. The form of the corolla-lobes also
varies unconformably with other characters, being in some no longer
than broad, in others twice or thrice longer.
23. B. Douglasii. Fruticosa, subpedalis ad orgyalem, fastigiato-
ramosa, glabra vel [scabro-puberula (nunquam lanosa) ; foliis aut an-
gustissime aut latiuscule linearibus lanceolatisve rigidulis ; capitulis
lin. 4-5 longis conferte cymosis ; involucri squamis oblongis seu la-
tiuscule linearibus obtusis ; corolla? limbo ad medium usque 5-lobo ;
appendicibus styli angusto-subulatis parte stigmatica dimidio breviori-
bus ; acheniis breviusculis deorsum angustatis ; pappo satis rigidulo. —
Crinitaria viscidijlora Hook. Fl. Bor.-Am. 2, p. 24. Ckrysothamnus
viscidijlorus & pumilus Nutt. 1. c. Bigelovia viscidijlora DC. Prodr.
7, p. 279. Linosyris viscidijlora Torr. & Gray, 1. c. — Colorado Ter-
ritory and Wyoming to the Sierra Nevada, California, Oregon, and
Washington Territory. In referring it back to Bigelovia, I venture
to give a new specific name for this widespread species, the original
one being misleading. For, although the involucre may occasionally
be viscid with a resinous or balsamic exudation, it appears to be more
generally free from it than any other species of the section ; and the
