46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Treatise on Diseases of the Kidneys, and their Relations to Diseases
of the Bladder, the Prostate, and the Urethra." This was completed
in three volumes, and was illustrated by a folio atlas of sixty colored
plates. As soon as it appeared, it was received as the foremost book
of its kind. It was acknowledged as an authority in this country and
in England. Two separate translations of it into the German language
proved the value which German observers set upon it. Aided by the
microscope and the laboratory, later physiologists have gained a more
accurate knowledge of the pathology and physiology of the kidneys
than can be gathered from M. Rayer's work ; but this does not detract
from its value. It was a great addition to medical science.
Besides these labors, M. Rayer found time to investigate a depart-
ment of pathology that before him was almost unknown, or at least un-
explored, namely, that of Comparative Medicine. The chair of that
name, which was established by the Medical Faculty of Paris in 1862,
was immediately offered to him as the person best qualified to fill it.
His monograph on glanders and farcy in the human subject is unique of
its kind. The extent of his general knowledge of medicine is shown
by the fact of his being one of the authors of the " Dictionary of
Practical Medicine," a sort of medical encyclopedia in fifteen volumes.
He was, moreover, a frequent contributor to various scientific journals,
such as " Les Archives de Medecine Comparee " ; " Les Memoires de
l'Academie des Sciences " ; " Le Nouveau Journal de Medecine," etc.
It was said of M. Rayer, by one of his contemporaries, that " he was
not only distinguished by the works which he produced, but by those
which he inspired." The number of eminent men whose early studies
he directed and encouraged, and whose fortunes he sometimes aided in
most substantial ways, confirms the truth of this remark. Like Stahl
and Boerhaave, he loved to surround himself with a group of youthful
savans, whom he animated and guided. Claude Bernard, the inge-
nious and sagacious observer, who has contributed so largely to the ad-
vancement of physiology ; Robin, who has justly been called the creator
of French histology ; and Littre, whose translation of Hippocrates and
whose knowledge of historical medicine has earned for him so wide a
renown, — all were encouraged, substantially aided, and often guided in
their earlier and later studies by M. Rayer.
As a practitioner, he was one of the most successful of the French
physicians. It was said of him that he was first among scientific phy-
sicians and also first among medical practitioners. His acquaintance
