OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13, 1873. 647
Aster. We should receive the genus in all the extent it now re-
assumes, Machceranthera included, although that on the whole well
bears separation, as does Diplopappus section Triplopappus. But the
separation of Nuttall's Dieteria from the section Machceranthera and its
reference to Euaster does not seem to be called for. The general bi-
ennial or even annual character, which is foreign to true Aster, as well
as the tendency to pinnatifid or incised leaves, belongs to both alike ;
the style-appendages are narrow in both ; and the achenium of Dieteria,
equally with that of Machceranthera, has several slender nerves on the
faces, as well as a strong rib on each margin. I may here append the
note, that —
Aster tenuifolius Linn., as the Linnosan herbarium shows, and
the character confirms, is founded on the plant known as A. flexuosus
Nutt. To this alone (and not to Plukenet's plant) the phrase " pedun-
culis foliolosis " and the added descriptive notes relate.
Aster subulatus Michx. is truly the name to be preserved for
our common northern maritime Oxytripolium, the original A. linifo-
lius of Linnasus (Hort. Cliff, etc.) being really a Galatella.
Aster arenarioides D. C. Eaton, in herb., is the name which
should be borne by the plant described and figured as Eriyeron steno-
phyllum Eaton in Bot. King, p. 152, t. 17 (not E. stenophyllum Gray,
PI. Fendl.), a species which most resembles A. pauciflorus Nutt. in its
more slender form, but has only 2-nerved ovaries, a different glandu-
losity, etc. The akenes of A. pauciflorus are delicately 8 - 10-nerved.
Bentham's character of Oxytripolium needs extending iu this respect
on account of more than one species.
Brachyactis Ledeb. On the whole it seems clearly preferable to
adopt this genus ; but, as extended by Mr. Bentham, it includes two
types, of somewhat different affinities. The original B. ciliata has
lanceolate-subulate style-appendages, narrow and rather turgid achenia,
with a large epigynous disk and marginal nerves rather inconspicuous,
aud a simple pappus of copious equal bristles. To this, as I long ago
observed, belongs Tripolium anyustum Lindl. But I confounded with
it a second species, of more southern range, which Mr. Bentham has
now distinguished (as var. camosula, in Hook. Ic. sub 1106), and
which has not only broader and more foliaceous involucral scales, but
also distinct (purple) ligules much exceeding the style. As this must
be Nuttall's Tripolium frondosum, although his specimens are too young
to show it clearly, it may take the name of B. frondosa. These two
