648 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
species were not unnaturally associated with Aster ( Oxytripolium) lini-
folius, or rather subidatus.
Of the other species referred to the genus, I have had only B.
robusta Benth. and the figure of B. menthodora to examine. The. former
is more conyzoid in the involucre, as well as in the small number of
hermaphrodite flowers, has broad and obtuse style-appendages (as those
of B. menthodora are represented), broader and flat achenia with promi-
nent marginal ribs, and a pappus of two distinct sorts of bristles, those
of the outer set not longer than the width of the achenium.
Boltonia L'Her. is made by Bentham to include my Dichceto-
phora ; but the Californian species referred to it (p. 209) proves to be
Perityle Acmelld of PI. Fendl.
Erigeron Linn, is maintained in the wide sense to which we are
here accustomed. For our section Stenactis, Nuttall's name Phcenac-
tis is preferred, because Cassini's name was misapplied by Nees and by
De Candolle, and both the original Stenactis (Polyactis Less.) and the
leading one of Nees and De Candolle fall into Phalacroloma. That
leaves the name free for the employment that was made of it ; yet it is
right and clearer to keep up Nuttall's sectional name. But the section
itself does not very well hold out. As to Woodvillcea, the conjecture
that it is E. glaucum was long ago positively confirmed.
E. armeri^efolium Turcz., in an authentic Siberian specimen ex-
amined, wholly wants the internal filiform pistillate flowers (De Can-
dolle's and Turczaninow's remark which implies the contrary notwith-
standing) ; and to it clearly belongs E. glabratum var. minor Hook, (a
large form of which must be E. lonchophyllum Hook.), and E. racemo-
sum Nutr., at least in part, — a species which is not uncommon in the
Colorado Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Nevada. Hall and Har-
bour's 232 is a large form of it.
E. Bellidiastrum Nutt. Some careless determinations of mine,
confounding this with the very similar E. divergens, have misled Pro-
fessor Eaton into altering the character of the species by assigning to
it the double pappus of the latter. It has a simple and wholly decidu-
ous pappus, and its achenium is tipped with a broad and white epigy-
nous disk. Hall and Harbour's 246, Hall's Oregon 249, and the E.
Bellidiastrum of Bot. King, p. 150, all belong to E. divergens. Besides
the pappus, the receptacle in the more northern specimens of E. diver-
gens is strongly convex. It is less or slightly so in some forms, espe-
cially in E. cinereum Gray, PI. Fendl., which on the whole I cannot
