OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13. 1873. 651
rather narrower and longer squamella? ; but otherwise I see no dif-
ference.
Ach^togkron Gray, PL Fendl. p. 72. This is overlooked in
the Genera Plantarum; else it would probably have been referred to
Erigeron as a sort of Phalacroloma without bristles either in disk
or ray. But technically, and perhaps with sufficient reason every
way, it should hold its rank as a genus in the Bellidece, just before
Myriactis.
Baccharis. The receptacle is conical in B. Douglasii DC.
Evax. The paleae of the receptacle vary from strongly carinate-
cyrabiform in some species (as in E. Heldrichii, in which they are
wholly pointless) to barely concave in others : in E. perpusilla there
are subtending and partly enclosing paleae for each sterile flower. Our
Californian Hesperevax may very well remain in the genus ; but it
constitutes a marked subgenus, not only on account of the firm and at
length rigid,, comparatively persistent involucral scales and paleaa which
are barely concave, but also on account of the receptacle. This is not
correctly represented on the plate in Bot. Whippl. Exped. The body
of it, on which most of the fertile flowers are borne, is rather convex
than conical* beset with villous hairs, which are fully as long as the
achenia, and abruptly produced at the centre into a narrow column,
which bears very i'aw or hardly any pistillate flowers and paleae except
near its base, while its summit bears a whorl of three to five, broadly
ovate or obovate, blunt or sometimes mucronate, flat paleae, of nearly
herbaceous texture, more or less woolly inside, forming an involucre to
the small cluster of hermaphrodite-sterile flowers, rigid and radiately
spreading with age, at length deciduous. The achenia, moreover, are
smooth (not papillose or glandular), clavate-obovate and decidedly
obcompressed. The transverse brownish line above their base is
marked in the coat of the seed. The diversity in the villosity of the
receptacle, and the length and thickness of its elevated portion (being
very slender, even filiform, and a line high, in no. 415 of Kellogg and
Harford's collection), appeared to indicate more than one species, but I
cannot make them out.
Micropus. The generic character in the Genera Plantarum by an
oversight requires the fertile flowers to form only a single series. I
should hardly change that ; for the genus clearly appears to me to hold
only the first two sections, and to rest on two good and peculiar charac-
ters : 1, the paleae, which so completely and strictly enclose the achenia,
