652 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
are firm coriaceous or cartilaginous in texture, at length inclined to
split into two valves ; 2, the acbenia are strongly gibbous, so that the
style, with its filiform corolla, is lateral : the pappus wholly wanting.
Consequently, —
Stylocline Nutt., with straight or hardly oblique achenia having
a terminal areola (as in all Filaginece except Micropus), and with its
other good characters, is to be restored : it will well include Bentham's
section Diplocymbiurn and my Ancistrocarphus, thus constituting a
genus of at least four species, thus: —
§ 1. ElISTYLOCLINE. S. GNAPHALIOIDES Nutt., S. MICROPOIDES
Gray.
§ 2. Diplocymbium. {Micropus sect. 3, Diplocymbiurn Benth.)
Flores foeminei biseriati ; paleis tenui-membranaceis extus lanosissi-
mis, apice scarioso mutico, iis circa flores steriles angustioribus minus
involutis. S. Griffithii, Gnaphalii sp. Griffith," Notul. 4, p. 240,
t. 468. Affghanistan, Griffith ; no. 3220, 3221, Kew. distrib.
§3. Ancistrocarphus. Flores foeminei 5-10 uni— biseriati, paleis
cymbiformibus fere Diphcymbii (sed minus lanatis firmioribusque)
obvoluti, steriles paleis 5 majoribus ovato-lanceolatis subfoliaceis apertis
in cuspidem incurvam rigidam desinentibus persistentibus fructiferis
delapsis stellato-patentibus. — S. filaginea, Ancistrocarphus fila-
gineus Gray, Proc. Am. Acad. 7, p. 356.
Psilocarphus Nutt. The most important thing to note is, that the
leaves, even from the base of the stem, are almost always opposite. P.
globiferus, i. e. the Chilian Micropus globiferus of Bertero (Bezanilla
Ghilensis Remy), as well as I can judge from a single specimen, is
distinguishable from the North American species by its less elongated
(narrowly elliptical-oblong) as well as smaller achenia. The northern
species seem to be reducible to two, P. Oreganus and P. tenellus.
Var. elatior of the former (Oregon, Hall, no. 271, Kellogg and Har-
ford, 418) is a remarkably luxuriant state, a span high, and erect.
Filago Arizonica. Floccoso-lanata, a basi ramosissima, diffusa
(spithamaaa) ; ramis proliferis filiformibus ; foliis linearibus brevibus,
caulinis plerisque glomerulos terminales et alares involucrantibus ;
capitulis ovato-pentagonis ; floribus foemineis 10-15 epapposis, her-
maphroditis (sterilibus?) 5-10 papposis ; receptaculi angusti paleis
ovalis, fructiferis cymbiformibus dorso chartaceo lanosissimis, apice hya-
1 lino brevi obtuso, interioribus subplanis scarioso-hyalinis acutiusculis ;
acheniis laevibus. — Arizona, at Verde Mesa, Dr. Charles Smart, coll.
