OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 13,' 1873. 653
1867, received from Dr. Parry. Habit of F. spathulata, proliferously
diehotoinous ; the branches filiform and becoming glabrous. Heads
numerous in the capituliform clusters, a line and a half long. Fructif-
erous palese almost as deeply saccate as in F. Californica.
Anaphalis margaritacea. We prefer the reference of Gnapha-
lium margaritaceum Linn, to this genus (standing between Antennaria
and Gnaphalium), rather than to Antennaria by Brown, or to Heli-
chrysum by Weddell. No. 300 of E. Hall's Oregon collection, inadver-
tently named Gnaphalium leucocephalum Gray, is a narrow-leaved form
of our common Everlasting.
Pterigopappus Hook, f. Although Maia of Weddell is referred
to this genus in the Genera Plantarum, only the original Tasmauian
species is mentioned. P. compactus from the Andes of New Grenada
is the second species of this singularly distributed genus.
Adenocaulon Hook. Benthara refers this genus to his Millerieos
in the tribe Helianthoidece, with evident misgiving, remarking in his
Notes on the order that it is a less perfect stranger there than by the
side of Tussilago. That is true enough ; but the wholly alternate
leaves and naked receptacle are out of place there, and there is nothing
but the sterile central flowers which favors the association. Upon a
study of our species for the Californian flora, I find that its anthers,
instead of " basi integral vel vix minute bidentatge," are strongly sagit-
tate, in the manner of Bentham's diagram, no. 6, except that the five
points of the auricles are obtuse, although quite as much produced.
The style being conformable, it is clear to me that the genus should be
transferred to the Inuloidece, where, from its peculiarities of fruit,
involucre, and corolla, it may form a subtribe, Adenocauloneee.
Ambrosia artemislefolia, etc. In his notes on Composite, and
more briefly in Genera Plantarum, Bentham has cited an observation
of Meehan, that in this plant " the inflexed setiform appendage is only
to be found on anthers which do not present perfect pollen ; the
abundantly polleniferous anthers are broad, without horns." I find
this appendage equally surmounting anthers that have been filled with
pollen, and those that are so filled, only in the latter they are not so
readily discerned. I have never seen any normal staminate heads
with non-polleniferous anthers.
Silphiu.ai gracile. Scabro-hispidulum ; caule gracili striato
1 -2-pedali mono-tricephalo subscapiformi ; foliis radicalibus imisque'
caulinis ovato-oblongis membranaceis denticulatis utrinque acutis vel
