654 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
acuminatis longe petiolatis alternis, superiovibus parvis paucis interdum
oppositis lanceolatis sessilibus integerrimis ; involucri squamis confor-
mibus suba?qualibus erectis ovato-lanceolatis ciliolatis basi nervosis ;
ligulis 12 - 15 ; acheniis cum ala latissima tenui orbiculatis sinu lato
eraarginatis laevibus. — Open woods, Texas, near Houston, Lindheimer
(anno 1842, ex Engelmann), E. Hall, 1872. The radical leaves in
Lindheimer's specimen are larger, 10 to 15 inches long, including the
slender petiole, and pubescent beneath. Hall's plant has smaller
leaves and less pubescen e.
Zinne^e Benth. This subtribe of Helianthoidece appears to be well
founded, by Bentham, upon six Mexicano-North-American genera ;
and, as he remarks, our Heliopsis of the United States seems to hold
its sessile ligules as' persistently on the fruit as does the Mexicano-
South-American species. But the use which is made of this chai^acter
might call for the addition to the subtribe of a species which I long
ago characterized as forming a subgenus of Balsamorhiza, and which
has remained unnoticed, namely: —
Balsamorhiza (Kalliactis) Careyana Gray, PI. Fendl. p. 81.
In this the ligule becomes as dry and papery as in any Zinnia, and is
equally persistent ; but while the latter is continuous, the former has the
short tube of the ligule evidently articulated with the summit of the
achenium. The styles, etc., being exactly as in Balsamorhiza, the
species ought not to be separated from that genus. But it further
differs from all the other species in its cinereous-pubescent achenia.
Wyethia Nutt. In a natural arrangement this genus should stand
near to the preceding, to which it is much more related than to the
proper Helianthus-group. The pappus is of the coroniform order,
and perfectly continuous with the broad summit of the achenium,
which is very obtusely quadrandular in the typical Alarconia and
its near ally ; the sides in all are nerved. The species, as far as known,
are subjoined.*
* WYETHIA Nutt. (Alarconia DC.) ■
§ 1. Achenia crassa, quadrata, angnlis obtusissimis, pappo calyciformi 5 - 8-
fido rigido coronata. Capitula magna, latissima, foliaceo-bracteata, seu
involucrum foliaceum amplum. Folia lata, amplissima.
1 . W. helenioides Nutt., Gray, PI. Fendl. Tomentosa vel tomentulosa ;
acheniis cinereo-puberulis ; dentibus corolla; disci extusparce hispidulis. Alarconia,
DC.
2. W. glabra Gray, Proc. Amer. Acad. 6, p. 543. Glabra, glutinosa;
acheniis glabris ; dentibus corollae disci brevioribus glaberrimis.
