656 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
t
oribus parce hispidis breviter foliaceis ; ligulis brevibus aurantiacis ;
pappi squamellis lineari-oblongis coriaceis, aristis parum scabris. T.
tubceformis Bot. Mex. Bound, p. 90, non Cass. — Magdalena, in tbe
Mexican province of Sonora, Thurber, no. 910. This species is indi-
cated by Benthara, in Gen. PL p. 375. In the genus now reduced to its
natural proportions and well characterized, it is the smallest flowered
species, the heads being only half an inch long, and the ligules short.
Flourensia DC. As to F. corymbosa, if C. Gay's plant of the
name is genuine, it is clearly a Viguiera (as that genus is now well
characterized by Bentham), and the character " achenia villosissima "
(DC) is not applicable, as it is to the genuine species. These I can-
not regard as belonging to Helianthus, They appear to be quite dif-
ferent in habit, and hardly less so in the style, corolla, and achenia ;
and the pappus, seemingly not caducous even in F. thurifera, is mar-
cescent in the more genuine discoid species, F. laurifolia, and per-
sistent in the anomalous F. cernua. F. laurifolia and F. thurifera
are not so very dissimilar in habit ; both have the chaffy awns of the
pappus disposed to be trifid, and want the accessory nerves to the
corolla. F. cernua, which shows these nerves, but is otherwise most
unlike Helianthus, and has turgid instead of flat achenia, still accords
with Flourensia in most respects.
Encelia Adans. The combination which I had proposed of
Gercea and Barrattia with Sinisia is justly carried a step further by re-
ferring all these to sections of Encelia. I have detected rudimentary
awns to abortive ray-achenia in specimens which in Bot. Mex. Bound.
1 had referred to E. conspersa Benth. (a species still obscure), but
should now regard as a mere variety of E. Californica. This species
is distinguished from the Chilian E. oblongifolia by the leaves more
obtuse at base, and the achenia with a much shallower emargination.
The species of the section Gercea are : —
Encelia (Gercea) nudicaulis. Herbacea, pube brevi densa ar-
genteo-canescens ; foliis omnibus radicalibus orbicularis integerrimis basi
3-5 nervata in petiolum nudem latiusculum longum subito angus-
tatis ; scapo subpedali prorsus nudo monocephalo ; involucri incani lati
squamis triseriatis lanceolatis discum subtequantibus ; ligulis ultra 20
lanceolatis pollicaribus cum floribus disci aureis ; acheniis obovatis
undique villosissimis marginibus apiceque callosis ; pappo ex aristis
2 subulatis sat validis pilos hand superantibus et squamellis intermediis
minimis plurimis e membranulo fere continuo brevissimo ortis. —
