OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAT 13, 1873. 657
— Utah, probably in the southern part of the Territory, Captain F. M.
Bishop. This remarkable species, with head fully as large as that of
E. Californica, on a perfectly naked scape, departs a little from the
generic character in having minute and short somewhat membrana-
ceously connected squamelke between the awns, of which mere vestiges
persist on the mature achenium.
Encelia (GeRjEa) argophylla. This is the name which must
be borne by a close congener of the preceding, the Tithonia argophylla
of Eaton in S. Watson, Bot. King, p. 423, if the most scanty mate-
rials on which it was founded belong to one plant, as is likely. The
foliage described consists of tufts of radical leaves, which are ex-
ceedingly silvery-white with a very dense and close-pressed, short, soft
silky down, all rhombic-spatulate with long-tapering base and abruptly
acuminate or acute apex. The separate and fragmentary head, so far
as the means of comparison exist, might be identical with that of the
preceding species at maturity. Its achenia are four lines long ; the
very numerous and fine intermediate squamellce are, however, appar-
ently more setulose. " Dr. Palmer describes the stem as erect, two or
three feet high, leafy, with cauline leaves similar to the radical ones."
He informs us that it was found at St. George, in Southern Utah.
Encelia (Gek^ea) eriocephala, Simsia canescens Gray, Bot.
Mex. Bound, p. 89, the specific name changed on account of the old
Encelia canescens. It is remarkable for the lona; and white villous
hairs which densely fringe the lax and linear-lanceolate herbaceous
scales of the involucre; and the awns of the pappus are naked.
Encelia (Ger^a) frutescens, Simsia frutescens Gray, 1. c, to
the character of which it should be added that the rays are more
commonly present, 6 to 12 in number, and 3 - 4-lobed.
Encelia (Gerjea) scaposa, Simsia scaposa Gray, PL Wright.
2, p. 88. Still known only from Wright's New Mexican collection.
The disk-corollas are yellow; the thin chaff of the receptacle acutish.
— Nearly related to this is
Encelia (Ger^a) microcephala. Herbacea, puberula; caulibus
e radice perenni erectis strictis pedalibus apice corymboso-oligocepha-
lis ; foliis scabro-hispidulis integerrimis subcoriaceis, radicalibus cum
caulinis infimis oppositis spathulato-lanceolatis obtusis triplinerviis in
petiolum attenuatis, cseteris minoribus alternis lineari-lanceolatis (sub-
pollicaribus), superioribus sensim decrescentibus ; involucri cam-
panulas disci brevioris squamis oblongis gradatim imbricatis subcori-
VOL. VIII. 83
