658 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
aceis ; ligulis paucis (flavis) brevibus ; disci corollis atro-purpureis,
paleis obtnsissimis vel truncatis ; acbehiis (immaturis) undique villosis-
simis 1 - 2-aristatis, aristis basi villosissirais. — Sierra Abayo, New
Mexico? Dr. Newberry in McComb's Expedition. Heads 2 to 4,
on rather short peduncles, only 4 lines high ; the oblong rays hardly
exceeding the disk.
EncELia (Gerjea) albescens. Herbacea ? pube sericea brevi
scabrida argenteo-canescens ; foliis (ramealibus) alternis ovato- seu lan-
ceolato-oblongis subintegerrimis basi subcuneata trinervatis breviter
petiolatis ; capitulis solitariis longius pedunculatis ; involucri biserialis
squamis lanceolatis asqualibus canescentibus ; floribus luteis ; ligulis
8 — 10 obovatis majusculis ; paleis receptaculi acutis ; acheniis (im-
maturis) cuneato-oblongis prater margines creberrime sublonge ciliatos
fere glabris ; pappo 1 - 2-aristellato nudo. — In the western Mexican
province of Sonora, Dr. Edward Palmer, coll. 1869, no. 21. Leaves
in the specimen less than an inch long, the short petioles not dilated at
base. Rays half an inch long. Young achenium slightly emarginate
at the apex, the dense ciliate hairs of the margin in length scarcely
equalling half its width, or at the summit rather longer, and about
half the length of the longer delicate naked awn of the pappus, the
other awn seldom longer than the hairs, often shorter or obsolete. In
aspect and in the nature of the pubescence this very much resembles
another scarce Composita of the same region, namely, Viguiera nivea
(supposing it to be the Encelia nivea of Bentham, Bot. Sulph.), the
plant described by me in Bot. Mex. Boundary as HeUanthus tephrodes.
That, by the pappus and ovary, is evidently a Viguiera. The present
plant is a good Encelia, of the Gercea section by the pappus, although
the awns are unusually delicate and one of them inclined to disappear.
The villous ciliation of the achenium, although shorter than in its
congeners, is too long and dense for a Simsia.
Encelia (Barrattia) calva, Simsia calva Gray, PL Lindh. 2,
p. 228, is remarkable for the pair of foliaceous stipule-like appendages
at the base of uniformly opposite leaves. These are altogether want-
ing in
Encelia (Barrattia) Ghiesbreghtii. Herbacea? ramosa; va-
mis gracilibus foliosis ; foliis omnibus oppositis angusto-ovatis acurai-
natis rariter serratis basi truncatis vel subcordatis supra hirtello-velu-
tinis subtus molliter canescenti-sericeis ; petiolis brevibus inappendicu-
latis ; involucro campanulato Simsice, squamis lineari-subulatis villosis
