OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 13, 1873. GG1
able section TucJcermannia, L. maritimia Gray, which is reinforced by
a succulent woody-stemmed species of the Californian Islands, L.
gigantea Kellogg. This, however, has not yet flowered here in cul-
tivation. It may be only an insular variety of the other.
Although not here in its proper place, I close the present portion of
this article with the characters of the following interesting genus : —
MESONEURIS, Nov. Gen. Senecionidearum.
Capitulum homogamum, multiflorum, floribus hermaphroditis tubu-
losis. Involucrum campanulatum, bracteolis lineari-filiformibus paucis
laxis stipatum ; squamis 12-15 biseriatis sequalibus oblongo-lanceo-
latis, medio concavis subherbaceis 3-5 nerviis, basiincrassatis(carnosis?)
marginibus pi. m. scariosis. ' Receptaculum convexiusculum, epaleatum,
fimbrillis subulatis inter flores. Corollae hypocraterimorphae ; limbo
usque ad tubum angustum requilongum 5-partitum, lobis linear ibus
marginibus aestivatione induplicatis, medio nervo valido percursis,
nervis intramarginalibus tenuissimis. Stamina fauci inserta : antherae
lineares, basi breviter bidentatae. Styli rami crassiusculi subcomplanati,
extus puberi nervo medio valido percursi, apice subtruncato magis hir-
telli. Achenia cylindracea, enervia, areola epigyna (modo Seneciomim)
annulo magno incrassato circumdata. Pappus e setis rigidulis scabris
uniserialibus corolla? tubum baud superantibus. — Herba austro-Mexi-
cana, foliis alternis bipinnatifidis. petiolo basi spathaceo-auriculato cau-
lem amplectente, capitulis cymosis, floribus albis.
M. bipinnatifida. — Mexico, in the cold region of the mountains,
province of Chiapas, Ghiesbreght, no. 805 of new collection. —
somewhat robust perennial, two or three feet high, and probably often
taller, with some lax and deciduous pubescence, woolly-tufted at the
base of the stem. Lower leaves a foot long, including the petiole ; the
foliaceous sheathing auricle an inch or two in length ; uppermost leaves
reduced to these spathaceous sheaths. Heads half an inch long.
Lobes of the corolla 2 lines long ; the tube 5-nerved below, the nerves
as usual running to the sinuses, their continuation within the margin
of the lobes very slender : the median nerve of the lobes more promi-
nent than in the other and rare cases in which it is manifest at
all, but gradually vanishing after reaching the tube. The genus is a
remarkable one on several accounts (and doubtless Senecioneous
although the corolla recalls Hymenothrix) : in deriving the name
from the nervation, I have taken the less-used diminutive vevpls, so as
not to come too near Mezoneuron.
