48 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
by the attraction of the collections of Oriental manuscripts in the great
library. Paris was then incontestably the centre of Oriental study for
Europe ; even a little school of Sanskrit philology had arisen there,
having for its first teacher Alexander Hamilton, an English East-In-
dian, one of Napoleon's prisoners after the breach of the peace of Amiens.
To the study of the Sanskrit, and to the comparison of Indo-European
languages to which it so naturally led, Bopp soon began especially to
devote himself, — a devotion which he was never to relax until stricken
down by his last illness. More than any other person, he aided to make
the Sanskrit accessible to European scholars, by a series of grammars,
texts, and glossaries, which, though they have their defects, are even
now among the most valuable parts of the apparatus of study within
reach of the learner. With him, however, the Sanskrit was the thing of
subordinate consequence, the handmaid of comparative philology ; into
the history, antiquities, and literature of India he never cared to pene-
trate very far, nor did he strive to become a profound Sanskrit scholar,
to master all the niceties of its structure and usages. Even before
leaving Paris for a further season of study in England, he prepared
and published, in 1816, the forerunner of his great Comparative Gram-
mar, a little volume entitled " The Conjugation-System of the Sanskrit
Language, in comparison with that of the Greek, the Latin, the Per-
sian, and the German Languages." In this he sketches the principal
features of his whole system, as afterwards developed. He assumes
as demonstrated the truth, pointed out by many before him, of the re-
lationship of the Sanskrit with the other tongues named, not as their
mother, but as their older sister, but in the use he makes of this truth
he had no predecessor; he would fain derive from their comparison
their history and the genesis of their words and forms. He takes up
their grammatical mechanism as an object in itself worthy of study,
and sure to lead, when comprehended, to valuable results for other de-
partments of knowledge. Both in his distinct apprehension of the
work to be done, and in the clearness, good sense, and acuteness
of the methods of research he devised and employed, in the geniality
and fruitfulness of his whole mode of labor, he so far surpassed all who
had gone before him, and furnished an example and model for those
who should come after him, as to become the founder of the science.
It is, then, not without reason, that the fiftieth anniversary of the date
affixed to the preface of the " Conjugation-System " was celebrated just
two years ago (May 16, 1868) in Berlin, as the jubilee of Comparative
