OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 9, 1868. 49
Philology, by the establishment of a Bopp fund, of which the income
should be forever devoted to the encouragement and aid of researches
in this department of knowledge. The endowment, amounting to over
ten thousand thalers, was made up by the contributions of scholars and
friends of learning in all parts of the world, — those of our own coun-
try, among the rest, furnishing their mite to swell the sum.
On his return to his native country, Bopp was nominated by the
Bavarian government to a professorship in the University of Wiirz-
burg; but the handful of pedants who composed the senate of that in-
stitution resolved that the studies which he represented had no claim
to a place in it, and respectfully declined to ratify the appointment.
But the next year (1821) he was called to a vastly higher and wider
sphere of labor in the Berlin University, in connection with which and
with the Academy of Sciences of the same city his chief literary ac-
tivity was henceforth exercised.
The most important of his works, by far, is his Comparative Gram-
mar, of which the first edition began to appear in 1833 and reached its
completion in 1849. A second edition, in three volumes, considerably
modified and extended, was commenced in 1857 and finished in 1861.
The former was long since translated into English ; of the latter, M.
Breal is now putting forth a French version. Into any extended de-
scription or criticism of this great work we are not called upon to
enter. It is a rich mine of observations and conclusions, the compen-
dium of what was done for the new science by its founder. We must
not regard it, however, as in all parts of equal merit and authority.
Bopp lived long enough to see his science carried further, in many
points, by his followers than by himself. At the same time, he was
not one who readily assimilated the results won by others. The later
years of his life were comparatively unfruitful of valuable additions to
science ; and when at length he passed away, it was rather the pres-
ence of the man than the work of the scholar that was missed by us.
August Boeckh, the illustrious philologist, long a member of the
Academy, died in Berlin, August 3, 1867, aged 82. He was born in
Karlsruhe, November 24, 1785, and had the misfortune to be left an
orphan at the age of three. From his sixth to his eighteenth year he
attended the gymnasium at Karlsruhe, where he went through an un-
usually thorough course of study for the times, embracing the classics,
mathematics and physics, and philosophy.
Thus prepared for a more independent course of study, Boeckh left
VOL. VIII. 7
