54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
fork, and of the tuning-fork to exciting and sustaining the
vibration of threads or cords.
The elements which comprise the essential features of the machine,
now exhibited, are not original. The application of electricity as the
maintaining power for such rapid vibrations as belong to tuning-forks
is not new, though it is of recent discovery ; and the application of
tuning-forks to exciting sympathetic vibrations in cords is not new,
though it is also of recent discovery. I am not aware, however, that
these two discoveries have been united into one, by Employing a tun-
ing-fork, so impelled, for this particular purpose. Such tuning-fork3
have already been made and used by Koenig for producing the Lisse*
jous' curves, and for exhibiting the phenomena of interference of sounds ;
and this new application, therefore, is sufficiently obvious, and may
have been already anticipated by other physicists. The tuning-forks
in ut, etc., manufactured by Koenig for repeating Melde's experiments
on the vibrations of cords, are only adapted to short threads of
saddler's silk. My object has been to provide a tuning-fork which
would not be overloaded with a stout cord of thirty or forty feet in
length.
The prongs of my tuning-fork are thirty inches in length, two inches
in width, and three eighths of an inch in thickness ; and, in spite of the
encumbrance of the cord, they will vibrate for many minutes without
the aid of electricity, making excursions oPone half of an inch on each
side of the position of equilibrium. The outer face of each prong,
when at rest, is exposed to one pole of an electro-magnet, at the dis-
tance of three fourths of an inch from it. The iron core of this elec-
tro-magnet has a circular section of an inch and one fourth in diameter,
and is wound with copper wire to the depth of two inches.
The extremities of this iron core carry nearly cubical blocks of soft
iron, of about one inch and a half in linear dimension, through which
are screwed pieces of iron of one half of an inch in thickness. The
ends of these pieces are the acting poles, and are screwed through the
blocks, in order to adjust the distance between the poles of the magnet
and the prongs of the tuning-fork. With four cups of Bunsen's bat-
tery, the zincs of which are cylinders, four inches in diameter and
seven inches in height, and connected for intensity, the magnet has
strength sufficient to initiate the motion of the prongs, at the distance
even of three fourths of an inch, and to bring them soon into energetic
vibration. The current of electricity runs through the stem of the
