56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
explained except by a failure in the phenomenon itself, especially when
it is considered that the early settlers of New England were not likely
to have overlooked appearances which they could so readily associate
with the religious or political events of their heaven-determined des-
tiny. A preliminary discussion of the subject was first published in
the American Almanac for 1860, and afterwards, with some modifica-
tion, in the Memoirs of the Academy, Vol. IX. p. 101. But I was
soon satisfied that no satisfactory solution of a vast problem could be
reached, which was built on anything less than the richest materials
that could be gathered from the records of science. Much time has
been expended, therefore, in preparing and printing a complete cata-
logue of all the auroras observed from the earliest times down to the
present year, — a catalogue which comprises about ten thousand inde-
pendent auroras and fifty thousand observations.
The discussion of these materials, so far as it has yet progressed,
relates especially to the distribution of auroras between the different
days and months of the year, and the accuracy with which this distri-
bution may be expressed by a periodical function. The subject is
considered, not only for the whole earth, but also separately for the
two hemispheres, and for each place where a series of observations
has continued long enough to justify a distinct discussion. The num-
ber of auroras occurring in different seasons of the year has been
computed by the following formula : —
N = A + Ci sin. 2 n (t + c a ) -f C 2 sin. 4 n (t + c,) + C 3 sin. 6 n (t + c 3 ) ;
and the result compared with the observations. The mean probable
error has been obtained by the usual rule, applied to the differences be-
tween the number of observed and computed auroras. The formula
just mentioned is the same as I employed in 1845 in discussing the
daily changes of temperature and magnetic declination at Cambridge,
Mass.* In 1843, Eklof published f at Helsingfors, Russia, a mathe-
matical investigation of the yearly march of auroral phenomena, in
which he employed the same periodic function as I have adopted.
Copies, however, of the Scientific Transactions, in which Eklof pub-
lished his labors, are very rare in this country. I only know of the
single one which I had recently an opportunity to examine, in the
Astor Library of New York. As Eklof confined his inquiry to a few
*
* Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. III. 44.
t Acta Soc. Sci. Fennic, etc. II. 302.
