64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
That sulphuric acid is a more efficient precipitant of lead in pres-
ence of tartaric acid than sulphate of ammonium was shown in another
way. 30 c. c. of the standard alcoholic acetate of lead were mixed
with an equal volume of the standard solution of tartrate of ammonium.
The precipitated tartrate of lead was filtered, and the filtrate mixed
with a' quantity of the sulphate of ammonium solution. No precipi-
tate was produced, though on the subsequent addition of sulphuretted
hydrogen a slight precipitate of sulphide of lead was formed. In a
similar experiment, where sulphuric acid was substituted for sulphate
of ammonium, a slight precipitate was produced by the sulphuric acid,
and no precipitate could be obtained afterwards with sulphuretted
hydrogen.
In two other experiments where 5 c. c. of the acetate-of-lead solu-
tion were mixed with 30 c. c. of the tartrate of ammonium, no precipi-
tate was produced by sulphate of ammonium in the filtrate from the
tartrate of lead, while sulphuric acid gave a slight precipitate as before.
In this case, however, sulphuretted hydrogen gave a slight precipitate
after sulphuric acid, as well as after sulphate of ammonium.
Normal Tartrate of Potassium mixed with the solution of sulphuric
acid exerted no solvent action on sulphate of lead.
Succinate of Ammonium, prepared by neutralizing a solution of suc-
cinic acid with ammonia-water, exerted no solvent action when mixed
with the free sulphuric acid ; but when mixed with the solution of sul-
phate of ammonium, 6 c. c. of the acetate-of-lead solution were added
to the liquor before a permanent precipitate fell.
Normal Citrate of Ammonium was prepared by neutralizing a
weighed equivalent portion of crystallized citric acid with ammonia-
water. 10 c. c. of the solution were mixed with an equal volume of
the standard sulphuric acid, and the standard solution of acetate of
lead was dropped into the mixture in the usual way. No permanent
precipitate was formed until 16 c. c. of the lead solution had been
added. These 16 c. c. contained 0.6064 grm. of acetate of lead,
corresponding to 0.4848 grm. of sulphate of lead. The 10 c. c. of
citrate-of-aminonium solution contained 0.42 grm. of crystallized citric
acid. Hence, 1 part of sulphate of lead was held dissolved in the mix-
ture of alcohol and dilute sulphuric acid for every 0.8663 part of citric
acid in the liquor.
On repeating the experiment, a precisely similar result was obtained:
16 c. c. of the standard lead solution had to be added to the mixture
