OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 11, 1869. 107
Mr. Lesley from the observed geological phenomena, involves a prob-
able cooling of the whole earth of not less than two thousand degrees
centigrade, which would require that its original temperature should be
higher than would be consistent with the solidity of these shrunk
strata.
Another source of change of form, which would produce shrinkages
in different directions in different parts of the earth, is to be found in
the diminution of oblateness arising from the diminished velocity of
rotation upon the axis. Such diminution of the velocity of rotation
has several years ago been shown by Mr. Ferrel to be caused by the
action of the moon in producing the tides ; this is, therefore, a true
cause, and it is only necessary to examine how great its amount can be
under any circumstances. This is all which is proposed in the present
investigation, and the application to facts is reserved for geologists.
It is sufficient, for the present object, to regard the earth as homo-
geneous. Under this condition Laplace has shown that the time of the
earth's rotation could not be less than about one tenth of a day, which
corresponds to a ratio of the axis of the equator to that of the
pole, equal to 2.7197, and an equatorial circumference 94 per cent
greater than the present one. Such is then the amount of shrinking
which might have taken place, if any cause could be assigned capable
of producing so great a reduction of the earth's velocity. The whole
surface of the earth would have been about 130 per cent larger than
at present.
But the only cause at present known which would produce a sensi-
ble reduction of the earth's velocity is the lunar action upon the tides.
But in this mutual action between the moon and the earth, the common
rotation area of the earth and moon must remain unchanged. The
question then arises, How great a reduction of the rotation area of the
earth would have passed into that of the moon ? In this inquiry it
may be assumed that the moon revolves in a circular orbit in the plane
of the earth's equator. Now the moon's rotation area is 3.716 times the
earth's. But if, in the origin, it had revolved just in contact with this
earth, its rotation area would not have been less than 0.480 times the
earth's, so that it could not have absorbed a rotation area from the earth
greater than 3.236 times the earth's present rotation area, and therefore
the earth's rotation area could never have exceeded 4.236 times that
which it has at present. But, with the maximum velocity of rota-
tion given by Laplace, the earth's rotation area would have been
