108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
37£ times greater than at present. It can never, therefore, have been
reduced to so great an extent by the moon's action on the tides. But
since, when the oblateness is small, the rotation area is nearly, propor-
tional to the velocity, and the excess of the square of the equatorial
above that of the polar axis is nearly proportional to the square of
the velocity, this excess may have been originally nearly 18 times as
great as at present, or about 15£ per cent of the square of the polar
axis. This would correspond to a figure of the earth in which the
equatorial radius would have been about 2^- per cent greater than
at present ; so that it is sufficient to account for the observed phe-
nomenon.
This peculiar form of shrinkage would produce the highest moun-
tains at the equator, and the tendency of the mountain ranges would
then be to assume the direction of the meridian. But nearer the poles
the mountains would be less elevated, and would rather tend towards
the direction of the parallels of latitude.
It is, next, expedient to consider the mechanical question of the loss
of living force in the case of the moon's action upon the waters of the
earth, and its effect upon their different motions. In this connection
there are problems worthy of the attention of Geometers ; such as the
relative motions of bodies rotating above the same vertical axis, towards
which they are drawn by weights, and acting upon each other through
the friction on the axis. For one of the bodies a rotating wheel may
be substituted. There is also the case of two planets revolving about
a primary, and acting upon each other through some form of friction.
In this way, it will be seen that the planet or satellite once formed
is constantly removed from the primary, and that planets tend to
approach each other. It is interesting to consider whether this may
not be one of the actual problems of nature.
Six hundred and ninth Meeting.
May 25, 1869. — Annual Meeting.
In the absence of the regular presiding officers, Hon. Robert
C. Winthrop was chosen to take the chair.
The Chairman called the attention of the Academy to the
recent decease of Hon. William Mitchell and of Dr. William
Allen, both of them Resident Fellows.
