OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 25, 1869. 113
sidering that it belongs to a very ancient formation. Even where it is
inclined at high angles, it retains this soft texture, unless this has un-
dergone a change in. the immediate neighborhood of eruptive rocks.
x The Tadio Mountains, a picturesque range of nearly two thousand feet
in height, and situated about fifty miles east of Kiu-kiang, are almost
entirely built up of these sandstones. They are here slightly inclined,
and exposed in a thickness of at least two thousand five hundred feet.
At another place I estimated the visible portion of the formation at
four thousand feet ; but, as I never saw its lowest strata, nor the under-
lying rocks, those figures mark the minimum of the actual thickness.
2d. Liu-shan schists. — This is a series of shales of from twelve
hundred to three thousand feet in thickness, which are quite character-
istic, being the only rocks of this kind on the lower Yang-tse. The
formation appears, from the descriptions given of rocks occurring south
of that river, to be largely distributed in eastern China, and to form a
valuable horizon. The shales are, for the most part, clayey and sandy,
and not unfrequently converted into clay-slate. The color varies from
yellow and red in the former to dark green and gray in the latter
varieties. An abundance of undeterminable remains of plants may be
found. This formation and the former are distinguished from all those
of subsequent age, by being usually intersected by numerous veins
of white quartz. The Liu-shan is a short but very conspicuous moun-
tain range, near Kiu-kiang, rising abruptly to the altitude of probably
little less than three thousand five hundred feet. The shales form a
belt at its eastern foot.
3d. Matsu limestone. — On the Matsu-shan, a prominent hill in the
belt just mentioned, I observed, for the first time, the conformable
superposition of limestone on the Liu-shan schists. I confirmed after-
wards the observation in several other places. These are dark lime-
stones, distinguished in their lowest portion by a ribboned appearance
of all planes of fracture which intersect the stratification. It is caused
by the predominance of silica in alternate layers. The main body of
the limestone shows a certain brecciated structure and a dolomitic ap-
pearance. Chert is abundant, but I found no characteristic fossils.
The thickness of the formation is at least two thousand feet ; but as I
never saw distinctly its upper portion, this figure may be too low. The
deposition of these strata was followed by, —
4th. A period of great disturbances and outbreaks of granite. — The
three formations which I have mentioned compose long ranges of
VOL. VIII. 15
