114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
hills, and I know of one instance only, namely, the Ta-ho range, where
they can be observed in an almost undisturbed position ; generally
they are inclined at steep angles, and contorted. Granite, in most
instances, enters into the structure of these ranges, though in a varying ■
way, now intersecting the strata in large intrusive masses and veins,
now accompanying them separately. It has, however, had a compara-
tively slight metamorphosing influence. The purer limestone is con-
verted into a coarse white marble ; the impure qualities are represented
by thick beds of a highly silicious, slightly dolomitic, and imperfectly
crystalline limestone of yellow color. The sandstone is partly con-
verted into quartzite, and the shale into clay-slate.
The granite also occurs by itself in mountain ranges. A bold range,
prominent by its rugged outlines, as well as by its altitude (about three
thousand five hundred feet), which rises abruptly out of the alluvial
plain of the Yang-tse near the large city of Ngan-king, and accom-
panies the river on its left bank for quite a distance, is completely
built up of granite; in a few places only, marble and quartzite indicate
detached portions of the strata which were intersected by the granite.
It is probable that this granitic outburst marks one of the main
features in the geology of eastern China, as there is little doubt that
to it belongs the granite which, together with porphyry, composes
almost exclusively the coast of China between Ningpo and Hong-
Kong, a distance of seven hundred geographical miles. I observed
it at Suchau, in the group of the Chusan Archipelago, and on the
island of Hong-Kong. The granite of these three localities resembles
that on the lower Yang-tse, not only in its petrographic character, but
also in its geological features, as it is accompanied in these different
places by detached and quite irregular portions of altered shales and
quartzites. These and marble are mentioned, too, from nearly every
place along the granitic coast of which I have any information. If
the supposition of this identity, or rather contemporaneity, of the
granitic outbursts of eastern China should prove correct, we may look
for it as a guide in the geology of eastern Asia in general ; although
I am inclined to believe, from former observations in Shantung, that
there was still an older granitic epoch, connected with the thorough
metamorphism of a more ancient series of formations than those here
mentioned.
5th. Tung-ting sandstone. — All the formations which are now
to be mentioned were not affected by the disturbances immediately
