OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 25, 1869. 115
connected with the outbreak of the granite. Probably the lapse of
time between the deposition of 3 and 5 was of long duration, and it is
quite likely that the gap may comprise a series of sedimentary deposits
which are not visible at the surface in the regions visited by me. I did
not even see in any place the lowest portion of the Tung-ting sand-
stones. They form a rather uniform series of very hard, almost
quartzose sandstones, which are visible in a thickness of at least four
thousand feet, and form bold mountain ranges for themselves alone, the
Liu-shan among others. The name was first used by Kingsrnill, and
is derived from the island of Tung-ting-shan in Taihu Lake, sixty
miles west of Shanghai.
This is the only formation in regard to the position of which I do
not feel quite certain. The next formation is, however, conformably
underlain by what I consider to be the topmost layers of the Tung-ting
sandstone, namely, a series of hardened, nodular clay, hard sandstone,
and conglomerate of pebbles of quartz.
6th. Si-hio limestone. — This is a limestone formation of only six hun-
dred feet in thickness. The rock is full of chert nodules, and contains
numerous fossils, chiefly corals, encrinites, and brachiopods. Aulopora
repens is of frequent occurrence among them, and other forms, too,
indicate a Devonian age. The name is derived from a prominent hill,
generally known as Single-tree hill, east of Nan-king, where I first
found the fossils.
7th. Nan-king grits. — The last formation is conformably overlain
by a gritty and purely quartzose sandstone, alternating frequently
with a coarse conglomerate of perfectly rounded pebbles consisting
exclusively of quartz. The color is mostly red, but where the strata
are inclined at steep angles, light shades prevail, though the former
color is still visible in concentric rings of a dark red color, which give
a variegated appearance to every plane of fracture. Although this
formation is largely developed at and around Nan-king, and forms
bold hills capped with a coarse conglomerate, and rising to more than
a thousand feet, I was unable to determine its thickness. It probably
far exceeds two thousand feet. Certain dark shales which occur in
the way of interstratification contain fossil plants, but I found no
specimens that could be determined.
8th. Kitau limestone. — This is an important formation, overlaying
the last conformably. Its name is derived from a prominent bluff
situated midways between Han-kau and Kiu-kiaug, called Kitau, or
