116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Cock's Head, which is well known as a landmark to the navigator of
the Yang-tse. There are three subdivisions of this formation : —
a. The lower limestone. Hard, silicious varieties of light gray and
reddish colors, carrying frequently an abundance of chert, prevail.
The thickness of the layers varies from that of card-paper to many
feet. The chert nodules increase in some places so much in quantity
as to form complete layers by themselves, and lenticular masses of
chert are frequently embedded in a soft calcareous sandstone inter-
stratified in thin beds between the limestone. Traces of fossils may
often be found in them. The limestone itself is frequently filled with,
and in certain layers nearly made up of, the shells of a Fusulina
which is distinguished from Fusulina cylindrica only by its more
perfect cylindrical shape. I collected many beautiful specimens of it.
This lower limestone is about fourteen hundred feet thick.
b. A series of black sandy shales, black lydite, and soft sandstones.
The lowest strata are highly fossiliferous, chiefly at Tso-dsu-kang
near Ching-kiang, which is the before-mentioned distinguished local-
ity. Large specimens of Productus semireticidatus, with shell, interior
structure, and spines well preserved, would be sufficient for themselves
to indicate the age of the mountain-limestone. They are accompanied
by numerous other brachiopods, bivalves, corals, and Fenestellas, the
latter being quite a> prominent feature. I collected sufficiently to give
pleasant occupation to a geologist who would take the trouble to work
up the material. The place where they were found is quite a curi-
osity. There are a number of abandoned shafts, the waste dumps of
which afford an easy opportunity for collecting the fossils ; otherwise
they could hardly be discovered, as the ground is covered by vegeta-
tion. As no reason for mining is apparent, it would at first seem as
if a past generation had opened the shafts for the delight of future
stray geologists, until one hears that these were flint-mines ; indeed,
lenticular masses of chert are quite frequent in the soft strata. I may
mention, besides, that among the fossils here found are none of those
brachiopods which have been long since famous as an article of trade
in the Chinese drug-stores. I believe, for various reasons, that they
are derived from the Si-hio limestone before mentioned. The soft
sandstone which follows higher up in this series carries a bed of coal,
the lowest in position which I have found. All the mines once
opened on this bed are abandoned, evidently at or little below water-
evel. But the coal appears to be of inferior quality, and not more than
