OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : MAY 25, 1869. 117
one or two feet thick. There is a remarkable regularity in the
occurrence of this bed of coal, and of the entire formation, with its
lydite and other distinguishing features, over a. wide extent of country.
I found it in places four hundred miles distant from each other. The
thickness of this formation is about four hundred feet.
c. Upper limestone. It is separated from the coal only by a thin
stratum of black shale, and is similar in nature to the lower limestone.
I observed its thickness for sixteen hundred feet, but never saw its
upper portion.
The thickness of the entire formation is thus at least three thousand
four hundred feet, but I am prepared to see it proved to be several
thousand feet thicker by future observation. The Kitau limestone
composes entire mountain ranges by itself alone, chiefly between Kiu-
kiang and Han-kau. Kingsmill mentions, as overlaying the Tung-ting
sandstone of the Liu-shan to the west, a limestone formation of an
estimated thickness of six thousand feet ; it is probably altogether
Kitau limestone.
9th. Sanghu sandstone and conglomerate. — The deposition of the
Kitau limestone ended with a considerable disturbance, as the next
formation follows quite unconformably. It consists of quartzose sand-
stone and quartzose conglomerate, interstratified witli thick layers of
red clay, and carries a coal-bed at a place sixty miles below Han-kau.
Black shales, which overlie the coal, carry some remains of plants. I
was unable to establish the thickness of this formation.
10th. Commencement of the outbreaks of porphyry. — The porphyritic
eruptions have probably continued in China during a long period,
while sediments were contemporaneously deposited. Pumpelly was
the first to direct attention to these wide-spread events. But it is only
in the great granitic region of the eastern coast, between Ningpo and
Hong-Kong, that porphyry itself arrives at an extraordinary develop-
ment. The Chusan Islands are almost exclusively composed of
quartzose porphyry and its tufas, and from there southward it appears
to be only subordinate in quantity to the granite. I know it from my own
observations on the island of Hong-Kong, and by inference from the
observations of others, of the region between that island and Ningpo.
This is the most extensive development of porphyry known in any
part of the world.
11th. Deposits of porphyritic tufa, sandstones, and clays. — The
porphyries themselves are little developed on the lower Yang-tse. I
