OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: MAY 25, 1869. 119
is surrounded by a narrow ring of these beds, which are horizontally
stratified and form the slopes of the volcanoes up to an altitude of four
hundred feet. They probably owe this singularly isolated position to
a local elevation of the volcanic district, which may have taken place
loner after its vents were extinct.
d. Loess, which cannot be distinguished from the European Loess.
It comnoses terraces two hundred feet hia;h, and contains shells of
Helix. It is sometimes separated from the underlying rocks by a
layer of Laterite.
e. Alluvium of the great plain.
The different formations here enumerated compose, on the right and
left bank of the lower Yang-tse, a series of detached and apparently
disconnected mountain ranges. The complete sequence of sedimen-
tary formation can only be constructed out of the various part-sections
which those ranges severally afford. But no sooner are the geological
columns put down on a map than the unity of the whole system of
ranges is. conspicuous. They form together, so to say, one great geo-
logical range, which is directed from southwest to northeast, parallel
to the course of the Yang-tse from Kiu-kiang to Nan-king. There may
be distinguished an axial core, consisting of the three most ancient
formations and granite, while those of subsequent age ai'e distributed
on both flanks of it. On the northwestern flank a somewhat regular
sequence of them may be observed, commencing with those following im-
mediately on the granite, and ending with the post-porphyritic deposits.
It forms, between the Liu-shan and Han-kau, a belt of one hundred
and fifty miles in breadth, and is cut at right angles by the Yang-tse.
The hills between Chin^-kiano; and Nan-kin^ constitute a belt of
similar construction, though much more narrow, on the southeastern
flank. I use the term "axial core" in a purely geological sense, as
the formations composing it do by no means occupy the centre of
actual mountain ranges, nor do they excel by the altitude to which
they rise. Though the granitic mountains near Ngan-king are about
three thousand five hundred feet high, most of the hills composed of
those ancient formations would but slightly attract the attention of the
topographer. West of Poyang Lake, for instance, the upturned edges
of the oldest sediments constitute a low plateau, and rise only in a
few hills to about six hundred feet, while the more recent Tung-ting
grits compose, in the immediate vicinity, the high and abrupt range of
the Liu-shan.
