120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
You may be surprised not to find in the above list of formations the
nummulitic limestone of Si-Tungting, which I mentioned in a former
letter, and which belongs properly to the system of the lower Yang-tse.
The reason is, that I will refrain from maintaining my former, perhaps
too positive assertion, before the fossils, which have so perfectly the
structure of nummulites, shall have been examined by an authority on
the subject. The structure of these shells, the occurrence, with them,
of certain gastropods which, though hardly determinable (on account
of their fragmentary condition), do not have the character of any that
are usually found in ancient formations, the state of preservation of the
fossils which permits even the color of some bivalves to be recognized, —
all this is in strange contradiction with the similarity of the limestone
of Si-Tungting to some of the most ancient limestone strata on the
Yang-tse. The occurrence of encrinites, too, in the former, — a fact
which I think I forgot to mention in my former letter, — is not in accord-
ance with the Eocene age of the limestone in question. I never found
on the lower Yang-tse any fossils resembling those of Si-Tungting.
I am endeavoring to collect data for the geological history of eastern
China in recent periods. There is, among others, one very interest-
ing feature in the valley of the lower Yang-tse, which bears on that
subject. You would, in ascending the river by steamer, observe that
it is, in the greater part of its course below Han-kau, accompanied by
terraces, which rise* abruptly out of the alluvial plain to an altitude of
from sixty to two hundred feet above it, now approaching the river
closely, now remaining at a distance of several miles from its banks,
sometimes skirting the foot of a mountain range,' then again forming
an extensive table-land. You might consider them, from analogy, to
correspond to the so-called diluvial terraces so common in the valleys
of great rivers. It is a striking fact, that, on examination, the terraces
of the Yang-tse prove to be quite different in nature, consisting as they
do mostly of the upturned edges of ancient formations, not of one of them,
but of all, excepting granite, porphyry, and the limestones. The strata
are inclined at various angles, and their ends abraded in nearly hori-
zontal planes. On Poyang Lake, the terraces consist of the two most
ancient formations ( 1 and 2) ; below Han-kau, for sixty miles, they are
composed of the soft sandstones and clays No. 11, while near Ngan-king
they are built up of Tatung sediments. At Nan-king, finally, the river
is accompanied for about fifty miles, on either side, by terraces consist-
ing of the Nan-king sandstones and conglomerates, which are here in-
