OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 8, 1869. 123
during the first term of Mr. Jefferson's Administration. Having been
graduated at Harvard College with the class of 1802, he pursued the
profession in which his father had been so distinguished, and, like him,
was soon called off from the bar to engage in political affairs. He
was a member of the Senate of Massachusetts in 1812 ; a representa-
tive in. the State Legislature in 1814 ; a member of the Convention to
revise the Constitution in 1820 ; Speaker of the Massachusetts House
of Representatives in 1822 ; Lieutenant-Governor of the State in
1823 ; and, soon after retiring from this office for a brief service on
the Bench of the Supreme Court, he was elected Governor of Massa-
chusetts in 1825. In this capacity he served the State with conspic-
uous fidelity and ability for nine successive years, and fairly won the
title of a model magistrate. In 1834 he was chosen a Representative in
the Congress of the United States, and continued in that office for seven
years. In 1841 he was appointed Collector of the Customs for the
port of Boston, and, on quitting that post in 1843, he was immediately
returned to the Senate of Massachusetts, and in the following year
was made President of that body. In 1848 he was chosen President
of the Electoral College of Massachusetts ; and as late as 1864, while
in his 82d year, he once more discharged the office of a Presidential
Elector. In the mean time he had enjoyed the distinction of being the
first Mayor of his native town, after it was incorporated as a city, and
had rendered valuable service- to the community in which he lived, as
President of the Worcester Agricultural Society. His long and hon-
ored life was thus devoted to the public interests Of the Commonwealth
and the country ; while his spotless integrity and private virtues com-
manded the respect and esteem of all who knew him. His memory is
among the treasures of Massachusetts, and will be cherished by all
who appreciate the value to a free State of a patriotic and upright
magistrate, and of a public-spirited and useful citizen.
The Rev. William Allen, D. D., was the son of the Rev.
Thomas and Elizabeth (Lee) Allen, and was born in Pittsfield, Massa-
chusetts, on the 2d of January, 1784, being the ninth of twelve chil-
dren. His father was the first minister of Pittsfield. Dr. Allen
claimed to be descended, through his mother, from Governor Bradford
of Plymouth Colony.
He was graduated at Harvard College in 1802, and pursued the
study of theology with the Rev. John Pierce of Brookline. In 1804
he was licensed by the Berkshire Association, and preached for some
