124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
months in the western part of New York. Returning to Massachu-
setts, he succeeded the Rev. Dr. Channing as Regent in Harvard Col-
lege. While in that office, besides performing the duties which
pertain to it, he prepared the first edition of his " American Bio-
graphical and Historical Dictionary," which was published in 1809 by
William Hilliard, in Cambridge, containing notices of about seven
hundred Americans. It comprised six hundred and thirty-two pages
in octavo. It is claimed that this was the first book of general
biography published in this country. It certainly reflects great credit
on the industry and research of the compiler. Two years before the
publication of this work, Dr. Allen had prepared notices of a number
of American divines for the Rev. David Bogue's " History of the Dis-
senters," which was first published in London in 1809. The second
edition of Dr. Allen's Biographical Dictionary was published in 1832
by William Hyde of Boston, in a large octavo of eight hun-
dred pages. This volume is said to contain over eighteen hundred
names. The third edition, in a still enlarged form, was published in
1857 by John B. Jewett & Co. of Boston. This contained notices of
over seven thousand Americans. In 1810, when Dr. Allen's connec-
tion with the College was dissolved, he delivered the Phi Beta Kappa
oration. In October of that year he was ordained pastor of the church
in Pittsfield, as. his father's successor. The Legislature of New
Hampshire, in 1816, altered the charter of Dartmouth College, mak-
ing it a University, and Dr. Allen, in the following year, was chosen
its President. This action of the Legislature originated the famous
Dartmouth College case, which, on an appeal to the Supreme Court
at Washington, resulted, in 1819, in the maintenance of the rights of
the College against the State. In 1820, Dr. Allen was appointed Pres-
ident of Bowdoin College, in Maine, and he retained this office till his
resignation in 1839. Since this time he lived at Northampton, Massa-
chusetts, engaging in various literary labors. He made a large collec-
tion of words not found in any dictionary of the English language ;
nearly fifteen hundred being contributed to Worcester's Dictionary pub-
lished in 1846, more than four thousand to Webster's, 1854, and
about six thousand for the new edition of Webster's. * To what ex-
tent these large collections of words, thus contributed, were incor-
porated in the works above named, we are not informed, as no
* These memoranda are taken from the New American Cyclopaedia, included
in a notice of Dr. Allen, from which, indeed, this sketch is mainly compiled.
