OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 8, 1869. 127
erary, soci.il, and political distinction, in which his characteristic mod-
esty did not prevent him from taking an active part. He had a re-
markably pleasant voice and distinct utterance, and could read aloud
an indefinite time without fatigue to his auditors or himself.
He was a man of most amiable disposition, pleasing manners, and
lively wit, without poignancy or sarcasm ; a devoted and enduring
friend, admired and confided in by all, and never knowing what it was
to have an enemy. He never unduly urged his pretensions, nor had
he need to, for during his life he was surrounded by those who knew
his worth.
George Rapall Notes, the son of Nathaniel and Mary (nee Rapall)
Noyes, was born in Newburyport, March G, 1798. While a pupil in
the public schools of his native town, he manifested a taste and aptness
for study which attracted the attention of his pastor, the late Rev. Dr.
Dana, who encouraged and aided him, both by advice and by the loan
of money. In 1814 he entered Harvard College, where he maintained
his place as a faithful and successful scholar, graduating in 1818. He
had defrayed a portion of his expenses by teaching country schools in
the winter, and immediately on leaving college he took charge of the
Framingham Academy, thus securing a sufficient income to clear him-
self from debt, and to start with some small savings on his proposed
course of more advanced study. In 1819 he entered the Cambridge
Divinity School, and in 1822 was licensed as a preacher. But he had
become too much engrossed in the literature of his profession to forsake
the university for the active duties of the ministry. He continued at
Cambridge for eight years longer, holding at first the duties of a proc-
tor, with some private pupils whose tuition-fees eked out his frugal
means of living, and for the last two years employed as a tutor in the
classical department. By this time it had become quite generally
known that he had been devoting himself with great assiduity and
singleness of purpose to the Hebrew language and scriptures. In
1827 he became pastor of the First Congregational Church in Brook-
field. Though the leisure which so small and retired a parish might
give him for study had no inferior place among his motives in accept-
ing the invitation, he yet was conscientiously faithful in his ministerial
charge, and established life-long relations of mutual respect, affection,
and gratitude with his parishioners. Shortly after his settlement he
published his translation of Job, which gave him at once a foremost
place among distinguished scholars in that department of learning. In
