128 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
1834 the insufficiency of his support compelled him to resign his charge
at Brookfield. He then accepted a pastorate at Petersham, where he
had a peaceful, happy, and prosperous ministry of six years. In 1 840
he was invited to fill the chair of Hebrew and other Oriental Lan-
guages and Biblical Literature in Harvard University. He retained
this office till his death, and, though for many months he had suffered
from illness and physical infirmity, he remained in the full exercise of
his mental powers, and with unimpaired ability for his duties as a
teacher, till within a few days of his decease, which took place June 8,
1868.
He received the degree of Doctor of Divinity from Harvard Uni-
versity in 1889. He was chosen a member of the American Academy
in 1844. Elected to other learned bodies, he declined membership
from an unwillingness to be enrolled where he could not render active
service.
Dr. Noyes's principal publications in his lifetime were the version of
Job, already mentioned, which passed through four editions ; a trans-
lation of the Book of Psalms, and a translation of the Hebrew Proph-
ets, of both of which three editions were published ; and a translation
of the Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Canticles, of which there were two
editions. Besides these, he published numerous tracts, occasional ser-
mons, and articles in periodicals. His latest work, nearly ready for the
press when he died, and issued in the following autumn, was a trans-
lation of the New Testament, in which he condensed the results of his
life-long study of the Sacred Records, and which he regarded equally as
the ripest fruit of his scholarship, and as his last and best offering upon
the altar of Christian faith.
These works are the most adequate memorial of their author's mind
and culture. They indicate untiring industry, profound study, keen
critical acumen, thorough grasp of the subject in hand, full command of
the materials and resources of critical inquiry, and that just apprehen-
sion of the intent and spirit of the books belonging to the sacred canon,
without which no amount of learning or skill could have made him a
good translator. We have no space for the minute examination of the
merits of his translations in themselves, or as compared with other
similar works. Suffice it to say that he who should pronounce either
of them superior to any other extant translation of the same books
might see ample ground for such an opinion, both in the tokens of
exhaustive research and in the marks of sound and sober judgment to
be found in them all.
