OF ARTS AND SCIENCES : JUNE 8, 1869. 129
Dr. Noyes's moral character was well adapted to aid his success and
worthy fame as a critic. He was at once reverent and bold, — reverent
for all truth, as one with God, but wholly destitute of prescriptive
reverence for what bad been held as truth, until it had shown its cre-
dentials and established its claim. He thus pushed his inquiries to the
utmost limit ; but while he rejected many things which others held
sacred, no man ever had a firmer faith than he (a faith which seemed
to him as strongly grounded as if it had been susceptible of mathe-
matical demonstration) in the divine mission and authority of the
Founder of Christianity, and in the authenticity of the records through
which his life and character have been transmitted. Himself a free
and fearless inquirer, he claimed for others the same liberty, and re-
garded honest dissent, denial, and scepticism with uniform respect and
kindness.
As a writer he was simple, chaste, perspicuous, and at the same time
concise, with little ornament, but with instructive rather than careful
heed to the canons of pure taste and accurate diction. As a preacher,
he was plain, sensible, serious, and weighty, impressing his hearers
with his own sincerity, and most esteemed by those whose esteem is of
the most worth.
In private life no man could be more worthily loved. Happy in
those who shared his home, he made his home happy. Faithful, kind,
genial, hospitable, he had equally the unlimited confidence and the
warm affection of all who stood in near or intimate relation with him ;
and while his modesty and his retired life may have given him fewer
personal friends than his reputation would have brought him, those
who knew him well knew him only to love and honor him. The last
three or four years of his life were marked by unintermitted debility
and suffering; and for a long period he was seldom able to cross his
own threshold, his classes coming to him in his study. During this
whole season he manifested entire resignation, serene Christian trust, a
patience never disturbed, and an engagedness in his wonted pursuits
which had not begun to flag when he was laid upon his death-bed.
As a Christian scholar, he merits a foremost place among his contem-
poraries ; as a Christian man, he has his record, equally, we trust, in
grateful and reverent memories on earth and in the book of life
eternal.
Horace Mann was elected into the Academy on the eleventh of
November last ; and he died the same night. Devoted to Natural
VOL. VIII. 17
