130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
History almost from childhood, and trained to investigation in one de-
partment, in which he had made successful explorations in a distant
field, he was confidently expected to add new celebrity to the distin-
guished name he inherited, when a career of unusual scientific promise
was thus suddenly arrested.
He was the eldest son of the late Hon. Horace Mann (of whom it is
unnecessary here to speak), and was born in Boston on the 25th of
February, 1844 ; therefore had not completed the 25th year of his age.
His earlier studies were pui'sued mainly under the immediate direction
of his parents, with both of whom education was a specialty. Soon
after his father's death the family removed from Antioch College, just
as Horace was prepared to enter upon the regular course. He studied
at Concord for some time with private tutors, and then entered the
Scientific School at Cambridge, giving himself first to Zoology, espe-
cially Conchology, under Professor Agassiz, and afterwards to Botany
under Professor Gray. In 1864 he joined his friend William T.
Brigham in a visit to the Sandwich Islands by way of the Isthmus
and California ; and they explored this group in company, Mr. Mann
taking the Botany as his particular department, while Mr. Brigham
attended more to the Geology and Mineralogy. On his return to
Cambridge he took up the special study of Hawaiian plants, and re-
joined the Scientific School of Harvard University. Upon applying
for the degree of Bachelor of Science (which he obtained with honors
in 1867), he laid before his examiners, as his thesis, an elaborate and
critical " Enumeration of Hawaiian Plants," which was deemed worthy
of a place among the publications of this Academy. It fills almost
one hundred pages of the seventh volume of our Proceedings, and has
been recognized in the botanical world as a contribution of sterling
value. It had been preceded by two other papers in the Proceedings
of the Boston Society of Natural History upon certain new plants of
the Sandwich Islands, and it was to be followed by a complete Flora
of those Islands for the use of general botanists on the one hand, and
of the residents of the country on the other, such a work being a de-
sideratum for both. Mr. Mann had actually written out the greater
part of it, and three fasciculi were printed by the Essex Institute ; it is
hoped that the work may be completed from the notes and materials
left by him. The smaller papers and articles contributed by Mr. Mann
to the Boston Natural History Society and to scientific journals are at
least twelve in number. All his writings, in their simplicity, directness,
