OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 8, 1869. 133
atmosphere in which he delighted, and which he shed around his own
home and neighborhood, the world is indebted for the gifted astro-
nomical observer and computer, Miss Maria Mitchell. In 1831, the
daughter, though only thirteen years old, counted time for her father
while he observed the annular eclipse of the sun. From that time
until his death, the two worked together in perfect sympathy. Al-
though Mr. Mitchell had no official connection with Vassar College,
where he passed the last years of his life with his daughter, he ren-
dered valuable aid in its organization by his wisdom, his gentleness,
and his long experience as Overseer of Harvard College and member
of its visiting committees. The years spent in the Observatory of Vas-
sar College were remarkably happy. Only a year before his death he
wrote thus : " With scarcely a circumstance to throw a shade over my
declining years, I have made acquaintances among teachers and pro-
fessors which a prince might envy." And again he wrote: "I have
had my days of sorrow and of trial, but I know of no man, living or
dead, whose life has been so exempt from the evils common to man-
kind."
Without much strength of constitution, Mr. Mitchell lived to the
advanced age of seventy-seven, and died at length of old age. He ap-
proached death, not only with calmness, but with cheerfulness. Although
an invalid for the last year of his life, and confined to his room for
several months, his mind lost none of its vigor, and his interest in
physical science continued without any abatement to the end. He
listened to the reading of a letter a few hours before he died, and
spoke only a few minutes before he ceased to breathe.
Mr. Mitchell's character was that of the Christian gentleman. By
his sweetness and gentleness he won the love of all around him. He
had many friends, and it was scarcely possible that he could have a
single enemy. He was a lover of peace, and shed the sunshine of
peace into whatever circle he entered. A Quaker by birth, and
always in harmony with that sect, he illustrated in perfection its many
excellent characteristics. He was more of a thinker than a reader or
writer, and, under more favorable circumstances, might have been
widely known as a discoverer of truth. His principal writings are :
A highly appreciative account of the early history and achievements of
the Observatory of Harvard College, published in the Christian Ex-
aminer for March, 1851 ; two communications upon the Tails of
Comets, printed in Volume XXXVIII. of the American Journal of
