134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Science, April, 1840, and Volume XL., April, 1841 ; a brief account
of the Aurora of May 29, 1840, contained in Volume XXXIX. of the
same journal for October, 1840; an account of the discovery of the
Comet of October 1, 1847, by his daughter, Miss Maria Mitchell, for
which she received the comet medal, offered by the King of Denmark,
also in the same journal, Volume V., N. S., for May, 1848. In Volume
IX. of the Second Series of the American Journal of Science, Mr. Mit-
chell has given a brief notice of the scientific tastes and attainments of
Walter Folger, of Nantucket. The theory which Mr. Mitchell sug-
gested, and skilfully defended, in regard to the tails of comets, asserted
that they "are formed by the sun's rays, slightly refracted by the
nucleus, in traversing the envelope of the comet, and uniting in an in-
finite number of points beyond it, throwing a stronger than ordinary
light on the ethereal medium, near to or more remote from the comet,
as the ray, from its relative position .and direction, is more or less re-
fracted." Later in life, he felt the difficulties of his own, as of all
other theories, on this perplexing subject.
Charles Frederick Philip von Martius, the distinguished
botanist and traveller in Brazil, was born at Erlangen on the 17th of
April, 1794, and died at Munich, December 13, 1868. He came of a
learned stock: one of his ancestors, Galeottus Martius, born at Ra-
venna in 1428, was librarian of the celebrated library of Matthias
Corvinus, King of Hungary ; a great-uncle was the author of a Flora
of Moscow (the first edition of which, all but two copies, was consumed
in the conflagration of that city) ; and his father (who lived to a very
advanced age) was one of the three founders of the oldest botanical
Society extant, the Botanische Gesellschaft of Ratisbon. His botanical
teacher at the University of Erlangen was Schreber, who had studied
under Linnreus. His earliest work — his thesis for the doctorate — was
his Enumeratio Horti Botanici Erlangensis, in 1814. When, after the
death of Schreber, his collections were purchased for the Bavarian
Academy, the veteran Schrank was sent to Erlangen to convey them to
Munich. He there found in young Martius a student of such promise
that he attracted him to the Bavarian capital and employed him as his
assistant in the Botanic Garden. Here, while acting practically as
superintendent of the establishment, Martius was noticed by King
Maximilian, and soon after was selected by him to be one of the two
naturalists (Dr. Spix being the other) which that enlightened monarch
had insisted upon adding, at his own expense, to the scientific staff
