OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: JUNE 8, 1869. 135
which the Austrian government attached to the squadron which was
to convey to Rio the Austrian princess, about to become Empress of
Brazil. They embarked at Trieste in the spring of 1817 ; and during
the ensuing three years these two naturalists, with very moderate
means and appliances, made those extended explorations and precious
collections which — along with those of Humboldt — form the princi-
pal foundation of our knowledge of the natural history of Brazil, espe-
cially of the Amazon, which they ascended to within the frontiers of
Peru.
The health of Dr. Spix gave way under the fatigues and exposures
of these explorations ; and he died a few years after his return to'
Europe, shortly after the commencement of the publication of the ex-
tended series of works destined to record the results of the expedition.
The whole burden now fell upon Dr. Martius, with such assistance as
he could command from his pupils or others. For the ichthyological
collection he called upon a young zoologist, then a student at Munich,
now our own colleague, who thus made his first essay in the study of the
natural productions of that vast stream which he was destined person-
ally to explore, many years afterwards, under better than regal aus-
pices. The second and third volumes of the Reise in Brasilien, which
will compare favorably with Humboldt's "Personal Narrative," and
the great Atlas, were entirely by Martius. For the Nova Genera et
Species Plantarum Brasiliensiiim, he had the assistance of Zuccarini
only in the first volume. This work forms an epoch in botanical illus-
tration, not only for the completeness and excellence of the analyses,
but also as the earliest application to this purpose of the newly in-
vented art of engraving upon lithographic stone.
His greatest work — one specially adapted to the author's genius
and multifarious learning, and without doubt the most sumptuous
and elaborate of all botanical monographs — is the ffistoria Palmarum,
in three elephant-folio volumes, and containing two hundred and forty-
five plates. Begun in view of the Brazilian species merely, it was
soon expanded to embrace the whole noble family of Palms through-
out the world ; and its completion in 1850, crowning eighteen years of
labor, inseparably and for all time connects the name of Martius with
these princes of the vegetable kingdom, as Linnaaus aptly terms them.
While this last work was still in progress, and after some essays in
a humbler form, Von Martius planned, and in the year 1840 com-
menced the publication of, the folio Flora Brasiliensis, — the grandest
