1988 Turner, Taxonomy of Chrysanthellum 417
group based on my 40 or more years familiarity with
character variability and species-relationships in the
Asteraceae. Fig. IB., a Wagner-type diagram based upon
the characters shown in Table 1 , the species arranged
subjectively in concentric circles according to their
additive positions; and Ic, a more formal cladistic
analysis using the character states shown in Table 1 .
Figures lA and IB suggest that within Chrysanthellum
two phyletic lines exist, a group having ray ligules
mostly reduced with 2-3 nerves centering about C .
americanum , and a group having well-developed ligules
with 4-8 nerves centering around C_^ perennans . The
latter taxon, in particular, is believed to have retained
characters which approach Eryngiophyllum , namely a
perennial, rosulate habit, while C_^ pi Izii with its
subopposite leaves, evolute, ornate, disk achenes, and
prostrate habit is believed to be the most advanced.
A parsimony analysis (PAUP, David Swofford, 198x) of
the data presented in Table 2 resulted in 137 equal-
length trees of 40 steps each. Figure IC represents a
strict consensus tree derived from 100 of these.
Chrysanthellum is united as a monophyletic lineage by
synapomorphies in characters 11 {l->0), 14 (0->l), and 15
(l->0). Neuractis smithii and N_^ leschenaul t ii are
linked as sister taxa by synapomorphies in characters 8
(l->0), 9 (0->l), and 21 (l->0). The two species
Eryngiophyllum lack a character in this data set to unite
them as sister taxa.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This study is based upon the examination of
approximately 840 sheets from the following herbaria
(number of specimens shown in parenthesis): F (63), GH
(96), GOT (1), K (127), LL (60), LP (42), MICH (44), MO
(97), NY (106), TEX (66), UC (37), UNAM (15), US (84). I
am grateful to the Directors for loan of materials.
Linda Vorobik provided the illustrations and K. Nixon and
G. Nesom helped with the cladistic analysis. Dr. J.
Mears collected buds for the chromosome count of C .
pusillum .
CHRYSANTHELLUM Rich, ex Persoon
Annual or rarely perennial prostrate to erect mostly
glabrous herbs. Leaves predominantly alternate
( super f ica lly opposite in C_^ pi Izi i ) , simple to
bipinnatisect . Heads terminal or axillary, heterogamous,
radiate. Involucre 2-seriate, bracteate. Receptacle
plane to convex, with membranous, persistent linear
