424 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. 6A , No. 6
TVrmual, 5-30 on high, at first rosulate, the peduncles elongate
and arising from the center; primary stems erect, the secondary
branches decumbent or ascending and richly floriferous. Leaves
tritemately dissected, the divisions usually broad, but occasionally
quite linear. Peduncles 1-11 cm long. Involucres 2.5-3.0 mm long,
the involucral bracts ovate to ovate-lanceolate. Ray florets 5-23
(rarely more); ligules yellow, 2-3 mm long, 2-nerved and cleft at the
apex. Disk florets yellow, mostly "sterile" but often fertile;
corolla ca. 2 mm long, 4-lctoed. Achenes of the ray florets clavate,
1.0-1.3 mm long, usually tuberculate at maturity (sometimes
conspicuously so) or less often smooth; disk achenes slender,
somewhat flattened with smooth, rounded, shoulders.
ChrcHnosome number, 2n = 8 II (Turner, unpubl.)
DISTRIBUTION. Known only from the Galapagos Islands where it
occurs in an array of sites, mostly disturbed. Collections have been
seen from the following islands: Fernandina, Isabela, Rabida, San
Cristobal, San Salvador, Santa Cruz, Santa Fe, and Santa Maria.
Flowering, Jan-Apr.
I agree with Eliasson (1967) and Cronquist (1971) in relegating
C. eygg1;am to synonymy under this species. In spite of the
variability in branching habit and achene sculpture, both between and
within populations of this taxon, there appears to be but a single
species. Perhaps the most striking variability is seen in the leaf
segments, which are often quite linear (especially on San Cristctoal
Island), and in the tuberculate ray achenes, this latter feature also
varying among populations.
The two collections of Clyrysanthellmn fa^jrlipdli, ( Fgc[g£3JLnd 4
WiljSQn 3426 ; 3440 . S), both from Santiago Island, are enigmatic. The
plants appear to be teratological forms of C^^ Eugi 1 lum , the
collectors apparently having obtained plants typical of the latter
( £^ 4 W. , 3, 4 41. S) next to or near their collection 344,0 . What does
seem clear is that the few plants )aiown, while quite mature to judge
from their much-branched habits, do not seem to produce fruiting
material and their florets appear to be strangely reduced and
irregular with 3-5 lobings, etc. Such anomalies are found nowhere
else in the genus and extend to the involucre which is ccanprised of
linear-lanceolate several-seriate bracts suggesting an atavistic
reversion to some primordial developmental state. I have observed,
very rarely, similar individuals among Texas populations of
Gutierrez i a (Asteraceae), the plants nearly always being small-
headed, depauperate and sterile. Cronquist (1971) also does not
accept C, f ] a,gpr lAnd.ij, as a "good" taxon, referring to it as "a minor
form with very short rays and deeply cleft disk corolla, which will
probably fail to persist.. .with the typical C^ p>us ilium. The latter
will probably swamp the incipient species in a few generations."
Future field worker on Santiago Island should look for such forms to
see if the present impressions are borne out, for Eliasson (1972)
