1988 Turner, Taxonomy of Chrysanthellum 431
Chromosome number, un)cnown.
DISTRIBUTION (Fig. 3). Known only from India and adjacent
Nepal, where it occurs in grassy places from 250 to 3500 m.
Flowering, Aug-Oct.
With its small heads and relatively few ray florets, this
variety much resembles var. mexicanum but it can be distinguished
from the latter by its narrow-winged, nearly eciliate, disk achenes
and generally shorter peduncles. Because of this resemblance it
might have been reasonable to include var. mexicanum in the same
siabspecies with indicum but because of the distance separating their
respective locales and the fact that the North American populations
appear to have had a relatively more remote origin, perhaps relictual
in the sense that it occupies the center of diversity of the genus,
it seems more reasonable to assume that the Asian and Madagascar
populations are convergent in the morphological characters that
relate them to the Mexican populations. In short, phylogenetic
reasoning suggests that propagules from montane North American
populations, ancestral but similar to var. mjsxic anxim , by long
distance dispersal to the Andean regions, gave rise to var.
af jp^ejicapum ; populations of the latter were presumably dispersed
to Africa, India and Madagascar in relatively recent times, the
latter two regions developing smaller^headed, less-winged fruits thcin
is typical of the quite variable populations of var. af roamjsricaEum
on the African ocfitinent itself.
Inclusion of var. j-pdj-c^in and var. mad fig ^sc aren se in the same
subspecies largely reflects emphasis upon head size and it mic^t be
that they should be recognized as sufficiently distinct so as to be
treated as different subspecies. Eiiouq^ material f ran Madagascar was
not available to judge the constancy of the characters used to
distinguish between these, but from the material at hand var.
madgqapcarense seemed more distant from subsp. afrmmeri c^u m than
from var. ^iri di ^ cum .
Finally, it should be noted that some workers will surely say
that Veir. ^SKJ ^pm (and possibly var. madacpscajrense ) , being weedy, as
are all the varieties, was probably introduced into India from Africa
or South America during the past several hundred years and hence
hardly worthy of subspecific rank. Perhaps so, but as noted in part
by Hooker (1882) and wholly by Greenman (1903), the Indian
populations have a oombination of characters that readily distinguish
them from the African and American populations, hence their
recognition as a distinct taxon. However, taken on a worldwide
basis, C v ipdijaim is much too similar to selected African (and, as
already noted, Mexican) populations to be accorded specific rank;
indeed, if by chance an unlabeled Indian plant were transported to
South American I would be hard-pressed to recognize this as anything
more than an anomalous, few-flowered, small-fruited, form of
f f ^ r^o^ericanum . so much alike cire they in their basic morphology.
