SYNOPSIS OF CHAETOPAPPA (COMPOS I TAE-ASTEREAE)
WITH A NEW SPECIES AND THE INCLUSION OF LEUCELENE
Guy L. NesoB
Departaent of Botany, University of Texas, Austin 78713
ABSTRACT
Chaetopappa includes species with a pappus ranging from one of
strictly capillary bristles, a combination of bristles and scales, or
a short crown, or in two species the pappus is essentially absent.
Leucelene ericoides (Torrey) E. Greene, which has only bristles, is
transferred to Chaetopappa . Chaetopappa asteroides var. imberbis A.
Gray, an endemic of southeast Texas with only a coroniform pappus, is
elevated in rank to species. Chaetopappa keerlioides Shinners is
treated as a synonym of C^ parryi A. Gray. A key emphasizing pappus
characters is presented to distinguish the eleven species of the
genus, and a brief summary of the distribution, habitat, and
phenology is given for each species.
I. Merger of Leucelene with Chaetopappa
Chaetopappa as recognized by Shinners (1946a) included species
with a pappus of a hyaline crown, hyaline scales, or a combination of
an equal number (usually 5 each) of alternating scales and awn-like
bristles, or with the pappus reduced to a minute crown or ring and
appearing essentially absent. Soreng and Spellenberg (1984) recently
described a new species with a pappus of numerous (13-19) bristles as
well as an outer series of narrowly lanceolate scales. The
description (Turner, 1977) of the distinctive C^ plomoensis B. Turner
added what appears to be only a small evolutionary step further in
diversification of the pappus in Chaetopappa — numerous (ca. 25)
bristles without scales. Turner contrasted C^ plomoensis with C.
parryi A. Gray, which has a coroniform pappus without bristles, and I
agree that the two species appear to be closely related.
The widespread and common Leucelene ericoiodes (Torrey) Greene
has long been recognized as closely similar to Chaetopappa . Shinners
(1946b) commented that "It hardly differs from Chaetopappa except in
the entirely capillary pappus and characteristically creeping root
and often partially underground stem." Since the pappus of C.
plomoensis is identical to that of L^ ericoides , and caudex-like,
partially underground branches commonly occur in C_^ parryi and C^
plomoensis . Leucelene cannot be justifiably maintained as a genus
separate from Chaetopappa . I make the following combination to unite
them:
448
