A NEW SPECffiS OF, AND OBSERVATIONS ON, THE GENUS
SMALLANTHUS (ASTERACEAE - HELIANTHEAE)
B.L. TURNER
Department of Botany, Univ. of Texas, Austin, TX 78713, U.S.A.
The well-known genus Polymnia L. was treated by Wells (1965) as
comprised of 19 species, most of which were confined to Mexico, Central
and South America. Robinson (1978), following the suggestions of earlier
workers, redefined the genus, restricting Polymnia to but 2 species
endemic to the eastern U.S.A. and adjacent Canada; the remainder of the
species were positioned in Smallanthus Mackenzie. Indeed, Robinson
(1981) was so certain of the phyletic distance between the two taxa that
he erected the monotypic subtribe Polymniinae to house Polymnia ,
positioning Smallanthus in the subtribe Melampodiinae. While I cannot
subscribe to his subtribal views, careful examination of the characters
emphasized by Robinson, and comparison of these with yet other
characters of related genera, strongly suggests that 2 genera are
envolved. At least they are as distinct from each other as are the
genera Trigonospermum (base chromosome number, x = 15) and
Si gesbeckea (x = 15), and it might be that Polymnia stands as close to
the latter two genera as it does to Smallanthus (x = 16 or 8?), the latter
of which appears as close to Rumfordia (x = 24 or 8?) is it does to
Polymnia .
In any case, we will treat Smallanthus as a good genus in our
forthcoming treatment of the Asteraceae of Mexico (Turner & Nesom, in
prep.). In the present study of Smallanthus I have had occasion to
consider the relationship of S^ uvedalius of the southeastern U.S.A.
(Wells, 1965) to that of L maculatus . which has heretofore been treated
as a distinct species of Mexico and Central America. After examination
of numerous specimens throughout the range of both taxa, I conclude that
there are no characters, or combination of characters, that will
adequately separate them. Wells used achene size to distinguish between
these (achenes greater than 5 mm long and 4 mm wide in S. uvedalius .
versus less that 5 mm long and 4 mm wide in S^ maculatus ). But achene
size is a very inconstant character and varies throughout the range of
the putative species. In fact, while both Blake (1917) and Wells (1965)
recognized several varieties under these two species. I cannot recognize
but a single variable species, as shown in Fig 1. This conclusion is
nicely affirmed by Wells who comments upon the presence of 3 varieties
of Smallanthus uvedalius on the island of Bermuda, all apparantly derived
from a single introduction from the mainland sometimes between 1883-1905.
He states, "Thus the presence of three varieties there probably must be
explained by mutation or segregation in the island". Clearly the
morphological expressions of this species are easily shifted, given novel
conditions. In my opinion, the submergence of the names concerned is
long overdue.
405
