1988 Neson, Synopsis of Chaetopappa 451
a key to species that emphasizes differences in pappus, which can be
observed even on relatively immature fruits. Typification and more
detailed synonymy are found in the revision by Shinners (1946a).
Keck (1958) considered the species of Pentachaeta to be
congeneric with Chaetopappa . Van Horn (1973), however, on the basis
of a wide range of evidence rejected this conclusion and maintained
the two as separate genera.
CHAETOPAPPA DC.
Annual or perennial herbs 5-30 cm tall. Leaves alternate,
simple, entire, linear to obianceolate-obovate to spatulate. Heads
solitary and terminal, not crowded, heterogamous, turbinate-cylindric
to hemispheric, 2-10 mm wide; phyllaries elliptic to linear-
lanceolate, in 2-6 graduated series, with wide, prominent, whitish-
scarious margins. Receptacle scrobiculate, epaleate, flat or slightly
convex. Ray flowers uniseriate, pistillate fertile, the ligules
usually white, drying white to blue or purple, coiling upon maturity.
Disc flowers hermaphroditic, fertile but the central ones sometimes
abortive, the corollas yellow, tubular, regular; style appendages
shailowly triangular to narrowly triangular. Achenes terete to
strongly compressed, 2-5-, 8-, or 10-nerved; carpopodium absent or
barely perceptible. Pappus of a hyaline crown, hyaline scales, awn-
like bristles, or a combination of alternating scales and bristles,
or reduced to a minute crown or ring and appearing essentially
absent. Chromosome numbers, n=8, 9, 16 pairs.
KEY TO THE SPECIES
1. Pappus absent or essentially so, represented by a minute,
thickened ring or corona at the achene summit. (2)
2. Plants perennial, fibrous-rooted; lower cauline leaves
lanceolate-oblong, 6-12 mm wide, subclasping, very abruptly
reduced in size in the capitulescence; ray achenes 2-ribbed;
pappus a thickened ring or minute, erose crown less than 0.1 mm
high Ci effusa
2. Plants annual, taprooted; lower cauline leaves obovate-
spatulate, 1-3 ■■ wide, not clasping; ray achenes 10-ribbed;
pappus a minute, thickened ring C^ bellidifolia
1. Pappus of awn-like bristles alone or of scales alone or a
combination of alternating bristles and scales. (3)
3. Pappus of bristles alone, or if scales present, minute and less
than 0.1 mm high. (4)
4. Plants forming low mats less than 20 mm high; pappus of (-4) 5
(-6) bristles 2-4.2 mm long and an outer series of minute
scales or squamellae less than 0.1 mm long C^ hersheyi
