454 P H Y T L G I A Vol. 64, No. 6
Taaaulipas, by its stea pubescence of spreading or soaewhat aatted
hairs. The typical fora, however, occurs with var. hirticaulis in
single, intergrading populations in the San Carlos area and does not
seea worthy of foraal recognition. Further, several collections of
otherwise typical £i. bellioides with spreading-ascending stea hairs
have been aade froa different localities in Nue. Plants of C.
bellioides with atsrpically large leaves also have been collected froi
Taaaulipas.
CHAETOPAPPA EFPUSA (A. Gray) Shinners, Wrightia 1:68. 1946.
Keerlia effusa A. Gray
Endeaic to the central part of the Edwards Plateau in south-
central Texas; liaestone cliffs or hillsides, soaetiaes in seepy
areas, oak-juniper, oak, or aixed deciduous woods; May-Oct.
Chroaosoae nuaber, n=9 pairs.
CHAETOPAPPA ELEGANS Soreng & Spellenberg, Syst. Bot. 9:1. 1984.
Endeaic to the White Mountains of south-central New Mexico,
crevices in granitic outcrops, area of fir-pine-oak woods; 2500 i
May- Jul. Chroaosoae nuaber, n=9 pairs.
CHAETOPAPPA ERICOIDES (Torrey) Nesoa, see above
Inula ? ericoides Torrey
Leucelene ericoides (Torrey) E. Greene
Diplopappus ericoides (Torrey) Torrey k Gray
Leucelene arenosa Heller
Aster arenosus (Heller) Blake
Western United States froa Texas and Oklahoaa to Nevada,
California amd Wyoaing, northern Mexico froa Sonora, Durango, and
Zacatecas to Taaaulipas and San Luis Potosi; coaaon in, a variety of
habitats grasslands, aatorral, Larrea, oak, pine-oak, pine-juniper,
aesquite, and thorn-scrub; 1100-2S00 a; Mar-Nov. Chroaosoae nuabers,
n=8, 16 pairs.
A geographically widespread species highly variable in the type
and aaount of pubescence as well as other features. Of 34 chroaosoae
counts aade froa Arisona, New Mexico, Texas, and Chihuahua by Ward
and Spellenberg (1986), all except two were tetraploid (n=16 pairs).
Shinners (1946) noted that the late season forms are taller with
narrower, less pubescent leaves, narrower and fewer- flowered heads,
and shorter ligules. Soae plants lack the dense vestiture of
stipitate glands, but there does not appear to be a clear geographic
pattern to the occurrence of these. Shinners also noted that a
variant form in northern Mexico with fewer, more widely spaced leaves
with long-attenuate petiolar bases might be considered varietally
distinct, but I find intergradation complete between these and acre
typical plants.
