466 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. 64, No. 6
festis et divergentibus supra medium in nervum collectivLm a margine 0.2-0.25 cm
remotum conjunctis. Inflorescentia praecox, solitaria. Pedunculus 6 cm longus.
Spatha convoluta in dimidio superiore sensim attenuate et valde incurvata, in sicco
ca. 5.5 cm longa, demum partim aperiens y cuculiata, in fructu retenta. Spadix 1.4
cm longus, flavus. Infructescentia globoidea ca. 2 cm longa et crassa, multis
fructibus. Baccae obovoideae atropurpureae, in sicco 0.6 cm longae, 1-2-spermae.
Semina ambitu plerumque apostrophiformia interdum subcircularia, 0.45 cm longa, 0.3
cm crassa, sucinacia et irregulariter pusticulata.
The leaves of this species are unique in the genus. The ternately
pinnate blade has entire, narrowly linear laminae to only 1.6 cm
wide (in sicco) and to 45 cm long; the central part of the blade
has three such segments, and each lateral part has two. It is said
to be difficult to distinguish these leaves from those of grasses
and other plants among which they grow.
In this taxon, there are two or three flowers near the apex of
the spadix that are each subtended by a pointed bract to 4.5 mm
long, comparable, no doubt, to the somewhat larger processes that
occur in D. changuango Bunt, and D. aricuaisanum Bunt.
This species is common in open savanna in a zone with a marked
dry season, growing in low, moist sandy areas. At the time of leaf
production, the habitats are inundated by 6-8 inches of water. The
corm, which grows 2-4 inches below the soil surface, can be eaten
after being boiled or roasted.
Common names: gipae (Pume); changuango sabanero (Spanish).
HETEROPSIS
Heteropsis flexuosa (HBKj Bunt. var. maguirei Bunt., var. nov. TYPE:
Maguire , Steyermark & Maguire 53515 (holotype, NY): Venezuela:
Bolfvar: alto rio Cuyuni, no Uiri-yuk, El Foco, 30 Aug 1962.
A varietate typica differt petiolis multo longioribus, 1.4-2 cm longis (in ilia
0.3-1.2 cm longis).
The longer petioles of this variety are very distinctive. Similar
[sterile] material, with petioles to four cm long, has been collect-
ed at the base of Cerro Yapacana, Territorio Federal Amazonas.
PHILODENDRON
Philodendron brevispathum Schott subsp. holmquistii (Bunt.) Bunt.,
Stat. nov. Philodendron holmquistii Bunt., Acta Bot. Venezuelica
10: 297. 1975. Philodendron brevispathum var. wurdackii Croat,
Aroideana 9: 88. 1986.
The disjunct distribution and differences in floral characters
easily distinguish this subspecies from the typical one. The apex
