' 1988 Bunting, New Venezuelan Araceae 467
of the pistils is convex with three or four stigmatic pads, and the
three or four locules per ovary are mostly 7- 14-ovulate . Though
existing collections suggest that this subspiecies is not a common
plant, it is widely distributed in the Orinoco drainage from Bolivar
and Anzoategui to the south of Territorio Federal Amazonas, as well
as in adjacent Colombia and Brazil. In typical P^. brevispathum ,
the apex of the pistils is more or less truncate, with a marginal
flange and a central, solitary stigmatic pad, while the locules of
the ovary are mostly 14- 18-ovulate . It occurs only in Central
America from Nicaragua to Panama.
It seems unwarranted to maintain P. brevispathum var. wurdackii
as a separate taxon. The type specimen ( Maguire et al . 36692 [NY,
2 sheets] has deformed leaf blades: one is a monstrosity, the other
imperfect. The VEN specimen of this collection is more nearly nor-
mal and offers insufficient bases for separation from the other
material. It has a solitary inflorescence with the spadix borne on
a stipe 11-12 mm long, as is typical in subsp. holmquistii , and the
characters of the apex of the pistils correspond to this subspecies.
Philodendron callosum Krause subsp. ptarianum (Steyerm.) Bunt.,
Stat. nov. Philodendron ptarianum Steyerm., Fieldiana Bot. 28:
99. 1951.
The subspecies ptarianum has nearly smooth petioles (sometimes
the geniculum verruculose) and leaf blades adaxially smooth or
striolate-sulcate but not rugulose. It has a wide distribution in
southeastern Venezuela, occurring on the sandstone mesetas of
Edo. Bolivar and Territorio Federal Amazonas, and apparently grows
in adjacent Brazil.
Typical £. callosum has densely verruculose petioles, and the
leaf blades are rugulose adaxially with sulcate lateral veins inter-
connected by sulcate transverse veins. Though its known distribu-
tion in Venezuela is restricted to the eastern margin of the Gran
Sabana, it also occurs in adjacent Guyana and Brazil.
Philodendron conforme Bunt., sp. nov. TYPE: Croat 59355 (MO):
Venezuela: Amazonas: Depto. Rio Negro: vicinity of Cerro Neblina
project base camp, just east of camp along "Bongo Trail", along
south bank of Rio Mawarinuma, 0°50' N., 66°10'W., 140 m. , 27 Nov
1984. Figure 7.
P. deflexo Poepp. primo adspectu simile, sed ovarii loculis (2-)3-ovulatis statim
dignoscendum (in illo uniovulatis); a P. yuta.iensi Bunt, omnium partium magnitudine
majore, cataphyllis caducis itaque caule nudo, petiole ad medium tereti, laminae
costalis posticis in sinu per tantum 2.5 cm nudis (in illo 5.5-6 cm), spatha pedun-
culo suo 2-3plo longiore (in illo spatha pedunculum aequante), ovarii loculis ovulis
paucioribus ferentibus differt; a P. nebulensi Bunt, iterum cataphyllis caducis
itaque caule nuda, praeterea petiolo laminam aequante, lamina proportione paulo
latiore differt.
