472 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. 64, No. 6
A P. ornato Schott petiolo terete laevique (in illo fere semiterete et plerumque
saltum parte distali verruculoso) , foliorum lamina coriacea (in illo tenuiore),
margine lobi antici altera ex medio deorsum sat recta, lobis posticis sat angula-
ribus (in illo semper rotundatis) distinguitur.
Climbing herb. Stem to 4 cm diam. , internodes short. Cataphyll
to 26 cm long, wilting and drying in place, later decomposing to
masses of fine, reticulate, tan fibers and epidermal remains. Pet-
iole terete at middle, toward apex slightly flattened, 54-62 cm
long. Leaf blade 0.73-0.85 as long as petiole, reflexed, subcoria-
ceous (in sicco), more or less ovate in outline, or one side with
margin nearly straight in lower half, 45-51 cm long, 26-29 cm wide
(1.6-1.76 times longer than wide), base cordate-sagittate, toward
apex obtuse and widely acuminate (1.5 cm); posterior lobes introrse,
trapeziform-triangular and angulose but apically blunt, or more or
less rounded, separated by a somewhat spathulate or submitriform
sinus 14-15.5 cm deep; matte on both faces (in sicco), I. lateral
veins ca. 5 per side with well-marked II. and III. laterals, arising
at angle of ca. 60-65°, arcuate throughout, posterior lobes with 2
principal lateral veins toward outside and 2-3 weaker ones
descending, the basal ribs nude in sinus for 2-4 cm. Inflorescence
unknown.
This species suggests P^. ornatum Schott, but the petiole is
terete and smooth rather than nearly semiterete and verruculose,
and the coriaceous leaf blade often has the lateral margin on one
side quite straight in the lower half and the posterior lobes
rather angular. By its epiphytic habit, it differs from P^. yuta-
jense , as well as by its ovate leaf blade widest at a point opposite
to, or slightly above, the petiole insertion, and by the shorter
nude portion of the basal ribs. Differences between ^. nebulense
and P. conforme are discussed under the latter species. Until
fertile material is collected, however, it is impossible to ascer-
tain the natural affinities of P. nebulense.
PhilodeDdron peperomioides Bunt., sp. nov. TYPE: B. Hoist & R. Liesner
2704 (holotype, MO): Venezuela: Bolivar: Dtto. Piar: southwest
base of Amaruay-tepui, W of Aparaman-tepui, S'SS' N., 62°I5' W.,
500-600 m, 25 Apr 1986. Figure 14.
Philodendri rudqeani Schott primo adspectu maxime simile, sed alls petiolaribus
paulo tantum apertis et usque ad vel paulo ultra geniculi basim productis, foliorum
lamina in sicco semicoriacea apice leniter acuminata, nervis lateralibus primariis
utrinque ca. 6 sub angulo 35-40 prodeuntibus.
Scandent herb. Old stems with internodes 10.5-12.5 cm long, 0.5
cm diam.; terminal branches leafy and pendent, internodes 0.5-2 cm
long, with yellowish, epidermal layer sloughing off. Leaves appar-
ently distichous. Petiole slender; wings slightly open, apically
rounded, prominently ribbed, ca. 0.5 cm wide, ending at or slightly
beyond the base of geniculum; geniculum to 0.5 cm long. Leaf blade
