474 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. 64, No. 6
ca. 3 times longer than petiole, semicoriaceous, iin sicco somewhat
pliable, narrowly obovate, to 15.5 cm long, 4.6 cm wide (3.4 times
longer than wide), flat, base narrowly cuneate, apex gently acumi-
nate with a 1 mm-long cusp, matte on both faces, midrib slightly
elevated on both faces, lateral veins all subequal adaxially, abax-
ially with 6 I. lateral veins arising at angle of 35-45°. Inflores-
cence unknown.
This taxon is a member of sect. Pteromischum. It differs from P.
rudgeanum by the petiole wings only slightly open (not spreading)
and reaching only to or slightly beyond the base of the geniculum
(not to or beyond the base of the blade). Moreover, the leaf blade
has a thicker consistency, its apex is gently (not abruptly) acumi-
nate, and the fewer primary lateral veins arise at a sharper angle.
Unfortunately, the available material is sterile.
Philodendron peperomioides is known only from the type collection
made at 500-600 m elevation, in a dryer habitat than that of the
coastal lowland forests were P. rudgeanum occurs.
Philodendron phlebodes Bunt. var. kermesinum Bunt., var. nov. TYPE:
Maguire , Wurdark &^ Bunting 37383 (holotype, NY): Venezuela:
Amazonas : Depto. Rio Negro: Cerro de la Neblina, slope forest
between camp 2 and 3, on top of boulders, ca. 500 m, 24 Jan 1954.
A varietate typica foliorum lamina majors ad 66 cm longa qua ex supra medium
deorsum plus minusve oblonga est (in ilia ad tantum 56 cm longa et ambitu ovata),
spatha intus ubique kermesina (non cremicolori), spadicis parte pistillata multo
breviore tantum 2.3 cm longa (in ilia 7-10 cm longa) differt.
The leaf blade of this variety, which reaches 66 cm long and 35
cm wide, is more or less oblong in outline in the lower two-thirds.
While the spathe is cream-colored on the outside, as in the typical
variety, it is red overall on the inside, and the pistillate part
of the spadix is quite short. There is some question if the latter
characteristic is a valid difference or only a manifestation of
ovary maturation.
This taxon is represented by a single collection made at an alti-
tude of 500 m on the slopes of Cerro de la Neblina. Typical P^.
phlebodes occurs more widely in the southern part of Territorio
Federal Amazonas, as a climber on tree trunks in lowland forest at
ca. 125 m altitude.
Philodendron remifolium Schultes subsp. sabulosum (Bunt.) Bunt.,
Stat. nov. Philodendron sabulosum Bunt., Phytologia 60: 326.
1986.
The leaf blade of typical £. remifolium has the form of a paddle
used by indigenous peoples of the area, in the type specimen being
1.7 times longer than wide, with the petiole shorter than the blade
