1988 Turner, A new species of Smallanthus 407
This taxon is distinguished by its deeply 3-lobed leaves, glandular-
pubescent stems, ovate outer involucral bracts which are glandular-
pubescent or coarsely hispidulous, or both, on the abaxial surfaces, and
8-11 ray florets with yellow ligules. It seemingly combines features of
both Smallanthus oaxacanus and S. uvedalius and is perhaps an ancestral
hybrid derivitive of these two species. I do not believe these to be, in
situ , newly spawned hybrids since S^ obscurus has not been collected at
any one site with any of their putative parents, nor does there appear to
be anything but fertile achenes on ^ obscurus . As shown in Fig. 1,
however, the latter taxon is known to occur in a region where both S^
oaxacanus and S^ uvedalius occurs and it is possible that what I have
described here as new is, in fact, a remarkable series of rather uniform
hybrids between these, neither parent of which was collected at the site
concerned by the collectors cited. Indeed, one of the collections cited
above ( Breedlove 29299) appears to approach S^ uvedalius in characters
of the involucre and this might prove to be a hybrid derivitive of St
uvedalius x S^ obscurus. This might also be true for Breedlove &
Strother 46353 . which appears to approach S^ uvedalius in characters of
the involucre but this is only an approach; Breedlove & Strother 46340,
collected at the same site, is typical S^ obscurus . Apparantly S,
maculatus was not colleted at this locality by the collectors concerned.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I am grateful to the following herbaria for the loan of specimens:
(F, GH, MO, NY, LL, TEX). The Latin diagnosis was rendered by Guy
Nesom.
LITERATURE CITED
Blake, S.F. 1917. Polymnia uvedalia and its varieties. Rhodora 19: 46-48.
Robinson, H. 1978.. .Re-establishment of the genus Smallanthus . Phytologia
47-52.
1981. Subtribe Polymniinae. Smithsonian Contr. Bot. 51:
38-39.
Wells, J.R. 1965. A taxonomic study of Polymnia (Compositae). Brittonia
17: 144-159.
