1988 Moldenke, Book reviews 501
"A MONOGRAPH OF THE LICHEN GENUS PARHELIA ACHARIUS
SENSU STRICTO (ASCOMYCOTINA: PARMELIACEAE) " by Mason E.
Hale Jr. iii + 55 pp., 109 black/white photo. & 6 maps.
Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D.C. 20560.
1987. Paperbound.
This publication is no. 66 in the Smithsonian
Contributions to Botany Series and is the excellently
prepared work of the world-famous lichenologist long on
the Smithsonian staff. The author characterizes the
genus with gross features and those revealed by SEM and
chemical tests that lead to dividing the genus into 3 8
described species including 7 new ones. Since Parmelia
is found world-wide in temperate forests on rocks and
trees and in tundra on rocks, mosses and humus with
concentration and dispersement centers in Japan and New
Zealand this monograph proves to be worldwide in scope
and yet a finely detailed definitive taxonomic study.
When black/white photographs of lichens appear in
print, the results typically are poor; but the many
photographs in this monograph are the best I have ever
seen.
"THE TREES OF NORTH AMERICA" text by Alan Mitchell and
illustrations by David Moore, 208 pp., 85 color full
plates and half plates, 156 tree silhouette and North
American geographic distribution maps, Facts on File
Publications, Inc. New York, N.Y. 10016. 1987. $24.95.
This is a very attractive and informative book
about virtually all trees - native and introduced -
found in the United States and Canada in their original
niches, naturally or artificially spread and
intentionally or accidentally introduced from beyond
these borders. For hundreds of these taxa the text
gives common and scientific names, descriptions, uses,
horticultural variations, specially well known growing
sites (as from botanical gardens and historic areas) ,
and geographic distributions using the U.S. 2-letter
space-saving abbreviations. The book just sparkles
with its copious, effective, accurate, colored drawings
of these plants and their parts. This book will prove
of great value to horticultural, forestry, arbor ist
students, schools and practitioners. And to anybody
else who likes to look at attractively and effectively
illustrated books on trees.
