Inasmuch as we do no editing, papers accepted for publication must be
submitted in exactly the form that the author wants to have them published.
They will then be photographed and printed by photo-offset in exactly the form
as submitted except that we will add page numbers and runnintj-heaJo.
Typescripts should be prepared single-spaced on clean white heavy bond smooth
and opaque paper. Elite type is probably the most space-economical. Typescript
text must not exceed a rectangle SVs inches wide (horizontal) by SVs inches high
(vertical), not including the running-head and page number.
The title of the paper should be typed in all uppercase (capital) letters with 2
blank lines above the title and one beneath; then the name of the author in
ordinary upper- and lower-case letters, along with his address (if so desired);
followed by 2 blank lines; then the first line of text. It is usually best to leave a
blank line between paragraphs.
All scientific plant and animal names and group names should be typed either
in italic type (if available) or underscored. Any corrections in the text made by
the author must be complete and neat as they will be photographed as they are.
The finished typescript as submitted by the author will be reduced from the
8% X 5% inch size as submitted to 6% x 4 inches by the printer. It is therefore
advisable to place a centimeter or millimeter scale on all text figures and plates
included.
Use a new heavily inked black typewriter ribbon and be sure to clean the type
on the typewriter after each several pages of typing.
Cost of publication at present is $12.00 US per page, with no subsequent
rebates, but this rate may vary depending on inflation and costs, so it is best to
inquire as to current rates. The page charges are due with the typescript and no
paper will be published before payment is received in full. Each author will receive
gratis a proportionate share of the printed copies remaining after paid subscrip-
tions are filled, but if separates (reprints or offprints) are desired, these will be
charged extra in accord with the current rate for offprints provided by the printer.
The cost of all such separates ordered must also be paid for in advance at the
time the typescript is sent. No orders for separates will be accepted later, nor can
additions or corrections be accepted.
Authors are asked to indicate in light pencil on the reverse side of each page
of their typescript the page number so that no mistakes in sequence occur.
All manuscripts accepted will be published in the next issue, so that the size
of the numbers may vary greatly. A volume will contain 512 pages. The plan
insures prompt publication of all accepted manuscript.
Illustrations will be published according to the desires of the authors. No extra
charge is made for line drawings, such as are ordinarily reproduced in zinc, or
for diagrams, tables, or charts, provided they conform to certain limitations of
size and proportion. An extra charge will be made for halftones, depending on
their size, as fixed by the engraver.
Articles dealing with research in all lines of botany and plant ecology, in any
reasonable length, biographical sketches, and critical reviews and summaries of
literature will be considered for publication.
