412 PHYTOLOGIA Vol. 64, No. 6
C^ tamaulipense 8 Strother (1972);
reported as C .
involutum.
With the exceptions noted below, chromosome numbers
have been obtained mostly from meiotic material with
clear counts of n_=8 pairs (which is the same as 2[^=8
pairs of authors). Chrysanthellum michoacanum has been
reported to have n^=9 pairs, but the camera lucida
drawings documenting this number (attached to the
voucher, TEX!) do not appear unequivical and it is
possible that the number is n^8 pairs, with univalents
(or chromosomal fragments). Counts of iv=12 pairs for C.
pilzii appear to be unequivical, this representing a
fertile triploid on a base of x=8 or perhaps a tetraploid
on a base of x=4 ,
GENERIC RELATIONSHIPS
Eryngiophyllum , a poorly known genus of only 2
species from the Pacific slopes of Mexico, is the closest
relative of Chrysanthellum . Both have alternate leaves
and show the Kranz syndrome and are distinguished largely
by habital features: Chrysanthellum is a tap-rooted
annual or short-lived perennial with mostly cauline
leaves whilst Eryngiophyllum is a rosette-forming,
strongly perennial, herb with a woody, corm-like, tap
root. Indeed, the 2 genera are so alike as to vegetative
and floral features that I am inclined to combine the
two, but have retained them pending chromosomal and
chemical studies.
Past Eryngiophyllum one must look to South American
genera (e.g., Isostigma , a largely Brazilian genus with
alternate leaves and the Kranz syndrome) or perhaps to
Neuract is , a small Malasian genus which Backer (1913)
transferred to Chrysanthellum , and which was retained by
Backer (1965) in his treatment of the Asteraceae of Java,
a view rejected in the present paper, but one that speaks
to the remote relationships of both Chrysanthellum and
Eryngiophyllum .
SPECIES RELATIONSHIPS
Relationships among the 11 species recognized in the
present paper are believed to be close. Three of these,
C. americanum , C. indicum and C_^ pusillum , are especially
close and can be recognized by their 2-nerved small ray
ligules; the remaining 8 possess 4-8 nerved ligules and
are more diverse. I have shown their hypothetical
relationships in three diagrams: Fig. lA. , a "seat-of-
the-pants" construct based on my intuitive "feel" of the
