March 25, 1966 Avifauna of Tanzania I 7
about a half-tone lower than the preceding. The first syllable and
the last are slightly accentuated: "pi-pi-tu." The call is many times
repeated, often in a seemingly endless sequence with short intervals.
Occasionally a 4th or even a 5th syllable may be added to one call:
"pi-pi-tu - - pi-pi-tu - - pi-pi-tu - - pi-pi-pi-tu - - pi-pi-pi-tu"
etc. More rarely another, entirely different, call is uttered. It can
be approximately circumscribed as follows: "h u i-h li o - - h u i-
h u - - h u i-h li o - -." The "u" of the second syllable is strongly
accentuated and sustained. This call may be repeated 20-30 times
in one row, while its timbre becomes more and more excited and
the sequence more and more rapid until it reaches a screaming
quality before the abrupt end.
Centropus senegalensis subspecies?
Description. A population appearing like fiecki Reichenow,
three males in breeding condition collected near Chimala, 58 miles
east of Mbeya, southern Tanzania difi'er from the latter by: 1)
deep coal black color of the top of the head and of the nape, the
latter showing a distinct metallic-blue gloss, 2) clear white under-
parts from chin to belly, including sides on neck, only the flanks
being tinged with cream, and 3 ) the mantle and wings being bright
cinnamon-rufous. These birds measure: wing 161-168 (165.5)
mm.
Comment. West of Chimala the brachystegia-type of woods
of the northern slopes of the Kipengere Range extends to the north,
beyond the Chimala-Mbeya road, for some miles into the Buhoro
Flats of the Upper Ruaha-basin. Where the open flats meet the
northern border of these woods, this species lives side by side with
Centropus superciliosus Hemp, and Ehr. There is, however, a
clear, ecological differentiation between the two. While supercil-
iosus inhabits mainly the scattered complexes of dense, low scrub
and stands of cane, particularly on the flats and along the shores
of small rivers, occasionally visiting one of the isolated, low acacia
trees, senegalensis on the contrary is found only along the borders
of the dry forest belt and its refuge is invariably in the crowns of
trees. Even specimens found hunting in lower bushes do not dive
for cover into the dense ground vegetation to hide as superciliosus
would do, but instead fly into the crowns of the taller trees as
