8 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 96
soon as disturbed. They are extremely shy and difficult to ap-
proach, also differing in this regard considerably from supercUiosus.
During January the birds were in breeding condition and were seen
only in couples, the two mates keeping always closely together,
even when pursued for a long distance. One male from central
Northern Rhodesia (Mulyashi) in the collection of the Smith-
sonian Institution agrees in color with these birds, while another
adult male and an adult female from Northern Rhodesia agree
with the original description of flecki Reichenow. These facts sug-
gest two entirely different possible explanations: either these birds
represent a new subspecies which meets the more southern sub-
species flecki in central Northern Rhodesia, where both forms may
perhaps intergrade, or else our Chimala birds are not a subspecies
at all but merely the so far undescribed "basic plumage" (see
Lawson, 1962) of the subspecies flecki. This basic plumage may
not develop in all specimens as in Centropus supercUiosus burchel-
lii Swainson. This problem still needs thorough investigation.
Meanwhile we believe that two discrete populations are involved.
Lybius leucocephalus albicauda (Shelley).
Material. Northern Tanzania, western side of Lake Man-
yara — 5 cJ ad, 1 ? ad, beginning of August 1962; weight: 4 6 74-81
(74.6) g, ? 76 g; wing: 5 c5 94-98 (96.5) mm, 5 97 mm. Northern
Tanzania, east of Mt. Meru (near Sanya Yuu and Momella) — 1 $
ad, 1 9 ad; weight: S 78.5 g, 2 73 g; wing: S 98 mm, 9 95 mm.
Praed and Grant (1952, vol. 1, p. 706) give the range of this
species as "Southern Kenya ... to northern Tanganyika . . . from
south-west Lake Victoria and Rusinga and Ukerewe Islands to
Mbulu, Lolkissale and the Dodoma District."
Like Lybius torquatus Dumont this species occasionally utters
a social, antiphonal song during which 4-6 birds may gather in
the crown of a tall tree. In contrast to the clear, ringing call of
torquatus the voice of leucocephahis is extremely unmelodic, coarse
and rasping. Heard from some distance, the call sounds like: "Kra
Kre . . . Kra Kre . . . Kra Kre . . ." usually 4-8 times repeated
in fairly fast sequence; the first of the two syllables of each "call"
is accentuated and somewhat higher than the second. It is assumed
that the two syllables are alternately uttered by the two partners
of the duetting.
