March 25, 1966 Avifauna of Tanzania I 17
Erythropygia brunneiceps Reichenow.
Material. Northern Tanzania, Mt. Meru, northern and north-
eastern foot, also near Engare Nanyuki and at the Longido steppe —
6 c5 ad, 1 9 ad; weight: 6 i 23-25.5 (24.2) g. $ 21 g; wing: 6 i 72-
78 (74.7) mm, ? 70 mm.
Ripley (in Peters' 1964, vol. 10, p. 20) gives the range of this
species as "Central Kenya and Tanganyika, from Kidong Valley to
Ukamba, south to Manyara, Uaso Nyiro and Mt. Kilimanjaro. . . ."
This species is an inhabitant of semiarid, open, poorly wooded
areas in altitudes between 1500 and 1800 m, where it keeps to
small groups of bushes, widely scattered between single trees. It
is much less shy and elusive than leiicophrys zambezicina, and
distinctly less agil and more conspicuous. The singing male can
easily be approached and observed. Its song is similar to leii-
cophrys zcunbeziana, but of a distinctly different quality, less,
monotonous, more variegated and as a whole more pleasant to
the human ear.
It was assumed that this form replaces leiicophrys zambezicina
geographically in the area from central Kenya "south to Manyara
and Mt. Kilimanjaro." Heinrich found typical leiicophrys zam-
beziana at Lake Manyara as well as at Mt. Meru, at the latter
locality in close neighborhood with brunneiceps, but ecologically
distinctly separated from the latter.
Praed and Grant (1955, vol. 2, p. 316) have distinguished
brunneiceps from leiicophrys zambeziana only by the darker and
browner head and mantle and by the white edges to inner sec-
ondaries. There are a number of other differences, some of which
have perhaps major importance for the judgment of the taxonomic
status of brunneiceps, as they distinguish the latter not only from
one but from all subspecies of leiicophrys; 1) iris black-brown
(instead of brownish-gray), 2) legs slate gray (instead of pale,
almost whitish or ivory), 3) under mandible black, with only the
base of ventral side narrowly pale (instead of yellowish with black
apex), 4) size, length of wing and weight considerably larger,
5) bill distinctly longer, and 6) basic color of chest and breast
pure white (instead of slightly tawny tinged), with wider, longi-
tudinal streaks.
The strong morphological differentiation of brunneiceps from
all subspecies of leiicophrys inhabiting the Africa continent from
