March 25, 1966 Avifauna of Tanzania I 19
In Tanzania the habitat of this species is dense thickets of
bushes and small trees forming the ground floor in mountain
cloud-forests. It is however a somewhat tolerant species and may
be found in related but varied habitats. In the extreme western part
of the West Usambara Mts., where extended, dry open cedar
forests replace the dense, tropical cloud-forests, Pogonocichla is
common. Here it inhabits small, scattered islands of bush com-
plexes within the cedar forests. On Mt. Rungwe it was found to be
common in the zone of low, extremely dense bushes, giant heather
and dwarfed trees at the border of the timber line, 2800 m alt.
The species was never found below 1500 m alt. In the Pugu Hills,
a small, hilly relict tropical jungle in the coastal lowlands south of
Dar es Salaam, Gerd and Bernd Heinrich tried in vain to confirm
the record of this species given by Moreau (1951).
The breeding season evidently coincides with the rainy season.
The gonads of all birds collected during November (in different
localities and diflferent years) and of a few specimens out of the
series collected during February 1962 in the West Usambaras were
in breeding condition, but not a single specimen in breeding condi-
tion was collected during the dry season. In the Uluguru Mts.
Bernd Heinrich found two nests, 12 and 17 Dec. 1961. Both were
semi-domed, hidden on the ground of the rain forest between low
vegetation; each contained 2 eggs of bluish-white color with fine
punctation. A nestling, still unable to fly, was found on Mt. Rungwe
4 November 1962.
Among the thrushes of the dense lower floor of the cloud-
forests this one is, although usually well hidden in the thicket,
comparatively least shy and elusive. Occasionally it even appears
in the crowns of tall trees. Like all mountain thrushes it likes to
feed on the columns of driver ants.
The voice of this species most often heard is a melodic two-
syllabic whistle with the second syllable accentuated and about
five tones higher than the first: "fuhit . . . fuhit . . . fuhit , , .".
This two-syllabic call is several times repeated in slower or faster
succession. It seems to be the alarm note which, in rising excite-
ment, is occasionally completed by interludes of rapid sequences of
a sound very similar to the alarm note of the European robin
(Eritlmcus): "tsik tsik tsik, tsik." A singing male was only once
observed high up in the dense crown of a cedar tree, about 30
