24 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 96
Ripley (in Peters 1964, vol. 10. p. 35) gives the range of this
subspecies as "Coastal areas of Kenya and Tanganyika, from
Malindi to the Pugu Hills."
These birds live under the cover and in the shade of dense
masses of bushes, overgrown by lianas in tropical, secondary
lowland jungle. They were often seen on the ground or darting
away closely above the ground, to perch motionless for some time
on low hanging liana-loops or dry twigs.
Cossypha cmomala albigularis (Reichenow).
Material. Eastern Tanzania, Uluguru Mts. at Morogoro,
1500-1700 m alt — 4 i ad in breeding condition, 1 9 ad with ready
egg, 1 c^ juv, Nov. and Dec. 1961; weight: 2 6 ad 26-28 g, i juv 28
g; wing: 4 t^ ad 73-76 (74.5) mm, 9 70 mm, i juv 78 mm.
The range of this subspecies is restricted in this paper to east-
ern Tanzania, in the Uluguru Mts. only.
Comparison of four series (five to seven adult specimens each)
from four difl'erent mountain cloud-forests of Tanzania (Uluguru
Mts., Uzungwa Plateau, Livingstone Mts. and Mt. Rungwe) reveals
that the Uluguru population can be easily distinguished from the
three others by the color of the sides of the neck. In the popula-
tions from all localities in southern Tanzania, a distinct, deep black
band runs from lores and sides of chin along the border of the
white ventral side of the neck all the way down almost to the
breast. However, in all specimens from the type locality, the black
is restricted to the sides of the chin and to the anterior part of the
malar region, being replaced further on by gray. Hence the use
of the subspecific name albigularis (Reichenow) has been applied
here only to the population of the Uluguru Mts. while all the
southern populations have been attributed to other subspecies.
In the Juvenal plumage, the dorsal side of head, lores, nape
and mantle are olive-gray, mottled with tawny, with fringes of
feathers blackish infuscated. The ventral side of head is tawny,
the fringes of feathers blackish, the belly whitish. The tail is
brighter russet than in aduts. The median pair of rectrices are
black," the next pair of rectrices are russet with fringes of inner
and outer webs distally extensively black; all other rectrices have
only outer web distally narrowly black.
These birds are very shy and elusive inhabitants of the densest
