March 25, 1966 Avifauna of Tanzania I 27
The range of this subspecies, according to Mearns (1911), is
"Kenya, Fort Hall and Taveta."
The area west of Same, where the specimens listed above were
collected, is situated in the rain-shadow of the Pare Mountains
and represents the most arid part of northern Tanzania. The vegeta-
tion of this country is poor and scattered, composed of thorny'
bushes and dwarfed trees. The bird fauna contains a number of
species and forms, which are at home in arid regions farther north
and have entered Tanzania only at this place.
This subspecies (based on the type and on the material from
Same) is intermediate in size between the pygmy form minima
Grant of the coastal belt, and the subspecies jacksoni Sharpe from
western Kenya and northern Tanzania. It shares the pale color
of upper and lower parts with minima and differs in this regard
strongly from jacksoni. Farther south, in central and southern Tan-
zania (Iringa-Mbeya), populations have been found which agree
in size with jacksoni but are almost as pale in color as loringi. One
specimen from the southern end of the Livingstone Mts. even
agrees with loringi in size as well as in color. It seems that a satis-
factory subspecific arrangement of this species in Tanzania can
only be based on one character, either on color or on size, as the
use of a combination of both characters would lead to excessive
splintering. If size could be used as a distinctive character, the
central and southern populations could perhaps be associated with
jacksoni. If color is regarded as decisive, then the diagnosis of this
subspecies would have to be adjusted accordingly and we would
have one pale subspecies of varying size, but always larger than
minima, extending from Taveta in Kenya to the Livingstone Mts.
in Tanzania, through the entire middle of the country. We are
inclined to favor the latter alternative and have tentatively listed
below all the pale populations under the name loringi.
Material tentatively included. Southern Tanzania, Iringa,
1700 m alt — 1 i ad, gonads moderately enlarged, 1 ? ad, 30 Sept.
1962; weight: cJ 12.5 g, $ 1 1 g; wing: 6 63 mm, 9 58 mm. Southern
Tanzania, between Chimala and Mbeya, 1400 m alt — 2 s ad, 2 9
ad, 3-15 Jan. 1963; wing: 2 6 59, 63 mm, 2 9 59 mm. Southern
Tanzania, 35 miles south of Njombe, Lugarawa, 2000 m alt — 1 9
ad, eggs laid; weight: 1 1 g; wing: 55 mm.
