30 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 96
Scepomycter winijredae (Moreau).
Material. Uluguru Mts., Morogoro district, 1600 m alt — 2 $
ad, gonads slightly enlarged, 30 Nov. and 1 Dec. 1961; wing: 55,
56 mm.
The range of this species is eastern Tanzania, the Uluguru
Mts. only.
The iris is light brown; the feet, dark gray; the bill, entirely
black or lower mandible horn with only apical half laterally black.
A PALIS THORACIC A (Shaw and Nodder)
Motacilla thoracica Shaw and Nodder, 1811, Nat. Misc., 22, p.
969 — Cape Province, Oliphants River.
The bar-chested warblers are confined in Tanzania to the high
mountains in altitudes between 1600 and 2600 m a.s. Excepting
on Mt. Meru from where they are not as yet recorded, every
isolated mountain range of sufficient altitude seems to harbor the
bar-chested Apalis. Their populations vary geographically to an
amazing degree and in certain limits also individually. The prin-
cipal variants are the color of the mantle and the color of the
underparts between the black chest-bar, and the under tail coverts,
the under parts varying from entirely yellow to entirely white,
the mantle between ash-gray and moss-green. Otherwise, partic-
ularly in their general chromatic pattern, in size, voice, ecology
and behavior, the different populations are very much alike.
In contrast to most other Apalis species they are not tree-crown
dwellers, but almost ground-birds, living in the very lowest plant
thickets. In no place were two distinguishable forms of bar-chested
warblers found side by side on the same mountain range. Summing
up it seems to be beyond doubt that all the different populations
found on the isolated mountain ranges of Tanzania should be
considered as variants of one and the same species, and that conse-
quently Praed and Grant's conception of the group (1955, vol. 2,
p. 396) as two distinct species (green and gray backed) is indeed
untenable. We are following here Praed and Grant's new interpreta-
tion (1963, vol. 2, p. 234) to join the Tanzania forms of bar-
chested warblers with the South African forms as subspecies of
thoracica.
The pattern of geographical variation of this species in Tan-
