34 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 96
Tukuyu district, Mt. Rungwe, 2600 m alt — 3 6 ad, 6 $ ad, all in
breeding condition, 27 Oct.-6 Nov. 1962; weight: 3 i 11-12 (11.7)
g, 6$ 10.5-14 (11.8) g\wing: ?> i ad 49-51 (50.3) mm, 6 9 49-52
(50.5) mm. Southwestern Tanzania, Mt. Mbeya, near Mbeya,
2300 m alt— 1 9 . 27 Dec. 1962; wing: 49 mm.
The range in Tanzania of this subspecies is the Usambara
Mts., Livingstone Mts., Mt. Mbeya, Mt. Rungwe. The range thus
does not include the Uluguru Mts. and the Uzungwa Plateau near
Iringa, where other subspecies occur. Also the population of the
Pare Mts. is excluded.
From the three olive-green backed subspecies occurring in
Tanzania {griseiceps Reichenow and Neumann from Mt. Kiliman-
jaro; uluguru Neumann from Uluguru Mts. and iringae new
subspecies from Uzungwa Plateau), this subspecies is distinguished
by two characters: the gray mantle and the more restricted yellow
color on the abdomen. As specimens with slightly olive-green
tinged mantle occur fairly often, the restriction of the yellow is a
most valuable additional character for identification. In the popula-
tion from the Pare Mts. {pareensis new subspecies) the yellow is
still more restricted, to the very apex of the abdomen and flanks,
and in the population of the Iringa Plateau (youngi Kinnear)
it is entirely absent.
Ecologically all populations of this subspecies were found to
behave exactly as described for uluguru Neumann; they inhabit the
densest ground vegetation on clearings along the edges of moun-
tain forests.
In the Usambara Mts. on 23 Feb. a family was observed with
young birds, which evidently had just left the nest. In the Living-
stone Mts. 12 Oct. a nest was found containing 3 eggs which were
white with red spots. The nest was domed, with lateral entrance
near the top. It was woven from grass and into the grass, between
some low bushes at the side of an elephant path, about Vs meter
above the ground.
The song is monotonous, repeating the same syllable 2-4 times
in moderately fast sequence, with short intermissions after each
sequence: "tjil tjil - tjil tjil tjil - tjil tjil tjil - etc." The alarm call
is rather loud and sharp, almost metallic, uttering the same syllable
in rapid sequence without intermission a number of times "tik tik
tik tik tik." This warning call was heard only once in abundance,
