ENVIRONMENTAL CHEMISTRY
PCBs are organic compounds commerciany produced by chlorination of a
biphenyl (BP) with anhydrous chlorine in the presence of iron filings or
ferric chloride as the catalyst. The purified product is a complex mixture of
chlorobi phenyls containing 18 to 79% chlorine; the precise composition depends
on the conditions under which chlorination occurred (EPA 1980). Ten possible
degrees of chlorination of the biphenyl molecule give rise to ten PCB congener
groups: mono-, di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-, hexa-, hepta-, octa-, nona-, and
decachlorobiphenyl (Figure 1). Within any congener group, a number of
positional isomers (discrete chemical compounds) are possible, depending on
the number of chlorines in the molecule. For example, the tetrachloro- and
pentachlorobiphenyl congener groups are composed of 30 and 46 possible
isomers, respectively. Not all 209 possible isomers are likely to be formed
during the manufacturing process. In general, the most common ones are those
that have either an equal number of chlorine atoms on both rings, or a
difference of only one chlorine atom between rings (MAS 1979). Although
chlorine substitution is favored at the ortho and para positions (Figure 1),
the commercial products are complex mixtures of isomers and congeners with no
apparent positional preference for halogen substitution (Safe 1984).
Recent advances in the identification and quantification of PCB isomers
through mathematical and computer-assisted techniques (Dunn et al. 1984;
Schwartz et al . 1984) will prove useful in data interpretation of metabolic
fate studies. Unfortunately, the results of PCB analyses vary widely among
cooperating laboratories. An interlaboratory comparison of spiked and
unspiked samples of herring oil by 23 participating European and North
American laboratories showed that calculated spike recoveries ranged from 23
to 136% (Musial and Uthe 1983). This was attributed to serious deficiencies
in most steps in the analytical procedures. It seems that until these
deficiencies are corrected, PCB analyses will have credibility from only a few
selected laboratories.
Toxic materials as impurities in PCBs include polychlorinated dibenzo-
furans (PCDF) in some domestic and foreign mixtures at levels of 0.8 to 33
mg/kg. The concentrations of PCDFs in Great Lakes fish were related to the
concentrations of PCBs (Stalling et al . 1983). Sometimes, PCBs used in
electrical capacitors and transformers are converted under the action of heat
or electrical arcing to form PCDFs including 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorobenzofuran
and 2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorobenzofuran. Kanechlor 400 (Table 1), for example,
with an initial PCDF content of 20 mg/kg, yielded fluid with a PCDF content of
