BACKGROUND CONCENTRATIONS
GENERAL
PCB concentrations have been determined for a variety of flora and fauna,
and in certain nonbiological materials (Table 2). These selected data seem to
represent current state-of-the-art analytical procedures for accurate and
precise measurement of PCBs at detection limits of less than 0.01 ppm for most
isomers. Characterization of Aroclor PCB residues in living and nonliving
resources is difficult due to the chemical, physical, and metabolic
transformations between product manufacture and detection in environmental
samples. Schmitt et al . (1985) suggest that total PCBs in samples is a more
reliable measure of environmental contamination than measurements of any
commercial PCB mixtures such as Aroclor PCBs. Also, Brown et al . (1985)
indicated that only a few PCB congeners (i.e., those most toxic) are
appropriate for meaningful interpretation of PCB residues in biota.
There is general agreement that more samples from recent collections have
detectable PCB residues, that absolute concentrations seem to be declining in
some areas of known high PCB contamination, and that lower chlorinated
PCBs--resembling Aroclor 1242--are disappearing. Nevertheless, many fish and
wildlife species, including salmon, trout, turtles, eagles, herons,
fish-eating birds, mink ( Mustela vison ), river otters ( Lutra canadensis ), and
bats, all contain measurable, and in some cases potentially harmful, PCB
residues, especially in adipose (fatty) tissues.
ALGAE AND TERRESTRIAL MACROPHYTES
In the Great Lakes, atmospheric deposition of PCBs is the most
significant source of contamination. More than 90% of atmospheric PCBs are
transported in the vapor phase and deposited by turbulent impaction.
Deposition of PCBs is also associated with particulate matter, as well as
direct partitioning from the vapor phase into the surface organic microlayer
at the air-water interface, and these account for the remaining input (Rohrer
et al. 1982). Once in the water column, the hydrophobic PCBs partition into
the more apolar compartments of the ecosystem or are physically adsorbed on
particulate matter. Transfer of PCBs on microparticulate materials and into
phytoplankton is well documented, as is partitioning from aqueous solution
into algal lipids (Rohrer et al . 1982). PCBs incorporated into phytoplankton
10
