exert inhibitory effects on photosynthesis and cell motility. In addition to
direct toxic effects on algae, accumulated PCBs are readily introduced into
the aquatic food chain (Rohrer et al . 1982).
Selected species of terrestrial plants collected in upstate New York
showed decreases in total PCB concentrations of 42% between 1978 and 1980;
however, levels in hay in 1979 varied between 0.08 and 0.10 ppm dry weight, or
nearly half the Food and Drug Administration (FOA) limit of 0.2 ppm for PCBs
in feeds for livestock (Buckley 1983). Plants grown on soils amended with
lake sediments contaminated with Aroclors 1248, 1254, and 1260, accumulated
PCBs (Sawhney and Hankin 1984). Uptake of Aroclors by beets ( Beta vulgari s ),
turnips ( Brassica rapa ), and beans ( Phaseolus vulgaris ) was in the order
1248>1254>1260, indicating that lower chlorinated isomers (which are more
soluble in water and more volatile) were more abundant in crop plants than
higher chlorinated isomers. Based on these studies, continued monitoring of
plants used as forage for livestock and wildlife appears necessary, especially
in locations where soils are amended with PCB-contaminanted aquatic sediments
or sewage sludges.
INVERTEBRATES
Aquatic invertebrates assume an important role in the cycling of PCBs
within and between ecosystems. Mysid crustaceans from Lake Michigan appear to
have a low assimilation efficiency for PCBs and a high efficiency for fecal
excretion of ingested PCBs; fecal pellets sink rapidly (80-170 m/day) and many
probably reach the sediments intact before the onset of microbial degradation
(Evans et al. 1982). By vertically migrating to the surface at night, mysids
may transport PCBs into the upper regions; the PCBs will continue to recycle
through the Lake Michigan ecosystem if the PCBs are excreted, egested, lost
with molts, or if the mysid is consumed by fish. PCB levels of freshwater
oligochaete worms from the Niagara River in New York State were positively
correlated with sediment PCB levels (Fox et al. 1983). Uptake of PCBs from
the sediment by chironomid ( Chi ronomus plumosus - type) larvae was also
directly related to the concentration of PCBs in the sediment (Larsson 1984).
When larvae metamorphosed to adults, PCB compounds were concentrated and
transferred from the aquatic to the terrestrial environment. In a field study
near a Swedish sewage plant outfall, transport of PCBs by chironomids from
the aquatic to the terrestrial environment was estimated at 20 ug of PCBs
per m^ annually. Terrestrial predators that feed on emerging aquatic insects
whose larval stage inhabits PCB-contaminated sediments may be exposed to PCBs
(Larsson 1984).
FISH
Trace concentrations of the more persistent, more highly chlorinated PCBs
are detected in fish from almost every major river in the United States
29
