were evident; skinless fillets of Great Lakes salmon contained significantly
lower PCB residues than skin-on fillets, with Aroclor 1254 concentrations 3.5
to 4X lower in the skinless fillets (Table 2). Also, a strong correlation was
observed between the concentration of PCBs and DDE in Great Lakes salmon
collected in 1980 (Rohrer et al . 1982), probably due to the chemicals' similar
polarity and molecular size. The chemical interactions of PCBs with other
chlorinated hydrocarbon contaminants, and their biological properties, are
areas requiring additional research effort.
Although diet is a major route of PCB uptake in many species of fish,
there are notable exceptions--even among closely related species. In lake
trout ( Salvelinus namaycush ), for example, most (more than 99%) accumulated
PCBs are from the diet and less than 1% from the medium. However, water is
the major PCB uptake route in coho salmon (Rohrer et al . 1982). In the
windowpane ( Scopthalmus aquosus ) , a marine flounder from Long Island Sound,
New York, stomach contents contained up to 0.45 ppm of PCBs fresh weight,
suggesting a potentially large amount of dietary PCBs available to this
species (Greig et al. 1983).
Elevated levels of PCBs (mostly Aroclor 1254) found in gonads of striped
bass ( Morone saxatilis ), up to 1.4 ppm fresh weight and 2.3 on a lipid basis,
may be associated with poor reproductive success of this species in Nova
Scotia (Ray et al. 1984). This is similar to levels of 2.8 ppm PCBs in lipids
of eggs of rainbow trout ( Salmo gairdneri ) that experienced heavy fry
mortality (Rohrer et al. 1982), and to levels of 0.12 ppm PCBs on a fresh
weight basis in gonads of flounder ( Platichthys flesus ) with inhibited
reproduction (Ray et al. 1984). However, eggs of Atlantic salmon ( Salmo
salar ) with 6.0 ppm PCBs in lipids hatched normally (Ray et al. 1984). It is
clear that considerable interspecies differences exist in the responses of
teleosts to PCB loadings.
Equilibrium levels of stable lipophilic contaminants in fish are directly
proportional to the ambient water concentration of the chemical. Atmospheric
deposition and high sediment contamination have also been implicated as major
sources of PCB contamination (Rohrer et al. 1982). Lowest PCB levels in Great
Lakes salmon were at stations with high flushing and high sedimentation rates
(Rohrer et al . 1982). PCBs were detectable at low concentrations in brook
trout ( Sal vel inus fontinal is ) from remote New England lakes, tending to
confirm that PCBs, and other recorded contaminants, reached the lakes by
atmospheric deposition (Haines 1983).
REPTILES
Water snakes ( Nerodia spp.) collected in Louisana reflected PCB levels
similar to those of PCB residues in their prey species, primarily fresh- and
brackish-water teleosts. PCBs in water snakes were detected in 95% of all fat
samples and 52% of liver and muscle tissues; Aroclor 1260 accounted for most
of the PCBs (Sabourin et al . 1984). Snapping turtles ( Chelydra serpentia ) are
31
