declining harvests of Columbia River otter populations (as opposed to upward
trends elsewhere in Oregon) suggest that PCRs may be a contributory agent
(Henny et al . 1981).
In little brown bats ( Myotis lucifugus ) and big brown bats ( Eptesicus
fuscus ) from Maryland, pups found dead at birth had significantly more Aroclor
1260 than live 1 ittermates; moreover, females with elevated Aroclor 1260
residues tended to produce litters with a greater frequency of stillbirths
(Clark and Lament 1976; Clark and Krynitsky 1978).
PCBs were recently detected in 13 of 26 Florida manatees ( Trichechus
manatus ), an endangered species. All individuals with detectable PCR residues
were recovered from locations in the relatively urbanized areas of
northeastern Florida, primarily in the lower St. Johns River and Brevard
County (O'Shea et al. 1984).
In harbor seals ( Phoca vitulina ), PCB concentrations decrease with
increasing blubber thickness (Van Der Zande and Oe Ruiter 1983). As expected,
lower chlorinated PCBs were eliminated more rapidly from blubber lipids than
higher chlorinated PCBs. For harbor seals in particular, blubber PCB residues
contained a small fraction of lower chlorinated components when compared to
PCB residues in fish that they eat (Van Der Zande and De Ruiter 1983). PCBs
in adult Weddell seals ( Leptonychotes weddelli ) were predominantly penta- and
hexachlorobi phenyls; a si igntly higher amount of lower chlorinated biphenyls
were found in newborns (Hidaka et al. 1983), suggesting that lower chlorinated
biphenyls are more easily transferred from mother to pup through
transplacental action than higher chlorinated biphenyls. Weddell seals
contain low concentrations of PCBs in blubber compared to 10 other pinniped
species and small cetaceans. This probably reflects the low PCB burdens in
their diets attributed, in part, to the heavy ice and snow cover during much
of the year that prevents atmospheric deposition of PCBs from entering the
water and contaminating their diet (Hidaka et al. 1983).
INTEGRATED STUDIES
Biomagnification of PCBs through marine food chains in an Australian
estuary became increasingly important with upper level carnivores such as
gulls and pelicans, but was relatively unimportant at lower trophic levels
(Shaw and Connell 1982). A similar situation was observed in Central Puget
Sound in Washington in 1979 (Malins et al. 1980). PCB body burdens in marine
organisms, especially benthic organisms, were directly related to the log of
PCB concentration in sediments (Shaw and Connell 1982). Furthermore, PCBs
were found in every tissue analyzed from fish and invertebrates in Puget Sound
in 1979 (Malins et al. 1980). High PCB levels, especially in sediments, have
been recorded from highly industral ized areas worldwide (Raldi et al. 1983).
PCBs used in the manufacture of electrical equipment at two facilities
located on the upper Hudson River in Washington County, New York, have
34
