consumed as food on a daily basis (16.4 to 11.2.), and by a safety factor of
100 applied to a dietary level of 0.64 mg PCBs/kg fresh weight of diet. Since
safety factors are usually applied to the no observed effect levels, a
tolerable level of PCBs for mink may be less than 1.0 ug/kg body weight
daily. Other species of mammalian wildlife tested were more resistant to PCBs
than mink, and tolerance levels for livestock (Table 7) may also afford a
reasonable degree of protection for wildlife, except mink.
Sound management of fishery and wildlife resources--including those
resources that are artificially propagated and released--requires
noninterference with desired uses such as health and well being of humans and
other organisms at various trophic levels. Prior to the legislative
restrictions on PCB use, substantial losses to the atmosphere resulted from
evaporation of plasticizers and from improper incineration, directly impacting
occupational workers (EPA 1980), as well as aquatic ecosystems (Ayer 1976).
In recent years, PCB levels have significantly declined in all human food
items, with the possible exception of fish; most samples of fish containing
more than 5.0 mg PCBs/kg fresh weight originated from the Great Lakes area
(Hoeting 1983). In Michigan, all of a sample of 1,057 mothers had measurable
PCBs in their breast milk at an average level of 2.3 mg/kg. Nursing infants
from Michigan mothers might consume 10 to 25X the maximum daily dose i-ate of
1.0 ug PCBs/kg body weight that is currently recommended by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration for human adult intake (Swain 1983). The Michigan
Department of Public Health has since established a Public Health Advisory
related to fish consumption. They recommend that children, pregnant women,
nursing mothers, and women who expect to bear children should not consume fish
from the Great Lakes area (Swain 1983). Canadian PCB tolerance levels in food
items for human health protection are markedly lower than those of the United
States (Table 7). In one case, the current USA health tolerance level of 5.0
mg/kg fresh weight in fish and shellfish presents a distinct hazard to
piscivorous teleosts and to fish-eating birds and mammals. A lowering from
5.0 to 2.0 mg PCBs/kg fresh weight in fish and shellfish has been proposed by
FDA, but the tolerance level has not yet been changed; the delay appears to be
based on economic reasons (Hoeting 1983). In the Great Lakes, for example,
55% of the domestic fish samples collected in 1979-1980 exceeded 2.0 mg
PCBs/kg fresh weight; in 1980-1981, this was 17%; and in 1981-1982, 10% of the
samples exceeded 2 mg/kg, including chinook salmon and their eggs, and lake
trout (Hoeting 1983). In every collection year, measurable PCB residues were
recorded in at least 28% of the Great Lakes fish samples collected (Hoeting
1983). At present, three courses of action appear warranted: continuation of
the Nationwide monitoring program of fish and wildlife for PCBs and other
environmental pollutants (O'Shea and Ludke 1979), additional investigations on
the fate of PCBs under conditions prevailing in the natural environment, and
controlled studies on the toxicological significance of chlorinated
dibenzofurans and other trace impurities found in commercial PCB mixtures and
used PCB containing fluids.
61
