SUMMARY
This account summarizes recent technical literature on the environmental
chemistry of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs); lists PCB background
concentrations in fish, wildlife, and invertebrates; documents their toxic and
sublethal properties; and reviews and provides recommendations for the
protection of sensitive species of aquatic organisms and wildlife.
PCBs, a group of 209 synthetic halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons, have
been used extensively in the electricity generating industry as insulating or
cooling agents in transformers and capacitors. Due to human activities and
the chemical characteristics of the products, PCBs are now distributed
worldwide, with measurable concentrations reported in aquatic organisms and
wildlife from North America, Europe, the United Kingdom, and the Atlantic and
Pacific oceans. PCBs elicit a variety of biologic and toxic effects including
death, birth defects, reproductive failure, liver damage, tumors, and a
wasting syndrome. They are known to bioaccumulate and to biomagnify within
the food chain. As a result of legislation, virtually all uses of PCBs and
their manufacture have been prohibited in the United States since 1979. In
general, the ban has been accompanied by declines in PCB residues in fishery
and wildlife resources. However, the current environmental burden of PCBs in
water, sediments, disposal sites, deployed transformers, and other PCB
containers is now estimated at more than 82 million kg, much of it localized,
and this continues to represent a potential hazard to associated fish and
wildlife.
The toxicological properties of individual PCBs are influenced primarily
by two factors: the partition coefficient based on solubility in
N-octanol /water (Kow); and steric factors, resulting from different patterns
of chlorine substitution. In general, PCB isomers with high Kow values, and
high numbers of substituted chlorines in adjacent positions, constitute the
greatest environmental concern. Unfortunately, basic chemical information is
lacking on many isomers. Also, biological responses to individual isomers or
mixtures vary widely, even among closely related taxonomic species. The issue
is further confounded by the presence of toxic impurities, such as
polychlorinated dibenzofurans, which may have been formed during the PCB
manufacturing process, or result from product usage. At this time, total PCB
residues give a more reliable measure of environmental PCB contamination than
do measurements of any Aroclor or other commercial mixtures. In view of the
demonstrated differential toxicities within the array of PCB congeners, it may
finally become necessary to modify existing standards and criteria based on
m
