A PECULIAR BEAR FROM ALASKA.
BY WILFRED H. OSGOOD.
In view of the scanty knowledge of the small Alaska bear known
as the glacier bear, it seems important to publish a figure and a descrip-
tion of a peculiar specimen (No. 13768) now on exhibition in Field
Museum. This skin (there is no skull) was purchased from the fur
dealers C. F. Periolat and Son by Mr. V. Shaw Kennedy and by him
presented to the Museum. Later it was mounted by Julius Friesser,
one of the Museum's taxidermists, and placed on exhibition. The
skin is practically complete although some slight restoration of parts
was necessary about the nose and one of the feet. It was received
by the fur dealers with a consignment from Alaska, and according to
report was obtained in the region of Mount St. Elias.
Its principal peculiarity is in the fact that it is very much darker
than the majority of specimens heretofore regarded as representing
typical Ursus emmonsi. Gray hairs are scattered throughout the
pelage of the entire animal, but the predominating effect is black.
The black is intense and nearly unmixed with gray on the lower cheeks
and throat and thence down the middle of the breast. The nape and
sides of the neck also are nearly pure glossy black. The outer sides
of the forelegs and the front of the hind legs and the feet are chiefly
black. On the feet, forelegs, and breast the hairs are mostly black
to the roots but elsewhere in the areas which appear black on the
surface, the hairs are grayish at the base. The parts of rather more
gray than black are the lower shoulders, the sides, and the hips, but
practically all the hairs are broadly tipped with black, the total
amount being much greater than in ordinary Ursus emmonsi. A
black line from the nape to the tail is fairly distinct and the tail itself
is mostly pure black. The top of the rostrum is rich ferruginous
slightly mixed with creamy, while sparsely scattered ferruginous or
creamy hairs extend backward to the occipital region and nearly
to the base of the ears, becoming fewer and largely replaced by white
hairs posteriorly. The extreme tip of the nose and parts of the lips
were missing when the skin was received and are shown restored in
the mounted specimen.
