2 FIELD MUSUEM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. X.
It is evident, therefore, that this peculiar Lear is practically in-
termediate in color between the glacier bear (emmonsi) and the pure
black bear (americanus) . By some, no doubt, it would be regarded
as a hybrid and this it may very well be, but with the present limited
knowledge of Ursus emmonsi as a species, any conclusion in regard
to it is somewhat hypothetical. In casting about for an explanation
of the peculiarity of this specimen, other than that of hybridity, one
finds some probability in the idea that Ursus emmonsi may not be a
species nor even a subspecies but only a color phase of Ursus ameri-
canus. It should be emphasized perhaps that such an idea is distinctly
hypothetical and of value only as a possible alternative to be kept in
mind in judging such facts as may be disclosed from time to time in
the future.
Many circumstances in addition to our specimen lend probability
to the view that the glacier bear may be a color phase. Since its
discovery some fifteen years ago, scattering skins more or less similar
to those seen by the original describer have found their way to various
American museums and private collectors. The total number is very
small, perhaps not exceeding fifteen,* in spite of the recent activity
of travelers and collectors on the coast of Alaska. Of this small
number, the majority are imperfect and nearly all are unaccompanied
by skulls or with imperfect ones only. The number of authentic
observations regarding the habits and distribution of this interesting
bear is still smaller and our entire knowledge of it, therefore, is ex-
ceedingly incomplete. All the specimens thus far received are from
a small part of the coast of Alaska, extending approximately from
Lynn Canal to Cape St. Elias. The fact that this is a region of great
glaciers caused the animal to be called the glacier bear and from this
the idea soon prevailed that it lived exclusively in and about the
glaciers and had otherwise remarkable habits. The same region is
inhabited also by black and brown bears, both of which, especially
the former, are frequently found on or near the glaciers. In fact,
from such evidence as can be obtained from the inhabitants of the
region, both white and Indian, there is not the slightest foundation
for the belief that the habits of the so-called glacier bear differ in any
way from those of the ordinary black bear of the coast of Alaska.
So far as can be judged by material now available, there is no
proof that the glacier bear differs from the black in cranial characters,
such fragmentary skulls as have been received being identical in every
* My own observation includes only eight, all in public museums, but
several are known to be in private hands and doubtless a few others have been
preserved.
