J 5S
PREFACE.
Now tliat material is being got together illustrating the economic products of JamiicE, to ba ex'iibited
at the Imperial Institute in London, the fishes naturally demand a share of attention. At the very
outset we are met by the fact that no complete or approximately modern catalogue of Jamaica fishes
exists, much less any detailed and trustworthy account. The present list has therefore been compiled,
and imperfect as it necessarily is, it may suffice to indicate what is now known, and serve as a basis for
future work. It is hoped that by the cooperation of all those in any way interested in our fisheries, from
either the scientific or th? economic point of view, we may at length be in a position to issue a really
satisfactory guide to the subject, in illustration of aa approximately complete collection.
All information or suggestions, and any specimens, will be gladly received. Especially, we need de-
tails about the food-fishes, — how and when they are caught, where they occur or are most abundant, where
they are sold and what price they fetch, their flavour and even the methods of curing or cooking — nothing
will come amiss. Local names for fishes are also of much interest, but alone they unfortunately do not
always lead to identification : hence any information given about a species will be doubly valued if a
specimen of the fish itself accompanies it.
The food of fishes is another matter well worthy of study : it is of great interest to learn what is to
be found in the stomachs of various species — and sometimes rare little fishes are found in pretty good
condition inside the stomachs of common big ones ! Parasites found on fishes also deserve attention, and
should be carefully preserved.
Fishes may be preserved in three parts of alcohol to one of water. Alcohol should be injected into
the mouth and vent, and small incisions made in the belly and thick parts of the body, to allow the fluid
to penetrate the tissues.
The colour of fishes when freshly caught should always be noted down, as they lose much of their
colour in spirit.
T. D. A. C.
