Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 3
tida), lying off the coast of Mexico, about 360 miles nearly due west from
San Bias, or 240 miles southwest from Cape San Lucas, or about 840
miles south of San Diego.
These islands are the most isolated group on the coast and a study of
their fauna and flora and a comparison with the species found on the main-
land, should enable us to arrive at the origin of the island fauna and
flora, and their relationships to the mainland.
The Academy is very anxious to send an expedition to these islands to
make a comprehensive and thorough biological and geological survey of
them. Special attention would be given to the botany, land mollusks,
insects, reptiles, birds and mammals.
The requirements for the expedition would be :
1. A suitable vessel. One of the Eagle boat type would be best. A vessel
such as the Tanager or the Whippoorzvill recently detailed to the
Bishop Museum at Honolulu for expeditions to various Pacific
Islands would be ideal.
As there is no water on any of these islands, the investigators would
not be able to remain on shore longer than a day or two at a time, but
would ordinarily have to return on board each evening. The vessel would
therefore have to keep in daily touch with the shore party or parties.
2. It is estimated that the work on the various islands will require a
total of six to eight weeks.
3. The best time would be from late in April to about June 30.
4. A scientific (civilian) staff of seven to nine men, two of whom, it is
hoped, will be scientific men from the Museo Nacional de Mexico,
who would virtually represent the Mexican Government.
Knowing that it is the policy of our Government to assist public scien-
tific and educational institutions such as the California Academy of
Sciences in projects of this kind, by detailing vessels of the Navy for the
purpose, I wish to ask, on behalf of the Trustees, Council, and members
Academy of Sciences if the United States Navy would be disposed to
assist the Academy in carrying on this proposed investigation by detailing
a vessel suitable for the purpose. The Academy has no vessel suitable
for such an expedition, nor has it funds for chartering a vessel.
It is thought that one, of the boats now, or that may be, at the San
Diego station might be available. It is also believed that such an expedi-
tion would yield results not only of great scientific interest and value but
of interest and value to the Navy, as there would be opportunity to do a
great deal of hydrographic work, such as soundings, ocean temperatures,
ocean currents, and plankton studies.
While the income of the Academy is small, we would expect to meet
such of the expenses of the expedition as can not properly be paid by the
Navy.
Hoping this suggestion may receive your early and favorable consider-
ation, I have the honor to be, Very respectfully yours,
(Signed) Barton Warren Evermann,
Director.
y ^
