146 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
52. Grammatophora merletta Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 16, figures 11, 12, 14
Valve elongate, sides approximately parallel, very slightly
swollen in center; ends expanded, somewhat capitate; border
heavy, and greatly thickened at each end; central area oval
with the long axis parallel to the sides; markings consist of
parallel, horizontal rows of dots, 35 in .01 mm., on each side
of an exceedingly thin median line; the dots are also arranged
in quinqux ; these markings are exceedingly minute and diffi-
cult to resolve, the best optical equipment and monochromatic
green or blue light being required to bring them well into view
in styrax mounts; in girdle view the long bars of silica are
straight throughout most of their length, there being one slight
curve at each end. Length of type .0763 mm. ; breadth
.1010 mm.
Type: No. 1935, paratype No. 1970a, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci.,
from Arroyo Hondo, Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias
Group), Mexico; collected by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925;
Miocene.
This species is abundant in the Maria Madre deposit and
retains its distinctive characters constantly. These consist
chiefly in the capitate ends and the excessively fine beading.
It is undoubtedly closely related to G. macilenfa and G.
maxinm^^ but neither of these have capitate ends. Of all
species of the genus known to us only macilcnta or its relative
subtilissima has such excessively fine markings.
53. Hemidiscus niveus Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 17, figure 1
Valve very large, thin and delicate, broadly cuneiform ; ends
bluntly rounded ; median portion of short margin convex,
space between this and ends slightly concave ; girdle very thick
on one side in zonal view ; disk uniformly marked with small
beads arranged like the milling on a watch case but with ir-
regular separation into radial sectors from the center ; a dis-
tinct ocellus near the center of the short margin and with a
•»Sec Van Heurck, Syn. Diat. Belg., 1881, pis. 53, 53 bis.
