4 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
In due time and coincident with the taking of the necessary
steps for the detail, Secretary Wilbur advised Dr. Evermann
in the letter quoted below that the mine-sweeper, Ortolan,
would be allotted to the work.
Washington, D. C,
March 2, 1925.
Dear Sir:
For the biological and geological survey of the Revillagigedo Islands
the Navy Department will be able to provide a mine sweeper similar to
that used in the surveys of islands south of the Hawaiian group.
The Ortolan has been designated for this duty. The Commanding
Officer of the Ortolan has been directed to report to the Commandant,
Navy Yard, Mare Island, not later than April 16, for such preparation
for the expedition as is deemed necessary.
It will be necessary for the Navy Department to inform the Mexican
Government through the State Department of the intended visit of the
Ortolan to the Revillagigedo Islands ; but before doing this it is requested
that you state definitely the number of scientific men you desire to have
accompany the expedition from Mexico and whether or not you desire
to limit the invitation to men from the Museo Nacional de Mexico. This
information is desired in order that the invitation may be extended to
them at the same time that authority is obtained for sending the expedition.
Dr. Chas. D. Walcott, of the National Museum, has requested a set of
the specimens collected for deposit in the National Museum at Washington,
D. C. Will you please communicate with him on this question and the
question of freight for shipment of specimens collected, as the Navy De-
partment has no authority for payment of freight. However, the Navy
Department could transport specimens from San Francisco to Hampton
Roads via Naval transport, with the idea that the National Museum would
pay the freight from that point and would defray the expenses of packing.
For further details and for arrangements concerning the expedition
you will please communicate with the Commandant, Navy Yard, Mare
Island. The Ortolan may leave on the expedition as soon after April
16th as ready, and should arrive at Navy Yard, Mare Island, for scheduled
overhaul on June 22. Respectfully,
(Signed) Curtis D. Wilbur.
Dr. Barton W. Evermann,
Director of the Museum,
California Academy of Sciences,
San Francisco, Calif.
The actual organization of the exj^edition then proceeded
rapidly under the guidance of Dr. Evermann and the essential
details will be found in the pages following. Before proceed-
ing, it is desired to express the great appreciation of the Acad-
