5 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
3. Herpetology : Mr. Joseph R. Slevin, Assistant Curator,
California Academy of Sciences.
4. Ornithology and Mammalogy: Mr. Frank Tose, Chief
Taxidermist and Mr. John Wright, Assistant Taxidemiist;
California Academy of Sciences. It was recognized that the
collection and preparation of birds, eggs and mammals in the
tropical climate would be one of the most difficult tasks of all.
Therefore, not only were two men selected to do the work, but
a large amount of special equipment was taken to lighten the
labors and insure the making of a representative collection.
Most important of this equipment was the installation on the
after deck of the Ortolan by the Navy Department, of a spe-
cial ice machine for the preservation of specimens which could
not be immediately cared for. This machine was removed
from a Destroyer in San Diego for the purpose, and proved to
be a most valuable addition to the equipment. Numerous
birds were brought back to San Francisco in a frozen condi-
tion, there placed in cold storage, and finally prepared in the
usual manner as opportunity offered.
5. Paleontology: Dr. G. Dallas Hanna, Curator, and Mr.
Eric K. Jordan, Assistant Curator, California Academy of Sci-
ences. In addition to the regular collection of fossils and liv-
ing shells, these two representatives were expected to make
general collections of marine life including invertebrates and
fishes. For the latter purpose two seines, a small beam-trawl,
two dredges, two hoop-nets, hooks, lines, dii>nets and a liberal
supply of nitrogelatin were taken along. Also four "live
tanks" were installed on the deck of the Ortolan and there
provided with facilities for circulating sea water in order that
some fishes might be brought back alive for exhibition in the
Steinhart Aquarium. The taking of a series of still camera
pictures throughout the trip devolved upon one of us and for
the purpose a 4x5 Graflex camera was used almost exclusively.
As a result approximately 400 pictures suitable for reproduc-
tion were obtained.
6. Motion Picture Photography : T^Ir. Raymond Duhem,
of San Francisco. The desirability of securing a series of
