Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION "J
motion pictures was apparent to all. Mr. Duhem was provided
with two cameras and about 10,000 feet of excellent negative
was produced.
Lieutenant Neil B. Musser of the Construction Corps of the
U. S. Navy, then stationed at the Mare Island Yard, took a
very active part in the preparation and outfitting' of the
Ortolan and was so impressed with the plans that he obtained
leave and accompanied the ship during the cruise as a detached
observer. He rendered valuable aid to the collectors in many
ways and secured a large collection of still pictures which he
has presented to the Academy for its records.
The Academy has been engaged for many years in making
explorations in Mexican territory chiefly among the western
islands and has always enjoyed the heartiest cooperation from
the authorities of that country. Whenever possible it has been
the policy to invite scientific representatives from there to
accoanpany its expeditions. Therefore, Dr. Alphonso Herrera,
Director of the National Museum of Mexico was asked to
name two or three men to join the Revillagigedo Islands Expe-
dition and the following gentlemen joined the ship at San
Diego : Professor Francisco Contreras, Assistant Director of
the National Museum of Mexico; Professor Jose M. Gallegos,
Explorer of the Department of Fomento and Agricultura ; and
Sehor Octavio Solis, Director of the Botanical Garden of
Chapultepec, Mexico.
These men grasped the opportunity to secure large collec-
tions of natural history from some of their least known terri-
tory and proved to be- most delightful companions throughout
the work. Through them the expedition was able to enjoy
exceptional privileges at various places.
Before departure Dr. Evermann drew up a set of instruc-
tions which gave some further details of operation and organ-
ization of the expedition. To this was appended some detailed
plans and instructions prepared by the various curators. It
was not expected that every condition to be encountered could
be anticipated in advance and these thoughts were inspired by
a desire to outline in general terms only the plans to be
followed.
