Vol. XV] JORDAN & HERTLEIN— PLIOCENE FAUNA 213
California. The beds are not far removed in age from the
upper Pliocene of Loreto, San Antonio Point, San Jose Island,
and San Marcos Island, in the Gulf of California region, al-
though the exact stratigraphic position of those beds is not
yet known.
By far the greater part of the fauna is composed of Pectens,
which, as a whole, indicate a warm temperate climate at the
time of deposition of these beds.
1. Pecten (Chlamys) dallasi Jordan & Hertlein, new species
Plate XXIII, figures 2, 5, 6, 8
Shell of medium size, moderately thick, in several specimens
with strong lines of restricted growth; valves mildly arched,
and slightly extended posteriorly; hinge line a little over half
the total length of the disk. Right valve ornamented by
about 15 to 19 almost flat-topped radiating ribs, separated by
slightly rounded interspaces almost as wide as the ribs, the
summit of the ribs smooth, the sides and interspaces sculp-
tured by fine, sharp, subecjual radiating ridges and grooves,
the shoulder of each rib on either side marked by a deeper
groove; anterior dorsal and posterior dorsal areas of disk
smooth; ears unequal, the anterior with a well developed bys-
sal notch and sculpture consisting of about six radiating rib-
lets crossed by concentric lines of growth; posterior ear ob-
liquely truncated behind, and ornamented by four or five radi-
ating riblets between which the interspaces bear fine incised
radiating lines. Left valve sculptured much as right ; anterior
dorsal and posterior dorsal margins of disk sloping more
abruptly to base of ears than on right valve : anterior ear in-
dented by a rounded byssal notch and ornamented by five
radiating riblets between which are minute sharp radiating
grooves; posterior ear obliquely truncated and sculptured
much as anterior, the radiating riblets. however, much more
subdued and less prominent. Height 42 mm. ; length 43 mm. ;
diameter 13 mm.; apical angle approximately 105°.
Type: No. 1862, paratypes Nos. 2072, 2073, 2074, 2075,
2076, and 2077, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 795 (C.A.S.
coll.), Canons one or two miles from San Antonio Point, east
coast of Lower California; upper Pliocene; Fred Baker col-
