214 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
lector; also No. 2078, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 937
(C.A.S. coll.), Arroyo Hondo, Maria Madre Island, Mexico;
upper Pliocene ; G. Dallas Hanna and Eric K. Jordan
collectors.
Pecten dallasi is easily recognized by the peculiar minor
radiating sculpture superimposed on the major ribs and inter-
spaces. The number of ribs varies considerably, as does the
obliquity of the valves.
This species is abundant in the upper Pliocene of the Gulf
of California region, and, as we have specimens from there
in better state of preservation than those from Maria Madre
Island, the type is selected out of a lot from Lower California.
The collection from Maria Madre contains three specimens of
the species. The writers wish to express their obligation to
Dr. Fred Baker, who collected the type specimen.
The si^ecies is named in honor of Dr. G. Dallas Hanna,
whose work on the Pliocene of Imperial County, California,
and on Lower California has added to our knowledge of the
region.
2. Pecten (Plagioctenium) circularis Sowerby
Plate XXIII, figure 9
A specimen of this species, from the Pliocene of Maria
Madre Island, is illustrated to show the characteristic narrow
ribs with broad interspaces, in contrast with the ribbing of
P. abictis.
3. Pecten (Plagioctenium) abietis Jordan & Hertlein,
new species
Plate XXIII, figures 1, 3, 7
Shell averaging about 45 millimeters in altitude, about as
long as high, fairly thick and solid, somewhat produced pos-
teriorly. Right valve ornamented by 19 — 21 subtriangular
ribs, in adults becoming flattened toward the margin, separated
by sharp, narrow-bottomed interspaces, the sides of the ribs
and interspaces decorated by sharp, close-set fringing lamellae;
hinge line about two-thirds the length of disk ; ears about equal
in length, rather large, the anterior ear ornamented by about
four rather faint radial ribs crossed by concentric lines of
growth, the byssal notch well defined; posterior ear faintly
