Vol. XV] JORDAN & HERTLEIN— PLIOCENE FAUNA 215
radially and concentrically sculptured. Left valve with the
ribs more pronouncedly triangular in cross-section, the sides
densely fringed with lamellse; ears similar to those of right
valve, but the byssal notch on anterior ear less developed ;
hinge strong; cardinal crura well developed. Altitude 45 mm. ;
longitude 46 mm. ; diameter of left valve about 32 mm. ; apical
angle about 100°.
Type: Left valve. No. 2079, paratypes Nos. 2080, 2081,
2082, and 2083, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 937 (C.A.S.
coll.), Arroyo Hondo, Maria Madre Island, Mexico; upper
Pliocene ; Hanna & Jordan, collectors.
This species is closely related to P. circularis, but is dis-
tinguisliable by the character of the ribbing. The ribs of P.
ahietis are wide at the base, and are triangular or subtriangu-
lar in cross-section. The interspaces are very narrow, and the
sides of the ribs and interspaces are covered by a dense fringe
of concentric lamell?e. The ribs of P. circularis are distinctly
rounder and much narrower in cross section, and the inter-
spaces are much wider.
Examination of a large series of specimens from Maria
Madre Island, where this species is very abundant, and also
from various localities in the upper Pliocene of the Gulf of
California region, shows the angularity of the ribs to be a
constant characteristic. The writers realize that intergradation
with P. circularis proper may ultimately be proved, but as yet
the present species is known only from the subtropical
Pliocene.
The name (abictis, — of the fir) refers to the dense fringes
of lamellse, like needles of a conifer.
4. Placuanomia cumingii Broderip
Plate XXIII, figure 4
Placuauouiia cumitigii Broderip, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1832, p.
29. — Reeve, Conch. Icon., Vol. 11, 1859, Placuanomia, pi. 1,
figs. 3a, 3b.
This species has never previously been figured in any gen-
erally accessible publication. It has not heretofore been re-
ported from the Pliocene.
P. plicata Tuomey & Holmes, from the Pliocene of South
Carolina, is hardly distinguishable from this species.
