g CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Skr.
Instructions for Guidance on the Expedition
San Francisco, California,
April 11, 1925.
Dr. G. Dallas Hanna,
California Academy of Sciences,
San Francisco, California.
Dear Sir:
Referring to the proposed expedition of the California Academy of
Sciences to the Revillagigedo Islands, the following instructions are issued
for your information and guidance:
1. Purpose of the Expedition: As comprehensive and thorough bio-
logical and geological survey of the islands as time and equip-i
ment permit.
2. Vessel: At the request of the California Academy of Sciences the
Secretary of the Navy has detailed the U. S. S. mine-sweeper
Ortolan, Lieutenant M. M. Nelson commanding, to the Academy
for use on the expedition.
3. Personnel of scientific staff: [See above.]
4. Itinerary:
a. The Ortolan will depart from Alare Island Navy Yard on April
15. The first stop will be at San Diego where certain supplies for
the ship will be taken aboard. At that time a supply of bottles
for water and plankton samples desired by the Scripps Institution
will be received. From San Diego the expedition will proceed to
Clarion Island, stopping en route at Guadalupe Island long enough
to make a census of the elephant seal herd which is found there,
and to do such collecting as at the time may seem desirable. If
tide conditions are favorable a search should be made for fur
seals, a few of which may still occur there.
The survey of the Revillagigedos will begin with Clarion Island
unless, perchance. Captain Nelson should, for ship's reasons,
think best to begin elsewhere. The order in which the different
islands will be visited will be determined by the Commanding
Officer after consultation with you. The time that will be
devoted to the work on and about each island and the sequence
will be determined by you, always, of course, after conference
with the Commanding Officer. It is of vital importance that as
much time as possible be devoted to these islands that the survey
may be final in its results so far as the Academy is concerned.
It is expected that, during the time the expedition remains at
these islands, the Commanding Officer will take advantage of the
opportunity to do hydrographic work of importance to the Navy
and to science. In this work you will, of course, render any
assistance desired.
