Vol. XV] FOX— DIGGER ii''ASPS 221
first and second segments of flagellum below ; lower part of frons ; incon-
spicuous spot in front of anterior ocellus ; broad anterior orbits reach-
ing line of anterior ocellus; broad posterior orbits, gradually narrowing
to a point at vertex ; narrow irregular band on posterior margin and de-
flexed sides of prothorax, the latter enclosing a large black spot on and
before tubercles ; tegulae almost entirely ; lateral margin on scutum above
the tegulse, sometimes produced anteriorly ; two small medial approxi-
mated spots on posterior border of scutum (wanting in six specimens) ;
fascia on border of scutellum; sides of median segment almost entirely;
metapleurae ; irregular broad stripe on mesopleurae, extending from tegu--
lae to base of intermediate coxae, and anterior spots, variable in size ;
broad continuous fascise on tergites 1-6, reaching the posterior margin
on 5-6 and on 1-4 separated only by extremely narrow black line; fasciae
on 1-5 bi-emarginate, medially notched and sinuate laterally on anterior
border, sixth almost triangular with medial notch on anterior border,
apical half of seventh tergite as in fig. 2; first sternite entirely except
lateral black spots ; second and third with broad continuous fasciae, un-
dulate and narrowed more or less medially on the anterior border ; fourth
with large square lateral spots ; apex of sixth and seventh ; coxae and
trochanters in part ; femora except a more or less broad black stripe
above, not reaching the apex ; tibiae except inconspicuous narrow stripe
below (wanting in four specimens), and tarsi entirely. Fasciae on ter-
gites soiled white over black, other markings more or less yellow (in
places reddened by cyanide). Segments 3-12 of flagellum fusco-piceous,
lighter below. Described from twelve males.
Type: Male, No. 1829, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., collected May
30, 1925, at Magdalena Bay, Lower California. Paratypes,
same data in the collections of the Academy, U. S. National
Musetmi, Washington, D. C, and of the author.
5. Microbembex monodonta Say
Cape San Lucas, Lower California, May 28, 1925. One
male.
