224 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
This Expedition visited more of the islands of the Gulf than
had been visited by any previous scientific expedition. As
some of the visits were rather hurried, and as most of them
could not be timed to correspond with the lowest tides, the
collections are somewhat irregular in quality and character.
The tidal movement of the southern part of the Gulf of Cali-
fornia is moderate in degree, while in the northern part the
variation between lowest low tide and highest high tide ex-
ceeds thirty-one feet in certain seasons. At such times the
water rushes through the mouth of the Colorado River in a
great bore which is dangerous to small boats for some distance
up. As a result of this greater tidal movement, collections
made in the more northern localities were rather more repre-
sentative than those made farther south, although the fauna
is not so varied. Certain islands were visited only at the time
of high tide so that only worn and weathered beach shells
were taken at these points.
On the whole, dredging was unsatisfactory, although the
total result of this part of the work is considerable. No prep-
aration was made for deep dredging and the launch Silver
Gate could not be slowed down sufficiently to yield satisfactory
results in shallow water. Therefore, practically all dredging
was done from rowboats or by carrying the dredge to a dis-
tance from the larger vessel at anchor and hauling in. Just
at the time the Expedition was in the field most of the bottom
in shallow water was closely covered by a broad-leaved ma-
rine alga commonly known as "sea lettuce." The growth was
sufficiently heavy to prevent the dredge reaching the sea bot-
tom satisfactorily and it filled the dredge completely in a very
short haul. Only on the rare occasions when it was possible
to locate patches of clear bottom with the water telescope was
dredging really satisfactory. Unfortunately, it was not until
just about the time the Expedition left the Gulf that this
marine growth matured and began breaking away from the
sea and bay bottoms.
The writer's sincere acknowledgments are due to Dr.
Barton Warren Evermann, Director of the California Acad-
emy of Sciences, who placed him in charge of the mollusk
collecting of the Expedition; to all the members of the Expe-
dition for many courtesies and for much help in collecting
