Vol. XV] BAKER— MOLLUSC A 225
whenever their own work could be so arranged as to make it
possible ; and in very large measure to Dr. G. Dallas Hanna,
who not only photographed the shells here figured, but also
aided in planning and formulating this report,
Triphora (Deshayes) Blainville, 1828
Five species have been reported from the Gulf of California
and from Cape St. Lucas, under the generic name Triphoris,
three originally described by C. B. Adams,^ alternatus, incon-
spicuus and infrequens, and two by Bartsch,* excolpus and
stearnsi. Of these, Triphoris infrequens is a dextral shell,
therefore not to be considered in this group. None of the re-
maining four species was taken by the Expedition. The eight
species and two subspecies described in this paper seem to be
new.
1. Triphora hannai Fred Baker, new species
Plate 24, figure 1
Shell sinistral, elongate-conic, large and robust for the
genus, shining, everywhere marked by minute growth lines
and spiral strise; tubercles and spiral keels, except the basal
keels, light, grayish-brown, the intervening channels, sutures,
basal keels and columellar region dark chocolate-brown; first
one or two nuclear whorls decollated, the next one and a half
globose, with very fine retractive axial threads only, followed
by two with two rather widely separated spiral cords rendered
tuberculate by the crossing of numerous fine, retractive axial
threads, of which there are about twenty-six on the last nu-
clear whorl ; transition to postnuclear whorl not well-defined,
the two spiral cords continuing and the retractive axial threads
being replaced irregularly by protractive series of tubercles, of
which there are about fourteen on the first postnuclear whorl,
about twenty-two on the sixth, and about twenty-four on the
penultimate ; postnuclear whorls eleven and three-quarters, the
first four with two very distinct spiral keels separated by a
shallow channel nearly twice as wide as the deeply channeled
sutures ; median spiral keel appearing on the fifth whorl, closer
' Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist.. Vol. 5, pp. 382, 383.
« Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 33, pp. 254-255, pi. 16, figures 2 and 8.
