226 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4x11 Skk.
to the posterior than the anterior keel, and enlarging regularly
to fully the size of the anterior keel on the last two or three
turns ; posterior keel larger than the others, the tubercles being
elongate axially into distinct ovals on all but the first three or
four postnuclear whorls and becoming twice as long as broad
on the last half turn; tubercles of the posterior and middle
keels largely subtruncate posteriorly, those of the anterior and
peripheral keels mostly truncate ; spiral keels much heavier
than the axial riblets, their crossing producing rather excep-
tionally well-defined, rectangular pits which are generally
spirally elongate; tubercles markedly clean-cut and defined;
anterior channels between the keels about equal to the sutures
in width and about double the width of the posterior channels ;
tw^o very distinct tuberculate keels beginning on the last half
turn, one on each side of the anterior keel ; peripheral keel
strongly tuberculate, the tubercles sharply truncate posteriorly,
nearly equaling the anterior keel in size, separated from it by
a channel about two-thirds as wide as the one preceding it.
and continuing in the preceding sutures as a minute tubercu-
late cord faintly discernible for eight or nine turns ; base well-
rounded, subcarinate on the last half turn ; basal keels two, the
first lying entirely on the base, irregularly tuberculate, the
tubercles not well-defined, the second entirely on the columel-
lar region, broader than the first, tending to become double,
roughened, but nowhere distinctly tuberculate ; aperture sub-
rhomboidal, with a well-rounded posterior notch; outer lip
moderately sharp, slightly reflexed and effuse at its junction
with the basal lip. conforming to the external sculpture, and
showing the alternating colors of the spiral keels and channels
by transmitted light; anterior canal nearly closed, nearly ver-
tical; columella nearly straight, slightly revolute below, with
a heavy, dark brown callus extending over the parietal wall.
Length. 8.17 mm. ; diameter. 2.43 mm.
Type: No. 21v'?5, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from San Francisco
Island, Gulf of California, in shallow water; a well preserved
paratype, No. 2136, with two-and-a-half nuclear whorls and
nine-and-a-half postnuclear whorls, was taken at San Marcos
Island, Gulf of California. An immature and weathered speci-
men from San Francisquito Bay, Lower California, probably
belongs here.
