228 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
about 16 on the first postnuclear whorl to about 20 on the
penultimate turn ; sutures very broadly channeled, crossed very
conspicuously by the axial riblets, which decrease in size below
the peripheral keel and terminate abruptly on the last basal
keel; peripheral keel about two-thirds the width of, and less
distinctly tuberculate than, the anterior keel, separated from it
by a channel nearly equal to the one preceding it, and show-
ing for two turns in the preceding sutures as a narrow band
adnate to the posterior keel ; aperture subrhomboidal, the outer
and basal lips confomiing to the external sculpture, with a
well-rounded posterior canal and a broad anterior canal which
is rather more nearly vertical than transverse; base shortly
rounded, with two strong basal keels beginning rather close
together at the callus of the parietal wall, but finally separated
from each other and from the peripheral keel by rather broad,
deep channels; posterior basal keel distinctly tuberculate, the
anterior nearly smooth; columella strong, sharply revolute.
Length, 2.77 mm.; diameter, 1.20 mm.
Type: No. 2137, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Amortajada
Bay, San Jose Island, Gulf of California, in about two
fathoms ; a paratype. No. 2138, was taken in another dredge
haul in the same general locality. In this specimen the sub-
cuspidation of the tubercles is even more marked than in the
type.
This species differs from all others described from this coast
in the small, discrete, subcuspidate tubercles with proportion-
ately wide interspaces. It is somewhat similar in shape to
Triphora galapagensis (Bartsch), but differs from that species
in most other respects.
The species is named for Dr. Barton Warren Evermann.
Director of the California Academy of Sciences.
3. Triphora vanduzeei Fred Baker, new species
Plate 24, figure 8
Shell sinistral, elongate-conic above, becoming cylindrical
below, faded, dull yellowish-white, showing a slight tendency
to a reddish-brown color on the posterior keels and base ; nu-
clear whorls decollated ; postnuclear whorls eight and a half,
the first four with two tuberculate spiral keels widely separated
