Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION \\
Detailed Departmental Directions
For the Botanist, Mr. H. L. Mason
Gjllect mosses, hepatics, fungi, and algfe according to directions from
Dr. W. A. Setchell. If possible make six or more sets of each.
In Phanerogams and vascular Cryptogams collect six sets or more
when possible. Number each collection, keep record of date, place of
collection, environmental conditions and notes of general appearances,
color of flowers or any other noticeable peculiarities, so as to give a good
general description in your report whereby the plant could be recognized
in the field by an intelligent observer.
Collect seeds for planting as well as for specimens.
Dr. Rose of the National Aluseum wants good series of live specimens
of every kind of cactus.
(Signed) Alice Eastwood
Curator.
For the Entomologist, Hartford H. Keifer
As representative of the Department of Entomology it will be your
duty first to collect insects of all orders, then the spiders, scorpions and
myriopods, when that can be done without prejudice to the work on the
insects. In collecting insects it is of first importance to secure as many
species as possible and second, to take series. In collecting, watch for the
varying ecological conditions and endeavor to cover all as fully as cir-
cumstances will permit. Where there are trees or bushes use the um-
brella; if there be grass or suitable bushes use the sweep-net; where
there are stones turn them or enough of them to secure their peculiar
fauna ; dead cactus stems can be turned or opened and some interesting
forms will be found there. Many insects hide among rubbish at the base
of trees or under bushes and cactus and can be raked out; loose stones
about the roots of trees and cacti yield some good beetles. If there are
flowers use the butterfly-net for insects frequenting them. Some good
things are to be found under kelp and other drift along the sea shore,
and sandy areas will yield interesting Diptera, Coleoptera and Hymenop-
tera, and possibly some Hemiptera. Should there be freshwater pools
or streams look for aquatic insects of all orders. Dragonflies and grass-
hoppers will usually be taken with the butterfly-net. Dead wood can be
cut for boring beetles. At night, work with the lantern will secure in-'
sects of many orders, and if practicable the trap-lantern and sugaring
might be tried for moths. Your own judgment will tell you which
method of collecting will be most productive in each locality. Notes on
the food habits of the species can be placed in the boxes with the speci-
mens or attached to their pins. Note in day-book or journal where work
was done each day and any other items of interest regarding any species
of insect taken. Be careful that correct locality, and especially date, be
placed with each catch of specimens.
In preparing material for shipment pin up all moths except the
micros which may be placed in pill-boxes ; butterflies should be papered.
