\'oL. XV] BAKER— -MOLLUSC A
231
external sculpture ; posterior canal well marked, anterior canal
entirely closed, nearly vertical; columella stout, revolute,
heavily calloused, the callus extending over the parietal wall.
Length, 8.00 mm. ; diameter, 2.13 mm.
Type: No. 2141, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from San Evaristo
Bay, Lower California; paratype, No. 2142, dredged in Coyote
Bay, Concepcion Bay, Lower California. Four much weathered
and worn specimens taken at Isthmus Bay, Espiritu Santo
Island, Gulf of California, and a young specimen dredged in
Amortajada Bay, San Jose Island, Gulf of California, seem to
be the same but are too worn for positive identification.
The distribution of color in this species is somewhat like
that on Triphora alteniata (C. B. Adams), but it is almost
double in size in all dimensions, the axial ribs are strongly
protractive, the base is proportionately shorter and the general
appearance of the shell is different.
The species is named for Professor Francisco Contreras,
Director of the National Museum of Natural History of the
City of Mexico, who was detailed by the Mexican Govern-
ment to accompany the Academy Expedition of 1921.
5. Triphora slevini Fred. Baker, new species
Plate 24, figure 5
Shell sinistral, very small, very broadly elongate-conic, every-
where marked by minute growth lines and spiral striae, dark
brown and shining throughout except the first nuclear whorl
which is whitish, the posterior and peripheral spiral keels being
slightly darker than the others ; nuclear whorls five, the first
nearly smooth, the others with two delicate convex cords close
together on the most prominent portion of the whorls, crossed
by nearly vertical, discrete, radial threads of which there are
about thirty-two on the fourth whorl, producing minute tuber-
cles at the points of crossing and enclosing shallow, squarish
pits; postnuclear whorls five and a half: change from nuclear
to postnuclear whorls gradual, beginning with the enlarging of
occasional axial threads and tubercles and the separation of
the spiral cords so that the first postnuclear whorl comes to
be marked by two distinct, coarsely tuberculate spiral keels ;
beginning on the third postnuclear whorl, a median spiral keel
