232 CAl.IFORXIA ACADEMY OF SCIEXCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
appears about in the middle of the channel, enlarging gradu-
ally to about the size of the other keels on the last two turns
only; tubercles on all postnuclear whorls joined by axial rib-
lets and spiral keels of about equal size, the former very pro-
tractive, these enclosing series of irregular shallow pits which
are indefinitely marked but tend to be more squarish than
round ; axial ribs about fourteen on the second postnuclear
turn and about twenty-two on the last ; periphery subcarinated
by the anterior keel ; peripheral keel lying on the basal edge,
tuberculate, about half the width of the preceding one, the in-
tervening channel being crossed by the radial riblets ; base
nearly flat or slightly concave, marked by distinct growth lines
and fine spiral threads which become obsolete on the colu-
mellar region ; distinct basal keels wanting ; sutures channeled,
but broken by the prominent axial riblets ; aperture broadly
and irregularly subovate, the outer and basal lips conforming
to the external sculpture ; anterior canal short ; columella short,
stout, slightly revolute and calloused, nearly vertical. Length,
2.14 mm.; diameter, .955 mm.
Type: No. 2143, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., dredged in shallow
water at Northeast Anchorage, Monserrate Island, Gulf of
California.
This species is shaped somewhat like Triphora chathamensis
(Bartsch), but varies in color, in having a much wider apical
angle, in a slight truncation of the tubercles posteriorly, in its
smaller size, and in the later and more limited development of
the middle spiral keel.
The species is named for Mr. Joseph R. Slevin, Assistant
Curator of Herpetology of the California Academy of
Sciences, who was in charge of the Expedition of 1921.
6. Triphora oweni Fred Baker, new^ species
Plate 24, figure 10
Shell sinistral, of medium size, rudely spindle-shaped, rather
stout, everywhere marked by close growth lines, especially on
the base, slightly shining, the first whorl and the posterior
spiral keels white, median, anterior, peripheral and basal keels
very light brown ; nuclear whorls decollated : remaining post-
nuclear whorls eight and a half, separated by moderately chan-
