Vol. XV] BAKER— MOLLUSCA 233
neled sutures; first five postnuclear whorls marked by two tu-
berculate spiral keels of approximately the same size, rather
narrowly spaced, with an intercalated median keel beginning
feebly on the sixth turn and increasing in size v^ery gradually
until it equals the anterior keel on the last half turn, partly
because that keel narrows slightly on the last two turns; all
tubercles rather large, with broad bases, those on the median
keel being subtruncate posteriorly on the lower turns ; axial
ribs protractive, about fourteen on the first whorl, sixteen on
the fifth and twenty on the penultimate ; periphery of the last
whorl marked by a narrow, tuberculate keel about half as wide
as the one preceding it ; base rather long, rounded, marked by
two rather narrow, indefinitely tuberculate spiral keels begin-
ning together on the edge of the parietal callus, but separating
until they are about equally separated from the peripheral keel
and from each other; outer and basal lips broken; aperture
probably suboval ; anterior canal large, nearly vertical ; colu-
mella stout, revolute, covered by a heavy callus which extends
over the parietal wall. Length, 4.55 mm. ; diameter, 1.69 mm.
Type: No. 2144, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., dredged in Puerto
Escondido, LrOwer California, in three to six fathoms.
The general color pattern of this species resembles that of
Triphora inconspiciia hicolor (Bartsch) but the shell seems to
differ from that species and from all others described from this
coast. It is a much stouter shell than T. inconspicua, with
coarser tubercles and fewer axial ribs, these being more pro-
tractive than is shown in Bartsch's figure. The space between
the initial keels is much less and there are two basal keels in-
stead of three.
The species is named for Mr. Virgil Owen, Ornithologist
and Mammalogist of the Expedition of 1921.
7. Triphora johnstoni Fred Baker, new species
Plate 24, figures 3, 4
Shell sinistral, rather stout, elongate-conic, shining, every-
where marked by minute growth lines and spiral striae, light
brown; type with one nuclear and ten and a half postnuclear
whorls, about two-fifths of a turn being broken from the aper-
ture; change from nuclear to postnuclear whorls very abrupt.
