234 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
the two spiral cords being replaced by two tuberculate spiral
keels of about equal size at first, the tubercles arranged in pro-
tractive series, the keels rapidly diverging until the channel
between them is double the wadtli of the channeled sutures,
with a very indistinct intercalated median keel dividing from
the posterior keel on the sixth or seventh turn, continuing close
to it throughout its course, enlarging gradually, but always
narrow and showing a tendency to doubling on the last turn
and to an elongation of the tubercles spirally; tubercles of the
posterior keel becoming larger than those of the anterior after
the third postnuclear whorl and finally twice as large ; all tuber-
cles united spirally by rather strong keels and by less distinct
axial riblets, these enclosing irregular, but generally roundish
pits; first postnuclear whorl with about fourteen, sixth with
about sixteen and penultimate with about twenty-two axial
ribs, the tubercles quite generally subtruncate posteriorly ; peri-
pheral keel narrow, about as wide as the median one, w^ith in-
distinct tubercles elongated spirally; base very slightly con-
cave, with no basal keels on the type; aperture badly fractured
but probably subquadrate ; anterior canal very transverse ; colu-
mella very stout, nearly vertical, slightly revolute below.
An immature paratype shows the following characters of
the nucleus :
First nuclear whorl papillaeform, smooth, followed by four-
and-a-half globose, double-carinated w^iorls, the carinse close
together on the most prominent part of the whorls, slopingly
shouldered posteriorly, more abruptly anteriorly, the posterior
carina slightly heavier and nearer the middle of the whorl ;
whorls separated by rather deep, channeled sutures, the chan-
nels betW'Cen the carinae being about equal in width to the
sutures; whorls everywhere crossed by very fine, sinuous,
nearly vertical axial threads, of w^hich about twenty-eight ap-
pear on the last nuclear whorl ; carinae rendered tubercular by
the crossing of the axial threads which enclose rather deep,
squarish pits. Other partly grown paratypes show under high
power two very narrow, slightly squamose basal keels.
Length of type, 4.81 mm. ; diameter, 2.00 mm. Length of im-
mature paratype, 2.36 mm.; diameter, L19 mm.
Type: No. 2145, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., and three immature
paratyes, Nos. 2146, 2147, and 2148, dredged in Amortajada
