Vol. X\'] BAKER— MOLLUSCA 235
Bay, San Jose Island, Gulf of California. A worn specimen
taken at Isthmus Bay, Espiritu Santo Island, Gulf of Cali-
fornia, seems to be the same.
This species is shaped like Tripliora catalinensis (Bartsch),
but differs from that species in the markedly protractive ar-
rangement of the tubercles, in coloration, and especially in the
wider spaces between the spiral keels, this feature being very
marked in the paratypes and being more pronounced than in
any species described from the coast.
The species is named for Mr. I. M. Johnston, Botanist of
the Expedition of 1921.
8. Triphora johnstoni pazensis Fred Baker, new subspecies
Plate 24, figure 6
Type: No. 2149, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., dredged near the
main wharf at La Paz, Lower California, in about four fath-
oms. It has remaining two-and-a-half nuclear and six-and-a-
half postnuclear whorls. It accentuates the broad channels
between the spiral keels as in the type, but varies in the earlier
incidence of the median keel and its more rapid enlargement,
and in having a small basal keel near the peripheral keel.
Length, 2.75 mm.; diameter, 1.40 mm.
9. Triphora chamberlini Fred Baker, new species
Plate 24, figure 2
Shell sinistral, large, elongate-conic, shining, everywhere
marked by minute growth lines and spiral stride, dark wax-
yellow, variegated irregularly with white; nuclear whorls de-
collated ; remaining postnuclear whorls ten-and-a-lialf, the
first four-and-a-half marked by two tubercular spiral keels only
moderately separated, the tubercles large, low. with broad
bases; a narrow, tuberculate keel beginning on the fifth whorl.
se])arating from the posterior keel and enlarging very slowly,
only equals the anterior keel on the last half turn; axial riblets
and spiral keels low and ill-defined, enclosing irregular pits
which are generally squarish on the lower turns; axial ribs
definitely protractive. about sixteen on the third remaining
whorl and about twenty on the penultimate; tubercles of the
