236 CALIFORXIA ACADEMY OF SCIEXCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
anterior and posterior keels not varying- greatly in size until
the last whorl where those of the posterior keel are nearly
double the size of those of the anterior; sutures rather broad,
with a very narrow channel at the bottom which is nowhere
distinctly crossed by the axial riblets ; tubercles on the summits
of the whorls subtruncate, fonning- a narrow, rounded shoul-
der most marked on the lower whorls ; peripheral keel overlaid
at first by the parietal callus but soon enlarging to equal the
anterior keel, its tubercles rather distinctly truncate posteriorly,
separated from the preceding keel by a channel almost as wide
as the one preceding it, and persisting for several turns in the
sutures as a very thin band adnate to the posterior keel; rib-
lets from the peripheral keel dipping into, but not crossing the
next basal channel ; base moderately rounded, with two nearly
smooth, broad, rounded keels beginning at the edge of the
parietal callus, nearly parallel throughout, separated by a chan-
nel narrower than the keels themselves ; columella stout, revo-
lute, covered by a very heavy callus extending over the parie-
tal wall and a small portion of the peripheral keel ; aperture ?
fractured, anterior canal large, rather vertical than trans-
verse. Length, 7.45 mm. ; diameter, 2.40 mm.
Type: No. 2150, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., dredged at the
Northeast Anchorage, Monserrate Island, Gulf of California,
in about two fathoms ; no other specimens found.
The species more closely resembles Triphora panamensis
(Bartsch) than any other described from this coast, but it is
a more robust shell, wider in proportion to its length and with
proportionately wider whorls. The lighter color and irregu-
lar variegation also distinguish it from that species.
The species is named for Mr. Joseph C. Chamberlin, who
accompanied the Expedition of 1921 as Assistant in
Entomology.
10. Triphora escondidensis Fred Baker, new species
Plate 24, figure 11
Shell sinistral, rather slender, elongate-conic, everywhere
marked by minute growth lines, shining, very light brown ;
nuclear whorls decollated : remaining ix)stnuclear whorls nine,
