Vol. XV] BAKER— MOLLUSCA 237
separated by moderately channeled sutures, the first four
marked by two tuberculate keels divided by a rather broad
channel ; a very slender tuberculate, median keel appearing on
the fifth turn, lying slightly closer to the posterior than the
anterior keel, and attaining the size of the anterior keel on the
eighth and succeeding turns; tubercles of the posterior keel
slightly larger than those of the other keels after the third
turn; axial ribs slightly protractive, the riblets crossing the
sutures indistinctly and continuing as far as the first basal
keel; axial riblets and spiral keels enclosing moderate pits
which are generally squarish; second whorl with about sixteen
axial ribs, penultimate with about twenty- four; peripheral
keel well developed, tuberculate, about three-fourths as large
as the one preceding it; base moderately elongate, marked
by two tuberculate basal keels nearly equaling the peripheral
one; peripheral and basal keels commencing close together
near the parietal callus, separating rather rapidly at first,
then slowly to the end of the turn; aperture? outer and
basal lips fractured; anterior canal large, rather vertical than
transverse; columella stout, revolute, heavily calloused, the
callus extending over the parietal wall. Length, 4.50 mm.;
diameter, 1.62 mm.
Type: No. 2151, Mus. CaHf. Acad. Sci., dredged in Puerto
Escondido, Lower California, in three to five fathoms.
As this shell somewhat resembles Triphora hemphilli
(Bartsch), from the opposite side of the Peninsula of Lower
California, it is probable that more material will show it to be
only a subspecies of that sj^ecies.
11. Triphora peninsularis (Bartsch)
Triphoris peninsularis Bartsch, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 33, p. 255,
pi. 16, fig. 2. Type locality. Point Abreojos, Lower California, Henry
Hemphill, coll.
A single specimen dredged near the main wharf at La Paz,
Lower California, differing somewhat in size, but correspond-
ing with Bartsch's figure and very exactly with his description,
seems to represent this species, taken by Hemphill on the op-
posite side of the Peninsula of Lower California. Tt is too
worn for positive diagnosis.
