242 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [P«oc. 4th Ser.
in collecting. The locality has since been briefly visited by the
writer, but the list of species is founded solely on the collection
made by Dr. Hanna.
The writer is greatly indebted to Mrs. Ida S. Oldroyd, of
Stanford University, for aid in the identification of species,
and to Dr. J. P. Smith, Professor of Paleontology in that in-
stitution, for free access to the University's collections and
library. Acknowledgment is due to Dr. Hanna for the col-
lection of the material, for preparation of the figures, and for
other assistance. Finally, the writer wishes to thank Mr. Leo
G. Hertlein, of the Department of Paleontology, California
Academy of Sciences, for helpful criticism of the manuscript.
San Quintin Bay is a shallow and tortuous inlet on the west
coast of Lower California about 150 miles south of San Diego.
It is surrounded by level plains, elevated but a few feet above
the sea, and extending for several miles inland to the foot of
the mountains. It is protected from the ocean on the west side
by a chain of low hills. The geology of the immediate vicinity
of the bay has been briefly outlined by Hanna^ in the general
report on the expedition to Guadalupe Island. The following
statements are quoted from his account :
'T found it profitable to visit some low cliffs, not over 20
feet high, on the east side of the bay and just south of the
village. Here I succeeded in getting a very large collection of
fossil shells consisting of several thousand specimens.
"The geology in the vicinity of San Quintin is comparatively
simple. In late Pleistocene the present bay was a broad inden-
tation of the sea and ocean-living species were very abundant.
Subsequent elevation raised the bottom on the east side in a
broad fold. The preservation of the fossil shells is excellent,
many of them retaining some of the original coloration. How
far back toward the foothills this emba}anent extended cannot
be detennined but probably it went to the first terrace, the be-
ginning of a long series of rolling hills or mesa. This terrace
is said also to contain fossils, but none were secured. It is prob-
ably much older than the outcrops on the bay. The mountain-
ous country to the east of this terrace is metamorphic, the age
not having been determined.
^'Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser.. Vol. 14, No. 12, 1925, pp. 246-247.
