12 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Diptera should be pinned in so far as possible, if large enough for No. 1
pins; those too small for these pins can be placed in pill-boxes for mount-
ing on points. Place insects of other orders in pill-boxes, except certain
beetles such as Tenebrionidae, Carabidse and some large smooth beetles
and Staphalinidse which should be put into alcohol, as should all spiders,
scorpions and myriopods.
While collecting insects save for the other departments such land
shells, lizards and snakes as you may capture without undue loss of time.
In all your work take no unnecessary risks of accident by carelessness in
climbing about cliffs or over rocks ; a moment's carelessness might seri-
ously cripple the work under your charge and seriously affect the whole
expedition.
(Signed) E. P. Van Duzee,
Curatof.
For the Herpetologist, Mr. Joseph R. Slevin
The following details are submitted as covering the work of the
Department of Herpetology.
Every effort will be made to collect a very large series of lizards and
all the snakes possible from Clarion Island, as specimens from this island
are very rare in collections and a sufficient series should be obtained for
various exchanges. It is also important to discover whether there is more
than one species of lizard as reported by the Webster-Harris Expedition.
As the collection from Socorro Island is represented by only a small
series of the one known lizard, it is important to increase this series in
order to have sufficient material for comparison and exchange. As much
night work as possible will be done in an effort to discover whether any
of the nocturnal lizards and snakes found in the tropics inhabit the island.
The higher elevations where so little work has been done will be given
as much attention as possible.
As the department has no material whatever from the Tres Marias
Islands, as large a series as possible of all the species found there should
be collected. Particular attention will be paid to the smaller islets which
often prove to be the best collecting grounds.
While all specimens possible will be collected on the stops made along
the peninsula and adjacent islands, it is important to secure the species
not in the Academy's collections at present and to secure larger series
of some of the rarer lizards and snakes.
Ample field notes for work with the collections will be kept. Records
will be kept of the localities and abundance of sea turtles and a sharp
lookout kept for sea snakes which have been reported as far north as
La Paz.
The policy of the department in general will be to secure sufficient
material to have good series of all the species after a representative col-
lection is donated to the United States National Museum and a sufficient
number saved for exchange.
(Signed) Joseph R. Slevin
Assistant Curator.
