Vol. XVI JORDAN— MOLLUSCAN FAUNA 243
"On the west side of the bay there is a chain of low volcanic
cones not over 300 feet high. Lava has spread outward from
these as far as the bay shore, and on top of a broad shelf of
this there are other Pleistocene marine sediments, but with a
different set of fossils. Among those collected were some
huge Schizotherous clams, fully eight inches long."
The only discussion of the paleontology of these deposits,
previous to this, is found in a report by DalP on collections
made at San Quintin Bay by C. R. Orcutt. The species recog-
nized were listed, several new species were described, and brief
notes were included by Orcutt on geologic and other conditions
at San Quintin. While the number of species listed was rela-
tively small, some were noted by Dall that are not recognized
in the present collection ; these, however, are added to the fol-
lowing list for the sake of completeness.
With one exception, the species obtained by Hanna were
taken from a series of low cliffs of soft, fossiliferous sand on
the east shore of the bay immediately to the south of the vil-
lage of San Quintin (Loc. 910, Calif. Acad. Sci. coll.). The
specimens of Schizothcenis nuttallii were found at Loc. 929
(C.A.S. coll.), on the west side of the bay, directly opposite
the village. Those species recorded by Dall, but not recognized
in the present collection are included in the list in brackets.
They were apparently taken from several points about the bay,
but as all the collecting; stations are very close together, and as
all belong without question to one horizon, the exact localities
are not here differentiated in the listing of species. The list,
while large and as con:plete as can be made with the material
at hand, is known not entirely to exhaust the fauna, for in the
collection there are a number of species that can not be posi-
tively identified, and doubtless more extensive work about the
bay would discover a few more fonns not yet noted. Mere
generic determinations of fragmentary material are omitted
from the list. In addition to the Mollusca the deposits contain
a few species of Bryozoa, Echinodermata, and Crustacea; also
Foraminifera of many species which have not as yet been
identified.
'West American Scientist, Vol. 19. 1921, pp. 17-24.
