Vol. XV] JORDAN— MOLLUSCAN FAUNA 247
Tegula gallina Forbes [Turcica caffea Gabb]
Tegula ligulata Menke Vitrinella eshnauri Bartsch
[Tegula regina Stearns] Vitrinella stearnsi Bartsch
Calliostoma canaliculatiim Martyn Cyclostremella calif ornica Bartsch
Calliostoma gloriosum Dall Megatebcnnus bimaculatus Dall
[Calliostoma lima Philippi] Diadora aspera Eschscholtz
Calliostoma tricolor Gabb
Amphineura
Callistochiton dccoratus Carpenter Callistochiton palmiilatus mirabilis
Pilsbry
The composition of the above fauna indicates that it is of
upper Pleistocene age. It cannot be lower Pleistocene or
upper Pliocene as suggested by Dall.* Of the 255 species in
the list, only 13, or about 5 per cent, are not known to be living
today. Several of these are closely allied to recent fonns, and
our knowledge of the present day fauna of Lower California
is not sufficiently complete to assume that a few others will not
eventually be found in the living state. While the assemblage
is essentially similar to the recent fauna of southern California
and of Lower California north of Cedros Island, there are in
the list a number of characteristically tropical types that do
not now live in the waters about San Quintin, but are found
living only in considerably warmer regions. Such species as
Glycyrneris multicostata Sby. ; Ostrea megodon Hani. ; Pecten
cataractes Dall ; Cardium proceriim Sby. ; Macrocallista auran-
tiaca Sby.; Macron cethiops Rve. ; Cymatiiiui vestituni Hds.,
and certain of the smaller gastropods are true residents of the
Gulf of California, and of Lower California to the south of
Cedros Island. Their appearance in the fauna indicates that
the climate during the time of deposition of the beds at San
Quintin was notably warmer than it is at present in the region.
It has been proved by Arnold,^ and again brought out by
J. P. Smith," that, on the basis of contrasting faunas depen-
dent upon climatic changes, two distinct horizons may be rec-
ognized in the Pleistocene of San Pedro. The older, known
as the Lower San Pedro, contains a coldwater fauna, of which
•West American Scientist, Vol. 19, 1921, pp. 17 and 21.
» Mem. Calif. Acad. Sci., Vol. 3, 1903, pp. 20 and 29.
•Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., Ser. 4, Vol. 9, No. 4. 1919, pp. 136-137.
