248 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
many species now live only to the north of that district. The
younger, or Upper San Pedro, contains a subtropical fauna, of
which many species are today confined to the coast of Lower
California, and to the Gulf. During the lower Pleistocene,
then, as likewise in the uppermost Pliocene,^ the climate of
western North America was distinctly cooler than it is at
present, while later in the Pleistocene it became wamier than
today.
The deposits at San Quintin, containing a fauna with sev-
eral warmwater elements in a latitude where quite such a
fauna no longer exists, are, therefore, to be placed in the Upper
Pleistocene, as an approximate though more southern equiva-
lent of the Upper San Pedro. In addition to the evidence de-
duced from climatic relations, there remains in support of such
correlation the fact that, with a few exceptions, the species
occurring at San Quintin are also common to the Upper San
Pedro, and far fewer of them are found in older formations.
1. Cumingia densilineata Dall
Plate XXV, figures 1, 3, 5
Cumingia densilineata Dall, West American Scientist, Vol. 19,
1921, p. 22; Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 66, 1925, p. 15,
pi. 8, fig. 5 ; pi. 11, fig. 2.
The original description is as follows :
"Shell subtriangular, equivalve, nearly equilateral, intiated,
rounded in front, acutely rostrate behind ; beaks inconspicuous,
nearly central ; surface regularly closely concentrically, min-
utely lamellose, the wider interspaces faintly radially striated ;
hinge normal, well developed ; pallial sinus deep, low, almost
entirely coalescent with the pallial line below; length. 29;
height, 20 ; diameter, 1 2 mm.
"This differs from all the figured s^jecies, and especially the
Californian recent species, by its close and regular sculpture
and the straightness with which the upper and lower margins
converge toward the posterior end."
The species was described from the Pleistocene of San
Quintin Bay.
'See Arnold, loc. cit., p. 16; Smith, loc. cit., p. 151.
