25? CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
5. Turbonilla (Pyrgiscus) hertleini E. K. Jordan, new species
Plate XXV, figure 2
Shell elongate conic ; fairly thick and solid ; nuclear whorls
and all but last nine-and-one-half post-nuclear whorls decol-
lated ; remaining- post-nuclear whorls flattened in the middle,
forming a straight-sided spire ; sutures moderately constricted,
rather sharply marked ; axial ribs 20 on the last whorl, strong,
slightly protractively slanting, regular, well rounded, and
nearly equal to the intercostal spaces in width ; intercostal
spaces well marked, crossed by about 13 unequal and unequally
spaced incised spiral grooves, of which the second, fifth, and
eighth are much the strongest, forming deep squarish pits, and
the first, and the tenth to thirteenth are the weakest ; periphery
of last whorl well rounded, crossed by feeble continuations of
the axial ribs which evanesce before they reach the middle of
the base, and marked by a spiral row of deep squarish pits,
that, however, do not quite appear on the anterior portion of
the whorls of the spire ; bottoms of peripheral pits very deli-
cately spirally striate ; base rather short, well rounded, sculi>
tured by continuations of the axial ribs, and by seven subequal
and subequally spaced lightly impressed spiral lines, the first
of which is considerably anterior to the peripheral row of pits ;
aperture broadly oval ; outer lip thick, not showing the exter-
nal sculpture within, broken in type specimen ; inner lip with
a feeble oblique fold a little anterior to its intersection ; parietal
wall covered by a thin callus. Length, 6.40 mm. ; width,
1.74 mm.
Type: No. 1852, paratypes Nos. 1853, 1854, and 1855, Mus.
Calif. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 910 (C.A.S. coll.), San Quintin
Bay, Lower California, Pleistocene ; G. D. Hanna, collector.
Nine other specimens were also examined from the same
locality.
TurhoniUa\ hertleini is closely related to a number of previ-
ously described forms, but minor details of sculpture, constant
in all the specimens examined, differentiate it. This species
is named for Mr. Leo G. Hertlein, whose work has contributed
greatly to knowledge of the paleontology of Lower California.
