Vol. XV] JORDAN— MOLLUSC AN FAUNA 253
6. Odostomia (Chrysallida) dallasi E. K. Jordan, new species
Plate XXV, fi&iire 4
Shell elongate ovate, fairly solid ; nuclear whorls of moder-
ate size, obliquely immersed in the first of the succeeding turns ;
post-nuclear whorls six, rather flat, considerably contracted at
the sutures and narrowly shouldered at the summit, crossed by
retractive axial ribs, of which 20 occur on the penultimate
turn; spiral sculpture of four sharp keels, about equal to the
axial ribs in strength, and rendering them strongly nodulous
at their intersection ; axial ribs and spiral keels enclosing deep,
nearly round pits ; periphery of last whorl marked by a groove
equal in strength to those separating the spiral keels between
the sutures, and crossed by continuations of the axial ribs
which terminate at the posterior edge of the first basal cord
and render it slightly nodulous; base of last whorl well
rounded, marked by six or seven unequal and unequally spaced
spiral cords, of which the first, second, and fourth are the
strongest ; the third is very weak, or practically obsolete, leav-
ing a broad, flat channel between the second and fourth, and
the cords anterior to the fourth rapidly decrease in strength
toward the umbilical area; spaces between the basal cords
crossed by numerous slender axial threads; aperture oval;
outer lip showing the external sculpture within ; columella de-
cidedly reflected anteriorly, provided with a strong fold at its
intersection. Length, 3.72 mm.; width, 1.67 mm.
Type: No. 1856, paratypesi Nos. 1857, 1858, 1859, and 1860,
Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 910 (C.A.S. coll.), San
Quintin Bay, Lower California, Pleistocene; G. D. Hanna,
collector.
Nine other specimens were examined from the same locality.
Odostomia dallasi is close to O. nodosa Carpenter, and to
several other related si^ecies, but it is distinguished by the
sculpture of the base, which is constant in all of the specimens
examined, and which is different from that of any previously
described form. ^^^
Named for Dr. G. Dallas Hanna. X^^^'^'W^
4
[zc 1 L i S •:>» ''■: ^. ^ !
