Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION \^
For the Ornithologists and Mammalogists
Mr. Frank Tose and Mr. J. T. Wright
In addition to the general instructions for the work to be carried on
during this expedition, the following detailed instructions are given :
While collecting specimens, the fact must ever be borne in mind that
the National Museum and the Mexican Government each expects to
receive a set of duplicates, and also that specimens of insular forms will
have a high exchange value. In consequence, it is especially desirable to
obtain large series of such forms and of all the shearwaters, etc., as well.
If heretofore unrecorded species are encountered every effort must be
made to obtain specimens thereof.
Juvenile and immature birds of any and all kinds are particularly
desired, and a reasonably limited series of such should be secured when
possible.
A few of the stomachs and hearts of specimens collected should be
preserved in formaldehyde solution, with each stomach and heart tied up
in a piece of cheese cloth, with the field number of the specimen on an
attached label.
A few alcoholics of entire bodies should be made of as many species
as space and opportunity may permit, but not, of course, at the expense
of regularly prepared specimens.
It is possible that well-preserved skeletons or skulls of various species
of birds or mammals may be found along the shores where there are
beaches, and such should be preserved.
As far as can be done, birds and mammals secured should be made up
into the usual study skins, but, when time will not permit of this, speci-
mens that otherwise would be lost must be skinned and preserved with
salt, with proper data attached, until the rush of work is over. Some
skins of commoner species should be placed in a brine pickle, after being
first well washed in freshwater to remove blood from feathers or hair.
Especial care must be taken to see that labels with the proper data
are attached to each bird and each mammal collected, whether made up
or salted. The labels furnished have upon them the field numbers, in
chronological order, of the collector, and in addition to this must have
the date of taking, the sex, -the initial of the collecor, all of which must
be entered fully in the regular note book.
A reasonable number of sets of eggs of each species of bird should
be collected.
Examples of the food of the different species of seed-eating birds
should be saved and, when possible, specimens should be obtained of the
trees or bushes from which came seeds found in the stomachs of birds.
This is additional to the matter of saving crops or stomachs as before
mentioned in these instructions.
Traps for mammals, on islands where such occur, should be kept set,
and as many mammals obtained as opportunity permits; and, if time is
pressing, these may be preserved in any manner that your judgment may
suggest when it is impossible to make regular skins of them.
