250 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
which these smaller forms of Carcharodon differ from the
species of larger size.
Serrations about 50, thick and blunt, the somewhat exscrted
tip of the tooth without serrations, a distinctive character.
Front and back of the tooth with low ridges (not shown in
smaller specimens).
Besides the type, three other examples, all much worn, were
obtained, all smaller than the type. Two of these are broader,
not at all ridged ; in one of these the serrations are rather
sharper than in the type. A fourth example only an inch high
has the serrations still sharper and the base of the crown more
widely extended at base. The most striking characters of the
species lie in the rather large size of the serrations and scarcely
lunate base of the tooth.
Type: No. 1861, paratypes Nos. 1867, 1868, 1869, and 1870,
Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 905 (C.A.S. coll.). Shark
Tooth Hill, Kern County, California; Miocene, Temblor
formation ; Charles Morrice, collector.
This species is close to Carcharodon anioldi of the Cali-
fornia Pliocene and to C. riversi of the same horizon. These
two are probably identical.
Probably all the Miocene specimens identified as Carcha-
rodon belong to C. morricei, which occurs lower down in the
Tertiary series than does C. arnoldi.
The species is named for Mr. Charles Morrice of Bakers-
field, a tireless collector and discoverer of the type specimens
of both C. tenibloris and of C. morricei.
Each of the periods of the later Tertiary represented in
southern California has a giant Carcharodon and one of
moderate size, besides Carcharocles rectus, which is known by
the presence of a basal denticle. The following is a list of the
supposed species:
Carcharodon leviathan \ t-.i   . * t -^
_ , , , ,, . > Pleistocene of Lomita
Carcharodon purplet J
Carcharodon branneri Pliocene of BoHnas
Carcharodon arnoldi (riversi) Pliocene of Bolinas
Carcharodon tembloris ] ... t tj- r- ^
^ , . . . } Miocene of Kern County
Carcharodon morricei
