264 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
especially interesting as being perhaps the first published ac-
count of the organic origin of the oil of California.
The diatom-theory is now accepted by many geologists;
several writers on California geology have, however, indi-
cated their belief that Foraminifera have contributed to the
origin of the oil. Many of the Cretaceous and Tertiary strata
of California are rich in fossil Foraminifera, and their close
connection in some cases with diatomaceous strata, and their
proximity to producing oil fields have led geologists to the
above natural conclusion.
Recent study and experiments conducted upon Foramini-
fera tend to show that they have contributed less to the origin
of oil than has been believed.
Arnold & Anderson, discussing the origin of the petroleum
of California, stated the following in their bulletin on the
Coalinga District :
"The oils of the Coalinga district are believed to have been derived
from two different sources, namely, the organic shales forming the upper-
most member of the Chico (Upper Cretaceous) and those described as
the upper portion of the Tejon (Eocene). It it believed that the oil
originated from the organic matter, both vegetable and animal, once con-
tained in these beds. The shales are composed in large part of the tests
of foraminifera and diatoms, and a smaller number of other organisms, in
such abundance as fully to warrant the assumption that the animal and
vegetable material that must have been contained in them when deposited
was adequate for furnishing a quantity of hydrocarbons and other com-
pounds more than equivalent to the quantity of petroleum found in this
field."2
Anderson & Pack, referring to the origin of oil in the foot-
hill region north of Coalinga, indicated clearly their belief
that Foraminifera contributed to the origin of the oil, although
they considered the Diatomacese of most importance. Quoting
from their writing:
"The oil-bearing zones of this region are the two diatomaceous and
foraminiferal shale formations — the Moreno (Upper Cretaceous) and the
Kreyenhagen (Oligocene?) and the sandy beds lying immediately above
them. This fact points significantly to the two formations as the sources
of the oil, and the writers firmly believe that the petroleum was derived
' Arnold, Ralph, and Anderson, Robert. Geology and Oil Resources of the Coalinga
District, California; U. S. Geological Survey Bulletin 398, page 188, 1910.
