14 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Some hearts of mammals should be preserved as well as those of
birds.
As alcoholics of the smaller rodents (bats, mice, etc.) admit of
softening and making over into skins, this method of preservation may
be used in some cases, if there is space for such in the containers in use.
The bare parts of different species of freshly killed birds should be
sketched in true colors by Mr. Tose.
As full notes as time may permit should be made of all matters of
importance concerning abundance, habits, peculiarities, food, as far as
observed and the habitat of the birds and mammals met with,
A thorough investigation should be made as to the presence of bats
on islands favorable to the habits of these mammals, whether heretofore
recorded from such islands or not. If present, every effort must be made
to capture as many specimens as may be possible. When captured alive
they may be kept in this condition for a number of days and prepared as
specimens when time permits.
(Signed) Joseph Mailliard,
Curator.
For the Paleontologists and Ichthyologists
Dr. G. Dallas Hanna and Mr. Eric Knight Jordan
The Department of Paleontology will be represented on the expedi-
tion by G. Dallas Hanna and Eric K. Jordan. It is expected that at every
stop where fossils of any kind are preserved, ample collections will be
obtained. Since there are no known deposits of this character on Guada-
lupe, Alijos Rocks or any of the Revillagigedo Islands and none will
likely be found, special study should be given to other phases of geology,
particularly the volcanism which has produced the islands and its bear-
ing on adjacent bodies of land. The distribution of land animals and
plants on oceanic islands is due, at least in part, to phenomena belonging
in the province of geology and special study should be given to place
yourselves in a position to be able to give expert advice on this problem
to students in the other branches. Sufficient collections of rocks should
be made so that identifications can be made of any which may be later
discussed in detail.
It is reported that there are deposits of fossils on the Tres Marias
Islands which will be visited. If these are found, as complete collections
as possible should be obtained. The same applies to any places on the
peninsula or adjacent islands of Lower California. Since it is expected
that stops will be made at several places on the way north, possibly enough
of value will be obtained to offset the lack of fossils and it is expected
that many species new to science will be brought to light.
In the collection of marine mollusks many other invertebrates will
inevitably be secured. These should be preserved with as great care as
possible.
It is expected that the members of this department will give consider-
able attention to the collection of fishes wherever stops are made. These,
