Vol. XV] STIPP—FORAMINIFERA AND CALIFORNIA PETROLEUM 265
from the organic matter once contained in the myriad shells of minute
organisms of which these formations are largely composed."^
It is further stated :
"It cannot be said whether both the diatoms and the foraminifera or
only one of these types of organisms furnished the organic matter from
which the oil was produced, or which was the more important, but it seems
probable that both contributed, with the possible addition of ingredients
from still other organisms. Owing to the fact that the organic substance
of plants is less readily decomposed than animal matter and would there-
fore be more certain to persist within the deposit until well buried and
sealed, the diatoms are believed to have been the greatest contributors."*
Pack writes of the origin of the oil of the Sunset- Mid way
Field as follows :
"The chief reservoirs of petroleum in the Sunset-Midway District are
the feebly consolidated sandy beds of the McKittrick group, but the
petroleum is believed to have originated not in these beds, but in the fine-
grained beds of organic origin that make up so large a part of the Mari-
copa shale and of the upper portion of the Vaqueros formation in certain
parts of the region. These fine-grained beds are chiefly the so-called
diatomaceous shales, which are composed in large part of the remains of
minute plants and animals — diatoms and foraminifera — and it is from the
decomposition and alteration of these organisms that the petroleum now
found in the Sunset-Midway field results. In parts of the region the
organic material contained originally in the fine-grained beds appears to
be not so much the remains of diatoms as of larger terrestrial vegetation,
and it is probable that part of the petroleum has been formed by the
alteration of this coarser vegetal material. But in any case it seems clear
that the ultimate source of the petroleum is the organic material originally
contained in these beds."^
Vander Leek writes :
"The diatoms and foraminifera lived at the surface of warm inland
seas, such as were present in what is now the great valley and coast
regions of California, during the various geological ages from the Cre-
taceous to the present. These organisms dying, dropped to the bottom of
the sea and together with other plant and animal matter formed an ooze
or organic mud. Then, due to low temperature and absence of oxygen
» Anderson, Robert and Pack, Robert W. Geology and Oil Resources of the West
Border of the San Joaquin Valley North of Coalinga, California; U. S. Geological
Survey, Bulletin 603, page 194, 1915.
* Op. cit. p. 199.
'Pack, R. VV., The Sunset-Midway Oil Fit-Id of California, U. S. Geological Survey
Professional Paper 116, page 70, 1920.
