256 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
in quantities, a very slow decomposition, or putrification of the organic
parts took place. It is, however, believed that no great quantity of liquid
hydrocarbons were formed at this stage. These are believed to have
formed when, due to earth movements, the mud or ooze was uplifted
above the surface of the sea and by reason of the heat and pressure due
to these movements and possibly aided by the action of saline waters,
distillation of the shale took place, which resulted in the formation of
petroleum."'^
The above statements imply clearly the belief that Foramini-
fera were of considerable importance in contributing to the
origin of the oil of California. This belief is based upon the
following assumptions :
1. That Foraminifera were present in the Cretaceous and
Tertiary seas in large numbers ;
2. That the conditions of sedimentation were such as to
bury a large proportion of the animal tissue along
with the tests of the Foraminifera ; and
3. That this animal tissue was wholly or in part converted
into petroleum by the agency of pressure, heat and
chemical or bacterial action.
Concerning the first and third of these assumptions, little
need be said. Foraminifera were doubtless present in large
numbers in the Cretaceous and Tertiary seas, as shown by the
numerous fossil occurrences. Furthermore, it is reasonable to
believe that a part at least of the animal tissue of Foramini-
fera may have been converted into petroleum by suitable re-
actions. That a large amount of animal tissue was actually
buried in the strata, is, however, oi^en to question. The fol-
lowing evidence is presented for the reason that it throws some
light upon this problem.
Joseph A. Cushman, an American authority on Foramini-
fera, writes of their life history as follows:
"When the animal (Microspheric form) attains its adult stage, there is
a great increase in the number of pseudopodia, and the entire protoplasm
cither leaves the test and accumulates about the exterior or is drawn into
the outer chambers. Finally, each nucleus gathers a mass of protoplasm
"Vander Leek, Lawrence. Petroleum Resources of California; California State
Mining Bureau, Bull. 89, page 13, 1921.
