Vol. XV] McLELL AN— BIRDS AND MAMMALS £87
The flight feathers are in good condition, pin feathers are
present on the upper tail-covcrts, and only a few worn feathers
are to be found among the fresh ones on the crown and back.
The frontal feathers are greatly worn.
12. Phaethon aethereus Linnaeus. Red-billed Tropic-bird
Red-billed Tropic-birds were first seen on North Rock (Ali-
jos Rocks) where they were supposed to be breeding.® They
w^ere not common on either Clarion or Socorro Island, but
they were more numerous on San Benedicto and were believed
to be nesting^'* on the Ash Heap. On Isabel tropic-birds were
abundant. They were noted on the shore line, and their nests
were discovered in holes in the cliffs on the southwest side of
the island by Doctor Hanna and Mr. Wright. Nests contained
eggs, downy young, and many fully fledged immature birds.
The collection includes an adult male and female from
Clarion Island, April 28; and six adult males and two adult
females, two unsexed immature individuals, and two downy
young from Isabel Island, May 24. Twelve eggs were obtained
on Isabel. Two eggs were fresh, and others were in various
stages from slightly to almost fully incubated.
The postnuptial moult of the female from Clarion Island
is nearly complete. The body plumage seems to have been en-
tirely renewed, and but two primaries and the rectrices are
still to be developed. The male is undergoing a similar moult
which has not advanced quite so far. Three of the Isabel Island
birds are acquiring central rectrices. A few new feathers are
appearing also on the under parts.
13. Sula dactylatra Lesson. Blue-faced Booby
Blue-faced Boobies were discovered on North and South
rocks of the Alijos group, where they were believed to be
breeding." On Clarion Island they were nesting in the vi-
cinity of Sulphur Bay. A good many nests contained fresh
eggs, and newly hatched young were numerous. They did
"Hanna, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci.. 4th Ser., Vol. XV, p. 29.
•'Hanna, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser., Vol. XV, p. 65 (red-tailed, lapsus
calami).
"Hanna, Proc Calif. Acad. Sci.. 4th Ser., Vol. XV, pp. 28-29.
