Vol. XV] McLELLAN— BIRDS AND MAMMALS 289
15. Sula brewsteri Goss. Brewster's Booby
Brewster's Boobies were found nesting in the washes on
San Benedicto. They were also seen on Roca Partida, Socorro,
and Isabel, but they did not appear to be breeding.
Two adult females, and an immature male and female were
collected on Roca Partida on May 2, and an adult female
and three unsexed immature birds were obtained on San
Benedicto on May 12.
Postnuptial moult is apparently in progress on the Roca
Partida birds. Both adult females are undergoing a complete
replacement of the body and flight feathers. The female from
San Benedicto has some of the breast and abdomen feathers
still in the sheath, otherwise there is no indication of moult.
One of the immature examples from the same island is de-
veloping a new rectrix and a few white feathers on the abdo-
men. The immature bird from Roca Partida is acquiring fresh
feathers on the upper parts, throat, and breast.
Three sets of eggs were obtained on San Benedicto, one
being fresh, the others slightly and one-half incubated. The
eggs measure as follows: 60,0 mm. x 39.5, 52.0 x 39.0, 59.1 x
41.4, 51.0 X 38.1, 54.5 x 36.6.
16. Sula piscator (Linnaeus). Red-footed Booby
Large colonies of Red-footed Boobies were nesting in the
Euphorbias near Sulphur Bay, Clarion Island. Some of the
nests contained eggs, others well developed young. Groups of
birds in immature plumage kept to themselves, and a few of
such birds were found to, be breeding.
On San Benedicto, Red-footed Boobies were roosting on
the cliffs, but they nested in the grassy areas, building up plat-
forms of grass culms to a height of a foot or more. The eggs
found in these nests were all heavily incubated^^.
Two adult males, four adult females, four immature birds
(one female and three unsexed). and one downy young were
taken on Clarion Island, April 27.
The contour plumage of the adult birds is but little worn,
but a moult of the flight feathers is in progress in two ex-
amples.
"Hanna, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser., Vol. XV, p. 65.
