Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION J 5
as well as the marine invertebrates, should shed much light on the former
history of the islands and the currents of the waters surrounding them.
Reasonable care must be exercised in the selection of specimens to be
preserved. It is desired that a sufficient number should be kept of each
species to determine the distribution and to enable the identification to be
made; rarities should be obtained in quantity. Fishes too large to be
preserved in the containers provided should be measured, weighed and
photographs of them taken. In some cases fins, heads or other parts can
be preserved for identification.
Tanks have been provided for the transportation of live fishes for
exhibition in the Steinhart Aquarium. These should be filled before
departure from tropical waters and as many specimens as possible brought
back alive. A good supply of sea horses in particular, is greatly desired.
It is expected that Dr. Hanna will take most of the official photo-
graphs on the expedition with still cameras. He should be prepared to
photograph interesting or desirable specimens in all groups which may be
needed for future illustration or which may be called to his attention by
the other collectors.
In the motion picture work he will be assisted by Mr. Raymond
Duhem who accompanies the expedition for this particular purpose.
Every possible opportunity should be afforded for Air. Duhem to secure
a valuable and interesting series of films.
Make stops and observations wherever and whenever you think results
of interest may be obtained.
No private collections are permitted. All specimens must be brought
to the Museum from which distribution will be made.
No interviews are to be given out except by or through you and the
Captain.
Very respectfuly,
Barton Warren Evermann,
Dircctor. j
Itinerary
It was contemplated that the expedition would be out a little
over two months, April 15 to June 22. My own connection
with the Geological Department of the Pacific and Associated
Oil Companies as Microscopist was such that Mr. J. A. Taff,
Chief Geologist permitted my absence for the period indicated.
Practically nothing was known previous to our visit of the
geology and oil possibilities of many of the places where we
expected to call. Through the kindly interest taken in the
work by Mr. F. B. Henderson, Vice President of the Asso-
ciated Oil Company, a supply of gasoline for the small, detach-
able boat engine was furnished without cost.
