Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 21
Narrative
April 75 to 77 — The Ortolan with all of the party, except
Messrs. Contreras, Gallegos, Jordan, Solis and Hanna, left
Mare Island Navy Yard in San Francisco Bay at one in the
afternoon of April 15. Mr. Jordan and I reached San Diego
the next evening. The ship arrived on the morning of the
seventeenth at eight o'clock and immediately went to the
Destroyer Base where the installation of a second refrigerator
machine was begun at once.
The placing of this machine on the ship was done at the
suggestion of the Academy and was primarily for the benefit
of the Department of Ornithology. It was foreseen by all that
Messrs. Tose and Wright would have great difficulty in pre-
paring all of the specimens of birds and eggs in standard
museum manner which could be profitably taken on the cruise.
To do so each specimen of sea bird would require at least one
hour of straight taxidermy and it was believed that any ar-
rangement which would lessen this time would enable a
larger collection to be obtained.
The officials of the Navy Department deserve the highest
commendation for the readiness with which they undertook the
installation of the refrigerator because it involved a very con-
siderable amount of trouble. It was placed on the right side
of the after deck and proved to be one of the greatest aids to
bird collecting ever taken into the tropics. S^^ecimens in large
numbers were taken in favorable places and with the excellent
working facilities already provided for the purpose, prepara-
tion of the specimens could proceed at any time, even days or
weeks afterwards. As a matter of fact a large consignment of
birds and eggs was sent to San Diego when the vessel had to
replenish fuel on May 15, and was there transhipped to San
Francisco in cold storage. Likewise on the final return of the
Ortolan the refrigerator was filled with unprepared specimens.
The equipment undoubtedly enabled the party to bring back
some hundreds of specimens which could not have been col-
lected at all had it been necessary to complete the taxidermy
work in the field. So successful was the venture that it seems
to me every expedition which can possibly do so should be
equipped with cold storage facilities.
L i g r A i^ V ; ::?
