352 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Erect annual. 3-12 dm. high, glabrous except in inflores-
cence, with fairly coarse main stem, simple below and with
numerous slender tortile branchlets above, these 5-15 cm. long,
often supporting itself on adjacent vegetation, larger branches
sometimes ascending and floriferous; leaves very scattered,
with midrib ending in glandular swelling, lower ones opposite,
ovate to ovate-lanceolate, obtuse, lower leaf-blades 1-3 cm.
long, petioles 1-2 cm. long, main cauline leaves lanceolate, al-
ternate, obtusish, 2-9 cm. long, 3-10 mm. wide, short-petioled
to subsessile, upper cauline gradually reduced, linear ; inflores-
cence a dense spicate raceme, 5-30 cm. long, subsecund, densely
glandular-villous, with herbaceous glandular-pubescent lance-
olate or linear bracts, pedicels 2-3 mm. long, glandular-pubes-
cent; calyx herbaceous, glandular-villous, especially without,
5-parted, the segments subequal in length, 3-4 mm. long,
swollen-glandular at the tips, the dorsal segment linear-lance-
olate, the others lanceolate to lance-ovate; corolla white to
bluish, often with darker reticulate veining, with yellowish
palate, pubescent without, 9-14 mm. long, corolla-tube cylin-
drical, 5-7 mm. long, 1.5-2 mm. wide, glabrate within, with
broad saccate spur ca. 1 mm. long, upper lip 3.5-6 mm. long,
reflexed, with its edges bent back, and with the ovate lobes ca.
half as long as the lip itself, lower lip forming large part of
the flower, spreading and deflexed, 4-7 mm. long, the great
palate minute glandular-puberulent, the 3 lobes subequal,
rounded, slightly over one-third length of the lip and some-
what wider than long; stamens didynatnous, ca. as long as
corolla-tube, strongly dilated toward tip, glabrous except for
short pubescence at genicula, anther-sacs confluent, divergent,
5th stamen very rudimentary; pistil about as long as stamens,
glandular-villous except near somewhat swollen entire stigma;
capsule 6-8 mm. long, glandular-pubescent, cylindric-ovoid.
tipped with persistent style 3-4 mm. long, dehi.scing by 2 well-
formed anterior subterminal pores ; seeds dark, ovoid, almost
1 mm. long, with many high ridges passing almost unbroken
froni one end of seed to other and parallel to each other, or
anastamosing and forming a reticulate condition.
