22 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Pkoc. 4th Ser.
April ly — April 17 at San Diego was spent in assembling a
few additional supplies such as nitrogelatin for use in the col-
lection of fishes. An assortment of bottles, thermometers and
nets was placed on board by the Scripps Institution for Bio-
logical Research at La Jolla, California; these were to be used
in the collection of a series of samples of water and surface
plankton as was done by the Guadalupe Expedition of 1922.^
This work was continued until we reached Clarion Island,
after which it was found impossible to detail any member of
the party to it without unduly hampering other assigned duties.
April i8 — On April 18, the installation of the refrigerator
having been completed the previous evening, the ship was
moved to La Playa, the Navy coal and oil station near Point
Loma, San Diego Bay. All who were on shore joined the
vessel there and at 1 p. m. departure was taken for Guadalupe
Island. Before leaving Mr. Lawrence M. Huey of the San
Diego Society of Natural History took a photograph of the
party on the dock. (See plate 1.)
April ig — The sea became very rough during the night of
April 18 and a very uncomfortable time was spent by all ; many
of the party were seasick. Our quarters on the bridge deck
had been enclosed and covered with canvas by the Naval offi-
cials at Mare Island, but even with the excellent facilities pro-
vided some of the heavy seas broke over the top and wet some
of the supplies. Fortunately the mine-sweepers of the Ortolan
class are exceedingly seaworthy and many a larger vessel
would have been more uncomfortable in the weather which
prevailed.
This first night out proved to be the worst of the entire
cruise, and we were all glad to get in the lee of Guadalupe
Island ; anchor was cast at 2 :30 p. m. under the towering lava
cliffs at Northeast Anchorage.
The object of our visit to Guadalupe Island was to obtain a
census of the herd of elephant seals for comparison with counts
of previous years and also to secure an additional series of
motion pictures of these strange beasts of the sea. In 1922
we had visited the herd in July after all the animals except the
males had left the beach, but by making this early trip we had
• See Hanna, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th ser., Vol. 14, No. 12, 1925, p. 226.
