Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 23
hopes of getting some data on the breeding habits of the
species. It was also expected that the collectors would be able
to add greatly to the collections from this island by this early
visit, particularly in the groups of plants, insects, fishes and
birds, all of which could progress while the work on the ele-
phant seal beach was being carried on. Therefore, we had
planned to establish a camp on shore at Northeast Anchorage.
Soon after we reached that place, a landing party went
ashore for a short time. A fierce gale was blowing directly off
shore and the high precipitous mountains and cliffs produced
swirling eddies of wind of almost tornado violence. Clouds
of spray were actually picked up from the surface of the sea
and scattered hither and yon. When one of these sudden gusts
of wind, known in the sailors' parlance as a "will-a-waw" the
world over, would strike the ship it would surge violently
against the anchor or swing suddenly from side to side. At
this point a vessel must come in very close to shore in order
to get "holding bottom" on account of the great steepness of
the submarine slopes of the mountain. A projecting lava reef
adds to the dangers of the place. Under the circumstances
Captain Nelson very wisely considered the anchorage unsafe
for the night and those who had landed were called back.
With the wind which was blowing there was only one pos-
sible place to stay at anchor at Guadalupe and this was at South
Bay. Investigation showed that here the ship would be very
safe and comfortable as long as the storm continued from the
northwest, and the anchor was dropped late in the evening, too
late for further shore work on the 19th.
At Northeast Anchorage it was noticed that the goats were
just as abundant as in 1922. The lowlands were quite green
with new vegetation showing conclusively that some rain had
fallen at no very distant date. However, as we sailed down
the east side of the island the landscape became progressively
more barren and at the south end it was as parched as any
desert could be.
Professor Gallegos told us that the soldiers who had been
stationed at the Northeast Anchorage had been removed a
few months prior to our visit owing to transportation diffi-
culties, but that as soon as a vessel, for which negotiations
were in progress, was secured it was expected that they would
