392 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Sf.r.
equal to stamens, glandular-pubescent below, filiform, i>er-
sistent, stigma scarcely bilobed, ovary ovate, glandular-pubes-
cent; capsule "ellipsoid", ca. 12 mm. long, glabrate, included
in slightly spreading calyx ; seeils brown, coarsely corky-tuber-
culate, body ca. 1 mm. long, with emarginate striate, irregular
light-colored wing.
Material seen, the type collection, San Luis Tultitlanapa,
Puebla, near Oaxaca, Pur pus 2567 (C, F, G, M, NY, S, US).
The presence of the two prominent plaits in the floor of the
corolla certainly distinguishes this plant sufficiently to make it
a species distinct from M. erubesccus which lacks such folds
but has merely two lines of hair.
8. Maurandv.\ erubescens (Don) (iray, Proc. Am.
Acad. 7:377. 1868.
Frutescent, slender, branching freely, climbing by the twin-
ing petioles and pedicels, stems glandular-puberulent to pilose
throughout; leaves thin, triangular-hastate or -cordate to ob-
scurely 5-lobed, glabrate to soft-pubescent, coarsely dentate,
somewhat bicolored, lower ones opposite, blades up to 15 cm.
long and equally wide, subcordate, acuminate at tip, petioles
up to several cm. long, glabrate to glandular-pilose, upper
leaves reduced, alternate; flowers solitary, axillary, spreading
horizontally, pedicels 2-6 cm. long, ebracteate, pubescent ; calyx
5-parted, glabrate or pubescent without and within and tipped
with minute glands, green or with purplish tinge, segments
subequal, 15-20 mm. long, erect in anthesis, spreading in fruit;
corolla 4-7 cm. long, tubular for 1.5-2 cm., constricted ca. 1
cm. above base, glabrous within below constriction, coarsely
yellowish pubescent at narrow part, gradually ampliate up-
wards especially on the lower side, subarcuate. glabrate to
finely pubescent without, limb with 2 upper lobes reflexed, &
3 lower ones somewhat erect, subequal. ca. 1 cm. long, 1.5
cm. wide, finely glandular, throat whitish with 2 plaits with
bright yellow hairs; stamens connivent at outer extremities,
scarcely dilated except at very base, not exserted, glandular
toward tips, geniculate and heavily bearded toward ba.se.
