24 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser,
be returned. It will be recalled that as a result of recom-
mendations made by the members of the expedition of 1922
the President of Mexico declared Guadalupe Island a govern-
ment reservation. The soldiers had been stationed there to
enforce the regulations which had been prescribed and from
all we could learn they have performed their duty well.*
During the evening of April 19 three murrelets and a shear-
water flew aboard the ship, attracted by the lights. And over
the side, around a submerged light brought for the purpose, a
very considerable number of fishes was taken for the collection.
April 20 — The gale continued all night from the north-
north-west with full force and there was no indication that it
would cease soon. At daybreak it was evident that a landing
on the elephant seal beach would be impossible at that time
and other plans were made accordingly.
Early in the morning Messrs. Slevin, Jordan and I visited
the old South fur seal rookery but found no seals. We
landed for a short time and collected some insects, shells and
plants and on the way back across South Bay to the ship we
made four successful dredge hauls from sandy bottom.
At 10 a. m. we sailed for Northeast Anchorage again and
landed Messrs. Tose, Mason, Wright and Keifer, equipped to
spend the night on shore. They set out at once up the cafion
back of the barracks for the top of the island, although the
weather was very threatening and a fierce, cold wind was
blowing.
The rest of the party returned with the ship to South Bay
for the night. The motor boat was launched upon arrival and
about 20 men of the crew went ashore at the old rookery for
"liberty." Messrs. Slevin, Jordan, Musser and some of the
crew collected fishes on the lava reef but had poor success on
account of the high surf which was breaking. Professor
Gallegos secured a few birds and Sefior SoHs secured some
plants, one being a cactus of the genus Mammillaria, the species
being the same as I had found at the same place in 1922.
Captain Nelson, Mr. Duhem and I went with the motor boat
around Inner and Outer Islands. Some pictures were taken of
these remarkable rocks. Inner Island is composed largely of
4 See Hanna, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., Vol. 14, No. 12, 1925, pp. 232-233.
