402 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Se«.
terg'tes ; pygidium rounded at apex, nearly planate, with a median tri-
angular slightly embossed area and a shallow furrow on each side,
tergum with inconspicuous nearly erect pale hairs, fimbria pale brownish.
Type: Female, No. 1724, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., collected
by Dr. F. E. Blaisdell, in April, at Mokelumne Hill, California.
3. Andrena (Andrena) shasta Viereck, new species
Related to A. (A.) pascoensis Cockerell of which it may
prove to be only a race or variety.
Female: Length 12 mm.; body black, mostly covered with tawny
hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial line ::65:82; axial line :
temporal line ::34:19; malar line : joint 3 of antennae ::3:12; elevated
portion of malar space nearly crowded out, ocelloccipital line : greatest
diameter of lateral ocellus ::4:5; head covered with tawny hairs; front
rugoso-punctate, not elevated into a welt along the fovea ; fovea at most
: ocellocular line ::12:14; distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocu-
lar line ::2:14; foveal band wanting; fovea slightly gradually attenuated
below its middle and continued to a point apparently on the clypeal line,
filled with golden hairs ; face dullish, closely punctured, the punctures
adjoining or nearly so; clypeus elevated above the apical margin, convex,
polished and coarsely punctured, the punctures from adjoining to three
puncture-widths apart; clypearea present but poorly defined; clypeus
thinly hairy its sculpture not at all hidden by hairs ; labrarea truncate,
its width at base : length down the middle ::10:5; width at apex : length
down the middle : :7 :5 ; labrarea at base : distance between lower cor-
ners of the clypeus ::10:20; labrum with a fringe of golden hairs; joint
3 of antennae :4 -f 5 ::12:10; joints 4 and 5 thicker than long; first six
joints of antennae blackish excepting the apex of the scape which is dark
stramineous; mandibles atypical, robust, extending to the outer edge of
the labrum, dark stramineous, blackish near apex ; palpi typical ; thorax
covered with an abundance of tawny hairs that are much shorter on the
dorsulum where they are darker than the hairs on the mesopleura ; dor-
sulum shining, with conspicuous adjoining or nearly adjoining punc-
tures; notauli represented by a shining line; mesopleura with adjoining
pits ; scutel hairy and sculptured much like the dorsulum ; metanotum
hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the sculpture is denser
and less distinct ; tegulae pale stramineous, polished ; wing base strami-
neous ; subcosta blackish; stigma pale brownish stramineous, rest of veins
dark stramineous; membrane uniformly tinged with brown; legs blackish
except for the apex of femora and all of the tarsi and tibiae, which are
more or less yellowish stramineous ; legs covered with pale ochreous and
golden hairs; scopa typical, its hairs nearly golden throughout; hind
metatarsi at most apparently a little narrower than mid metatarsi ; pro-
podeum with its enclosure poorly defined, coarsely sculptured as in A.
