Vol. XV] VIERECK— DESCRIPTIONS OF SEVEN ANDRENIDS 493
(S.) cratcegi Rob.; rest of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat
like the mesopleura but not so coarsely, and covered with finer golden
hair ; propodeal pleura with sparse pits ; abdomen with its tergum shin-
ing and sculptured much like the face; the punctures from adjoining to
three puncture-widths apart on the first tergite, the punctures adjoining
or nearly so on the succeeding tergites ; second, third and fourth tergites
with an apical, golden hair band that nearly completely fills the depressed
portion of those tergites ; apical edge of first, second, third and fourth
tergites with a stramineous border ; second tergite with its elevated por-
tion down the middle : depressed portion ::22:10; fifth tergite shining,
finely reticulate, its punctures not so close but much coarser than on the
other tergites ; pygidium nearly planate, nearly pointed at apex ; tergum
with inconspicuous, pale nearly erect hairs in addition to the hair bands ;
fimbria golden.
Other locality, Shasta Co., Calif.
Type: Female, No. 1725, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., collected by
Dr. F. E. Blaisdell, at San Diego, California.
4. Andrena (Andrena) sinaloa Viereck, new species
Related to ^. (A.) kincaidi Cockerell.
Female: Length 11 mm.; body black, mostly covered with whitish or
white hair; head with its facial line : transfacial line ::57:77; axial line
: temporal line ::32 :18; malar line : joint 3 of antennae ::2.5:11; ele-
vated portion of malar space virtually crowded out ; ocelloccipital line :
greatest diameter of lateral ocellus : :3 :5 ; head covered with white hairs ;
front rather indistinctly rugulose and pitted, not elevated into a welt
along the fovea; fovea at most : ocellocular line ::10:13; distance be-
tween fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line ::3:13; foveal band wanting;
fovea attenuated below its middle and continued to a point apparently a
little below the clypeal line, filled with whitish hairs ; face shining, closely
punctured ; clypeus brownish down the middle, not elevated above the
apical margin, convex, polished, with well separated distinct punctures ;
clypearea present but poorly defined ; clypeus thinly hairy its sculpture
not at all hidden by hairs ; labrarea rounded, its width at base : length
down the middle ::10:4; labrum with a fringe of pale hairs and without
a median longitudinal crista between the labrarea and apical edge of
labrum; joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 11 :8; joints 4 and 5 thicker
than long, the succeeding joints as thick as long or little longer than
thick except joints 11 and 12 which are distinctly longer than thick;
antennae blackish throughout; mandibles atypical, robust, black at base;
palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance of whitish hairs
that are much shorter on the dorsulum than the whitish hairs on the
mesopleura; dorsulum shining, closely and deeply punctured; notauli
