404 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Phoc. 4th Ser.
represented by an impressed shining line ; mesopleura coarsely pitted ;
scutel hairy and sculptured much like the dorsulum ; metanotum hairy
like the dorsulum, densely sculptured ; tegulae dark brown, polished ;
wing base partly blackish brown ; subcosta blackish brown ; stigma pale
brownish stramineous; rest of veins dull stramineous, the costal half of
the wings infuscated; legs blackish except for the tarsi which are more
or less brownish, covered with whitish and golden hairs ; scopa typical,
its hairs whitish, hairs at base above darkened ; hind metatarsi at most
apparently a little narrower than mid metatarsi ; propodeum with its en-
closure poorly defined, rugose nearly as in A. (S.) cratagi Rob.; rest of
upper face of propodeum indistinctly sculptured; abdomen with its ter-
gum shining to polished and sculptured much like the face, the punc-
tures mostly from adjoining to two puncture-widths apart on the first
tergite, hardly closer on the succeeding tergites ; second, third and fourth
tergites with an apical, whitish hair band that is interrupted in the mid-
dle of the second; apical edge of first, second, third and fourth tergites
with a dark stramineous border; second tergite with its elevated portion
down the middle : depressed portion ::9:17; fifth tergite shining, reticu-
late, its punctures coarser and sparser than on the other tergites; pygi-
dium nearly planate; tergum with inconspicuous pale, nearly erect hairs
in addition to the hair bands ; fimbria brownish.
Type: Female, No. 1726, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., collected by
Chas. Fuchs, at Culiacan, Sinaloa, Mexico.
5. Andrena (Andrena) innominata Viereck, new species
Related to A. (A.) interrogationis Viereck & Cockerell.
Male : Length 7 mm. ; body greenish, mostly covered with white hair ;
head with its facial line : transfacial line ;:40:48; axial line : temporal
line : :21 :11 ; temples rounded; malar line : joint 3 of antennae ::1.5:6;
elevated portion of malar space virtually crowded out; head covered with
white hairs except along the inner eye margin, upper eye margin, and
outer eye margin above the middle of temples and on front where the
hairs are black; front with longitudinal raised line; ocellocular line :
ocelloccipital line : :9 :4 ; face shining, indistinctly punctured, its punc-
tures from one to three puncture-widths apart; clypeus nearly planate,
slightly concave, dullish and more distinctly punctured than the face, ele-
vated directly above the apical margin; clypearea wanting; sculpture of
the clypeus not hidden by the mustache; labrarea truncate at apex,
emarginate beyond on its under side, polished, its width at base : great-
est length ::5:2, width at apex : length down the middle ::4:2; labrarea
at base apparently half as wide as the distance between the lower angles
of the clypeus, with a fringe of whitish hairs; joint 3 of antennae :4: :6:4;
joint 4 and following joints from a little longer than thick to nearly
one and one-half times as long as thick, dullish; flagel, almost straight
