Vol. XV] VIERECK— DESCRIPTIONS OF SEVEN ANDRENIDS 495
in outline; antennae brownish throughout; mandibles nearly typical,
rather slender, extending a little beyond the lower corners of the clypeus,
black except for the apical fourth which is dull dark reddish; palpi
slender; thorax covered with an abundance of white hairs; hairs of
dorsulum nearly as long as the hair of mesopleura; dorsulum dullish,
finely reticulated and sparsely punctured, the punctures indistinct and
from two to five or more puncture-widths apart, mostly the latter ; notauli
represented by an impressed shining line; mesopleura dullish with pale
ochreous hairs throughout, finely reticulated and mostly covered with
shallow pits that are mostly three or more pit-widths apart; scutel hairy
and sculptured like the dorsulum; metanotum hairy and sculptured like
the dorsulum except that the sculpture is denser; tegulae dark brown,
polished ; wing base brownish ; subcosta blackish ; stigma brownish, mem-
brane nearly colorless; legs blackish brown excepting the small joints of
the tarsi which are paler, covered with whitish hairs ; hind metatarsi at
most hardly wider than mid metatarsi and nearly half as wide as hind
tibiae at apex of the latter; propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined,
irregularly rugulose on basal half, finely granular on apical half, rounded
off at apex; rest of upper face sculptured somewhat like the mesopleura
but with smaller pits and covered with finer whitish hair; propodeal
pleura sculptured apparently like the mesopleura ; abdomen with its
tergum shining, finely reticulated and indistinctly punctured, the punc-
tures mostly three or four puncture-widths apart ; first tergite, with erect
whitish hairs ; second and third tergites with nearly erect whitish hairs ;
second tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : depressed
portion ::11:7; seventh sternite triangularly emarginate at apex, the
emargination as deep as the distance between the tips of the processes
of this sternite; apical margin of tergites brownish; process narrow,
shaped as in A. (A.) Jessica C. & C. but slenderer at base and truncate
at apex; tergum without hair bands, hair at apex of abdomen of a golden
hue; hypopygium somewhat as in A. (A.) jessicce C. & C. but with the
lingam nearly parallel sided and much narrower though thicker at apex;
processes also slenderer.
Type: Male, No. 1727, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., collected by
Dr. F. E. Blaisdell in April at Mokelumne Hill, California.
6. Andrena (Andrena) marina Viereck, new species
Related to A. (A.) hisalicis Viereck.
Male: Length 8 mm.; body black, mostly covered with ochreous hair;
head with its facial line : transfacial line ::47:58; axial line : temporal
line ::24:14; temples rounded; malar line : joint 3 of antennae ■.•.2:7;
elevated portion of malar space virtually crowded out ; head covered
with ochreous hairs except along the inner eye margin, upper eye margin,
and outer eye margin above the middle of temples and on front where
