406 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
the hairs are black; front rugulose, shining; ocellocular line : ocelloc-
cipital line ::11:4; face shining, rather indistinctly punctured, its punc-
tures from one to two puncture-widths apart; clypeus convex; labrarea
broad and truncate, polished, its width at base : greatest length : :7 :2,
nearly as wide at apex as at base; joint 3 of antennae :4::7:4; joint 4
and following joints from a little thicker than long to a little longer
than thick, dullish; flagel, almost straight in outline; antennae brownish
throughout ; mandibles atypical, robust, extending beyond the outer edge
of the labrarea, and nearly to end of the basal half of its fellow, black
except for the apical third which is reddish; palpi slender; thorax cov-
ered with an abundance of dark, dull ochreous hairs ; hairs of dorsulum
seemingly a little shorter than hair of mesopleura; dorsulum dullish,
finely reticulated and sparsely punctured, the punctures indistinct and
from two to five or more puncture-widths apart; notauli represented by
a shining line ; mesopleura dullish with pale ochreous hairs throughout,
finely reticulated and mostly covered with shallow pits, that are three
or more pit-widths apart; scutel hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum;
metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the sculp-
ture is denser; tegulae dark brown, polished; wing base mostly brown-
ish ; subcosta blackish ; stigma brownish stramineous with a blackish
tinge, membrane uniformly tinged with brown; legs blackish brown
excepting the tarsi which are brownish stramineous ; legs covered with
ochreous hairs ; hind metatarsi at most hardly wider than mid metatarsi
and nearly half as wide as hind tibiae at apex; propodeum with its en-
closure poorly defined, irregularly rugulose, rounded off at apex, rest
of upper face sculptured somewhat like the mesopleura but with smaller
pits and covered with pale ochreous hair; propodeal pleura sculptured
apparently like the mesopleura ; abdomen with its tergum shining, almost
polished, finely reticulated and indistinctly punctured, the punctures
mostly three or four puncture-widths apart; first and second tergites
with long, erect, pale ochreous hairs ; second tergite with its elevated
portion down the middle : depressed portion ::14:7; fourth and fifth
tergites with brownish appressed hairs on the elevated portion, fifth
tergite with its basal blackish portion covered with poorly defined punc-
tures that are as many as four puncture-widths apart; rest of fifth
tergite and exposed portion of sixth and seventh tergites with a strami-
neous margin; anal process subemarginate and slenderer than in A. (A.)
geranii Rob.; prominences of seventh sternite like an M in outline; hair
at apex of abdomen of a golden hue; hypopygium of the A. (A.)
geranii Rob. type but lobes not at all pointed outwardly and under side
of ends of processes not bevelled.
Type: Male, No. 1728, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., collected by
Chas. Fuchs in Marin County, California.
