\'0L. XV] VIERECK— DESCRIPTIONS OF SEVEN ANDRENIDS 497
7. Andrena (Andrena) chapmanae Viereck
Andrena chapmance Vier. Can. Ent., 36 (191, 223), 1904.
Type: No. 4121, The Academy Nat. Sci., Phila.
Andrena yosemitensis Cockerell, Pan-Pacific. Ent., 1, (51, 62), 1924.
Type: No. 1586, The Calif. Acad. Sci.
Type locality: Yosemite, Calif., June 24, 1902 (B. Chapman.)
Related to A. (A.) purpurina Vier. & Ckll.
Female: Length 10 mm.; body mostly bluish green, mostly covered all
over with black hairs ; head with its facial line : transfacial line : : 64 :
76; axial line : temporal line : : 31 : 19; malar line : joint 3 of an-
tennae :: 3 : 10; elevated portion of malar space nearly crowded out;
ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of lateral ocellus : : 6 : 5 ; front
punctured and longitudinally striate, not elevated into a welt along the
fovea ; width of fovea at most : ocellocular line : : 10 : 15 ; distance
between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line : : 5 : 15; foveal band vir-
tually wanting at upper end of the inner eye margin; fovea nearly
parallel sided, narrowed below the middle and continued to a point ap-
parently a little below the clypeal line, filled with dark seal brown hairs;
face polished or nearly so, partly indistinctly reticulate, with distinct
punctures that are as much as two puncture-widths apart ; clypeus mostly
black, distinctly elevated above the apical margin, convex, polished, with
large scattered punctures that are as much as six puncture-widths apart
down the middle, but sculptured like the face along the edges excepting
the anterior edge ; clypearea poorly defined ; clypeus thinly hairy its
sculpture not at all hidden by hairs ; labrarea emarginate, its width at
base : length down the middle :: 12 : 4; width at apex : greatest
length : : 4 : 5 ; labrum with a fringe of blackish hairs, with a faint
median longitudinal welt between the labrarea and apical edge of labrum;
joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 : : 10 : 8 ; joints 4 and 5 thicker than long,
the succeeding joints as thick as long except joint 12 which is distinctly
longer than thick; antennae blackish throughout; mandibles atypical,
robust, extending about half way to the outer edge of the labrum, dark
reddish throughout ; palpi nearly typical ; thorax above thinly covered
with hairs that are shorter on the dorsulum than the hairs on the meso-
pleurae ; dorsulum dullish in front, mostly shiny, finely reticulated and
punctured like the face but more distinctly so and not so closely ; notauli
represented by a shining line ; mesopleurae shiny, sculptured somewhat
like the dorsulum but not so closely or distinctly punctured ; scutel hairy
and sculptured much like the dorsulum but with some longer hairs and
with pale hairs laterally near the edge ; metanolum with some pale hairs,
partly shiny, mostly dullish, densely, finely sculptured and punctured ;
tegulae dark brownish stramineous, partly almost polished; wing base dark
stramineous ; sul>costa blackish brown ; stigma pale yellowish brown-
stramineous with a blackish border, rest of veins dull blackish strami-
neous ; first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell be-
