Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION £5
a yellow volcanic sand with a cap of black lava and several
dykes extending downward from it to the water line. The
walls are sheer and landing is impossible. There is a little
vegetation on top but with the field glasses we were not able
to make out any species except a "cholla" similar to the one
that grows on Guadalupe.
Outer Island is composed wholly of lava and inside there is
a bowl-shaped crater containing water. A shelf of rock on the
west side affords a possible place to land in calm weather, and
from it a person might climb over the rim to the inside; we
could not attempt it with the sea running as it was that day.
On a narrow shelf just above the surf on the south side of the
island 34 California sea lions were found. Cows and bulls
were present but no pups. We suspected that the water on
the inside of the crater might be fresh because the slopes of
the walls afford a considerable drainage area. These are
composed of hard black lava weather-cracked all over, giving
the appearance, suggested by Captain Nelson, of a railroad
map of Illinois.
At 5 :30 p. m. the Captain picked up all of the men who had
landed except six who were inland away from the beach with-
out water or food and poorly clad. Naturally we felt con-
siderable anxiety for them and at 9 p. m. Captain Nelson and
I with one member of the crew started with the "dinky" for
the landing to see if they had arrived. When halfway there
we saw the light of a fire they had started inside the walls of
one of the old Russian sealer's houses but it took us nearly an
hour to get there from the ship against the gale of wind. All
of the men were safe>. They had captured a young black kid
which they brought on board for a mascot. (Next day they
tried to kill the fleas on it with creosote, and killed the goat
also.)
Many showers of rain fell during the afternoon and con-
tinued in increased quantity into the night. During one squall
we had a fine rainbow, the ends of which almost met in a circle
in our boat.
April 21 — I think fully half an inch of rain fell where the
ship was anchored during the night, undoubtedly a very con-
siderable amount for this section of the island. It is to be
