410 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Sek.
Introduction
The following paper is a report on all available collections of
fossils from the Pliocene beds of Cedros Island^, ofif the west
coast of Lower California, and of the general region about
Turtle Bay'', opposite the island in the central part of the west
coast of the peninsula. No extensive list of fossils of any of
the Tertiary formations of Lower California has heretofore
been published, and the fauna herein described extends our
knowledge of the Pliocene of western North America south-
ward.
The greater part of the material upon which this report is
based was obtained by the expedition of the California Acade-
my of Sciences to the Revillagigedo and Tres Marias Islands,
Mexico, in the early summer of 1925. The party spent three
days on Cedros Island, and two days at Turtle Bay. During
that time Dr. G. Dallas Hanna and the present senior author
made collections as complete as possible from the Pliocene
sediments that are exposed at these places.
The writers have also examined a small collection made on
Cedros Island and at Turtle Bay by Dr. Hanna in the course
of the expedition to Guadalupe Island in 1922.
During a recent geological investigation of Lower Cali-
fornia by the Marland Oil Company of California, Mr. B. F.
Hake made collections from the Pliocene beds in the general
region about Turtle Bay. Most of the material was deposited
at Leland Stanford Junior University by Mr. Carl H. Beal,
Chief Geologist of the company, and through his courtesy and
that of Dr. J. P. Smith, Professor of Paleontology at the
Leland Stanford Junior University, it has been available for
the present study*. Finally, in the collections of the California
Academy of Sciences, Leland Stanford Junior University, and
the University of California, there are a few specimens col-
lected on Cedros Island by Mr. Henry Hemphill and others.
These have been examined in the course of the work.
A few species have already been described or listed on the
basis of this material. From the fossils secured by Hanna on
'Cedros Island has been sometimes called "Cerros" Island.
' Also known as San Bartolome Bay, Bahia San Bartolo, and Bahia Tortuga.
«See Boletin del Petroleo, Vol. 17, No. 6, 1924, pp. 417-453; Vol. 18. No. 1, 1924,
pp. 14-53, for an account of the observations of the Marland Oil Company's geologists.
