Vol. XV] JORDAN & HERTLEIN— GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY 4I I
Cedros Island in 1922, Israelsky'' described three new species
of echinoids ; Hertlein** has already described or listed the pec-
tens from the collections made by Hake and Hanna in 1922.
Except for the information found in these two papers, and for
descriptions of a few species from Cedros Island by early
writers, the fauna of the Pliocene of this region has remained
unknown.
The geologic occurrence of the deposits at Cedros Island
and at Turtle Bay is briefly discussed in the present paper and
the known fossils are listed. The relations of the fauna to
those of Pliocene formations elsewhere are considered. Final-
ly, notes are included on many of the definitely recognized
species, and 10 new species are described.
The writers wish to acknowledge their indebtedness to Dr.
G. Dallas Hanna, Curator of Paleontology in the California
Academy of Sciences, for the collection of much of the ma-
terial upon which this report is based, for advice and assistance
in various ways during the preparation of the manuscript,
and for preparation of the illustrations. Acknowledgment is
due Mr. T. F. Stipp for assistance in the preparation of the
sketch map. They also wish to thank Mr. Carl H. Beal, of
the Marland Oil Company of California, for permission to
publish upon the collections made by geologists of that com-
pany; and Dr. J. P. Smith, of Leland Stanford Junior Uni-
versity, for permission to borrow these collections and for
helpful suggestions and criticism during the course of this
study; acknowledgment is due Dr. B. L. Clark, of the Uni-
versity of California, for opportunity to examine type speci-
mens in the collections of that institution.
Occurrence and Geology
The approximate position of the localities from which the
fossils described in this report were obtained is shown on the
accompanying sketch map (fig. 1). Limitation of time pre-
cluded any careful geological investigation by the senior
author at either Cedros Island or at Turtle Bay. It was for
the same reason impossible to cover any large area in collect-
»Univ. Cal. Pub. Geol., Vol. 14, No. 11, 1923, pp. 377-396.
• Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser., Vol. 14, No. 1, 192S, pp. 1-35.
