Vol. XV] JORDAN & HERTLEIN— GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY 413
of older sediments, and metamorphic rocks that compose the
core of the island.
The Tertiary strata dip in a general northerly direction di-
rectly toward the older rocks. On the south side of the block,
beneath the Tertiary beds, sandstones, conglomerates and
shales^ are exposed; these dip northward at a high angle.
Hanna has recorded the occurrence of Foraminifera, Inocera-
mus and Ammonites in the shale.
Unconformably overlying the older beds are several hun-
dred feet of sediments probably of Miocene age. At the base
is a layer containing bones of whales and other marine mam-
mals and sharks' teeth which can be identified with species
from the Miocene of California. A thin bed of gray siliceous
shale overlies the bed containing the vertebrate fossils. The
greater part of the Miocene which overlies the two beds just
described, consists of strata of nearly uniform, fine grained,
rather soft white sandstone, in all several hundred feet thick,
and as far as known, barren of recognizable megascopic fossils.
Several hundred feet of Pliocene sediments overlie the Mio-
cene series, probably unconformably". These consist of fairly
well consolidated sandstones and gravels in alternating layers
of varying thickness. The Pliocene series is extraordinarily
fossiliferous throughout, and, the preservation of certain
groups of fossils is everywhere excellent. The Pliocene sedi-
ments are more resistant to erosion than are the soft Miocene
beds. The higher parts of the area of Tertiary rocks are oc-
cupied by Pliocene and the Miocene-Pliocene contact is marked
by a steep escarpment.
About nine miles north of Bernstein's Camp, on and close to
the shore, and almost surrounded by older rocks, a small area
of Pliocene beds is exposed, similar to those at Bernstein's
camp. They are nearly flat lying and their occurrence at this
point may or may not be ascribed to faulting.
The stratigraphy at Turtle Bay is essentially similar to that
on Cedros Island. The oldest rocks exposed close to the bay
are conglomerates accompanied by less abundant sandstones
and shales, and the series may be several thousand feet in
•Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Sen, Vol. 15. No. 1, 1926, p. 86.
"Locality 928 (C. A. S.).
