414 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [PRoc. 4th Ser.
thickness. These beds stand at high angles and were mapped
by the Marland Oil Company geologists'^ as Eocene, the equiv-
alent of the Tepe Tate formation of the southern part of the
peninsula, but may be in part or all Cretaceous on the basis of
similarity of lithology and stratigraphic position to the Cre-
taceous beds on Cedros Island, as considered by Hanna^".
Miocene and Pliocene sediments occupy old embayments of
small size between low ranges of hills composed of Cretaceous
or Eocene rocks. The base of the Miocene series is a layer
containing bones and sharks' teeth, belonging to the species
Aetobatiis smithii Jordan & Beal, Carcharocles rectus Ag.,
Carcharhiiiiis antiquus Ag., Carcharodon sp., Hemipristis Jie-
teropleurus Ag., and I sums hasfalis Ag., and pectens which
are poorly preserved, but resemble P. andersoni Arnold. A
bed of white siliceous shale about 30 feet thick, overlies the
bone bed. The remainder of the series is soft fine grained
white sandstone, ash, and impure diatomite rich in fish scales
and in casts of foraminifera. The whole Miocene series is
several hundred feet thick, and the beds dip in a general
westerly direction at about 20°.
The Pliocene series at Turtle Bay'^ overlies the Miocene un-
conformably. The beds are almost horizontal, the prevailing
dip being very gently seaward. They consist of soft to mod-
erately indurated sandstones, abundantly fossiliferous through-
out. At the time of deposition these beds apparently con-
tained a large and varied molluscan fauna, but leaching, pre-
sumably a result, in part at least, of the desert conditions of
the region, has removed the shells of all but a few genera
leaving of the others only casts seldom specifically determin-
able. As on Cedros Island the Pliocene sediments are gen-
erally more resistant to erosion than is the Miocene material,
and the Pliocene stands up in prominent small mesas and hills.
The areal extent of neither the Miocene nor Pliocene beds
was determined in the Turtle Bay region. East of the bay,
mountains composed of conglomerates and sandstones of either
Cretaceous or Eocene age rise rather abruptly above the
younger sediments.
" Boletin del Petroleo, Vol. 18, No. 1, 1924. Map opposite p. S3.
" Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser., Vol. IS, No. 1, 1926, p. 86.
>* Localities 944 (C.A.S.), 945 (C.A.S.), 47 (L.S.J.U.), 49 (L.S.J.U.), 80 (L.S.J.U.).
