25 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
regretted that two or three weeks later we might not have
been able to make another visit for the benfit of the botanists —
desert plants, as a rule, respond very quickly to showers and
Guadalupe Island should be no exception in this respect.
We had fully intended to get under way at 5 :30 a. m., but
the north-north-west gale continued and we knew it was useless
to try to land on the elephant beach. Therefore, we remained
at anchor on good sand bottom at South Bay for most of the
day.
Messrs. Jordan, Duhem and I went with the skiff and de-
mountable engine along the eastern shore where we could
remain close in under the cliffs for protection from the wind.
Our object was the collecting of fishes and we were very suc-
cessful in this. Some taken were allied to genera found only
in tropical waters although the water at Guadalupe Island was
61° F.
We were on the way back to the anchorage when the
Ortolan was seen coming around one of the headlands, so
we joined her at sea and proceeded directly to Northeast
Anchorage. There we found the shore party on the beach
ready to come aboard. In rowing in for them I found it almost
impossible to make headway when a "will-a-waw" struck us.
Once the boat was spun around and headed in exactly the
opposite direction I wished to go and that against a back-
watered oar.
Messrs. Tose, Mason, Wright and Keifer had a hard trip
overland. They did not reach their objective, the cypress
grove on top of the island, owing to fog and rain, but chased
a dozen or more goats out of a lava cave and camped there
for the night. One of the animals furnished food and fuel
was secured from a nearby oak tree. Most of the night was
spent cooking goat meat, drinking tea and recalling the com-
forts of civilization, but they returned with an excellent col-
lection of birds, insects and plants. Among the latter were
some ferns and other species not previously recorded from the
island.
The anchor was dropped at Northeast Anchorage but it
would not hold the ship in the violent wind eddies, so we re-
turned to South Bay for the night.
