422 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Se«.
age and in fauna. Community of species between the various
localities is most striking and the collecting stations are in no
case separated by any very great distances. In the following
discussion the whole assemblage is treated as a unit.
This fauna is peculiar in that it consists of little more than
echinoderms, pectens and oysters; it contains few other pele-
cypods and few gastropods. Pectens were evidently exces-
sively abundant in Lower Californian waters in Pliocene time,
but the extreme predominence of that genus in the present
fauna may be to a considerable extent attributed to the destruc-
tion of the shells of many other forms by weathering in a
desert climate. In attempting a correlation of a fauna such as
this its incomplete nature must not be forgotten. It is an as-
semblage in which species of short range in geologic time,
abnormally predominate, and the percentage of living species
found is unreliable as an exact criterion for age determination.
Correlation rests chiefly on community of diagnostic species
with other known Pliocene formations.
The affinity of this fauna is wholly western North Ameri-
can. More than half of the species are common to the Plio-
cene of southern California ; the remainder are slightly more
tropical fomis, still living in western Mexican waters or known
only from the Pliocene of Lower California. No pronounced
similarity is shown to the Tertiary of the Caribbean or Peru-
vian provinces.
About 40 per cent of the species in the present list are
known to occur in the San Diego formation, as exposed in
Pliocene sands at Pacific Beach, near San Diego, California,
which lie upon the harder Eocene sandstones, shales and con-
glomerate with no evident discordance of dip and are uncon-
formably overlain by nearly horizontal soft Pleistocene sand,
boulders and shells.
The beds at Pacific Beach probably approximate in age the
lower part of the upper Pliocene, as has been stated by J. P.
Smith^\ Fewer species of the Lower California fauna are
found in the Saugus (Saugus of Hershey^^, and of Kew^^,
Ventura of Carson^*, upper Fernando of various authors) and
"Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser., Vol. 9, No. 4, 1919, pp. 149, 151, 152.
"Am. Geologist, Vol. 29, No. 6. 1902, pp. 359-362.
"Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 753, 1924, pp. 81-89.
»* Pan-American Geologist, Vol. 43, No. 4, 1925, pp. 269, 270.
