424 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
a whole. Hertlein*^ has listed pectens, probably of Pliocene
age, from various localities on the peninsula outside of the
present region. Deposits of this age are known to occur at
Santa Rosalia and at other points near the shores of the Gulf
of California; their fauna as far as known is somewhat differ-
ent from that found in the beds on Cedros Island and Turtle
Bay. E. K. Jordan & Hertlein*- recently described a small
Pliocene fauna from Maria IMadre Island, far to the south and
that asseml)lage shows affinities with the present one; it is not
older and may be slightly younger in age than the present
fauna. The Pliocene of Maria Madre Island is apparently
more closely related to the Pliocene of the Gulf of California
region.
Notes and Descriptions of Species
1. Astrodapsis israelskyi E. K. Jordan & Hertlein, new species
Plate XXVII, figures 4 and 6
Test small ; sui)circular to suboval in outline, not greatly
elev^ated. the upper surface rather flat ; margin thick, evenly
rounded and entire; apical system central, or slightly posterior,
the apex of the test slightly anterior to the center of the ma-
dreporic area; madreporic area pentagonal, with four genital
pores ; petals narrow, slightly elevated, widely open, and ex-
tending nearly to the margin ; rows of pores at first diverge,
then at about half the distance to the margin they converge
slightly, after which they continue toward the niargin parallel
or very slightly divergent ; outer row of pores more pro-
nouncedly sinuous than inner; interambulacral areas relatively
broad, little depressed, flat, sloping gently from the apex
toward the margin ; inferior surface concave toward the
center; mouth central, large, subpentagonal in outline; am-
bulacral furrows not distinct, but branching close to their
origin at the peristome and extending nearly to the margin;
periproct fairly large, situated on ventral surface and a little
less than its own diameter from the margin; tuberculation
prominent, the tubercles rather large and distantly spaced,
"Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser., Vol. 14, No. 1, 1925, pp. 1-35.
«Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser., Vol. 15. No. 4. 1926, pp. 209-217.
