Vol. XV] JORDAN & HERTLEIN— GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY 435
those on the inferior surface perhaps even more prominent
than those above. Anteroposterior diameter 37.5 mm.; trans
verse diameter 35.3 mm. ; greatest elevation 7.9 mm.
Type: No. 2086, paratypes, Nos. 2087, 2088, and 2089, Mus.
Cahf. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 928, Bernstein's abalone camp,
Cedros Island, Lower California; upper Pliocene ; G. D. Hanna
and E. K. Jordan collectors.
Four other specimens of this species were examined from
the same locality.
Astrodapsis israelskyi somewhat resembles A. fernandoensis
Pack, but lacks the very large tubercles that are characteristic
of Pack's species. It is close to Dendraster perrini Weaver,
but the apical system of the present species is central in the
type, and nearly central in all the other specimens, while in
D. perrini it is moderately eccentric.
The species is named in honor of Mr. Merle C. Israelsky, in
recognition of his work on echinoids.
2. Astrodapsis kewi E. K. Jordan & Hertlein, new species
Plate XXVII, figures 2 and 3
Test small, subcircular in outline, considerably elevated, the
margin thick, evenly rounded, and entire; apex distinctly an-
terior to and higher than center of apical system ; petals strong-
ly elevated, and extending about two-thirds of the distance to
the edge of the test, their extremities wide open; interam-
bulacral areas deeply sunken, depressed in a distinct median
trough ; apical system nearly central ; madreporic area pen-
tagonal, with four genital pores, the one opposite the posterior
interambulacral area absent; pores of petals conjugate, the
inner rows not converging very rapidly outward, the outer
rows converging more rapidly; anterior a little longer and
narrower than others ; inferior surface evenly concave ; mouth
subcentral, large, subpentagonal in outline ; ambulacral fur-
rows distinct, broad, branching at somewhat less than half the
distance outward to the margin, becoming obsolete as the mar-
gin is approached, periproct of moderate size, situated on the
under surface and distant from the margin about one and a
