426 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
half times its own diameter; tiiberciilation prominent, the tuber-
cles elevated, of several orders of magnitude, and the same on
both surfaces, except that the ambulacral furrows on the
lower surface are smooth. Anteroposterior diameter 31.6
mm.; transverse diameter 31.1 mm.; greatest elevation
8.3 mm.
Type: No. 2090, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 928 (C.
A. S. Coll.), Bernstein's abalone camp, Cedros Island, Lower
California; upper Pliocene; G. D. Hanna and E. K. Jordan
collectors.
Astrodapsis keivi is distinguished from what is apparently
its nearest relative, A. tumidus Remond of the upper San
Pablo Miocene of central California by the following charac-
ters : the petals in the present species do not extend to the mar-
gin of the test as they do in A. tumidus and the relief between
the crest of the petals and the bottom of the interambulacral
areas is greater in A. kezvi; the summit of A. kczii is consider-
ably anterior to the madreporite, rather than almost coinciding
as in A. tumidus; margins in A. kezvi are thicker than in A.
tumidus and are entire, rather than notched by the ends of the
ambulacral furrows. A. kezvi as a whole has a thicker and
more tumid test than has A. tumidus. D end raster arnoldi
Twitchell in some degree resembles this species, but it is dis-
tinguished by the excentricity of the apical system. A. kezvi
bears little resemblance to A. feniandoensis Pack, from the
lower Pliocene of southern California.
This species is named in honor of Dr. W. S. W. Kew, in
recognition of his masterly work on the fossil echinoids of
western North America.
3. Laqueus califomicus vancouveriensis Davidson
Plate XXVII, figure 7
Megerlia jeffreysi Dall, Sci. Res. Expl. Alaska, 1877. p. 48; Living, Van-
couver, Id., B. C.
Not Frenula jeffreysi Dall, Am. Nat., Vol. 5, 1871, p. 55 ; Living, north-
east Atlantic (=Macandrevia cranium Muller 1776).
Laqueus califomicus var. vancouveriensis Davidson, Trans. Linn. Soc
Lond., 2nd Sen. Vol. 4, 1887, p. 113, pi. 18, figs. 10, 11, 12, 13, 13a, 13b;
Living, off Lopez Id., Wash.
