Vol. XV] JORDAN & HERTLEIN— GEOLOGY AND. PALEONTOLOGY 43 ^
Six paratypes of P. hemphillii, out of the original lot from
Pacific Beach, near San Diego, have been examined in the
course of this work. On the basis of the previously enumer-
ated distinctions, certain of these specimens can be referred to
Ball's species, while others are unquestionably the P. bellus of
Conrad. One of the latter is herewith figured, together with
illustrations of two of our specimens from Cedros Island.
The type of P. hemphillii, as indicated by the illustration fur-
nished by Arnold, is an intermediate form not exactly similar
to either extreme of the series, although it inclines toward the
narrow-ribbed variants. In the original description of P.
hemphillii no reference was made to P. bellus, but a compari-
son was drawn with Pectcn stearnsii Dall, a quite different
form. There is, furthermore, neither stratigraphic nor geo-
graphic difference in the occurrence of the two extremes of the
series, and there is no doubt that they are specifically identical.
This species is excessively abundant in the Pliocene beds
near Bernstein's abalone camp on Cedros Island, and it also
occurs near Turtle Bay and Elephant Mesa. It is known from
the Santa Barbara, Saugus and San Diego upper Pliocene
formations, and from the Pico lower Pliocene formation of
southern California.
9. Pecten (Patinopecten) dilleri Dall
Plate XXX, figure 1
Pecten (Lyropecten) dilleri Dall, Nautilus, Vol. 14, No. 10, 1901, p. 117.
Pecten (Patinopecten) dilleri Dall, Arnold, Prof. Paper U. S. Geol. Surv.
47, 1906, p. 62, pi. 5, fig. 2.
The left valve of this species has hitherto not been illustrated
but the discovery of several in these collections enables us to
supply this deficiency. We have compared our specimens with
left valves from the lower Pliocene of the Santa Maria district
in California, where they are associated with right valves
which agree exactly with specimens from the type locality.
The left valve of P. dilleri is large, subcircular in outline,
and slightly arched. The anterior ear is rather sharply trun-
cated at the anterior margin, and is ornamented by about six
to eight radiating ribs which are crossed by concentric lines of
