432 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES tP«oc. 4th Sei.
growth and are roughened by raised scaly imbrications. The
posterior ear slopes slightly from the posterior dorsal margin
to the base; it bears about six radiating ribs and is otherwise
sculptured similar to the anterior ear.
The left valve bears about 27 or 28 slightly rounded, high,
prominent radiating ribs separated by interspaces that are a
little wider than the ribs. The tops of the ribs are ornamented
by strong, raised scaly concentric imbrications ; the sides of the
ribs and the interspaces are marked only by faint traces of
rather widely spaced concentric lamellae.
P. dilleri Dall is distinguished from P. purishn<rnsis Arnold
and from P. coosensis Shumard by having a larger number
of ribs which, in the left valve of Dall's species, are fairly large,
slightly rounded, and more distant than in the others. The
great prominence of the raised scaly imbrications on the ribs
is also characteristic of P. dilleri.
This species was found near Elephant Mesa, and has picvi-
ously been known from the Wildcat lower Pliocene of northern
California, and from the lower Pliocene of the Sant-i Maria
District, southern California.
10. Pecten (Lyropecten) cerrosensis Gabb
Plate XXXII, figure 4
Pcctcn cerrosensis Gabb, Geol. Surv. Cal. Pal., Vol. 2, 1869, p. 32, pi. 9,
figs. 55, 55a; "Miocene", Cerros Id.
Pecten (Lyropecten) ashleyi Arnold, Prof. Paper U. S. Geol. Surv. 47,
1906, p. 122, pi. 47, figs. 1, la, pi. 48, fig. 1 ; Pliocene, Cerros Id.
Not Pecten (Plagioctenium) cerrosensis Gabb, Arnold, Prof. Paper U. S.
Geol. Surv. 47, 1906, p. 123, pi. 44, fig. 5, pi. 49, figs. 1, la, lb.
Pecten (Plagioctcninin) cerrosensis Gabb, Hertlein, Proc. Calif. Acad.
Sci., 4th Sen, Vol. 14, No. 1, 1925, p. 15, pi. 6, fig. 1.
A comparison of the type specimens of P. cerrosensis Gabb
and P. ashleyi Arnold, both taken from the Pliocene beds on
Cedros Island, together with examination of a large number
of specimens in the present collection, leads the authors to the
conclusion that the two so-called species both clearly belong to
