Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 27
April 22 — The incessant wind continued unabated through-
out the night and on the morning of April 22 we gave up all
hope of being able to take the census of the elephant seals.
Landings were so very difficult to make, even on the lee shore
and travel to the highlands so nearly impossible that all of us
thought we would better proceed to the main objective of the
expedition, the Revillagigedo Islands. Therefore, at 10 a. m.
the ship was headed in the direction of Clarion Island 660
miles distant and the westernmost of the group. Guadalupe
Island was hardly out of sight when we entered calmer seas
and less wind; this seemed to indicate what we had already
come to suspect — that this huge volcanic mass rising from
deep waters is its own storm center.
April 2^ — We continued to take water and plankton samples
throughout the day as the ship proceeded southward. The
course was laid so that we would pass close by Alijos Rocks
and we expected to sight them at noon, but a low-hanging
haze prevented their being found before dark. The rocks
themselves are not high and therefore are not visible from any
great distance, but Captain Nelson was anxious to get a check
on his instruments and we were likewise anxious to investigate
the animal life about them. Therefore, after he had deter-
mined the position of the ship by star sights, we steamed
ahead slowly during the night.
Very little life of any kind was seen during the day. Two
blue-faced boobies, two petrels of some kind and some flying
fish comprised the total.
April 24 — Alijos Rocks were sighted at 6:30 a. m. and at
8 a.m. while the ship lay to, Messrs. Wright, Jordan and I
rowed in as close as we could safely, to make collections.
The group consists of three main rocks. North, South and
East, all volcanic in origin. All are pinnacles with vertical or
overhanging walls. North Rock is 72 feet high, slopes steeply
to the eastward on top, like a roof and is about 25 feet in
diameter.
South Rock, the largest of the group, is 112 feet high and
about 35 feet in diameter. It stands on five legs, the sea hav-
ing eaten away the remainder of the base. On the south side
