Vol. XV] JORDAN & HERTLEIN— GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY 433
the section Lyropecten and are identical. The name P. cer-
rosensis takes precedence by priority. The type of P. ashleyi
is sHghtly less globose than the type of P. cerroscnsis, the
latter has much less pronounced radial striations than those
that ornament the radial ribs of P. ashleyi and it lacks also the
pronounced sculpture present on the ears of P. ashleyi; but the
type of P. ccrrosensis is an exceptionally large and old speci-
men, and weathering apparently has obliterated much of the
finer ornamentation. The number of ribs on the two speci-
mens is the same. A study of other Lyropectens such as P.
estrcllaniis Conrad, which the young of P. cerrosensis closely
resemble, shows that species of the subgenus Lyropecten vary
greatly in globosity of valves, and in prominence of secondary
radial sculpture.
The fact that the type of P. cerrosensis has not until recently
been available for study, has, as pointed out by Hertlein, led
to considerable misunderstanding of the species. The type
specimen was not available at the time that Arnold described
P. ashleyi, and the concept arose that P. cerrosensis. Gabb
belonged to the section Plagioctenium rather than to Lyro-
pecten. As a result various species have been referred to P.
cerrosensis in literature and in collections, particularly P. hakei
Hertlein. P. subdohis Hertlein, P. callidus Hertlein, P. circti-
laris Sowerby {==P. subventricosus Dall). Most of the records
of P. cerrosensis from the Pliocene of southern California are
erroneous, but P. cerrosensis does occur in southern California
in some cases, in the form hitherto known as P. ashleyi
Arnold.
The original description of P. cerrosensis Gabb. together
with the description and figure of P. ashleyi Arnold fully define
the characters of the former. A young specimen of P. cerro-
sensis which resembles P. estrellanus Conrad, is herewith
figured.
P. cerrosensis has been found on Cedros Island at Locality
928 (C.A.S.). abundantly at Locality 946 (C.A.S.), and a
single valve was also discovered at Turtle Bay. It also occurs
in the San Diego formation of southern California.
July 22. 1926
