434 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Skr.
11. Pecten (Lyropecten) gallegosi E. K. Jordan & Hertlein,
new species
Plate XXIX, figure 1
Shell large, and of the same general outline as P. ccrroscnsis
Gabb, but flatter. Right valve ornamented by 21 to 23, narrow,
square, flat-topped and often T-rail shaped radiating ribs ; in-
terspaces flat-bottomed, with a well defined midrib, their bot-
toms and walls also finely, radially striate ; ribs and interspaces
crossed by concentric lines of growth ; anterior dorsal and
posterior dorsal margins of the valve bearing several sharp,
radiating riblets ; anterior ear large, with a well defined byssal
notch, the ear ornamented by six to eight strong, radiating
riblets which are crossed by lines of growth; posterior ear
smaller than anterior, and sloping obliquely, posteriorly and
downward from posterior termination of hinge line to edge of
disk, the ear sculptured by 10 to 12 sharp, strong, radiating
riblets crossed by growth lines. Height 125 mm. ; length 138
mm.; apical angle 116°. Left valve more highly arched than
right, and similarly sculptured ; at intervals every fifth rib is
slightly raised, as is the case on occasional specimens of P.
cerrosensis Gabb.
Type: Right valve, No. 2096, paratypcs No. 2097, 2098,
2099 and 2100, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 946 (C.A.S.
coll.), on shore nine miles north of Bernstein's abalone camp,
Cedros Island, Lower California; upper Pliocene; G. D.
Hanna and E. K. Jordan collectors.
Two other specimens from the same locality were examined ;
all agree substantially with the type.
It is recognized that intergradation may ultimately be
proved with P. cerrosensis Gabb, which itself is rather variable,
but the type and paratypes of P. gallegosi present such strik-
ing characters as to merit a separate designation. From P.
cerrosensis, the present form is distinguished mainly by having
a much flatter shell, and by a greater intensity of sculpture.
The slightly greater number of ribs, which are in nowise
rounded, the sharp riblets on the anterior dorsal and posterior
dorsal margins of the shell, and the strong sculpture on the
ears are distinguishing characters. From P. hakei Hertlein.
