Vol. XV] JORDAN & HERTLEIN— GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY 435
P. gallegosi differs in having the strong hinge teeth character-
istic of a Lyropecten, in the presence of a midrib between the
major radial ribs, and in other less important particulars.
This shell is named in honor of the late Professor Jose
Maria Gallegos, Explorer for the Departemento de Agricultura
y Fomento, Mexico, in recognition of his work so unfortunate-
ly terminated, on the preservation of the wild life of Lower
California.
12. Pecten (Aequipecten) percarus Hertlein
Pecten (Aequipecten) percarus Hertlein, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Sen,
Vol. 14, No. 1, 1925, p. 13, pi. 2, figs. 2. 5; Pliocene, Elephant Mesa,
Lower Calif.
The large size, subcircular form, flatness of the right valve,
and the number and even roundness of the radiating ribs
crossed by concentric growth lines distinguish adults of this
species from related forms. Very young examples are not
easily differentiated from the young of several species of Plagi-
octenium. Specimens of this species have been found on
Cedros Island, at Turtle Bay, and near Elephant Mesa.
13. Pecten (Leptopecten) praevalidus E. K. Jordan &
Hertlein, new species
Plate XXIX, figures 2, 3
Shell of moderate size, somewhat inflated, elongated pos-
teriorly giving an oblique outline, the hinge line four-fifths the
length of the shell. Right valve nearly flat, ornamented by
about 13 or 14 flat-topped radiating ribs which are often longi-
tudinally sculptured by one or two slight sulci ; ribs separated
by interspaces about as wide as the ribs, <^he bottoms of some
of the interspaces lightly, longitudinally striate; anterior ear
large, cut by a large byssal notch, and ornamented by four
or five radiating ribs crossed by concentric lines of growth ; left
ear larger than right, sloping acutely from hinge line to pos-
terior margin of shell, ornamented by six to nine unequal radi-
ating riblets. Left valve somewhat more arched than right, or-
namented bv 15 or 16 moderate] V rounded radiatin"^ ribs some
