Vol. XV] JORDAN & HERTLEIN— GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY 44^
the disk serve to separate the two species ; adults of both often
have more than three ribs on the ear.
The ribs ornamenting the right valve of P. hakei vary in
number from 24 to 27. These are rounded and are separated
by interspaces nearly as wide as the ribs, while in P. purpura-
ttis the ribs are flat-topped or almost T-rail shaped, and are set
close together, with narrow and deep interspaces. On un-
weathered specimens of P. hakei the ribs are seen to be later-
ally fringed by fine lamellae, but these are not as pronounced
as in P. purpuraUis.
This species was found on Cedros Island, at Turtle Bay,
and is known from other Pliocene localities to the south of the
present region in Lower California.
20. Pecten (Plagioctenium) invalidus Hanna
Pectcn (Plagiocteninm) cooperi Arnold, Prof. Paper 47, U. S. Geol. Surv.,
1906, p. 124, pi. 49, figs. 2-4. Pliocene, San Diego, Calif. Not Pecten
cooperi E. A. Smith, 1903.
Pecten mvalidus Hanna, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser., Vol. 13, No. 10,
1924, p. 177.
This species is distinguished from P. callidus Hertlein and
P. mendenhalli Arnold by its smaller size, usually moderately
arched umbo, and by its square ribs. In some of the specimens
referred to P. invalidus the ribs show a tendency to become
rounded in later stages of growth, while P. callidus always
possesses square ribs. The right valve of P. iiwalidus is more
symmetrical and not slightly attenuated toward the posterior
ventral margin as is usually shown in typical examples of P.
callidus. Young of P. invalidus show few positive characters
to differentiate them from several other forms; the adults,
however, can be recognized.
P. invalidus was found on Cedros Island, and at Turtle
Bay. It had previously been known from the San Diego upper
Pliocene of southern California, the Pliocene of Maria Madre
Island, Mexico, and from the Pliocene of the Cape and Gulf
of California regions of Lower California.
