446 CALIFORNIA ACADEMy OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Se«.
26. Epitonium cedrosensis E. K. Jordan & Hertlein,
new species
Plate XXX, figure 3
Shell small, broadly conic, solid; spire tiirrited, of five,
strongly convex, post nuclear whorls, the tip lost; sutures
deeply marked; varices 13 to 15, somewhat unequal, generally
strong, the tenninal varix and occasional scattered varices on
earlier whorls much stronger and thicker than others ; all
varices reflected, rounded on top, and thin edged, continuous
across the suture and encircling about half of the spire, each
bearing a small, broad but sharp spine at the shoulder ; inter-
costal spaces averaging one and one-third times as wide as the
varices, ornamented by about 30 subequal, rounded spiral
threads that are separated by rounded grooves about as wide
as the threads ; no basal disk, the base of the last whorl evenly
rounded, sculptured as are the whorls of the spire, the varices
continuous to the umbilical area ; umbilicus narrowly perfor-
ate; aperture ovate. Length 8.2 mm. ; width 4.34 mm.
Type: No. 2116, paratypes Nos. 2117, 2118, 2119, and 2120.
Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Loc. 928 (C.A.S. coll.), Bernstein's
abalone camp, Cedros Island, Lower California, upper Plio-
cene ; G. D. Hanna and E. K. Jordan collectors.
Seventeen other specimens of this species were exann'ned
from the tyi^e locality and one from locality 945.
This species belongs to the group of E. hellastriata Car-
penter, to which has been given the subgeneric designation of
Aspcriscala De Boury*". From the several previously known
species of the group, it is apparently well distinguished by the
number and character of the varices.
27. Epitonium contrerasi E. K. Jordan & Hertlein.
new species
Plate XXX, figure 4
Shell rather elongate conic, of moderate size, not very thick ;
spire of five moderately convex and slightly shouldered whorls,
the tip lost ; varices about ten, nearly equal, subequally spaced,
"See Dall. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol .53, 1917, p. 475.
