Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 3 J
place. This was soon after we had anchored and the party-
consisted of all of the scientific staff, except those to be men-
tioned later, and some of the members of the crew of the
Ortolan.
Sr. Gallegos and I were very anxious to learn if there be any
truth in the rumors we had received from time to time that
fur seals were found on Clarion Island. It seemed desirable
to investigate the matter as soon as possible after our arrival
so that in case none was found, this could not be attributed to
any disturbance caused by our presence. Therefore, we set
out as soon as the landing party was on shore, with Captain
Nelson, Chief Engineer Lot and Mr. Musser in the motor boat.
We went completely around the island on the trip and ex-
amined the shores from as close as it was feasible to go with
the boat. We never saw a seal of any kind, and no shore line
which appeared to be very favorable rookery ground exists on
the island. In view of the fact that no seals were seen at all
during our stay at Clarion, it seems safe to conclude that they
are absent.
It must not be assumed from this that our trip around the
island was lacking in interest. Several humpback whales were
seen at close range and hundreds of sharks and porpoises were
noted. About 30 green sea turtles were observed, two males
having been captured and put aboard the ship before we
started. These were later used for food but it must be said
that they did not appeal strongly to any of us. With a good
supply of fresh meat in the refrigerator and excellent fish
swarming all about, and to be had on a moment's notice, the
turtles were not needed and we molested them no more on
the trip.
Much of the way around the island we passed over growing
coral reefs and for several of us it was our first opportunity to
witness this magnificent sight. As usual the chief objects to
attract attention were the gaily colored fishes, moving jewels
in an azure sea. The Captain and Messrs. Lot and Musser
used the trolling lines until their hands were sore from pulling
in the fishes. Those most in evidence in the catch were two
species of caranx and a large speckled form allied to the bass.
