32 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
One of the caranx was a most brilliant blue trimmed with
lemon-yellow/
Passing close under the northern cliffs the Clarion Island
doves were often seen passing from point to point while high
up on the crags man-o-war birds and boobies were resting com-
placently. Occasionally a red-billed tropic bird would fly
swiftly overhead, the long streaming tail feathers so resem-
bling the ''marlin spike" that sailor-men call it ''bosun bird."
When the party assembled that night on board ship there
was much to be told of the experiences during the day. Those
on shore had the pleasant (or unpleasant) task of cutting trails
with machetes through the otherwise imj^enetrable thickets of
cactus and vines. A species of Opuntia similar to the com-
mon cactus known as "prickly pear" grows very luxuriantly
in a broad zone around the shore line and more or less in
patches to the top of the island. Intertwined in it everywhere
are dense growths of vines. We had been forewarned of this
condition, fortunately, and had provided long knives to aid in
making trails. But even with the best that could be done in
this line every one received many painful thorns before the
work on the island was finished.
Messrs. Mason and Solis returned to the landing heavily
laden with plants. They had found collecting exceptionally
good although it was very evident we were on hand during
the dry season. Very few annuals were to be had and the
most of the vegetation had the appearance of late fall in a
temperate climate. This condition indicated that August to
November would be the best months for a botanist to visit the
island.
Many of the perennial plants were in bloom, nevertheless.
One of the most conspicuous was a brilliant, blue morning-
glory which grew in greatest profusion. Three species of
beans were collected, one of which seemed to do so well in spite
of the dry season that it should prove a desirable addition to
the list of agricultural products in those sections where there
are pronounced wet and dry periods. Seeds of almost all
'At the time of writing, the collection of fishes has not been entirely identified;
therefore, I am not able to give names of species found. The reader who may be
interested in the subject is asked to consult the report on the fishes which is expected
to follow this without great delay.
