494 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Se«.
Ridgway, in one of Belding's articles based on the latter's
Lower California collections. The type was from San Jose
del Cabo, in the Cape district. It was stated that this specimen
agreed in certain respects with other western examples. There
was no intimation in that connection, however, that the birds
of the Cape district might differ in some degree from those of
the Pacific Coast district to the northward.
The materials now accessible in sufficient amount show that
there is a separately recognizable race of Blue-gray Gnat-
catcher resident in the restricted faunal area known as the
Cape San Lucas district of Lower California. The facts above
stated indicate that the name obsciira of Ridgway applies defi-
nitely to this Lower Californian race. As has been fully set
forth by numerous systematic students, most clearly by
Ridgway himself (1904, p. 720), the Blue-gray Gnatcatchers
of the "southwestern United States and contiguous parts of
northern Mexico" differ from the race of the eastern United
States. By the present interpretation, the birds of the west,
outside of the southern tip of Lower California, must be pro-
vided with a new name; and since in Ridgway 's synonymy
(loc. cit., pp. 721-722) there is no previous name available,
one may now be provided, as follows :
Polioptila caeriilea amoenissinia, new subspecies
Western Blue-gray Gnatcatcher
Type locality. — Pleasant Valley, 600 feet altitude, Mariposa
County, California.
Type. — Male adult, in full breeding plumage; No. 25813,
Mus, Vert. Zool. ; May 23, 1915 ; collected by J. Grinnell, orig.
No. 3173.
Diagnosis. — Similar to Polioptila caerulea caenilea (Lin-
naeus), of eastern North America, "but gray of upper parts
slightly duller, and black at base of inner web of outermost
rectrix more extended, usually showing beyond tip of under
tail-coverts" (as according to Ridgway, 1904, p. 720) ; similar
to P. c. ohscura Ridgway, of the Cape San Lucas region, but
wing and tail (especially the tail) longer, bill slightly slen-
