Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION
33
plants in fruit at the time of our visit were brought back for
study and experimentation.
Mr. Slevin found only two species of land reptiles on the
island, a snake and a lizard. He proceeded to make his col-
lection forthwith because, although both had been known be-
fore from a very few specimens, they were practically un-
represented in the museums of the world. He wished to se-
cure enough to supply this deficiency, at least in part.
One question every one asked but no one could answer was :
"How did the snake and lizard ever get to Clarion in the first
place?" The original stock could not possibly have gotten
there by swimming the 500 or more miles of intervening water
to the mainland. It seems equally incredible that they could
have lived on a floating object long enough to have made the
passage. That they were introduced by man is unthinkable;
there is too much other life in the same category. No bird
would be likely to carry these reptiles as passengers. The
most plausible suggestion we heard made was that when they
arrived there was intervening land where there is water now.
This theory is not in conflict with the known geologic data.
No mammals of any kind were found on the island. For-
tunately, the place has never been inhabited, even by temporary
residents; hence those curses of isles to the northward, mice,
cats and goats, have not become established. In fact, Clarion
Island is one of the few places remaining which has not been
modified in some way through the agency of man. The ori-
ginal "balance of nature" still obtains. We know of only one
case of the introduction of any kind of life. In 1903 the Cali-
fornia Academy of Sciences sent an expedition to these islands
and during the course of work on Socorro Island some paro-
quets were captured alive. Mr. E. W. GifYord, a member of
the expedition, told us that some of these birds were liberated
on Clarion Island. We saw no sign of them during our stay
and it is supposed that they perished through lack of fruit
which constitutes their chief food on their native island.
Mr. Keifer took a great many insects during the day on
shore and there is little doubt that most of the species will be
found to be new to science. He is the first entomologist ever
to set foot on the island.
March 30, 1926
