Vol. XV] GRUNSKY— PRESIDENT'S REPORT FOR 1926 599
The Academy's mortgage loan has been further reduced
during the past year by $10,000, leaving $225,000, as above
noted, still due.
Mr. Joseph R. Slevin, Assistant Curator of the Department
of Herpetology, visited Guatemala last summer where he re-
mained several months and made important collections in the
coast and high mountain regions. This collected material is
particularly rich in the high mountain forms of salamanders
and small snakes, aggregating 2277 specimens.
No important explorations were undertaken by the other
departments, the curators and assistants devoting themselves
to the study and arrangement of their collections and to the
preparation of reports, some of which have already appeared
in the Proceedings.
In addition to the Grizzly Bear Group which was re-
arranged, Mr. Frank Tose, the Academy's taxidermist, has
prepared and installed the following small groups during
1926:
Redwood Weasel, Mountain Quail, and Mendocino Fly-
ing Squirrel, entirely new.
Tahoe Chipmunk and California Ground Squirrel re-
arranged by Mr. Tose.
Having been commissioned by the Council to study methods
of preparation, installation, lighting, etc., as practised in the
best eastern museums, Mr. Tose made a tour of the East in
September and October. His observations will be reflected in
his future work for the Academy.
On October 9, 1926, Director Evermann left for an ex-
tended tour of eastern museums and aquariums. Dr. Ever-
mann's sojourn of about two months in the east will result in
great benefit to the Museum and to the Steinhart Aquarium.
Many important additions have been made to the library of
rare and much needed scientific works, there having been a
larger budget allowance made for the purpose than ordinary.
Early in 1926, Mr. Ogden Mills added $2,000 to former
donations for the rehabilitation of the Grizzly Bear Group,
making a total of $8,000 contributed by Mr. Mills for the in-
stallation of this group. The background painted by Captain
Charles Bradford Hudson and the taxidermy and general
