512 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
ployed in the same capacity from August 25 to October 9.
Miss Clara Tose was employed as a temporary assistant in the
Department of Botany and elsewhere at intervals in January,
February, July and August.
The employes of the Museum January 1, 1927, were as fol-
lows : Dr. Barton Warren Evermann, Director and Execu-
tive Curator of the Museum, Editor of the Academy publica-
tions, and Director of the Steinhart Aquarium; W. W. Sar-
geant, Secretary to the Board of Trustees; Miss Susie Peers,
Secretary to the Director; Joseph W. Hobson, Recording
Secretary; Mrs. Constance W. Campbell, office assistant, part
time; Raymond L. Smith, office assistant; Miss Mabel E.
Phillips, check-room attendant; Miss Alice Eastwood, Curator,
and Mrs. Kate E. Phelps, assistant, Department of Botany;
Edward P. Van Duzee, Curator, Dr. F. R. Cole, Associate
Curator in Dipterology, Hartford H. Keifer, Assistant Cura-
tor, and J. O. Martin, temporary assistant, Department of
Entomology; Barton Warren Evermann, Curator, and H.
Walton Clark, Assistant Curator, Department of Fishes;
Joseph R. Slevin, Assistant Curator, Department of Herpe-
tology ; Dr. G. Dallas Hanna, Curator, and Leo George Hert-
lein. Assistant Curator, Department of Paleontology; Joseph
Mailliard, Curator, and Miss Mary E. McLellan, Assistant
Curator, Department of Ornithology and Mammalogy; Dr.
Walter K. Fisher, Curator, Department of Invertebrate Zool-
ogy; Joseph Mailliard, Chief of Exhibits; Frank Tose, Chief
Taxidermist ; Russell Hendricks and Cecil Tose, temporary
assistants, Department of Exhibits; Edward P. Van Duzee,
Assistant Librarian ; C. A. Bellas, Library assistant ; Miss
Lucie Hicks, Library assistant ; Wm. C. Lewis, Janitor ; Hugh
Jones, assistant janitor; Mrs. Johanna E. Wilkens, char-
woman ; Patrick O'Brien, day watch ; Archie McCarte, night
watch.
Accessions to the Museum and Library
Many valuable accessions to the Museum, Library and
Aquarium have been received within the year. An itemized
list will be found in the files of the Academy.
