34 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Mr. Jordan worked along shore, about the lava cliffs and on
the coral reef. A large collection of mollusks, some fishes and
other life was the result. Messrs. Tose and Wright found
many birds to interest them. The resident forms of land birds
are a species of wren, a ground owl, a dove and a raven.
Brewster's and blue-faced boobies nest in large numbers and
red-billed tropic birds are present but not common. The man-
o-war birds were found resting on the cliffs and in the canons
in large numbers but no nests were observed during our stay.
Turnstones, curlews and wandering tattlers, all migrants, were
collected and Mr. Tose saw a single western gull.
Huge ocean swells whipping around both ends of the island
made disembarking from the rock wall very difficult and in
getting aboard the skiff, Mr. Wright dropped his shotgun
overboard. Efforts of Mr. Duheni to recover it by diving were
unsuccessful and it was feared that this serious loss at the be-
ginning of the trip would be a great handicap. But next day
Captain Nelson, always resourceful, got out a diving apparatus
which was carried aboard the Ortolan and the bosun's mate
went down safely and recovered the gun. It apparently suf-
fered no injury.
April 2y — Most of the party worked on shore in spite of the
fact that a greatly increased sea made landing very difficult.
Mr. Mason covered the west end of the island pretty well and
collected about 60 sj^ecies of plants. He went to the top of
Mt. Gallegos, the highest point on the island (1100 feet), but
found practically the same character of vegetation there as at
sea level. There are evidently no altitude zones of life on
Clarion.
The island is about five miles long, two miles wide and is
divided by passes into three separate hills. All rocks and cliffs
seen are volcanic. The hills are rounded by erosion and there
are few cafions worth noting. Over most of the island there
is deep reddish brown soil, all indicating a very considerable
geologic age. In gathering trash from beneath the bushes to
be brought back to the museum for the purpose of picking out
the land shells, a few fragments of fossil-bearing rock were
unwittingly collected. The matrix has the appearance of a
hard, calcareous clay-shale and it is believed from this and the
