Vol. XV] EVERMANN— DIRECTOR'S REPORT FOR 19^6 ^\y
types of as many as possible of the species originally described
from those localities. In this she was fairly successful. The
growth of the herbarium has been very satisfactory. The
total number of mounted sheets is now 143,566.
Exhibits. — Perhaps the most important event in the year
in the Department of Exhibits was the rearrangement of the
Grizzly Bear group, including the painting by Captain Charles
Bradford Hudson of a new background.
The group now shows a scene on Jackson Lake, Wyoming,
with the Grand Teton in the background. The foreground,
including the animals and the accessories, has been rear-
ranged. This and the new background have greatly improved
this really wonderful group.
Another important event in connection with this depart-
ment was the visit of Mr. Tose to many of the museums in
the East in September and October for the purpose of study-
ing the latest developments in the preparation, installation and
lighting of habitat groups and other exhibits. It is believed
the information and knowledge acquired by Mr. Tose on this
trip will prove very useful in his work for the Academy.
Three new panel groups were installed by Mr. Tose in the
3Tar; they are the Redwood Weasel, the Mountain Quail, and
the Mendocino Flying Squirrel, all very interesting groups.
The total number of habitat groups now completed is 52,
of which there are in the Mammal Hall 11 large, four inter-
mediate, and 18 small panel groups; in the Bird Hall, six
large and 12 small panel groups; and in the Aquarium, one
large group, as shown in the following list in which the names
of the large groups are printed in CAPITALS, the inter-
mediate groups in italics, ^ and the small panel groups in
roman :
California Mammal HalP —
1-Desert Wood Rat 6-Redwood Brush Rabbit
2-ROOSEVELT ELK 7-Mountain Beaver
3-Western Bushy-tail Wood Rat 8-NORTHERN BLACK- TAIL
4- Yellow-bellied Marmot DEER
5-SAN JOAQUIN VALLEY 9-Desert Antelope Ground
ELK Squirrel
* The groups are listed in order beginning with the first at the right as one enters
the hall.
March 31, 1927
