Vol. XV] EVERMANN— DIRECTOR'S REPORT FOR 1926 5^9
Herpetology. — The most important event in 1926 in con-
nection with the Department of Herpetology, was the expedi-
tion to Guatemala by Joseph R. Slevin, the Assistant Curator.
Mr. Slevin sailed from San Francisco April 17 and landed
April 28 at Port of San Jose de Guatemala, whence he pro-
ceeded to Samayac and other points in the interior, where he
devoted about five months to field collecting and observations,
returning to San Francisco September 8.
The collection obtained contains 2277 specimens of rep-
tiles and amphibians and is one of the most valuable that has
ever been secured in that country. It is particularly rich in
high mountain species of salamanders, and in many species of
snakes not previously collected by the department. Through
the courtesy of Captain H. W. Rhodes, Superintendent of
Lighthouses, 18th Lighthouse District, Mr. Slevin visited
the Farallon Islands October 15, and obtained a large series
of the interesting salamander (Aneides luguhris faralloneiisis)
which is known only from those islands.
Library. — The growth of the Library during the year has
been satisfactory. The total number of accessions was 2541.
A somewhat larger appropriation for library purposes made
it possible for the various departments to purchase a number
of technical publications, some of them quite expensive,
much needed in the research work of the Museum.
Ornithology and Mammalogy. — The Department of Ornith-
ology and Mammalogy carried on field work in Trinity, Hum-
boldt, Mendocino, Modoc and Placer counties, California,
which added much to our knowledge of the mammal and
bird faunas of those parts of the state and many specimens
of birds and mammals to the Academy's collections.
The Curator and Assistant Curator of this department were
active during the year in research work on the collections.
The Curator, Mr. Mailliard, was assisted in field work at in-
tervals by various temporary assistants, including Raleigh A.
Borrell, Raymond M. Gilmore and Paul F. Covel.
Paleontology. — The Department of Paleontology was active
during the year in arranging and caring for the collections,
in carrying on research work, and in field investigations. The
