Vol. XV] EVERM ANN— DIRECTOR'S REPORT FOR 1926 523
Van Duzee, Edward P.
1. Annual Report of the Department of Entomology for 1925.
<Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser., Vol. XIV, No. 20, pp.
538-539, April, 28, 1926.
2. Note on Labops burmeisteri Stal. < Pan-Pacific Entomologist,
Vol. II, p. 163, April, 1926.
3. An Entomological Code. < Pan- Pacific Entomologist, Vol. II,
pp. 214-215, April, 1926.
4. Typhlocyba vs. Eupteryx. < Pan-Pacific Entomologist, Vol.
Ill, pp. 45-46, July, 1926.
Acknowledgments
An unusual number of courtesies of one kind or another
have been shown the Academy by many individuals and by
various institutions. Space does not permit specific mention
of all, but the Academy is grateful to all who have shown
interest in its work or who have helped it in any way.
First of all must be mentioned those who have contributed
to the educational activities of the Academy by giving one or
more lectures in our Sunday afternoon and Wednesday eve-
ning lecture courses. The Academy's thanks are due also to
each of those who have donated specimens to the Museum or
the Aquarium or books to the library.
Special acknowledgment must be made of the Academy's
appreciation of the deep interest which the Southern Pacific
Company, the Atchison Topeka, and Santa Fe Railway
System, the Matson Navigation Company, and the Los An-
geles Steamship Company have shown in the scientific and
educational activities of the Academy. Each of these com-
panies has extended many courtesies to members of the staflf
and has rendered valuable assistance in connection with the
field work of the Museum and the Aquarium. Through their
cooperation the Museum and Aquarium collections have been
materially increased in number and value.
The Academy is also deeply grateful to Senor Juan Zenon
Posadas of Guatemala for many courtesies extended to Mr.
Slevin while collecting reptiles and amphibians in that country
in 1926. Mr. L. M. Klauber of the San Diego Zoological
Park and Mr. Richard P. Ervv^in of Boise, Idaho, have shown
the Academy many courtesies, including tlie donation of valu-
able specimens.
