524 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Thanks are due also to Captain H. \V. Rhodes, Superin-
tendent of the 18th Lighthouse district, who kindly arranged
for a visit to the Farallon Islands of a number of the Museum
staff for the purpose of securing specimens of the plants and
of the rare salamander found there. Mention must be made
also of the valuable services of Mr. Walter M. Giffard of
Honolulu in securing, through Attorney E. K. Taylor of Ala-
meda the large Koebele collection of insects containing about
100,000 specimens. This collection was donated to the Acad-
emy by the widow of Dr. Koebele, Mrs. Fanny Koebele, now
of Waldkirch, Germany, to whom grateful acknowledgment
is made.
The Academy's grateful thanks are due to Mr. B. Preston
Clark of Boston for the donation of a splendid series of hawk-
moths numbering 567 specimens purchased by Mr. Clark in
England. Many other valuable donations have been made
to the Museum and Aquarium which are acknowledged in
the various departmental reports.
Special mention must be made of the splendid cooperation
and assistance rendered by Mr. W. H. Shebley, in charge of
fish culture of the California State Fish and Game Commis-
sion, and other officials of the Commission, in connection with
the Aquarium. They are always ready and willing to assist
us in securing live fishes for our exhibits.
Needs of the Museum
I feel that it is my duty again to call attention to a few of
the more urgent needs of the Museum. The greatest and
most pressing need is that of additional room for new ex-
hibits, for our educational activities, for our rapidly growing
research collections, and for library purposes. Each of the
three public halls of the Museum is already congested. Sev-
eral exhibits in each do not properly belong there but are there
because there is no other place to put them. Each of the
departments of botany, entomology, herpetology and paleon-
tology has material that would make excellent public exhibits
if there only were suitable halls in which to display them.
Among other very instructive exhibits which can be promptly
installed when space becomes available may be mentioned the
following: 1. An exhibit showing the different fur-bearing
