Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITIOX 35
few fossils taken that the rocks are at least as old as Pliocene.
The specimens were obtained on the sloping- land immediately
back of the landing place where all exposed rocks are volcanic.
The largest bushes are not over 15 feet high. Scattered
among the cactus and vine-tangles there is a stiff bush with
excessively strong, sharp, hooked spines. This gave consider-
able difficulty in getting about. A species of Euphorbia grows
in thickets and in these the Webster's boobies build their nests.
Mr. Duhem and I visited one of these colonies and took a series
of pictures. Some of the nests had fresh eggs, others young
birds. One egg is a full set. The birds of the previous year
were abundant on the rookery.
The blue-faced booby was found in considerable numbers
but does not colonize. The individual nests were found here
and there on the ground and usually contained two eggs each.
Many had hatched and a few of the birds were almost half
grown. Mr. Tose assisted by Mr. Lot, the chief engineer,
took about thirty sets of eggs of each of the species of booby.
Doves were very abundant but showed no sign of nesting.
Several of the birds w^ere captured alive. The wrens were rather
scarce and the only nest found had four half-grown young.
An open nest which was rather common in the bushes looked
very much like that of a towhee or large sparrow. We know
of no bird from Clarion which could possibly have made such
a nest. The builders certainly must have migrated at the time.
One of the most interesting birds studied was the little
ground or burrowing owl. They were found in considerable
numbers beneath the tangles of vines and cactus. Usually one
or two or an entire family would be standing nonchalantly
about the entrance to the burrow. The smallest ones were
well able to fly, so the nesting season was evidently long since
past. Several of the burrows were excavated for eggs but
without success, much to our regret.
The presence of this owl on this far distant island was the
cause of considerable speculation. I believe it has l)een called
the same species that lives in Lower California where the food
normally is small mammals, in part at least. But here we saw
no evidence that any thing but insects had been eaten.
Ravens were common everywhere and their nests were
found in the cliffs. Messrs. IMason, Keifer, and Musser the
