528 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Skr.
It would seem that there should be among* the many friends
of the Academy or other public-spirited citizens, a number
of people to whom one or another of these opportunities would
make a strong appeal.
Department Reports
Department of Botany
During the year 1926 about 5000 mounted sheets of specimens were
added to the herbarium, making a total of 143,566. There are besides
these the collections (not yet mounted) from the Academy's expedition
to the Revillagigedo and Tres Marias islands in 1925 which are still un-
listed and unlabelled by the collector, Mr. Mason, besides a great many
duplicates to be used in exchanges.
The Curator made several short trips chiefly to type localities and suc-
ceeded in securing topotypes of a number of species and collected altogether
650 specimens, besides many duplicates. Collections were made in San
Luis Obispo County at Cambria, Cholame, Paso Robles, and Avila; in
Santa Barbara County at Santa Barbara, Lompoc and Surf; in Kern
County at Poso Creek near Bakersfield; in Fresno County at Coalinga,
Alcalde and old Fort Miller at Friant; and in Monterey County at the
Big Sur. Some specimens were added from San Francisco, Marin County
and the Farallons.
Several important collections were received in exchange: 87 sheets
from the New York Botanical Garden, Bronx Park, New York, chiefly
Atlantic coast species; 186 from the University of Asia Minor, Taschkent,
Turkestan, 13 genera and 185 being new to our collection; 293 from
Pomona College, Claremont, California, chiefly duplicates from the
Marcus E. Jones herbarium; and a set of 125 from the University of Cali-
fornia, mainly Californian plants.
Mr. George Haley made important collections in Alaska, adding 436
specimens collected at Nome, Ketchikan and the following islands: St.
Lawrence, Panak, Unalaska, Unimak, Kodiak, Sitka and some of the
Shumagin Islands. In the collection were several topotypes. Half his
expenses were paid by the Academy which received the entire collection.
The following collections were purchased: The A. D. E. Elmer Pacific
Coast herbarium, consisting of 436 specimens, some of them probably
the types of some of the many species named by him; 363 southern Oregon
specimens from L. F. Henderson, University of Oregon, Eugene; 200 Mt.
Rainier plants from the University of Washington, Seattle; 106 Texas
plants, from Frank C. Seymour, Waltham, Mass., collected along the
Gulf of Mexico; 2i2)i Mexican plants collected by and purchased from
Inez Mexia, San Francisco, collected chiefly in the mountains near
Mazatlan, of which many are still unnamed but among those named are
7 genera and 90 species new to our collection; 250 Chilian plants from Dr.
E. Werdermann, an authority on the flora of Chile, adding 13 genera and
183 species; a set of 100 lichens from G. K. Merrill, Rockland, Maine, who
