Vol. XV] EVERMANN— DIRECTOR'S REPORT FOR 1926 ^29
is one of the authorities on this group, and of these 11 genera and 61
species were new to our collection.
The most important donations are as follows, almost all sent for identi-
fication: 124 Cecil Hart, Los Angeles; 148 E. Roy Weston, Bakersfield,
from Kern County mountains and deserts; 44 Mrs. G. Earle Kelly,
Alameda, southern California deserts; 56 Idaho, from Mrs. Rose Donaghe,
Pocatello, Idaho; 96 San Luis Obispo and Monterej' counties, from Chester
Dudley of the U. S. Forest Service; 44 Tahoe Forest Reserve from L. S.
Smith of the U. S. Forest Service; 46 from Ynes Me.xia collected on Loma
Prieta, Santa Cruz Mountains; 295 exotics collected chiefly in southern
California by Eric Walther of Golden Gate Park to whom we are in-
debted for the greater part of our specimens of the exotics cultivated in
the gardens throughout California; 107 from Milo S. Baker, collected on
Mt. Rainier, southern Oregon and northern California. Smaller collec-
tions came in from 45 different correspondents whose names will appear in
the general list of donors.
In continuation of exchange, duplicates have been sent to the following:
4 to Dr. Harold St. John, Agricultural College, Pullman, Wash.; 10 to
Dr. J. Burt Davy, Imperial Forestry Institute, Oxford, England; 216 to
the Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica Plain, Mass.; 23 to the National Herb-
arium, Washington, D. C; 45 to the Botanic Garden, Sydney, Australia;
122 to the Royal Botanic Garden, Kew, England; 215 to the University of
Asia Minor, Taschkent, Turkestan.
The collection of the exotics cultivated in California is constantly in-
creasing. Specimens come in from all over the state for identification,
and as the specimens are frequently incomplete and the native land un-
known, it often takes much time for a satisfactory determination. Our
herbarium is unexcelled in its collection of exotics and is the most cos-
mopolitan herbarium west of the Mississippi.
The Curator continues to give popular addresses to schools and clubs
on botanical subjects and conservation and on some Sundays accompanies
different clubs on excursions to interest the members in the native plants.
The California Botanical Club which numbers 80 members holds weekly
meetings or excursions except during the absence of the Curator. The class
of gardeners meets twice monthly almost throughout the year in the herb-
arium Thursday evenings to enable the ambitious men to obtain a knowl-
edge of the plants cultivated in the park.
The flower show that continues throughout the year in the vestibule of
the Museum is an interesting and instructive feature of the museum.
Hundreds of species both native and exotic are on exhibition at different
times in the year, labelled with scientific and common name, if there is
one, and the native home. My assistant, besides her regular herbarium
duties, has taken charge of this during the past year and the exhibit is
always most attractive. Friends throughout the state send in flowers
occasionally and Mrs. E. C. Sutliffe brings in flowers every week during
the flowering season, while Eric Walther keeps up the supply of plants
from the park.
Two collections of wild flower pictures have been properly installed in
the Bird Hall of the museum, both donated by the California Botanical
