530 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Club. One is the collection of 480 pictures of Californian wild flowers so
beautifully photographed and colored by Antone J. Soares and the other
a collection of colored lithographs of New York flowers which were
published by the State Museum of New York at Albany. They form a
most interesting exhibit and are instructive as well as beautiful.
My assistant, Mrs. George H. Phelps, has been most efficient and faith-
ful, attending to the mounting of the accessions, looking after the drying
of the fresh specimens that continually come in, putting the mounted
specimens into their proper places after distribution into families, looking
after the flower show and many other duties that are continually arising
in a growing herbarium.
Alice Eastwood, Curator.
Department of Entomology
The acquisition of the Koebele Collection and the sustained growth of the
general collection of insects, including some gifts of exceptional value, have
marked the year's growth in this department.
For the securing of the Koebele Collection, the Academy is directly
indebted to Mr. Walter M. Giffard of Honolulu. During the years Mr.
and Mrs. Koebele were detained in Germany by war conditions, Mr.
Giffard took charge of this collection and protected it from destruction
by insect pests. After the death of Mr. Koebele it was through his
suggestion, and the cooperation of Mr. E. K. Taylor of Alameda, that it
was finally placed in the care of the Academy. During the past summer it
was formally presented to the Academy by Mrs. Koebele as a memorial
to her late husband, under practically the same conditions as those under
which the Van Dyke, Van Duzee and Blaisdell collections came to the
Academy. Mr. Giffard is to retain the parasitic Hymenoptera and Cocci-
nellidae or "lady beetles," and a few other restricted groups of insects
that are of special interest to the Hawaiian entomologists; the great
bulk of the material, however, comes to the Academy, making this one of
the most valuable single units thus far added to its collection of insects.
The Koebele collection, estimated to contain 100,000 specimens, was
accumulated during many years of active field work while Mr. Albert
Koebele was carrying on investigations for the State of California, the
U. S. Department of Agriculture, and the Hawaiian Sugar Planters Asso-
ciation. The field work undertaken by Mr. Koebele was primarily
the discovery and introduction of parasitic and predacious insects to prey
upon certain injurious species that from time to time became so destructive
as seriously to menace important agricultural interests. Mr. Koebele and
those collaborating with him really established the possibility and value of
biological control of injurious insects. Their greatest triumphs were the
control of the cottony cushion scale that had threatened the destruction
of the citrus industry of California, and the sugar cane leaf hopper that
had proved equally destructive to the sugar industry of the Hawaiian
Islands. In the prosecution of this and similar work Mr. Koebele travelled
widely through Japan, China, Australia and other oriental countries, and
in Florida, Arizona, and Mexico on this continent, and wherever he went
