Vol. XV] EVERM ANN— DIRECTOR'S REPORT FOR 1926 53]^
he was able to add something of value to his collection of insects. Of most
value to the Academy is his material in the Coccidae and the moths, both
of which groups are very fully represented in the Koebele collection, and
will go far toward giving the Academy a good working series in these
groups.
Another gift of unusual value to the Academy is a series of hawkmoths
presented by Mr. B. Preston Clark of Boston, Mass. The 567 specimens
in this series of large showy moths represent 265 species from all parts of
the world, some of them of great rarity. They form one of the most
interesting elements of the Academy collection of insects. Special mention
should also be made of a collection of about 3000 English insects, made by
Mr. C. L. Fox during a three months' visit to his native town of Plymouth,
and neighboring parts of England. Of this number, 300 were named
species presented by Mr, C. R. L. Perkins and Mr. J. H. Keys. It is a
great advantage to our students to have determined European insects
for comparison while studying our local forms, so this English collection
is most acceptable. During the summer of 1926 Dr. E. C. Van Dyke
spent two months collecting in the high mountains of Colorado. The
beetles, of which there were 5165 specimens, have been incorporated into
the Van Dyke collection of Coleoptera, already a most important unit of
the Academy collection. Dr. Van Dyke has also presented to the Academy
the miscellaneous insects of other orders, numbering 2837 specimens, taken
by him on this Colorado trip. Other interesting additions to the Academy
collection are 1338 specimens taken by Mr. J. R. Slevin in Guatamala,
a most valuable addition; 1171 specimens taken by Mr. J. O. Martin in
the White Mountains of Inyo County, California; 889 taken by Dr. Ernest
Nast on a trip to Idaho and Montana, including many species new to the
Academy collection; 857 taken by Mr; Clifford Dodds in southern Cali-
fornia; 639 taken by Mr. A. Christoffersen in Alaska; 448 taken by Mr.
W. M. Giffard in various parts of California; 430 taken by Mr. Louis S.
Slevin at Carmel, California, including some very rare moths; 288 taken
by Mr. M. C. Van Duzee at Mill Valley and about Buffalo, N. Y., and 240
presented by Mrs. H. E. Ricksecker. Smaller but valuable additions were
made by E. R. Leach, J. T. Lamiman, G. D. Hanna, J. A. Kusche, Barton
Warren Evermann, Ralph Hopping, Eric Walther, G. R. Wilson, G. P.
Rixford, Otto Swezey, W. W. Jones, S. E. Flanders and J. E. Cottle. Prof.
P. H. Timberlake gave us some interesting bees of the genus Perdita,
including a number of paratypes; Mr. R. D. Hartmann a paratype of the
very rare Trachykele hartmanni, and Mr. H. E. Burke a pair of another
rare beetle, Buprestis fremonli.
Of the purchases the most interesting was a collection of 2426 insects
from Che-Chiang Province, China, gathered by Mrs. Dora E. Wright,
and 2400 from Fu-Chow, China, from Mr. C. R. Kellogg. These, together
with the large collection made by Dr. E. C. Van Dyke in 1923 and presented
to the Academy in 1924, give us a very good representation of the insects
of that country.
No extended collecting trips were undertaken by the Department of
Entomology in 1926, so the total additions by field work numbered but
4721. A part of these were taken by the curator in a four days' trip to
/^/o'^^^ •"
tu- .. s 3 R A R Vj
