532
CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Lake County, California, as the guest of Dr. Ernest Nast, a part were
taken by Mr. H. H. Keifer during a short vacation spent at Oroville,
California, the balance being taken on week-ends about the Bay region.
The total additions to the department collections during 1926 numbered
25,818 specimens, exclusive of the Koebele collection.
It is a pleasure to acknowledge the continued assistance received from
Dr. Wm. Barnes, of Decatur, Illinois, who has most generously allowed
his taxonomist, Mr. F. H. Benjamin, to study and determine many boxes
of moths for us, a task Mr. Benjamin has most courteously performed, and
has already added about 200 species of moths to the Academy collection
from his duplicate material. Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell has continued his
study of our bees; Prof. H. C. Fall has worked up for us the Chrysomelidae
of the Gulf of California expedition; Mr. M. C. Van Duzee worked part
time for a while in the spring, on the determination of certain families of
Diptera that had not been studied by Mr. Cole; and Mr. T. H. Prison of
the Illinois State Natural History Survey has worked up our entire col-
lection of bumblebees. Reports on these studies will soon be published by
the Academy.
During the past year the curator has had the faithful and efficient help
of Mr. H. H. Keifer in the preparation and labelling of the material that
has come in, and without which it would have been impossible to have
kept up with the rapid growth of the department. In addition to this
Mr. Keifer has begun the development of a collection of microlepidoptera
for the Academy, partly through the incorporation of material already in
the museum but mostly by collecting and breeding out our local forms.
This work and the study of the material he has done during odd hours,
largely in the evenings. Mr. J. O. Martin has helped on part time through-
out the year, incorporating the Van Dyke collection into that of the Acad-
emy. So far over 50,000 specimens have been transferred from the Van
Dyke collection, but as yet the work is hardly more than a third completed.
Dr. Van Dyke has given most generously of his time and effort, checking
over all families of the beetles as they have been arranged by Mr. Martin
and determining much of the unworked Academy material in the groups,
as they are arranged into the unit boxes. The curator, during such hours
as could be spared from his executive duties has continued the arrange-
ment of the collections of Hemiptera and the macrolepidoptera.
The publication of the Pan-Pacific Entomologist has been continued
throughout the year. Indirectly this has become a part of the work of the
Department of Entomology, especially as an outlet for the shorter ento-
mological papers submitted to the Academy for publication in its Pro-
ceedings, or founded upon the collections of the Academy. During 1926
nine such papers were published in this journal, with a total of 87 pages,
or two-fifths of the total number of pages for the year.
The need for additional space for the proper development of this de-
partment is becoming a serious problem. In accepting these large valuable
private collections the Academy assumes the responsibility of properly
housing them, a matter that should receive proper attention before the
limit of growth in the present laboratory has become exhausted.
Edw.\rd p. Van Duzee, Curator.
