Vol. XV] EVERMANN— DIRECTOR'S REPORT FOR 1926 533
Department of Exhibits
The first two months of the year 1926 were spent upon a complete re-
arrangement of the Grizzly Bear Group in the Mammal Hall, as there
yet were some noticeable defects that had not been overcome by the first
alterations. A more appropriate background was painted by Mr. Charles
Bradford Hudson, who is responsible for several of the most effective
backgrounds in the Academy's series of habitat groups. The final arrange-
ment of this group as planned by the department's group artist, Mr.
Frank Tose, has met with the hearty approval of the donor, Mr. Ogden
Mills.
Another month was devoted by Mr. Tose to the painting of the Leather-
back Turtle cast he had made in 1925 for the Department of Herpetology.
For the purpose of keeping the Department of Exhibits in touch with
the latest developments in taxidermy, making of accessory materials,
arrangement and lighting of groups, and all matters pertaining to group
work, Mr. Tose was authorized to visit such museums of the United States
as make a feature of educational work of this nature. The months of
September and October were devoted to this tour. Mr. Tose was well
received by the staff members of the museums visited. Having been given
cordial assistance in his studies of the latest methods introduced into
group work and of the effects attained by their use, he returned to Cali-
fornia with much additional information and knowledge of the sort that
can be obtained only by personal observation and interchange of ideas
with others intensively engaged in this line of work. Notes were kept of
matters of special import; drawings were made of subjects difiicult to
describe; and there was obtained a series of photographs illustrating
effects achieved by the use of the latest methods that have been evolved.
The later part of the year was employed in putting into successful practice
some of the best methods suggested by this museum tour.
Three more panel groups have been installed by Mr. Tose in the past
year, these being the Redwood Weasel, Mountain Quail, and Mendocino
Flying Squirrel. In addition to this, the California Ground Squirrel and
the Tahoe Chipmunk groups have been so arranged as to show to much
better advantage than did the originals.
In the series of habitat groups in the Academy's halls, the possibilities
that exist in the scheme for placing before the public examples of animal
life in its natural surroundings have barely been touched. The extent to
which this educational work might be carried on is limited only by housing
room and cost. Unfortunately, after the five remaining spaces still avail-
able for small pannel groups are filled, which will be in the coming year,
this work will have to cease, unless more space can be provided, and for
such provision the Academy has no funds.
Student assistants in this department in 1926 have been as follows:
Russell Hendricks and Cecil Tose, part time work; Douglas Kelly and
Ralph Keating, student assistants.
Joseph M.\illiard, Curator.
March 31, 1927
