Vol. XV] EVERMANX— DIRECTOR'S REPORT FOR 1926 537
Department of Ornithology
The constant growth of the collections in this department necessitates
corresponding expansion of case room, involving rearrangement of speci-
mens from time to time. Such rearrangement, as commenced in the latter
part of 1925, has been completed by the assistant curator, Miss. M. E.
McLellan, and shows the great need of the department for more extended
quarters in which to house the valuable material that is being acquired.
A considerable portion of the year was occupied by the curator in field
work. Several weeks in January and February were passed in Placer
County, California, principally in banding sparrows of the genus
Zonotrichia.
Beginning on May 17, field work was carried on in California, with
Raleigh Borrell as assistant, on a line extending from the Yolla Bolly
Mountains, in Trinity County, west nearly to the coast in Humboldt
County, and then south to Laytonville, Mendocino County. Eight
camps were made upon this trip, each one being maintained until its possi-
bilities, in the way of supplying new facts or needed specimens, were
practically exhausted, when an advance was made to the next locality
that seemed to be of promise along the route. This trip was ended at
Laytonville, August 11.
On August 27 another field trip was commenced, with Raymond M.
Gilmore and Paul F. Covel as assistants, when Eagleville, Modoc County,
was again visited. The objects of this expedition were twofold. One
object was to endeavor to secure certain birds and mammals to support
sight or hearsay records that had never been properly proved, and the
other was to band Gambel's Sparrows during the southward fall migration
to see what percentage might be secured of those banded in the fall of 1925.
Several of the needed species of birds were secured, of which probably the
most notable was the Ferruginous Rough-legged Hawk, there being no
record of this hawk actually having been secured in northeastern Cali-
fornia. Not far from a thousand Gambel's Sparrows were banded, but
"returns" of birds banded in the previous fall were very few, the inference
being that most of these were migrating along some other route.
At intervals during this work camps were made by one or more members
of the party at other promising points, so as to cover as much territory in
the county' as the length of the visit would permit. This work was brought
to a close on October 7, by which time, in this year of drought, but few
birds of any species still remained at this elevation.
With the routine work of the department, together with the preparation
of a report upon the Academy's recent expedition to the Revillagigedo
Islands, and the report upon the field work carried on by herself in Mexico
in the fall of 1925, the time of the assistant curator has been very
completely filled.
Accessions to the collections have been as follows: Bird skins — By
exploration: 631 specimens. By gift: C. H. Anderson and J. D. Lewis, 1;
F. E. Blaisdell (bequest from Mrs. Marie Fuchs), 5; H. Brandt, 1 ; R. Cabot,
1; H. W. Clark, 1; E. C. Counter, 32; Mrs. Mary C. Fowler, 2; E. W.
