538 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Giflford, 1; J. G. Grundell, 1; L. M. Loomis, 1; John McLaren, 1; W. M.
Phillips, 2; R. Smith, 1; J. A. Street, 1; H. Trost, 1; E. Walther, 1.
Birds' nests and eggs have been received as follows: By exploration:
4 sets of eggs and 1 nest. By gift: H. Aldous, 3 sets.
The departmental library has been considerably increased during the
year. Notable among the acquisitions are Cassin's Birds and Mammals of
the U. S. Exploring Expedition, Vieillot's Oiseaux de I'Amerique septen-
trionale, Sclater and Salvin's Exotic Ornithology, Rothschild's Avifauna of
Laysan, Elliot's Birds of North America, Furbringer's Morphologic und
Systematik der Vogel, and Brisson's Ornithologia.
Joseph Mailliard, Curator.
Department of Paleontology
The activities of the Department of Paleontology during 1926 were
largely confined to the arranging of collections made by former expeditions.
The explorations conducted by the Academy since 1921 resulted in the
accumulation of very large numbers of shells and fossils and to be of use
in scientific study these must be sorted, labelled and provided with storage
space where they can be readily consulted. This indoor, detailed work is
very laborious and time consuming, but is a necessary accompaniment
to exploration.
To this end the laboratory was provided during 1926 with some "built
in" equipment which greatly facilitates this phase of the work. Certain
nondescript pieces of furniture have been eliminated and it can hardly be
said that there is a better equipped paleontology laboratory in the
country now.
In the early part of January Messrs. Jordan and Hertlein made an
automobile trip far into Lower California and they succeeded in bringing
back fossils from several horizons which had not been represented in the
Academy's collections before. When starting on a similar trip to southern
California March 10 an accident occurred which resulted in the death of
Mr. Jordan, and the department was severely handicapped the rest of
the year through this appalling loss.
On many local trips in the state the Curator managed to collect a con-
siderable quantity of material, chiefly in connection with his studies on
the fossil micro-organisms of the state. Being accompanied by accurate
geographic and stratigraphic date, this collection, brought together
through a series of years, is unquestionably without a rival elsewhere in
the world. Late in the year, in cooperation with Mr. Paul Reuderick, a
synthetic resin was discovered with refractive index of approximately 1.80.
This promises to have wide application in microscopical research.
Many students have continued to use the collections in research and at
the end of the year the following loans of specimens were on the records:
Dr. Paul Bartsch, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C; Dr.
Remington Kellogg, Carnegie Institution; Dr. Mary J. Rathbun, U. S.
National Museum; Dr. S. S. Berry, Redlands, CaUf.; Dr. Fred Baker,
Point Loma, Calif.; Mr. A. M. Strong, Los Angeles, Calif.
G. Dallas Hanna, Curator.
