35 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
next day succeeded in collecting one with one fresh tgg. The
food of the birds was found to be land crabs and the fruit of
the cactus. Possibly other articles may be eaten at times.
Land crabs were not much in evidence, presumably be-
cause this was the dry season. But remains of carapaces and
the burrows they had made were common,
Mr. Keifer added a large number of insects to the collection.
Wasps, bumblebees, and grasshoppers were common. Some
hawk moths and three species of butterflies were taken.
Mr. Jordan and the chief machinist's mate collected fishes
along the tide pools and secured about 30 species we had not
previously taken. Many of these were close relatives of the
gaily-colored coral reef fishes of the south seas and Hawaii.
April 28 — Clarion Island is surrounded by a coral reef but
this is not so well developed as those of the south seas. On the
south side, at Sulphur Bay, there is a large area over which
the heads of the coral project at low tide and in the caverns
and interstices of this reef we found collecting excellent.
Much of the coral has been pounded to pieces by the waves and
at this point it is piled in great ridges back from the beach,
white as snow in the sun. Marine shells of many kinds and sea
urchins and starfishes have been washed up with the coral.
When the ship was anchored in Sulphur Bay, Captain
Nelson was able to determine that the bottom was sand. We
therefore could not lose this opportunity to dredge the bottom
and April 28 was largely given to this work by several of us.
It is exceedingly difficult to use any kind of dragging ap-
paratus on bottom which is composed of large rocks or grow-
ing coral. Our method of procedure here was to take the
dredge and a coil of rope in the motor boat out seaward, one
end of the line having been made fast on the ship. When the
line was all out the dredge was dropped. After a sufficient
time had elapsed for it to reach bottom it was slowly hauled
in with one of the winches on the ship. In this way it was
possible to proceed slowly and not unduly strain the line or
dredge bag.
We used a dredge about two feet wide made of heavy band
iron, sharpened on the edges so that it made no difTerence
which side fell on the bottom. In addition, our little beam
