Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 37
trawl, about six feet wide, was used with excellent results. In
the construction of this we departed radically from usual pro-
cedure and built the frame of galvanized pipe entirely. This
made an exceedingly strong frame, yet it was demountable and
took up very little space.
These pieces of apparatus brought up enormous quantities
of broken coral, coral sand, and seaweeds. The latter belongs
chiefly to one species which grows as long slender stalks,
round in cross section and bright green in color. The sailors
called it "spaghetti." All of this material contained large num-
bers of shells, starfishes, sea urchins, crustaceans, and some
fishes and octopuses. It was exceedingly interesting work for
all hands because no one ever knew what strangers the next
dredge haul would produce. With this equipment we could
not work where the water was more than about 200 feet deep
but we looked forward to much of such work about the Revil-
lagigedos. In this we were disappointed because at no other
place about the group did we find a suitable bottom for the
use of the apparatus.
On shore the various workers continued to add largely to
the collection. Messrs. Tose, Wright and Gallegos seemed to
have the most difficult task of all in trying to keep their col-
lections of birds prepared up to date. In a short time in the
field each day more specimens could be collected than could be
prepared, even by working far into the night.
In a full day of collecting in various parts of the island, Mr.
Mason secured only two species of plants he had not previously
found. He did collect about two pounds of beans of the species
which grows so prolifically in the semi-desert climate. These
have a hard shell, are about half an inch long and would be
well worth cultivating if found palatable.
Messrs. Keifer, Tose, Gallegos and Musser prepared to stay
on shore overnight. It was especially desired that some of the
night-flying moths be secured if possible and ]\Ir. Keifer took
all the necessary apparatus with him for an attempt.
April <?p — Mr. Jordan and I continued the collection of
fishes and succeeded in getting about 12 species we had not
previously taken. Some of the shells looked like species found
on the Galapagos Islands while others unquestionably are
