38 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
found along the shores of Lower California. The collectors
who stayed ashore overnight got few specimens and the day
was spent largely in taking duplicates of rarer forms previously
taken.
April JO — Messrs. Mason, Keifer, and Alusser went to the
top of the island and to the cliffs of the north shore. One
species of plant was found which had not been taken before, a
shrub about 15 feet high and the nearest approach to a tree
thus far found. Mr. Keifer found numerous insects he had
not taken before and remained for the night in the highlands,
hoping for better success than he had during his previous stay
on shore.
Everyone who goes on shore to work gets his clothes stained
black with the juice of a species of Euphorbia. This plant
grows in dense thickets about three feet high. The branches
are brittle and it is easier to force a way through than to fight
the intolerable cactus which covers so much of the surface.
Messrs. Slevin, Tose and Gallegos went to the top of the
island to the west of the center and in some large grass-
covered areas on top they found numerous tunnels of Town-
send's shearwater. One egg, two young, and five adult birds
were secured after excavating a great many burrows. The soil
there is soft and reddish-brown, easy to dig but very dry. We
knew beforehand that this bird nested on Clarion Island but
the exact locality could not be learned. We had almost des-
paired of finding it until today.
Mr. Duhem, with the aid of two young men from the ship,
continued to add to his series of motion pictures and today
worked to the westward from the landing and along the coral
beach. Several green sea turtles were found and photo-
graphed. In one place on a solid, elevated part of the beach.
Captain Nelson found some pot-holes about three feet deep
and three to five feet wide. The sides were straight and very
jagged. Many of the holes contained turtle bones and he was
at a loss to account for the occurrence until in one of them he
found an unfortunate turtle alive. Its flippers and the edge of
its carapace were greatly lacerated from constant and long con-
tinued attempts to climb out of the natural trap. It was in an
