42 CALIFORXIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
a distance the object looks like a schooner under sail. We
stopped and lowered a boat to make collections of fishes and
birds. Of the latter we found Brewster's boobies, noddy terns,
sooty terns and man-o-war birds. The sooty terns were nest-
ing as was evidenced by a young bird picked up in the water
beside the rock. Possibly the noddies also nest but it is not
likely that the others do; there is no vegetation on the rock for
the construction of nests.
Six shots of dynamite beside the rock wall produced seven
species of fishes, and a shark was caught on a hook from the
deck of the ship. Giant rays swam lazily about the sliip but
defied all of our eflForts with the harpoon.
The walls of the rock extend straight down into the water
to a great depth ; 50 feet away. Captain Nelson found the
depth to be 210 feet. Coraline algje (red and pink in color)
grows on the walls in the wash of the sea and some crabs were
seen crawling about like flies above the water line. This species
appeared to be the same that had been found on Clarion Island
in similar situations. Likewise, the fishes were sj^ecies which
had been taken on the western island.
This rock did not appear to be composed of volcanic ma-
terial but from the boat close by it seemed to be comix)sed of
a granitic rock, very resistant to weathering. Rocks of this
class are usually associated with continental areas and its
presence here, far out in the Pacific, led to some interesting
speculation as to the possible former existence of a Pacific
Continent.**
The high central peak of Socorro was in sight soon after
we left Roca Partida and as we coasted along the south side of
the island the topography was eagerly scanned with the glasses.
At 4 p. m. the anchor was dropped in Braithwaite Bay, an
indentation of the coast line at the southeast end of the island
which afforded quiet water with the wind and sea coming
from the northwest as they were then. Sheep were seen on
shore near the beach and as the larder was getting low in
fresh meat, it was thought best to send a rifle party ashore
first and secure a supply before the animals were frightened
' Some of the data bearing on this subject have rccentlv been published by the
author in "Science," n. s. Vol. 62, No. 161.^ Nov. 27, 1925, pp. 491-492.
