44 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
cess. This southeast end of the island is quite barren and the
surface is mostly excessively rough with a confusion of lava
blocks. Mr. Mason took only 15 species of plants. Mr. Slevin
got 25 specimens of a beautiful lizard, the only reptile known
from Socorro ; in 1905 he and another man took 80 of them
in one day. ]\Ir. Keifer went inland farther than any one else
but found few insects. In a lava cave he found some water
dripping slowly from the roof. Mr. Slevin also found a
slight seepage of water near Binner's Cove where birds were
drinking.
Mr. Wright took about 40 birds among which were warblers,
towhees, mocking-birds, night herons, and three elf owls. Two
of the latter were not quite full grown. This is said to be the
smallest owl in existence and we were particularly pleased
with the catch because the records indicated that only four
specimens were known in the museums of the world. Mr.
Keifer saw a flock of parrots where he went but none was
captured. Likewise no doves were taken but with these ex-
ceptions all land birds previously known from Socorro were
captured the first day. One of the men from the ship shot a
red-tailed hawk. This is a fair commentary on the thorough-
ness and industry of the various collectors.
Messrs. Jordan and Duhem collected a very considerable
number of fishes along the shores. They accompanied Captain
Nelson and me around the south side of the island where we
went in search of Grayson's Spring.
In 1869 Colonel A. S. Grayson sailed from Mazatlan for
the Revillagigedo Islands on a private expedition for the study
of birds and his vessel was wrecked on the south side of
Socorro Island. At the landing place a spring of freshwater
was found. Undoubtedly after his return to Mexico, news
of this discovery spread but from that day to this the spring
was never relocated. Around Mazatlan and San Bias it had
come to be regarded as a sort of myth handed down from
earlier days.
It so happened that Grayson's notes on his experiences were
forwarded to Dr. Geo. N. Lawrence with a collection of birds
and in describing the latter in the Proceedings of the Boston
Society of Natural History he quoted the notes in fuU.^
'See Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., Vol. 14, 1871, pp. 288-290.
