Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 45
Through the knowledge of ornithological literature possessed
by Miss Mary E. McLellan of the Academy we were ac-
quainted with the account and had no trouble in going directly
to the spot as Grayson had described it. His notes are so lucid
that they are well worth quoting in full since the original
publication is very rare in western libraries.
"For four days, the wind headed us off from the Island most provok-
ingly, or rather from a landing place. We first endeavored to go around
the north side, but found it too difficult on account of head winds; we
then tried the south and, after beating against the wind and a strong cur-
rent, finally reached the cove marked on the chart as Cornwallis Bay. In
this cove, I had been two years previously.
"Although it is a very unsafe anchorage, yet it is the only place we
could find fit to come to anchor, in which we might lay with any show
of safety. The shores of this cove are rough and rocky, upon which the
sea breaks in the calmest weather. There is no beach to land upon, in-
stead of which, at its head, are heaped up round water-worn stones, and
its sides are bold and precipitous. We did not see when sailing nearly all
around this island, any beaches or a better place to land than this little
cove, which opens broadly to the southwest.
"On the 19th of May, seventeen days from Mazatlan, we ran into this
little bay with a fair breeze, and delighted with the green trees at the
head of the cove and the song of birds among them. But the captain
appeared to feel a great deal of uneasiness at the general appearance of
things. He let go the anchors, as he thought, a little too near the shore,
and the breakers so near and all around, filled him with fear; and just
when we felt that all was safe and our voyage at an end for the present,
he ordered the anchor to be hauled up and at the same time the main sail
hoisted, with the intention of beating out against a head wind; his excuse
was that the anchor would not hold. But this movement proved fatal to
our craft. Before headway could be made, she was driven in by the wind
and swells among the breakers near the shore ; both anchors were again
'let go,' but it was too late? her doom w^as sealed. We made every effort
to haul her out by kedging with the small anchor, this being taken ahead
with great difficulty in the little skiff and dropped — we would then pull
upon the chain ; but futile was the effort. Her centre-board had already
struck and broken off and her keel was thumping on the rocks as she
surged heavily at her chains, which threatened every moment to part.
"We now turned our attention to saving the water and provisions ; the
former giving me the most anxiety. As for the latter I had no fears, as
fish of excellent quality swarm around the shores and are easily taken
with hook and line. We still had hopes of saving the sloop when the
sea became a little smoother, as she was not yet much damaged. We,
however, made preparation for landing everything we could. A rope was
fastened to a point of rocks about twenty-five yards distant, to facilitate
our landing, and the skiff was pulled back and forth just when the sea
