46 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (Proc. 4th Ser.
would give us an opportunity of jumping ashore; much caution had to
be used in this exploit, the sea breaking furiously at times upon this rock.
"Mr. Anderson being seasick, from which malady he suffered the entire
voyage, was first put on shore, afterwards my son and the boy Cristobal
were landed, in order to receive the different articles as they were thrown
to them from the skiff. The water casks were all hoisted on deck in
order that, should the sloop break up, they would float ashore ; the provi-
sions, guns, ammunition, and other articles most needed for the expedi-
tion were all soon safely landed.
"I remained on board till all these things were on shore. Cristobal,
who had gone a few steps up the cove, suddenly cried out to me with
demonstrations of the most lively joy, 'aqua, aqua-dulce,' pointing at the
same time to an ugly pile of rocks upon which he was standing.
"There indeed we found a small spring of warm water gushing out of
a seam in the solid rock that forms a precipice on the western side of the
cove; it was partly concealed by a pile of rocks and boulders, which is
often covered by the tide, and the spring so low down would naturally be
taken for tide water running back into the sea.
"The uncertainty of the length of time we would have to remain before
being rescued from our exile, for it is well known that vessels seldom pass
near this island, rendered this discovery of the highest importance. The con-
templation of the hardships, toil and intense suffering in search for water
in a locality where it seemed extremely doubtful of success, filled my
mind with the greatest anxiety, but it was now dispelled by this unex-
pected discovery, and I felt pretty certain that the preservation of our
lives depended upon it. This I became more and more convinced of, as
we made frequent and laborious excursions without being able to find it
elsewhere."
The spring was found exactly as he had described it and
birds in large numbers were still going there to drink. It is
believed that enough water flows out of the lava wall to supply
at least 100 men in emergency. This is very important be-
cause, so far as we were able to determine, there is no other
place on the island where drinking water may be had in the
dry season.
Since we resolved to return to the spring on a later date and
mark it we remained on shore there only a few minutes. We
did find some weather worn planks, the last remnants of Gray-
son's boat, and back under the trees were some rusted iron
bands, apparently parts of the bird cages he was obliged to
abandon.
