Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 47
May 4 — All hands returned to Grayson's Cove and the
Captain chiselled a large "VV" on the rock wall above the
spring; the letter was filled with white cement and the follow-
ing inscription was made: ORTOLAN — 4 May 1925 —
Grayson Cove— AGUA DULCE.
The location, at the west end of Cornwallis Bay, was marked
on the chart and after our return the Hydrographic Office of
the Navy was notified so that future editions can contain this
important information.
Grayson's camping place was found to be a little paradise
under the dense shade of a very peculiar tree. The fruit of
this tree is about the size of a walnut and contains numerous
seeds in a hard tough shell. The seeds taste much like a walnut.
The sap is milky and the leaves are bright green and polished.
A great many birds, including parrots and red-tailed hawks,
were found in the grove and the collectors made the best of
their opportunity. Under the bark of some of the dead trees
some fine beetles were collected and several species of land
shells, all minute, were found under the dead leaves on the
ground. Lizards were very scarce and apparently in hiding.
None of the birds showed any evidence of nesting. Two sea
cliffs were found where Brewster's boobies were roosting but
they do not appear to nest on the island. Petrels were com-
mon at sea and noddy terns seemed to be going back and forth
to Oneal Rock in large numbers.
May 5 — Messrs. Duhem, Jordan and I collected fishes all
day in the vicinity of Braithwaite Bay and secured several
species we had not previously taken. We tried to use a seine
but found this impracticable on account of rocky bottom every-
where. There certainly is an opportunity for the development
of some kind of fish collecting apparatus for use in just such
situations and although we had no time to experiment in the
construction of such here, we were able to suggest some fea-
tures it should contain. Thus it should be a net with small
meshes and capable of being operated from a small motor boat
over excessively rough bottom. Probably no apparatus can
be used directly on such ground, but it should approach it as
nearly as possible because the most desired fishes live among
the interstices of the rocks. Probablv a net to be towed could
