48 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
be kept down and spread by the use of metal plates or vanes
called "kites."
Collecting marine Mollusca was found to be exceptionally
disappointing about the shores of Socorro. No sand beaches
and no sand bottom was found ; the rise and fall of the tide is
slight and all shores are exposed. Therefore the only fauna
available is that known as "littoral."
Messrs. Tose, Gallegos, and Wright remained on board ship
all day preparing specimens of birds.
Messrs. Mason and Keifer went inland and eventually pene-
trated the fog of the higher ground to a distance estimated to
be within 500 feet of the top of the central mountain.
It should be explained that Socorro Island is roughly circu-
lar in outline and a little more than eight miles in diameter.
The surface rises to a central peak, stated by the U. S. Hydro-
graphic Office to be 3707 feet high. This mountain appeared
to be without a name, but we needed one for the proper de-
signation of positions where specimens were collected. After
some consideration it was thought that the logical designation
for this important landmark is "Mt. Evermann" after Dr.
Barton Warren Evermann, Director of the Museum and the
Steinhart Aquarium of the California Academy of Sciences,
to whom credit is due for the organization of the expedition.
Knowing in advance, of difficulties of ascending the moun-
tain, chiefly on account of the brush of the lowlands, it was
thought desirable for Messrs. Mason and Keifer, two of our
best travelers, to prospect for a feasible route to the summit.
After crossing an area very difficult to traverse on account
of brush and lava they entered a heavily timbered canon, which
was a regular botanists' paradise. Many new plants were
found, among which were a wild cherry and a fruit afterwards
determined to be a new species of "Bumelia." This was a
dark purple fruit about three-fourths of an inch long and with
a delicious flavor. Birds were eating it in large quantities.
Mr. Mason ventured to follow and no ill effects resulted.
In the canon were many strange trees, flowers, epiphytic
plants and orchids. Birds were excessively abundant and
droves of sheep were met with here and there all the way.
