Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 5^
One of the men from the ship found a skull on the lowlands
which he thought was from a pig* but he failed to bring it in
and on a subsequent occasion could not find it. But we had
found no trace in any report of a record of the introduction of
the sheep. Mr. Gifford found them there in 1903 and so did
Mr. Slevin in 1905, but earlier records seemed to be entirely-
lacking. At Mazatlan, however, the U. S. Consul, Mr. Wm.
E. Chapman, had the full details in his files and very kindly
had a copy of the following report made for us.
The Revillagigedo Islands
By Edward R. del Rip, Clerk, American Consulate,
Manzanillo, Mexico, April 18, 1923
The Revillagigedo Islands comprise a group of four islands situated
between latitude 18° Zif and 19° 20' north and longitude 110° 48' west.
They lie oflF the coast of the state of Colima about 410 miles. Of this
group the principal island is known as "La Isla del Socorro." The others,
with the exception of Qarion Island are very small and of less impor-
tance. They are, viz : Isla de Benedicto, Roca Partida, and Isla de
Qarion. There is little known at the present time of these islands. In-
formation obtained from various sources at this port regarding the largest
island of this group, namely "Socorro" is given below:
Socorro Island is situated in Lat. 18° 43' north, and Long. 110° 57'
west. The island emerges from the ocean to a height of about 3,707 feet,
according to information from the Central American West Coast Pilot of
1920, published by the Hydrographic Office of the United States Navy
Department. The island is visible in clear weather at a distance of about
seventy miles.
History
Historians, like Sr. Mata Padilla, describe this island as having be-
longed at one time to the "territory known long ago as Nueva Galicia,
which formerly was composed of the Mexican States known today as
Aguascalientes, Jalisco, Michoacan and Colima. At that time, as now, it
has been under the jurisdiction of the State of Colima. The Island of
Socorro was discovered some time during the year 1608 by a gallant
Spaniard known as Captain Martin Yanez de Armida, who, having been
lured by tales of the Toltocas Indians, that a rich treasure of gold was
buried on the island, set out to find this treasure in a small boat accom-
panied by his wife, six mariners and a woman servant. The captain be-
lieved this old tradition about the rich treasure buried on the island, until
he reached it and began his unsuccessful search. The party abandoned
the quest for the treasure and, upon departing from the island. Captain
Armida gave it the name of Socorro, in honor of his wife whose name
was Socorro.
