52 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
In the year 1869, under authority of the Mexican Government, an
Enghshman by the name of John Smith, attempted to exploit these
islands, and brought with him and his party from Australia, about twenty-
five head of cattle and one hundred head of sheep of the very best breed
from Cobu. The cattle very soon died and the few remaining were killed
for meat. It is said that the heat on the island killed the cattle but had
no eflect upon the sheep which thrived and multiplied in great numbers.
Mr. Smith died soon after his arrival on the island and his comrades
returned to their homes in Australia and Canada. The sheep were left
upon the island, and, according to recent reports it is said that there are
great numbers of them there. Several expeditions have been made to the
island and each time someone has carried away many sheep hides and
salted dried goat meat. [The data here unquestionably refer to Guada-
lupe Island, G. D. H.]
In 1882, the late Governor of the State of Colima made a visit to
Socorro Island and upon his return made a very extensive report to the
Mexican Government of the richness of the island and the possibilities
there for development of the sheep industry. However, to the present
time the government has never derived any revenue from these islands.
It is interesting to learn that since the first time the sheep were placed
upon the island in the year 1869, they have increased in great numbers and
are no doubt being smuggled to this day into Mexican and American
ports. The pasturage is said to be excellent as the islands are covered
with a very good grade of grass. The vegetation and soil is of the same
kind found along the west coast of Mexico : very sandy, loamy soil and
rich vegetation. The ground everywhere on the island is covered with a
thick growth of flat cactus and sage-like brush. [This must refer to
Qarion Island.] Much the same growth is found along the coast of
Mexico.
For several years it has been stated that the island of Socorro was
without water, but, because of the vegetation and animal life reported,
the theory is advanced that there is a considerable supply. The pilot of
the port of Manzanillo advises the writer that during his visit to the
island he located several very good natural freshwater springs of ex-
cellent drinking water.
The shores of the islands of the Revillagigedo group abound in fish,
turtle, crabs and crawfish and the surrounding vicinity with whales,
sharks and porpoises, while the animal life on the islands is composed of
birds such as swallows, robins, canaries, parrots, pelicans, sea-gulls, the
frigate birds, orioles, and numerous others besides the sheep now on the
island.
Of the poisonous reptiles on the island it is said that there are such as
the rattlesnake, the "alacran" (scorpion) as are generally found along
the coastal sections of the west coast of Mexico.
Doubtless the Mexican Government would welcome the development of
these islands by reliable and constructive enterprises, composed of Ameri-
can and English capital.
