Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 53
Unfortunately there are no photographs available of these islands and
if one could make a visit there and make a thorough investigation no
doubt very interesting data could be obtained and disclosed to the public.
Equally as important as Socorro Island, is Clarion Island of this same
group. Its vegetation and animal life is identical with Socorro. This
island lies next to Socorro from which it bears 263°, 214 miles.
In spite of the fact that some of the data in the above report
is unquestionably mixed, it possesses a very considerable value
and enlightened us upon the one point \ve could not even
theorize, the mode of introduction of the sheep.
It will be seen that the historical matter relating to the dis-
covery of the Revillagigedo group differs notably from what
appears to be the facts as related by Miss McLellan.®
The possibility of making Socorro into a profitable sheep
ranch was discussed considerably by our party and it did not
seem to those intimately familiar with such work that it could
be made to pay. The chief obstacles are the remote distance
from ports where wool would be manufactured and the lack of
safe landing places on the island. Nevertheless there is a pos-
sibility that these difficulties could be overcome and the island
is certainly well worthy of investigation by trained sheep men.
It was our belief that so far as native fauna and flora is con-
cerned the exploitation of the sheep would do no more damage
ultimately than to leave them as they are.
About 11a. m. we passed out of the zone of brush on the
lower slopes of Mt. Evermann and entered the cafions which
were densely forested with many kinds of strange trees. The
travelling here was much easier and, to all of us, far more in-
teresting. The trees were teeming with bird life, and the
"Bumelia" trees afforded great quantities of delicious fruit,
which we ate with a relish. It served most to quench our
thirst and thus permitted us to conserve the precious supply of
water in our canteens.
Occasionally we would lie down to rest under the trees and
then the curiosity of the mockingbirds was uncontrollable.
They would hop up and peck, jay-like, at our knapsacks or
boots, uttering all the time a most non-thrush-like sound. We
did not hear them attempt a song at all and would believe they
'See Science, n. s. Vol. 62, No. 1599, Aug. 21, 1925, p. 172.
