54 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIEXCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
have none except for Grayson's brief note saying that he heard
them "mock" on rare occasions.
During such rest periods Mr. Slevin succeeded in capturing
some living specimens of the beatiful Socorro Island dove
(Grayson's dove) which Mr. Gifford desired for his aviary in
Oakland, California. The birds were captured with an or-
dinary fisherman's landing net tied on the end of a stick about
six feet long. Altogether 13 of these doves were brought back
alive.
Warblers were very abundant in the trees and the beautiful
green paroquets kept up a continual screech, amounting in
some caiions, almost to a roar. Red-tailed hawks were abun-
dant and very tame; ornithologists will fully understand this
when it is stated that one was shot with a .410 ga. gun using
No. 12 shot. This fearlessness of the birds is one of the most
striking features of far away, uninhabited islands such as this.
Search among the dead leaves by several of us revealed
about a dozen species of minute land snails, an assemblage
totally different from any I had ever seen elsewhere. Probably
most striking w^as a member of the genus Strobilops, a group
which reaches its greatest development in central and eastern
United States. We did not find on Socorro the beautiful and
gaudily colored Orthalicus imdatus mentioned by Brewer as
having been collected by Grayson.^*^ The species is abundant
on the Tres Marias Islands which Grayson visited on his way
to and from Socorro and I cannot help but feel that he made a
mistake in labelling his specimens.
Considerable time was given to searching for insects but
these were exceedingly scarce under stones and logs w^here
beetles would usually be expected. The ground was very dry,
however, and possibly any which may live there had retreated
beneath our reach.
One of the trees with white bark like a sycamore was about
40 feet high, one foot in diameter and bore long spikes of
cream-white flowers. The fruit was about half an inch in
diameter, pale green in color, and was not eaten by the birds.
Therefore, we did not try it. The forests in the caiions were
so dense that the sunlight rarely penetrated to the ground;
hence mosses, lichens, ferns and orchids were abundant on the
"Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist, Vol. 14, 1871, p. 303.
