Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 55
trees and branches. Some of the Bumeha fruit trees were fully
50 feet high and although the larger trunks were irregular in
growth they were at least five feet in diameter. What ap-
peared to be the canes of a species of blackberry grew to the
extreme length of 200 feet but it had neither fruit nor flowers
and the identification could not be made with certainty. There
was almost no underbrush in these canons but the ridges and
"hog-backs" were practically impassable, we learned through
bitter experience during the afternoon. This was rather dis-
concerting to the experienced travellers who were in the habit
of following the elevations in an unknown country in order to
obtain a better view of the region being traversed. All of
these observations and experiences made a day of hard labor
and terrible thirst pass pleasantly.
Early in the evening as the fogs of the mountain top closed
in we made our camp at the head of a heavily timbered canon
and a fortunate choice this was indeed. The fog passed over
at each side and below us but our camp was dry. This was
a great relief because we had no bedding and the night was
cold. A fire was kept up most of the night and we were fairly
comfortable. The camp was made at an elevation, indicated
by our barometer, as 2300 feet, seemingly an insignificant
climb but the excessive heat and heavy brush wore us down.
The temperature was only 82° to 88° F. during the day but
it seemed much w^armer than that.
For dinner we each had a dove, roasted over the camp fire,
and not long thereafter we were all asleep.
May 7 — Next morning at six we were up and getting ready
to continue the climb to the top of the mountain. Breakfast
was a simple matter. Two men ate a can of beans. Another
ate a sandwich and another some cookies. We could not waste
much water washing down dry food ; hence we did not eat.
After breaking camp we climbed the obsidian ridge ahead
of us, 200 feet and into the fog. Then we realized how fortu-
nate we had been to select a dry camp site. The vegetation
all about was drenched with mist, yet there was not a drop
of water to drink. We followed the ridge upward until we
came to an abrupt declivity and we could see no further;
therefore we did tlie only natural thing under the circum-
