55 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Stances. We stopi)ed for an hour to collect land shells, in-
sects, land crabs and plants, and to await the rising of the fog.
All of the time we could hear a steady roar like a railroad
train straight to the west of us.
Finally, about 9 a. m., the fog lifted a little and we saw
directly ahead a huge jet of steam rising 200 feet in the air.
We knew then that we were on the right trail to the top be-
cause it issued from a large white area (a mud flow) on a
spur on the north side of the mountain. We had headed
toward it for a marker the day before.
While waiting for the fog to further dissipate we spent the
time investigating the system of fissures, fumaroles and steam
vents. These occur in a zone about 500 yards long in a nar-
row caiion on the northeast flank of the top of the mountain.
It is not over 500 feet up from there to the top and the dis-
tance is perhaps half a mile. The whitish mud flows out on
the side of the gulch and makes a marker which is visible for
a long distance.
The fissures are very active. We had no means of measur-
ing the temperature of the steam issuing therefrom but the
rush due to the high pressure produced a great roar. Around
the vents there was much crystallized sulphur and the odor of
hydrogen sulphide was very apparent. The largest vents were
about eight inches in diameter. In the upper part of the
gulch some of the fumaroles contained water but this was
found to be highly acid and entirely undrinkable. These par-
ticular vents escaped our notice but were found two days
later by Mr. Lot of the Ortolan. All of the rocks seen in the
vicinity were rather porous lavas and tuffs.
Around the rim of this zone of activity there were found
numerous burrows of Townsend's shearwaters, the identifica-
tion being based u^wn a portion of a carcass left by a red-
tailed hawk at a recent date. Some of the burrows were
opened but were empty. The investigation could not be carried
very far because we had no digging tools and the soil was
very hard and filled with volcanic ejectimenta.
The night before while lying awake listening to the various
night sounds of the strange forest, I had heard birds chatter-
ing as they passed overhead at irregular intervals and was
entirely unable to account for them among the known resi-
