Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 57
dent bird population of the island. The discovery of the bur-
rows confirmed the suspicion that shearwaters actually nest
upon Socorro.
From the steam vents we had a steady climb up a steep
ridge 500 feet to the top, or what we thought was the top.
still enshrouded in fog. After a short time Mr. Slevin saw
the shore line and identified Grayson's Cove, from the posi-
tion of which we were certain we had attained the highest
point. Not long afterwards all the fog disappeared and we
were treated to a grand panoramic view of the entire island
and shore line.
Our barometer showed an elevation of 3373 feet, or 334
feet less than the altitude given on the chart. Search was
made for the bottle left by Messrs. Gifford and Bunnell in 1903
but we did not find it. Upon our return we learned that it had
been buried beneath the surface, not in a cairn as we had
supposed.
We erected a cairn and, following custom, left a bottle in it
with the name of the ship, commander, expedition, date and
our six names.
Evidently sheep frequent the open, brush-free summit be-
cause well beaten trails lead away in every direction. Some
charred brush was found nearby in a position which indicated
that a fire had passed through. Probably this was a remnant
of the fire started by Grayson and which lead to his rescue.
He spoke of its having spread far and wide over the mountain-
side before he was out of sight on his homeward journey.
Even today the south side of the mountain is remarkably free
of brush and is principally grown over with grass and some
cactus. For some strange reason the sheep do not seem to
range over this area as we saw no sign of trails near Gray-
son's Cove.
From the top we were able to study the best means of ap-
proaching the mountain and found it unquestionably to be
from Grayson's Cove. But that route does not pass through
any such interesting country as we had traversed on the ascent.
Wooded canons are absent on the south side but are abundant
on the north, east and west. Between them brush-covered
ridges radiate outward like spokes in a wheel.
