58 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Careful search was made from the top in every direction for
evidence of water but not a sign could be seen. To the east-
ward in one caiion there was a dry lake bed which unquestion-
ably does contain a small amount of water during the rainy
season. Up to this time we had thought there might be some
reason for the supposition of Captain Colnett, that a fresh-
water lake existed on the island "because of the teal ducks"
found flying down to the sea." But with the unobstructed
view we had we were thoroughly convinced that no permanent
lake now exists on the island. It is barely possible that this
dry lake bed did hold water throughout the year at the^time of
Capt. Colnett's visit and has silted up in the meantime. From
what we saw of the erosion produced by a cloudburst on the
east side of the island it seemed entirely possible for a small
lake to be entirely filled with sediment in one rainstorm.
At 11 a.m. we ate a little chocolate, tasted a little water and
started down. The trip was made as rapidly as feasible with-
out excessive fatigue but we did not reach the beach until
nearly 5 p. m. Choke cherries and Bumelia fruit, picked on
the way down helped us to forget our thirst.
Mr. Duhem and his party arrived several hours before we
did. Those members of the expedition who did not go inland
were profitably engaged in making further collections in the
lowlands.
May 8 — Messrs. Tose, Mason, Keifer, Solis, Gallegos, Lot
and two men from the ship started early for the interior of
the island and the top of Mt. Evermann. The climbing party
of the previous day remained aboard until after noon when
collecting was done near the shore line. Many marine shells
and fishes were taken but nothing very striking was found
by those working on the land.
May p — The party returned from the top of Mt. Evermann
this afternoon, and, having profited by the mistakes made by
those who had gone up before, they managed to endure the
hardships somewhat better. Fortunately they took all the
water that they could carry and not very much food. The
fruit of the Bumelia proved a great help to all of them.
"See McLellan, Science, N. S., Vol. 62, No. 1599, August 21, 1920, p. 172.
