Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION
61
For a while in the early morning' I helped Mr. Keifer col-
lect insects in a cactus patch just to the north of the landing
at Braithwaite Bay. Large quantities of a very rank g-rass
grow among the cactus and we felt certain insects must be
there, but we had no way of getting them until we hit upon the
idea of setting fire to small sections at a time. In this manner
a good series of katydids and a large species of grasshopper,
which we had not seen before, were taken. At the same time
we flushed several night herons and found that they had nested
among this thorny Opuntia. The young ones were able to fly
and this would indicate that the season of fresh eggs would
be not later than March. Before we had arrived at Socorro
there had been some speculation as to what the food of the
night heron might be in such a place as this. The question was
settled today and we found that they subsist on crabs and other
crustaceans secured along the rocky shore-line.
Mr. Slevin took a few more lizards today and is entirely
unable to explain the scarcity of these reptiles at this season.
By working energetically for many days he has amassed a very
considerable collection, but the single species found is far from
as common as he found it in 1905. He made up for the lack
of reptiles today, however, in securing two more specimens of
the little elf owl.
Another question which no one has been able to satisfac-
torily answer pertains to the mosquitoes on the island. When
parties have camped high up on the mountain-side overnight,
not a single one of these insects has been found, but when
anyone has been near the shore-line after sunset, he has been
pestered unmercifully. This would seem to imply that there
are some pools of stagnant water somewhere in the lowlands,
but repeated search by many men has failed to disclose them.
May II — All of the scientific party and the Captain left the
ship at 6 a.m. in the motorboat to go around the island. At
Braithwaite Bay it seemed calm and an ideal day to make the
trip, a day for which we had been waiting ever since we had
arrived at Socorro. As we rounded Cape Rule, we found con-
ditions far from pleasant. There was a strong head wind with
a heavy sea and so much water came aboard that it was neces-
sary for us to stay close in shore on the south side of the
