52 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
island. We passed Grayson's Cove and proceeded as far as
Cape Henslow; O'Neal Rock was in the distance and we had
high hopes of really being able to reach it and investigate the
colony of noddy terns which Mr. Slevin had found there in
1905. He had noted then that the nests of boobies on the
rock were decorated with dead seahorses. We had made care-
ful search for this strange fish ever since we had left Guada-
lupe Island but had failed to find a single one. We were very
desirous of getting a large collection of them alive to ship back
to San Diego in the tanks on board the Ortolan and from there
they could be trans-shipped to the Steinhart Aquarium in San
Francisco.
We were therefore greatly disappointed when, at Cape
Henslow, we found we could not make further headway
against the wind and sea. Everyone on board was soaking
wet with the spray when we reluctantly turned back.
Although the surf was very bad in Grayson's Cove, we did
succeed in landing safely on the rock wall on the west side of
the cove. Again large collections of birds, insects, plants and
shells were made. While Messrs. Jordan and Duhem were
landing a fish with a hand-line and dip-net, a shark came up
and bit the bamboo handle of the net off clean. The net was
saved and a moment later the fish was taken, cut in two.
Late in the day we returned to the ship and all hands made
preparations for sea. Quite obviously we must give up hope
this time of being able to explore the north and west sides of
the island. Throughout our stay the wind persisted from the
northwest, thus making a landing on those desirable portions
impossible. The island is so rough and the absence of known
water makes it impossible to explore very far away from the
landing places. [
May 12 — The ship got under way at 2 a. m. and we reached
San Benedicto Island soon after daylight. It was very rough
even on the east side of the island where the only anchorage
is indicated on the sailing charts. For a while it seemed rather
doubtful if we would be able to get on shore at all. Mr.
Slevin and I in a rowboat prospected the whole of the east side
but not a place was found where a boat could be landed. We
did succeed in getting ashore, however, with most of the party.
