Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION 53
by casting a grapnel upon a projecting spur. The first man
scrambled up the perpendicular lava wall and with a heaving
line hauled up and secured a Jacob's ladder. Going ashore and
back aboard later in the day was dangerous work, but we man-
aged to do it without an accident. A man overboard there
who could not swim would almost certainly have been lost.
Consequently it was thought that the two or three in the party
in that category had better stay on board. San Benedicto
was the most inhospitable place any of us had ever seen. The
south end rises in an Ash Heap to an elevation of about 900
feet, the highest point on the island. The ashes are white
and the sides of the hill are deeply scored with water channels.
Connecting the Ash Heap with the northern part of the island
is a low isthmus. Much of the northern part is a high plateau
with, in one place, the most perfect crater many of us had
seen. After due consideration of this beautiful bowl, it was
decided that it should bear a name and it seemed entirely
proper that it be called after Dr. Alphonso Herrera, the hon-
orable Director of the National Museum of Mexico.
The shore line of the island has been gradually eroded
away by the beating of the waves of the Pacific and on the
west side some outlying pinnacle rocks have been left standing.
Messrs. Mason and Solis, with the help of others, took eight
species of plants on the island. Three were grasses and one
was a morning glory which is found on Clarion Island. One
species of grass covers most of the accessible area and grows
five to six feet high in places. It is exceedingly rank and dense
and very hard to break through. The only other plant present
in any abundance is a Euphorbia, the brush of which is used
exclusively by the man-of-war birds and blue-faced boobies for
nests. No cactus was found.
Whenever we went on shore a cloud of grasshoppers ad-
vanced in front of us. Some of these were at least three inches
long and two species were found, which, with a few small
ground beetles, are the only conspicuous insects other than a
great many carrion flies about the carcasses of dead birds.
Also around the necks of the live birds there were enormous
numbers of parasitic flies belonging to the family Hippobos-
cidae. Some birds had as many as fifty flies each and they
seemed to produce considerable discomfort to the host because
