56 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
to force it down into the water and it barely reached land.
We did not recapture it and it was not believed that it would
survive very long.
The men on board the ship took 42 large sharks over the
side in two hours, some being eight feet long. Other fishes
were very scarce.
At 4:45 p. m. all hands were aboard satisfied with the re-
sults obtained and the ship got under way for Maria Madre
Island.
May ij — W'hen daylight came this morning the ship was
gliding through a sea as smooth and calm as glass. We could
hardly believe our eyes, because this was the first real calm
weather we had experienced since we left San Diego. Un-
questionably we had passed out of the region where northwest
trade winds prevailed and were entering a new climatic zone
which would be occupied by many different kinds of plants and
animals than those to which we had become accustomed. We
cruised all day through the oily sea, enjoying the sensation of
freedom from the wind and roll. An occasional petrel or shear-
water glided silently past to relieve the monotony of the
situation.
At 10 o'clock of the preceding night when we were 55 miles
east of San Benedicto Island a wandering wayfarer, a red
phalarope, flew aboard and was captured by Mr. Duhem.
A little after noon the Tres Marias Islands were sighted to
the eastward and not long thereafter the Captain found that he
was headed straight for the passage between Maria Madre and
Maria Magdalena islands. We anchored close in front of the
Mexican Federal Penitentiary on the east side of Maria Madre
Island and at 6 p. m. Messrs. Gallegos, Solis, Contreras,
Nelson and I went ashore to learn what arrangements might
be made for making natural history collections on the group
while the ship returned to San Diego for fuel.
We were most hospitably received by the acting director,
Sr. Gallindo, and the commandante, Sr. Sanchez. They very
generously offered us a house which we might occupy as head-
quarters during our stay, a building very well equipped for
our needs. They likewise offered to give us any assistance
which we might require, such as guides and saddle horses.
