58 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
insects swarmed in the intense struggle for existence which
seemed to be taking place on all sides.
Parties from the ship enjoyed the day on shore and in the
afternoon the crew had a ball game. Sr. Gallegos, a most de-
lightful companion at all times, was here invaluable to us be-
cause of his ability to speak English almost as fluently as his
native tongue.
May 15 — At 9:30 a. m. when most of us were out in the
forest making collections in our various groups, we heard three
blasts from the whistle of the Ortolan announcing, her de-
parture for San Diego. We felt that we were in a paradise
from a collector's standpoint and looked forward to the days
to come with a great deal of pleasure.
Messrs. Slevin and Musser went south from the village as
far as the Saltworks Lagoon and collected many lizards during
the day. Two snakes were found, one being a racer about
seven feet long. Mr. Musser shot a rabbit and also collected a
few birds.
Messrs. Tose, Wright and Gallegos collected birds within
half a mile of the village for a while during the early afternoon
and spent the rest of the day preparing them. Some traps
had been put out the night before, but no animals were taken
in them. Among the most conspicuous birds were tanagers,
flycatchers, orioles, warblers, wrens, cardinals, woodpeckers
and caracaras. Three kinds of doves were seen and red-tailed
hawks, vultures, parrots, swallows and hummingbirds were
not uncommon.
There were so many kinds of plants to be collected and
pressed that Messrs. Mason and Solis were not able to wander
more than a half a mile from the village. It was quite ap-
parent to all of us that our visit was made in the midst of the
dry season. We were told that no rain had fallen for several
weeks and the forest had the appearance of autumn in the
eastern United States. Most of the trees had shed their leaves
and there were but few annual plants in bloom. Careful ob-
servation, however, enabled the collectors to find flowers of
most of the perennial plants which they encountered.
On account of the dryness of the season insects were proba-
bly not as abundant as they would have been at a later date.
