Vol. XV] HANNA—REVILLAGIGEDO ISLANDS EXPEDITION QJ
which could be brought into cultivation if artesian water exists
within reasonable depths, this development would seem to be
worthy of serious attempt.
In this connection it is worth recording that the deepest well
of which I learned was put down to 68 feet on the Rancho
Escoras on the Plain. Excellent water was obtained in suf-
ficient quantity to supply domestic needs and irrigate the ranch
garden.
At Red Rock Ranch I saw two beautiful specimens of
Cretaceous ammonites with most of the pearly shell preserved.
They were reported to have been collected at Ekatarina Land-
ing in the vicinity of Rosario Bay by a Mr. Moody, petroleum
geologist who located a well which was being drilled. No de-
tails of the well or the fossil occurrence were available, but it
was stated by Miss Hamilton that some of the ammonites there
were nearly three feet across."
We returned to the village of San Quintin at 4:30 p. m.,
where the other members of the party ashore had made some
important collections. The ship was reached at 6 :30 p. m.
June 8 — We left the San Quintin Point anchorage at 5 a. m.
and reached San Martin Island at 7 a. m. We desired to make
as complete collections as possible from this remarkable vol-
canic islet in the time available because of the number of species
found there and no place else.
The island is almost circular, one mile in diameter and with
a boulder spit on the southeast side. The western part is 400
feet high and composed of scoria and other volcanic ejecta-
menta. This makes a rone with a beautiful and perfect crater
in the top. Lava flows form the remainder of the island
(except the spit) and make the surface excessively rough and
difficult to travel over.
Four or five species of land shells were found among the
blocks of lava and numerous insects and spiders were taken by
Mr. Keifer, assisted by Mr. Wright and me.
" One magnificant specimen brought back by Mr. Moody came into the possession
of Mr. Charles H. Sternberg, the veteran collector, and has been acquired by the San
Diego Society of Natural History; it is fully 18 inches across. Another is in the
possession of Mr. David Goldbaum of Ensenada, Lower California.
