J2^ CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
dip but the angles are only 5° to 10°. The diatoniite rests
directly upon a diorite base and this in turn upon massive
granite.
On account of its stratigraphic position and the organisms
it contained, the diatomite is believed to be Miocene in age.
Many of the diatoms belong to species which have previously
been found only in Monterey Shale of California. Others are
characteristic of the Miocene deposits of Maryland and Vir-
ginia. This mingling of floras might be expected to occur in
the Miocene when the Isthmus of Panama did not exist.
The Maria Madre Island deposit has little in common with
the famous beds of Barbados and Trinidad which have yielded
so many strange forms. They are probably older.
The collection of slides upon which this report is based has
been prepared according to the methods used by Dr. Albert
Mann of Washington, D. C. One species only is mounted
uix)n a slide. All type material is segregated in the Type Col-
lection of the Department of Paleontology, California Acade-
my of Sciences.
Other organisms found in the shales but which have not as
yet been studied are fishes, radiolarians and silicoflagellates.
An alphabetical arrangement of genera and species has been
adopted, thus obviating the need of an index. Names of genera
in common use among diatomists have been retained even
though some of them might be replaced in accordance with the
rule of priority adopted by many botanists and zoologists.
Because of their refusal to foist this rule upon themselves it is
believed that the generic nomenclature of the diatoms is more
stable than in most other groups of organisms.
We are under deep obligations to Dr. Barton Warren
Evermann, Director of the California Academy of Sciences,
for unremitting generosity in the provision of instruments and
library facilities whereby this study has been made possible.
The literature on the diatoms is extensive and much of it is
rare and expensive; in spite of this the Academy has succeeded
in securing all of the most important books and pa[)ers on the
subject from a taxonomic standpoint.
