Vol. XV] HANNA & GRANT— MIOCENE MARINE DIATOMS WJ
1. Actinocyclus allinearius Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 11, figure 1
Valve large, circular, regularly convex in the center ; border
narrow; pseudonodule circular, hyaline and very distinct;
surface markedly coscinodisciform, there being a small group
of rather heavy closely-set beads in the center without definite
arrangement ; remainder of disk covered with closely-set
radial rows of beads the size being such that a fairly accurate
quinqux arrangement is maintained ; close to the margin the
radial lines of beads become strise, difficult to resolve because
of the sloping surface of the valve ; a definite and accurate
radial and quinqux arrangement of the beads is interrupted
by pairs of rows extending outwardly varying distances and
maintaining a considerably larger size to the termination, after
which three rows of usual size continue outwardly ; this differ-
ence in size of the beading and a small hyaline space left un-
filled between the two rows immediately before they end pro-
duce a pyrotechnic effect seen in the common and well known
A. pyrotechnicus Deby^ from the Monterey Shale of Cali-
fornia. Also under low magnifications and in oblique light the
diatom presents a mottled effect, especially when slightly out
of focus ; this appears to be due to irregularities of the inner
surface of the valve; at least no outward structure could be
detected from which it could be formed. Diameter .1131 mm.
Type: No. 1871, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Arroyo Hondo,
Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias Group), Mexico; collected
by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925; Miocene.
This species would seem to be little apt to be confused with
any other although it bears a general resemblance to A. pyro-
technicus Deby. It lacks the hyaline central pore of the latter,
and the shape is decidedly distinct as shown by the figures here-
with. Fortunately we have a perfect specimen of pyrotechni-
cus from the Maria Madre Island deposit for comparison.
2. Actinocyclus canestrus Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 11, figure 2
Valve with wide margin composed of closely-crowded beads
in diagonally curved rows running in two directions at angles
'In Rattray, Jouni. Quek. Micr. Clul>, ser. 2, Vol. 4, 1890, p. 144, pi. II. fig. l.v
