Jig CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
of about 60° to the radii ; the beads of this zone are very
minute near the margin and increase gradually in size inwardly
and without a definite boundary; disk with 17 radial rows of
round, large, closely-set beads, a short spine being at the mar-
ginal end of each row ; remainder of the disk uniformly dotted
with beads the same size as those of the rows but not arranged
in any definite formation; a very small central blank area;
ocellus very distinct and set a considerable distance from the
actual margin of the valve. Diameter .0690 mm.
Type: No. 1872, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Arroyo Hondo,
Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias Group), Mexico; collected
by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925 ; Miocene.
This species is definitely related to A. ralfsi but differs nota-
bly in the uniform beading on the disk and the absence of a
definite boundary, inwardly, of the marginal zone of small
beading.
3. Actinocyclus cubitus Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 11, figure 3
Valve small, broadly but uniformly convex; surface divided
into four parts ; each 90° sector with rows of heavy beads uni-
formly spaced and parallel to those radii which bisect the
sectors ; boundary of each sector with a conspicuous spine at
the margin; the center of one of the sectors marked with an
ocellus ; border wide and radiately striated. Diameter .030 mm.
Type: No. 1873, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Arroyo Hondo^
Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias Group), Mexico; collected
by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925; Miocene.
This beautiful little species has no close relative that we have
been able to find in the literature ; the above is a description of
the type specimen which is figured. Another in the collection
is exactly the same in all details except that it is divided into
six sectors instead of four. Since variation in number of
sectors is a common occurrence among the Actinocycli, no
significance is assumed to be represented by this difference.
