J22 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES IPkoc. 4th Seg.
8. Actinoptychus maculatus Grove & Sturt
Plate 11, figures 8, 9
Actinoptychus vulgaris Schumann var. maculata Grove & Sturt, Journ.
Quek. Micr. Club, Ser. 2, Vol. 3, 1887, p. 64, pi. 5, fig. 5; Oamaru,
New Zealand.— Schmidt, Atlas Diat., pi. 132, fig. 17, 1888.
Individuals of this species are not unconmion in the Maria
Madre Island dei>osit. They have the heavy secondary bead-
ing, large spines as shown by Schmidt and ten sectors. He
figures two other specimens from Oamaru, New Zealand (the
tyi>e locality), one with eight rays and a much larger one with
fourteen. Our specimen figured, No. 1878 (C.A.S. coll.), is
.0338 mm. in diameter ; another is .0368 mm. The photo-
graph on plate 11 was taken with the focus so adjusted that
the large maculations on the out-of-focus sectors do not show.
Therefore the drawing has been added to indicate this feature.
9. Actinoptychus perplexus Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 11, figures 10, 11
Valve circular, divided into six equal segments and a he.xa-
gonal hyaline area in the center ; under moderate magnification
the divisions between the segments appear as black bars and
the disk is covered with an irregular mottling of black on light
ground; with immersion objectives of N. A. 1.20 or more the
disk is found to be covered uniformly with two layers of
beads ; one of these, the uppermost in the type specimen, con-
sists of comparatively large rounded beads, rather indefinitely
arranged in two sets of rows set diagonally to the radii ; in the
other set the beads are about half as coarse and are much more
crowded, being poorly arranged in rows parallel to the radii;
the outer margin of each seginent bears a short spine in the
center and one of the segments has a comparatively large
ocellus. Diameter .0622 mm.
Type: No. 1879, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Arroyo Hondo,
Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias Group), Mexico; collected
by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925; Miocene.
The photographs show the markings of this si>ecies well
and they appear to be thoroughly diagnostic ; they require con-
siderable manipulation of the microscope for pro[)er study.
