2 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
Obviously, to reach these far distant and widely separated
islands and make a proper exploration of them, a very sub-
stantial and reliable vessel would be needed. This, the Acad-
emy does not possess, and all agreed that present charter rates
for such a ship would more than exhaust the limited amount
of funds which could be allotted each year to such purposes.
Two possibilities \vere suggested as means for the provision
of the necessary transportation. The first was to invite the
interest of some friend of the Academy who possessed a suita-
ble vessel. But in the absence of an}"- definite information re-
garding such a proposition it was dismissed as offering little
hope.
Knowing the willingness of the Navy Department to co-
operate in legitimate undertakings of scientific and public
interest, it was thought possible that, if the situation were fully
explained, a vessel might in that manner be secured for the
proposed exploration. y\pplication was therefore formally
made on January 15, 1925, to the Secretary of the Navy, Hon.
Curtis D. Wilbur by Dr. Barton Warren Evermann, Director
of the Academy. The following letter gave the essential details
of the proposition :
San Francisco, California,
January 15, 1925.
Hon. Curtis D. Wilbur,
Secretary of the Navy,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary :
The California Academy of Sciences has for many years been deeply
interested in the fauna, flora, and geology of the islands oflf the coast of
California, Mexico and South America. It has sent out in past years a
number of expeditions to various ones of these islands. In 1905-6, nearly
two years were devoted to a study of the Galapagos which added greatly
to the knowledge of those classic islands. In 1920 another party studied
the fauna and flora of the southern end of Lower California. In 1921 a
study extending over several months was made of all the islands in the
Gulf of California. In 1922, a similar expedition was sent to Guadalupe,
Cedros and other islands off the Pacific coast of Lower California. The
1921 and 1922 expeditions were made possible by the very helpful co-
operation of the Mexican Government, and did much toward establishing
pleasant relations between the scientific men and local officials of that
country and the scientific men of this country.
The Academy is now ready to enter upon a study of the Revillagigedos,
a group of four islands (Clarion, Socorro, San Benedicto and Roca Par-
