Vol. XV] HANNA & GRANT— MIOCENE MARIXE DIATOMS 125
The only species with which this striking fonn needs com-
parison is one illustrated by Schmidt^ from Campeche Bay,
Gulf of Mexico, and which he stated was "perhaps a new spe-
cies," but he did not name it. His figure 14, in particular, is
very close to the specimen figured herewith. He compared
these figures with A. egregia Ehrenberg,^" but an examination
of the original figure of that species shows a hopelessly inde-
terminate diatom in zonal view. Wolle,^^ however, copied
Schmidt's figures and referred them unconditionally to A.
egregia. Under such circumstances no course is possible for
us but to give our fossil a new name and recommend that the
name A. egregia be put in the list of indeterminates.
14. Arachnoidiscus manni Hanna & Grant, new name
Plate 12, figures 7-9
Arachnoidiscus ornatus montcreiana Schmidt, Atlas Diat., pi. 7Z, figs. 7-9,
Jan. 28, 1882; type loc. "Monterey," California, Miocene. Not
A. ehrenbergii montereyana Schmidt, Atlas Diat., pi. 68, fig. 2,
July 20, 1881 ; type loc. "Monterey," California, probably living.
Arachnoidiscus ornatus montcrcianns Hanna & Gaylord,. Bull. Am.
Assoc. Petrol Geol., Vol. 9, No. 2, 1925, pi. 5, fig. 2.
This is a common fossil diatom in the Miocene Monterey
Shale of California and has often been referred to as A.
ornatus. Schmidt detected the differences and named it but
unfortunately the name he gave had been used for a different
form on an earlier plate and montereiana must pass into
synonymy. Since it is a very important species and will un-
questionably be often referred to we take pleasure in naming
it after Dr. Albert Mann, the foremost diatomist of the United
States.
It is believed that the photographs reproduced herewith give
a better picture of this fossil form than any previous illustra-
tions w'ith the possible exception of those of Schmidt. As
usual in the genus there is considerable variation but the min-
uteness of the beads is a distinguishing feature. The speci-
mens figured from Arroyo Hondo. Maria Madre Island (Tres
'Atlas Diat., pi. 28, 1875. figs. 13-15.
'• Abhand. Kon. Acad. Wiss. Berlin, 1872, fig. 20.
" Diat. N. Amer., pi. 3, figs. 20, 21, pi. 4, fig. 1.
