J28 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
18. Aulacodiscus rellae Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 13, figures 5, 6
Valve circular, typically with five spines ; each spine set in
a hyaline area and this surrounded by a raised, convex ridge
on which there are ridges, radial from the spine ; central area
circular and hyaline, with narrow, hyaline, radial areas to each
spine; disk uniformly dotted with fine closely-set beads. The
area enclosed by the spines and a narrow marginal zone be-
tween the spines have sparsely, irregularly, arranged beads
about twice as large as those covering the disk ; neither more
nor fewer than five spines have been seen. Diameter .0539 mm.
Type: No. 1893, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Arroyo Hondo,
Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias Group), Mexico; collected
by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925 ; Miocene.
Only three species are known to us with which this strange
diatom needs comparison; A. barbadensis Ralfs^^ is closest,
but it has four spines only, the large, secondary beads are uni-
formly distributed over the disk and the spaces around the
spines are radially marked only on the outer sides; in A. rcllce
these spaces are marked completely around. A. circumdatus
Schmidt,^* from the Monterey Shale of California, likewise has
four spines, large secondary beads only in the center of the
disk, and the marginal zone is marked with some heavy dark
spine-like projections of silica. Another similar species is
A. notatus Grove & Sturt,^° from the fossil deposit at Oamaru.
New Zealand ; this has four hyaline spaces, each with a spine
and, like A. rellce, with radial markings all around; some
heavier beading is found in the central area but not elsewhere.
All three of the above mentioned species and A. petersi
Ehrenberg, form a group in Aulacodiscus, set apart by the
presence of large secondary beads on the disk.
The species is named for Mrs. Rella Grant in recognition of
much assistance rendered in the preparation of the illustrations
of this and other papers.
" Schmidt, Atlas Diat., pi. 146, fig. 5, 1890.
"Schmidt, Atlas Diat., pi. 35, fig. 5, 1876.
"Tourn. Quek. Micr. Club. Ser. 2. Vol. 3. 1887, p. 9, pi. 3, fig. 11.
