]^32 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
without spines and ornamented with beads similar to the valve
but growing progressively smaller, outwardly. Length along
one margin, .0337 mm.
Type: No. 1898, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Arroyo Hondo,
Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias Group), Mexico; collected
by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925 ; Miocene.
The species is apparently closest to B. montereyi but is much
smaller and has far fewer markings on the valve. It is named
for the late Mr. Eric Knight Jordan, at the time of his death
assistant curator of paleontology, California Academy of
Sciences, and a member of the Academy's expedition of 1925.
26. Biddulphia penitens Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 14, figures 4, 5
Valve quadrangular, apices rounded, sides gently concave;
margin narrow, hyaline; markings consist of rows of beads
radiating from margin toward center, the rows being widely
spaced and beads decreasing in size on the corners; about 15
rows of beads of uniform size on each side; the beads become
much scarcer in the center of the valve where they form an
indistinct rosette. Length of one side of type .0435 mm. ; of
paratype .070 mm.
Type: No. 1902, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Arroyo Hondo,
Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias Group), Mexico; collected
by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925 ; Miocene.
The species is marked similarly to B. parallela (Greville)
and its triangular forms, ^° but that species has convex mar-
gins instead of concave. The form named B. parallela coloni-
ensis (Grunow), by Schmidt"^ from Colon, Panama, comes
closest to our specimens but the latter have much heavier beads
and there is a decided break between the beading of the central
zone and the remainder of the valve ; such a division does not
appear in Schmidt's figure.
27. Biddulphia riedyi Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 14, figure 6
Valve, triangular, sides straight, angles acutely pointed;
each corner is occupied by a blunt projection, densely but
•• See Schmidt, Atlas Diat., pi. 75, 1882, figs. 3-S and 11-12.
=" Atlas, pi. 81, 1885, fig. 1.
