134 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
The specimen figured, No. 1905 (C.A.S. coll.) . is .080 mm. in
length, and .040 mm. in width when in the position in which
it was placed when the photograph was taken.
29. Campylodiscus prentissi Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 14, figure 8
Valve broad, almost circular in vertical view ; deeply saddle-
shaped; divided on each side of a median section into 10 wide
compartments separated by simple bars of silica, curved
toward each end of the valve and each one bifurcate on the
outer end ; median section with parallel sides formed by breaks
in the transverse bars, which, however, continue across the
middle; between each pair of bars at the side of the median
section there is an oblong bead ; no fine markings could be
discovered with a numerical aperture up to .95. Length along
median line of type .0426 mm. ; breadth at right angles to
median line .0422 mm.
Type: No. 1906, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Arroyo Hondo,
Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias Group), Mexico; collected
by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925 ; Miocene.
This coarsely marked species is not recorded in any of the
literature at our command, and is not closely approached by
any other. It has been named for Mr. Charles W. Prentiss of
San Francisco, California, an enthusiastic preparer of diatoms.
30. Cerataulus imperator Hanna & Grant, new species
Plate 14, figure 9
Valve broadly oval, very convex, border narrow ; horns
long cylindrical, blunt and hyaline on top; spines absent; disk
covered with heavy beading arranged radially near the mar-
gin but irregularly elsewhere; the beads over the greater por-
tion are grouped in such a manner that the valve has a dis-
orderly reticulate network-appearance under low magnifica-
tion, markings similar in many ways to those of Eupodiscus
rogersii. Length .1264 mm.; breadth .0936 mm.
Type: No. 1907, Mus. Calif. Acad. Sci., from Arroyo Hondo,
Maria Madre Island (Tres Marias Group), Mexico; collected
by Hanna & Jordan, May, 1925 ; Miocene.
