78 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The cutting out of all cankerous poles and stems is to be
recommended at the time of making thinnings, and even special
fellings should take place with this object when the disease is
frequent in any crop ; the removal of the twig-clusters, by means
of which the disease is reproduced and extended, should also be
carried out as far as possible.
The Pine-shoot Fungus (Caeoma pinitorquum) principally attacks
young Pine woods of 1 to 10 years of age, although young crops
up to about thirty years old are liable to be attacked. Pale yellow
spots, bearing the spermogonia of the fungus, make their appear-
ance about the beginning of June on the green epidermis of the
young shoots. With the development of the sporophore under the
bark, this is raised up in pustules, and finally fissures longitudinally,
whilst the cellular tissue dies as far down as the woody fibrous tissue
below the spore-bearer's. At the diseased place the shoot assumes
somewhat the shape of S, but raises itself again at the apex.
When this process is repeated, as can be particularly favoured by
damp weather in May and June, the Pines often become com-
pletely deformed, a portion of the shoots dies off, and the young
plants have somewhat the appearance of having been badly
damaged by late frost.
The removal of any Aspen that may be growing in Pine woods
affected with this disease is recommended, as the Poplar rust
(Melampsora Tremulte) occurring on the leaves of the Aspen is
considered the cause of the pine-twisting. 1
The Tree-fungi (Polyporus) are partly saprophytic, living only
on dead wood, partly also true parasites, and causes of disease and
rotting of timber. In this latter case their mycelium develops in
the interior of the stem, whilst the well-known spore-beds of different
shapes, often bracket-like, are situated on the outside of the stem.
The timely removal of trees thus infected with fungus is advisable,
not only in order to have any use from the timler itself, but also
to prevent the further spread of the disease through the forma-
tion and scattering of spores.
Canker of the Larch (Peziza WillJcommii) is a very widespread
disease, causing the sickening and death of many Larches, and,
according to Hartig's opinion, the chief reason of the unfortunate
1 The Caeoma is polymorphous, the spores of C. pinitorquum producing
Melampsora tremulx with the Aspen as a host, whilst the Teleuto-spores of the lat
form of the fungus cause infection with C. pinitwquum in the following spring. j
