DAMAGE CAUSED BY PLANTS. 79
results that have in many places been achieved with the cultiva-
tion of this species. On the spores germinating, the mycelium
enters under the bark wherever it can find any damaged place,
resulting from hail, insects, bending of the branches under ice, &c. ;
it then penetrates into the woody-tissue and kills the portion
attacked, whilst the cankerous spot makes itself outwardly visible
by the bursting of the bark and an outflow of turpentine. Small
cup-shaped fungi, with bright red receptacles, also appear on the
infected places, indicating the cause of the disease. If the
cankerous spot be large, and finally extends itself all round the
circumference of young trees, the stem dies off above the diseased
ring; but when it only extends partially round, the stem may
continue alive for decades.
The wide distribution which this fungus has obtained in low-
lying tracts and uplands, in contrast to its much less frequent
occurrence, and much less dangerous results, in the true alpine
home of the Larch, Hartig thinks can be explained by the
fact, that in the damper, stagnating atmosphere of dense forests
in close canopy, into which the Larch has been introduced as a
subordinate species, the fungi at the infected parts attain a
more luxuriant development, and the spores ripen to a greater
extent. In the dense forests good opportunities are given to the
spores of finding and making use of a germinating bed, whereas in
the light, open Larch forests of the Alps, constantly exposed to
currents of air, the fruits of the fungus generally dry up with-
, out attaining maturity.
That in damp coombs, hollows, and similar situations, the
Larch suffers to a very great extent from the disease caused by
this fungus, is well known ; hence the best way to prevent its occur-
[ rence will lie in the avoidance of such unsuitable localities, and
in growing the Larch in mixed forests, by means of giving it some
advantage in growth to start with.
The Pine fungus (Trametes pini) is much more common in the
Pine forests of northern than in those of southern Germany, and
; occurs also, although to a less extent, on Spruce, Larch, and Silver
I Fir, producing ring-shakes or heart-shakes extending downwards
I from the crown. It generally occasions rapid decomposition of
I the timber, owing to the mycelium developing in the wood : it
betrays its presence in the stem through its brown, woody, mostly
bracket-like receptacles or spore-producers. The immediate re-
