DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 83
particular, is a much more difficult task, which can often only
be accomplished with the aid of nature herself.
a. THE DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
44. Damage done ly Grazing Animals.
The damage that may be done to woods by the driving in of
Horses, Goats, Sheep, and Cattle for grazing purposes, consists in
the nibbling of buds, leaves, and young shoots, the gnawing and
stripping of bark, the injury of roots from the rough pressure of
the hard hoofs and horny feet of heavy animals, the forcible bend-
ing back of young growth and stronger plants, the dislodging of
soil on slopes, the stamping down of damp and heavy soils, the
loosening of light sandy soil, and finally the damage done to
drains and protective ditches.
But these different species of damage vary greatly in extent,
according to the class of animal driven in for grazing.
Of all the above animals goats do most injury, for they appear
naturally to enjoy grazing on foliage, buds, and the young shoots
of woody fibrous plants, in preference to grass and weeds, even
when the latter are mnch more abundant. And as they can
reach higli up by standing on their hind-legs, even the crowns of
sturdy saplings are not safe from their attacks. The destruction
of the forests in many of the mountainous tracts of the Tyrol,
Switzerland, Istrya, and Greece, is in no small degree attributable
to the unrestricted grazing of herds of goats, which has rendered
impossible the natural reproduction of areas that had been cleared
of mature crops.
Although not so frequently driven into the woods for grazing,
and generally in less numerous droves, horses disdain the rank
grass growing on loose woodland soil, and prefer to crop the short
meadow-like grass on sward and along old roads. But at the same
time they are very fond of the foliage and the young succulent
shoots of saplings, which, on account of their size, they can strip
from a considerable height ; young horses also love to gnaw the
bark. With their heavy tread, and their iron-shod hoofs, they
also do a good deal of damage to the shallow, superficial roots, as
well as injury to young seedling growth.
Although fond of nibbling the grasses on the soil, sheep show a
certain relationship with goats in their love of gnawing and
