84 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
browsing on woody fibrous plants, and consequently do a consider-
able amount of damage when they are frequently grazed over the
same place, especially in regard to the breaking up of loose soil
with a thin growth of grass or binding weeds.
But on the other hand cattle, which from the remotest times
were driven in the largest numbers into the woods, differ from
the two already named kinds of animals, in their decided pre-
ference for soil-grazing, and only attack woody fibrous growth
when there is a dearth of that ; still they browse on it also, so
long as the leaves and shoots are young and succulent, bending
down strong saplings under their chests in order to get at the
crowns, and being fond of rubbing themselves against poles and
sturdy transplants put out on grazing lands. From the heavy
pressure of their feet they loosen and easily dislodge the soil on
slopes, damage young growth by treading on them, and often
tear out the plant along with the earth held by its roots ; where
they are often herded in woodlands, they stamp down the earth
wherever they may be penned.
Young animals of each of the above-named kinds do more
damage to the woods than old beasts; for even when there is
plenty of grass, they nibble and gnaw the woody fibrous growth,
partly out of pure mischief and excess of spirits, and partly to
assist the operation of teething, when changing their teeth. When
cattle in poor condition are driven into woods for grazing after
having had poor supplies of fodder throughout the winter,
do all the more damage to the young seedling growth and planl
tions, as they partake, without much choice, of all the nourisl
ment coming within their reach.
Endeavours have been made to classify grazing animals wit
respect to their injuriousness, but this is to a certain extei
difficult, for the sum-total of the damage done depends on a whol
chain of other circumstances as well as merely the kind of anil
grazed ; hence in some cases one sort, and in other cases anoth<
kind, may do the greater amount of injury. But on the whol
the most correct approximate sequence of injuriousness is,
Horse, Sheep, and lastly Cattle.
45. Factors determining tlu Extent of the Damage done.
As has already been remarked above, the occurrence of extei
sive damage at all, and the extent to which it may be committ
