DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 87
them off from the stools. In Copse, or coppice under standards,
much the same happens as in coppice-woods, and only saplings
of seedling growth are liable to be much damaged by grazing.
When herds have been driven into the woods too early in
spring, before sufficient grass has come up, or have been kept
there too late into the autumn, after the grass has grown hard
and untoothsome, or if they have been allowed to go in in too
large numbers relatively to the grazing area, or if they have been
allowed to graze too long in any one portion of the woods, so that
the grass browsed on has not had time to grow again sufficiently,
then naturally more damage is done by the herds to the young
woodland growth. It has also been noted that herds prefer the
foliage of young growth to grass during wet weather, which is no
doubt due to the more rapid drying of the former.
46. Protective Measures advisable in regard to Grazing.
The best means of preventing damage from grazing consist in
the following measures, of which the first three are in many
countries imposed on all proprietors of woodlands by rules, framed
under Forest Acts, and having the force of law :
1. The closing of Falls bearing Young Crops. How long the
protective time should last is of course dependent on the species
of crop, the conditions of its growth, and the nature of the grazing ;
but in any case protection must at least be given until the young-
woods have outgrown the reach of the cattle. The protected
areas are usually distinguished by some well-known mark or
visible sign, like wisps of straw bound to poles stuck in the
ground, or by means of boards with the notice " Grazing
forbidden!'
2. Adequate Supervision. Grazing should only be permitted
under the supervision of a herdsman, with one or two lads under
him in the case of large herds. In some localities it is prescribed
j that all the cattle, or at anyrate the majority of the animals,
; must be provided with bells attached to their necks, so that cases
I of straying away from the herd, or getting lost in grassy planta-
i tions, may the more easily be prevented or discovered.
3. Prohibition of Grazing during the Night. As supervision
is impossible during the night-time, grazing should neither be
! allowed before sunrise nor after sundown.
