88 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
4. Grazing herds should not be driven into the woods too soon in
spring, nor should they consist of a more numerous head of
animals than is likely to be amply provided with fodder from
the area, whilst, at the same time, there should be a regular and
adequate change in the localities grazed over. Too long-continued
grazing in autumn, after the grass has begun to dry up and wither,
should also be avoided.
5. Grazing paths, green lanes, or drives should be kept clear
where large herds are in the habit of being led out and back ; and
where they pass through young woods, these green lanes should
either have ditches at each side, or else be fenced off with poles.
This latter method should, at the same time, be adopted to pro-
tect, as well as possible, young woodland growth where it marches
with the land that is being grazed over.
6. When put out on grazing land, saplings should "be protected
by being bound round with thorns, or by means of three poles
inserted triangularly, and secured so as to keep off the animals
from the stem.
7. Where injuries are to be feared from the treading and
tramping of the cattle, the intervals between grazing should be
longer, as also on steep slopes during damp weather, favouring the
loosening and dislodgment of the soil.
It may also, in a general way, be remarked that woodland
grazing has now lost much of the importance it once had agri-
culturally. The acknowledged superiority of stall-feeding, the
increase in the number of, and the improvement in, the meadows,
and the cultivation of feeding-stuffs, have in many localities
almost caused woodland grazing to be a thing of the past. It is
only in mountainous districts that it is still of some importance,
where the rearing of cattle is extensively engaged in, and where
there is usually a dearth of meadow-land ; but there the freshness
of the soil on the one hand, and the atmospheric humidity on
the other, combine to produce a lively growth of grass within the
forests. In such places woodland grazing is still carried on to a
considerable extent, and very often without the enforcement of
any of the above-mentioned protective precautions ; for whilst the
rich growth of grass and the usual crops of conifers tend to
minimise the damage done, the injury done to the forests is of
less importance from a national economic point of view than the
maintenance of the cattle-rearing industry.
