90 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
may consume a larger quantity of mast than is desirable, before
they begin to wallow and break up the soil to any extent. Too
early a commencement of herding, before the acorns and beech-
nuts have begun to fall, and too large herds proportionately to
the area at disposal for feeding over, increase the likelihood of
damage being done to the roots of seedling growth already on the
ground.
like the grazing of sheep and cattle, the driving in of swine
for pannage in the woods, formerly of considerable importance,
has lost much of its earlier consequence. It is in many parts
practically in abeyance, partly on account of the more extensive
cultivation of the nutritious potato, and partly also as the result
of the shrinkage in the area now under Oak and Beech wood-
lands ; and with this shrinkage the danger of damage to the woods
from this particular form of minor utilisation has of course pro-
portionately decreased.
b. THE ANIMALS OF THE CHASE.
48. Damage done ly Game.
The animals of the chase that inflict injuries on our woodlands
comprise red, fallow, and roe deer (wild-boar in Germany), hares
and rabbits ; but the nature and extent of the damage done varies
essentially, according to the kind of game doing it.
(a) The damage done to woods by Red-deer (Cervus elapkus)
consists partly in biting off the buds and young shoots of most
species of trees, thereby causing the immediate death of young
plants, and when often repeated, crippling and stunting older
plants, and interfering completely with their normal development ;
under any circumstances, plants are always more or less injuriously
affected. Deer also eagerly devour acorns and beech-nuts, as
well as their cotyledons after germination of the seedlings, and
are endowed with considerable skill in finding out the seed in
areas undergoing reproduction, and in turning it up out of the
ground. When rubbing the velvet from their antlers in early
summer, or when striking during the rutting season, the saplings
or poles, on which both operations are carried out, are more or
less denuded of their bark, and sometimes injured to a fatal extent.
Ked-deer can also do a considerable amount of damage by
treading down and injuring young seedling growth, especial
