DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 91
where cultural operations have been carried out in strips or bands.
On hill-sides and undulating ground they prefer to follow the
horizontal lines formed by the strips on which sowing has taken
place ; and when once a run has been frequented by -a herd of deer
for any length of time, the damage done may be very considerable.
And last of all, great damage is done in many places by deer
stripping or peeling off' the bark of trees, a process that, on
account of its special peculiarity and its importance, will be treated
of in a section by itself (vide 51).
(b) Fallow-deer (Dama vulgaris) do somewhat similar damage
to that committed by red-deer in biting plants, devouring Oak
and Beech mast, and rubbing off bark when cleaning their antlers
and when rutting ; but, on the other hand, they only exceptionally
peel off* the bark with their teeth when the head of game is very
strong in deer-parks, whilst in the freedom of the open woods
they do not indulge in it at all.
(c) Roe-deer (Cervus capreolus) also nibble and browse on the
buds and tender shoots of many species of trees, and devour
acorns and beech-nuts, but never strip off the bark for food.
Eoe-buck, however, do a good deal of damage by cleaning off the
velvet from their horns, and in doing so exhibit a very stong
preference for the species of trees of more infrequent occurrence,
selecting Larch, Silver Fir, Weymouth Pine, Acacias, &c., that
have been interspersed among other ruling species, or planted along
the fringe of compartments, drives, green lanes, and the like.
Where a strong head of roe- deer is maintained, the rearing of these
subordinate species of trees is often only possible when special
measures are adopted to secure them against the bucks.
(d) Wild-boar (Sus scrofa) are particularly fond of acorns and
beech-mast, as well as of seedlings with the cotyledons attached,
and of the succulent rootlets ; but they also often do very consi-
derable damage in young seedling crops and plantations, especially
of the broad-leaved species, whilst breaking up the soil with their
snouts in quest of insects and grubs. By thus destroying the
larvse and chrysalides of insects in the soil, they at the same time
do a considerable amount of good, and particularly in coniferous
forests, which are most exposed to attacks from dangerous insect
enemies. The breaking-up of the soil by wild-pigs here and there
in certain crops not infrequently indicates to the observant forester
the presence of injurious insects in the ground.
