92 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
(e) The damage done by Hares consists in the nibbling of the
buds of broad-leaved species, less frequently of conifers, and the
gnawing of the bark of certain species, above all the Acacia, and
then the Beech and fruit trees; but this gnawing of the bark
usually only takes place in hard winters, when there is a decided
want of other nourishment. Hares can be very troublesome by
infesting nurseries and enclosures for raising seedlings.
(/) Rabbits do very much the same sort of injury as hares, by
nibbling buds and young plants (even one-year-old Scots Pine),
but occasionally cause somewhat greater damage by gnawing the
bark, particularly of Beech, Hornbeam, Acacia, Oak, and Larch,
whilst in young plantations they can cause a good deal of injury
and annoyance by undermining the soil with their burrows. In
consequence of their prolificness and rapid increase, and of their
maintaining themselves permanently on one and the same area,
the damage done is often very much felt, so that in falls and crops
near rabbit-warrens there are often blanks which it is uncommonly
difficult to fill up.
(49.) Factors determining the Extent of the Damage done ly Game.
The extent of the damage that may be caused by game is de-
pendent on many different circumstances. As has already been
stated in the foregoing paragraph, it varies with the species of
game, and still more according to the strength of the head main-
tained, the conditions relative to nourishment and fodder avail-
able for the game, and finally the species of trees and the sylvi-
cultural treatment given to the crops.
A large head of game invariably leads to much greater damage
proportionately, as may especially be noted in deer-parks, where
also the greater frequency of stripping the bark cannot fail to be
noted. So long as the deer have a sufficiency of green food in
summer, whether supplied by succulent wild grasses, meadows,
young field crops, or mast-bearing trees, and a suitable supply of
fodder during winter, they will be much less likely to attack young
woodland growth than under exactly the opposite circumstances.
But the extent to which the different species of trees are
attacked by deer, and the amount of damage done by browsing
on them, varies very considerably, as does also their recuperative
power in healing the wounds inflicted. Amongst conifers, the
