DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 93
Silver Fir suffers most, but is at the same time the best endowed
with recuperative capacity, whilst the Scots Pine, which is much
less liable to be injured, is speedily interfered with in growth
and development by being nibbled. Although in 'general more
liable to be bitten and grazed on, the broad -leaved species of
trees possess at the same time a superior reproductive power :
Oak, Maple, Sycamore, Ash, and Beech are for the most part
grazed on, whilst softwoods suffer more from rubbing with the
antlers during early and late summer. Alder and Birch suffer
least of all in either respect, as they are only exceptionally
selected by deer for either purpose. Subordinate species of trees,
merely sprinkled or interspersed among other ruling species, are
most exposed to nibbling, as, for example, conifers, even including
Scots Pine, scattered throughout seedling crops of Beech.
The succulent stoles and stool-shoots in coppice-hags are specially
liable to be browsed on during the winter months; but, on the
other hand, they grow beyond the reach of the deer much sooner
than the seedling growth of young high-forest, so that any
j damage inflicted on the shoots hardly affects their quality as fuel,
whereas high-forest is the method of treatment most likely to
suffer permanently from any injuries received.
But in addition to the above-named direct results of injuries
to the woods, there are also certain indirect consequences. Among
these are the necessity for protecting the acorns and beech-mast
by storing them throughout the winter, which cannot be done
without some outlay, the impossibility of reproducing the Oak by
the dibbling in of acorns, which necessitates a heavier outlay for
[planting, the hindrance occasioned by red-deer to the artificial
linterspersion of Silver Fir throughout crops of Spruce, owing to
jtheir being sought out for nibbling, &c. The extent, to which
these dangers exist, varies so much with circumstances, that it is
(equally impossible either to estimate the indirect consequences or
jto express the direct results numerically.
(50.) Preventive and Protective Measures.
The means through which injuries to woodlands by the above-
mentioned animals of the chase can be, so far as possible, hindered,
}r at any rate minimised, are partly of a preventive nature, having
Deference to adequate nourishment of the herds, or to keeping
