96 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
strength ; where the game consists only of roe-deer and hares, the
seedling beds of broad-leaved species and Silver Fir will at any-
rate need protection. But where the head of game of the latter
kinds is comparatively small, poles laid across the beds, or feathers
or rags hung on strings, are often all that is necessary to keep
them off. For rabbits, a thick, close fence is necessary. Broad-
leaved seedlings that have been gnawed round about by hares or
rabbits should be cut back to the root ; but fruit-trees and the more
valuable species require to be protected against their attacks by
binding thorns or rough brushwood round the stems.
51. Damage done "by Red-deer in Stripping the Bark.
The peeling of the Eind of young smooth -barked species of
broad-leaved and coniferous poles by red-deer, as previously
remarked, fallow-deer only do this exceptionally, in parks where
a large head of game is maintained, either takes place in winter
in the shape of gnawing the bark at about the height of the
animal's head, or higher when there is much snow on the ground,
(in which case the marks of the teeth are plainly apparent on the
damaged stems, with narrow lines of bark and cambium between
the indentations), or else it occurs in spring and summer, when the
sap is in flow. In this summer-stripping the deer bite through
the bark at whatever height their head may happen to be, ai
then, holding it firmly between their teeth and moving back at tl
same time, tear or strip off huge portions of the rind, occasional]
more than half the circumference of the stem in breadth, whicl
gradually becoming narrower and more wedge-shaped, at last pai
from the stem, often at a considerable height, and is then coi
pletely devoured by the deer. Naturally, these injuries inflict*
by barking the poles in summer do far more permanent danii
than the comparatively slight injuries inflicted by gnawing duri]
winter.
This fact was first mentioned in German forest literature aboi
the middle of last century with reference to the Spruce forests
the Harz Mountains. But it has gradually gained in importai
down to the present, and in many localities, especially in deer-parl
it has assumed such proportions as most materially to reduce tl
outturn from Spruce woods, which suffer most in this way. The
reason for bark-peeling in winter is doubtless, for the most par
