98 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
rough bark. The danger begins when the thickets are clearing
themselves, becomes imminent at the time of the first thinning of
the crop, and especially so with regard to the dominating poles,
whilst the backward growth, still rough with twigs, is threatened
to a much less extent. Crops of inferior development are not so
much attacked, owing to the presence of twigs and branches, and
the consequent coarseness of the bark. Stripping does not take
place everywhere ; it occurs chiefly in deer-parks, or wherever the
deer are hindered by fences from having access to fields. Where
a large head of game is inadequately provided with natural graz-
ing, and largely fed on hay and similar fodder, the damage as-
sumes much larger proportions than when a moderate head of deer
is maintained in the open. In mountainous tracts, where the game
can roam about at will, and where there is richer and more varied
grazing, damage from peeling the bark is seldom noticeable, even
with large herds of deer.
Among the Preventive measures may be comprised the avoidance
of giving hay exclusively as fodder during the winter months,
and care generally in providing a moderate head of game with a
sufficiency of suitable nourishment. In young Spruce plantations
the putting out of seedlings in wisps of 3 to 5 has been found
beneficial, as the middle plants have a certain amount of pro-
tection. Although, both from a financial and an aesthetic point
of view, not suited for application on an extensive scale, the
smearing of individual stems and patches or groups of valuable
species with substances having a bad smell and taste is also
efficacious. The formation of numerous salt-licks has also be*
recommended as a protective measure against stripping of tl
bark, and an admixture of Holfeld's feeding-powder for deer 1
hoped to cure the tendency completely, which has unfortunate
not been the case.
Reuss has recently recommended a plan which he has found to
yield good results, namely, binding twigs round the predominating
stems most exposed to danger. The wealth of twigs littering the
ground at the time of the first thinning-out taking place is made
use of for this purpose : one labourer piles up a bundle of fairly
long twigs by laying them one over the other round the stem, with
1 According to Holfeld's receipt, it is composed as follows : 25 parts Turkish
Gall apples, 25 parts Oak bark, 20 parts Aniseed or Fennel, 10 parts Sniyrniuin, 10
parts Violet root, 10 parts Foenigrec (Famum graecum). To these add 40 parts salt
and 10 parts of pure Bone-meal. The hundredweight comes to about 50s. in cost.
