100 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
extraordinary rapidity), in a very considerable degree, whilst un-
favourable weather, like violent downpours of rain, and a long-
continued cold damp time in summer, hard frost without snow,
or rain followed by frost in winter, not only interfere with their
prolificness, but also often cause excessive swarms of them to dis-
appear in a short time.
Mice always love a certain amount of protection, such as is
afforded by scrub, dense seedling growth, a tangle of grasses, and
thick layer of fallen leaves. Any sort of protective soil-cover-
ing tends greatly to increase their numbers and reproductive
power. Young crops and plantations with strong growth of grass
are their favourite place of abode, partly for the protection they
afford, partly also because there they find rich supplies of reserve
material stored up in the roots of perennial and biennial grasses
and weeds ; but older woods are avoided when once the mast
has been devoured, unless there is a thick mantle of fallen leaves
on the soil. When a layer of twigs or dead foliage is spread over
seed-beds to protect the seed, this is of itself enough to attract
mice.
The damage done by mice in woodlands consists, as has above
been briefly mentioned, in the destruction of mast and seed, and
in gnawing of the bark and roots.
Of the seeds of forest trees, it is particularly acorns and beech-
nuts, also chestnuts, lime, and hornbeam seed that chiefly atti
mice, whilst the seed of other kinds of broad-leaved trees, ai
still more that of conifers, is less exposed to danger. Pii
Spruce, and Larch seed are occasionally, it is true, devoured,
Silver Fir seed appears to be protected by the turpentine whi<
it contains. As might be expected, sowings made in autumn
most likely to suffer during the winter, especially when Oak
Beech mast has been sown in strips or lines. The damage done
in seed-beds and nurseries is often very considerable, whilst the
extent of the injury inflicted in natural reproductions of the
Beech is less noticeable, although it can also often become
somewhat serious.
So long as the bark is still young and tender it is eagerly
devoured as nourishment by several species of mice; the joints
that suffer most are Beech, Hornbeam, Oak, and Ash, and in
a less degree the conifers, the Silver Fir indeed only exception-
ally, then lastly Acacia and Sweet Chestnut. But in this
