DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 101
the various species of mice exhibit very different tastes ; they also
make their attacks at very different heights above the ground,
some commencing quite close to the soil, others a little way above
it, others again only after having climbed some way up the tree.
On plants of fair size the gnawing often takes place on one
side only, often also all the way round the bole, and increases in
proportion as the size of the plant diminishes, until it attains the
complete biting through of the stem ; one and two year-old Spruce
plants in seed-beds are often sheared off in whole rows. But as
soon as the plants get larger, and the bark becomes thicker, the
less is the latter likely to be nibbled and gnawed at.
In gnawing the roots, Arvicola amphibius is the chief offender,
to whose attacks Oak and Ash are especially exposed. But in
seed-beds, on which there is no loose protective covering of soil
compelling the mice to a more underground existence, the other
species of voles are also apt to commit injuries by gnawing the
rootlets.
53. Preventive and Protective Measures.
Damage by mice may to a greater or less extent be prevented
by measures hindering their numerical increase, as well as by pro-
tecting the objects of their attacks.
With a view to the first of these, all mice-devouring birds and
animals, Owls, Buzzards, Crows, Hedgehogs, Weasels, Porcupines,
Martens, Badgers, and Foxes should be protected, although at the
same time it must be pointed out that the interests of sport will
suffer by any great conservation of these birds and animals of prey.
Attempts should also be made to disturb the breeding-places
of the mice by the removal of whatever growth of grass and
scrub may be utilised as bedding material, and by maintaining
density of canopy overhead so as to prevent the growth of grass.
The herding of Swine is greatly to be recommended, as in wallow-
ing, and breaking up the soil with their snouts, they disturb the
nests and the runs of the mice, which they eagerly devour ; even
the grazing of cattle is of use in keeping down the growth of
grass and disturbing the mice, whilst many runs and nests are
destroyed under their heavy tread.
Other preventive measures also include the formation of seed-
beds and nurseries, in which mice can be especially troublesome,
only at some distance from fields and young woods whence they
