102 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
are likely to migrate, and the encircling of such nurseries with
sufficiently deep protective ditches, whose walls should be as
nearly perpendicular as possible, and along whose bottom pots
full of water should be let into the ground, at suitable distances
apart. Even surrounding seed-beds in autumn with a girdle or
band of asphalt-paper 4 to 8 inches in breadth, held upright in the
ground by short wooden pegs, has proved of great use, whilst
smearing the bark of the little stems of the more valuable species
of trees with asphalt-tar has also proved a protection against
gnawing. For this last-named purpose Altum recommends the
use of the patent tar or glue employed against some kinds of
caterpillars (vide note on page 126).
If mice are at all numerous, the sowing of acorns or beech-
nuts should not be carried out until spring, the mast being
stored throughout the winter in protected places. Covering the
seed-beds with tanning bark and Spruce twigs, and besprinkling
of the acorns with finely chopped Juniper twigs before they receive
the soil-covering on the seed-beds, have also proved efficacious.
The formation of ditches with steep walls along the edge of fields,
whence immigration is to be feared in autumn, has likewise been
tried with more or less successful results.
But finally, especially in young Beech woods apt to suffer
severely from gnawing, the laying down upon the ground of young
stoles, stool-shoots, and advance growth of soft-woods, or any othe
species of trees, and of brushwood from the parent standards
when felled, is often a very good means of protecting the younj
seedling growth. For their own convenience, the mice prefer
gnaw material lying on the ground to what is still standing
upright, whilst at the same time the buds of the Beech twi<
afford them a very toothsome nourishment, in the enjoyment of
which their likelihood of doing damage is materially diminished,
and occasionally, indeed, entirely obviated. When such material
is collected in heaps throughout young crops which are specially
exposed to danger, the mice congregate in large numbers in their
neighbourhood, enjoying both their shelter and the nourishment
offered by them ; an exceptionally good opportunity is thus also
given for poisoning the mice with wheat soaked in a solution of
strychnine or phosphorus, and laid in drain -pipes scattered loosely
in the vicinity of the heaps. Great caution is, however, always
necessary in the use of poison.
