104 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
of squirrels. They eat out the former from seedlings in nursery-
beds as well as from larger transplants, and even bite through the
leading-shoots so as to get at the buds. In order to obtain the
flowering buds, and they are especially fond of the male buds of
the Spruce, they bite off the thin twigs on which the buds are
situated, eat out the latter, and then let the sprays drop to the
ground. Such bitten and nibbled twigs or cast sprays, of about a
finger's length in size, are often to be found lying in large numbers
under old Spruce trees. The male flowering buds of the Oak and
Beech are also devoured in great numbers by squirrels, and per-
haps also the female buds, but this has not been so authoritatively
settled.
Squirrels also love to peel the soft, sappy bark from young
conifers in spring, and to a less extent from broad-leaved species
too, scaling it off in small patches from the upper parts of
the stem, biting through the rind, and sucking or licking the sap,
so that slender stems are injured to no slight extent by the
damage done to the bark. In some places, indeed, the injuries
thus done to Larch, Pine, and Spruce poles, and exceptionally
even to the Oak, have been very considerable.
The robbing of nests by squirrels may be regarded as an
indirect injury, for they steal the young brood from the nests, and
thus destroy no small number of birds that would otherwise have
been of use throughout the woodlands ; and at the same time, any
good they may do directly by feeding on various kinds of injurious
insects (as, for example, the chrysalides of saw-flies), is but small
Wherever there is any excess of squirrels they should
be shot down energetically, which can easily be done by game-
keepers and subordinate foresters without any practical dilli-
culty.
Of tbe tree-mice, the common Dormouse (Myoxus glis) is
commoner in warm southern lands, whilst the Hazel or Garden
Dormouse (Myoxus avellanarius) is more frequent in cold northern
tracts. In addition to devouring tree-seeds, they are charncirr-
ised by generally gnawing the bark in a circular manner, par-
ticularly the rind of the Beech, but also that of the Silver Kir
and the Larch ; hence in years when the tree-mice are numerous,
the damage done can be very perceptible. General protective
measures are hardly applicable; they consist usually in catching
the little animals in traps, for their nocturnal habits contribute
