DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 105
along with their small size to preclude the advisability of shoot-
ing them. 1
B. BIRDS (Aves).
55. Damage caused ly Birds.
The disadvantages which accrue to our woodlands through birds
are on the whole slight, and are certainly much more than
counterbalanced by the advantages gained through their destruc-
tion of insects injurious to the trees forming the timber crops.
But, at the same time, the damage occasionally done is of such a
nature as to render protective measures advisable.
Among the classes of birds that may be named as injurious are
the following :
The Capercaillie, Capercailzie, 2 or Cock of the wood (Tetrao uro-
gallus), which obtains its chief nourishment during winter and
spring from the buds and needles of conifers, does a good deal of
damage in nurseries and seed-beds, although the results are other-
wise hardly appreciable in the open forest. During the course of
the winter months one single bird can injure a very large number
of seedlings and young plants by pecking out the terminal buds, more
especially as they usually keep more or less to one feeding-place.
The Silver Fir seems most of all exposed to danger, for not only
the buds, but also the needles, are eagerly devoured by this bird.
Black Grouse or Blackcock (Tetrao tetrix) and similar game
birds do comparatively little damage to woodlands, as, although
attacking the buds and the male catkins of Birch, Hazel, &c., they
feed more on berries and seeds.
Culvers, Doves, or Pigeons, including the Cushat, Ring-dove, or
Wood-pigeon (Columba palumbus), the Stock-dove or Wood-dove (C.
wnas), and the Turtle-dove (Turtur auritus), consume a good many
seeds of the coniferous species, and the two larger kinds even
accrns and beech-nuts, so that when, during the migratory period,
they assemble in large numbers at the time of sowing in spring,
sowings made in the open run considerable risk ; but this is less
the case in nurseries, in which the seed-beds are generally some-
what protected in one way or another not applicable to extensive
areas.
1 Hess, Forstschutz, vol. i., 1887, page 144, states that in Carinthia, in good beech-
mast years, as many as 800,000 tree-mice have been caught in one year.
2 Now a rare bird even in Scotland. Trans.
