106 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The Jay (Garrulus glandarius) is particularly partial to mast,
in particular acorns, beech-nuts, and chestnuts, and, notwith-
standing that these may be carefully hidden away in the soil,
possesses considerable talent for finding them out. It also digs
up young oak-seedlings in order to devour the cotyledons, and can
consequently become very troublesome and injurious both in
nursery-beds and on sowings in the open, where jays often
collect in large numbers. They have also occasionally been
observed feeding on the cotyledons of coniferous seedlings which
have just germinated. They further do damage indirectly by
robbing nests and destroying young birds of useful species, whilst
the advantage which they are said to bring by hiding acorns and
beech-nuts under moss, &c., where these find a germinating bed,
is at best somewhat problematic, for in most cases such seedlings
come up where there is no particular use for them.
The Finches, including the Chaffinch (Fringilla ccelebs), the
Linnet (F. cannabina), the Bullfinch (Pyrrliula rubricilla), the
Hawfinch (Coccothraustes vulgaris), &c., can be very destructive in
nursery-beds by devouring the seeds of conifers, which they are
particularly fond of. They not only feed on the seeds, but also
devour the cotyledons when, after being formed, they are still
capped with the shell of the seed ; sometimes, when coming in
large numbers, they destroy whole seed-beds. 1 They are also fond
of beech-nuts and the cotyledons of young beech-seedlings.
And lastly, the Crossbills (Loxiae), which are exceedingly fond
of Spruce and Pine seed, and can easily manage to extract
them after having bitten off the cones, may be productive of
considerable damage, owing to the enormous numbers in which
they often occur, and to their voracity in devouring the
seed.
Woodpeckers (Pici) have always been considered as on the
whole rather useful in destroying insects in trees ; but during the
last decade not only has their utility been very much doubted,
but their activity has even, in many directions, been held to be
altogether injurious. Besides having to bear the blame of
devouring coniferous seed, which they can pick out of the cones
very cleverly, of picking off the rind of young smooth-barked
stems, and of pecking breeding-holes in healthy boles, they are
1 The Tits (Paridce) can also do a good deal of similar damage when flocking to
nurseries in large numbers Trans.
