DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 107
charged with the fault of forming the very curious rings or
girdles not infrequently seen round tree-stems, and especially
noticeable on old Scots Pine, whilst at the same time their crusade
against insects extends for the most part only to the seeking of
the larger kinds of larvae (Cerambyx, &c.) in trees that are already
unsound. The pros and cons cannot be weighed here ; but as
the German Birds' Protection Act of 1888 has taken the wood-
peckers under its wing, and as no forester shoots them, these facts
rather testify to their utility on the whole.
56. Preventive and Protective Measures.
Where Capercailzie still occur, the seed-beds of coniferous species
can easily be protected by laying a light wooden frame-work over
the beds exposed to danger, or by putting down rough branching
top-ends and branches on the ground, so as to interfere with the
peregrinations and movings to and fro of the birds. Wire frame-
work, and the stretching of wires along and across the beds, have
also been tried with good results, but, of course, they come some-
what expensive.
Against Pigeons and Doves, which are more apt to attack the
sowings in the open than the nursery-beds, measures can be taken
by delaying the sowing of the seed till after the chief period of
migration is over, by giving the seed a sufficient covering of soil,
or, if necessary, by maintaining a watch over the sowings for a
short time, and occasionally frightening away the birds ; but on
the whole, the best means that can be adopted is the use of
red-lead, to be recommended below.
Jays can only be kept off the sowings by watching, and by
shooting them now and again ; whilst in nurseries, laying rugged
branches and thorny scrub over the seed-beds, or else some sort of
a frame- work, is useful, more especially if combined with shooting
them down occasionally.
Against Finches the seed-beds can best be protected by frame-
work, and absolute security may be obtained against them if it be
made of wire netting. Excellent results can, however, at the
same time be obtained by dipping the seed into red-lead, which
gives the seed a red coating poisonous and distasteful to the
birds, but innocuous so far as the germinating capacity is con-
cerned. This method is, at the same time, extremely cheap, for
