108 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
with 1 Ib. of red-lead, costing about 6d., at least six pounds of seed
can be prepared. Tying threads or twine across the beds, with
white feathers knotted into them, is also serviceable, whereas
scarecrows of different sorts are only of little temporary use. \
Watching of the seed-beds, which can only be carried out
profitably in large nurseries, may be dispensed with by adopting
one or other of the above methods recommended.
Against Crossbills there is no simple effective measure available,
but fortunately such would only occasionally be required.
C. INSECTS (Insecta).
57. General Remarks concerning Insects.
Under Forest Insects, or injurious Forest Insects, are not comprised
all insects that may be found living on woodland trees, but only
such as, occurring more or less frequently in large numbers, damage
and endanger the growth of timber crops.
The disadvantages that may accrue to woodlands through insects
are as manifold as their consequences are frequently injurious^
By their attacks, both young crops and trees are disturbed in
growth, and even killed ; loss of increment, the formation of blanks,
and sometimes the total destruction of extensive crops are the
results, whilst young seedling growth and plantations may be more
or less damaged, thereby occasioning and necessitating labour
and outlay in the re-filling of blanks, and in other works of
improvement. Insects that are technically injurious eat into the
stem and decrease the value of the timber by rendering it useless
for technical purposes ; and at the same time, the glutting of the
market with timber of any one species, after extensive destruction
of woods by insect enemies, not only reduces the prices obtainable,
but frequently also precludes the possibility of finding a market
for the smaller assortments, consisting of poles, top-ends, and the
like. Preventive and annihilative measures may make very la rue
direct demands on the purse of the woodland proprietor; and as
it is often necessary to let the falls lie fallow for years, in order to
get rid of the swarms of beetles that have taken possession of the
soil, the loss of several years' growth of timber on such vacant
land, and the possible deterioration of the soil, are also indirect con-
sequences attributable to these insects. The struggle in suppres-
sing these little enemies is, at the same time, very troublesome
