DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 109
and difficult ; for under favourable circumstances, their rate of
numerical increase is quite extraordinary, and when once they
have gained the upper hand, their annihilation is, in the
majority of cases, almost hopeless without the -assistance of
nature.
In view of the great danger to which forests, and in particular
coniferous forests, are exposed, it is the duty of every Sylviculturist
to make himself acquainted with the appearance and life-history
of the more important forest insects, and to acquire a knowledge
of the best means of obviating and combating their attacks :
Forest Entomology, indeed, forms one of the most important
branches of the Protection of Woodlands.
As a basis for the study of Forest Entomology in particular,
some general acquaintance with the outlines of Zoology is
requisite, so that at all Forest Academies, and all Universities
: where Forestry is taught in Germany, a course of lectures on
Zoology precedes the special lectures on Entomology. But in order
to make the following details intelligible to those who have not
I had the opportunity of benefiting by such a course of study, a
| few brief remarks may be permitted concerning the character-
istics and life-history of insects in general, before proceeding to
consider the more important species individually in greater detail.
In order to avoid repetitions, mention may, by way of preface, be
briefly made of the circumstances favouring, and also those
militating against, the numerical increase of forest insects, and of
their enemies, likewise of the methods of prevention and
annihilation generally employed, together with the measures to
be adopted after any unusually large swarms have finished
feeding. The general classification of insects will also be referred
to in a few words, previous to considering them individually.
58. On the Life-history of Forest Insects in general.
Most insects pass through four metamorphoses or different stages
of development, each of which distinctly varies from that preceding
it. These four different stages of the complete metamorphosis are :
1, Ovum, or egg; 2, Larva, the grub or caterpillar; 3, Pupa,
or chrysalis ; and 4, Imago, or perfect insect. But in the com-
paratively infrequent cases of imperfect metamorphosis, a distinct
pupal stage is wanting, the transformation from larva to imago
