112 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
greater degree liable to be damaged by them than broad-leaved
species ; and woodlands formed of large, contiguous, pure crops of
one or the other species, but particularly of Spruce or Scots Pine,
are especially exposed to the frequent and serious attacks of insect
enemies.
So far as the species of trees are concerned, insects are either
monophagous, when the damage done is practically confined to one
kind of tree, as is the case with many insects feeding on conifers,
or else they are polyphagous when feeding more or less indis-
criminately on a variety of trees, as with a large number of insects
infecting broad-leaved species. But every kind of insect usually
attacks certain definite portions of trees, whilst every part of a
tree has its particular enemies, as we shall see in classifying the
injurious insects. And in a similar manner, it will also be found
that one insect principally attacks older crops, another poles
chiefly, and a third for the most part young crops formed either
by natural regeneration, or by sowing or planting (vide par. 63).
So far as the damage done is concerned, it may be said that in
general, coniferous woods suffer far more than those of broad-leaved
species, not only because the most numerous and the most
destructive kinds of insects are to be found there, but also owing
to the latter trees having a much greater recuperative power.
The other factors of influence, however, include :
The age of the crop ; as, for obvious reasons, young seedlings
and transplants suffer more than stems of older growth.
The Part of the Plant attacked ; for destruction of the cambium,
or of the roots, is most injurious, and usually leads to the death
of the plant when the injury is at all extensive. Where the
damage is confined to the foliage, it may pass away merely with
the loss of a certain amount of increment, although in the case of
conifers 1 even this may lead to death.
The Season at which the damage is done ; for if the attacks on
leaves and needles take place late in summer or in autumn, after
the buds have been formed for the following year, the duinn^e
always causes less loss of increment than if it take place in
spring.
The Nature of the damage ; as for instance if, particularly in the
case of the Pine, the needles are totally devoured along with the
sheath encircling them, or if there be any possibility of tl
1 Especially in the case of Spruce. Trans.
