114 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
favourable breeding-place for bark-beetles (Bostrichus linealus,
&c.), whilst in the stumps of trees that have had to be felled in
consequence of the injuries sustained by the destruction of the
needles, the weevils or rostral-beetles (Curculionidse) also deposit
their ova for the rearing of their brood.
But fortunately there are also influences unfavourable to the
numerical increase of insect enemies, as well as favourable con-
ditions. Among the causes hindering their too prolific repro-
duction when once the attacks of any insect have attained
calamitous proportions, and even in some cases bringing them to a
natural close, may be mentioned the following :
Ungenial weather, violent downpours of rain, and damp, cold, raw
days, especially during the time of swarming, or at the time cater*
pillars are changing their skin, when many succumb to the cold*
But on the other hand, species that hibernate as caterpillars or
chrysalides are very little sensitive to wintry cold ; they get frozen
and then thaw again without suffering any apparent injury.
Diseases and epidemics, which often kill off the caterpillars in a
short time, and fungoid attacks, to which caterpillars and pupae
hibernating under moss are especially liable, often reduce large
numbers quickly.
Natural enemies of the insects, finally, often appear in unusual
numbers, and assist in the war that is being waged against these.
The chief of these enemies are :
1. Among Mammalia.
Bats (species of Vesperugo), which are especially inimical
cockchafers and moths.
Moles (Talpa europ&a) destroy grubs and mole-crickets (<
lotalpa vulgaris) ; shrew (Sorex vidgaris), hedgehog (Urinaceus
europteus), squirrels (species of Sciurus), weasel (Putorius mdgaris),
pole-cat (P. f&tidus), stoat (P. ermineus), badger (Meles taxus^
and fox ( Vulpes vulgaris), devour a large number of beetles and
chrysalides, as has often been proved from investigations made of
the contents of their stomachs, and from examination of their
excreta.
Wild-boar and tame pigs are very fond of grubs, hairless cater-
pillars, and chrysalides, and love to hunt for them in the
or under the moss.
