DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 115
2. Among Birds.
The birds that are most useful in devouring numerous insects
at various stages of development include the cuckoo (Cuculus
canoris), which feeds eagerly on hairy caterpillars like those of the
Pine moth (G-astropacJia pini), that are avoided by most other
birds, the starling (Sturnus vulgaris), Tits or Titmice (Paridte),
tree-creepers (Certhia familiaris), swallows (Hirundines), and
most singing-birds, then thrushes (Turdidte), ravens (Corvus
frugilegus), the stannel hawk (Tinnunculus alaudarius), and
wasp-buzzards (Pernis apivorus) ; wood-peckers (Picus, vide par.
55). Sparrows and finches (Fringillidce), crows (Corvus), rooks
(Monedula turrium), and larks (Alaudidw), are only of minor
utility in this direction.
All the above-named animals and birds should be protected
and preserved wherever the good they effect is likely to exceed
the damage done (by wild-pigs, fox, marten, and crows). The
increase of the useful birds should be assisted by Bird Protection
Acts, and more directly by the hanging up of nesting-boxes
throughout the woods. 1
3. Among Insects.
The useful forest insects, or the enemies of forest insects to be
found in the class of insects themselves, are perhaps of greater
importance than those found among mammals and birds. They
are either predatory species devouring as larvae or imagines the
ova, larvae, pupae, or imagines of other insects, or else they are
parasitic species compassing the death of injurious insects by
depositing their own eggs in the ova or larvae, less frequently in
the chrysalides or the imagines, of the others, on which the
maggots proceed to feed when they come out of the egg.
Such species always occur in woodlands to a far greater extent
than the casual observer might be inclined to believe ; and as
injurious insects increase in number, so do these predatory and
1 Since the recent calamities in Bavaria caused by the " Nun " (Liparis monacha)
from 1889-1892, thousands upon thousands of wooden nesting- boxes have been erected
throughout the woods, particularly with a view to increase the number of starlings by
protecting their nests and young against cuckoos, squirrels, and wild cats, &c. Trans.
