DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 117
pupal stage before succumbing from the effects of the attacks.
Whether or not any caterpillar has become infected may, in
the case of hairless and brightly-coloured caterpillars, be told by
the appearance of dark punctures where the eggs have been
deposited, but in other cases only by making sections to see
if any larvse have developed themselves.
The importance of the role played by ichneumon-flies during
insect calamities has occasionally been over-estimated, occasionally
under-estimated. It is perhaps correct to say that they of them-
selves will never be able to suppress totally any serious devasta-
tion of woodlands caused by the voracity of swarms of caterpillars,
as the extent to which their reproduction can take place is
dependent on the presence of a still larger number of caterpillars ;
but, at the same time, it is certain that they contribute very
materially to reduce and shorten the calamity. If sections made
prove that a large number of caterpillars have been infected
with ichneumon parasites, it may be taken for granted that the
calamity is approaching its end, 1 and any direct destruction of the
caterpillars need no longer take place, as that would involve the
killing of a much greater number of useful allies among the
Ichneumonidse.
60. Preventive Measures in general.
In view of the extreme difficulty, and sometimes almost the
impossibility, of annihilating and exterminating injurious insects
when once they have obtained a footing in large numbers, it should
be the special care of the forester and the sylviculturist in the first
instance to prevent their numerical increase taking place on any
very considerable scale: PRINCIPIIS OBSTA must be a motto
never lost sight of.
To begin with, he requires above all some knowledge of the
appearance, habits, and life-history of injurious insects ; and at the
same time, he must from time to time make a careful examination
of the woods, paying particular attention to all windfall areas, to
recently felled coniferous timber lying stacked for sale or removal,
and to all sickly plantations and backward crops, which may de-
1 Experience of past calamities has shown that under such circumstances fungoid
diseases also break out largely among the caterpillars, such as that occasioned by
species of Botrytis (which also causes Muscardine in silkworms), Isaria, Cordiceps,
Micrococcus, Bacterium, Sacharomyces, and Torula. Trans.
