118 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
velop into vast breeding-places for them. And in order to dis-
cover them in time, so as possibily to crush the evil in the bud, dili-
gent revision of Pine and Spruce woods in particular is indispensable.
Many different kinds of observations lead to their discovery ;
bore-holes or bore-dust yield indications on lying timber, whilst
the exudation of white drops of resin, or bore-dust hanging on
scales of the bark or on cobwebs, give evidence of their presence
in standing trees ; excreta and needles, that have been bitten
through, are easily distinguishable along paths, or along the drives or
open lanes between the compartments containing the different
annual crops, especially in the ruts formed by carts; the
gradual thinning of the foliage exhibits the destructive progress
made by caterpillars ; and even the presence of more insectivorous
birds than usual (e.g., cuckoos, starlings, &c.), conveys a plain hint
to the thoughtful observer. Excessive breaking up of the surface-
soil with their snouts, either by wild-pig or by domestic swine,
points to the presence of an unusual number of chrysalides.
During the time of swarming, and especially towards evening,
the frequency of moths may be readily noted ; whilst during winter
the caterpillars, like those of the Pine moth (Gastropacha pini),
which hibernate there, may be found by occasionally lifting tip
the soil-covering of moss.
Although, as far as moths are concerned, we must for the most
part necessarily confine ourselves to the early discovery of their
resence as one of the chief means of obviating damage on an
extensive scale, yet, in respect to many kinds of beetles, more
effective preventive measures are at our disposal. Thus the re-
moval of all sickly stems and windfall timber from the crops,
the early removal of coniferous timber, or peeling of the bark at
once if it is to be left lying for some time, and grubbing out the
stumps of trees utilised, prevent the most dangerous species
(Bostrichini, Hylesinini, Curculionidte) from finding the breed-
ing-places most favourable to their increase. Decoy-stems
may at the same time be laid down here and there in order to
attract beetles and weevils occurring in small numbers ; and by
destroying the brood when these stems are examined later on, their
increase in much larger numbers can thus be prevented. The use
of these decoy-stems, to be considered more at length in par. 61, is
the best means we have of combating the increase of bark-
beetles (Bostrichini) and cambial-beetles (Hylesinini).
