120 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
will recommend exterminative remedies being applied in one or
other of these special directions, yet, at the same time, the more
important and successful of these measures may be considered and
criticised generally, in order to a have better overlook, and a more
comprehensive idea of them, as well as to avoid the necessity for
repetition and reiteration. As, however, such measures are in the
case of beetles essentially different from those adopted in the case
of moths, it appears advisable to consider them apart in relation
to these two different orders of insects.
(a.) Beetles (Coleopteraz).
The chief means of annihilating many of the injurious bark-
beetles (Scolytidce) and weevils or rostral-beetles (Curculionidte),
breeding in conifers, consist first of all in the immediate felling
and barking of all stems attacked, and in at once burning the bark,
in the cambial layer of which are contained the ova, larvae, pup,
and often the recently developed imagines themselves. All stems
that are infested should be found out by frequent revisions of the
crops, either by the foresters or by woodmen specially trained
to the work. Such inspections, however, are not of themselves
sufficient, but should be supplemented by laying down decoy-
stems here and there (vide par. 60), in as large a number as is
convenient, in order to induce the insects to select these for ovi-
deposition, and then destroying the brood, a measure that is
not only remedial, but also preventive.
The felling and preparation of such decoy-stems should be seen
to early in the season, before the swarming of the insect takes
place in threatened localities, for experience has shown that
many genera of the above-named classes are most likely to select
as their breeding-places coniferous stems with suspended flow of
sap ; they therefore seek first of all for recently felled timber, be-
fore proceeding to attack healthy trees, whose strong exudation i
of resin threatens the well-being of their brood. In localities
where, or under circumstances in which, experience has previously
shown that the appearance of such insects is to be feared, a
suitable number of stems should be felled and formed into decoy i
breeding-places ; at the proper time later on in the summer, the
same operation should afterwards be repeated, in order to ol>\ into
the danger that may arise from a second generation within the
