122 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
else by entrapping them, as in the case of the large rostral beetle
(Hylobius abietis), in specially constructed ditches, and then killing
them by treading on them, or pouring boiling-water over them.
(b.) Moths 1 (Lepidoptera).
Annihilative and exterminative measures against moths must
chiefly be adopted during the prolonged larval stage as caterpillars,
although in not a few cases something may at the same time be
done towards their destruction during the pupal stage of rest, and
to a slighter extent even whilst they are ova or imagines.
The caterpillars may sometimes be collected merely with the
hand, 2 as in the case of those hibernating on the ground under
moss, those brought to the ground by shaking the poles or knock-
ing on the branches with the heavy flat head of an axe, or those
caught in ditches; they are then thrown into wooden troughs,
whose sides are smeared with fat so as to present the caterpillars
crawling out again. Or again they may be crushed to death when
clustered together in groups, like young schools of the newly
developed caterpillars of the Spruce moth (Liparis monacha), or
by burning or crushing the so-called nests of caterpillars of the
Lackey moth (Gastropacha neustria), and the cocoon-like clusters
of the caterpillars of the Processionary moth (Cnethocampa proces-
sioned).
By shaking the crowns through tapping on the stems with
wooden mallets, or with the flat head of an axe, a method of
course only applicable in pole-forests, the caterpillars of the Pine
Owlet moth (Trachea piniperda), and the Pine Span-worm (Fidonia
piniaria), may be brought to the ground for collection : two or
three smart taps should be given with the axe or mallet, and the
operation is all the more successful if carried out early in the
morning or during cool weather, as the caterpillars do not then
take such good hold on the foliage as during warm sunny days.
In order to avoid injury to the stem, the mallet or axe-head should
be padded, or care should be taken to select the snags of old
1 Practically, true day-butterflies (Papilionidw) are almost innocuous to woodlands,
injurious qualities being bestowed on the families generally known as moths, and
comprising Sphynges, Spinners, Spanners or Loopers, Leaf-rollers, &c. Trans.
3 Where hairy caterpillars are to be thus gathered, the collectors must be provided
with old gloves or other protection for the hands, as the hairs of many species are
poisonous and very irritant. Trans.
