124 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
of the Spruce moth, of some Tortricidce, and of the almost wing-
less female imago of the Winter moth (Cheimatobia brumata).
Good viscous tar or patent glue should remain sticky and
active for at least 6 to 8 weeks, neither running in consequence of
getting washed by rain or from the melting influence of a hot
sun, nor oxidising or getting covered with a superficial skin.
Although its composition is supposed to be a secret, it must be a
rather open one, as it is extensively manufactured by over a
dozen firms (Messrs Polborn in Berlin, Miitzell in Stettin, &c.).
A hundredweight costs about 7s. 6d., and on the average this
quantity is about enough to do 2-^ acres, although this depends
on the average girths of the stems, as young crops require a larger
quantity per acre than older woods. Before the operation of
ringing the stems with tar is carried out, the bark is cleaned, or
" reddened " as it is called in the case of the Scots pine, with
scrapers, so that a girdle at breast-height of about four inches in
breadth is scraped clear of all rough bark, whilst, at the same
time, care is exercised not to damage the tree by scraping too
deep. By this scraping, the patent tar bites on to the bark much
more easily, and at the same time a much less quantity is required
per stem. This cleaning of the stems should take place during
the course of the winter and the spring in all crops where inspec-
tion and revision have shown that many caterpillars are hibernating
on the ground (Pine moth), or that deposits of eggs have beeu
numerous (Spruce moth), and only later on, about the end of
March and the beginning of April, should the formation of the
rings of viscous tar be carried out, when the soil temperature
ascends to about 40 to 45 Fahr., and the caterpillars begin to be
impelled to ascend the trees. The gluey tar may be applied with
hard brushes, but better results are obtained through the use of
small wooden spuds about 1 to 1-^ inches broad, smoothing off being
performed with a similar spud hollowed to a depth of about th of
an inch. With good patent tar one operation should remain
active and effective, even although the period during which the
caterpillars ascend the stems may, from one reason or another,
be unduly prolonged. 1 Should it be convenient to undertake a
1 In August 1892, during a summer of much more than the average heat and
dryness, I found the rings of patent tar, that had been placed round Spruce in the
Bavarian forests during April as a protection against the " Nun " or Spruce moth,
still perfectly sticky and active, although this was quite a month after the necessary
time. Trans.
