126 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
the Spruce moth, the Eed-tailed Vapourer moth or Beech-spinner
(Dasychira pudibunda), and the Gipsy moth (Liparis dispar). 1
The collecting of the restless moths themselves is the most
troublesome, and, at the same time, the least satisfactory method,
although some species sit so low down on the leeward or pro-
tected side of the stem on cold, cloudy, damp days, that they can
be collected without difficulty. Experiments have both formerly
and recently (in the case of the Spruce moth or " Nun " in
Bavaria in 1891) been tried with bonfires and electric lights to
attract moths and night-swarming butterflies towards exhausters,
&c., where they could easily be killed en masse; but they hava
always proved almost useless, except only so far as to determine
the actual presence of moths in the woods.
In regard to attacks from night butterflies and moths in general,
it may be remarked that they seldom exceed more than three
years in duration, during the first of which the butterflies are seen
swarming singly, whilst, here and there, there is an unmistakable
diminution of the foliage forming the crowns of the trees. During
the second year the destruction assumes greater proportions, and
in many parts develops into total denudation of the needles and
leaves, whilst the healthiest and most vigorous crops also begin to*
be attacked by the voracious caterpillars ; simultaneously, how-
ever, ichneumon-flies and other useful insects also make their
appearance in greater numbers than usual. Throughout the third
year these latter occur still more numerously ; the caterpillars and
moths get smaller and evidently degenerate ; diseases and fungoid
attacks supervene ; and during the fourth year there is often hardly
a caterpillar to be found. 2
1 It may be remarked here that Professor Altnm recommends the use of patent
for many different purposes, as, for example, protecting valuable saplings and
lings against the gnawing of hares, rabbits, dormice, and squirrels ; for preventi
the ascent of Curculionidse, and the exit of many saw-flies, weevils and bark-beetles.
For very small enemies, like tree-lice (Coccidae and Aphidae), and tree-bugs
(Pentatomidee), he also strongly recommends the use of Nessler's solution, consisting
of 5 parts black soap, 10 parts amyl alcohol, 20 parts spirits of wine, and 65 parts of
rainwater.
* During the recent calamities occasioned in Bavaria by the Spruce-moth or
"Nun" (Liparis monacha) from 1889-1891, the flight of starlings collected in one
locality alone was credibly estimated at 10,000, all busy feeding on the caterpillars,
chrysalides, and moths, not to mention enormous flights of titmice and finches simi-
larly engaged. (PufePauly, "Die Nonne" 1891, p. 33.) The attraction of star-
lings to such centres became so great that market-gardeners felt their absence seri-
ously in distant parts of the countrv. Trains.
x
ating
