DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 127
From the above it will be seen how important it is to make a
timely discovery of the presence of lepidopterous enemies, so as
to take immediate measures against their spread. We may thus
avoid the necessity for resorting to exterminative measures on a
large and costly scale during the third year, and, at the same
time, obviate the loss attendant on any extensive calamities.
Of course, in estimating the measures that appear advisable in
regard to checking the attacks of any kind of injurious insect,
due consideration must be given as to the actual necessity for
adopting special measures, and as to whether the object in view is
likely to justify the necessary outlay ; for only in the latter case
can costly methods of annihilation be justified. The number of
injurious insects present within the woods, a point by no means
always easy to determine, the health and the vigour of the crops
in resisting attacks from parasitic and fungoid growth, the value
and general condition of the woods attacked or threatened, and,
finally, the prospect of a more or less satisfactory and successful
conduct of the preventive and remedial measures that seem
advisable after due consideration of the probable extent of the
danger, of the necessary outlay, and of the amount of labour
standing at one's disposal, must in each special case determine
which annihilative measure seems most desirable, and to what
extent the war must be waged against the insect enemies.
62. Treatment of damaged Timber Crops, and of Timber felled in
consequence of Injuries.
Only crops of Pine and Spruce are apt to be damaged to such
an extent as to necessitate felling or clearance on an extensive
scale. Silver Fir and Larch, as a rule, suffer to a much less degree,
and mostly from less injurious insects, whilst broad-leaved species
of trees, owing to their greater recuperative power, can withstand
even total denudation of their foliage.
Whenever any extensive damage is being committed by insects,
it is of great importance to note whether the trees are being fatally
injured or not. In the former case, any delay in utilising and
preparing them for sale injuriously affects the quality of the timber,
whilst in the latter, by felling too precipitately, there is the danger
of not only glutting the mart with one particular class of timber,
