DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 129
As regards the clearance of timber crops that are already nearly
mature, there will, of course, be less hesitation or delay than in
the case of younger crops ; hence all the older falls of timber that
have been essentially injured in annual increment may be cleared.
But when the devastation has been committed over extensive
areas, so that the utilisation of the trees is likely to affect the
market price of the timber very prejudicially, endeavours will
naturally be made to perform the operation of clearance as gradu-
ally as possible ; in this matter, however, prudence must dictate in
regard to the previously-mentioned dangers of sickly crops from
other enemies among the Scolytidsz and Curcidionidm.
But whatever timber it is considered necessary to fell should
be prepared for sale as speedily as possible. Both long timber and
fuel should be barked in order to let it dry quickly, and all fuel
should be well split ; and finally, all the wood, of whatever class
or assortment, should be stored or stacked in airy places, and well
raised from the ground on suitable rests.
63. Classification of the injurious Forest Insects.
The injurious forest insects may be grouped together in many
different ways, either according to the parts of the tree they
damage, or according to the manner in which they injure the vital
power and the value of the tree, or according to the age of the
woodland crops chiefly attacked by them, or according to the
degree and extent to which they do injury. Again, they may, of
course, also be classified according to the species of tree on which
they chiefly occur, or simply in accordance with their natural
entomological classes.
According to the portions of the tree attacked by them, they
are grouped into
1. Wood-boring or Timber-destroying insects, which either bore
into and riddle the wood with holes (e.g., some Scolytidte,
Cerambycidte, Siricidse), or destroy the cambial layer of the
bark and the sap wood (e.g., Bostrichini and several Curcu-
lionidai), or eat out the pith from the tender shoots (e.g.,
some Hylesinini and Tortricidte).
2. Leaf-destroyers, including the caterpillars of most Lepidoptera
and of Tenthredinidte, cockchafers (Melolontha), leaf-beetles
(Chrysomelidte), and Spanish fly (Lytta vesicatoria).
