DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 131
Spruce Moth (Liparis monacha), which first attack older woods,
and then in their voracity proceed to denude younger woods of
their foliage.
With reference to the extent of the injury each species does
on the average, attempts have been made to divide them into
very injurious, noticeably injurious, and slightly injurious, accord-
ing as they occur more or less frequently, and usually in more or
less numerical strength. Such a classification has, however, little
to recommend it ; it is apt to be extremely elastic, and under any
circumstances indefinite.
But at the same time there are numerous insects, which, on
account of the extensive and often calamitous injuries they have
from time to time done in woodlands, must undoubtedly be
considered as very injurious species. These include in particular the
large 8-toothed or Spruce bark-beetle (Bostrichus typo-
graphies), 1 the large brown rostral-beetle or Pine weevil (Hylobius
abietis), the cockchafer (Melolontha mdgaris), the large Pine Moth
(Gastropacha pini), and the Black Arches, " Nun/' or Spruce Moth
(Liparis monacha). And along with these there are also others
which have in certain localities committed such devastations in
woodlands, as might justify their being included among the very
injurious species ; these include the Pine Owlet-moth or Pine
Beauty (Trachea piniperda), the Pine Span-worm or Bordered
White Moth (Fidonia piniaria), me Pine Sawfly (Lophyrus pini),
the small, brown, white-spotted rostral-beetle (Pissodes notatus),
and others, which, under ordinary circumstances, are reckoned as
noticeably injurious species. Between this latter class and the
slightly injurious species, the borderland is still more indefinite.
It has, therefore, seemed best on the whole to adopt a different
classification below, to consider the chief insect enemies in
i two main groups namely, Insects on coniferous trees and Insects
| on broad-leaved species of trees, and to treat of them within these
groups under the special headings of beetles, Moths, and other
; kinds of Insects.
1 In the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland's Transactions for 1887,
j Fourth Series, vol. xix. p. 186, footnote, it is remarked by one of the Prize Commit-
tee on Forest Reports that B. typographus is "not in any of the entomological lists
for Scotland," a fortunate thing for the Pine and Fir forests of the North. Trans,
