132 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
(a.) INSECTS ON CONIFEROUS TREES.
I. BEETLES OR CHAFERS (Coleoptera).
A. BARK-BEETLES (Scolytidaz).
64. Bark-beetles (Scolytidse) in General.
The bark-beetles include some of the most destructive insect
enemies of our coniferous woodlands, and although a few species
are also to be found on broad-leaved species of trees, yet as they
mostly live in the sap wood, they are less injurious as well as
less numerous. Their number is very large, but in the following
only the most important species can be treated of. As the habits
and the life-history of the various genera and species have much that
is common to all of them, a short general description thereof may
be given before proceeding to consider the species in detail.
The bark-beetles are small, often very small, insects, almost
cylindrical in shape, and of quiet, indefinite colour, which spend
all their life, with the exception of the short time of swarming and
reproduction, in the inside of woody fibrous plants, within which
they develop from the ovum. For the most part they hibernate
as perfect insects ; but some of them are very early afoot in
spring, and swarm during the first warm days of March, or even
in February, whilst others only make their appearance again in
April or May, so that they may be divided in this respect int
early swarmers and late swarmers.
For the purpose of ovi-deposition they select, in the fi]
instance, the class of timber most suitable, preferring neithe
wood that is dead or that has already grown too dry, nor sounc
healthy trees, whose strong flow of resin would destroy the beetle
and larvae of most of the species ; stems in any way damaged, am
sickly, windfall trees, or those injured and broken by wind or
accumulations of snow and ice, newly felled timber, the stum]
left in the ground from recent clearances, and crops of backw*
growth constitute the most favourable breeding-places. The
beetles bore as quickly as possible into the sapwood of the stei
selected, choosing for convenience the fissures on thick-barke
Pine trees. In the case of species which only enter in
within the stem, there is generally a comparatively large hollo
cavity under the bark, the copulating chamber or cat
