DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 133
copulatrix. Here the act of fructification of the female takes
place, and hence proceed the main galleries of equal breadth,
which are characteristic of the Scolytidte, (the breadth being in
each instance dependent on the size of the beetle), and along
which the female deposits her eggs alternately right and left in
small holes bitten out for the purpose. It less frequently hap-
pens that the ova are deposited in clusters.
The Main galleries occur partly in the cambial layer between
the wood and the bark, being now more in the former, or
again more in the latter (bark-galleries), and partly in the sap-
wood itself (wood-galleries) ; they constitute the main difference
between the beetles which breed in the bark and those which
breed in the wood, and are distinguishable, according to the
direction they take, into :
1. Vertical or longitudinal galleries, running in the axial direction
of the stem.
2. Horizontal or latitudinal galleries, when spreading peri-
pherally round the stem.
3. Radiating or star-shaped galleries, when radiating in con-
siderable numbers from the camera copulatrix forming
the central point.
The two first-named species of galleries have either one or two
branches, according as they go only to one or to both sides from
the entrance-hole bored into the stem.
From the ova, whose number is often very considerable, (some-
times up to 100), and all of which are deposited within about 3 to 4
weeks, the larvae, (developed in about 14 days and issuing feetless,
curled in at the ends towards the belly, dirty-white in colour
with a brown head), begin to eat larval galleries almost at right
angles from the main gallery. These are small and narrow at first
but gradually enlarge in breadth and depth as the larvae
develop in size ; at the termination of each a pupal chamber
is scooped out for the inhabitation of the chrysalis. Whilst
growing broader, the larval galleries always spread out further
from one another, and deviate more and more from their original
direction perpendicular to the main gallery, so that the longest
of them sometimes at last run almost parallel to the latter.
As a rule, every larva has its own gallery, and in boring, the
larvae instinctively know very well how to keep clear of the
galleries formed by their neighbours on each side.
