134 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
In the few species whose ova are deposited in clusters, the
larvse form family galleries or galleries in common, whilst (accord-
ing to Eichhoff, an authority on the Scotytidx) in the case of the
timber-borers true larval galleries are nob formed, as the larvae
live in the main galleries, and only hollow out short cone-like
galleries, at right angles to the main gallery, for their pupal
chambers, the whole being specifically known as ladder galleries.
The main galleries, and the larval galleries connected with them,
usually form very characteristic designs that in most cases very
materially simplify the recognition of the species of insect to
which the damage is due ; whereas the determination of the species
by a mere examination of the larvae only would not be possible.
The period elapsing between the deposition of the ova and the
development of the mature imago, varies not only according to
the species, but also according to the general kind of weather,
and in particular according to the temperature of the breeding-
place. Thus the period of generation is of longer duration in the
hills and mountains than on the warmer plains ; but on the average
it lasts only from 8 to 10 weeks. The chrysalides lying in the
pupal chamber already exhibit all the different sections of the
perfect beetle, from which they are mainly distinguished by their
lighter colour and their softness of structure. After a pupal rest
of about 8 days they undergo the metamorphosis into the fully
developed beetle, but usually, especially when the weather is raw
and cold, spend a few days feeding on the succulent cambial layer
surrounding the pupal chamber, which then rather interferes with
the characteristic appearance of the larval galleries. When, how-
ever, the weather is fine, the beetle bores a small circular exit-hole in
the bark, and generally at once begins to swarm and to reproduce
itself in a new brood. This attains its complete development in
the same season, but as a rule does not swarm until the following
year ; the beetles hibernate in the meantime under the bark, in
fissures and cracks, in roots, stumps of trees, &c. Most bark-beetles
have such a double generation, although, in regard to a few species,
this has not yet been proved beyond doubt ; but local circum-
stances have always more or less of influence in this respect, for
one and the same species may have a double generation in warm
localities, whilst only having a single or annual generation in less
favourable situations.
The presence of bark-beetles in stems lying on the ground
