136 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The best annihilative measures consist in the laying down of
decoy-stems here and there (vide par. 61), and in duly peeling
and burning the bark from these after all the ova of one swarm-
ing-time have been deposited, but before any of the first beetles
have had time to make their exit. Burning of the bark is best,
though, where this is inconvenient, it is sufficient to expose it inside
upwards to the sun, if the brood is still in the larval stage. But
if the bark be thrown together in large heaps, as must occur when
the attacks of the insects are on any very large scale, burning is
absolutely necessary in order to destroy them.
It is of particular importance that, in order to carry on
exterminative operations with fully successful results, another
supply of decoy-stems should be prepared against the second
time of swarming of the insects in summer, to induce them
to deposit the ova there. As a general rule, it may be said
that fresh decoy-stems should be felled every 4 to 5 weeks
throughout the summer and well into autumn, wherever
experience has shown that bark-beetles are likely to occur
in any large number.
What has been said above concerning injuries inflicted, pro-
tective or preventive measures, and annihilative or exterminative
remedies, refers especially to the bark-boring beetles. The much
less numerous genera of wood-boring beetles, occurring in conifers
as well as broad-leaved trees (e.g., Oak), belong to the technically
injurious class of insects ; the trees attacked by these, especially
the broad-leaved species, often continue to live and flourish for
decades afterwards, although early utilisation of such stems is
certainly advisable in view of the constantly increasing deprecia-
tion in the value of the trees attacked. For such cases the fell-
ing of decoy-stems is of no avail, and other measures require to
be adopted in order to counteract the damage threatened, and
to reduce it to a minimum (vide par. 71).
The bark-beetles are subdivided into three main groups, com-
prising about thirty species of sylvicultural importance :
1. True Bark-beetles (Bostrichini) having the elytra often con-
tracted and toothed at the lower end. They live chiefly on
conifers, but also on broad-leaved species, partly under
the bark and partly in the wood, but never breed in
the roots, like many Hylesinini.
2. Cambial-beetles (Hylesinini) having the elytra or outer
