DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 137
wings extending beyond the termination of the abdo-
men. They chiefly occur in conifers and then always
bore in the bark or but slightly into the sapwood, but
never live in the wood or timber.
3. Sapwood-bectles (Scolytini), with obliquely shortened abdomen.
They chiefly occur on broad-leaved species, and are of but
slight sylvicultural importance.
(a.) TRUE BARK-BEETLES (Bostrichini).
65. The S-toothed Spruce Bark-beetle, Bostrichus (Tomicus)
typographies.
(Vide Plate I. figs. 5 and 15.)
This beetle varies from 016 to 0'24 inches in length,is cylindrical
in form, black in colour, with brownish -yellow hairs attached to
the thorax and elytra, and with reddish-yellow feelers and legs.
! The elytra or outer pair of wings have deep longitudinal notched
| stripes, and at the obliquely truncated termination there are four
equidistant tooth-like projections on each side (whence the name
I 8-toothed). Next to B. stenographies it is the largest of the
bark-beetles, but although fortunately apparently unknown in the
extensive coniferous forests of Scotland, 1 it is about the most
: widely distributed, and at the same time the most injurious, of the
true bark-beetles on the continent, having at various times
occasioned enormous destruction throughout the Spruce forests of
Germany. 2
It is comparatively late in swarming, making its exit usually
during the second half of April, or the beginning of May, or even
towards the end of May in the mountainous tracts, where it finds
its true natural home. It swarms for the most part on warm,
sunny afternoons, and soon proceeds to attack first of all recently
1 Vide footnote at page 90. Trans.
2 Hess, op. tit., vol. i. p. 284, states that in the Bbhmerwald between Austria and
Bavaria, during 1872-1874, the devastation caused by Bostrichus typographies (princi-
pally) together with B. chakographus, B. pityographus, B. autographus, Hylesinus
pattiatus and others, necessitated the clearance of 130,753,800 cubic feet of timber
from 22,500 acres, besides, at the same time, causing the felling of 25,200,000 cubic
feet of timber in the Bayerischer Wald. The beetles were present in such enormous
swarms as to obscure the sunlight. In one forest alone in the latter locality 1000
woodmen were employed in felling and barking the trees. Trans.
Thanks to our mixed forests, such calamities are impossible, even on a very much
smaller scale proportionate to the lesser area (approx. T^th) of our woodlands. Trans.
