DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 139
quently, the generation is frequently only a simple annual one, or
else three generations require two years for their development, in
which case the second generation hibernates as larvse.
It must, however, be specially mentioned that any special time
of swarming is only noticeable in spring, for during summer the
beetles only gradually make their appearance in consequence of
the ovi-deposition in the first instance being protracted throughout
several weeks.
Trees that are attacked by any considerable number of beetles
soon begin to show signs of the stagnation of the sap, and die
rapidly in consequence of the interference with the flow of the
latter occasioned by the larval galleries; but the beetles always make
their exit from the stems before they are quite dead, so that the
felling of such does not enable the forester to stay the current of
reproduction.
This bark-beetle is almost always to be found here and there
within Spruce woods; but under favourable circumstances, and when
numerous suitable breeding-places are offered to it in consequence
of extensive damage by storms or snow, it increases at a calami-
tous rate, and has several times committed enormous destruction
in Spruce forests. It is only exceptionally that it attacks other
species of trees.
As one of the cases of calamitous devastation of forests may be
mentioned the enormous damage caused by bark-beetles, and
principally B. typographus, in the Spruce forests of the Bohmischer
and the Bayerischer Wald, which immediately followed, and was
due to, the very extensive injuries occasioned by a great hurricane
in 1870 ; it necessitated the felling of many millions of cubic
feet of timber (see note to page 137).
Similar extensive devastations also occurred in the Spruce
forests of the Harz Mountains towards the end of last century.
The speedy removal of felled timber, the barking of stems
that must remain lying in the woods for some time, and diligent
inspection of all windfall areas to see that they do not develop
into breeding-places for insects, are the best preventive and pro-
tective measures ; whilst the felling and barking of stems that
have been attacked, the laying down of a sufficient number of
decoy-stems in suitable places, and the peeling and burning of the
bark from these, constitute the most effective annihilative and
exterminative remedies against this dangerous enemy.
