140 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
B. amitinus is also an 8 -toothed bark-beetle, so very closely
resembling B. typographies in outward appearance, and in its
habits and life-history, that it is very frequently mistaken for the
latter. It is, however, found on the Scots Pine and the Larch as
well as on the Spruce ; and the often-reported finding of the
Spruce bark-beetle on the Larch is probably in reality the occur-
rence of B. amitinus, which also appears to be very commoa
Similar preventive measures and exterminative remedies must be
adopted against it as have been described for B. typographies.
66. The 6-toothed Spruce Bark-beetle, Bostrichus (Tomicus)
chalcographus.
(Fwfc Plate! fig. 15.)
This is one of the smallest of the bark-beetles. It is only
about 0*06 to 0'08 inches in length, almost hairless, with a fatty
kind of gloss ; it has a dark thorax, but is otherwise reddish-brown,
and its elytra, though dotted near their base with fine rows of
punctures, are smooth towards the ends, and carry on both sides
3 dark coloured, tooth-like protections near the end (hence the
name 6 -toothed).
It is chiefly to be met with on Spruce trees, but has also been
found on all other conifers. It is an almost constant attendant
on B. typographies, but is then usually to be met with principally
in the upper portions of the stem, and on the main branches, in
places where the bark is thinnest ; it also occurs in pole-forests
that are sickly or backward in growth. The main galleries
formed by it are quite characteristic, as 4 or 5 of them radiate,
star-like, from the copulating chamber ; they are of course, as
also the larval galleries, much smaller than the corresponding
galleries formed by B. typographus (vide Plate ! fig. 15). Its
habits and life-history resemble those of the last-named species,
B. chalcographus having undoubtedly also a double generation
within the year. It swarms a little earlier than B. typographus, and
by making its attacks always in the upper portions of the stem,
it soon brings the tree into a sickly sort of condition, thereby
rendering it a favourable breeding-place for that more danger-
ous species.
The preventive measures and exterminative remedies are practi-
