142 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
68. The 2-tootked Pine Park-beetle, Hostrichw bidens (Tomicus
bidentatus).
This little beetle, from 0'08 to 0'092 inches in length, is black,
glossy, and covered with fine hairs. The elytra are frequently
dark brown, with fine rows of punctures ; towards their termina-
tion on the male there is a broad flat indentation, on the upper
edge of which a large curved tooth-like projection protrudes on
both elytra (hence bidens), that is wanting on the female.
This insect is chiefly to be found on the Scots Pine, and on the
various species of Pine generally, although it also attacks Spruce and
even Larch when it cannot find suitable breeding-places on the
former.
It principally attacks young crops about 10 to 12 years of age,
or else the crowns and branches of poles and trees where the
bark is thinnest, avoiding as far as possible the portions where the
bark is thicker. It must be included amongst the very injurious
class of insects, for it has often been the cause of the ruination of
very extensive plantations and young seedling growth, as well as
of thinning and interrupting the canopy of old Pine woods to an
injurious extent.
Swarming in April or May, it also has a double generation.
The main galleries radiate in a star-shaped manner, but are easily
distinguishable from those of B. chalcographies by their greater
irregularity, whilst both the main and the larval galleries bite into
the sapwood to a certain extent, and the pupal chamber is
embedded within it to a very considerable degree.
The first generation is usually fully developed by the end
July, when it proceeds to reproduce itself in a second generatioi
Under favourable circumstances this can also reproduce itself
a third generation that hibernates in the larval state ; but undt
normal circumstances, the beetles of the second generation
a rule hibernate before reproducing themselves.
The best means of operating against B. bidens is by keeping tl
woods clean and well-thinned, removing all sickly poles during tl
thinnings, and by laying down small wood, the branches ai
twigs of decoy-stems set for other kinds of bark-beetles, for tl
purpose of attracting the beetles thereto, and then burning it
removing it from the woods as soon as the ovi-deposition is at
end. Young seedlings or saplings that have been attacked shou]
