144 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
lie so deeply embedded in the sapwood as not to be removed
along with the bark. This therefore necessitates the peeling
of the bark before the larvae proceed to form the pupal
chambers, or involves the crushing of the pupae within them.
70. The many-toothed or Larch Bark-beetle, Bostrickus
(Tomicue) laricis.
This beetle is 0*14 to 0'16 inches long, mostly dark in colour, but
occasionally a light brown, with a sprinkling of grey hairs, and
with rusty-brown feelers and legs. The elytra are densely
punctured, terminate abruptly almost at right angles, and
with a circular indentation, the edges of which have 3 pro-
jections or teeth on each side. l
This insect is chiefly to be found on Pines, but also occurs on
Spruce, and less frequently on Larch and Silver Fir; it is found
principally in fuel stacked for sale, in poles, and in the upper
portions of trees.
It is somewhat late in swarming, coming out for the most part
in the month of May, the ovi-deposition by the second generation
of beetles taking place, however, about the end of July or the
beginning of August ; these latter ova attain their full development
in October, and the insects hibernate as beetles.
The main galleries are irregularly vertical, frequently twisting
about, and often provided with short supplementary galleries or
off-shoots ; they generally begin with a boot-shaped chamber, and
at the end of a gallery, often only about 1 to 2 inches in length, tl
female deposits her 30 to 40 ova in one or two clusters in a pi
longation of the main gallery. The larvae feed in comm(
in irregular, confused family galleries, and in different directions
so that distinct larval galleries are not traceable as in tl
case of other Bostrichini.
This bark-beetle is of frequent occurrence in many localiti<
but its first brood is usually deposited in fuel stacked for sale,
this is frequently still in the woods at the time of swarmii
Hence if this be barked at the proper time, or removed from tl
forest before the second brood has time to swarm, during July ai
August, special measures will not require to be taken against it.
Otherwise the preventive and remedial measures previously
1 Hess, op. cit., vol. i. page 290 gives 3 to 6 projections on each side. Trans.
