DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 145
indicated for the other bark-beetles, will require to be applied in
order to prevent its increase at the usual rapid rate.
71. The Three-striped or Wood-loring Bark-beetle, Bostrichus
(Xyloterus) lineatus.
This timber-destroying bark-beetle, from 0112 to 012 inches in
length, has dull yellow-brown elytra, antennae, and legs, with
three dark longitudinal stripes (at inner edge, middle, and outer
edge) on the outer pair of wings, whence the name lineatus is
derived. It has none of the tooth-like projections at the termina-
tion of the elytra which have been noted in the other bark-
beetles already described.
This beetle only attacks conifers, but may be found on
all species of them. It is chiefly attracted towards recently-
felled timber, and only exceptionally attacks standing timber
of sickly growth ; it differs essentially from the Bostrichini
already described in detail, not only in its habits and life-history,
but also in being one of the insects classifiable as being technically
injurious to timber.
It swarms very early, in March and the beginning of April,
and at once proceeds to attack the timber then usually lying here
and there throughout the woods, the female boring an entrance-
hole, at right angles to the axis of the stem, into the sapwood and
the timber for about T6 to 2'0 inches, and then proceeding to form
a horizontal main gallery, or, not seldom, two on each side, (follow-
ing the periphery in the direction of an annual ring or zone
of wood), on the upper and lower sides of which the ova are
alternately deposited in small pockets or indentations. On coming
out of the shell the larvse nourish themselves mainly from the
sap which oozes out from the walls of the main gallery, and only
bore, at right angles to the latter, quite a short larval gallery about
0'20 of an inch in length, which remains constant throughout in
diameter in place of increasing with the age of the larva, and in
which the pupal metamorphosis proceeds. The whole figure
represented by the borings is called a ladder gallery, from
the fancied resemblance of the main gallery and the short
larval galleries to a single-pole ladder and its rungs. There
are no special exit-holes, as the beetles, when full-grown, make
their way out from their place of abode by the entrance-hole.
