146 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
Its generation is also twofold during one year.
The damage which can be done to valuable timber by this
wood-boring beetle is somewhat considerable ; but as, fortunately,
the galleries do not go very deep into the wood, they are for the
most part confined to the less valuable sapwood.
Besides laying down decoy-stems as breeding- places in summer,
and then removing or charring these, the best means of prevent-
ing extensive reproduction of, and consequent damage by, this
insect consist in the carting away of valuable timber that has
been felled during winter, before the first swarming takes place in
spring ; or if too late for that, then timely removal of stems
in which ova have been deposited, and barking of the stems,
or splitting up of fuel sections are recommended, in order that the
young brood may perish owing to the dryness of the timber.
(5.) CAMBIAL BEETLES (Eylesinini).
72. The large Pine Shoot-boring Beetle or Scots Pine Cambial
Beetle, Hylesinus (Hylurgus] piniperda. 1
(Vide Plate I. figs. 4 and 14.)
This beetle is from 016 to 018 inches in length, almost cylindri-
cal, mostly glossy black, or at anyrate dark brown in colour, with
a black thorax, and bright brown antennae and legs. The elytra
have rows of very fine punctures, the spaces between which are
wrinkled with punctures and small knobs, and have a row of
little excrescences bearing tufts of thick hair, like brushes. The
second space on each front wing, however, has no excrescence at
its termination, and thus appears somewhat indented or slightly
pressed in, thereby differing characteristically from H. minor.
Flattening and tooth-like processes at the end of the outer wings,
as in the case of all the bark-beetles, are wanting, so that a
distinction can easily be made between the Hylesinini and the
Bostrichini ; but, on the other hand, the distinctions between the
cambial beetles themselves are made much more difficult owing
to the absence of such marks.
The Pine beetle swarms very early, as early as March in good
1 For a detailed account of this beetle, vide Transactions of the Highland
Agricultural Society for 1891, Fifth Series, vol. iii. pp. 31-43. Trans.
