DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 147
weather, or in April if it be less favourable, and deposits its eggs
under the bark of newly-felled stems or fuel-stacks arranged for sale,
or failing these attacks also standing trees of sickly growth, selecting
so far as possible only the portions of the tree where the bark is
thick. It also visits recently-formed Pine stumps for ovi-de-
position, and so long as such material is available it selects the
Scots Pine, or at anyrate the genus Pinus^ for the purpose,
although it may also occasionally be found on Spruce.
The female insect generally effects an entrance at one of the
fissures of the bark, bores under the latter, and deposits the ova
along a vertical main gallery, which commences with a curve
before proceeding for a length of about 3'2 to 5*6 inches parallel
to the axis of the stem. Ovi-deposition is continued for about
3 to 4 weeks, up to 100 eggs being laid fairly close to each other in
niches or indentations along the edges of the main gallery. The
bore-holes, by means of which the insects effect an entrance, are
not infrequently noticeable from the yellowish outflow of resin on
the bark.
The larvae eat sinuous galleries in the cambial layer of the
bark on each side of the main gallery, without boring into the
sapwood, and pass through the stage of chrysalides in pupal
chambers formed in the bark. The imago, of a brighter colour
at first than afterwards, appears as a rule in June, 11 to 12 weeks
after the laying of the eggs, or later if the spring weather has
been backward and unfavourable ; it bores its way out through
the bark for the purpose of at once proceeding to produce a
second generation. That a second generation could be produced
during the year, was formerly doubted by many; but recent
observations have proved that in mild situations such is the rule,
whilst in rawer and more unfavourable localities, where the
swarming in spring is usually a good deal later, only a single or
simple generation obtains.
The beetles belonging to the second generation, often, too,
stragglers belonging to the first generation, that have been late of
developing, bore their way into the tops of the youngest shoots
just below the buds, and after eating the pith, either turn and
leave again by the entrance-hole or else from a special exit-hole.
The entrance-hole is generally noticeable by the formation of a
shell of resin round about it. Shoots, that have thus been
1 Weymouth Pines are often attacked and badly injured by this beetle.
