148 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
hollowed out, break as soon as any strong wind comes, and may
often be found covering the ground in great numbers, whilst the
trees themselves look as if they had been artificially trimmed by
cropping : this is particularly the case when the injury has been
repeated frequently, as from the constant loss of the side- shoots
the crowns assume a pointed, cypress-like shape. The insect is,
from this peculiarity, generally known as the Waldgdrtner or wood-
land-gardener throughout Germany. The beetle itself hibernates
in fissures of the bark, or under moss, and more frequently still
inside the thick bark of the lower portion of the bole into which
it bores its way.
This insect does less damage during the larval stage than is
occasioned by the fully developed beetle. Owing to the strong
exudation of resin from the healthier stems, its attacks are
principally confined to felled timber, or to sickly and unhealthy
crops; healthy trees are only attacked when the swarms have
become excessive. But the imago does very considerable injury
in the portions of the growing-stock attacked, especially along
the edge of compartments and in pole-forests, where it is chiefly
to be found, by annually repeating its interference with the
normal development of the crown ; it often completely cripples
the crops in growth. Thus woods in the vicinity of timber
depots, saw-mills, &c., often show exceedingly bad development,
in consequence of the attacks of this beetle.
The protective and exterminative measures available against it
are similar to those adoptable against the Spruce bark-beetle. These
include keeping the woods as clean as possible, the removal of all
sickly trees, or of individual stems which the bore-dust lying at
their base, the white shells of resin, and the entrance-holes in the
thick bark indicate to have been already infested, and the placing
of decoy-stems here and there in spring and during summer,
combined with the peeling and burning of the bark at the proper
times. The timber and fuel obtained from the winter fall acts
very beneficially in this way ; but if not removed from the woods
before the end of May, it should certainly be barked -then.
Sweeping together the hollowed shoots and twigs, which lie
scattered on the ground, is of little avail, as they have usually
been quitted by the beetles before they break off.
