150 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
74. Other Cambial Beetles, Hylesinini.
Among these may be mentioned the following, on account of
their occasionally occurring as very injurious insects :
The large Spruce cambial beetle, Hylesinus (Dendroctonus)
micans, characterised by its size, 0'32 to 0*36 inches, and also by the
fact of the larvae living and feeding in family or common galleries
under the bark as in the case of BostricJius laricis. They chiefly
attack standing timber, and frequently bore into Spruce trees
that are perfectly sound, for the outflow of resin seems to in-
convenience them much less than it does other species of bark
and cambial beetles. At the same time the beetle usually bores
into stems and poles immediately above the ground, where its
presence is betrayed by the resinous exudations. Protection and
prevention are difficult, being confined to the felling and barking
of stems that have been attacked.
The black Pine Cambial Beetle, Hylesinus (Hylastes) ater, and the
black Spruce Cambial Beetle, Hylesinus (Hylastes) cunicularis, exhibit
many points of resemblance in their habits and life-history.
Both belong to the root-boring class, and, along with a number of
other less frequent cambial-beetles (Hyl. angustatus, attenuate,
&c.) deposit their ova somewhat early in spring within the fresh
stumps and roots of recently-felled conifers, the former princi-
pally on Pine stumps, the latter mostly on Spruce, where the
larvae soon begin to feed throughout the cambial layer, but
without forming any distinct sort of galleries, as the whole sub-
stance between the wood and the bark becomes transformed by
them into a brownish kind of bore-dust. But towards the end of
June the beetles make their appearance, and migrate to young Pine
and Spruce thickets, where they attack the tender bark near the
neck or upper part of the roots, and also gnaw it near the base of
the stem. In the latter case they also at the same time bore
under the bark, and often make tunnels in the cambium right round
the bole, so that plants only slightly injured sicken in growth
(wilt), whilst those badly injured soon die off.
The grubbing up of stumps, and, as far as practicable, of all
the roots, especially during May and early in June, after ovi-
deposition has taken place, the burying of decoy-sticks in the
ground as breeding-places for the second generation, the pulling
out and burning of saplings or young transplants that are of
