DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 151
sickly growth and weakly development, and, finally, waiting with
the re-wooding of areas recently cleared of timber until the
stumps and roots left in the ground have become too dry to serve
as congenial breeding-places, are the best protective .and remedial
measures to be adopted against the above-named species of
noxious root-boring insects, which too often fail to receive the
attention they really demand.
B. WEEVILS, EOSTRAL OR PROBOSCID BEETLES (Curculionidse).
75. The large brown Eostral Beetle or Pine Weevil, Eyldbius Abietis. 1
(FwfePlatel. fig. 10.)
This beetle (weevil), from 0'32 to 0'52 inches in length, and
016 to 0*24 inches in breadth, with a moderately long and thick
rostrum or proboscis, is dark brown to deep red in colour.
Yellow marks occur between the eyes, on the sides of the thorax
and abdomen, and on the elytra ; these are formed by clusters of
diminutive yellow hairy scales, which look like transverse bands
on the outer wings, and are very prominent on the beetle when it
issues from the chrysalis, but which gradually get more or less
obliterated by rubbing later on.
Until quite recently, the opinions held by the most eminent
authorities concerning the life-history of this most important,
most injurious, and prolific devastator of young timber crops,
which is annually collected and destroyed in millions in the coni-
ferous forests of Germany, were, strange to say, characterised by
great indefiniteness and want of unanimity. After observations
extending over many years, Altum asserted that one generation
took two years for its complete development, whilst Eichhoff
denied this altogether, and maintained that a double generation
during the year was much more probable. These diametrically
opposed opinions, and the whole uncertainty about the matter,
arose from the fact that recently-developed beetles, as well as
beetles that had (to judge from the faint markings on their elytra)
been swarming for some considerable time, and also larvae in every
stage of development, might all be found at one and the same
time. But a series of observations made by Yon Oppen, in a very
careful manner, with beetles confined under circumstances ap-
