DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 153
round in the following spring. They then have a wealth of
material suitable for breeding-places offered to them on the falls
of the mature timber cleared during autumn and winter. The
generation may therefore perfectly well be said to occupy two years,
without in any way excluding the possibility and probability of a
simple annual generation of a portion of the beetles in consequence
of the ovi-deposition being continued throughout the whole year,
and of the more rapid development on warm situations and during
hot summers.
The damage done by the beetles which come out in summer is
not very considerable, as they very soon take to their winter
quarters according to Altum, indeed, as early as the end of
August. They hibernate on areas with a thick soil-covering of
grass or weeds, preferring the edges of the crops bordering the
last falls of timber, where their breeding-places lie, so as to be near
at hand to commence their feeding and reproduction in spring, as
above described.
Comparatively innocuous as is the boring of the larvae, the
damage done by the long-lived beetles is often enormous, for they
gnaw off patches of the young and tender bark from the stems
and branches of young Pine and Spruce plants, as well as of other
conifers, though only to a less extent, and in case of necessity even
attack different kinds of broad-leaved species, especially Oaks,
that may be interspersed among the conifers. In addition to the
bark, the beetle also devours the carnbial layer above the sap-
wood ; the patches gnawed, in size and shape often resembling a
lentil, get coated over with resin, and thus give the plants a
scabby appearance. When attacked to any great extent, the
young plants often die off in very large numbers, so that extensive
plantations may either be totally ruined, or at best a considerable
amount of re-planting may be necessitated.
The damage inflicted throughout the vast coniferous forests of
Germany by this beetle have often been very considerable during
the last few decades, necessitating the outlay of large sums
without the attainment of satisfactory results in all cases. The
present method in Germany of making clear falls of mature timber
annually over extensive areas stocked with Spruce and Scots Pine,
which in many localities forms the rule, and the location of large
clearance areas side by side with the young plantations formed for
the reproduction of the woods that have been utilised, together with
