DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 155
With the same object in view, an alternation of the fall in different
localities, in place of having the annual crops following each other
contiguously, is also highly recommendable ; and the longer the
period elapsing between the planting up of each two contiguous
falls, so much the better. And, at the same time, it must be
pointed out that, by natural reproduction under present standards,
or by the formation of mixed crops, instead of total clearance with
artificial regeneration, chiefly by means of planting, we have the
means of obviating attacks to a considerable degree, or at any rate
of very materially diminishing their severity.
In the conduct of annihilative or exterminative measures, the
main object must be to get hold of the beetle if possible in its
breeding-places, that is to say, in the fresh clearances of the
previous year. This can best be arranged for by digging narrow
trenches round the recent falls in early spring, in order to intercept
the beetles coming crawling from their winter quarters to lay their
ova in the new stumps. For this purpose the trenches should be
about one foot deep, and with smoothly cut perpendicular walls,
with holes also a foot in depth dug here and there along the base,
to serve as pitfalls or traps. But as, at the same time, many
beetles can reach the area in flight, these trenches are even more
useful during the summer of the second year, by hindering the
newly-developed beetles from crawling away from the area : the
trenches should be examined every day, the beetles being collected
together and destroyed.
And on the newly-cleared areas themselves, and places already
infested with the insects, endeavours should also be made to attract
the beetles to decoy-objects. Such include pieces of bark recently
stripped from Spruce or Pine stems, laid so as to have the cambial
layer next to the ground, and held down in position by being
weighted with a stone, and also faggots about 3 or 3 J feet long, cut
from recently-felled Spruce or Pine poles, from which a strip of
bark about lj to 2 inches broad has been peeled off lengthways, and
which are then laid on the ground with the barked part lowermost
and touching the soil. Attracted by the fresh resinous odour, the
beetles come to these decoys, attack the cambial layer, and as they
take a fairly good hold of it, they can easily be collected daily.
By spreading bundles of fresh Pine branches on the areas cleared,
the beetles can also be induced to feed on them, and can then be
collected by being shaken or tapped out on to sheets spread on
