156 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
the ground to receive them when falling. The best way of
destroying the beetles is by pouring boiling water over them when
collected.
And finally, the beetles can also be induced to deposit their
ova in specially prepared breeding-faggots, thin coniferous sticks,
of 3 to 3J feet in length, which are buried near the surface of
the soil, several of them being set close to each other, and the
places marked with a peg so as to find them easily again.
The brood is annihilated by pealing off the bark from the sticks.
This method is usually of considerable success during the second
year, during which neither the beetle coming out of its winter
quarters, nor the newly-developed beetle, can find other suitable
sappy breeding-places on the fall of the previous year, with its
dried-up stumps.
It should be distinctly borne in mind that endeavours must
always be made to destroy the beetles in the places where they are
developed, and that operations for exterminating the insect must
not be delayed, as was so often the case until comparatively
recently, until they attack the young seedling crops.
76. The small Brown or White-spotted Weevil or Rostral Beetle,
Pissodes notatus.
(Fide Plate I. figs. Sand 13.)
This cambial beetle, from 0'24 to 0'32 inches in length, and of
a dark red brown colour, is irregularly covered with small scales
having a covering of greyish-white hairs, with a number of plainly
visible small white dots on the thorax ; on the elytra two rusty
red transverse bands are noticeable, which bear white and yellow
scales, and of which the upper is interrupted at the junction of
the wings. The rostrum or proboscis is rather long and thin.
The beetle swarms about May, and then deposits its ova for
the most part under the whorls of 5 to 10-year-old Pines (Scots,
Weymouth, and Black or Austrian), and also in the bark of
dominated or suppressed poles. When the larvae, which are
yellowish-white in colour with a brown head, appear, they penetrate
downwards, eating sinuous galleries in the cambial layer, and at
the end of these hollow out a pupal chamber in the sap wood. Here
they plaster up the vacant space with the bore-dust, and then enter
