DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 157
the chrysalid stage. The fully-developed beetle makes its exit
from the pupal chamber by boring a circular exit-hole, in the
month of August or sometimes later, and hibernates under moss,
or in the fissures of the bark of trees. The generation is conse-
quently simple or annual, although Eichhoff has recently asserted
that it is double, which seems hardly likely to be the case.
As a beetle, this insect damages plants by boring into them for
nourishment, and young growth often shows a great number of such
small wounds or punctures ; but the injuiry done by the larvae is
of a much more serious nature, frequently leading to the sickening
of large numbers of plants, and killing them outright when the
borings are numerous or the plants small. In many districts
this beetle is considered one of the most injurious insect enemies
of young seedling crops and plantations, but fortunately its distri-
bution is not nearly so general as that of its near relative,
Hylobius dbietis, already described in the preceding paragraph.
The uprooting of plants infested by the Iarva3, whose presence
may be betrayed by the young shoots drooping and losing their
colour, about the month of July, and then burning them, is the
only really practical way of fighting against this enemy ; but at
the same time it is a fairly successful remedy, and, if persevered
in consistently for several years in succession, ends by almost
completely annihilating the pest. Poles that are attacked by
them should also be felled and barked; but it is much more
difficult to detect the infested poles than to discover the younger
plants attacked.
77. Other Weevils, or Rynchophorous, Rostral, or Proloscid Beetles,
Curculionidte.
Although amongst the numerous rostral beetles there are
many which are often decidedly injurious to coniferous woods,
mention will be confined to the three following species only.
The Harz Weevil, or Rostral Beetle of the Harz, Pissodes hercynioe,
is a thin beetle about 0*24 inches in length, and almost black in
colour, with two narrow whitish-yellow stripes across the elytra,
which has frequently committed great devastations on the Harz
mountains and the Erz Gebirge. It only attacks Spruce, and
principally crops between 60 to 100 years of age. Whilst the
