158 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
beetles swarm and fly about in May and June, the female deposits
her ova in small clusters in holes bored with the rostrum or pro-
boscis into the upper parts of the trees still retaining their smooth
bark. From this breeding-place as a centre, the larvae bore
sinuous and irregular radiating galleries in the cambial layer,
which increase in breadth as the larva increases in size, and
terminate in pupal chambers formed exclusively in the sap wood,
and filled up with bore-dust, within which the chrysalides rest.
Whether the generation occupies one year or two is not yet fully
determined. 1 The trees attacked soon fall into a sickly and
unhealthy state, and if much injured die off, whilst at the same
time these sickly stems offer considerable attraction as suitable
and favourable breeding-places for other noxious insects, bark-
beetles in particular. The white drops of resin, which exude from
the punctures made by the rostrum for the deposition of the ova,
betray to the practised eye the trees that have become attacked,
and when the beetle occurs in any great numbers, such stems
should be marked, felled, and barked an operation which must
be repeated from time to time throughout the summer.
The Pine-pole Weevil or Rostral Beetle, Pissodes pinipliilus.
This beetle very much resembles, but is a little smaller than,
P. notatus. It is of a rusty-brown colour, with one characteristic
rusty-yellow patch on each of the elytra, and lives in the thin-
barked upper portions of Pine poles, although also to be found on
stems of older growth, where the female deposits her ova singly
in holes bored for the purpose. When the larvae come out, they
eat sinuous and very irregular galleries in the cambial layer, which
gradually increase in breadth, and at length terminate in small
pupal chambers formed in the sapwood, where the chrysalides rest.
The time of swarming is in June, so that the generation is eit
annual or extends over exactly two years, a point not yet det
mined. 2 This insect has hitherto not received very much attentic
although it sometimes occurs rather frequently. Poles and stei
that have been attacked sicken if at all badly injured, and ult
1 Hess, op. cit., vol. i. page 267, states that it is annual as a rule, but that there
are exceptions and deviations from the rule. Altum says the generation occupies
two years, whilst Eichhoff assigns to it also a double generation. No Von Oppen has
as yet thrown the light of his observations on the subject. Trans.
8 Here, again, Altum says it takes two years, and Eichhoff asserts that a double
generation takes place within the year. Hess (page 264) thinks an annual generation
is most probable.
