160 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The female, after impregnation, seeks free open spaces as far as
possible for ovi-deposition, selecting light unoccupied soil, if
available, into which it burrows for a depth of 2 to 4 inches, and
then lays up to about thirty eggs in a cluster. Similar ovi-deposi-
tion takes place in several places, one female being capable of
laying up to about seventy eggs in all ; whenever this reproductive
function is complete the female dies.
About four weeks later the larvae or grubs come out from the
shell. During the first year they do not wander far from their
place of birth, but seem to nourish themselves from humus or
decomposing substances in the soil. When winter approaches
they go deeper into the soil in order to avoid the frost, but with
the return of spring ascend again nearer the surface, and now
commence feeding on the roots of plants throughout the whole of
the spring, summer, and autumn, after which they again hibernate
as grubs. In the third spring, summer, and autumn, they once more
repeat the process of gnawing and feeding on the roots of growing
plants ; and as during this third year the grubs are large and full-
grown, it is then that their voracity and the damage they do are
greatest. For the third time they hibernate as grubs, burrowing
deep into the soil, and when they re-ascend to the surface once
more in spring, they resume feeding for a short time ; but about
June, three years after their issue from the egg, they descend deep
into the soil, in order to pass through their stage of pupal rest.
The chrysalid metamorphosis takes place in a hollow scooped o
in the soil, and after a few months of pupal rest the comple
beetle emerges from it, being at first soft and white, but gradual!
hardening and deepening in colour. The beetle hibernates in th
soil without once coming to the surface, and does not emerge till
the following spring (May), when it makes its exit by means of
a hole resembling such an one as would be made by thrusting the
point of a walking-stick into the ground.
This beetle therefore requires four years for its full normal
development and generation, but in southern countries, in con-
sequence of the greater warmth, the generation takes place in
three years only, so that in cold northern tracts the beetles
usually swarm every fourth year, whilst in the warmer south they
may be anticipated every third year. In the intervening years
there are always some of these beetles to be seen flying about,
but only in comparatively moderate numbers.
st.
ut
I
