DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 161
As a beetle, this insect feeds on the leaves and flowers of most
trees of the broad-leaved species, particularly on the foliage of
Oak, Beech, Maple, Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, Willows and
Poplars, whilst among conifers it confines its attention mainly to
the soft tufts of needles of the Larch, and to the male flowers of
the Pine. During years in which it swarms in large numbers,
whole woods of broad-leaved trees may often be seen almost or
even entirely denuded of foliage, but as these are able to replace,
although perhaps only partially, their leafy crowns by means of
the midsummer-shoots or summer flush of leaves, the damage is
practically confined merely to loss of increment for the time
being. 1
Commencing from the second year, as a grub, it devours
the tender rootlets of all kinds of plants, especially the roots
of perennial grasses and weeds containing rich stores of reserves,
and also the roots of young coniferous seedlings, so that young
plants of the latter species quickly die off, whilst older plants are
at least interfered with in the vigour of their development. In
seed-beds, which from their light porous soil offer special
attractions to the female beetle when laying her eggs, and on
extensive falls of Scots Pine on soils of a class also favourable to
the most suitable conditions of ovi-deposition, grubs have been
known to occasion an extraordinary amount of damage. Hence
the cockchafer may well be reckoned as decidedly belonging to
the most dangerous class of injurious forest insects.
The devastations which have been, and are still, caused by the
grubs in some of the extensive Scots Pine plantations, in Northern
Germany in particular, are on a vast scale ; so much so, indeed, that in
some localities sylvicultural operations have had to be suspended,
whilst in other parts, instead of having well-grown thickets in full
canopy, the best results of infinite trouble and patient labour are
patchy crops of branching and badly-developed pole-forest.
Endeavours can be made to obviate such disasters by not
1 That is to say, the damage is apparently confined to temporary loss of increment
only. But as a matter of fact, after total destruction of the spring flush of leaves, a
summer flush can only replace them by means of the utilisation of the reserve supplies
of nutriment so much more richly stored up in broad-leaved trees than in the ever-
green conifers (the deciduous Larch is better endowed in this respect than Pines,
Spruce, or Silver Fir). Until, therefore, these starchy reserves have been replaced by
a surplus of nutrient matter over the actual requirements of each tree for structural
and functional purposes, the original status quo ante cannot possibly be attained as
regards either general vigour in growth or wood -producing capacity. Trans.
