164 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
Moles are particularly keen in hunting after the grubs, whilst
such as are turned up to the surface by the ploughshare are
eagerly devoured by crows and starlings.
The Horse-chestnut Cockchafer, Melolontha hippocastani, on the
whole closely resembles the May-beetle in appearance, habits, and
life-history, but is of less frequent occurrence, and can easily be
distinguished from this by its red thorax.
The Fuller or Garden Beetle, Polyphylla fullo, the largest of
the cockchafer genera, also occurs rather frequently here and
there throughout sandy tracts, being easily recognisable by its
brown outer wings, marbled with white,
II. MOTHS (Lepidoptera).
A. SPINNERS (Bombycidx).
79. The, Pine Moth, Bombyx (Gastropacha) pini.
This moth has a span of 2*4 to 3*2 inches when the wings
are fully extended, but that of the female is considerably greater
than that of the male. The body is thick, the head small and
nearly hidden under the thorax. The eyes are large and
prominent. The antennye are shortly plumose in the female, but
long and double-feathered in the male. The upper pair of wings
is indistinctly toothed along the lower edge. There is a thick
covering of hairy growth at the base of the wings, on the legs, and
on the abdomen. The front wings and the body are greyish-brown
in colour, and the former have a reddish-brown horizontal band or
belt across them bisecting the wings, which have a dark fringe along
the lower edge ; about the middle of the upper half of each of
these wings, that next to the body, there is a white half-iiKH in-
shaped spot standing out prominently from its dark surroundings.
The back pair of wings and the abdomen are of a monotonous
brown colour, whilst the whole of the under side is of a li.^lit
greyish-brown throughout. In colour the male butterfly is
usually much brighter than the female ; but with regard to the
colouring, sports of all kinds, melanic and the opposite, are
comparatively frequent. When the moths are sitting at rest,
the outer wings lie over the under ones like shingles, or slates
on a roof.
