166 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
the needles down to the sheaths enclosing them, and in bad years,
when the foliage becomes totally denuded, destroying even the
young buds, in which latter case the crop is naturally killed. So
long, however, as they can still get food elsewhere, the voracious
caterpillars, whose requirements in the way of forage are indeed
very considerable, spare the young shoots.
The pupal rest is entered into about the end of June, the
chrysalides occupying the fissures in the bark, where the flakes
of dead rind stand out prominently from the stem, or else the
cocoons are formed up among the branches in the crown. The fully-
developed moths make their appearance after a pupal rest of
about three weeks. This moth lives only on Pines, chiefly Scots
Pine, and principally attacks crops of older growth on soils
of inferior quantity, as these are especially favourable to the
hibernation of the caterpillars ; but when reproduced in large
numbers it also naturally attacks younger crops, such as pole-
forests, and even young thickets and new plantations. It belongs
to the most injurious class of forest insects, and has at various
times committed enormous devastations in the Scots Pine forests
that cover such a great extent of country throughout the North
German Plain, as also in the large Pine forests of the same
species which occur here and there in Southern Germany,
absolutely ruining vast stretches of woodlands by totally de-
nuding them of foliage. In such localities the forester and the
sylviculturist have every reason to bestow very careful attention
on this insect wherever it makes its appearance.
The formation of mixed woods has been recommended as a
preventive measure, for it is well known from experience that the
individual species are then least exposed to attacks, and suffer far
less from insect enemies than when grown in pure forests ; but on
the poor classes of sandy soil to which the Scots Pine is so often
assigned, there are such difficulties in the way of getting other
species to thrive as to render this measure often quite impracti-
cable.
A constant and careful revision of the whole of the growing
stock, and not merely of a few of the annual crops, is a most
important protective measure, so that wherever any considerabB
increase of the insect is to be feared, prompt action may be taken
to obviate the otherwise certain results. In addition to keeping a
look-out at the usual time of the swarming of the moths, and to
