DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 167
noting any fall of excrement on the ground during the time whilst
caterpillars may be feeding among the foliage, examinations of the
soil should also be made here and there about November, after
the caterpillars have descended from the trees fojr the purpose
of hibernating under the moss, especially in such localities as
sandy ridges, or in crops of sickly and backward growth, which
are most likely to develop into hot-beds of reproduction. An
experimental area should be selected and marked off, and the dead
foliage and moss should be removed in order to see how many
caterpillars can be collected. Should about 10 to 20 per stem,
according to the age of the crop and the size of the trees, be found,
one may take it for granted that there are really 4 or 5 times as
many actually present, and, in view of the rapid and prolific
reproduction of the moth, it will be advisable to take measures for
preventing its numerical increase.
One of the best methods of annihilating this enemy consists in
the formation of a ring of tar round each of the stems. This
measure was not formerly held in any great repute, as the ordinary
tar applied dried up too soon, and it was found practically
impossible to go on re-forming girdles to maintain them effective.
But, now that it has been found easy to produce a kind of patent
viscous tar or caterpillar-glue, at a fairly cheap rate, which will
remain sticky and effective for eight weeks and longer, this method
of forming narrow rings or girdles of patent tar round each of the
stems has recently, although somewhat costly, become almost the
sole preventive measure adopted, as it has achieved brilliant
results in preventing the continued excessive reproduction of this
insect. As the method of carrying out the operation has already
been described (vide par. 61), it is unnecessary to repeat the
information here.
The collection of the caterpillars in their winter quarters,
formerly held in considerable estimation, has at all times been
productive only of unsatisfactory results, as even with the most
careful search on the experimental areas themselves, and still more
throughout extensive portions of crops, many of the caterpillars,
especially of the smaller ones, are apt to get overlooked. Their
collection during summer, by knocking or rapping on poles and
young trees, so as to throw them down to the ground, is only
possible in pole-forest, and even there it is dear, as well as being
a very troublesome and ineffective measure.
