168 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The collection of ova and pupae is also at best only a very
disappointing and ineffective sort of measure, as also the killing of
the moths during bad weather whilst they are seated at rest low
down on the sheltered side of the stem during the time of their ,
swarming.
Trenches, either for isolating a crop infested, or for intercepting
the migration of the caterpillars from place to place within the
area attacked, can only be of use when the latter are either con-
fined within small areas, or occur in such numbers as to denude
the trees of foliage, and are thus forced to wander about, or
migrate to neighbouring areas in search of food. Where young
timber crops especially are anything like contiguous to older
crops likely to be totally defoliated, they certainly require to be
protected by trenches against the migratory caterpillars. For the
large caterpillar of this species of moth the trenches require to be
depth up to about two feet, and with walls as clean cut and
perpendicular as possible. Along the sole of the trenches holes
are again dug as traps for the caterpillars ; those caught in them
should be crushed or killed by having earth heaped on them.
The mere removal of moss, or of the layer of dead foliage with
which the ground is covered, is of almost no avail so far as any
probable removal of the caterpillars along with it is concerned. .
The numbers of the enemies of this insect which destroy the
caterpillars or chrysalides is very small among birds, on account of
the hairy growth of the former, and the large protective cocoons
in the case of the latter : the cuckoo is the most useful of all the
birds in devouring the caterpillars. Mammals, too, even including
swine, disdain on this account the caterpillars hibernating on the
ground, though, on the other hand, a considerable number of the
ova are annihilated by tomtits and other small birds ; but then,
unfortunately, the period of life spent in the ovum only lasts for
a few weeks.
It is due in a far higher degree to the so-called useful forest
insects, especially ichneumon-flies (Ichneumonidx), that a Li re-
number of caterpillars, and even of eggs, is naturally destroyed ; for,
particularly when attacks have lasted for any length of time on
any very extensive scale, a disproportionately larger number of
caterpillars than usual become infested with ichneumon-larvae, 1
1 The dead caterpillars, thickly covered with the small white cocoons ofMicrogaster
globatua, are often visible on the trees from some little distance.
