DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. . 169
although this does not usually take place until after the devasta-
tions have passed their culminating point.
The hairy caterpillars are by no means sensitive to either wet
or cold. But nature sometimes comes to the assistance of the
sylviculturist with parasitic fungoid diseases, to which the cater-
pillars often succumb in large numbers, especially in soft, damp,
humose soil, so that sometimes all of them observed in their winter
quarters are found to be dead.
80. The Black Arches, " Nun" or Spruce Moth, Bomlyx (Liparis)
monacha. 1
(Vide Plate II. fig. 16.)
When extended, the wings of the female moth have a span of
1*6 to 24 inches ; the male is smaller, and also easily distinguishable
by its beautiful double-feathered antennae. The outer wings and
upper part of the body are in both genders white, with numerous
deeply-arched zigzag stripes, varying from brownish-black to black
in colour ; the lower pair of wings are brownish-grey, with bright
black-dotted edges ; the abdomen is mostly of a beautiful rose-
colour, with black horizontal or transverse bands, but is also at
times more of a blackish tinge.
The caterpillar, which is about 1'6 inches in length when full-
grown, is of a dirty-green colour on the lower side, and whitish-
grey to reddish-grey on the upper ; along the back there is a
broad grey stripe, which commences with a heart-shaped black
patch on the second ring or section of the body, but narrows, and
is interrupted by a broad light patch on the seventh and eighth
rings. On each section of the body there are six small knob-like
hairy warts, of which the two first, on the first ring, tower above
the others, whilst those to the right and left of the back stripe are
blue, and constitute a characteristic sign for the recognition of
this caterpillar, which often varies exceedingly in colour. 2
The densely-haired chrysalis, at first of a greenish colour, but
1 For an exhaustive account of this insect, and of the ravages committed by it in
the Spruce Forests of Bavaria during 1889-91, see the Translator's Report in the
Transactions of the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland for 1893. Trans.
2 Melanic sports are particularly frequent, occurring mostly in Scots Pine woods.
This is supposed to be a natural effort of adaptation to the darker stems of the
Pine trees, in order to protect the insects from enemies. Trans.
