170 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
afterwards changing into brown with a bronzy shimmer, lies
within a very flimsy cocoon, consisting of merely a few dirty
yellow threads spun between the fissures of the bark on the lower
portion of the stem, or among the needles on the branches and
twigs, or on underwood or brushwood.
The time of the swarming of the moths is about the end of
July or the beginning of August, or perhaps somewhat earlier
during dry years. During the day, and especially when the
weather is dull, they usually cluster about the lower portion of
the boles, whilst in bright sunshine the males in particular keep
fluttering about and revelling in the enjoyment of the brightness
and warmth. But, like most moths, their normal time of lively
motion is towards dusk, when they either flit about, or run up and
down the stems, seated upon which they enter in copuld. 1
After the course of a few days the ovi-deposition takes place,
the eggs being at first of a rose colour with bronzy shimmer, but
afterwards changing to a greyish brown with mother-of-pearl
lustre. The female moth lays her eggs beneath the scales of the
bark, and always under some sort of protection. When the insect
does not swarm in large numbers, the ova are mostly deposited on
the lower portion of the stem, usually within about fifteen feet
from the ground ; but when there are enormous flights of moths, as
during the calamitous devastations of the Spruce tracts of Bavaria
and Western Austria in 1889-1891, they cover the whole of the
stems from top to bottom. 2 One female can deposit as many as
150 to 170 ova, which are mostly laid in clusters of 20 to 50, though
sometimes all are deposited in one patch or nest.
Although in four weeks the larva becomes fully formed within
the ovum, the tiny caterpillars hibernate within the shell, and only
make their appearance in the next spring during April, or not
until May should the weather be unfavourable. After issuing
from the ova the young caterpillars remain for several days
collected together in clusters or schools on spots varying in size
from what might be covered by a penny to what the hand could
1 It is worthy of note that the numerical relation of sexes has been found during
the recent immense swarms in South Germany to be- 70 % male and 30 % fVin;ili',
evidently a provision of nature to make the impregnation of the latter a matter of
almost absolute certainty. Trans.
2 " In 1890, on large individual steins, 30,000, 50,000, and even 90,000 eggs \vi-re
found in the Ebersberg Park, and recently as many as 200,000 were found on one
btem in the Perlacher Park." Nitsche, " Die Nonne," 1892, page 8. Trans.
