DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 171
cover. These schools or colonies, a characteristic of this insect,
often plainly discernible by the contrast of the blackish cater-
pillars against the brown bark of the Spruce, often hardly
distinguishable against either Spruce or Pine, are broken up after
about 4 to 6 days, when the tiny caterpillars ascend the stems to
commence feeding on the foliage. They attack the lower portions
first, and gradually work up towards the summit of the crown,
denuding the branches and twigs of needles as they proceed
upwards. Their manner of feeding is very wasteful, for only in
the case of the Spruce do they entirely devour the spines, whilst
in regard to the Pine they bite the needles through about the
middle, and eat only the lower portion remaining ; the foliage of
broad-leaved species is in the same way only partially devoured,
the mid-rib being gnawed through, so that the larger part of the
leaf falls down to the ground, which is often littered with the
fragments of needles and leaves when the caterpillars are very
numerous.
During the process of their development, the caterpillars
change their skins four times, and until about half-grown they
are endowed with the power of spinning gossamer threads, by
means of which they let themselves down to the ground, or from
which they depend if blown or shaken down from the foliage.
Their feeding-time lasts till about the end of June or the
beginning of July, when the caterpillars descend from the stems
in troops in order to enter the pupal state of rest under the scales
of the bark, or on the undergrowth, &c.
The Black Arches moth or " Nun " (so called in Germany from
its plain black-and-white colouring) belongs to the most injurious
class of forest insects, and the devastations in Spruce and Pine
woods have at times been so enormous as to have totally denuded
very extensive areas of their foliage, and thus killed the crops.
Such calamitous attacks usually commence within the older crops,
but during high winds the young caterpillars are blown away on
their gossamer threads, and wafted over into pole-forests and
young seedling growth that may happen to be contiguous, where
they at once begin to feed. 1
1 When the moths swarm in great numbers, they often migrate from one place to
another. Thus, it was proved beyond doubt that in the recent enormous swarms in
Bavaria, the moths, attracted by the brilliant lights, used to accompany the railway
trains for considerable distances, travelling, of course, at night. Trans.
