DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 173
it is at best only a sort of half -measure. They are easily killed
near the base of the stem by the use of a leather flap tied to the
.end of a rod or stick, whilst a long thin pole with a thick knob of
cloth at the end is the best way of getting at them if seen at
some height above the ground, and beyond the ordinary reach
with the flapper. Altum recommends the smearing or soaking
of the latter with a solution of patent viscous tar. The principal
drawback of this method is, that the whole of the clusters of ova
are not all hatched at the same time, so that some schools or
colonies appear earlier, and others only later, whilst a constant
repetition of the process of destroying them is practically out of
the question.
The destruction of the larger caterpillars, as well as of chrysa-
lides and of moths, is always accompanied with difficulties, and on
the whole not particularly satisfactory, although at the same time
the somewhat lazy female seated quietly on the stem is easily
discernible and approachable, and can easily be killed or collected
during the daytime throughout the period of swarming.
The number of the natural enemies of this insect, and especially
of the hairy caterpillar, is comparatively small, as also in the case
of the Pine-moth ; but during the winter very large numbers of the
ova are devoured by many kinds of birds, particularly by tomtits,
whilst predatory species of insects, principally Ichneumonidw and
Tachininte, also annihilate many caterpillars. Like the Pine-
moth, this Spruce-moth is comparatively insensible to changes in
the weather and to climatic influences generally. But, at the
same time, it is usual for its ravages to cease also after the third
year, when the caterpillars, somewhat degenerate by that time,
and less both in size and vigour, die off in large numbers ; and
recently the opinion has been strongly expressed, that as annihi-
lative measures seem to be practically of little effect, it is per-
haps better not to spend money and time on them, but to leave
the matter for nature to assert its proper balance again.
Note. As the work of which this is a translation was published in 1889, before
the recent calamitous devastations throughout Bavaria and Western Austria, begun
in 1888, had anything like reached their culminating point in 1891, it may be per-
mitted to me to briefly indicate the exterminative measures which the experience
then won has proved to be most effectual. After the remedies previously held in
repute and above referred to had all been tried during 1889-1890, (including collection
of ova, crushing of young caterpillars whilst still in schools or colonies, and later on
collection of the full-grown caterpillars and chrysalides, and cutting and burning all
undergrowth covered with pupae), after experiments made with exhausters worked close
