DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 175
B. OWLET-MOTHS (Noctuidx).
81. The Pine Owlet-moth or Pine Beauty, Noctua (Trachea)
piniperda.
(Vide Plate III. % 20.)
Both male and female moths are about the same size, having a
span of 1'28 to 14 inches across the front wings, and are somewhat
similarly marked ; but they are distinguishable by means of the
more ciliated or feathered feelers of the male, and the somewhat
fuller abdomen of the female.
The front wings and the upper part of the body are brownish-
red spotted with white, and the larger lower spots on the wings
form a crescent pointing downwards when the moth is at rest ;
the hind wings and abdomen are of a dark brownish-grey colour,
the former having a lighter edge. The lower side is bluish-red,
becoming blackish-grey towards the bases of the front wings, but
merging into a black point on the lower pair. Melanic and other
sports in colour are not infrequent.
When full-grown, the caterpillar attains a length up to 1*6
inches. It is yellowish-green in colour, with 3 to 5 white longi-
tudinal markings, and a yellow or orange-coloured stripe on each
side running just above the spiracles and the legs, has a dark
head, and is only very slightly hairy. In consequence of the mal-
formation of the two first abdominal legs, it has a motion some-
what resembling that of a span-worm ; whilst in the younger
caterpillar stage, it is also endowed with the capacity of spinning
gossamer threads.
The chrysalis is about 0'64 inches in length, and more of a
green colour at first, but afterwards turns dark brown, with a two-
pointed termination at the lower extremity.
The moth swarms as early as the end of March or the begin-
ning of April, and enters in copula in the evening and during the
night, high up in the stems. After impregnation, the female
deposits her ova for the most part singly on the needles of
the trees, selecting pole-forest in preference to other crops.
When the tiny caterpillars make their appearance in May, they at
once commence feeding, gnawing first of all the sides of the needles,
but later on, after gaining strength, devouring the whole of the
