176 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
spines right down to the sheath. In July, when fully grown, the
caterpillars descend from their feeding-ground on the tree-foliage
for the purpose of entering into the pupal state of rest under the
moss with which the ground is usually covered. When this is
wanting, they hibernate as chrysalides in the soil itself, scattering
themselves over the whole of the area attacked until the following
spring again calls them into active life as imagines. The period of
pupal rest is therefore of exceptional length, extending over eight
months.
The Pine Owlet-moth or Pine Beauty lives only on Pines, and
especially in pole-forests ; but when its reproduction is favoured
by warm dry weather it becomes very prolific, and has at various
times done very considerable damage over extensive areas, some-
times totally destroying pole-forests of Pine amounting to 2000
acres in one block (e.g., Bunzlau town forest in Silesia, 1884).
Among birds and animals this insect has a great many natural
enemies, which either feed on the almost naked caterpillar, or
else on the chrysalides lying unprotected on the soil for about
eight months. Such enemies include birds of all descriptions,
predatory insects (Carabidw), flies (Tach/inin&), and ichneumon-
flies (Ichneumonidx), then swine, badger, hedgehog, and mice.
The caterpillars are also extremely sensitive to damp, cold, raw
weather, which often kills them off with great rapidity, 1 so that
this sensitiveness, coupled with the action of their natural enemi<
often effectually suppresses their tendency to numerical increase.
The herding of swine in the woods is a good practice
annihilative measure, as they are particularly fond of tl
chrysalides, and know very well how to find them out; wh<
any wild-pigs are still maintained, the presence of the insect
often be betrayed by examining the vicinity of patches whei
they have broken up the soil with their snouts when in quest
the pupae.
In pole-forests that have been attacked, the caterpillars
easily be brought down to the ground by shaking the young pol<
or tapping older ones with a padded mallet or axe-head (vide
61) ; and they can often be killed off in heaps when they
1 In some of the Pine woods of Northern Bavaria the year 1889 threatened to brinj
a plague of these owlet-moths, but suddenly, about the middle of June, nearly all tl
caterpillars, which were nearly full-grown by that time, died off, without ani
apparent reason being deducible from changes in temperature and weather, parasit
or similar intelligible reason.
