DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 177
completed their feeding on the foliage, and descended from the
trees in order to enter the pupal state, as they frequently collect
in large clusters at the foot of the stems before betaking them-
selves to their winter (chrysalid) quarters.
As the caterpillars exhibit no migratory tendencies, the forma-
tion of trenches within and around the crops attacked would be
of little practical avail as an exterminative measure.
C. SPANWORMS OR LOOPERS (Geometrida).
82. The Geometrical Moth, Bordered White Moth, or Pine Span-
worm, Geometra (Fidonia) piniaria.
(Vide Plate IV. fig. 25.)
The male and female moths differ very little in size, but vary
I essentially in colour ; the wings, when extended, have a span of
about 1'28 inches.
The female has simple comb-like feelers and ruddy-brown wings
i with a broad dark edge. Two dark-brown transverse stripes run
i 1 across the lower pair of wings, and one similar stripe passes across
the upper pair. The lower edges of the wings have a row of
| alternating light and dark spots.
The male, however, has large feathery antennae, and is
i ! brownish-yellow in colour instead of ruddy-brown, with broad
I dark-brown edging and transverse stripes, whilst the lower edges
of the wings are tipped with brown and yellow spots.
The lower side of the insect is similar in both genders, being
of a brownish colour, with dark transverse lines, a broad
I yellowish-white longitudinal stripe, and numerous small brown
; and white spots.
When the moths are at rest the wings are borne upright.
The caterpillar is about 14 inches in length when full-grown.
| It is of a yellowish-green colour, with three white longitudinal
; stripes, which are also continued on the head; close below the
spiracles there is a yellow line along each side, whilst three
j yellowish longitudinal stripes are also noticeable on the lower
I side or belly of the span worm or looper.
The chrysalis is about 048 inches in length, and very much
resembles that of the Pine Beauty, being greenish at first, and
f (then gradually changing into dark-brown ; but it is easily dis-
M
