178 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS
tinguishable by having only one point at the lower extremity,
and by being somewhat less in size.
The time of the swarming of the moths is during May and
June, when the males may be noticed flitting about during the
daytime, although like other moths their natural time of activity
is towards night. After impregnation, the female deposits her
bright-green ova on the needles of the Pine, near the summit of
the crown, and on the foliage at the extreme end of the side-
shoots. The tiny caterpillars make their appearance about the
beginning of July, and at once begin to feed, commencing by
only gnawing the needles slightly, but afterwards biting them
through about the middle, so that the upper half falls to the
ground, whilst they devour the lower portion remaining. Thus,
directly the opposite takes place here of what occurs in the case
of the Spruce-moth, for whilst the " Nun " carries on its destruc-
tive work from below upwards (i.e. centrifugally), the Pine span-
worm devours the foliage from above downwards (i.e. centripetally).
The spanworms or caterpillars have the power of spinning
themselves down to the ground on gossamer threads, and often
let themselves down to the ground in this way before entering
the pupal state of rest.
The chrysalid metamorphosis takes place about October, either
under moss or on the surface of the soil, the caterpillars often
lying extended on the ground for some time awaiting the final
change of skin, during which they enter the pupal state. The
chrysalides lie scattered about the whole of the area that has
been infested with the spanworms, and do not necessarily confine
themselves merely to the extent overshadowed by the crowns
which they have been feeding.
The Pine spanworm or Bordered white moth has often
known to commit extensive devastation in certain localities ;
here again, although it may also be occasionally found on other
species of trees, it is young pole-forests of Scots Pine which most
of all suffer from its attacks. Its power of inflicting injury on an
extensive scale is diminished by the facts that, in the first place,
it does not commence feeding till the new spines or needles are :
completely developed, and the young buds for the following yearto
foliage are already actually formed, and that, in the second ]>l;i<r,
experience has hitherto shown that two bad years of spanworms
occur only very exceptionally in succession.
