DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 179
The spanworm is, like the caterpillar of the Pine Beauty, very
sensitive to atmospheric influences and changes in temperature,
whilst both caterpillars and chrysalides have also numerous
enemies that render material assistance in keeping down any
tendency towards too prolific increase. But when, despite these
checking influences, large swarms actually occur to anything like a
calamitous extent, epidemics due to fungoid infection usually soon
break out among the caterpillars, and with such virulence as prac-
tically to kill them all off very rapidly.
As a protective or an exterminative measure, swine may be
driven into the woods during autumn and winter, to rout out the
pupse ; or the shaking and tapping of poles may be resorted to
during summer in woods where the presence of the spanworms
has been observed. For crops that are badly infested, Altum
strongly recommends the raking together of the dead foliage in
heaps or lines late in autumn, as the caterpillars and chrysalides
thus laid bare on the strips cleared of foliage are more accessible
to birds, and perish from the cold during winter, whilst those
lying under the heaps of dead needles never attain development
during the following spring. But this measure is only applicable
when the plague of insects is concentrated within a comparatively
small area. On poor soils it is essential, for the maintenance of
their productive capacity, that the dead foliage should be replaced
in its normal position during the following spring ; and even on
the better classes of soil this will also be certainly advisable,
though not so absolutely necessary.
D. LEAF-KOLLERS (TortriMse).
83. The Pine-slwot Tortrix or Pine Twig -twister, Tortrix
(Retinia) buoliana.
(Vide Plate IV. fig. 23.)
Though small, this can under certain circumstances become a
very dangerous insect in woodlands. This butterfly, or rather
moth, has a span of about 0'8 inches. The narrow upper wings
and the front part of the body are yellowish-red in colour, with
silvery-white, sinuous, transverse bands across them, having a
bluish tinge about the middle, and with greyish-white edging;
the lower pair of wings are of a glossy, silky grey, also tipped
