180 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
with greyish-white fringes. The lower side is of a glossy, silk-
like dark-grey, and spotted with yellowish-red and white near
the upper edges.
The caterpillar, attaining a length of about O56 inches, is light-
brown in colour, with glossy black head and thorax.
The chrysalis is of a dirty yellowish-brown colour, and about
0'32 inches in length.
The moth swarms during the evenings about the beginning of
July, whilst during the daytime it remains quietly seated on the
needles and shoots of young Pines, with the wings ranged over
each other like the tiles on a roof.
The female deposits her eggs singly on the buds of the young
shoots, almost unexceptionally of young Scots Pine between
5 and 12 years of age, into which the tiny caterpillars proceed to
bore, when they make their appearance from the shell in August ;
but owing to the diminutive size of the caterpillar, the havoc it is
beginning to commit is hardly noticeable during the first autumn.
During the following spring the caterpillar becomes more ener-
getic and active, and the damage done is greater ; still the bud is
able to develop itself partially, before the shoot dies off through
being hollowed out. As a rule, the terminal bud gets hollowed
out first, and then later on the side-buds forming the whorl
Should one of these remain uninjured, it takes over the function
of the leading-shoot. But in doing so, it not infrequently happens
that a shoot thus damaged makes a downward bend before com-
mencing its upward growth ; it recovers itself when the injury
inflicted has only been moderate, though even then the bend at
the damaged place is still recognisable many years afterw
and sometimes even when the tree approaches maturity.
In June the caterpillar enters the pupal stage of metam
phosis at the base of the hollow it has scooped out inside t
shoot.
Where this insect occurs in any large numbers, the young
Pines are apt to be attacked every year, when they of course
become sickly in growth and crippled in development, so that the
total damage done may be somewhat considerable.
The only means of preventing its attacks is to break off all the
shoots attacked, which are easily recognisable, during May and
till the middle of June, so as thus to destroy both caterpillars
and chrysalides ; but in respect to the latter, care must be tak
