DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 181
to look for them below the place at which the twig breaks, as
they often lie somewhat lower down than that.
84. The Pine-bud Tortrix or Bud-lwlloiver, Tortrix (Eetinia)
turionana.
The Pine-bud Tortrix is very much like the Pine-shoot Tortrix,
but somewhat smaller. The upper wings are a mixture of bluish-
grey and ruddy-brown, the former colour being shot through the
latter in the shape of patches and bands, whilst the fringes round
the edge are of a dark bluish-grey ; the hind wings are grey, with
greyish-white fringed edges. The lower side of the upper wings is
of a blackish-grey colour, with patches of red towards the tip, and
of greyish- white towards the upper edge ; that of the lower wings
is greyish-white, but somewhat darker towards the upper edge.
The caterpillar is about 0'4 inches long, and both caterpillar
and chrysalis strongly resemble those of Tortrix luoliana. The
attacks of this insect are also practically confined to young Scots
Pine woods of from 6 to 15 years of age. The moths swarm about
the end of May, and deposit their ova singly on the terminal buds
of the young shoots, into which the young caterpillars bore their
way when they issue from the shell ; during the autumn and
the following spring they hollow it out, so that it either dies, or
can only develop very slightly before dying. About the end of
April the caterpillar enters into the pupal state of rest within
the hollowed-out bud, which it fills with the fine threads of
its cocoon.
This insect seldom occurs in such large numbers as the Pine-
shoot Tortrix ; and as it does not often happen that all the side-
buds forming the whorl are injured, one of these generally assumes
the role of leading-shoot, thus materially minimising the actual
damage done.
When the occurrence of damage is at all frequent, or in any
way considerable, annihilative measures should be adopted. The
only good remedies are a careful revision of the thickets during
April and May, like that adopted simultaneously or a little later
in the case of the Pine-shoot Tortrix, and the breaking off of buds
that are seen to be infested with the worm.
