182 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
85. The Pine Redn-gall Tortrix, Tortrix (Retinia) resinella.
The wings of this moth have a span of only about 0*64 inches.
Head, body, and front wings are brownish-black or slate-coloured
with a copperish sheen. The upper wings have silvery-grey
transverse stripes, with a blackish feathery fringe, and the lower
wings are of a dark brownish-grey with soft light-grey edging,
whilst in both the under side is of a dark brownish-grey colour.
The caterpillar is about 0'4 inches long, and of a yellowish-
brown colour. The chrysalis is 0*32 inches long, and dark in
colour, almost black.
The life-history of this insect is remarkable, being distinguished on
account of its biennial generation, which is seldom among Lepidoptera.
The moths swarm in May, the female depositing her ova singly
beneath the whorl-buds of young Pines, principally on the side
branches. When the young caterpillar comes out of the egg a
few weeks afterwards, it bores its way through the rind into the
soft shoot, and the resin which exudes from the wound thus made
forms a small soft gall about the size of a pea during the first
year; this serves the tiny, worm-like caterpillar as a place of
residence when hibernating during the following winter. In the
second year, on account of the continuation of the feeding of the
caterpillar, this gall increases to about the size of a cherry, and is
formed of thick walls of resin, but exhibits internally a distinct
partition formed by the gall of the former year. The shoot its
is hollowed out to the very pith, and is enclosed within the resii
gall. In April of the second year the caterpillar enters into tl
pupal state within the gall, and in the following month the mol
emerges from the chrysalis, coming head first out of the gall wh<
ready for swarming.
The damage done by this insect is on the whole not vei
considerable, for, as above remarked, the side-shoots are principal]
attacked, and the leading-shoots only exceptionally, whilst th<
do not always perish in consequence. But when the insects
allowed to increase to any great extent, or when the young we
are growing on soils of only inferior quality, the damage done
the crops may frequently be quite considerable enough to mal
remedial measures advisable, and these can best take place
breaking off or crushing the galls of resin during the wint(
whilst the caterpillar is reposing within them.
