DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 183
86. The Sprite-shoot Tortrix or Shoot-twister, Tortrix (GrapJiolitha)
pactolana.
This is a small moth, having olive-brown upper wings with
white markings, and dark-grey hind wings with a light-coloured
edge. The caterpillar is of a pale-reddish colour, with a light-
brown head.
The moths swarm about the end of May or the beginning of
June, the female laying her eggs in little clusters on the whorl-
shoots of young Spruce about 10 to 25 years of age. After about
14 days the caterpillars make their appearance, and bore through
the soft rind into the cambial layer, in which they form a broad,
irregular gallery ; within this they shelter themselves against the
resinous outflow by means of spinning a cocoon-like tube.
Towards the end of April or the beginning of May, they enter
into the pupal state of rest under the bark.
The presence of this insect is always betrayed by the excrement,
which is visible mixed up with the resinous exudation from the
wound made by the caterpillar. When several caterpillars are
feeding about the same locality, all the portion of the plant lying
above the part attacked usually dies off, so that when attacks
take place from a large number of caterpillars, the damage
inflicted can be by no means inconsiderable.
The only method of preventing numerical increase of this little
enemy is to cut out and burn the young Spruce infested, a
measure which is rendered all the easier by the fact that it is
principally the plants near the edges of the thickets that are
largely attacked. Altum also recommends the smearing of
patent viscous tar over the places attacked, in order to prevent
the moths from making their exit from the pupal chamber.
The curious observation recorded by Professor R Hartig may
be noted here, that the fungus Nectria curcubitula, which occasions
a cankerous disease of the bark on Spruce growth of 5 to 15 feet
in height, frequently effects its entrance by means of the places
where the bark has been injured by this caterpillar.
The dark Spruce-shoot Tortrix, GrapJiolitha duplicana, is in
colour, life-history, and sylvicultural importance very much like
G. pactolana ; but it makes its appearance about four weeks later,
and is of less frequent occurrence.
