184 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
E. LEAF-MOTHS (Tineidw).
87. Tlie Larch Mining-moth, Tinea (Coleophora) laricella.
This very small, greyish-black moth swarms about the end of
May or the beginning of June, the female laying her eggs singly
on the needles of Larches from about the pole-forest stage of
growth onwards, whilst saplings and plants of younger growth are
only exceptionally attacked after the insect has increased greatly
in numbers.
When the tiny caterpillar makes its appearance after being
about 3 to 4 weeks in the ovum, it bores its way into the needle,
eats out the contents of the spine, makes use of the empty shell as
a protective covering, and then hibernates in this little, yellowish-
brown sack, which is firmly attached to the twig. In the
following spring it resumes feeding on the soft fresh needles, but
still drags its original sack about with it, and finally enters the
chrysalid stage in this. The new flush of foliage attacked be-
comes yellow and withered at once, and the injuries inflicted often
assume such dimensions, especially on young Larch trees near the
edges of the compartment, that hardly a sound tuft can be seen,
the foliage looking as if it had been nipped and damaged by late
frost. They gradually, however, recover, as new tufts of needles
are formed in the centre of the damaged rosettes, and numerous
short shoots develop, which assume the functions of the original
long shoots that have been destroyed.
These injuries are often inflicted year after year on young
Larch trees growing near the edge of compartments, and of course
then do a great deal of damage, not only retarding them
materially in their development, but also killing them off finally.
Borggreve considers this mining-moth one of the chief primary
causes of the cankerous disease so frequently noticeable on young
Larch stems. 1
Annihilative measures can hardly be applied against this tiny
little insect. Large numbers of the caterpillars are devoured by
tomtits, and destroyed by Ickneumonidce, whilst heavy showers of
1 The generally accepted opinion among sylviculturists throughout Germany is
distinctly that the primary cause of the Larch canker is the fungus Peziza Will-
kommii, R. Hrtg. , although of course there are several predisposing iniluencos. Careful
selection of soils and situation suitable to the Larch, and the formation of mixed
rather than of pure crops, are the sylvicultural means of decreasing the dangers with
which this tree is threatened in Britain. Trans.
