DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 185
rain during the time of swarming often kill off a good many of
the little moths.
The Larch-bark Tortrix, Grapholitha Zebeana, may also be
mentioned. The little caterpillars live in the cambium and in
the outer layer of the sapwood of small stems and branches of
young Larch, on the bark of which they form conspicuous blisters
and excrescences.
III. OTHER INJURIOUS INSECTS.
A. SAW-FLIES (Tenthredinidw).
88. The Pine Saw-fly, Tenthredo (Lophyrus) pini.
(Vide Plate IV. fig. 26.)
The wings of the female fly have a span of 0'64 to 0*72 inches.
Its feelers are short and delicately toothed ; its head is black in
colour, whilst the body is yellowish with black patches on the back,
and with three black rings or sections on the abdomen. The male
insect is essentially smaller, but has beautifully double-feathered
antennae, and is of a darker colour generally, with yellowish legs.
The tailed-caterpillars, which have 22' legs, are of a dirty
yellowish-green colour with a brown head, and black markings
over the abdominal feet ; when touched, they suddenly rear or
raise their heads like a sphynx, or in a cobra-like manner.
In the chrysalis all the parts of the fully-developed saw-fly
are already recognisable. It passes the pupal state in a leathern
cocoon, mostly of a dark-brown colour, formed in the fissures of
the bark, on the needles of the tree, or on the ground under moss.
When effecting its exit from the cocoon as imago, this saw-fly
makes a characteristic circular section.
The Pine saw-fly has a double generation. During the latter
part of April and the beginning of May the first swarming takes
place, when the female lays 120 or more eggs on the edges of the
spines, which it wounds for the purpose with a saw-like ovi-
depositor, whence it derives its English name. From 10 to 20
eggs are deposited inside each needle, and then the wound is closed
up with a kind of frothy slime.
The larvae or caterpillars make their appearance in May and
June, and hang in clusters on the whorls of young Scots Pine,
especially of those near the edge of compartments, or on such
