186 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
as are badly grown and somewhat sickly from being suppressed
or dominated, and thus cut off from normal supplies of light and
air requisite for the due satisfaction of their requirements for
healthy development. So long as they are still small, the cater-
pillars generally feed in twos on each spine, and leave the midrib
standing ; but when they are stronger and nearer the attainment of
their full growth, they devour the whole needle, just leaving a
little bit of stump, whilst the young spines remain untouched.
During the month of July they enter into the pupal state of
rest, the cocoons being formed between the scales of the bark and
on the branches of the foliage. In about 2 or 3 weeks the fully-
developed saw-fly makes its appearance and swarms, when repro-
duction is accomplished, and the second ovi-deposition takes
place.
The caterpillars of this second generation come out of the shell
during August, and often continue feeding until well into autumn,
when they descend from the stems, form their cocoons under the
moss covering the soil, and hibernate within these as larvae, for
the metamorphosis into chrysalides only takes place during the
following spring.
The above-sketched normal development is not always carried
out in full regularity or entirety, for it sometimes happens that
single broods, or even whole generations, remain for a whole year,
or even for two years, in the cocoon before at length developing
into the imago or perfect insect.
The Pine Saw-fly, which sometimes occurs in very large num-
bers, decidedly belongs to the more injurious class of forest
insects. Although, as above remarked, it in the first instance
attacks crops of sickly growth and backward development, yet,
when increasing rapidly in numbers, it also extends its ravages to
healthy crops of normal growth ; by interfering then with their
development, it very soon brings them into an unhealthy con-
dition, and thus directly paves the way for other noxious insects
finding in them only too favourable a breeding-place. The
immediate damage which the saw-flies themselves commit is
checked or minimised, owing to the fact that the shoots of the
last year usually remain intact, so that the formation of buds for
the next year is not rendered impossible.
Numerous animals render valuable assistance towards the
annihilation of the Pine Saw-fly, above all, the insectivorous
