DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 187
birds; squirrels and mice devour the contents of the cocoons,
whilst swine eat the caterpillars, but do not touch the cocoons.
Ichneumon-flies, predatory flies (Asilidss) and beetles (Caralidaz),
considerably diminish the number of the caterpillars, which are
also particularly sensitive to frost and cold, damp, unseasonable
weather, and consequently often die off in large numbers during
autumn.
The annihilative or exterminative remedies, that have from
time to time been found necessary, include the collection of the
caterpillars when they are crowded together in clusters, although
it is by no means always easy to detect their dirty yellowish-
green colour against the foliage and twigs. They may either be
crushed by pulling the gloved hand firmly along the twigs in the
direction of the leading shoots, so as not to injure the foliage, or
may be shaken down from the crown when the poles have out-
grown the young thicket stage : for crushing the clusters of
caterpillars on trees from which they cannot be easily dislodged,
nippers have been specially constructed with broad wooden tongues.
The collection of the cocoons lying on the ground below moss
is hardly practicable, as they are so small as to be very easily
overlooked.
The herding of swine in the woods can only be of utility, so
far as this insect is concerned, during the short time between the
descent of the caterpillar from the stems and the formation of its
cocoon-like winter-quarters in autumn, for, as has already been
remarked, the pigs will not eat the cocoons.
Although it will only seldom be of actual occurrence, yet
should there be any necessity for felling a crop of young Pine,
that may have been totally defoliated by the caterpillars of this
insect, a complete and deep overturn of the surface-soil will be
advisable, in order to ensure the destruction of the caterpillars
and chrysalides lying on and in the ground.
But in most cases direct and special measures for the exter-
mination of this saw-fly will seldom be within the limits of
practical adoption.
89. Cocoon Saw-flies or Foliage-wasps, Lydte.
The Cocoon Saw-flies are particularly distinguished from the
ordinary saw-flies of the genus Lophyrus, by the fact that the
