188 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
larvae or caterpillars, which have only three pairs of thoracic
legs, and one pair of feet on the last section of the abdomen for
purposes of propulsion, live in a cocoon which moves forward
with them along the twig ; this cocoon is partly transparent, but
most of it is so obscured by pieces of needles, and especially by
excrement, that it has been termed the " dung-bag." As these
saw-flies only seldom occur in large swarms, and are not under
ordinary circumstances particularly injurious in coniferous wood-
lands, it will only be necessary to mention the following principal
species briefly :
The Yellow Cocoon Saw-fly, Tenthredo (Lyda) campestris, whose
tiny larvae or caterpillars live singly on the young shoots of 3 to
6-year-old Scots and Weymouth Pines, and are covered with a
thick dung-bag. The chief exterminative remedy applied, when
young plantations or transplants in nurseries appear to be
attacked, is pulling the shoots firmly through the gloved hand, so
as to crush the larvae. Young Weymouth Pine transplants are
apt to suffer a good deal from them, but the presence of the
caterpillar is easily noticeable.
The Large or Variegated Cocoon Saw-fly, Tenthredo (Lt/dct)
pratensis, whose larvae live singly in sacks that are usually less
defiled with excrement than in the other species. It is more
frequently to be found on 15 to 40-year-old pole- forests of Pine
than on younger growth, so that practical remedies by crushing
the sacks containing the small caterpillars are hardly applicable.
The Red-headed Cocoon Saw-fly, Tenthredo (Lyda) erythocephalciy
lives in colonies of 3 or 4 in sacks plastered over inside with bits
of needles and excrement. It occurs principally on young Scots
and Weymouth Pines, and as it makes its appearance early in
May, its attacks are confined to the older foliage.
The Spnwe Cocoon Saw-fly, Tenthredo (Lyda) hypotrophica, has
now and again occurred in Spruce pole-forests in such large numbers
as to have cleared them of all the older needles, and in some cases
even to have totally denuded them of foliage. Against this species
also there is no direct practical annihilative measure applicable.
