DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 189
B. WOOD-WASPS (Siricidtz or Uroceridte).
90. Wood-wasps, Siricidte.
The wood- wasps belong to the class of technically injurious
insects, as their large larvae often render timber unfit for many
technical purposes by boring deeply into the wood. They only
attack coniferous timber.
By means of a long ovi-depositor the female wasp lays her
eggs singly in the wood of the stem, principally selecting trees
that have become sickly in growth in consequence of overtapping
for resin, stripping of the bark by red-deer, injury by lightning,
or other external injuries, whilst decidedly avoiding rotten wood.
The larva bores first of all in the softer sapwood, but gradually,
with growing strength, works deeper into the stem, and in the
spring following the second winter again bores its way towards
the surface of the trunk for the purpose of forming a pupal
chamber in the sapwood. About the middle of summer the
fully-developed wasp bores a round hole straight through to the
surface, and issues for the purpose of swarming and reproduction.
The galleries bored in the wood by the white, cylindrical, thick
larvae, which have a short terminal borer pointing upwards, are
also circular.
Their generation is always biennial at least, and sometimes
longer, for occasionally the wasps make their appearance from
beams and scantlings that have been prepared and worked up for
some length of time.
The three chief species are :
The Pine Wood-wasp, Sirex juvencus, which occurs almost
entirely in Pine timber. The female has a steel-blue body, whilst
the male is usually much smaller in size, and of a yellowish-
red colour from the third to the seventh sections of the abdomen.
The Giant or Yellow Spruce Wood-wasp, Sirex gigas ( Vide Plate
IY. fig. 22), which inhabits Spruce and Silver Fir. It is of a
blackish colour, with a yellow patch behind the eyes. In the
female the two first and the three last sections of the abdomen
are yellow, whilst in the male all the rings are reddish-yellow,
with the exception of the first and the last, which are black.
The Black Spruce Wood-wasp, Sirex spectrum, also inhabiting
Spruce and Silver Fir, and of a bluish-black colour, with yellow-
