190 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
ish longitudinal lines along the sides of the front rings of the
thorax, and a yellowish dot on each side of the back of the head,
is a species of less frequent occurrence.
The only preventive or annihilative measure of any practical
use against wood-wasps is to cut out without delay any sickly or
injured stems, and thus keep the woods as clean as possible by
thinning and proper supervision.
C. CRICKETS (Gryllidse).
91. The Mole-cricket, Gryllus gryllotalpa (Gryllotalpa vulgaris).
(Vide Plate IV. fig. 24)
This well-known insect, easily distinguishable through its
strongly developed claw-like legs, formed like a mole's for digging,
belongs to the order of Orthoptera, and has only an imperfect
metamorphosis.
The wingless larva already resembles the fully developed
insect, whilst this is still more the case with regard to the
chrysalis, which only differs from the imago by having merely
rudimentary in place of completely developed wings, and crawls
about and feeds like both larva and imago.
The pairing-time is in June, when both sexes entice the other
by means of a chirping underground. After impregnation the
female deposits her ova, up to the number of about 200, and
in size about as large as a grain of hempseed, inside a nest
formed by a hollow clump of earth about the size of a fist,
cemented with a kind of slime, and lying about 3 to 4 inches
below the surface of the soil.
After about 2 or 3 weeks the larvae make their appearance ill
July, being at first of a whitish colour, but becoming darker later
on, and soon wander throughout the soil in search of food. After
hibernating under the surface of the soil, and making several
changes of skin, they develop into imagines during the following
spring. It is well worthy of note that the female cricket watches
carefully over the opening of the nest containing her young, but
at the same time also actually devours a large number of her
progeny.
The food of the mole-cricket is for the most part animal, an<
in this way it may to a certain extent be useful. But in its
