192 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
attacked at all, it occurs to a far greater extent in avenues arid
clumps of ornamental trees in parks and gardens, than in the
close canopy of woodlands. But at the same time they do not
escape injury entirely.
The broad-leaved species of forest trees that are most frequently
attacked, or rather that are least exempt from danger, are the
Elm, Ash, Birch, and in a less degree the Oak and Beech ; it is
also quite worthy of note that on the broad-leaved trees most
kinds of beetles are polyphagous, now attacking this, now the
other species. Here too, however, as among conifers, it is usually
the older stems of sickly growth that are most apt to be attacked.
It is only young growth like seedlings, saplings, or poles and
older stems' that have been badly damaged, which are apt to
succumb soon to the injuries received ; for in tree-forest the
boring of the larvae may often be carried on for years before the
trees gradually show signs of dying off. Thanks to their strong
recuperative power, broad-leaved species of trees are altogether
less sensitive than conifers to wounds and injuries inflicted,
whilst at the same time a number of the bark-beetles that infest
the former class of trees live more in the wood than in the
cambium, and consequently threaten in a much less degree the
vital energy of the tree.
The following include the more injurious species which are of
somewhat frequent occurrence :
The Oak-beetle, Bostrichus (Xyleborus) dispar. This insect chiefly
attacks old Oak and Beech, that have been somewhat damaged or
interfered with in one way or another, and also bores into their
stools. Sturdy Oak saplings and transplants are often quickly
killed off in large numbers by reason of the galleries * formed by
the larvae within the slender stems. The cutting back of such
young growth, and the burning of the stems infested, are the
only way of annihilating this insect enemy.
The variegated Ash-beetle, Hylcsinus fraxini, and the black Ash-
beetle, Hylesinus crcnatus, both live principally on the Ash. The
main gallery of the former consists of two horizontal arms or
branches, but that of the latter has only one. Here and there
these beetles occasion no inconsiderable amount of damage, as
poles and young stems of backward growth are often killed off
1 They somewhat resemble the short galleries formed by Bostriclius (Xyl
lineatus in Spruce, but are very considerably longer (vide par. 71). Trans.
