DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 193
quickly owing to the main and larval galleries being bored in
large numbers throughout the cambium.
The large Elm-beetle, Scolytus destructor (Eccoptog aster Geoffroyi\
and the small Elm-leetle, Scolytus (Eccoptogaster) multistriatus, both
principally to be found infesting the Elm, do a good deal of
damage to the trees they attack, owing to the larval galleries
permeating the cambium, and only slightly entering the sapwood.
Avenue trees seem especially liable to attacks from this insect.
The main galleries, which are vertical, bite somewhat deeper into
the sapwood.
93. Cockchafers (Melolonthidw).
Although the fully developed chafers feed almost entirely on
the foliage of the broad-leaved species of trees, yet it is especially
during their larval or grub stage that these insects do by far the
most injury ; and as they are usually more injurious to young coni-
ferous seedlings and plants than to broad-leaved growth, they have
already been dealt with amongst the insects injurious to conifers
(vide par. 78). They are only mentioned here in passing, and for
jthe sake of completeness in detailing the insects that actually
1 damage plants or trees of broad-leaved species.
94. Long-horned or Oervicorn Beetles (Cerambycidtz).
The very numerous class of long-horned beetles is distinguished
'in some instances by their size, or by their elongated powerful
i bodies and long legs, or by the fact that in many species the
i feelers are often several times the length of the body.
The larvae are soft, whitish or whitish-yellow, with a large head
j and strong horny upper jaws; they are mostly feetless, being
I provided with small warty projections only in place of legs, and
! live in the wood, whereas the beetles feed innocuously on leaves
and flowers.
The beetles swarm in summer, and lay their eggs on the bark,
; or in some instances in it by means of an ovi-depositor. When
(the larvae make their appearance they first of all feed superficially,
ibut bore deeper into the wood later on. The galleries formed
!are, as might be expected from the shape of the larvae, broad and
shallow, but gradually increase in size with the growth of the
larvae, and are full of the mealy dust formed by the latter.
N
