194 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The generation of the cervicorn beetles varies, being simple or
annual in many species, biennial with most of them, and mult-
annual in some cases. The imago bores its way out to the
surface by an oblique passage having an elliptical exit-hole.
The larvae of the cervicorn beetles live chiefly in the wood of
broad-leaved species of trees, and, as sickly or unsound stems are
for the most part attacked, the actual damage they do is on that
account comparatively slight ; but at the same time they are not
infrequently found on sound stems, which become riddled with
holes by the larvae, and are thus rendered of less technical
value than they would otherwise possess.
Annihilative or exterminative measures are hardly ever neces-
sary on any extensive scale, nor could they easily find practical
application. The following comprise the chief species :
The large Oak Cervicorn, Cerambyx heros (ITammaticherus
This beetle is about 1/6 to 2 inches in length. The yellowist
white larva, extending to about 2 '8 inches when full grown, is
distinguished by having large elliptical horny plates on the upper
portion of the different segments. It inhabits old Oaks, occur-
ring frequently in the sound wood, which is of course greatly
damaged for technical purposes by the larval borings ; these are
about as thick as a finger. Its generation is biennial.
The large Poplar Cervicorn, Cerambyx (Saperdas) carcharias
(vide Plate I. fig. 11). This is a yellowish-brown beetle, with
black-spotted thorax and elytra. The round, footless, yellowish-
white larva attains a length of 1/4 inches ; it has bro)
mandibles and scales from the third to the tenth segment,
generation is biennial, and as larva it feeds chiefly in Poplars
Willows up to about their 20th year.
The Aspen Cervicorn, Cerambyx (Saperda) populnca.
beetle is only 04 to 0'52 inches in length, and black in colour, wit
yellow hairs ; the feelers are alternately ringed with blue and
black. The yellow larva, which lives chiefly in Aspen seedlings
or stoles of from 2 to 6 years of age, at first feeds in the outer
layers of sapwood, but during the second year bores its way into the
pith, and produces knots and swellings that are often conspicuous
on the slender stems.
Its generation is also biennial. In order to exterminate
insect, damaged stems should be cut back and burned, and
beetles should be collected when swarming during June.
