DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 195
The Spruce Cervicorn, Callidium luridum. This is in reality a
much more injurious species of cervicorn than any of the above-
mentioned beetles, but it chiefly attacks conifers (the Spruce in
particular) that are in a sickly or already damaged condition.
The larvae feed first of all in the cambial layer, and thus kill the
stem before they bore deep into the wood. Next to Pissodes
hercynise this was the species of beetle most numerous in the
damaged Spruce forests of Bavaria in 1890, after the Spruce
moth (Liparis monacha) had begun its ravages (vide foot-note on
page 88). It is mentioned here, as no special paragraph was con-
sidered necessary for coniferous cervicorns. Immediate felling
and removal of stems attacked should take place so soon as the
insects are recognised by the outpouring of resin, and the gradual
withering of the crown of foliage. Its generation is biennial.
95. Weevils, or Rostral or Proboscid Beetles (Curculionidte).
Of this rather numerous family a comparatively small number
of very injurious species attack conifers (vide pars. 75 to 77), but
the great majority of weevils feed on plants of broad-leaved
foliage, and not a few of them on our forest trees.
In some cases damage is done by the larvse, which live in the
interior of the plants and destroy their tissue, whilst in others
the main injuries are inflicted by the beetles devouring buds,
flowers, and foliage ; but concerning their full life-history our
knowledge is by no means yet complete.
The characteristic feature of the Curculionidte is the elongation
or extension of the head to form a rostrum or proboscis, by
means of which the majority of the species are easily recognisable.
The so-called green and grey rostral beetles are especially
destructive in young plantations and nurseries, where they often
commit considerable havoc. These species are characterised and
distinguishable by a kind of greenish or greyish metallic lustre,
and among them the following are of most frequent occurrence :
1. Having a Greenish Metallic Sheen.
The Silvern-green Rostral Beetle, Curculio (Phyllolius) argentatus.
This beetle gnaws and destroys the buds on Beeches, Birches,
and Oaks. It is blackish in colour, with emerald or bluish-green
lustrous scales ; the elytra have whitish hairs, and the feelers and
legs are brownish-yellow. Only 0*2 to 0*24 inches in length.
