196 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The Green-necked Rostral Beetle, Curculio (Phyllobius} viridicollis.
This tiny beetle is only 012 to 0*2 inches in length, and of a
smooth, glossy, black colour, whilst the sides of the neck-plate
and the breast have green scales ; the antennae and legs are
brownish-yellow. It chiefly devours the buds of young Oak and
Beech, but is also found on Aspen and Sallow.
The Glittering Rostral Beetle, Curculio (Polydrosus) micans.
This beetle is 0'28 to 0'32 inches in length, and of a blackish
ground-colour, covered with greenish, golden-bronze or copperish
lustrous scales on the elytra, and whitish scales on the breast.
It gnaws the buds of Beeches, Hazels, and Oaks principally, but
also of other broad-leaved trees and shrubs, attacking them at the
side first and hollowing them out ; after the leaves have fully
flushed, it feeds on the foliage. Its attacks can easily be pre-
vented by ringing the stems with patent tar in April.
2. Having a Greyish Metallic Sheen.
The Hazel-nut Rostral Beetle, Curculio (Strophosomus) coryli.
This beetle is 0*16 to 0*24 inches in length. It is almost spherical
in shape, and brownish-grey in colour. The basal junction of the
elytra is black, without hairs or scales ; the feelers and the legs
are rusty red.
It is principally to be found on Hazel, Oak, Beech, and Birch,
whose buds it hollows out, and then proceeds to gnaw the young
shoots. 1 Preventive or exterminative measures against these
insect enemies, which often occur in large numbers, are only
applicable to a limited extent, as, for example, the collecting of
the beetles in nurseries, although this is made troublesome by their
habit of dropping to the ground whenever the plants they are
on are touched or shaken in any way. Altum points out the
advantage to be thus gained by ringing the stems with patent
as this will effectually prevent the fallen beetles from re-ascendi
them.
Among the other rostral beetles which make themselves con-
spicuous by their frequent occurrence may be mentioned the black
Beech hopping -beetle, Orchestes fagi, a tiny weevil only 010 to 012
inches in length, and of a black colour, with grey hairs and a
rostrum bent back under it ; its feelers and legs are of a light
1 The unwinged imagines also feed on the edges of needles and on the bark of
young Pine and Spruce, especially of 2 year-old seedlings, in spring, and have
recently done very considerable damage in many localities. (Hess, op. tit., vol. i.
p. 243.) Trans.
the
:":
