DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 197
brown. The female lays its eggs singly under the cutiqle near
the midrib on the lower side on Beech leaves when they flush
towards the end of April or the beginning of May ; and when the
larvae appear 2 to 3 weeks later, they mine sidewards, or towards
the apex of the leaf in the parenchymous layer, the galleries
increasing in breadth very much as they approach the edge. The
effect thus produced on the damaged beech-leaves makes them
look as if they had been nipped by late frost, as, though the
injured parts exhibit whitish markings at first, they soon oxidise
to a brown colour. The beetles which make their appearance in
June feed on the foliage and the nut-cupules until they descend
to hibernate under the dead foliage on the ground.
This insect often occurs in millions in Beech woods, and must,
to a certain extent, damage the assimilative power and the
increment of trees which are infested by them in large numbers,
as often happens on parent standards and near the edges of com-
partments. There is no practical preventive or annihilative
measure suitable for adoption against this insect, whose attacks
are, however, least extensive in mixed woods, where insectivorous
birds are always most plentiful.
96. The Saw-horn Beetles (Buprestidse).
These are mostly beetles of a bright colour having a metallic
lustre, and with compressed bodies and weakly developed legs ;
they are only injurious to woodlands during their larval stage.
The larvae are white, soft, feetless, and elongated, somewhat
resembling the cervicorn larvae, but distinguishable from these by
reason of the strongly developed first abdominal ring or section,
and mostly also by two horny tips on the tail that point outwards
or behind. They form irregular, sinuous galleries between the
wood and the bark, which gradually become broader as the larva
grows larger, and which are tightly packed with the bore-dust.
The pupal chamber is hollowed out in the sapwood at the end
of the larval gallery. Two years after entering the stem, the
beetle emerges through a half-moon-like hole flattened on one
side.
Though, on the whole, not of great Sylvicultural importance, yet
a few species often do very considerable damage here and there.
The following are the species of most importance :
