198 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
Tlw Green Beech Saw-horn Beetle, Buprestis (Agrilus) viridis
(vide Plate I. fig. 7). This beetle is about 0'24 inches in length,
and for the most part of a lustrous blue or green colour. It
swarms in June and July, when the female deposits her ova on
the bark of young Beech or Oak, on the cambial layer of which
the larva feed, thereby causing a sickly condition of growth, or
even the death of the sapling if badly attacked. Sturdy Beech
transplants are specially liable to be attacked over considerable
areas in this manner, but in these cases the observation has
always been made that the plants in the first instance attacked
have usually been in a sickly condition, in consequence of not
having had time to establish themselves thoroughly.
Its generation is biennial. The further propagation and
increase in the number of this insect can be hindered by pulling
up and burning the plants that are attacked ; but the damage done
is not usually great.
The Golden-furrowed Oak Saw-horn Beetle, Buprestis (Chryso-
bothris) affinis. This is a copper-brown or dark grey beetle, with
metallic lustre, and with two golden furrows on each of the
elytra. The larvae live chiefly in sturdy Oak transplants, in
which they bore irregular, sinuous, shallow galleries between the
cambium and the sap wood, and often injure or even kill off
the saplings in large numbers. Here again the cutting back of
the plants that show sickly growth, in consequence of being
attacked, is the only way in which the increase of the insects can
be prevented, or the damage done in any way repaired.
The thin Oak Saw-horn Beetle, Buprestis (Agrilus) tenuis. This
beetle is '28 to '3 2 inches long, and of a dull green colour passing
into olive or bronze. In its life-history, and as regards the
damage it does, to Oak and Beech principally, it closely resembles
Agrilus viridis. Another species, Agrilus letuleti, has also been
found committing damage on Birch here and there.
97. Leaf -beetles (Chrysowielidfe).
These beetles are of short, squat, compressed, strongly-arched
structure, and are usually of small size, with short feelers and
powerful legs partly adapted for springing ; they are frequently
variegated in colour, and have often a metallic lustre.
Though principally living on broad-leaved kinds of plants, th<
