DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 199
I do, on the whole, comparatively little injury to species of sylvi-
cultural importance. Both the larvse and the beetles feed 011
foliage, gnawing away the parenchym between the ribs and the
veins, and leaving only the skeletons of the leaves, so that their
attacks are very easily distinguished from those inflicted by other
kinds of insects.
As it is principally the less important kinds of forest trees
that suffer most from these particular enemies, trees like Aspen
and Saugh, which are themselves not infrequently classifiable as
noxious weeds, the injuries they inflict on woodlands are com-
paratively slight on the whole, and any real damage that is done
is usually confined to Alders and Willows. They are insects with
simple annual generation.
The following four species comprise those of chief sylvicul-
tural importance :
The Blue Alder Leaf-beetle, Chrysomela (Agalastica) alni. This
is a small violet or steel-blue beetle, 0*24 to 0'28 inches long, with
black feelers, breast, and legs. The larva is 0'4 inches long,
6-footed, of a blackish colour, with somewhat of a greenish lustre,
rather hairy, and with transverse marks across the rings on the
back.
Whilst swarming during May and June as beetles, and again
as larvse appearing in June, this insect feeds on the leaves of the
Alder, and is at times very troublesome in nursery-beds. By
collecting the beetles after August, or during the time of swar-
ming in spring, when it is easier, their numerical increase may be
held greatly in check.
The Red Poplar Leaf-beetle, Chrysomela (Lino) populi (vide
Plate I. fig. 9). The beetle is 0'4 to 0'48 inches in length ; the
body is blackish-blue in colour, and the elytra brick-red, with
black points at their extremities ; the feelers are short, com-
pressed, and thicken considerably towards their ends. The
6-footed larvse are of a dirty white, with many black dots, and
two white excrescences on the sides of the second and third rings.
Both as beetle and larva, they principally feed on Poplars and
Aspen, but also on the foliage of Willows, when they can be
somewhat destructive, as they may often seriously retard the
development of the withes in the willow-coppices. 1 The beetles
1 Hags of Salix purpurea and S. pentandra, together with their varieties, suffer
most from leaf-beetles. Trans.
