202 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
barrel-shaped cocoon inside a nest or pupal community spun by
mutual labour, and attaining about the size of a child's head.
The moths swarm in August, and are, like other moths, usually
most active towards evening. After impregnation, the female
deposits about 150 to 200 ova in rows along the deep fissures in the
bark of old Oak trees, and covers them up with a little grey
wool-like coating as a protection against the wintry cold.
In the following May the young caterpillars make their
appearance, and at once commence feeding in large communities.
During the day-time they generally collect closely together in a
nest in common on the stem, situated just under the junction of
one or other of the large branches, and then towards evening
setting out in close phalanx-like column to re-commence feeding.
The column is generally headed by one caterpillar, but gradu-
ally increases to the middle, and then, after decreasing, again
terminates in another single caterpillar ; in this marching order
the caterpillars range themselves closely together, and whenever
the column is broken or disturbed, they endeavour to re-form in
proper order again as soon as possible ; their track or marching-
route is marked by gossamer threads. After they have finished
feeding, they usually march back to the same nest, which is
gradually increased in dimensions and woven together more closely
as the caterpillars grow larger, so that at last it attains the size of
an infant's head, and can plainly be seen from a distance. Such
nests in common usually contain a good deal of larval excrement.
When the tree they happen to be on has been denuded of foliage,
the caterpillars migrate to another, still moving always in closed
column.
About the beginning of July the pupal state of rest is entered
into by the colony, either in the nest in common which they
happen to be occupying, or in a new one specially woven for the
occasion either at the foot of the bole or else at some height up
the stem, but always on the sheltered side of the tree ; inside this
nest in common each caterpillar forms, as already stated, its
individual cocoon, from which the complete moth emerges in
August.
It is only the Oak that is attacked by this insect, but as it
occurs not infrequently, the injuries inflicted can assume consider-
able proportions. Trees in the full enjoyment of light and air
are, on the whole, most exposed to attacks from the processionary
