DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 203
moth, as, for instance, standard Oaks of all descriptions, and trees
near the edges of compartments. When total denudation of the
foliage takes place repeatedly, so that not infrequently the mid-
summer flush of leaves is destroyed as well as the spring foliage,
the results are often not merely confined to temporary loss of incre-
ment, but may induce a sickly condition of growth, with " stag-
headedness," and may ultimately lead directly to the death of
the tree.
But another danger is threatened by the long, brittle hairs,
which contain some substance poisonous to both man and beast,
and produce swellings and inflammation where they happen to be
brought in contact with the skin. When old Oaks growing on
grazing land are attacked by the caterpillars, the hairs of the
latter are often swallowed by the cattle when feeding, and may
occasion them a good deal of suffering.
Protected by these long, poisonous hairs, the caterpillar has few
natural enemies beyond the Cuckoo, and a few Tachinaz and
Ichneumonidse ; but, on the other hand, the ova are well-nigh deci-
mated during the winter by tomtits, woodpeckers, &c.
The best annihilative measure that can be adopted against this
insect consists in the removal and crushing or burning of the
nests containing the caterpillars and chrysalides ; when these
latter are high up the stem, ladders will either be necessary, or
else a pole with a nob of tow dipped in petroleum, and then
lighted so as to set fire to the nest. For nests that are too high
up for this method to be successful, Altum recommends the use
of the gun with a large charge of very small shot and a small
charge of gunpowder, so as to knock the nest to pieces.
Whether the caterpillars be collected first or directly destroyed,
the greatest caution should be taken to ensure that the woodmen
should not have their health injured in any way by the poisonous
hairs. Thick gloves, and an adequate protection, as, for instance,
a damp sponge over both mouth and nostrils, are necessary ; and
if the exterminative measures can take place during wet weather,
so much the better, as the hairs are not only less brittle then, but
are also less apt to float about in the air.
In areas infested for the time being by these caterpillars, the
woods should, for obvious reasons, be closed to the collection of
berries, the cutting of grass, and the herding of cattle.
