204 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS,
100. The Hop Dog, light Tussock Moth, or Beech Spinner, Bomlyx
(Orgy ia, Dasychira) pudibunda.
(Vide Plate III. fig. 21.)
The female moth has a span of 2 to 24 inches, whilst the male,
though somewhat smaller, is easily recognisable by its yellowish-
brown feathery antenme.
The front portion of the body and the upper wings are of a
reddish-white or whitish-grey colour, with two darker transverse
bands ; the lower part of the body and the back wings are lighter
in colour, and with an indistinct transverse band, looking more like
a patch than any regular stripe.
The caterpillar, which attains a length of 1'6 inches, is of a
greenish-yellow colour at first, but afterwards turns reddish ; it is
characterised by four thick, yellowish-grey tufts of hair on the
fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh sections of the body, between
which the velvety black incisions stand out prominently, and also
by a long red or ruddy brown tuft of hair on the second last
section towards its extremity.
The dark brown to greyish-yellow hairy chrysalis passes through
the pupal state of rest in a cocoon.
This moth swarms about the end of May and the beginning of
June, when the female deposits her ova, to the number of 100 or
more, on the bark of poles or tree-stems usually only from about
3 to 10 feet above the ground ; the eggs are at first of a greyish-
green colour, but gradually darken to a brownish-grey.
About the end of June the young caterpillars make their
appearance, devour the egg-shells from which they have just
issued, and, like the Spruce-moth, cluster together for a few days
in schools or colonies before ascending to begin feeding on the
young foliage. At first they only nibble or gnaw the leaves
slightly, but later on, with growing strength, they eat large
portions of them, and often finally completely gnaw through the
leaves near the petiole, so that parts of them fall down and
may be found strewn over the ground.
In autumn, about the end of September or October, they
descend from the trees on which they have been feeding, and
form their cocoons in moss, or under dead foliage or the like,
where they hibernate as chrysalides.
