DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 205
The Hop-dog or Beech-moth is to be found now and again in
single examples on almost every kind of broad-leaved tree, but large
swarms of them occur only on the Beech. It principally attacks
the older classes of Beech crops, especially such as- grow on soil
that is somewhat inferior in quality, and it is usually only when
these have been defoliated that it migrates to the pole-forests and
the other crops of younger growth. It often occurs in enormous
numbers, and is undoubtedly, above all others, the insect that
threatens most damage to the Beech.
But the injuries inflicted are essentially diminished by the fact
that the feeding of the caterpillars principally takes place during
the later half of the summer months, after the formation of the
young buds, for the flush of leaves during the following spring, has
already taken place ; for experience has shown that, although the
generation is simple and annual, any plague of these caterpillars
seldom lasts longer than two consecutive years, so that as a rule
the damage actually done is, for the most part, confined to temporary
loss of increment, and to a prejudicial influence, both quantitatively
and qualitatively, on the mast-producing capacity of the trees.
The caterpillars have numerous enemies amongst insectivorous
birds, including crows, cuckoos, thrushes, finches, tomtits, &c.,
whilst of predatory insects, Carabidaz and Ichneumonida? decimate
them ; but it is chiefly to diseases of fungoid origin that the sudden
disappearance of enormous swarms must be ascribed. At the
same time, they are extremely sensitive to sudden changes in the
weather, although during the winter months comparatively insen-
sitive to the effects of snow and cold.
As an annihilative and exterminative remedy, experience has
shown that attempts to collect the chrysalides, or to collect or squash
the caterpillars when descending the trees for the purpose of
forming their cocoons on the ground, are, on the whole, of no great
practical use, or are, at any rate, not effective in the degree desired.
As the eggs are deposited on the smooth bark of the Beech within
a moderate height (about 10 feet) above the ground, and are com-
paratively easy to find owing to their being laid in clusters, they
can be easily collected or destroyed, or can be effectively pre-
vented from hatching, or killed off if the larvae are collected in
schools by being smeared over with oil or patent tar, as this
brings death to both ova and larvae. But as the ova are deposited
within so short a distance of the ground, the simplest and most
