206 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
practical method seems to be the formation of narrow rings of
patent tar round the stems at about 12 feet in height, as the tar will
bite on well to the smooth bark, and will prevent the great majority
of caterpillars from ever ascending to feed on the tree-foliage,
whilst it will also hinder the caterpillars, from ova deposited above
that, being able to descend when following their natural instinct
towards chrysalisation on the soil.
101. Other Spinners (Brown- Tail, Lackey, and Gipsy Moths)
Bombycidce.
Although these three species of moths are for the most part
injurious to fruit-trees, yet they often occur in great numbers on
woodland trees, more especially on Oak, and are therefore deser-
ving of some short mention here.
The Brown- Tail Moth, Bomlyx (Liparis, Porthesia) chrysorrhcea.
This is a white moth with satin-like lustre, having a span of
1*2 to 1*6 inches. The abdomen of the female is for the most part
brownish, but with a dense reddish-brown tuft of woolly growth
near the termination of the abdomen, whilst the male is of a
blackish-brown colour with ruddy-brown tail or fringe of hairs
behind. The 16-footed caterpillar is about 1*4 inches long, and
of a dark greyish-brown colour, with red stripes along the sides,
and covered with yellowish-brown hairs ; underneath it is of a
grey colour, with yellow marbling.
The moths swarm at the end of June and the beginning
July, when the female lays her 200 to 300 brownish-yellow eggs
the lower side of the leaves of many broad-leaved species of
but chiefly on Oak, and covers them up with spongy emissi(
The caterpillars make their appearance in August, and form n<
for themselves round the leaves and young shoots. In autui
with a view to the coming period of hibernation, they strength*
them, and thus form very tough nests of about the size of a fii
In the following spring they again attack the foliage, and the
about the beginning of June enter the pupal state of rest fc
about three to four weeks in a transparent greyish-brown nest.
Their generation is therefore annual.
In orchards the winter nests can easily be destroyed, but this
is not practicable when the crowns of lofty Oaks or other forest
trees are attacked.
