DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 207
The Lackey Moth, Bombyx (Gastropacha) neustria. The span of
the wings of this moth is about 1/2 to 1/6 inches. Its body and
upper wings vary from yellow to reddish-brown, with broad
transverse band having lighter edges ; the lower wings are some-
what lighter in colour, and have a faint darker band across their
middle. The slightly-haired caterpillar attains a length of 1/8
inches, is alternately striped light blue, reddish-brown, and white
like the pattern of a lackey's waistcoat ; its head is pale blue, with
two black spots.
The moths swarm in July and August towards the evening.
After impregnation the female deposits her 300 to 400 brownish -
grey ova in the shape of a close band round twigs and small
branches of fruit-trees and Oaks principally, but also on Elm,
Hornbeam, Poplars, and Willows. About the end of April or
the beginning of May the young caterpillars appear, and begin to
feed on buds and leaves, living at first in communities inside
nests until they are full-grown. They enter the chrysalid stage
about the end of June, but before doing so break up their
colonies, and betake themselves individually to pupal rest between
leaves or in the inequalities of the bark, to which they attach
themselves with a few loosely spun threads.
As the Lackey-moth attacks fruit-trees for the most part,
active measures can easily be taken to destroy the clusters
of ova and the caterpillars' nests in orchards ; but annihilative
measures are hardly applicable in the case of lofty forest trees.
The Gipsy Moth or Brown Arches, Bombyx (Liparis) dispar
(vide Plate III. fig. 19). There is, as the name implies, a great
disparity between the sizes of the male and the female moths.
The wings of the female have a span of 24 to 2 '6 inches, whilst
that of the male does not exceed 1/6 to 1/8 inches. The wings of
the female are of a brownish-white colour, with darker, zigzag
arched lines, and with brownish-grey down near the extremity,
whilst those of the male are dark greyish-brown, with similar zigzag
arched markings ; both have dark-tipped edgings, and in both
the lower pair of wings are of a paler colour with fainter markings.
The 16-footed caterpillar, which attains a length of two inches,
has a large head, is dirty grey along the back, and yellowish-grey
on the sides and under part, with small black dots on the skin,
and having a white line down the ridge of its back. On each side
of this central line it has a row of warts that are blue on the
