208 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
first five rings, and red on the other six, and from which clusters
of long dark hairs issue.
The time of swarming is about the end of July and the earlier
part of August, when the male moths are much more active than
the females. During August and September the latter deposits
her ova to a total of 300 to 400 in shallow round clusters on the
bark of smooth stems or other convenient objects mostly near the
ground, and then by dusting off the brownish-grey wool-like hairy
down from her extremity, gives them a protective covering re-
sembling a bit of thin fungus or sponge.
The caterpillars appear during the following April or May, but
remain together for about ten days in clusters or colonies, before
they ascend the stems to commence feeding on the foliage.
About the beginning of July they enter the pupal state of rest,
fastening themselves loosely by a few threads between leaves or
in the fissures of the bark ; about fourteen days later the imagines
make their appearance, to repeat the simple annual generation.
This is an extremely voracious and injurious insect in orchards,
but occasionally it also causes total defoliation of woodland trees,
chiefly of Oak, Hornbeam, Poplar, Willows, Lime, and Alder.
Sometimes, if impelled by hunger, it has likewise been known to
attack conifers, when it prefers the Scots Pine to the Spruce.
Of these three species of insects, the Gipsy-moth is of most
importance sylviculturally, for, though it is principally to be found
feeding on fruit-trees in orchards, it is in reality polyphagus on.
nearly all broad-leaved species ; but among forest trees Oaks are
on the whole most liable to its attacks in all forms of crops, from
coppice-woods to high timber forest. It may be said almost to
occur periodically in large numbers, sometimes defoliating trees
over extensive areas, and at least leading to a considerable
temporary loss of increment on the stems denuded or badly
injured.
The exterminative remedy most recommended is the destruction
of the easily noticeable clusters of eggs, and Altum suggests that
this can best be effected by daubing them over with patent tar. 1
1 In the case of the Gipsy-moth, ringing the trees with patent tar would seem the
most practical way, considering that the ova are usually deposited near the soil.
Trans.
