DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 209
B. SPAN-WORMS (Geometridw).
102. The Winter Moth or Winter Span-worm, Geometra
(Cheimatobia) brumata.
The male moth has a span of about 1 to 1/2 inches, and its front
wings are of a reddish-grey or yellowish-grey colour, with dark
wavy lines ; the hind wings are lighter, and with indefinite,
indistinct stripes. The female is about 0'32 inches in length, and
of a greyish-brown colour with white scales, long feelers and legs,
and very reduced, or in reality only rudimentary, wings; it is
therefore incapable of flight.
The 10-footed caterpillar, at first of a grey colour, but changing
after the first time of shedding the skin to a yellowish-green, with
a pale longitudinal stripe along the back, and a green head, later
on assumes a green colour with a dark mark along the back and
three light marks along each side ; when full-grown it attains a
length of T04 inches.
The chrysalis is of a light brown colour, and has no protective
cocoon.
The winter moth swarms from October till December, when
the males fly about towards the close of the day in search of the
females that run up and down the stems of the trees. After
impregnation nas taken place, the female deposits her ova on the
buds, leaf-scars, and twig-points in the crowns of the trees ; the
eggs, which are greenish at first and reddish later on, number
about 200 to 300 per individual.
The tiny caterpillars make their appearance from the ova
during the following April and May, damaging many leaf and
flowering buds by feeding on them, and then later on devouring
the foliage which they twist or roll up somewhat in the manner
so characteristic of the insects named " leaf -rollers." About the
beginning of June they spin down from the leaves on gossamer
threads to the ground, for the purpose of passing the pupal state
of rest in a smoothly-formed hole, about two inches below the
surface of the ground.
This insect is, for the most part, injurious to fruit-trees (to
Apple, Pear, and Plum trees especially), but it also occurs very
frequently on all sorts of broad-leaved species of forest growth,
and is especially to be found on Oak, Hornbeam, Lime, and Elm.
o
