210 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The Northern Winter Moth, or Northern Winter Span-worm,
Geometra (Cheimatobia) loreata, is a closely-allied species, which
is principally to be found on Beech amongst the trees of woodland
growth. 1 The caterpillar closely resembles that of the former
species, but is only about 0*64 inches in length, and can easily be
distinguished by its having a black head. In addition to
destroying the leaves and buds, it often does a very considerable
amount of damage . to young seedling growth of Beech ; but, on
the whole, this insect is principally to be found on the Birch,
though damage done by it is often credited to G. Irumata.
Preventive measures against these two species are only practi-
cally applicable in orchards. There rings of patent tar can either
be formed round the stems, or else strips of stiff paper can be
smeared with the tar and tied firmly round the stems, so as to
prevent the wingless female from crawling up into the crowns of
the trees. Delving and overturning the soil can also be carried
out in orchards, so as to destroy the chrysalides by burying them
deeper in the ground.
The large Winter Moth, or large Winter Span-worm, Geometra
(Hibernia) defoliaria? a large species of Span-worm, has a some-
what similar life-history, and inflicts similar injuries, but seldom
occurs in such large numbers as the above-named other two
species sometimes do.
C. LEAF-ROLLERS (Tortriddse).
103. The Green Oak-Tortrix or Oak Leaf -roller, Tortrix
This little moth, whose wings when extended have at most
span of only 0*88 inches, has upper wings of a beautiful brij
1 It is somewhat smaller in size, the male having a span of 1'4 inches, the
wings being whitish-grey, with a brownish-yellow lustre, and the hind wings whitish '
as in O. brumata the female has only rudimentary wings, but in this case they are |
even smaller than in the former. Trans.
2 The male has a span of 1'6 to 1*9 inches ; the upper wings are yellow, and dusted
with rusty brown, with a brown root or base, and a broad zigzag brown transverse
band ; the lower wings are bright yellow, with a sprinkling of brown, and one dark
spot. The female is wingless and very long-legged, and yellow in colour, with black
spots. The 10-legged caterpillar is 1'32 inches long, and of a reddish-brown colour, '
with a long double back-stripe, and yellow, brownish-red spotted side lines. Though
feeding principally on fruit-trees (especially on those with stony-fruit), they are also '
comparatively frequent on Oaks. (Hess, op. cit. vol. ii. 80.) Trans.
