DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 211
green, with yellowish-white fringe round the lower edges, and
light grey lower wings, with greyish-white edging.
The 16-footed caterpillar, which attains a length of about 048
inches, is of a dark yellowish-green colour, with a black head, and
minute black knob-like warts, on which there are a few fine hairs.
The chrysalis is of a blackish-brown colour, and about 0*44
inches long.
This moth swarms from about the middle till the end of June,
when the female deposits her ova singly or in small clusters on
the buds then being formed on the twigs in the crowns of Oaks.
The tiny caterpillars make their appearance during the following
spring, when they attack the buds, flowers, and foliage, and then
about the beginning of June proceed to enter the chrysalis stage
in leaves rolled together, in fissures of the bark, &c., from which
they emerge as imagines after a pupal rest of about three weeks.
Its generation is therefore simple and annual.
This insect lives exclusively on the Oak, especially on older
pole-forest and tree-forests, and occasionally occurs in vast
numbers over extensive areas, where it does no inconsiderable
amount of damage in Oak woods by destroying the foliage, and
scattering all hopes of a good mast-year. In consequence of the
ova being deposited on the buds and young twigs, the feeding of
the caterpillars always begins near the top of the leafy crown,
and gradually extends downwards, often resulting in total
denudation of the foliage, which can only be replaced when the
midsummer flush of leaves takes place.
Preventive and exterminative measures are hardly applicable.
When late frosts have nipped the young Oak foliage during
years when the caterpillars have been swarming in large numbers,
these have been known to be starved to death in consequence.
During the long period of winter many ova are also doubtless
destroyed by starlings, thrushes, sparrows, tits, &c.
D. NOTE ON SOME OTHEK LEPIDOPTERA.
Amongst the species of moths which it has not been considered necessary to
j mention in the text, there are several kinds that are of comparatively frequent
occurrence in our British woodlands. These include the following :
A. Spinners (Bombycidse).
The common Vapourer-moth, Bombyx (Orgyia) antiqua, with a span of 1 '2 inches ; the
male is of a rusty-brown colour, with two dark transverse bands and a white moon-spot
on each of the upper wings ; the female is yellowish-grey, with only white stumps as
