212 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
rudimentary wings ; the caterpillar is ashy grey, with yellowish hairs, velvety black
back, and carmine warts, with two long black tufts of hair behind its head, other two
standing out at right angles to the sides on the 5th section, and one standing upright
on the llth ring. It swarms in August and September, and lays 150 to 300 eggs on
the nest from which it has emerged. The larvae occasionally appear in autumn, but
mostly not until spring. Properly speaking, its ravages are confined to the buds,
foliage, and young fruit of fruit-trees ; but it is also found on Saugh, Mountain Ash,
Spruce, and Scots Pine. It enters the chrysalis stage in June or July, which lasts
for about six weeks.
The Satin-moth, Bombyx (Liparis, Leucoma) salicis, has a span of 2 to 2 '4 inches, the
wings being white and satin-like, and the legs ringed with black and white. The
caterpillar is 1 '8 inches long, greyish in colour, with yellowish-white spots on the
back, small red warts, and light brown hairs. The female deposits 150 to 200 ova in
June and July on the bark or leaves of Poplars and "Willows, and then covers them
up with a white membrane. The caterpillars sometimes appear in autumn, but
mostly not until the following spring, when they feed on the foliage till entering the
pupal state about the end of May. The chrysalis may be found loosely attached to
leaves or twigs.
The Gold- Tail moth, Bombyx (Liparis, Porthesia) auriflua, lives principally on
fruit-trees, but also on Oak, Beech, Elm, Birch, Lime, and Willows, and on many
shrubs. It has a span of 1 '4 to 1 '8 inches. It much resembles Porthesia chrysorrhoia,
but its body is of a lighter, almost golden colour, and the inside edge of the wings
has a longer fringe. The caterpillar is black, with blackish-grey hairs, two vermillion
lines along the back, and patches of snow-white hairs. The chrysalis is of a blackish-
brown colour, and enclosed in a thin whitish-brown cocoon. During June and July
it lays 150 to 200 eggs in clusters on foliage, and covers them up with golden-yellow
wool from the abdomen. The caterpillars appear in August, and feed on leaves,
buds, flowers, and young fruit, hibernate on the ground or in fissures of the bark
near the ground, and recommence feeding in the following spring till they become
chrysalides, about the end of May or in June, on rolled-up leaves or on twigs. The
use of patent tar in early spring seems recommendable.
B. Butterflies (Papilionidse).
Among Butterflies proper (Papilionidse), which swarm in the day-time, the only
species of anything like sylvicultural importance is the large Tortoises-hell Butterfly,
Vanessa poly chloros, with a span of 2*2 to 2*6 inches. It is of a yellowish-red in the
upper part, and dark brown towards the edges ; the upper wings are spotted with
black, three spots being on the yellow ground ; the lower wings have a large black
spot on the upper edge, and a blue moon-spot near the fringe. The greyish-blue
caterpillar is 1*8 inches long, with yellow stripes along the back and sides, and rusty
yellow prickles. The chrysalis is angular, reddish-grey, and with several spots having
a mother-of-pearl lustre. The female, after hibernating, lays her blackish -grey eggs
in clusters during spring on the twigs of fruit-trees, but also on Elm, Willow, and
Aspen. The caterpillars, which appear in May and June, live in colonies in nests, and
feed on the foliage till the end of June, when they scatter to become chrysalides.
C. Clearwing-moths (Sesiidx).
Of the family of Clearwing-moths (Sesiidee), Sesia apiformis does a good deal of
damage in the wood of young Poplars, especially Black Poplar and Aspen. The
moths swarm in June and July, when the ova are deposited in the fissures of the
bark near the base. The caterpillars appear in July and August, bore into the
