DAMAGE CAUSED BY ANIMALS. 213
wood of the stem, live there through two winters, and then come out to enter the
pupal state of rest in pupal chambers formed on or near the ground out of bore-dust.
The imagines appear in June, the complete generation occupying two years. It is very
frequently to be found along with Cerambyx (Saperda) carcharias (vide par. 94).
D. Wood-borers (Cossidee).
Among Wood-boring moths (Cossidas), the Goat-moth and the Wood Leopard-moth
certainly deserve some passing notice.
The Goat-moth, Cossus ligniperda, has a span of 2 '6 to 2 '8 inches for the male, and
3 *2 to 3 '4 inches for the female. The upper wings are greyish brown, with whitish-grey
markings, and with many dark brown transverse lines ; the lower wings are ashy-
grey to greyish-brown. The abdomen is long and blunt, and of a greyish-brown
colour, with white edging to the rings. The 16-footed caterpillar is 3 '6 to 3 '8 inches
long, reddish -yellow at first and brownish-red later on, with brown head and breast-
plate, darker above than below, naked, and smelling of acetic acid. The thick, ruddy-
brown chrysalis has prickly projections on the abdominal sections. It swarms in
June and July, when the ova are deposited, to a total of about 25, in the bark-fissures
of Oak, Elm, and most softwoods. In July the caterpillars appear and continue
boring in the wood till the May of the second year afterwards, the generation being
biennial ; they do great damage to the timber technically.
The Wood Leopard-moth, Zeuzera sssculi, also does damage technically, but chiefly
attacks young stems of Maple, Sycamore, Ash, and Lime among forest trees. It is
only about two-thirds of the size of the previous species. The wings are white, with
numerous round steel-blue spots, and six similar spots on the trunk of the body. Its
abdomen is striped alternately with blackish-blue and white. The caterpillar is
yellowish, with little black warts ; it appears in August, eats in the splint for the
first summer, but then proceeds deeper into the wood, boring upwards into the stem ;
in June of the second year it returns to near the bark, in order to enter the pupal state
within the soft sap wood, and thus complete its biennial generation. Trans.
APPENDIX.
104. The Insect Producers of Deformities and Malformations.
In addition to the injurious insects above treated of, which
inflict damage on the timber, bark, foliage, or roots of our wood-
land trees, there are also numbers of other insects that produce
certain variations from the normal growth in the shape of galls,
excrescences, and knots, and which are, in short, producers of
deformities and malformations. And even though in the most
instances the damage caused by them may be slight, and merely
such as to render remedial measures only exceptionally advisable
or possible, yet it is desirable that the forester should know some-
thing of. their origin also ; hence a few remarks concerning them
may here be made.
