214 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
1. ON CONIFERS.
Plant-lice (Aphidte).
The Green Spi*uce Aphis, Spruce-gall Aphis, or Spruce Chermes,
Chermes viridis. This minute tree-louse, only 0*08 inches in
length, and of a yellowish-green to light brown colour, with
whitish down and white wings, bores into the buds of young 10
to 20 year-old Spruce for the purpose of depositing its ova to the
number of about 20 to 30 on the edges of the bracts or scales. By
means of the puncture thus made, and the absorption of the sap
by the young caterpillars, a cone-like swelling of the compressed
needles takes place, which assumes a green appearance at first,
but afterwards turns ruddy brown, and after it has opened at the
edges of the scales or leaf-bracts, so as to permit the exit of the
imagines in July and August, finally becomes dry and dull brown.
Fortunately the side-shoots are much more frequently attacked
than leading-shoots, for the shoots punctured assume curious
shapes and bends, and if badly attacked the young plants fall
into a sickly and unhealthy condition. The best remedial
measure consists in cutting off the galls, and drying and burning
them, whenever the insect becomes a pest. 1
The Red Spruce Aphis, Chermes coccineus, which is somewli.it
smaller than the above species, and of a brownish-red colour with
white downy spot behind, has a similar life-history, but its met
morphosis takes place somewhat more quickly, so that 3 to 4 gei
rations usually take place in one year (Hess). The cone-j
occasioned by this louse are much smaller than the former, am
are usually located at the tip of the twigs without any shoots
above them ; at first of a green colour, they afterwards become
red, and finally brown.
The Larch Aphis, Chermes laricis, a small blackish-bro^
louse, easily recognisable from its white woolly pad, damages
needles of Larch from April till August, by sucking out the
1 The remarkable manner of reproduction of this insect deserves some not
When the imagines swarm in July and August, the female, after impregnation, deposits
her ova on the needles and twigs, the ova being placed on long stalks and dusted over
with powdery wool. The brood issuing from these ova in a few weeks, first hiber-
nates, and then in the following spring deposits the ordinary eggs from which the lice
are developed. The insects appearing in autumn are merely females whose sole duty
is to deposit ova in the following spring. That is, the male and female insects pro-
duce, in the first instance, female eggs only, from which insects appear that, without
further impregnation, produce both male and female ova. Trans.
