216 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The Oak-apple Gall-wasp, Cynips (Dryophanta) quercus folii, is
the principal of the various kinds of Gall-wasps that attack the
leaves of the Oak. It occasions the well-known large green and
red " Gall-apples " pendent from the lower side of Oak foliage,
and about the size of a cherry.
The Oak -cone Gall-wasp, Cynips (Aphilotrix) fecundatrix, pro-
duces the small wooden excrescences like hop-fruits or cones
at the point of Oak twigs ; these cones are greenish at first, but
afterwards turn brown and harden. They are often collected
together in clusters.
The Oak-rose Gall-wasp, Cynips (Teras) terminalis, produces the
large red, spongy galls at the tips of Oak twigs. These round,
rose-coloured, spongy galls are formed by a cluster of different
chambers, and are usually found at the terminal bud, where the
" roses " grow to the size of a potato.
Plant-lice (Aphid*).
The Elm-gall Aphis, Tetraneura ulmi, produces the small club-
like galls of the size of a pea or bean on the upper side of the leaves
of the Elm (and, according to Altum, only on the Ulmus campestris),
with which the whole of the foliage is sometimes covered. The
Elm-blister Aphis, Schizoneura lanuginosa, causes the large hairy
galls that occur on the tips of the shoots and on the foliage
of Elms ; during the summer these blisters contain an india-
rubber-like fluid in which the lice live from June till August. At
first the galls are green and red, but turn brown as they harden and
dry. The Beech Aphis, Chermes fagi, and the Ash Aphis, Chermes
fraxini, produce cankerous-like spots on the bark of these trees.
alternative generation ; that is to say, winged insects develop a wingless, hibernating,
agamic species, which reproduces itself parthenogenetically, or without any sexual
intercourse being necessary, and whose brood throws back to the original form iu
which sexual relations are necessary for reproduction. Thus, Cynips fecundatrix pro-
duces C. pilosa, whose ova develop into imagines as C. fecundatrix once more ;
Cynips terminalis deposits ova from which C. aptera is developed, and after forming
galls on the roots of trees, this insect, without impregnation, lays eggs from which
the original C. terminalis is reproduced. This is all the more wonderful, when one
recollects that C. terminalis, produced at the tips of the twigs in the crown, wanders
away down to the roots to deposit her ova, and that the agamic form C. aptera, when
fully developed, migrates up to the summit of the crown, to reproduce the original
form there once more. Trans.
