PROTECTION OF FOREST BOUNDARIES. 219
CHAPTEE I.
PROTECTION OF FOREST BOUNDARIES.
106. Means of Protection ; Boundary Marks.
Boundary marks are intended to serve the purpose of protect-
ing the property they mark off from interference by any parties
other than the owner or his agents ; and where the ownership of
one proprietor ceases and that of another begins, it is highly
desirable that some distinctive marks should be set up for easy
recognition by the parties mutually concerned.
Boundary marks of one sort or another have been customary
throughout time immemorial in all lands. 1 Under the most
primitive conditions, or even at the present time wherever prac-
ticable (as in the formation of State Eeserved Forests in India),
the choice of lines fell on natural boundaries as forming the most
convenient and unmistakable marks, quite definite enough to
satisfy all the requirements of an early state of society. The
marks usually chosen, and still in many cases remaining even now
as the boundaries of large estates, were streams, valleys, ridges of
hills, pathways, rocks, and conspicuous trees.
These natural boundary marks are, however, not always per-
manent and immovable, for streams alter their courses, paths vary
and change in the course of time, and trees specially marked, or
known by designation far and wide, even when lopped so as to
diminish the risk of breakage or windfall, ultimately die off : rocks
and ridges of hills have, of course, a practical stability that secures
them against any of the objections to these other marks.
But as the original primitive conditions gradually gave way to
1 It may be of interest to note that in primitive lands the penal laws are usually
most severe against offences relating to boundary marks, then in regard to offences
relating to a man's wife or wives, then to offences against his person, and finally, to
offences against his other property. It thus seems tacitly argued that his most
valuable possessions are his land, his wife (or wives), then his own healthy body, and
lastly, his personal effects. Trans.
