PROTECTION OF FOREST BOUNDARIES. 221
at the same time, be utilised for bearing other marks, like any
sign or the initials of the proprietor, or numbers relative to com-
partments, administrative divisions, &c., is, of course, a matter
purely of administrative convenience.
107. The Erection of Boundary Marks.
The affixation of boundary marks over a whole estate is termed
its demarcation. This always has for its object the determina-
tion of boundaries where they have not already been definitely
laid down, or where any doubt on the subject may have arisen.
On the Continent any such doubts or difficulties are practically
settled by Government land surveyors, but throughout Britain the
machinery of the Civil Courts is the recognised and only legal
channel for settling any questions relative to the proprietorship
over any portions of land at issue. The first necessary opera-
tion in demarcating land should, of course, be to erect permanent
boundary pillars at all the angles, and then, whenever necessary,
to set up intermediate stones between such main angular points as
cannot be seen from each other respectively ; in place of having
angular lines on the heads of these latter, they should have graved
on them a straight line in the direction followed by the
boundary.
When the permanent demarcation of any hitherto undefined
boundary takes place, the recognised agents of both parties con-
cerned should be present at the delimitation and the erection of
the permanent boundary marks, in order that a fruitful source of
subsequent disputes may be obviated ; and whenever any periodical
revision of the marks is deemed necessary, all parties interested
personally in the matter should take care to be represented. 1
In the olden times it was not unusual to bury broken glass, or
bricks, or rubble of any sort, beneath boundary marks, so as to
have some means of determining their original position should
there be any reason to suspect that they had been surreptitiously
removed ; but with the modern appliances of surveying, these
antiquated safeguards are now no longer necessary.
For extensive forest tracts, such as woodlands owned by the
1 The Riding of the Marches in the border counties of Scotland, and the Beating of
the Boundaries in many parts of England, are survivals of the old customary revisions
that have come down to the present day, though often more as a holiday pageant
than anything else. Trans.
