222 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
State or by the great landed proprietors, a demarcation register
should be kept, showing :
1. The name of each separate locality or forest.
2. The number of its boundary marks.
3. The distance from each mark to the next.
4 The angle (acute or obtuse expressed in degrees) formed
at each mark with those next to it in either direction.
5. The name of the owner, and the nature of the land march-
ing with or contiguous to it.
6. The mention of points at which the boundary is intersected
by roads, paths, streams, &c.
108. The Vp-Tceep of Boundary Marks.
The maintenance of boundaries in good and serviceable order
is just as important as their demarcation in the first instance, for,
from one reason or another, they are always liable to get damaged
and displaced, especially when they are not of the most durable
description. The necessary repairs are generally very simple at
the outset, but the longer rectifications are delayed, the greater
becomes the difficulty of restoring matters to their original posi-
tion without a considerable amount of trouble and delay.
It is, therefore, advisable that a revision of all the boundary
marks should be made at least once a year, and that on eacl
such occasion any discrepancies should be noted, and, if possible,
immediately rectified.
Where the boundary should happen to run through timber
crops, which will seldom occur in British woodlands, except so
far as regards the interior and administrative division of the area
into compartments and the like, boundary lines should be kept
clear of all growth on neutral strips of land extending equally to
each side of the actual or imaginary boundary line, and broad
enough to permit of one stone being seen from the other, and
these narrow lanes or vistas should be kept clear of boughs,
coppice-shoots, shrubs, &c.
When the boundary stones occur at the corner of roads or on
spots where they are likely to be damaged or displaced by carts,
they should be protected by stones placed at the sides and in
front of them. Where the woods are bordered by fields, they are
