PROTECTION AGAINST MISUSE OF RIGHTS OR SERVITUDES. 225
favours, or not infrequently in use and custom which, from not
being checked until the market value of the forest produce had
risen somewhat, in the lapse of years grew to have the legal
status of a prescriptive right. Or, on the other hand, in a great
many cases the ancestors of those, to whom only servitudes or a
certain restricted dominium utile now remains, were formerly the
actual owners in common of the woodlands, but gradually one or
more forged ahead in power and influence, and ultimately either
by consent or usurpation assumed for himself and his heirs the
dominium directum or ostensible possession of the land.
It may easily be understood, with a little reflection, that under
certain circumstances the servitudes may be of greater value than
the benefits derivable from the nominal ownership of the soil, and
that, unless limits be assigned to them, they may ultimately
extinguish any benefits derivable from possession.
The nature and the results of servitudes over forest land have
little practical interest for Britain, although those on the Con-
tinent are interesting, and all the more so as very few of the
State Forests of India, the selection and formation of which has
for the last 20 years occupied the full energy of the Indian Forest
Department, and will still take it many years of unremitting
labour, can be set apart without being burdened to a greater or
less extent by " rights or privileges" accorded with generosity, and
too often with a lavish hand, as far as concerns the existing popula-
tion in the vicinity, and its probable increase in the near future.
The rights and privileges included under such servitudes over
woodland areas are of many kinds, varying of course with the
nature of the produce of the different localities. Among the
most frequent in the Crown forests of England and on the Con-
tinent of Europe are the following :
1. Eights relating to Timber, for building purposes, trade-
requirements, fuel, softwoods, dead wood, windfall, stumps,
brushwood.
2. Rights relating to Minor Produce, dead foliage for litter,
grazing, pasturage, pannage, tapping for resin, collection
of mast, collection of fern, turbary.
3. Other Rights, quarrying, mining, right of way, right of
transport by land and water.
Such servitudes frequently debar the owner in possession from
utilising the land in the most economical way as regards choice
