INTRODUCTION. 3
the common law. 1 It is then that the State is able to assist in
the protection of forests by the enforcement of rational forest
laws in its capacity of supreme supervisor entrusted with the
carrying out of certain duties.
Thus, whilst the discovery and notification of a forest mis-
demeanour, the extinction of a forest fire, the destruction of
injurious insects within one's own woods, and the like, are classi-
fiable under Protection of Woodlands, yet the punishment of the mis-
demeanour, orders regarding measures to be taken for the preven-
tion of forest fires, and special rules or orders relative to injurious
insects in other woods in general, are classifiable under Forest Law.
In the following, only the former is dealt with, the Protection
of Woodlands.
3. Establishment for carrying out Protective Measures.
The duty of carrying out protective measures in the sense
above indicated extends to all those concerned in the administra-
tion of the forests, from the lowest to the highest official, but of
course in varying degree.
The principal duty of the protective establishment, consisting
of the foresters, assistant foresters, wood-reeves, overseers, and
keepers, whose knowledge of forestry has simply been confined to
the practical side, is the protection of the forests against the
actions of men, against mischief or misdemeanour, whilst the
administrative officers, stewards, or agents have, as a rule, only to
supervise and direct the operations of their subordinates. A
second part of the protective duty that concerned with the
animal world, and particularly with regard to insects is as much
the duty of the administrative as of the protective establishment,
and involves a constant watchfulness to discover any impend-
ing danger, so as to take measures for its prevention. A third
and highly important part of the Protection of Woods devolves
solely on the administrative establishment, namely, the protection
afforded by judicious location of the annual falls, arrangement of
work, and tending of woodlands so as to resist storms, snow accumu-
1 In Bavaria, for example, special orders are enforced, whenever there is danger of
any insect calamity, to ensure the removal of coniferous stems to over half a mile
from the forest, or else in regard to barking of the logs, in order to prevent large
attacks of Bostrichini in consequence of the immense fellings sometimes necessitated
(as at present, in consequence of the spruce moth). Trans.
