PROTECTION AGAINST FOREST OFFENCES, ETC. 229
sary for the well-being of everyone, hence there is often very
considerable temptation offered to the poorer classes to possess
themselves by illegitimate means of some of the benefits derivable
therefrom. And this temptation is often strengthened by the
fact that, amongst the poorer classes, the theft of timber or other
products of woodlands is not at all regarded in the same light as
the theft of ordinary articles which may happen to be in the posses-
sion of others. 1 Thus in the States within the German Empire it
is only in Saxony and Wurtemberg that the purloining of forest
produce may be ranked as theft, when the quantity stolen is of
some considerable value.
In thickly-wooded tracts where the population is poor there is
of course most tendency towards removal of wood for fuel during
severe years, and to the removal of grass and other fodder stuffs
when the ordinary sources of supply are deficient. But owing to
the difficulty of according constant supervision to every part of
any extensive forest even during the day time, to say nothing of
the hours after dark, well-planned purloining of produce can
easily be carried on from time to time without much danger of
detection, especially when the movements of the foresters and
woodmen have been carefully studied, or if the protective establish-
ment is at all remiss in the performance of its duties.
So far as the well-being of the woods themselves is concerned,
many of the effects of purloining of timber, &c., concern to a far
greater degree the pocket of the proprietor than the future
development of the crop or the productive capacity of the soil,
as, for example, the surreptitious removal of dry poles or the
cutting of grass or herbage on green lanes. But, on the other
hand, such acts as cutting out of sound dominating poles forming
a portion of the canopy, or removing dead foliage from the same
localities for use as litter, not only directly damage the crop, but
also tend indirectly to reduce the timber-producing capacity of
the soil.
1 There is undoubtedly a difference in degree in these matters, for forests were
originally a free gift of natural growth ; and if the titles to all woodland estates were
examined, it might often be found that the ancestors of the present owners had merely
been more swaggering bullies than their neighbours, and had filched ownership from
others who had originally equal rights with them in the land. Trans.
