230 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
113. Misdemeanours through Wilful Damage or Culpable Neglect.
Damage may arise to woodlands either by reason of imprud-
ence and carelessness, or from maliciousness and revenge.
Injuries to young growth are often caused by the carelessness
and imprudence of the woodmen themselves when engaged in the
felling and stacking of timber, and in preparing it for sale,
especially when they are engaged in clearing away standard trees
after the completion of natural reproduction on any tract. And
in the same way, when timber is being dragged or carted out of
the forest, damage to young growth, as well as to standing timber,
is often caused by sheer carelessness.
Of the injuries caused by maliciousness or feelings of revenge,
there are of course endless forms, ranging from damage to the
bark or stems of young plants up to incendiarism, resulting
sometimes in huge forest fires, often involving the useless
destruction of very large quantities of valuable timber.
In the eye of the law these two classes of injuries naturally
assume very different aspects, for in the latter case, though the
actual damage inflicted may happen to be slight, the intention
to inflict injury is in itself a graver offence than accidental damage
caused by a due want of prudence and forethought.
114. Offences Arising from Other Causes.
Under this heading may be classed all the other petty offences
which are due to non-compliance with legitimate orders given
under the forest rules in countries that, like India, have special
forest laws. They comprise the removal of timber and other
produce from the woods at other times, or by other routes, than
those that have been sanctioned in order to secure the possibility
of maintaining a proper check over it, the removal of timber or
other produce after the prescribed time, any neglect of instructions
concerning the kindling or extinction of fires, and the like.
In most such cases punishments, if awarded at all, ought in
general to be so light as not likely to create revengeful feelings.
But at the same time, the damage that can take place from fire in
many kinds of forests is too great and much too serious in its
possible effects for wilful neglect of instructions to be lightly passed
over without any notice being taken of it.
