PROTECTION AGAINST FOREST FIRES. 233
debris littering the ground, or else as conflagrations or crown-fires,
assuming the form of vast flames centred in and devouring the
leaf-canopy formed by the crowns of the trees.
This, of course, leaves out of consideration such cases as the
burning and destruction of single stems, when hollow, by lighting
a fire inside them for the purpose of smoking out a marten,
for instance, or a hive of bees, or the still less frequent occurrence
of an actual soil-fire when peaty land has become ignited and the
fire begins to spread on an extensive scale.
By far the most frequent form of forest-fire is the ground-fire, in
which the flames, ignited among the dry soil-covering of parched-
up grass or dead weeds, run along the ground consuming these and
any dry moss or dead foliage scattered about. In the older
classes of timber crops, where such soil-covering is usually
scantier than in younger woods, and especially in those formed
of species with thick cortaceous bark, the damage done is often
comparatively slight ; but in young seedling crops the tender
plants are generally apt to get killed off, and even in pole-forest
when the heat developed is intense the bark of the stool and the
lower portion of the stem is often so much scorched and damaged
as to entail the sickening, and finally the death, of the plants.
When a ground-fire finds sufficient food on the soil it develops
in intensity and power, and is apt, more especially in coniferous
woods, to secure a hold on the foliage of thickets and of young
pole-forests ; it then assumes the proportions of a conflagration
or crown-fire sweeping onwards and feeding itself upon the
foliage and the branches of the crowns forming the canopy of
the crop. When once such a conflagration has established itself,
it may be carried on by favourable winds to older crops and leave
nothing behind save the charred stems and poles. 1
1 The statistics of the Bavarian Forest Department show that in the State
Forests covering about 2,325,000 acres, during the seven years, from 1877-1883
inclusive, 509 fires occurred over a total area of 1160 acres, which were classifiable
as follows :
Ground-fires, ..... 416
Ground-fires combined with conflagrations, . 70
Ground-fires combined with burning of stems, . 15
Burning of stems only, .... 6
Soil-fires, ...... 2
Note. Although in India the returns of areas run through by fire too often prove
unpleasant reading for those concerned in the administration of the State Forests, it
