234 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
117. Causes of Forest Fires.
The origin of forest-fires is seldom to be found in natural
causes (lightning), but is, in by far the most numerous cases,
entirely due to human imprudence or negligence, such as, for
example, the lighting of fires in dangerous spots by woodmen or
other workmen employed within the forests during dry and windy
weather, and then neglecting to extinguish them thoroughly.
And there are also many purely sylvicultural operations neces-
sitating the use of fire which, if not conducted to their very end
with care and caution, are apt to result in fires ; amongst these
may be mentioned the burning of gorse and heather, the burning
of bark and twigs in order to destroy insects decoyed into it,
and the manufacture of charcoal within the woods.
The careless throwing away of cigar-ends, or of still glowing
matches, or of the ashes from tobacco-pipes, is not infrequently
among the causes of forest fires, more especially in the vicinity of
large towns, as may be proved by the frequent origin of such
fires in proximity to the paths, and on holidays. When paper and
tow are used in place of properly prepared gun-wads, there is
also considerably greater danger of their continuing to glow after
being fired off, and the use of torches when passing through the
woods at night has often ended in their droppings setting fire to
the dead foliage and debris on the ground.
A good many forest fires are also caused only indirectly by
human agency, from the sparks emitted by locomotives along
railways which pass through wooded tracts. Fortunately the
number of cases of incendiarism that occur in civilised countries
is not in tropical forests alone that such dangers exist, as the following extracts, cut
casually by me in India from English newspapers during September 1891, may show :
Toulon, 12th August. The conflagration in the forests of Var is still raging, and
nearly 5000 acres of timber have already been destroyed.
Halifax, 13th August. Enormous damage has been done by forest fires in Cumber-
land County, and lumber camps and buildings lying in the path of the
flames have been swept away.
Oran (Algeria}, 19th August. For the last six days a great conflagration has been
raging in the forest of Ammi-Moussa, and has now reached enormous
dimensions ; over 35,000 acres of timber have been already destroyed.
Cannes, 20th August. A forest fire of considerable extent is raging between
Mandelieu and Pegomas, and, although the scene of the conflagration is
somewhat inland, the cloud of smoke from the burning timber reaches as
far as this place. A strong wind is blowing, and renders fruitless all
efforts to check the flames, which are spreading rapidly. Trans.
