PROTECTION AGAINST FOREST FIRES. 235
from mischief or out of revenge is comparatively slight compared
with the number occurring in India, yet they are much more
numerous than they should be. 1
118. Factors determining the Extent of the Injury.
The danger of fires taking place, and the greater or less extent
of area over which they can spread, are not anything like the
same in all localities, but are always influenced more or less by
local circumstances.
Apart from climatic considerations, the principal factor is of
course the nature of the soil and situation, for on these are
dependent, to a greater or less degree, the nature of the soil-
covering, and the species of tree or trees forming the timber
crops. Inferior qualities of soil, with their dry covering of
heather and coarse grasses, and such deficiency in soil-moisture
that the scrubby growth soon becomes dried up and tinder-like in
summer, are much more threatened with danger from fire than
fresh soils with strong growth of succulent grass and herbage.
And, as a rule, the areas with only inferior qualities of soil are
mainly given up to the cultivation of conifers, whilst, unfor-
tunately, these resinous species are of themselves much more
exposed to danger than the broad-leaved species, more especially
as regards conflagrations of the canopy of foliage, from which the
latter are only likely to suffer exceptionally during the thicket
stage of growth, when dead foliage is still hanging on the twigs.
The class of woodlands most exposed to danger from fire are
heathery stretches covered with pure Scots Pine, where the soil
and its covering are not only usually dry, but the timber crop is
also, per se, cf an inflammable nature when once fire has broken
out.
Young falls of seedling growth are most apt to suffer from
ground-fires when the soil is littered with dry, parched-up weeds,
1 The Bavarian statistics already referred to state that the investigations held con-
cerning the 509 cases of forest fires proved them to have originated as follows :
Proved. Supposed.
From lightning, . . 4
,, railway engines,
,, negligence, .
,, incendiarism, .
unknown causes,
7
47 327
9 64
50
