236 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
whilst thickets and young pole-forests are most exposed to crown-
fires ; but as the timber crops increase in age, the latter danger
diminishes. Large, compact, natural reproductions and plantations
increase the danger of the spreading of fires that may break out,
and at the same time make their extinction a matter of increased
difficulty.
So far as the season is concerned during which forest fires are
most frequent, experience has shown that in Central and Northern
Europe danger is greatest, not during the hot summer months, but
during the spring- time, 1 in the months of March, April, and May,
when the dead grass of the previous year has got dried up by
continuous east winds, and when, at the same time, there are
many more workmen employed in the woods than at other seasons,
engaged in the felling or removal of timber and fuel, the grub-
bing-up of stumps, and the cultural operations of sowing, planting,
thinning, &c. Indeed, from June till October the danger gradually
decreases towards zero near the end of the year.
1 The previously-quoted Bavarian statistics relative to 509 forest fires showed that
they occurred as follows :
January, . . 4 July, . . .43
February, . . 4 August, . . .20
March, . .118 September, . .12
April, . . .114 October, ... 2
May, . . .140 November,
June, . . .51 December, . . 1
The statistics for Hesse during 1881-1885 exhibit similar percentages.
Note. I may perhaps be allowed to add the following notes collected during April
1892 from one English daily newspaper alone :
Hampshire, 3rd April 1892. An alarming fire broke out in the Woolmer Forest
about mid-day to-day. It commenced near the railway station, and covered
thousands of acres in extent, and plantations as well as furze wore
destroyed.
Berlin, 9th April 1892. An enormous conflagration is raging in the forest district
between Hohenschwaugau and Tuessen. Already 500 acres of valuable timber
have been entirely destroyed, and the fire was burning fiercely when the
last news was despatched, although 1000 firemen, with many engines from
various towns, were hard at work.
Berlin, 10th April 1892. Two more destructive fires have been raging to-day
one in the Aldershof Forest, close to this city, and the other in the Fin mm-
hop Forest, near Arnsberg, in Westphalia. The destruction of timber has
been very serious.
New York, IQth April 1892. A telegram from Waterford, New Jersey, states that
forest fires have been raging in the Camden county for the past two days.
Though fortunately less frequent in number, the fires that occur in late summer
are probably, on the whole, by far the most serious in their ultimate results.
Trans.
