PROTECTION AGAINST FOREST FIRES. 237
Continuous drought enhances the danger of fires breaking out,
whilst strong winds increase the chances of any fire becoming a
serious conflagration ; and when these two factors enter into
favourable combination, they can speedily produce the most
unfavourable and disastrous results for the woodlands, especially
in coniferous tracts.
Wherever the forests are in the vicinity of large towns, or
are traversed by railway lines, there always exists greater
danger of fires breaking out than under exactly the opposite
circumstances.
119. Preventive Measures against Fire.
Certain measures for the obviation and prevention of forest fires
lie outside the scope of Protection, and entirely in the domain of
Forest law. These are such as refer to instructions of various
sorts framed and issued under rules made subject to legislative
enactments dealing with forest matters, and include orders relative
to the lighting and extinction of fires in the woods, the use of
torches and other naked lights, and sometimes even the prohibition
of smoking.
So far as the Protection of Forests can go, it is concerned
solely with the measures that can ordinarily be taken by owners
of woodlands to obviate the occurrence of fires on the one hand,
and, on the other, to prevent their spreading to any considerable
extent when once they have broken out. Among such protective
measures may be reckoned the following :
First of all, the prudent conduct of all operations within the
woods for the purposes of which it is necessary to employ fire, as,
for example, in the burning of bark for the destruction of insects,
the burning of turf for the manuring of nurseries, and the firing
of heath, &c., before the cultural operations of sowing or planting
can be advantageously commenced. It is a matter of very con-
siderable importance that the workmen should be thoroughly
impressed -with the necessity for prudence in the case of fire, and
that a proper amount of supervision should be bestowed on
them.
Forest pathways and their immediate vicinity should be kept
clear of all inflammable matter, and green lanes should be kept
free of long grass. Young growth bordering woods or frequented
