238 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
paths should especially be cleared frequently, so as to remove all
the dead branches or twigs and the dry stems.
Where railway lines pass through woodlands, ditches or naked
strips of ground should be formed parallel to them on each side,
and these should be planted up with belts of broad-leaved species
of trees, so that the sparks are not only most likely to be 1
intercepted by the non-inflammable foliage, but are also little
likely to cause fires when they reach the ground, more especially
if the soil below these belts of trees be kept free of inflammable
material by sweeping with stable-brooms, or ordinary besoms made
of scrub.
In extensive woods of Scots Pine formed on heathery tracts,
in which the danger from fire is ordinarily greater than under
almost any other circumstances, it is exceedingly important that
the whole area should be subdivided into compartments by fire-
paths and safety-lines or belts of broad-leaved species, so that
these may be of some assistance in preventing the spread of fires
that may have broken out. The whole woodland area should be sub-
divided into compartments of moderate size by means of narrow
rides, which ought to be carefully kept clear of inflammable matter.
These are of themselves usually sufficient to stop the progress of
a ground fire, whilst in the case of a crown conflagration, they
form very convenient points for at once commencing operations to
prevent the fire spreading into the other portions of the woods.
These rides should run at right angles to the direction of the pre-
vailing winds, that is, should run generally from north to south
(with such deviations to N.E. and S.W., or N.W. to S.E., as local
conditions may suggest), and should be planted up with a fringe,
or, better still, with a wide belt of some broad-leaved species,
which, in the case of a crown-fire, does excellent service in stop-
ping its further progress. In planting up such protective rows or
belts, the Birch is the species which is specially deserving of
attention in this regard, for it is the tree most easily satis-
fied with the inferior conditions as to nutriment that are alone
offered by the poorer classes of sandy soil ; where the Oak finds
any suitable 'home, it also, treated as coppice, is capable of
performing very good service in stopping the progress of
fires.
As it is of very great importance to have speedy informatioi
with regard to the occurrence of any forest fire, so that measui
