PROTECTION AGAINST FOREST FIRES. 239
for its extinction may be taken at once, special watchers should
be maintained in coniferous forests on the plains whenever there
is long, continuous drought in spring or summer, and signals should
be preconcerted in order to call together whatever body of men is
available for the purpose of taking measures to counteract its
spread and to accomplish its extinction. In the North German
plain watch-towers are erected of wood, and cow-horns are blown
from these as soon as any suspicious smoke is seen, whilst the
church bells ring a continuous alarm, and a red flag is run up to
the top of the spire to call the attention of the general population
to the matter.
120. Methods of extinguishing Forest Fires.
Whilst a ground-fire of only petty extent may often quite
easily be extinguished by a few men, yet when once it has
managed to establish itself, and to assume more considerable pro-
portions, hundreds of men can scarcely suffice to prevent it
spreading still further; hence the speediest possible and most
energetic action should be taken, for the actual damage done, and
the danger of its assuming extensive proportions, increase with
every moment lost.
Any forester or woodman, who sees or has been informed that
a fire has broken out, should at once get together as many men
with axes, hoes, spades, &c., as he can, and hurry to the place
where the fire is raging, whilst at the same time despatching
messengers, mounted if possible, to the nearest hamlets or villages
to call for assistance. Arrived at the place where the fire has
occurred, the head man among the party should at once make
such disposal of the workmen at his command as he thinks
best adapted to prevent the fire spreading into neighbouring
woods.
When it is found to be only a ground-fire, as yet of but slight
extent, it is often possible to extinguish it by beating the fringe
of flame with green boughs from the trees, or with the flat
shovels, or by sweeping the fire inwards with besoms, so as to
throw it back on to the parts over which it has already passed.
This should be the first plan tried, and its adoption is often of
itself sufficient to extinguish the fire. When the air is windstill,
or if there be merely a slight breeze blowing, such extinctive
measures can be adopted from different sides simultaneously ; but
