242 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
be needed for the growth on the soil, so as to prevent the com-
mencement of a ground-fire.
Tree-fires, that have broken out in the inside of hollow stems,
may be put out by shutting off the supply of air, which can be
done by plugging up the opening in the trunk with sods of turf
or with earth ; if that cannot be done, the tree may be felled
for the extinction of the flames with earth.
When a soil-fire has broken out in a turf-moor, measures ought
of course to be taken to extinguish it long before it reaches any
forest tracts. Its progress can be hindered by digging ditches
deep enough to reach the mineral soil, and thus isolating the
portion on fire.
When once a forest fire has been extinguished, it is always
necessary to exercise a certain amount of prudence in regard to
leaving watchmen on the spot, especially when any strong breeze
is blowing, so as to take instant measures should there be any
appearance of a recrudescence of the fire. Glowing stems should
be covered over with earth ; the ground to the windward of the
limit of the fire should be turned up if possible, and a good watch
maintained until all danger is completely at an end.
121. Measures to be adopted after Fires.
If woodlands have been more or less damaged by fire, tl
question at once presents itself as to how the injuries inflict
can possibly be reduced to their minimum.
Young coniferous crops are almost always so badly damaged
to necessitate their clearance and re-formation by means of soi
ing or planting, whilst young crops of broad-leaved species
owing to their naturally greater recuperative capacity, able to
reproduce themselves if cut back to the stool after being damped
in the bark by ground-fire. Among broad-leaved species the
Beech suffers most in this respect owing to its smooth thin hark,
which is apt to be injured even by a comparatively light ground-
fire, whilst this can often run through older crops without doing
appreciable damage, more especially when the trees are of thick-
barked kinds like Oak or Scots Pine.
But when such older crops show unmistakable signs of having
sustained some considerable amount of damage, by assuming
a sickly and unhealthy appearance in the foliage, or by individual
