PROTECTION AGAINST DAMAGE BY SMOKE, ETC. 245
tattooed with lighter and darker reddish-brown spots, which
discoloration, in the case of extensive damage, gradually spreads
until the green colouring totally disappears, and the leaf dies
altogether. When the injury to the foliage is attributable to
hydrochloric acid, the leaves are always characterised by a
discoloration of their edges.
Coniferous species of trees are most sensitive to the injurious
effects of smoke and other atmospheric impurities, and, from self-
evident causes, are so in the order represented by the duration of
their spines or needles, viz., Silver Fir, Spruce, Scots Pine, Larch.
By reason of their annual change of foliage, the broad-leaved
species are altogether less sensitive ; the Oak and the Plane
being those which suffer least, then Maple and Sycamore, Ash,
Elm, Poplar, and Mountain Ash, whilst Alder, Lime, and Horn-
beam are more sensitive, and Beech apparently the most sensi-
tive of all. The plants best endowed with a capacity for with-
standing the effects of impurities appear to be those of
agricultural growth and also vegetables.
The damage inflicted is always greatest where narrow valleys
almost force the currents of air to set in particular directions, or
where the injurious acids and impurities occur largely in the
atmosphere. But the local conditions of climate also exert
a certain influence in the matter, as the damage is enhanced in
places with damp, foggy atmosphere always hanging about them.
The crops injured first of all show a diminution in their
increment, and an increased mortality among individual trees, so
that the canopy first of all gets interrupted, and, in the case
of large quantities of impurities working on sensitive species
of trees, gradually more and more broken, till finally the whole
crop dies off, and vacant spaces are formed, which are uncommonly
hard to re-stock. Young pole-forests of 15 to 30 years of age are
liable to suffer most from atmospheric impurities.
123. Preventive Measures.
Various plans have from time to time been adopted, but
hitherto without much success, for minimising the damage thus
caused, and all the more so as in Germany the owners of the
factories are held liable to pay compensation for the injury done.
Endeavours to transform the sulphurous acid contained in the
