6 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
Under Early or Autumn Frosts are understood those occurring
early in autumn, before the young shoots have had time to harden
and become woody, which cause the death of the unhardened por-
tions ; they seldom kill the whole plant outright, the effects being
usually confined to the portions actually damaged by the early
frosts, i.e., the summer shoots in particular. The leaf -shedding
of Scots Pine seedlings (see par. 35) is also by many considered
to be the result of early autumnal frosts.
The cause of plants being frost-bitten during the period of active
vegetation is explainable in the withdrawal of water from the
cells by the frost, the water quitting the cells and passing into
the intercellular spaces, so that the power of tension (turgor) of
the tissue becomes lost, and the portions affected wither and die
off when a thaw sets in. Whether these are actually killed by the
frost, or only die after thawing takes place, is a question not yet
satisfactorily answered ; for, although the latter has hitherto been
the view generally taken, Dr H. Miiller has recently adduced
strong arguments in favour of the former hypothesis, supporting
his view in favour of this by the fact that in hundreds of experi-
ments he has never been able to save, by means of very gradual
thawing, portions of plants that would have been killed by rapid
thawing.
Frosts occurring in Winter during the period of complete rest
from active vegetation do not, as a rule, do much damage to our
indigenous trees or to such exotics as have become acclimatised,
although we not infrequently see somewhat incompletely hardened
shoots of the previous year, the summer shoots especially, killed
off, or the roots of young Oaks die in consequence of long-con^
tinued hard frost when the soil is unprotected by snow, or even
the killing off of older plants and steins, as could frequently be
noted in the hard winter of 1879-80. Here again, too, the with-
drawal of more than a certain limited quantity of water from the
cellular tissue is regarded as the cause of the damage. At the
same time, a drying up of the foliage of coniferous trees may be
the consequence of continuous cold, in consequence of the rapid
transpiration of water through the needles on sunny wintry days,
without the possibility of the evaporated water being replaced by
the frozen woody tissue of the stem ; this phenomenon may not
infrequently be noted on trees exposed to the sun at the edge of
woods, and on such as stand freely exposed to the southern side.
