10 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
greater danger from early frosts. That the shedding of the
leaves of the Scots Pine, by many considered due to late frosts
(see par. 35), may also be due occasionally to early frosts, can be
incidentally mentioned, whilst heart-shakes or frost-shake in the
mature wood are also often caused by early frost. 1
7. Preventive Measures against Injuries from Frost.
With the single exception to be mentioned at the close of this
paragraph, there is no practical way of making good any damage
that has actually taken place from frost ; but, on the other hand,
Sylviculture provides a variety of means by which damage to
young plantations and woods can to a greater or less extent be
prevented, whilst for seed-beds and nurseries a number of directly
protective measures are available at our disposal.
The chief preventive measures, which can be applied on a large
scale for the protection of young plantations and thickets,
consist in the formation and reproduction of crops of trees liable
to suffer from frost, especially of Beech and Silver Fir, under
protective or parent standards, maintenance of fairly dense
canopy or shelter overhead, with gradual removal or clearance of
the same, avoidance of sudden, usually very injurious exposure
of the young growth thus formed or reproduced, and maintenance
of a protective belt on the east and north-east sides till the chief
period of danger for the young crop is at an end. Hardy softwoods,
like Aspen and Birch, which often assert themselves spontaneously
in large numbers among the young growth, may form a very
desirable protection for the more sensitive species, in which case
they should only be gradually cleared or weeded out.
Where natural protective standards are wanting in localities
exposed to danger from frost, they can be artifically produced by
means of hardy woods of speedy growth, like Pine, Birch, or
Alder, which should be planted out in rows somewhat wide apart.
When these have attained a height suitable to afford protectioi
the planting out of the species requiring shelter can take pie
between the rows ; and when the main crop has developed so far
to be above the frost-height, the protective species can then be
gradually removed. Patches that are essentially frost-holes should
always, when possible, be planted up with hardy species.
1 Gayer classes frost among the causes of heart-shakes, but considers the damage
due to the action of winter frosts (Forstbcnutzung, 7th edit., 1888, page 53). Trans.
