DAMAGE CAUSED BY LOW OR HIGH TEMPERATURE. 11
For the planting up of localities somewhat exposed to danger
from frost, or for the more sensitive species of trees, the material
chosen should be large, healthy transplants, not likely at any rate
to be killed outright by the cold ; any rank growth of grass
should be removed, and wet patches of soil sufficiently drained.
In order to hinder them from flushing soon, seedlings of sensitive
species should be removed from the nursery early in the spring
during which they are to be planted out, and bedded in some
cool place till required; by planting late they can also be
protected against late frosts, at any rate for the first spring.
Seedlings which, like natural growth in old woods, have hitherto
stood under strong shade, are not suitable for planting out in the
open, as they are equally sensitive both to frost and heat. Sowing
should not be carried out too early in spring, in order that germina-
tion may not take place till after the danger from late frosts is over.
For seed-beds and nurseries other protective measures are
applicable. Above all, they should only be formed in protected
spots little exposed to danger from late frost, and never in frosty
localities, a preference being given to northern aspects (on account
of the later awakening of active vegetation), to localities protected
by crops of older growth, and to open patches or blanks within the
latter.
By the choice of spring sowing in place of the autumn sowing,
which causes germination early in the following spring, by sowing
late in spring, or by covering hard-frozen soil with leaves and brush-
wood in order to delay the penetration of warmth in spring, the
germination of the seed can be retarded until after the chief time
of danger from frost is over.
Young seedlings just germinated, and older seedlings of sensitive
species, can be protected by sticking twigs and brushwood into
the beds, or still better by placing or hanging a framework of
small battens or of small poles interwoven with twigs over the
beds.
Finally, plants that have been frozen or damaged by hoar-
frost can sometimes be saved by having cold water poured over
them early in the morning, as this delays the process of thawing,
and gives the cellular tissue time to have a chance of recovering
its normal density, and of reducing to their former size the pores
of the walls of the cells expanded through the frost. This is the
only measure that is of any use in the case of damage from frost
