12 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
actually in course of progress ; it is by no means always effective,
but only when the actual damage taking place is comparatively
trifling.
8. Frost-shakes.
In certain species of trees frost-shakes, or longitudinal clefts
or fissures, not infrequently appear on the older classes of stems
as the peculiar effect of hard winter frost. Beginning near the
ground, they are sometimes only a yard or two long, but at other
times extend into the crown, and penetrate from the circumference
to a greater or less depth inwards in the direction of the medul-
lary rays, often to the very core of the stem. Although not
interfering with the vital energy, increment, or development of
the tree, they render the timber less suitable for various technical
purposes, and not infrequently afford an opportunity for the
entrance of fungoid spores into the stem, thereby leading to
subsequent disease.
The occurrence of frost-shakes is due to the contraction of the
wood which takes place during great cold, much in the same way
as contraction of timber is due to the withdrawal of water when
it is becoming seasoned. During severe cold not only the water
contained in the elementary parts of the wood becomes frozen,
but also the water in the cell-walls, whilst at the same time tl
is drawn into the interior of the cells, so that the substance
which the cellular walls are formed is diminished in volui
and contracts, the contraction being greater tangentially thj
radially, and greater in the outside zones with their
quantities of water than in the drier heart-wood. Whenever this
shrinkage exceeds a certain limit, a sudden division of the
woody-fibrous tissue takes place in the direction of the medul-
lary rays, the separation being accompanied with a great noise,
according to direct observations, 1 and the frost-shake is formed.
When the thaw succeeds, and expansion again takes place, the
fissure closes and becomes overgrown by the new annual zone in
the following summer, but it is usually opened again during the
next winter, even by a moderate degree of cold ; when, however,
several mild winters pass by without causing the fissure to
1 Precisely the same occurs, owing to shrinkage from heat, in the bamboo forests of
Burma, during the hot months of March and April, when the halms burst with loud
noise, often as loud as the report from a pistol. Trans.
