14 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
moisture towards the lower layers is considerably interfered with,
whereby the drainage and drying of the upper layer is prevented.
As already stated, damage from raising of the earth chiefly
occurs in nurseries, owing to the loose naked soil having no binding
covering of weeds, or else on falls where sowing or planting has
just been carried out. All species of trees do not, of course, suffer
from its effects in the same degree, the greatest damage being
done to the shallow-rooting species, headed by the Spruce, and to
one and two-year-old Silver Fir in seed-beds, whilst seedlings of
Oak, Sweet Chestnut, Scots and Black Pine, whose roots strike
deeper into the soil from the very first year of their growth, are
almost entirely exempt from danger.
Preventive Measures against plants being lifted by frost are :
In the Open. Draining of damp patches, avoidance of sowing
in localities exposed to danger, and the use of sturdy transplants
instead, if necessary with balls of mother-earth around the roots ;
in very damp localities even the latter measure is not sufficient to
prevent the raising of the transplants, so that tumping or the
formation of mounds is advisable.
In Seed-beds. No breaking up of the soil or rooting-out of
grass or weeds from the beds should take place after September,
any rank weeds that appear after that being cut away or clipped
close to the ground. The spaces between the rows of seedlings
can be filled during autumn with leaves, moss, or loose earth, am
even the plants themselves can be banked up. Deep paths
between the beds help to drain the upper layers of the soil,
and thus to minimise the danger. Broad, thickly-sown seed-rillj
sometimes recommended as a protection against lifting of th<
seedlings by frost, certainly suffer less, but have the still greater
drawback of yielding only badly developed plants.
Remedial Measures when once the Damage has occurred. In the
open these are practically confined to pressing back, either with
the hands or feet, the balls of earth around transplants, so as to
revive the close connection between these and the soil ; but in
nurseries, seedlings that have been raised should be pressed back
again after the thaw has taken place, and at the same time
any portion of the roots still left exposed should be covered with
loose soil.
