16 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
also be mentioned the greater danger from fire, and from the
numerical increase of injurious insects in consequence of the sickly
growth of young crops owing to the heat and the dying off of
stems and poles, dry summers being decidedly favourable to an
abnormal increase among insects.
11. Factors determining the Occurrence and Extent of
the Damage.
The above mentioned injurious effects of heat, which can be
very considerably increased by continuous east winds, are most
apparent in the following cases :
(a) When the plants are of shallow-rooting species, like Spruce,
Silver Fir, and Beech ; species that begin from the very
first to develop a deep root-system, like Oak, Pines, and
Larch, are comparatively little exposed to danger.
(b) In the case of seedlings and young plants, especially when
they have been recently planted out and have not had time
to fully establish themselves ; older transplants, or young
plantations, or crops that have already begun to form
canopy, seldom show any injurious effects from heat.
Young crops, whether formed by sowing or planting, are
often killed off to a very considerable extent by loug-con-
continued heat.
(c) When the soil is shallow, loose, and naturally dry, or
sandy peat, or very limy soils, and on southern ai
western exposures, which suffer more than the fresh*
eastern or, better still, the northern aspects. On plaii
and in low upland tracts, which also usually have a
warmer climate, the injurious effects of heat will be more
frequently noticeable than in mountainous tracts with
their greater relative humidity, and their more abundant
aqueous precipitations. A dense soil covering or rank
growth of grass is disadvantageous on areas to be wooded,
as it involves the transpiration of a large quantity of
moisture, and prevents slight precipitations from reaching
the soil. Damage caused by reflection of the heat is also
not infrequently to be noted at the edge of the next
year's fall of mature timber, or in the vicinity of in- (
dividually isolated stems (standards), not only in the
