18 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
the subsequent crop, should be retained with a view to the pro-
tection of the soil until the formation of the young crop is
well advanced or nearly complete.
Where natural reproduction seems inadvisable, narrow annual
falls should be made running from north-west to south-east, and
gradually advancing annually towards the south-west ; thus the side
of next year's mature fall protects the youngest crop from the
hot mid-day sun, and often proves more beneficial than direct
overshadowing.
On hillsides with southern or western aspects, thinnings must
take place very carefully, and should not be carried out strongly.
The retention of the annual fall of leaves and needles, and the
utmost possible restriction of their removal for agricultural or
domestic purposes, are also of great importance, especially on hill-
sides ; for the layer of leaves or moss not only acts mechanically in
preventing evaporation of the soil-moisture, but also hinders the
rapid running off of water received as rain or snow, and gives it
time to percolate into the subsoil after the soil has itself become
saturated with moisture. By means of protective belts of densely
foliaged species planted thickly along the edges and outskirts of
woods, the penetration of winds likely to exhaust the moisture
from the soil, and to blow away the dead foliage, can to a
great extent be prevented.
Although mainly intended to form a protection against the;
rapid running off of rain water (see par. 15), the formation of
horizontal ditches also acts as a means of retaining and increasing
the amount of moisture in the soil.
For nurseries and seed-beds care should especially be taken
to select sites neither exposed to insolation nor to the action
of drying-up winds ; seeking the shady side of older crops, and
avoiding, as far as possible, localities exposed towards the south or
west, are much to be recommended.
Both for nurseries, and for sowing in the open, a deep loosening
of the soil, to be repeated at times between the seed-rills and
seedling-rows in the former, appears to assist in retaining the soil
moist, as the atmospheric precipitations can penetrate more easily
and deeply. The larger interstices between the particles of soil
prevent rapid capillary ascension of moisture to the surface, and
thus maintain a greater degree of moisture in the portion of soil
occupied by the roots. At the same time, in loose, porous soil the
