DAMAGE CAUSED BY ATMOSPHERIC PRECIPITATIONS. 23
A. EAIN.
15. Injuries caused ly Rain; Preventive Measures.
In general, the effects of rainfall are in the main beneficial, as
the vegetation thereby receives the supplies of moisture so essen-
tially necessary for its thriving. The continuous want of rain
in summer, especially during May, is often productive of the
worst results for young sowings, and for transplants that have not
yet established themselves in their new abode. A rainy year is, on
the other hand, always advantageous for woodland growth, as the
young crops prosper well, and plants and trees injured by late
frosts or insects get a quicker and fuller flush of new foliage, so
that a very large rainfall can only be injurious on soils that are
of themselves moist.
But rain can also be of itself injurious if falling in sheets or
descending with great violence as a water-spout, when large
quantities of water reach the ground in a short time, whilst less
violent rainfall is also injurious, if of long-continued duration.
Scouring and washing away of the soft upper soil from unprotected
hillsides, and of the layers of dead foliage and humus from better
protected areas, washing out of the seed from sowings and seed-
beds, interferences with the latter, more especially on slopes, and
damage to ditches and roads, are not infrequently the results.
The means of preventing such damage consists chiefly in the
maintenance of a suitable stock or crop of timber on steep hill-
sides, judicious and gradual reproduction of the same, avoidance of
grubbing up the stools, and retention of the soil-covering of
undergrowth, brushwood, moss or dead foliage. The very great
importance of woodlands, and of their natural soil-covering on
steep slopes, more especially in mountainous tracts, is now
thoroughly recognised, in respect to the regulation of the running
off of moisture, the prevention of the scouring and washing away
of the surface-soil or of inundations, the maintenance of a
gradual circulation of moisture for the perennial feeding of
springs and brooks, in short, their influence as protective
forests. The woodland crops break the violence of rainy down-
pours ; stumps, roots, and, above all, the layer of dead foliage and
moss, hinder the speedy off-flow of the water that has reached the
ground, and give it time to percolate into the soil ; fallen leaves
