24 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
and moss, together with the humus or vegetable mould formed by
their gradual decomposition, imbibe, with sponge-like absorptive
power, large quantities of moisture, which they retain and only
gradually part with again to the soil and the atmosphere. In
most countries the maintenance, tending, and economic treatment
of such protective woodlands is provided for by law.
The formation of horizontal ditches for catchment of the water,
is a measure that has found extensive application in recent years.
The ditches, running horizontally along the hillsides, are formed
about 12 inches deep, and in parallel lines about 16 to 32 feet
apart, according to the steepness of the slope ; as they not only
catch the water flowing down from below the ditch immediately
above, but retain it to percolate gradually into the soil below,
they work beneficially in a double manner (see par. 12).
Sowings on slopes should always be carried out in horizontal
rills or bands, as otherwise the seed is apt to be washed away by
the down-pouring rain. Although the formation of nurseries on
soil with a steep gradient should be avoided as much as possible,
yet this cannot always be helped in mountainous tracts. Where
this is unavoidable, something can always be done to improve
matters by terracing the ground, placing the seed-beds and the
paths between them horizontally, leaving bands of unbroken soil
with its original covering of weeds, &c., between the beds, so
to check any tendency to scouring of the soil, and formation oi
narrow seed-beds in place of larger patches or seed-plots. Ttu
washing away of the seed can be prevented by covering the
with branches, moss, or frame-work.
B. SNOW.
16. Damage caused by Snow.
So long as the snow is dry, and does not fall in too large
quantities, it does no damage to woodlands ; on the contrary, it
protects young growth from damage at the time of felling am
extracting timber when the standards are being cleared, makes
extraction easier, prevents the roads being badly cut up, and is
one of the chief sources whence are obtained the winter moisture
so necessary for the well-being of timber crops during the summer.
But when the snow falls in moist, large flakes, and accumulates
in large quantities on the leaves, twigs, and branches of conifei
