DAMAGE CAUSED BY ATMOSPHERIC PRECIPITATIONS. 25
and on the dead foliage still adhering to deciduous trees, not
infrequently freezing with a fall in temperature, and then offering
an increased foothold for further masses of falling snow, the
enormous burden thrown on the crowns of the trees becomes too
great to be borne. Wholesale damage can then often be caused
by the accumulations of snow either snapping off the tops of the
trees or breaking off the branches forming the crown, or else
simply throwing or crushing down the whole or a considerable part
of the crop, by reason of the enormous pressure exerted on the crowns.
When branches, top-ends, or even poles and stems nearer the
base are snapped by snow, the damage is said to be done by
snow-break; but when the effects of the accumulations are, as
may often be noted in young plantations, even of species of trees
that are by no means easily thrown, to throw individual stems, or
whole patches, or larger portions of the crop to the ground with-
out breaking the bole, so that sometimes even the roots are drawn out
of the soil, the damage is said to be caused by snow-pressure. When
poles bending under a load of snow are burdened for some time with
the accumulation, they lose the power of recovering their original
upright growth, remain bent or crooked, and gradually die off.
Snow-break occurs on single individual trees, or in patches
throughout the crop, whilst, on hillsides, lanes are sometimes
opened out by it ; but, as a rule, it occurs mostly in small patches
in the interior of forests, and on individual trees only near the
edges of the compartment.
The damage wrought by such snow accumulations on a some-
what extensive scale are partly direct or immediate, partly
secondary or indirect.
As direct or immediate consequences, may chiefly be noted the
interruption of leaf-canopy, and blanks formed in the crop,
with the loss of increment which is thereby entailed. The
damage done is, of course, the greater, the more the continuity of
the canopy is interrupted and broken, and not merely lessened in
density ; and the younger the crop is, the less will be the
returns procurable for the timber that will have to be extracted
and utilised. The damage can sometimes assume such propor-
tions that the whole of the immature crop may have to be
prematurely harvested. The growth of weeds and brushwood,
and the deterioration of the soil in consequence of the injurious
effects of insolation and winds on it, for the soil, no longer
