DAMAGE CAUSED BY ATMOSPHERIC PRECIPITATIONS.
27
17. Factors determining the Occurrence and Extent of the Danger.
The nature and extent of the damage done by snow, and the
frequency or infrequency of its repetition, are .due to many
circumstances and influences.
Soil and Situation are perhaps of first importance in this respect,
as damage is most frequent in high ranges of hills and among
the outlying hills of high mountain chains. On plains and in low-
lying tracts snow seldom falls in vast quantities ; whilst at higher
elevations in mountainous localities, the flakes are mostly dry;
small, and therefore comparatively uninjurious. Timber crops that
have shot up quickly with clean stems, are naturally much more
exposed to danger from snow than the shorter-boled crops on less
productive soil.
But species of tree, age of crop, and density of canopy are also of
influence in the matter, as snow-break occurs when the burden of
snow on the crowns exceeds the carrying power of the stem,
whilst the pressure is determined by the quantity of falling snow
which settles on the crown, and by the weight of the snow, which
is more than twice as great in the wet state than when dry. The
formation of the branches and the nature of the foliage determine
the quantity of snow accumulating on the individual tree, whilst
the density of canopy determines it for the whole crop. It is
therefore clear that the evergreen conifers, Silver Fir, Spruce, and
Pine, must be more exposed to danger from snow than broad-
leaved deciduous species and Larches that are defoliated in winter,
and hence offer a much smaller resting-place for the falling snow, 1
although broad-leaved species are by no means exempt from
1 Interesting measurements made by Biihlers in Switzerland, after heavy snowfall,
I gave the following results :
Percentage
Depth of Snow-
fall in the Open.
Depth of Snowfall on the Soil inside the Forest.
consequently
intercepted by
the Timber
Crop.
13-3 inches.
Dense Spruce Plantation, 15 years old, 3 '2 inches.
76 per cent.
13-3 ,,
Natural reproduction of Spruce, 40
years old, . . . . . 1'6 ,
88
11-2
11-2
Spruce Forest in close canopy, 90 years old, 5'2 ,
Beech Pole-forest, 35 vears old, . . lO'O ,
54
11 ,
11-2
Do. 55 years old, . . lO'O ,
11 ,
13-3
High Forest of Beech, 70 years old, . 10 '8 ,
18 ,
