DAMAGE CAUSED BY ATMOSPHERIC PRECIPITATIONS. 29
than high forest with its annual falls or crops of equal-aged growth,
owing to the more vigorous development of the individual stems
and patches, and the irregularity and constantly varying level of
the leaf -canopy.
18. Preventive Measures.
The means at disposal for obviating damage from snowfall are
almost purely of a sylvicultural nature, and consist in the judicious
choice of the species forming the crop, in its formation by the
method best suited to soil and situation, and in careful tending of
the woods.
In the higher regions, where experience has shown the danger
of breakage to be greatest, the cultivation of the brittle Scots Pine
should be avoided, a preference being, in general, given to the
formation of mixed forests, and in particular to an admixture of
broad-leaved species (Beech) wherever possible in coniferous woods,
which are those most apt to suffer, for the passage of the snow to
the ground is thereby assisted, as well as by the varying nature and
level of the canopy in mixed forests. The formation of crops by
means of planting at moderate distances has shown itself to be pre-
ferable to sowing, or to the planting of seedlings in wisps. But the
most important preventive measure undoubtedly lies in the proper
tending of the timber-crops. When thinnings are begun early,
carefully carried out, especially at first, and frequently repeated,
the density of the canopy becomes moderated, thereby rendering
the passage of snow to the ground easier on the one hand, and on
the other favouring a more equally balanced branch-development,
and a speedier and sturdier growth of the dominating poles. But
such thinnings should be very carefully conducted in crops that
have grown up in dense canopy, in which the stems have been
rapidly drawn up, and have consequently acquired little power of
resisting pressure. 1
Under exceptional circumstances, as in parks, ornamental
plantations, small thickets of valuable species, and the youngest
class of standards in copse, the snow can be got rid of by means
of shaking, or by knocking against the stem ; but on any very
extensive scale such a measure can, of course, find no practical
application.
1 Begin early ; conduct moderately ; repeat frequently. Such is the golden rule for
thinning. Light-demanding species of course require more assistance in their natural
struggle than shade-bearing trees. Trans.
