30 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
19. Remedial Measures after the Occurrence of Damage.
When damage from snow-accumulations has taken place on a
large scale in any forest, the duty of the forester lies partly in the
expeditious utilisation and advantageous disposal of the timber
thrown, and partly in the judicious treatment of the damaged
crops, in order that the permanent effect on their future well-being
may be reduced to a minimum.
In respect to the former, some consideration must be given to
the opening out of roads and rides, so that the forest is well
opened out for the extraction of the damaged timber, and to the
immediate removal of broken trees and ends in such crops as are
being reproduced naturally, as without this the young crop is very
apt to suffer damage. In order to obviate danger from insects,
and deterioration in the quality of the broken timber, it should be
prepared for sale with the utmost despatch, as much as possible
being ranged in the class of timber for technical purposes, both
with a view to the realisation of better prices, and because it
takes less time to prepare for sale than fuel which has to be cut
in lengths and stacked in fathoms. Where the damage is con-
siderable, and the quantity of wood to be prepared for sale is very
large, the commencement of utilisation is made with the timber
that has been completely thrown, and the stems and poles that
have been entirely broken ; whilst such other stems as have a few
green branches left, and can still continue for a short time in
active vegetation, need not be attended to until the more pressii
work is ended. The best means of preserving and seasonii
coniferous stems, for which there is often no good immedij
market, consists in stripping off' all the bark, which at the
time, also protects them from attacks of bark-beetles (Scolytidce]
removing them to broad roadways or other airy places, in splittii
up large fuel-pieces, so that they may get rid of their moistui
sooner, and in placing suitable rests below timber and fuel-st
to keep them free from contact with the soil.
With regard to the treatment of damaged crops, those of bi
leaved species (Beech) which are just emerging from the thicket in!
the pole-forest stage of growth, can sometimes be aided by raisii
again and supporting by props and poles the patches that have
bent down, or by tying up the dominating poles and connectii
them with a neighbouring older crop. But otherwise, when th<
