32 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
avalanches for they can never have their origin in the interior
of woodlands and of forming a protecting dam or obstruction
to their downward progress when once they occur on their initial
small scale above the wooded areas. These are termed Ban- Wdlder.
The constant maintenance of a sufficient number of trees on
the area, avoidance of a clear fall of timber, prudent selection of
only mature and damaged timber for extraction and utilisation,
careful reproduction of the crop, and the judicious use of artificial
methods to aid and assist the work of natural regeneration are
advisable, not only in the interest of the forest itself, but also of
the pastures, arable land, &c., lying below the woodland tracts.
The re-wooding of areas whose crops have been destroyed by
avalanches is a matter of extreme difficulty, as the latter are apt
to form again annually ; hence all the greater necessity for pru-
dence and caution in maintaining the existing woodlands. All
such protective forests are everywhere on the continent under the
direct protection, supervision, and treatment of the State Forest
Department.
C. HOAR-FROST, ICE, HAIL.
21. Damage done ~by the Same.
Accumulations of pendent ice on the branches and twigs also
occur less frequently in lower-lying tracts than at higher elev*
tions, and take place principally on northern and eastern exposui
as they are mostly produced by cold north and east winds. Tl
species chiefly exposed to danger from this cause are the evergr*
conifers, especially the Scots Pine, with its long foliage affordinj
an easy foot-hold on which the ice may accumulate, and its britt
branches, little able to resist the weight tending to snap them oi
Among broad-leaved species the brittle Alder is the princi]
sufferer, and next to that perhaps the younger classes of Of
standards in copse, when the crowns are still covered with tl
dead, dry foliage. Semi-mature crops, and those approachii
towards maturity, are more apt to be damaged than the younj
age-classes; whilst isolated trees, young standards in copse, old
trees retained throughout a second period of rotation, and trees at
the edges of the woods, offer more opportunities for the accumula-
tion of ice, and consequently suffer more by reason of it, than
regular crops growing in close canopy.
