34 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
CHAPTER III.
DAMAGE CAUSED BY AERIAL CURRENTS.
22. Damage done ~by Storms.
Violent movements of aerial currents are commonly called
Storms, and those of still greater violence Hurricanes. 1 Sometimes
they are merely of a local character, but at other times they
make their influence felt over large areas, and either come from
a certain definite direction as continuous storms, or have a more
or less circuitous movement as in cyclones. Most of the storms
in Great Britain come from the west, north-west, or south-west,
and their injurious influence is increased by the fact that they
are frequently accompanied by rainfall, and either loosen the
soil, or find it in soft, wet condition, which materially weakens
the resistive power of the trees, whilst the less frequent and
usually less violent east winds generally bring drought or fi
along with them. Violent disturbances of the atmospheric
rents are most usual about the time of the spring and auti
equinoxes, and the periods immediately connected therewith.
During violent storms, not only individual trees but also whole
woods are either rendered windfall by being torn out by the
roots and thrown to the ground, or suffer wind-breakage by being
snapped through at a greater or less height above the base;
whether windfall or breakage is more likely to take place depends
on the species of the tree, the nature of the soil, the general health
of the stem, &c. The damage done is sometimes confined to indivi-'
dual trees, but not infrequently extends, in the case of very violent
storms, over whole crops or portions of crops, and in the latter case
takes place in scattered patches or plots, or else in strips or lanes.
The disadvantageous consequences which can ensue to a forest
1 Aerial currents shown by the anemometer to have a velocity up to 66 feet (2(
metres) per second are classified as Winds ; those whose velocity is from 66 to 116 fee
(36 metres) as Storms ; those beyond 116 feet (35 metres) per second as Hi(
ana
=
