DAMAGE CAUSED BY AERIAL CURRENTS. 39
The Fall of mature Crops should always be begun from the side
opposite to the direction of the prevailing winds ; as has already been
remarked, the most frequent and violent stormy winds come from
west, north-west, and south-west, so that the annual falls should be
commenced on the east side, and conducted in such manner that
the line of clearance runs north and south (or from north-west to
south-west), the succession of annual falls advancing gradually in
the direction of the prevailing wind, under the lee and protection
! of the close canopied crops of slightly younger age. For coniferous
forests especially, attention to this rule is of essential importance.
Further, whilst harvesting mature timber crops, care should be
taken to avoid the sudden exposure of younger crops that have hitherto
lain in their lee, but are of an age liable to be damaged by storms.
In order to obtain a properly regulated and judicious allocation of
the successive annual falls of timber, it is not infrequently neces-
sary to delay the utilisation of older crops, and harvest younger
ones somewhat prematurely when the Working Plan is formed
and being worked for the first time.
One method of making such younger crops independent of the
protection of older crops lying to windward of them, is the system
of cutting free or strengthening, extensively practised in the Thtiringer
Wald. This consists in making a clear fall of timber in the older
crop along a narrow strip from 33 to 50 feet broad, drawn between
the sheltering wood and the younger one protected by it, and at
i right angles to the direction of the prevailing storms ; the object
is here to afford the younger crop the opportunity of developing a
stronger root- system and more branching growth of the trees near
the edge, and of thus naturally forming a protective belt strong
enough to resist successfully the effects of stormy winds when the
older crop is cleared away. An essential condition for the success
of this system of cutting young woods free is that it must take
place during the pole-forest stage of growth, whilst the younger
crop is still endowed with the capacity of clothing itself with a
thicker mantle of foliage. The cleared strip in the older crop
should be at once replanted, so as likewise to form an artificial
I can be protected against storms by judicious allocation of the annual falls and arrange-
j ment of the crops, whilst in the latter case there are three sides to protect, namely
on the west, south, and north. This proposal, which is approved of by Borggreve
! in his work on the Management of Forests, is quite rational, but unfortunately comes
too late to be applied in the case of any of the forests which have already been sub-
I divided and formed into compartments under the old system.
