40 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
belt when the former is cleared away. Although undoubtedly
sound in principle, this system of strengthening young crops by
cutting them free from the shelter of older woods has, up to the
present, not enjoyed any very extensive or general adoption.
When fixing the period of rotation of a forest, that is to say, the
particular age at which any crop shall be utilised, it should be
borne in mind that, with increasing age, the danger from storms
is also essentially increased, and particularly that the number of
sickly and rotten stems gets larger as the crop grows older, and con-
sequently tends likewise to augment the danger from stormy winds.-
Two other methods may also be mentioned here in conclusion,
which have as yet found application only exceptionally, but have
hitherto proved useful, namely the lopping of the crowns of trees
at the edge of the wood, and forming stone walls or heaping stones
along the ground above the roots on the outer edge. The applica-
tion of these means is based on the observation that storms are
especially destructive wherever they have formerly formed blanks
in the crops, so that it is essentially important to try and secure
the stability of the trees at the windward edge of such blanks
and interruptions of the canopy ; and this security of the trees at
the edge has practically been attained in Spruce woods with shallow
root- system, by loading the roots on the windward side with a
heavy mass of stones. A couple of strong poles were first of all
placed over the roots, then cross pieces of 3^- feet along the poles,
and again a couple of long poles, and on this framework large
stones and bits of rock lying about on the ground were piled
up to a height of 1| to 3j feet. The windward trees and those
immediately behind them were at the same time lopped at one-
third of their height above the ground, so as to shorten the lever-
age obtainable by the wind ; a similar measure was carried out on
several individual trees standing further back, but towering high
above their neighbours. As already remarked, the success of both
measures was highly satisfactory.
25. Remedial Measures after the Occurrence of Damage.
The chief measures to be adopted after considerable damage
has been caused by a storm are, so far as concerns the utilisation
and disposal of the timber, and the treatment to be accorded to
the damaged crops, in the main the same as have already been de-
