DAMAGE CAUSED BY AERIAL CURRENTS. 41
tailed in regard to damage done by accumulations of snow (see par.
19). In the case of storms, however, there is this more favourable
circumstance, that the windfall timber is generally older, of larger
dimensions, and therefore easier to prepare for sale, and more likely
to fetch a fair market price, than in the case of damage done by
snow, when young crops and pole forests are chiefly injured.
But it must be particularly mentioned that in preparing the
windfall timber for sale, attention should first of all be paid to the
speedy removal of the parent standards which have been thrown on
areas undergrowing natural reproduction, as they are often blown
down in large numbers, and are very apt to kill any young seedling
crop on the ground, if they are left lying for any length of time. If
the quantity of timber thrown is so large as to forbid its immediate
clearance, the windfall trees should at any rate be immediately
topped, the branches and brushwood being removed to the roads
and rides, and piled along the edges of the compartments.
Similar remarks also apply in the case of standards that have been
retained to grow in girth for another period of rotation, along
with the younger crop forming the underwood. Where the trees
thrown have been torn out of the ground with huge masses of
earth attached to the roots, efforts should be made to kip or tilt
these back into their former position after sawing through the
stems, especially when numerous seedlings are noticeable in the
soil thus lifted up, as the latter can easily be saved by this means.
The greatest attention is here also necessary in respect to in-
jurious insects, the danger from which can best be obviated by
working up the windfall timber as fast as possible, by removing
the bark from all the coniferous stems thrown, by grubbing up
the stumps, &c.
26. Evil effects of Winds ; Preventive Measures.
It is not only the more violent storms that can do damage to
forests, for continuous winds blowing always from about the same
direction, though less violent in character, can also have a dis-
tinctly injurious effect on the well-being of woodland crops.
Among such effects may be first of all noted the blowing away of
the dead foliage near the edges of woods and of their compartments,
and from exposed knolls and ridges ; this hinders the formation of
humus or vegetable mould, and dries up, hardens, and exhausts the
