42 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
soil in some places, whilst in others it occasionally causes the dead
leaves to be piled up to such a depth as to be positively injuri-
ous. All kinds of broad-leaved woods, Oak and Beech, high forest
and coppice, are very sensitive to the blowing away of the dead
foliage from the soil, and speedily show this in backward growth.
But on the actual vegetation itself, continuous winds from any
particular direction also exert their influence, as may be noted in
abnormal, malformed crown-tops, lop-sided, rugged development of
the crown, and crooked growth of the trees in the vicinity of the
sea, or on lofty exposed heights.
Besides that, dry east winds exert a further injurious influence
by exhausting and withdrawing from the soil the supply of mois-
ture so necessary for the well-being of woodland growth, whilst at
the same time stimulating the plants to an increased evaporation
which tends to result in their withering (wilting) and drying up.
These dry winds are most to be feared in spring, while sowing and
planting operations are being carried out, and immediately after
the cultural season.
The means at our disposal for the prevention of such injurious
effects include the following :
The Formation of Protective Belts or Fringes along the edge of
woods and skirting threatened crops in the interior of the forest,
a measure which can, perhaps, best be attained by planting several
rows of the thickly foliaged and shade-bearing Spruce. Wh(
it appears possible or likely to succeed, the underplanting
patches or clumps exposed to danger with shade-bearing specie
(Beech, Hornbeam, Spruce, Silver Fir) is also of great advanl
Limitation of the thinnings along the edge of the wood,
retention of all undergrowth and spontaneous natural reproduc
tion, both near the edges and in the interior of woods exposed
danger. Hedges skirting woodlands should be carefully tended ai
trimmed in order to increase the density of their foliage.
The turning up of coarse clods near the outskirts of the woods
means of hoes and similar instruments also acts beneficially
retaining the layer of dead leaves and the soil-moisture. Shoul
planting have to be carried out during dry east winds, particul
care must be taken to keep the roots of the seedlings and tl
planting-pits moist, the former being wrapped up in wet moss
dipped in thin loamy mud, the latter being only formed, if possibl
immediately before the planting takes place.
