46 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
oxycoccos and V. uliginosum), and Marsh Cistus (Ledum) 1 indicate
true bogs or swamps.
Essentially important as a certain degree of soil-moisture un-
doubtedly is for the thriving of woodland crops, yet too great a
degree of moisture produces many disadvantageous results.
Most species of our forest trees have a bad, often a crippled,
development on wet soils, in consequence of the want of due
circulation of air in the soil (deration), of its low temperature, of
the incomplete decomposition of the organic debris, and the for-
mation of free humic and similar injurious acids.
Owing to the strong evaporation, damage from frost is especially
frequent in wet localities, resulting in the dying off of the tender
portions of the plants, and in the lifting of the soft soil and
the consequent death of the seedlings or transplants ; this danger
can, on very moist soil, assume such proportions as even to lift
out of the ground the stronger, larger classes of transplants that
have been put out with balls of earth attached to the roots.
On old stems, and particularly in the case of the Spruce, the
appearance of red-rot and disease of the stool is very often
directly due to excess of soil-moisture.
Windfalls are also much more frequent on soils that are
constantly soft from moisture, especially when a clayey layer,
the cause of the wetness, at the same time prevents the roots oi
the trees from working their way down into the subsoil. Tl
ordinary operations of forestry, and particularly the preparation
and removal of timber for disposal, are also considerably interfered
with when the soil is always wet, so much so, in fact, as to
only carried out during, and often to be practically dependent on,
continuous hard frost during the winter (e.g., massy Alder crops).
But all species of trees are not affected to anything like
similar extent by wetness of the soil and the drawbacks con-
sequent thereon. Thus, the common Alder and the majority of
the Willow tribe can not only bear, but actually prefer, a high
degree of moisture, whilst a few species of Poplar, and also Ash
and Hazel in a less degree, can thrive quite well even on a very
moist soil ; but in all these cases it is always moisture in circula-
tion, and not stagnating moisture, which suits them. Among
conifers the Spruce can stand a high percentage of moisture in
the soil better than any other species.
1 According to Hooker's Flora, it is doubtful if Ledum occurs in Britain. Trans.
