DISADVANTAGES FROM UNFAVOURABLE SOIL, &C. 47
29. Eemedial Measures ; Principles of Drainage.
In order to counteract excess of moisture, and to succeed in
obviating its injurious consequences, the predisposing cause of the
wetness must first of all be ascertained.
Should this be occasioned by the exit of subterraneous springs
without any proper channel for the off-flow of the water, these
should have proper basins dug round their mouths, and the water
should then be drained off by means of ditches.
If, on the other hand, the wetness is due to impermeable sulsoil,
this can also easily be remedied, if the gradient be sufficient, by
means of ditches conducting to any lower but not very distant
water-level ; should, however, such difference of level not make
itself apparent, the task of carrying off the surplus moisture is
increased in difficulty, but can still be arranged for by boring a
passage for the water through to the subsoil, or by lowering the
water level by means of ditches. When the impermeable
stratum (of plastic clay, moorpan, ironband, &c.) is only of slight
depth, and the swampy tract of moderate extent, the water can
be conducted to the subsoil by tapping or boring through the
impermeable layer at its deepest point; the hole made should
not be too small, and should be covered over with large stones to
prevent it being soon choked with silt. In many other places 1
the water-level is reduced by digging over the whole area, ditches
of sufficient depth, and not too far apart, and allowing the water
to collect in them ; and as at the same time the out-throw from
the ditches is distributed regularly over the intervening spaces
between these, the surface of the soil is thus .artificially raised to
a considerable height, and the intended sowing or planting can
take place favourably on these raised banks or beds.
Inundations can be prevented by the facing and banking up of
the sides of small brooks and streams, by clearing the river-beds
of accumulations of silt, by increasing the gradient through cut-
tings and corrections of the water-courses, most of which, how-
ever, are works going beyond the proper sphere of the forester.
The following may be considered the main principles of
drainage. Only the excess or surplus of moisture should be
removed from the soil, as too extensive depletion of moisture can
have injurious consequences, not only for the actual areas in
1 This is the general method of treatment of moorpan in Hanover. Trans.
