48 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
question and their vegetation, but also for their immediate vicinity
and their further surroundings, on account of the general sinking
of the water-level and the excessive withdrawal of the supplies
of necessary moisture. Many very unfortunate experiences have
already been made in this direction, in consequence of the too
rapid off -flow of the atmospheric precipitations, a too great drying
up of the soil, the fall of the water below the level necessary for
working saw-mills and other works, the drying up of springs, &c.
The water obtained from the drainage of elevated tracts should
be utilised, wherever necessary and possible, for the benefit of
lower lying woodlands, by being conducted along dry slopes, as can
also be done with the water collecting in ditches along the sides
of roads (see par. 12). The drainage of an unwooded area should
always be carried out some time before it is intended to stock it,
in order to allow the soil to set. The drainage of woodlands
should be conducted with great caution, and only to a very
moderate extent ; drains which pass through older crops, in order
to carry off surplus moisture from other areas, not infrequently
have an injurious effect on the former, owing to sinking of the
ground and consequent exposure of the roots, as in the case of
the Spruce, or even cause drying up of the tops of the crowns, as in
Alder woods.
In the planting up of tracts that have been drained, but are
still somewhat moist and inclined to a strong growth of ran]
grass, choice should be made of strong transplants of such suitable
species as are little sensitive to frost, which should be put ou1
during dry autumn weather, with balls of earth attached to the
roots, if necessary ; whilst for moist localities, tumping, or planting
on mounds or on beds as above described, is highly recommendabl<
30. Carrying out of Drainage "by means of Ditches.
The removal of surplus water generally takes place by me
of open ditches, and less frequently by drains covered with stone
or brushwood, or through pipes. It is essential that there shoulc
be a sufficient fall towards some adjacent pond or water-chann<
whose level under normal conditions is constantly, or at any rat
as a rule, below that of the water in the area to be drained,
the former case, the drainage can be carried out at any time withoi
difficulty ; but in the latter, water-gates or sluices must be foi
