DISADVANTAGES FROM UNFAVOURABLE SOIL, ETC. 51
consequently at a cheap rate, or not, although, of course, such
stone-drains remain active for a much longer period.
The execution of drainage works by means of the subterraneous
pipes, which are so much employed for similar purposes in agri-
culture, will, on account of the much greater outlay involved, only
very exceptionally find application in woodlands. But at the
same time it may be remarked that very wide drain-pipes may
here and there be advantageously utilised in road-making in place
of the more expensive culverts formed of masonry.
B. DEFICIENCY OF MOISTURE ; DUNES, SHIFTING SAND, OR
SAND-DRIFTS.
31. Definition, Causes, Disadvantages.
Sand-drifts are composed of small particles of quartz devoid of
all binding or cementing (clayey) material, which, owing to their
minuteness and lightness, are apt to be carried from one place to
another by the wind ; they are consequently never stationary
at one spot, but keep continually moving about.
Such shifting sands are mostly, and in greatest quantities, to be
found skirting the sea-shore and along the banks of many rivers,
in consequence of the cementing particles having been washed out
by the water and deposited at the bottom, whilst the fine
particles of quartz have been thrown on the bank or shore by
the waves, and have, in course of time, collected often in enormous
quantities (Dunes).
Shifting sand is, however, also found inland, mostly on areas
which formerly formed part of the ocean, and whenever robbed of
its soil-covering and its protection, is liable to drift. Such inland
sand- drifts are common throughout the great north German plain,
stretching from near the Ehine to the eastern confines of Prussia.
Even when bound together by means of some vegetable soil-
covering, such soil is naturally very unremunerative, so that at best
I only small returns can be obtained from it by means of timber-
production ; but when once the sand is allowed to drift, in con-
i sequence of the soil being denuded of its covering, it at once
; threatens neighbouring fertile land, often buries it deep under
unproductive sand, and converts it also into sand-drifts, a
process that has unfortunately too often taken place over very
I considerable areas.
