52 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
Shifting sands are of special interest to the forester, not only
from the fact that most sand-drifts are dedicated to the production
of timber, but also because the retention or formation of wood-
lands on such areas is the best, generally indeed the only, means
of preventing the sand from drifting, and of binding the shifting
soil in order to protect neighbouring areas which have better soil.
And at any rate some return may thus be obtained from the land.
The binding of sand-drifts and the reclamation of dunes are
generally carried out by means of the Sand-reed (Arundo
arenaria), the Lyme-grass (Elymiis arenarius), and the Sand-
sedge (Carex arenaria). All of these are plants with halms
ramifying under the surface of the soil, and consequently suffer
no injury from being covered with sand ; but tree growth
(of Pinus montana) is also employed to a much less extent. The
binding of dunes is generally the work of men specially qualified
for the task, whilst the fixation of inland drifts forms part of the
duties of the forester ; in the following paragraph therefore, only
these latter will be taken into consideration.
on-
-> of
32. Prevention of the Occurrence of Sand-drifts.
The safest means of preventing the occurrence of new sand-
drifts is the careful retention of the soil-covering, whether con-
sisting of woodlands, or of weeds of any description.
If the area in question be wooded, and as a rule Scots Pi
is the accommodating species forming the crop in such cases,
the harvesting of the timber must take place with a due amount
caution ; any extensive clearance should be totally avoided, and the
fall should be mainly confined to the clearance of very narrow strips, 1
and not repeated, or proceeded with further, until the rewoodi
of the fall last cleared has been assured. The series of fellin
must take place in the opposite direction to the preva
winds, and each annual fall should be at once planted up witho
any delay. The grubbing up of stumps, the removal of d
foliage for manure, and the exercise of pasturage, leading
loosening of the soil, and loss of soil-covering, should all
more be guarded against, as the dead leaves are more urgen
1 Natural reproduction under parent standards, which has also been recommei
for such circumstances, can not be satisfactorily carried out on sand so dry as
be liable to drift.
