DISADVANTAGES FROM UNFAVOURABLE SOIL, ETC. 53
required here than in most other places for the formation of
humus, whilst the pasturage can really only be of very small
value.
When reproductive measures are being carried out, which can
most advantageously take place by means of planting, care should
be taken to avoid any unnecessary breaking up or loosening of
the soil, or removal of the soil-covering, whatever it may be,
as even the presence of heather, under other circumstances a
noxious weed, is welcome at the time of replanting.
33. The Binding of Shifting Sand.
Without taking into account the cases in which sand may be
allowed to drift in consequence of injudicious treatment, and
especially of want of caution in the harvesting of the mature
timber, natural causes, such as insect calamities, forest fires, and
storms, may also result in a sudden laying bare of the soil,
followed by drifting, and it then becomes the duty of the forester
to bind or fix them again.
In order to bring sand already in motion to a standstill, efforts
must be made to transform it into woodland, but this has its
special difficulties, owing to the mobility of the sand, which leads to
small seedlings being laid bare in some places, or buried under sand
in others ; hence, wherever the areas to be reclaimed are at all
extensive, preliminary measures must first be adopted to interfere
with the free motion of the sand, before proceeding to the operation
of planting up the tract.
This takes place either by covering the area in question with
sods, &c., or by forming fences or hurdles of woven twigs or
brushwood, or by a combination of both of these methods.
The covering of the sand with sods is either carried out com-
pletely over the whole area, or else only partially, the latter
generally being the case, owing to the greater expense involved in
the former. The material used for covering is either turf, peat
of little value, or brushwood. The first is either laid down in
strips over the area, or more or less like the pattern on a chess-
board, hillocks and bunkers especially being carefully and closely
covered, whilst brushwood (as a rule, only that of the Scots Pine
is available in such localities) is stuck into the ground with the
thick end turned towards the direction from which the wind
