DISADVANTAGES FROM UNFAVOURABLE SOIL, ETC. 55
&c., the object is more securely attained, and at the same time the
possibility offered of erecting the rather expensive lines of hurdles
somewhat further apart.
The commencement of operations is, of course, always made from
the windward side, that is, in general, from westwards down wind
towards the east.
It may be mentioned that on the island of Seeland very good
results were obtained by covering the sand with a thin layer of
loamy soil, which is certainly expensive, but much to be recom-
mended in the case of bunkers or other small patches particularly
exposed to danger. The loam is conveyed in autumn in little
heaps to the area to be operated on, and there becomes so acted
upon by the frost in winter as to be easily pulverisable in the
following spring, when it is scattered in a thin layer over the sand ;
during the next few years it binds this to a sufficient extent to
permit of Scots Pine, which may be sown or planted out, esta-
blishing itself in growth.
Another means, strongly recommended, of aiding the work of
wooding sand-drifts is the use of the Helianthiis tuberosus, a species
of tuberculous plant closely allied to the common sun-flower: it
makes very little demand in regard to the quality of the soil,
grows even on the poor sand-drifts, can easily be reproduced and
increased by means of its tubers, from which it throws out in
spring long flexible stalks of 7 to 10 feet in height, that sway about
in the wind without breaking, and that remain standing through-
out the winter. Thus, whilst this plant protects the soil against
the wind throughout the whole year, it is also able to protect the
seedlings planted out against insolation and drought, and to a
certain extent against the action of frost.
The wooding of the area should at once proceed hand in hand
with the binding or fixation of the sand by means of covering with
turf or erecting hurdles. The consideration of the most suitable
species of trees, and the most suitable method to be adopted in
the formation of the young woods, properly belongs to the domain
of Sylviculture ; but it may be briefly referred to here for the sake
of completeness.
Scots Pine seems, on the whole, the most suitable species, and
the one by far the most generally chosen in such cases, although
Birch and Acacia are also capable of thriving on poor sandy soil.
When the subsoil is moist, Canadian and Black Poplars, and a few
