58 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
The diseases which are occasioned by plants will be treated in
the second section under the chapter " Damage caused by Plants"
as more properly belonging there ; but in the following the other
diseases of woody plants will be treated of in the briefest possible
manner, some reference, however, being made to the preventive
measures that can be employed against them.
35. Diseases of more Common Occurrence, and their Prevention.
(1) Results of External Injuries.
Wound-rot, or rot in wounds, can take place, without the
presence and co-operation of fungal parasites, on portions of the
plant exposed to the air, in consequence of bruises, stripping of
bark by deer, scorching of the bark, and the like; although
fungoid growth, as a rule, finds its way into such weak spots.
The wood at the same time assumes a more or less dark colour ;
but when the process of decomposition has advanced further,
it resumes a lighter hue in consequence of the disappearance of
the dark humic solution. Through injuries to the roots, such
as are especially frequent in the case of shallow-rooting species,
and are caused by the extraction of timber, treading of cattle,
&c., rot can easily set in, which often works its way up into
the stem ; the brown patches noticeable on the stumps of mature
Spruce that have been felled are mostly the consequences of
such injuries. Covering the damaged places with moss or mould
stimulates the action and progress of the rot, and wood-ants
forming colonies often hollow out the stems up to a considerable
height.
Stripping of the bark by red-deer, gnawing by mice, or extrac-
tion of resin from conifers, likewise give rise to wound-rot, and it
may also be occasioned by imprudent or badly executed removal
of branches ; for if the branch cut or sawn away be too thick, and
the wound arising therefrom too large, the place may be attacked
by rot before it has time to cicatrise sufficiently. In such cases
the rot often works its way deep into the stem. The avoidance
of all injuries so far as possible, caution in the felling and
extraction of timber, avoidance of the removal of branches that
have already attained large dimensions, and tarring of the wounds
