THE DISEASES OF TIMBER TREES. 59
at the time of lopping branches, are the usual means of prevent-
ing the rot from taking place. 1
(2) Diseases due to the Influence of the Soil.
Stay-headedness, or decay of the summit of the crown, may be
the consequence of want of nourishment and moisture, or also due
to old age. In high forests of Beech it may be noted long before
the trees are mature, when the removal of the fallen leaves from the
soil has been continued for any length of time ; in forests of Oak,
in consequence of interruption of the canopy, and consequent
deterioration of the soil; in Alder crops, as the result of too
thorough drainage ; and on Oak standards also, as the effect of
being suddenly admitted to free enjoyment of light, warmth, and
air, which stimulate the development of the adventitious or dor-
mant buds along the stem. Decay of the topmost portion of the
crown in conifers is invariably quickly followed by the death of
the whole stem ; whilst stag-headed, broad-leaved species survive
it for many years. The preventive measures mainly consist in
the preservation of the layer of dead foliage on the ground, pro-
tection of the soil against deterioration by the underplanting of high
forests of lightly-foliaged species unable to protect it for them-
selves, moderate drainage confined to the removal of surplus
moisture only, gradual accustoming of standards to the freer
enjoyment of light and air, or avoidance of maintaining individual
standards at all.
Root-rot may also take place in consequence of stagnating
water and defective circulation of the air in the soil. Under
normal circumstances, a sufficient degree of aeration takes place
through the variations of temperature in the upper layers, through
| the infiltration of moisture charged with oxygen, and through
I diffusive processes ; but when the exchange or transfusion of
| gases is hindered, owing to the tenacity of the soil, or to its con-
| stant wetness, the roots of the plants are apt to be choked, and to
| rot away, as may be especially noted in regard to many young
crops of Scots Pine, in which case the rotting of the tap-root is
I particularly characteristic, whilst the shallower side-roots remain
1 In some of the public gardens of Munich, endeavours have been made to stop the
; further progress of rot, ensuing after the removal of large branches, by tilling up the
j holes with plaster and cement, in order to prevent the lodgment of rainwater and
snow, and to cut off the air. Trans.
