60 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
at any rate partially sound. This phenomenon is more seldom
observable in the shallow-rooting Spruce, and hardly ever in the
case of any of the broad-leaved species.
Drainage, removal of layers of moss hindering the penetration
of the air, and cultivation of other species less likely to suffer
from this special evil, appear to be the best means of obviating
danger.
(3) Diseases in consequence of Atmospheric Influences.
Frost-shakes and Sun-burn have already been considered (see
paras. 8 and 13) as consequences of intense cold and of the
action of intense heat on species of trees with smooth bark ; both
of these kinds of injuries are usually followed by rot in the
vicinity of the damaged places.
Cankerous diseases are usually caused directly by infection with
fungi; but on broad -leaved trees cold can also give rise to the so-
called frost-canker, which is characterised by fissuring and scaling
of the bark (usually near the ground), and by the formation of
excrescences which often also become fissured and scaly. They are
especially common on Oaks, but still require more accurate
observation and explanation.
The characteristic leaf-shedding of the Pine should also be con-
sidered under this heading, as in the opinion of many investiga-
tors it is due to the drying up of the needles, and to the action of
frost, although it must also be said that others hold it to be due
to a fungus. As this infant ailment or distemper of the Scots
Pine, as it has been termed, has increased to an extraordinary
extent during the last decades, so as in some localities to assume
the proportions of a calamity, and has caused very considerable
destruction in nurseries and young crops raised by sowing or
planting, its closer consideration may not be out of place here.
Under leaf-shedding is understood that peculiar disease of the
Pine in which the foliage of one to five-year-old plants often in the
course of a few days turn brown (unit) and die off, whilst in the
case of older plants, only the under branches show signs of IHMH^
affected. The plants attacked, especially the weaker ones, and
those growing thickly as in sowings, or one and two-year-old seed-
lings in nurseries, often die off to a large extent. Though the sturdier
and stronger plants recover to a certain extent, they are unfit for
