64 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
artificial formation of crops, have often to be overcome by a
special preparation of the soil, rendered necessary before sowing or
planting operations can be carried out. Especially in the case of
woody-fibrous weeds, like heath and heather, the soil is often
matted with a thick, close net-work of roots, which is alike
antagonistic to 'natural reproduction and artificial formation of
woodlands ; thus the costs of wooding or re-wooding such areas
are often considerably increased, owing to' the necessity of using
stout transplants in place of the cheaper seedlings, which might
often suffice under more favourable circumstances.
A dense growth of weeds also withdraws from the soil large
quantities of mineral nutrients which are practically lost for the
timber crops, when these weeds are, as is often the case, repeatedly
utilised for manure, litter, &c. ; the penetration of atmospheric
precipitations, and of light rainfall in particular, into the soil is
hindered, for no small portion of it remains hanging on the weeds,
whence it is rapidly evaporated again.
Quick-growing weeds, and especially grass, over-top young
timber crops owing to their slower development at the youngest
stages of growth, and consequently interfere with their well-being
through the withdrawal of air, light, and dew from them ; when
dying in autumn, the weeds are apt to overlay the young plants
to a considerable extent, pressing them down to the ground under
the weight of snow which collects on the top, and not infrequently
completely smothering and choking them. Creepers and twin-
ing weeds, like brambles, honeysuckle, and wild hops, often
completely cover the young plants, and gradually suffocate th<
or stifle them in their embrace. Some plants, like swamp-m<
can occasion excessive moisture in the soil, and give rise to tl
formation of bogs, with all their drawbacks, whilst on other pi*
and especially when there is a strong growth of rank grass, rapic
drying up of the soil takes place in consequence of the active
transpiration of the moisture held in the upper layers of the soil
plantations in which there is a rank growth of grass often shoi
these evil effects most. And in consequence of the rapid trai
piration taking place in spring, plants standing among grass
frequently be seen to suffer from frost ; whilst similar plants, no!
surrounded with a thick growth of transpiring grass, sustain n<
damage, although growing on precisely similar soil.
Injurious animals, like mice or voles, and certain kinds
