DAMAGE CAUSED BY PLANTS. 65
insects, also find a favourable shelter and abode in a dense soil-
covering of grassy tufts, in which the former make their breeding-
places.
Forest weeds do not, however, under all circumstances, exert
injurious influences, but can at times have their distinct advant-
ages. Thus, for example, they are of direct benefit in the binding
of the soil on very steep slopes, and of light soil like drifting-
sand, or in the protection which, if of sufficient height and
not standing too thick, they (furze, juniper) can afford to young
crops against frost and insolation. In many cases they also serve
as fodder, being harvested as hay, or utilised as pasturage on a
very extensive scale in many localities ; or used as litter or
manure (heath, heather, bracken, broom, furze, dry grass) ; or em-
ployed for technical purposes (sea-grass) ; or, finally, the fruits of
not a few are gathered and often collected for sale in enormous
quantities (whortleberry, cranberry, raspberry, brambles, juniper-
berries). Even the collection of grass-seed yields here and there
a not inconsiderable indirect return.
And in conclusion, it should be noted that certain forest weeds
can carry many a valuable hint to the Sylviculturist in respect to
the quality of soil and situation, for they furnish him with facts
enabling him to draw tolerably correct conclusions as to the
physical conditions, and partially also the chemical properties, of
the soil.
38. Factors determining their Growth ; Names of the more
important forest Weeds.
When close canopy of crops is maintained, and retention of the
dead foliage or soil-covering of moss is suitably provided for, few
forest weeds, if any, take possession of woodland soil, owing to the
iwant of light necessary to their growth. But when the leafy
; canopy of high-forest crops becomes interrupted and broken here
' and there for the purposes of natural regeneration, or when a total
[clearance of the mature crop takes place, with a view to artificial
: reproduction, a thick growth of grass and rank development of
i ! weeds often take place in a very short time; and a similar
'observation may be made in the case of crops whose density of
canopy has been interfered with as a result of natural causes, or
E
