66 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
in consequence of removal of the layer of dead foliage. Indeed,
it is extraordinary with what rapidity an area, hitherto free from
weeds on account of the shade in which it stood, is taken
possession of when once the area is cleared and laid bare,
a phenomenon explained by the extreme lightness of seeds provide^
with feathery crowns and similar means of facilitating transport,
by their capacity of retaining their germinative capacity for a long
period whilst lying undeveloped on the soil in consequence of the
want of a due measure of light and air, and by the carriage of
many seeds in the excreta of birds.
But weeds are not to be met with on every soil to the same
extent, or of the same species or energy of growth. The fresher
and more powerful (miiierally) any soil is, the greater the quantity
of the weeds is likely to be, the more energetic their growth, and
the greater their variety ; whilst their appearance on poorer soil is
more limited in all these three directions, so that sometimes one
single weed (like the heather) asserts itself as the sole or prin-
cipal species over extensive areas. The appearance of numerous
different varieties of forest weeds can always be regarded as the
favourable sign of a better soil, and particularly in regard to its
freshness. Climatic conditions also play a not unimportant role
in respect to the species of weeds likely to be met with, as the
flora of the mountains and higher hills is essentially different from
that of the plains and lower uplands. And in the same way the
degree of light enjoyed, whether full insolation or merely partial,
broken sunshine, is also of essential influence in determining not
only the species of weeds, but also the extent to which they
occur. Thus, for example, whortleberry thrives best and grows
most luxuriantly in a kind of half-shade ; whilst grass, heath*
and broom revel in the full enjoyment of light.
The forest weeds are partially herbaceous, dying off annually
as in the case of grasses, epilobium, foxglove, and partially
nial, with woody-fibrous stems ; and in this latter case they mi
either be plants that creep along the soil, like heath, heather,
whortleberry, or else shrubs proper, like hawthorn, dog-wood,
similar brushwood. And in the more extended sense, a number
quick-growing species of trees, apt to propagate themselves exl
sively where not wanted, are also reckoned among the forest we<
as, for instance, Aspen and Saugh, or even Birch and Alder ;
it seems preferable, and more correct, simply to dub them as soi
