70 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
Woody-fibrous shrubs should be hacked or cut through, or even
removed altogether from the soil, by means of a hoe or mattock.
Cutting should take place in the middle of summer, as at that
time the shoots from the stool are not only less in number, but
are also more likely to be interfered with in growth by the
frosts in autumn and winter, owing to the shoots not ripening
properly into hard wood. Blackthorn and hawthorn are apt to
give most trouble, both because of their reproductive capacity
from the stool, and because of their thorns rendering the task of
cutting them more difficult. When thoroughly carried out with
heaps of earth not too small in size, the piling up of earth
over the stools in spring, immediately after cutting, can often be
successfully applied, in the case of shrubs and softwoods, to hinder
the development of stool-shoots.
In seed-beds and nurseries a noxious growth of weeds can best
be prevented by a judicious choice of the locality, avoiding places
with damp soil, or near areas covered with young crops whence
the seeds of the weeds can be wafted by the wind, and choosing,
wherever available, old agricultural land free from weeds, by
prudence in the application as manure of compost formed by the
heaping together of all sorts of garden rubbish, as this often con-
tains a large proportion of weeds removed about the time of their
seeding, which should only be used after having lain for a long
time, and having been turned over frequently, and by covering
up the spaces between the rows of seedlings with leaves, moss, or,
if the spaces are narrow, with battens or split poles, in order to
offer a mechanical hindrance to the growth of weeds. Whatever
weeds make their appearance, despite these precautions, should
be removed by diligent weeding during damp weather, when they
can easily be pulled up with all their roots, so as to prevent their
at once sending out fresh shoots.
B. PARASITIC PLANTS.
40. Mistletoes, their Crrowth, and Evil Effects.
There are two parasitic plants belonging to the family of the
Loranthacece which are outwardly visible on trees, and especially
on a number of forest trees, and which obtain their requirements
