72 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
woodlands : the horticulturist tries to exterminate it by an early
clearance of the easily visible growth from his fruit trees.
Tlic Oak Mistletoe (Loranthus europceus\ injurious to Oaks and
Sweet Chestnut, and of especially frequent occurrence in Central
Austria, affects trees in a similar manner by producing excrescences,
often the size of a man's head, above which the stem or branch
sickens, and even dies off. Preventive measures for obviating
danger from this parasite are also wanting. It is not found in
Britain.
It may here be mentioned in passing that Lichens are not
parasites, but are merely to be considered a sign of damp air and
want of energy of tree-growth. With the very gradual thicken-
ing of the girth of the tree, and the slow peeling off of the bark
scales, the lichens have points of contact and places of abode
offered to them which would be wanting if the bark were smooth.
By stopping up the numerous lenticelles or air-holes of the bark,
through which the tree takes up oxygen in summer, direct
injurious consequences to the tree can however follow, and the
dying off of branches inside the crown, that are thickly covered
with lichens, may frequently be noted. 1 The horticulturist
therefore removes lichenous growth ; but this can hardly be carried
out in Sylviculture.
Ivy (Hedera helix) is also no parasite, for it derives all its
nourishment from the soil, and all the rootlets appearing on
stems and branches are merely supporting rootlets.
41. Fungi : their Evil Effects, and the Preventive Measures
adaptable against them.
Not a small proportion of the disturbances that take place
in the growth of plants, from minor injuries quickly healed n^um
up to such as lead to the death of the plant or tree, is occasioned
by parasitic, cryptogamous vegetable organisms, fungi t living in or
on the plants in questions.
Until the last few decades, this pathological branch of phyto-
logy had received extremely little attention, so far as concerned
the fungi parasitic on forest trees ; many of these were totally
1 In the Ccniralblatt fiir das gcsammte Forslwesen for 1889, page 275, a case
detailed in which the woodlands, in a damp mountain valley, with a crop of Spnir<
Larch, and Scots Pine, suffered to such an extent from being overgrown with eigl
apcies of lichens, that about 60 per cent, of the trees were dying prematurely.
