74 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
Preventive measures include the careful removal of all infected
plants from the seed-beds as long as the disease is only of
sporadic character, and avoidance of the use of the same place
again as a seedling uursery ; l but for the schooling of trans-
plants it can quite well be utilised, as the disease only attacks
germinating seedlings.
The Spruce Rust or Blight (Chrysomyxa, Abietis) occurs on the
young needles of Spruce, partially colouring them an intense yellow,
while the part not infected remains normally green. Up till Autumn
golden yellow puffed up pustules develop, which in the following
spring burst and scatter their sporidia over the new flush of needles.
After the emptying of the fungous pustules the needles fall off,
but any thing like serious injury to the tree is only occasioned
when the disease has continued annually for some length of time.
Special measures for counteracting the effects of blight are there-
fore not really necessary, but could in any case hardly be applied.
Similar appearances of rust or blight also exhibit themselves
on the needles of the Larch (Caeoma laricis), and of the Silver
Fir (Caeoma Abietis pectinatatg), and also on the leaves of. the
Willow (Melampsora salicina). The scab or scurf on needles
of the Silver Fir (Hysterium nervisequium), and of the Spruce
(Hysterium macrosporum), cause a browning and dying off' of
the whole needles, which are then very soon defoliated.
The scab or scurf on the needles of the Pine (Hysterium pinastri)
is a very common appearance, which not only makes itself notice-
able everywhere during the natural death of the needles, but also
extends by infection to sound, healthy foliage, and forms one of
the causes of leaf-shedding. This phenomenon has already been
noticed in treating of the diseases of trees, and other causes besides
this fungus have also been mentioned as occasioning it ; hence to
avoid repetition a reference need here only be made to the paragraph
in question (par. 35).
2. Fungi on the Roots.
The Root-fungus (Trametes radiciperda) is the most dangerous
enemy of coniferous woods, occasioning red-rot and consequent
1 Watering of the seed-beds with a solution of 4^ Ibs. of copper vitriol (blue-stone)
and 1 quart of ammonia in 60 gallons of water, has been recommended as yielding
good results.
