76 PROTECTION OF WOODLANDS.
that the disease was probably due to excessive formation of resin,
or canker of the soil. During the autumn the sporophorons
receptacles (mushrooms) make their appearance on the dead plants
Scots Pine, Spruce, Larch, Weymouth Pine, often breaking out
with their honey-coloured heads (pttei) in large numbers around
the stem of the plant, though not on all the plants attacked and
killed, and producing the spores that are carried elsewhere by
wind, animals, &c. On beech-stumps they occur numerously, and
with much larger pilei as edible mushrooms.
Although older stems also succumb to the attacks of this
fungus, by far the greatest damage is done by it in young crops.
Characteristic features of its occurrence are the dying off of the
plants here and there in patches, and also the rapidity with which
plants in excellent growth are attacked and killed off, after having
perhaps during the same year developed very good growth in
height. Thus damage arising from this cause is at once distin-
guishable from that occasioned by insects, drought, and the like,
when individual plants gradually succumb after a period of sickly
growth. Such blanks, often occurring in considerable number
and extending over large patches, may sometimes render replant-
ing and filling up of the blanks necessary for several years in
succession ; this should if possible be done with broad-leaved
species only, as conifers are more exposed to a recurrence of the
danger.
The best practical means of preventing the spread of the disease
appears to be the pulling up of the plants attacked with all their
roots and burning them, and the isolation of the infected spots by
digging small trenches round them about 1 to ij ft. in depth, so
as to hinder the extension of the mycelial filaments under the soil.
Careful collection of the larger mushrooms on old stumps is also
to be recommended, and none the less on account of their be in-
edible.
Tlie Oak-seedling fungus (Rosellinia quercina) attacks the roots of
young 1 to 3-year-old Oak seedlings, especially in nursery 1
and occasions fading and drying up of the plants. The i
appear to be woven round about with fine filaments, in the vicinity
of which the bark-tissue turns brown, whilst black pustules about
the size of a pin-head make their appearance here and there on
the main root. The further spread of the disease, which is favoured
by damp weather and hindered by dry, can be obviated by t.ln 1
