DAMAGE CAUSED BY PLANTS. 77
formation of small trenches so as to isolate the parts of seed-beds
infected.
3. Fungi in the Stem or Branches (in the bark or in the wood).
Canker of the Pine (Aecidium (Peridernium) pini, var. corticola),
often very conspicuous on young trees of Scots, Weymouth, and
other species of Pines, on account of the semi-spherical or oval
pustules filled with reddish-yellow spores, occasions the inspissation
of resin and the formation of pockets of it inside the stem, owing
to the action of the mycelium. In consequence of this the growth
of the tree ceases at these places ; and when this occurs to any
great extent, the whole of the tree above the infected part ceases
its vital functions. The dying off of the tops of old Pine trees
is very often caused by this fungus.
The Silver Fir fungus (Aecidium elatinum) occasions the
peculiar cankerous swellings that are not infrequently indeed in
some localities very frequently noticeable at a greater or less
height up the stem in crops of Silver Fir, mostly encircling the
bole, and known as Canker of the Silver Fir. The bark gradually
dies off from the excrescences formed, often of very considerable
size, and the wood is laid bare and begins to rot. This process is
stimulated and hastened by the advent of other fungous spores
(Polyporus) ; according to the place where the canker occurs and
| two or three cankerous places may sometimes be seen on one tree >
the bole becomes more or less unsuited for technical purposes, and
under any circumstances loses considerably in value. Such stems
often break at the diseased parts during storms.
Along with this cankerous disease there also very frequently
occur yellowish-green, loranthus-like excrescences or deformities,
like twig-clusters, on the branches of the Silver Fir, (called " witches-
I'brooms" in Germany), which are likewise occasioned by Aecidium
elatinum, although the connection of these two different forms of
disease arising from the same fungus has not yet been satisfactorily
explained. In the latter case the spores are developed on the
lower side of the needles, and the reproduction of the fungus, and
later on the formation of canker, is the result not directly,
i however, but by the assistance of some host or plant acting as go-
between, not yet discovered and identified. The spores are never
(developed at the cankerous place itself.
