138
If the current is off, the iron plunger in the evacuated glass
vessel (r is down and keeps the mercury in the horizontal side-
tube, allowing the main current to pass between the sealed in
platinnm contacts. A rise of a fraction of a degree causes the
large volume of mercury in the regulator C to make contact with
the nickel spiral, starting the 8 volts current and thereby lifting
the plunger out of the mercury in G. The running back of this
mercury interrupts the main current and stops its heating effect
very quickly, the heating wires being rapidly cooled, owing to
their position in the open space between the table and the perforated
bottom of the thermostat. Another advantage of this arrangement is
the automatic stirring of the air in the thermostat by the jets of
hot air rising through the holes in the bottom.
The back and front walls are double glass windows; the
latter can be lifted up, allowing the necessary operations to be
performed in the thermostat. These take only a few minutes. The
temperature in the inside is so quickly restored after shutting the
window, that the apparatus are practically maintained at the required
temperature.
As will be seen in Fig. 18, the potentiometer is connected by
thin wires, passing through the walls of the thermostat, with the elec-
trode inside, with the capillary electrometer, mounted on a box,
which contains an accumulator for its small lamp, and on the other
side with the working accumulator and the Weston cell, contained
in the third box.
As mentioned in part 5 of this paper, a direct estimation of the
concentration of hydroxyl-ions, or of poH, in 8 7o phosphate solu-
tions had become indispensable.
The principle, on which these determinations were based, was
the following:
By saturating a blacked platinum electrode with oxygen, an OH
electrode may be obtained in the same way as a H electrode is
made with hydrogen.
If 7tc be the potential of the calomel electrode with saturated KCl
solution and jro/^ that of the OH electrode, the electromotive force,
measured in the usual way at 27° is
C
E = jTc 4" -TOH = -^c + 0,0595 Log — ,
c
where C represents the concentration of OH, corresponding to the
electrolytic solution pressure of the OH electrode, and c the OHion
concentration. In such a cell the oxygen electrode is positive, the
calomel electrode negative.
