134
A second solution with a (liflfeieiit liydroxjl-ioii concentration f^ives
in the same way :
C
E' z= .-T, + rt'oH = ^c f 0,0595 log -
Therefore
c
E' — E = in'on — 'TuH -- 0,0595 log --
c
from which, substituting p^n = — log c and p\)ii= — log c' :
E' — E=0,0b9b(p\m -pon).
Thus, by measuring the electromotive force of the calomel elec-
trode, combined, first with a solution of known />oii, e.g. a Sörensen's
phosphate solution, and then with an 8 Vp phosphate solution, this
equation for E' — E gives at once tlie value //oh-
Determinations of this kind with two Sörensen's solutions gave
nearly the right value.
As is well known however, an OH electrode does not give at
all as constant and accurate results as a H electrode. The potential
of an OH electrode has always been found about 150 millivolts too
low, which fact is commonly ascribed to the formation of some
suboxyde of platinum.
This constant depression is, however, eliminated in our formula.
Moreover it proved possible to arrange the experiments iji such a
way, that the influence of the inconstancy was repressed considerably.
Some 10 c.c. of the liquid to be examined were introduced into
a small tube of about 1 cm. diameter. By dipping the electrode tube
into this small quantity a quick and thorough saturation with oxygen
could be obtained.
The oxygen, free from hydrogen, was washed in a bottle with
3 7o KI solution to keep back possible traces of ozone. It was
brought to the temperature of 27° by keeping the washbottle and
rubber tubing as well as the other apparatus (the same as used
for the pff determination) in the thermostat.
After oxygen has been through for some 10 minutes, the electrode
tube was lifted out of the liquid under examination and connected
with the calomel electrode as usual by means of the KCl-cup ; the
electromotive force was read within about one minute.
This process was carried through alternately with a Sökensets's
solution (usually 5,6 c.c. alkaline + 4,4 c.c. acid phosphate), then
with the 8 7o phosphate, and then with another Sörensen's solution
(9 c.c. alkaline -}- 1 c.c. acid phosphate). Imn)ediately after this the
same series of three observations was once or twice repeated. Every
estimation of the unknown pon was thus preceded and followed at
