J 37
out the analogy between cliemical catalysts and liglit. His conclusion
was, tiiat : "probably the etfects of increase of temperature, of light,
and of chemical catalysts in a reaction are intimately connected and
are possibly identical in nature". They all appeared to act by shift-
ing the equilibrium between "active" and "inactive" molecules.
SUMMARY.
1. The enzyme urease acts by a radiation, which is only absorbed
by its substrate, urea, and by H-ions.
2. The mathematical formulation of this conception is
.r
— d.v = ni dt ,
X -f nc
in which .i' is the concentration of urea at the time t, c the con-
centration and n the absorption-coefficient of the H-ioiis, ??i a constant,
proportional to the concentration of urease, if H-ion concentration
as well as temperature are kept constant.
Integration gives the formula
nc 1
log -f a?y = vit ,
0,434 ^ 1— V
in which a is the initial concentration of urea, and // the fraction
of a, still present at the time t.
3. By numerous experiments this equation is shown to represent
the kinetics of urease action at constant />// and temperature. It
explains the nearly straight lines of the hydrolysis in alkaline solu-
tions equally well as the practically logarithmic curves in acid ones.
4. Comparing equal concentrations of urease at varying H-ion
concentration, the constant m is found to be dependent on the />//;
i. e. the activity of a given concentration of urease is a function of
the pfj of the solution.
Plotting in as a function of /)h, the resulting curve is strikingly
similar to the characteristic curves for the undissociated fraction of
an amphoteric electrolyte as a function of /;//.
This connection can be formulated mathematically and leads to
the conclusion, that urease is an amphoteric electrolyte, whose
activity is greatest when undissociated. The curve obtained represents
the excess of activity of undissociated over dissociated urease.
5. This mathematical formulation leads to an approximate deter-
mination of the dissociation-constants of urease, which are calculated
to be not far from those of carbonic acid and ammonia.
6. The accelerating action on urease, ascribed by previous authors
