138
to carbonic acid, is shown to be non existent. Animoniiini cai-bo-
nate -f- carbonic acid form a povverfnl bnffer-inixtni-e, wliicii can
maintain constancy of />//, the indispensable condition for constant
enzyme activity in a urea solution during' hydrolysis by urease.
Fresh confirmation of the above formula for the I'ate of hydrolysis
is afforded by many experiments with this buffer-mixture.
7. The estimation of initial velocities of hydrolysis, equal con-
centration of urease being allowed to act on different concentrations
of urea at constant pu i^nd '?'» produces results, which appear
nnexplainable without the radiation-theory.
The lower the />//, the more these initial velocities increase on
increase of the concentration of the urea. With high p^ there is
first an increase and then a decrease on raising the urea concentration.
These facts are shown to be in perfect accoi'daiice withthe radiation-
theory.
8. The influence of neutral substances is investigated experimentally
and theoretically. Both decrease and increase of enzyme action by
the same substance are explained by the influence the neutral body
has on the dissociation-constants of water or of urease or of both
of them.
9. The hypothesis is put forward that urease radiation, weakened
by spreading or in any olhej' way, causes synthesis.
Experimental evidence of this is afforded by the fact, that at high
Ph, where the urease is shown to be decaying, reversion of the
hydrolysis is several times observed.
10. A second inference from this conception, that outside the
sphere of hydrolytic action around a urease molecule there must be
a region of radiation, weakened by spreading, and therefore of
synthesis, explains the fact, established by a series of new experiments,
that, diluting the urease concentration beyond a certain value, its
specific activity is decreased. For evidently the synthetic action of
nndecaying urease can only be manifested, if the spheres of hydrolytic
action do not intersect each other sufficiently.
11. A third inference, that in any urease solution, in which the
enzyme is decaying through the combined action of alkalinity, tempe-
rature and time, a synthesis of urea from ammonium carbonate,
proportional to the urease concentration, will be observed, is tested
experimentally and confirmed.
12. Description of an apparatus for the simple detertnination
H-ion concentration at constant temperature.
The determination of the hydroxyl-ion concentration, wdiich is
needed for the calculation of the dissociation-foi-mula of urease, is
