Zoology. — "On the phi/loyeni/ of the hair of maiiu)i(i/s'. By Prof.
P. N. VAN Kampen. (Communicated by Prof. Webkk).
(Communicated in the meeting of May 31, 1919).
In his work on "Die in Dentschland lebenden Arten der Saurier"
(1872) and later on '), in a paper in vvhicli lie rejects Maurer's
well-known theory on the derivation of the hairs of mammals from
epidermal sense-organs, Leydig draws the attention to the resemblance
between the structure of the hairs and the so-called thigh or femoral
organs of the lizards, which he considers to be a transition form
between ordinary epidermal proliferations and hairs.
Less attention has been paid to this remark than it would have
deserved. For the structure of the afore-mentioned organs, whose
function is not known (they probably participate in the act of copu-
lation) closely resembles in fact the structure of a hair in a sim-
plified form*): they are cylindrical rods, composed of horny epidermal
cells, and sunken into a follicle of the skin. They differ from hairs
principally by the absence of a cutis papilla and by the fact that
they do not show a differentiation in medulla, cortex and cuticle.
It is true that according to Maurer *) they are composed of two
kinds of cells, but the arrangement of these cells is quite different
from the one of the elements of the hair.
As not one of the hypotheses which try to derive hairs from
epidermal organs of lower Vertebrates and among which the afore-
mentioned one of Maurer, based on a large body of facts, is best
known, has been generally aknowledged (indeed, Botezat *) in his
review on these theories comes to the conclusion that none of them
can be maintained and that the hairs in the mammals independently
have taken their origin in the skin) it is desirable to examine,
whether the idea uttered t)y Leydig might contain perhaps a germ
of truth. Against a direct derivation of hairs from fenioral organs
it may be advanced that these organs among the recent reptiles
1) Biol. Gentralbl., XIII, 1893.
2) Leydig compares them, in my opinion wrongly, to a bundle composed of
hairs glued together.
') Die Epidermis und ihre Abkömmlinge. Leipzig, 1895, p. 212 ff.
4) Anat. Anzeiger, XLVII, 1914/15.
