141
only occur with the Lacertilians and with these far from generally,
often only with the male and, besides, always in a very limited
number. Elsewhere among Reptiles, organs in some degree compa-
rable with femoral organs are only found with crocodiles, where,
according to Voeltzkow's description '), they lie between the scales
of the back.
But, though it would be difficult to assume the direct origin of
the hairs from femoral organs, the question might still be raised,
whether there might not be a connection between them, in so far that
they have a common origin. If this were the case, their origin might
probably be traced most easily with the last-mentioned, more simply
constructed organs, which in this way might throw a light on the
origin of the hair.
The morphological significance of the thighorgans has been eluci-
dated by the research of Schafer *). This author not only confirms
what has already been recorded by earlier investigators, viz. that
with Lacerta the femoral organs of the male are most strongly
developed in the breeding time, but he emphatically points out that
in that period no keratinisation of the cells takes place. But of
more importance is what he found with Sceloporus acanthinus : with
this Iguanide no horny cells are formed in the organs, but instead
of them a secretion, which is composed "aus einer völlig zerfallenen,
dem Secret von Taigdriisen ahnlich sehenden Masse". Schafer comes
to the conclusion that the thighorgans are glandulae celluliparae,
related to those sebaceous glands, which are not connected with
hairs. Keratinisation occurs only, when the secretion is slow. In
connection with this conclusion the statement of Maurer') is of
importance, that with Lacerta the contents of part of the cells of
the thighorgans is of a fatty nature.
These facts point to a close connection of the femoral organs with
"holocrinous" cutaneous glands, and the conclusion that they can be
derived from such glands is obvious. The difference between them
is not great: if the fatty secretion in a sebaceous gland were
replaced by keratinisation of the cells, then a horny rod would
be formed, which would show great resemblance to the thigh-
organs. Now the eleidin, which appears with mammals in the process
of keratinisation, according to Maurer has a fatty character *), while on the
1) Abhandl. Senckenberg. Naturf. Ges., XXVI, H. 1, 1899.
«) Archiv f. Naturgesch., LXVIIl Bd. I, 1902.
') 1. c, p. 220.
*) GoETTE (Arch. f. mikr. Anal., IV, 1868) also describes the occurrence of
fat-globules in the young epithelial hair-gerin of the sheep.
