U2
other side it is known, (hat the cells of the sebaceous glands of
the Maninialia contain eleidin-granules and can even paitl}' undergo
keratinisation '). One must indeed imagine the sebaceous cells
to originate from ordinary epithelium-cells, which had already the
capacity of keratinisation and it is not surprising that this capacity
reappears now and then.
So the femoral organs of Lacerta have arisen from cutaneous glands ;
they have preserved the structure of those glands, chemically
however they are modified, in connection with the strong kerati-
nisation, which is chai-acteristic of the skin of reptiles in general.
If the femoral organs can be derived from cutaneous glands, one
can imagine the same thing in the case of the hairs of mammals.
Only in this case the differentiation has become greater and the
structure of the organ is more complicated, in consequence of the
more important function the hair has in the life of mammals. The
hair papilla is to be considered of secondary origin and to have
arisen in connection with the richer nutrition, which had become
necessary for the stronger growth.
But there is still another phenomenon that can be easily explained
by this hypothesis. The origin of the hair as a solid epidermic
thickening quite agrees with that of cutaneous glands, but also with
that of the femoral organs, according to the descriptions of Maurer
and ScHAFER. As to the thighorgans, the first author already directs
the attention to this similarity with cutaneous glands of the amphi-
bians, but attaches much importance to the difference between them,
which lies in the fact that the smooth muscular fibres of the glands
of the amphibians are absent in the femoral organs. In this point
I cannot agree with him : these muscular fibres, which in the cutaneous
glands are necessary for the extrusion of the secretion, are from
their very nature superfluous in the entirely horny thighorgans, and
so it is perfectly clear, that they have disappeared. And the same
is true for the hairs, where they are absent as well. Another point,
to which Maurer attaches much importance, is the peculiar arran-
gement of the matrix-cells, which appears in the very first origin of
the hair and of the dermal sense organ in the same manner. It
seems to me however that this arrangement may be explained by
the pressure of the surrounding cells upon the growing germ and
so in different cases may appear in similar circumstances.
Since the researches of De Meuere*) an attempt to explain the origin
of the hair must take into consideration their arrangement on the skin.
1) Cf. ScHaFEE, Text-Book of Microscopic Anatomy, 1912, p. 476.
«) Morph. Jahrb., XXI, 1894.
