149
liand is everywhere doubled by the superposition. In order to reduce
tiiis to the former value we diminish the strength of the field in
the combination to half its value. The density of the electricity is
thereby diminished in the same ratio, and iji the new ^eld 4 we
thus obtain precisely the same distribution and motion of the elec-
tricity as in field 1. The motion being periodical the energy-stream
in field 4 evidently gives a total radiation zero during a full period.
We have obtained a kind of stationary electro-magnetic waves.
Since the motion of the electricity in field 4 is identical with the
motion from which we started, it has been proved that evert/ perio-
dical }i)otio?i Of' electric cliarge.^ dllo/vs the assamption of an electro-
macpietic field nnthout radiation of energy. Without further enquiry
it is clear, that this proposition also holds, if the motion of the
charges is not exactly periodical, but consists in, say, a planetary
motion with a movement of the perihelion.
The question remains, whethei- Bohr's theory can draw any benefit
from the result arrived at, but it seems that such is not the case.
If the electrons in an atom were going round in the same orbits
for all eternity, theie would be nothing to prevent us assuming an
electro-magnetic field such as field 4. But the sudden transitions
from one allowable orbit to another cause difficulties. A simple
calculation shows that in field 4 the energy -density for large distances
1
r is pi'oportional to — , the energy of the whole field, therefore,
r*
becoming infinite. In consequence of this the change of' energy
associated with the transition of an electron has quite a different
value to what Bohr has to assume, and it does not seem to me
possible to make the two values agi-ee. The above discussion, there-
fore, hardly seems to have a direct bearing on Bohr's theory, but
it does seem to me to be of some use for obtaining a broader
insight into the question as to whei-e the difficulties of Bohr's theory
actually lie. The result to which in my ()|)inion it leads in this
case was stated in the beginning of this note and 1 should like to
formulate it in this way: the usual statement that it is inexplicable
why an electron moving in accordance with the quantum-conditions
should not radiate enei'gy, seems to me to be based on an assump-
tion which is not sufiicientlj' general. A more general conception
of the problem although unable to solve llie difficulty, seems to me
to put it in a different light.
Leiden, April 18, 1919.
