185
mixture will be obtained containing a greater or smaller quantity
of zincate-crystals. The formulae for such products are devoid of
sense and should consequently disappear from the literature.
Stability, preparation, etc. of zinc hydroxide.
It is generally known, that as a rule zinc hydroxide is obtained
as a gelatinous, voluminous mass. Now it was essential for the
present investigation to determine whether this phase has a constant
or a variable composition and to find out its stability regarding
ZnO. There are many indications to be found in the literature that
the hydroxides obtained in varying ways do not possess the same
composition. Euler ^) prepared from the nitrate hydroxides which
proved to have a varying solubility in ammonia. Hkrz ') and Hantzsch *)
point out the great difficulties involved in obtaining Zn(OH, \n a
pure state and specially the tenacity with which it retains sulphate-
ions. It seems, that it is easier to obtain a pure hydroxide from
the chloride or nitrate than from the sulphate. With the experiments
made to confirm this statement, I proceeded from pure ZnO, which
was dissolved in hydrochloric acid and nitric acid, upon which the
hydroxide was precipitated by means of the addition of the quan-
tity of ammonia calculated. If this precipitate is washed out with
boiling water it almost immediately becomes more gritty, heavier
and less gelatinous. After washing out a few times and following
it up by desiccation at 100^ the product appeared to contain only
0,6 Vo water. In conseqence of the washing-out the hydroxide is
converted into oxide already at 100°. Hence Zn{üH)^ at 100° is no
longer stable.
We then tried to achie\'e a pure hydroxide by washing out at
room-temperature. It appeared however, that even after prolonged
and continued extraction the products were still chloridic or nitritic.
Dui'ing the first hours of the extraction we observe a considerable
decrease in the concentration of the adsorbed ion, afterwards it falls
but very slowly. The following figures will further illustrate this
statement :
Hence it is practically impossible in this way to obtain a pure
hydroxide from the chloride. The products from sulphate and nitrate
yielded similar results and though it is stated in the literature, that
the nitrate-ion is much less strongly absorbed than the other ions,
we determined that even after an extraction continued for days the
1) Ber. d. deutsch. Chem. Ges. 36, 3400 (1903).
») Zeitschr. f. anorg. Chem. 30, 280 (1902); 31, 357 (1902\
') Loc. cit.
