187"
was a possibility that under special circumstances, a crystallized
hydroxide of a constant composition could be obtained. There are
some intimations in the literature, that Zn(0H)2 sometimes seems
to arise in a crystallized form. Thus Becquerf.l^) states that he
obtains the crystallized hydroxide by placing a zinc bar wound
round with a copper-wire in a solution of sicilic acid in causticlye.
In this process isometric octahedrons were formed, to which he
ascribed the formula Zn^OH)^. Various similar indications ai-e found
in the older literature though the observers do not agree as i-egards
the composition of the crystals '). Of late years the zinchydroxides have
been newly examined among others by Klein '). He distinguishes three
forms of the hydroxide; form A is most strongly soluble in NaOH
and arises by adding drop by drop ZnSO^-solution to a NaOH-solu-
tion. The analysis of the product dried at a normal temperature
yielded: 2ZnO.HjO. In course of time the forms B or C separate
out from the saturated solutions of A ; both would have the coui-
posiiion : ZnO.HjO, but B is sometimes obtained in tine crystals,
whereas 6' is always amorphous.
It is clear from the preceding that we need not demonstrate that
a constant composilion of the amorphous hydroxides is out of the
question. The water-percentage of these substances depends on all
kinds of factors: preparation, duration of keeping, etc.; hence a
definite formula for them is valueless.
The case is otherwise with the crystallized hydroxide. I really
found it possible, to isolate the zincliydroxide as a crystallized phase
of a constant composition. In doing so, I set about it in the following
manner: to 50 c.c. of a noi-mal solution of KOH, I added a normal
solution of zinc sulphate in di-ops from a burette. At the outset
the hydroxide forming immediately dissolves, but finally a point
is reached at which the liquid remains slightly turbid when
shaken. On vigorous shaking and especially on sci'atching the
glasswall and allowing to stand for a few iuinutes a heavy, sandy
precipitate arises. Grafting with crystals already obtained, appeared
greatly to accelerate the separation. On microscopic examination the
product gives an altogether homogeneous impression and it appears
to consist of very small, drawn-out bar-shaped crystals. They filtrate
very easily and contrary to the amorphous product, the crystals can
^) Lieb. Ann. 94, 358 (1855).
') Gf. among others Bödeker. Lieb. Ann. 94, 358 (1855); Ville, Gomp. Rend.
101, 375 (1885).
5) Zeitschr. f. anorg. Chem. 74, 157 (1912). See also Wood, Journ. Ghem. Soc.
97, 886 (1910).
13
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXII.
