188
be Avaslied out vei-y rapidly. On di-jiiig at 40° — 50° the analysis
yielded :
18,06 7„ H,0 ; 81,9J «/. ZnO (Theoretically for Zn(OH),. . . . 18,11 7, H,0
81,89 7, ZnO.
The concentration of the KOH-solution was varied t)etween the
limits of 4,0 and 0,1 normal; the concentration of the zinc sulphate
solution likewise; the crystals formed always were of the same
shape and composition.
Stability of crystallized zinc hydroxide toiuards zinc oxide.
The experiments .N"^ 26 — 31 of Table 1 give an insight into the
stability-relation of the crystallized Zn(OH), and ZnO. With No. 26
the solid phase was added as crystallized Zn(0HJ2 ; the mass was
kept for over a fortnight in the thermostat at 30°. It then appeared
that the crystalline Zn(0H)j had been entirely converted and
the solid phase consisted of ZnO. This was contirmed by the ana-
lysis of the solution and remainder, the point found falls on the curve
AB. So it appears from this, that at 30"^ the crystallized zinc hy-
droxide is metastable towards ZnO.
With a shorter equilibrium-adjustment it proved possible to deter-
mine the metastable solubility curve of Zn (OH)^. No. 27 was set
ij) with crystallized Zn (OH)^ and after =b 24 hours the solution
was analysed; the solid phase appeared to consist even then of
crystallized hydroxide. Conformable to this the zinc percentage of
the solution (c. f. table) was considerately higher than corresponds
to the curve AB. Numbers 30 and 31 have been executed in a
similar manner, here again crystallized Zn (OH)^ was added as a
solid phase, the solution being analysed after ± 24 hours. The
determined compositions of the solution again lie considerably above
curve AB. The points representing these solutions form together the
metastable solubility curve EF of the crystallized zinc hydroxide.
Finally the determinations N^^ 28 and 29 have been carried out
in the same solution, to which crystals Zn(OH, were added as a
solid phase. After about ± 24 hours th'e solution yielded the com-
position N". 28, Zn(OH)j being present as a solid phase. Whereas
after one day these crystals still appeared to be present, the solution
still being of the same composition, we found three vveeks later on
the composition N°. 29. All the Zn(OH)j crystals had disappeared ;
the point now found lies on AB, while the analysis of the rest
indicated too, that ZnO was present as a solid phase. Other circum-
stances being equal the solubility of crystallized Zn(0H)2 is conside--
rably higher than that of ZnO.
