198
this condition as restriction of the "Kombinations|)rinzip". That
there must somehow exist a restrictive condition, does not seem
doubtful to me.
That however in some cases the non-appearance of a middle
component can yet be ascribed to the observation, may appear from
the following example:
In my paper (loc. cit.) the ZEEMA*N-effect for /7'A" is given as an
octet without middle component, here as a nonet with middle
component.
My first statement was among other things based on the obser-
vations by Miller '), who has not found a middle component,
whereas Wendt ^) does find the middle component for the same
lines: "bei dem zweiten Begleiter ist die mittlere Komponente über-
sehen". (p. 559).
From this it may, therefore, appear that it is by no means impos-
sible that some of the observed types of ZEEMAN-effect are incomplete,
and that possibly some of the "superfluous" components found by
me will after all appear to be present on closer observation.
The outer components of Tl' H" are marked with a note of inter-
rogation. These components have been found both by Wendt (loc.
cit.) and Miller (loc. cit.), the distances to the middle component
are, however, somewhat smaller than agrees with 2f. The state of
polarisation could not be determined by Miller on account of the
slight intensity ; Wendt finds _L.
The other notes of interrogation are found beside Ucl. Wendt
finds for this ten components, whereas Miller has observed twelve.
The latter observer remarks here, however (loc. cit. p. 117):
"Die durch Khxmmern znsammengefassten Linienpaare liefen in
eine Linie zusammen, wenn beide Arten von Schwingungen zuge-
lassen waren".
When this is taken into account, the notes of interrogation may
be omitted, and s and — b may be substituted for them.
The 0-component has, however, not yet been accounted for.
Another factor that remains to be explained, is the state of pola-
risation of the components.
Though here for the anomalous ZEEMAN-effects, just as for the
normal triplet, the outmost components appear always to be pola-
rized X, 1 must confess that I have not yed succeeded as yet in
^) W. MiLLEK, Zeemaneffekt an Mg. Ga. u. s. w. Ann. d. Physik, 24, p. 105,
1907.
3) G. Wendt, Untersuchungen an Quecksilberlinien. Ann. d. Physik, 37, p. 535.
1912.
