which are the transmutated of the successive positive integral powers
of x: the latter functions exist according to 2 and belong to the
circle («). The above-mentioned theorem of Mac Laurin consists in
slating the equality of the transmutations T and P, in a certain
numerical tleld {a'), which is part of («) or identical with {((),
if the further condition is added, that the latter transmutation is
complete in {a') ^).
In this statement there is something unsatisfying, if we compare
it with Taylor's theorem for the Theory of Functions. The latter
asserts: "if a function, in a certain circle, has some specified proper-
ties (viz. a definite differential coefficient) it can be expanded in
Taylor's series in that circle". It is therefore not necessarj- to impose
further conditions on that series. Accordinglj' it would be desirable
that also in the Functional Calculus the theorem might be stated in
such a way that it were not necessary to impose any further con-
dition on the series P corresponding to the given transmutation T,
but that such conditions were implied in the properties of T. At the
time it was our opinion that this was not the case. But now we
are in a position to prove the following proposition:
The series corresponding to a no r m a I additive transmutation
represents a complete transmutation.
For simplicity we consider a circular domain {o) round the origin
as a centre and in this the infinite sequence of functions
l,.r, .r', ...,r"', ... (4)
to which, by definition, the infinite sequence of transmuted
fee' ?i' Sa • • • !5»i' Ky)
corresponds, the latter functions being regular in a circular domain
(«)• If we denote by f an arbitrarily small positive quantity, then
the sequence of functions
1, , , ... , ... .... (6)
derived from (4) converges uniformly to zero in the domain («).
According to a simple property of continuity (I.e. II, n\ 1 1) the
sequence of the transmuted of the latter functions, which, by the
additive property of the transmutation, is represented by
1) A transmutation P, represented by a series of the form (1), is called by me
complete in a domain (a), if there is a certain circle {p), concentric with (a),
such that all functions belonging to {p^ possess a transmuted, regular in (a). The
minimum circle (y?), which may be taken for (/?), I called, the domain correspowdingr
to («) (I.e. Vol. XIX, W. 6).
1*
