199
fnidiiig a simple rule for tlie state of polarisation of the components.
As regards the intensity, the supposition has already been expressed
above that according as the electrons jump from or to strongly
eccentric paths, the intensity of the produced components would be
slighter. It is to be regretted that the material of observatioji does not
allow us to (est this supposition in every detail, because the values
found by different observers are often contradictory.
MiLT.ER (loc. cit. p. 112) gives, indeed, e.g. for the intensities of:
/7 A 12 2 6 2 2 1
n' L 114 4 4 1 1
/7"A<1 4 8 4 <1
and from this appears a rapid decrease of intensity towards the
outer components, (with which my "superfluous" components, which
ai-e still weaker, are in good agreement). Also the fact that the
middle components are stronger, is in good harmony with this that
each of' the components can be produced by some different jumps.
This investigation can, however, not yet be universally carried
through on account of' the above-mentioned mutual contradictions.
The causes of these differences of intensity have been investigated
by Zeeman ^), but it can seldom be inferred from the |)ublications
of the different observers what circumstances have given rise to
their difïeiences in intensity, and which are the reliable intensities.
A research as discussed above will not be possible until this has
been settled with certainty. From the results of such an investigation
important conclusions might be drawn as to the correctness or in-
correctnes of the hypotheses given by me in this paper.
From what has been found so far I think 1 am justified in con-
cluding that there are indications to be found in the material of
observation for the validity of the "Kombinationsprinzip", also for
the anomalous ZEEMAN-effect. It is, however, not excluded that a
restrictive condition in the sense as given by Bohr (see above) causes
the pi'inciple not to be always clearly manifested.
At any rate I think I ha\ e shown that the "sequences" vary
separately in the magnetic field, and that the obsei-ved ZEEMAN-effect
is the result of the variations of the two sequences together.
In connection with this 1 am also of opinion that Bohr's equation:
h
keeps its validity in the magnetic field.
The Hague, May 7 1919.
1) P. Zeeman, Proc. Amsterdam, Oct. 1912 and Researches in Magneto-Optics
p. 94 et seq , Macmillan 1913
