206
is only a matlieniatical artifice, to which no physical meaning must
be assigned. Points P^, which in their movement were first c{in
behind compared with P^, and whose vector lay, therefore, at an
angle c^m on the righthand side of the time direction, will now be
as it were c^ni in advance of P^, and give a vector which again
forms an angle c^iii with the time direction, but now lies on the
lefthand side of it. The angle between every vector and the time-
direction being proportional to ///, all tiie vectors will reflect in this
direction, and the form of the fan, and with it the resultant, hence
the intensity, will i-emain unchanged. Hence for any instrument in
which light propagates normally, the intensity will be an even
function of the number of waves. In this absolutely monochromatic light
is supposed, because for compound light the intensity is no function
of the number of waves on account of the integration with respect
to m between definite limits.
Now we shall, however, also admit reflections against a denser
medium in the instrument. In this the phase shifts suddenly jr;
such an abrupt change of phase we shall call a phase shifting. Let
us suppose that some points P' of the instrument are illuminated by
rays which have undergone such a reflection an uneven number of
times. Their vectors now no longer make the angle c'li}, but the
angle c'm -\- Jt with the time-direction. Before P, gave a vector by
the aid of whose direction the time-direction was defined. When,
however, the point P^ belongs also to the points P' , its vector
will also turn over an angle Jt, hence obtain the opposite direction
from what it had before. As the other group of points of the
apparatus continues to receive normally propagated light, their vectors
continue to form the angles cm with P's former vector.
When we now define the time-direction anew, and do so as the
direction of the vector originating from that point P^ of the apparatus
through which the shortest optical way passes from the source of
light L to the point of observation Q, quite apart from all possible
phase shiftings, the time-direction will always be the constant direction
in the following considerations, with respect to which we determine
the position of the vectors. We shall again think it to be always
directed vertically upward. A reasoning based on this time-direction
will therefore hold both for the case that this point P, receives light
that has changed its phase, and for the case that normally propagated
light falls on it. We shall let the constants c keep their value, because
