207
the}' only depend on distances ; liowever cm need not be anj- longer
the difference of phase of the interfering rays, this may have
become cm -\- Jt.
After these extensive considerations, vvhich as will appear later
on, go to the core of the method, we proceed to the construction
of the fan in the point (3 in the case of two groups of points Pand P'.
A point P, and a point P/ give vectors which form respectively
the angles c^m and c\m -\- :^ with the time-direction. When we
now reverse the sign of m, the first group of vectors will again be
reflected in the time-direction ; a vector from the second will, however,
form the angle jt — c\7n instead of the angle jt -[- (?/??i with the time-
direction, and would, therefore, be evidently reflected in the pro-
duction of the time-direction. Ultimately all the vectors will, therefore,
again be reflected in the same line, through which the form of the
fan will remain unchanged, hence the value of the intensity will
remain the same, which latter is, therefore, again an even function
of m. The thesis may, therefore, be extended as follows.
In every instrument, in which the light can only undergo phase-
shiftings of a whole number of times jt, the intensity is an even
function of the number of waves when absolutely monochromatic
light is used.
The light fulfils these conditions naturally in all apparatus of
refraction, also generally in those which are founded on interference.
As will appear later on, through the suitable occurrence of phase
shiftings among others in reflections against metal mirrors the
intensity can also sometimes become a not-even function of the
number of waves.
Let us now consider the case of a beam continuously composed
of some frequencies. Suppose it to be possible to draw up a second
equation between / and s for a given parameter / by the aid of
one of the current apparatus, where we shall suppose a favourable
action of the phase shifting to be absent in the metal reflections,
which is actually the case with most, if not with all instruments
in general use. We can now easily show that the two quantities C
and S must occur in the same combination as in equation (4). For
if the new equation contains e.g. C, i.e. | fp (.r) cos 4 jt Ix civ, it won
Id
