208
contain J cos A:rt Jx for absolutely monochromatic light, for which
can also be written J cos 4: jrl (m — 7?iV But for single light the intensity
must be an even function in m, as we saw; heAice J cos 4:Ji l{m — m)
can only occur in that combination which reduces it to
J cos -An- Im, which is even in m, i. e. it can only be met with in
forms like:
COS AlJi Im J cos 4jr I (m — m) — ain An Im J sin 4/r I (w — m) Of
cot in Im J cos 4jr Ix — sin Ajtlm J sin 4jr Ix (8)
To extend reversely the formula of intensitjf for single light to
that for compound light we must substitute (f [x) dx for J in the
former, and then integrate with respect to x. The grouping (8) then
passes into cos 4n Im C — si?i 4: Jt Im S, exactly that of equation (4).
The preceding has therefore proved that none of these instruments
can yield a second equation between C and S which is independent
of equation (4). C and S can, therefore, not be separated from
their combination, it seems, therefore, that y (x) cannot be solved. ')
It is now obvious that the first thing to do is to examine whether
the function y (.t) can perhaps be determined, if the light in some
instrument or other can undergo a phase shifting a, which difTers
from 3t, it being of no consequence whether it is caused by metal
reflections or other phenomena. Suppose that part of these points P,
now marked by double or triple accents, receives such light. The
angles of the corresponding vectors with the time direction would
have to be c/'w, cj'm..., c,"m, c,"ni...., if the light travelled in the
same directions, but everywhere in a normal way ; now they are,
therefore, c"m -\- o: or c"'m-\- a -\- jt, according as on the point P"
') In passing we may remark that C and 5 do not occur combined in another
way in the formula of intensity that determines the distribution of intensity for
the echelon over the whole focal plane of the telescope. This depends for the dilferent
points on a parameter, which we might call I'. 1 have proved by a computation
which is left out here that this function of I' satisfies a differential equation of the
second order, in which only combinations of C and S of the kind as in equation
(4), to be taken for some values of I in connection with l\ occur as coefficients.
Thus the dependence between the intensities in the image of reflection of the
echelon and that in the image of interference in Michelson's interferometer had
been proved purely analytically. Though the formula of intensity for the echelon
could be greatly modified by the supposition that diaphragms of a particular shape
were placed before the glass plates, such a differential equation of the second order
remained of force all the same, and so the dependence continued to exist.
