20»
or P'" under consideration light falls that has undergone besides
the phase shifting u resp. an even (among which zero) or an uneven
number of reflections against denser media. Hence we have to deal
here with four groups of points, the classification of which will be
clear from the foregoing. When out of each of these groups one
point is considered, resp. P, P' , P" , P'", their vectors make the
angles an, c'7n -]- jt, c"m -^ a,c"'m -\- a -\- .^ with the time-direction.
The phase shifting is taken to be positive if it is a shifting back,
and negative in the opposite case. When m is now made to change
its sign, these vectors are now respectively reflected in the time-
direction t, the direction t' forming an angle jr with the former, the
direction a forming an angle « with the time-direction, and that
which forms an angle « + ^ with the time-direction, being a' in
tig. 4. Accordingly the vectors can be divided into two groups, one
of which is reflected in the line tt', the other in a line aa' forming
an angle a. As we have put a = jt, the fan will now probably also
be transformed, and the intensity will no longer remain the same.
This is therefore no even function now of the number of waves.
In such an instrument C and S will accordingly
certainly not appear in the formula of intensity in
the way of equation (4), which' can again be proved
via the intensity holding for single light. Now the
separation of C and S is therefore no longer fun-
damentally impossible, hence we are on the right
track to determine the function (pU). It is finally
noteworthy, that a phase shifting in the part LP
^^' ' of the light path LPQ will give the same effect as
one directed in the same way and of the same extent in the part
PQ, which remark will appear to be of importance for the inter-
ferometer of MicHELSON. In what precedes it has been supposed that
the phase shifting a preserved its value and sign in the reversal of
sign of m, it must accordingly be a constant or an even function
of m. Only an instrument in which it is a constant, i.e. independent
of m, will be of practical use to us. Our purpose is namely to
examine beams of the most 'divergent'' constitution, and it would be
impracticable to have to take a different phase shifting into account
for every kind of light. For this reason we shall e.g. not be able
to make use of metal reflections. On the other hand it will hardly
be possible to do without them, for in almost all interferometers
there occur silvered glass-plates or metal mirrors. This^difficulty is,
however, not so serious as it seems. When each of the^ four mono-
chromatic beams that illuminated the groups of points P, P', P", P"
