210
of just now, and wliicli liad ali-oady undergone tlie phase bliifting
discussed then, is besides subjected to a metal reflection, which can
take place for all four of them in exactly the same way, this will
mean for each of the beams a same phase shifting ^. This latter
does not deform the fan, as it revolves as a whole over an angle /?,
since all the points P have participated in the new change of phase.
For some four beams of other frequency the fan will indeed be
rotated through another angle ^' , but fans drawn up for different
frequencies, must yet not be composed vectorially, because two
different kinds of light can never interfere. Hence also when com-
pound light falls on the apparatus, metal reflections will have no
influence on the intensity, if each of the beams undergo them an
equal number of times in the identical way; this latter peculiarity
is always met with in the current interferometers for reasons of a
practical nature. The same thing applies for the phase-shiftings
which take place with total reflections.
We must, therefore, devise an instrument in which first of all
the condition of identical metal reflections and of identical
total reflections is fulfilled, but that besides has the property to be
illuminated for one half by rays which apart from metal and total
reflections, have undergone none or only phase shiflings of ^, and
to be illuminated for the other half by rays which apart from metal
and total reflections, have been besides subjected to an extra
phase shifting «, which differs from tt, and must be independent of
the number of waves; the rays of the first and of the second kind
must besides be coherent in order to be able to interfere.
When we now put the question what constant phase-shiftings we
have now at our disposal, we come to the following answer:
1. a phase-shifting of rr in case of reflections against a denser
medium ;
2. a phase-shifting of n, when a beam of light is narrowed to pass
through a focus ^) ;
3. a phase-shifting - forward, when a beam must pass through
a focal line ^).
The last two shiftings take place respectively in the focus and
in the focal line; the latter alone differs from rr, and this is the
only one we can therefore use for our purpose. We shall, therefore.
^) GouY, Ann. de Chimie et de Physique (6), 24. 1891.
