211
Fig. 5.
make use of two cylinder lenses, whose focal lines coincide; in fig.
5 they are thought with the descriptive lines nornfial to the plane
of the drawing, and we shall assume this position in all the follow-
ing figures. Lines thought above or in the plane of the drawing
will be drawn in fnll, whereas lines that are supposed below it,
will be dotted. Rays i-ecurring on the upper side parallel to the
plane of drawing (e.g. a), can never be bronght to the lower side
by the cylinder lenses, because
the lenses have no refractive power
in the direction of their descriptive
lines. Analogously for rays b under
and parallel to the plane of the
drawing. The cylinder lenses will have to be of snch a quality that
they do not disturb the phenomenon of interference.
It is not possible to place this set of cylinder lenses without any
modification into one of the arms of the Michelson interferometer,
because the light then passes twice through the system and the
resulting phase-shifting becomes
again Jt. Compare fig. 6, in which
the immovable and the movable
mirror are the two halves of the
instrument consisting resp. of the
points P" and P; the system of
lenses now lies as well on the
path LP" as on the path P"Q,
and we saw that phase shiftings
are equivalent in the two parts of
the light path, when their direction
is the same, e.g. when both are
directed forward as here, which causes them to join to .^. For our
purpose the inferometer of Michelson must, therefore, be modified.
Fig. 7 indicates how this can be done.
The mirrors of Michelson's interferometer have been replaced by
totally reflecting prisms, through which the advantage is attained
that the light goes only once through the lenses. As the two beams
undergo precisely the same total reflections, we need not take into
account the phase-shiftings appearing in this. When a ray which
has originated from a ray originating from the slit S on its reflect-
ion on the silvered glass plate through reflection or transmission is
resp. provided with the index r or d, the figure shows how the
reflected component Ir of the ray 1 leaves the apparatus immediately
by the side of the transmitted component 2r/ of another ray 2,
^
?^^
Fig. 6.
