212
when the rajs 1 and 2 from the points A and B lie in the same
liorizontal plane, and SA and SB make equal angles with the radius
SC, wliich passes through the optical centres. The rays 1 and 2
being coherent, the components !/• and 2d e.g. can interfere with
each other. The leaving rays can therefore interfere in pairs, and
as the rays which form such a pair, run immediately by the side
of each other, a sharp interference image will be formed in the
focal plane of the objective. Now this is not looked at, as usual,
with the ocular as magnifying glass, but the ocular must form a
real enlarged image of it, which falls outside the telescope, and of
which only the central part will be used by us. All the light that
has entered the prisms at right angles, will be focussed in one
point Q'.
In order to calculate the intensity in the point Q', it is convenient
to introduce a reference plane RR, determined by the following
equations :
ED=CO + PV , FG = HJ^LM .... (9)
which quantities refer to geometrical lengths, and not to optical
lengths.
Also the two following remarks will greatly facilitate the calcu-
lation of the phase-difference between the interfering beams.
1. Let the distance from the front plane to the opposite side be
-p for the immovable prism, and equal to q for the movable prism ;
then every ray that strikes the front plane at right angles vertically,
covers a path in the prism of the length 2p or 2q, according as
this takes place in the immovable or in the movable prism.
2. The system of lenses makes a plane wave again to a plane
wave, so that in fig. 5 the optical distance from A to A' is equal
to that from C to C' . Accordingly in fig. 7 the system of lenses
will retard the light as much as a glass plate of the thickness 2r/,
when the thickness of every lens in the middle amounts to d. Besides
jt
this retardation the system of lenses causes the phase-shifting —
forward, which on the other hand means an acceleration. In order
to get from C over the immovable prism to U, the light must pass
three times through the glass plate, hence cover a path 3 ö in glass,
and farther the paths of the following lengths in the following media :
DE in air, 2p in glass, {FG — 2d) in air, and 2d in glass.
The light that reaches the point U from C across the movable
prism, must also pass three times through a glass plate, hence it
must again cover a distance 3^f in glass, and further the following
