215
succeeded by the application of another slight change in the inter-
ferometer in designing a combination of the interferometers, in which
the quantities / and /' always diffei- a same amount, which can be
accui'atelj measured. We sliall further point out the way to determine
this difference, and then demonstrate that the fact that this difference is
constant enables us to work just as easily with tliis instrument and
to reach just as much with it as would be the case with the ideal
combination of the interferometers.
From the modified interferometer we should, namely, immediately
get back the original one, when the front planes of the prisms were
silvered. Accordingly the two instruments can be joined to one by
leaving the upper halves of the front planes of the prisms trans-
parent, and by silvering the lower halves. Let the line of division
between the two halves lie in the plane of the drawing, then the
rays that run above this plane, and have, therefore, been drawn in
full, are totally reflected and are joined in a point Q' , when they
sti'uck the prisms at right angles. Rays running under the plane of
the drawing, and which have therefore been indicated dotted, will
be reflected by the silvered lower halves, and collected by another
eyepiece K into another point Q^ when they too strike the prisms
at right angles. Strictly speaking we have here placed the two inter-
ferometers on top of each other, which was possible owing to the
property of the cylinder lenses of never bringing a ray that runs
above the plane of the drawing and parallel to it, under it. Rays
that intersect the plane of the drawing could, indeed, pass from one
instrument into the other, but these are not joined in the points Q
or Q' , and it will appear, that we have to measure the intensity
only in these points. Moreover the front plane of every prism can
be divided into three regions, the top one transparent, the middle
one absorbing, and the bottom one silvered, through which, as it
were, a space arises between the two interferometers, depending on
the height of the middle region. The upmost and the downmost
regions must remain large, as all the incident light that strikes at
right angles is concentrated in the points Q and Q' , and we want
to have a strongly pronounced gradient of intensity in these points,
when presently the movable prism is shifted.
We saw already that the intensity in the point Q' was determined
by equations (12) and (13). The intensity in the point Q is repre-
sented by equation (4), in which / was the distance from the movable
mirror to the plane of reference, and for which, therefore, VT of
fig. 7 must be taken. We shall, therefore, call the length of VT I.
Summarising we find in Q' and Q resp. the intensities-
