220
2y = l, ill consequence of whicli ilie following equation is left:
00 00
X (m) = il {d) cos ijT Irn dl — I £1 (d) d)i 4jt Im dl . . (25)
""o
In this I id) and 7/ (c/) are registered functions, which are zero
for great values of / according to equations (21) and (22). When
we wish to examine the finer structure of practicailjMiionochroinatic
light, the Zand Z' curves for white light must first be determined.
The distance of the zero points iV and iV' to the initial points of
the curves follows namely sharply from this. The prism ie now
again put in the same place as before at the beginning of the
measurement'), and in another photographic plate the Zand Z'
curves for less compound light are now registered ; now the zero
points N and N' lie at the same distances from the initial points
as before; without the previous measurements they would, however,
hardly have been recognizable; for absolutely monochromatic light
there would even have been no difference to be detected at all
between the maxima or between the zero points.
The white light, however, has as it were, gauged the photographic
plate. A procedure as described above is lendered possible through
the fact that the zero points are known, even for the most strictly
monochromatic light, and it enables us here too at least to closely
approximate the required function x(w). In practice this approximation
cannot be carried to an extreme, because at too great differences
of path the beams of light become incoherent on account of the
irregular vibration of the source of light, a drawback that will
adhere to every method that rests on interference.
This limit for the dissolving power of an interferential spectros-
cope, can of course not be exceeded here either. But all the data,
with which interference phenomena can furnish us about the com-
position of apparently monochromatic light are used mathematically
in the simplest way according to the method discussed, and lead
to the drawing up of a function, which resembles the required
distribution of energy u{^') most closely*).
MiCHELsoN first works up his data to a curve of visibility V, and
concludes from this to the value of C" -|- /S', but has now to assume
/S=0, i.e. a symmetrical distribution of energy in order to be able
1) In this use can eg. be madeof the distinct movement of the photographic plate.
') To make the approximation still closer, we should have to make the source
of light vibrate more regularly, or possess an entirely different instrument, which
does not rest on interference.
