222
from two oni'ves that can be registered, it making no difference
whether the distribution of energy is a symmetrical or an asjni-
metrical function ; in the former case the registered curves are
mutually dependent, in the latter case they are independent.
It is noteworthy that the metal reflections in the instrument of
fig. 7 are not identical. The /'-component has been reflected against
the silver layer at an angle of 45° in air, and the (/-component at
a sjnaller angle in glass. Probably the pliase-shiftings occurring here
will be the same; otherwise Miciielson could not have drawn up
equation (4). If this supposition should be incorrect, fig. 8 represents
an arrangement in which this evil has
been remedied; the silver layers at if and
Z' are now only struck at an angle of
45°. Now the front planes of the prisms
must be transparent both at the top and
at the bottom, and the cylinder lenses
must be above the plane of the drawing.
The silvering in Z (fig. 8) and in C
(fig. 7) must be such that the intensities
of the light of the beams entering the
telescope are equal, in spite of the fact that one has undergone
reflections in the lenses. The intensities also can be kept equal by the
aid of a glass plate G *). When the intensities of the beams in' the
modified interferometer differ from that in the original one, one of
the terms in equation (25) must be provided with a factor of pro-
portionality, which is only to be determined experimentally.
We have scrupulously taken care that the inteifering beams did
not get a relative phase shifting with respect to each other in con-
sequence of unequal metallic or total reflections, so that the phase
shifting, which one beam obtains in advance of the other, has only
been obtained in the focal line of the cylinder lenses I — large
Fig. 8.
and does, therefore, not depend on the wavelength. This renders
the instrument efficacious for all possible sources of light and for
spectrum regions of any given extent, supposing the lenses to be
made achromatic ^). The result of the method, expressed in equation
(25), is therefore perfectly exact for all possible spectrum regions
^) With such a plate in the arrangement of fig. 7 we must make p = q.
') That the photographic plate Q Q' in fig. 7 may be adjusted once for all. A
possible dispersion would not have influence on the constant phase shifting — either.
