Geology. — "Sowe new sedimentary boulders collected at Groninifen" .
By Dr. P. Kruizinga. (Communicated by Prof. G. A. F.
Molengkaaff).
(Communicated in the meeting of May 31, 1919.)
Some ten years ago a favourable opportunity offered for collecting
sedimentary boulders at Groningen, where in three different spots
at the northern extremity of the Hondsrug and in the neighbourhood
of the northern cemetery, which has already become known as a
findingplace of erratics, impoi-tant excavations were performed. First
when the foundation was laid for the new tram-shed, and shortly
after when new streets were being made, viz. the Tuinbouwstraat
and the Koolstraat.
When trenches were dug for sewer-pipes, the Dilivium was not
reached at the point, where the Tuinbouwstraat joins on to the
Nieuwe Ebbingestraat. The presence of sherds of pottery at a depth
of more tlian J m., however, made us suspect that the upper soil
had been turned over or earthed-uj). A little higher up in the Tuin-
bouwstraat the Dilivium emerged, and gradually rose to the surface,
until about halfway it was seen half a meter above the present
level of the street and was covered only by a thin layer of mould.
Subsequently it first sank again below the street-level, after which
it rose once more to the height just mentioned. Afterwards, on the
occasion of the excursion made in 19J3 by the Geol. Section of the
Geol. Mijnbouwkundig Genootschap (28 p. 83), it was encountered
again in the first part of the Verlengde Tuinbouwstraat, also covered
with a layer of mould.
In the three localities just mentioned boulder-clay was found,
which is calcareous but already oxidized. Besides this a number of
bands of gravel were to be observed.
Among the large number of boulders, found by me during these
excavations, there were several interesting specimens. Of the species
rarely found near Groningen I mentioned already (30 p. 231) the
Up[)er-Siluriau limestone with Pristiograptus frequens Jaek. and the
Saltholms-Iimestone (also the glauconitic variety, the so-called Glau-
conitic Terebratula-rock) from the Danian.
In the following pages 1 [)urpose to discuss three more Silurian
