226
boulders, hitherto unknown in our country, tlie last two not having
been met with in any other country as yet.
Limestone loith Strophomena Jentzschi Gag.
Among the erratics found when the new tram-shed was being
built, there was i. a. a plate-shaped piece of rock about 2 cm. in
thickness and 1 d,ni. in length and in breadth, in which occur a
large number of dorsal valves of a typical Strophomena. Of other
fossils this boulder appeared to contain only a longitudinal section
of a Pleurotomarla and a small pygidiuni oï A.mphus ranicepsDoXm.
so that from this it is obvious that it belongs to the Lower Silurian.
The rock is a fine-grained, rather hard limestone, with scattered
small rounded quartz-granules. I have not been able to detect
glauconite. The primitive colour is undistinguishable, as through
weathering it has changed into a more or less yellowish grey.
Also some brownish spots still occur.
In looking up the literature I soon became aware that the very
same Strophomena has already been described by Gagel of East-
Prussia, who termed it Strophomena Jentzschi (J 5 p. 17 44 pi. V
fig. 26). One of the blocks in which this fossil has been found,
consists of brownish grey hard limestone with somewhat weathered,
yellowish spots. It comes from Spittelhof and contains besides
numerous dorsal valves of the above mentioned fossil, also the rests
of a large Strophomena and another irrecognizable brachiopod. The
other specimen comes from Pr. Holland and is composed of coarse-
crystalline limestone in which only one dorsal valve oi Strophomena
Jentzschi Gag. occurs, beyond corals and rests of crinoids. Their
petrographical character induced Gagel to refer both erratic blocks
to the Upper-Silurian series. However, it will appear presently that
also these boulders, at all events the first-mentioned, have been
proved to belong to the Lower-Silurian. On the other hand, according
to Andersson, the other may possibly originate from the Upper-Silurian
and contain a closely related species.
Now in order to make assurance double sure, I begged Prof. Andkee
of Königsbergen to send me one of Gagel's original samples for
comparison. This request was readily complied with. A couple of
well-preserved valves of Spittelhof were sent me, for which kindness
I still feel greatly indebted.
My suspicion came true in every respect. The shoi't description
of this fossil by Gagel 1 quote here for the sake of completeness:
Umriss querverbreifert, Schlossi'and gleich der grössten Schalen-
