227
breite. Schale anfanglieh flach, daüii allmahlig nnter einein rechten
Winkel nach der Ventralseite zu gekrümmt, so dass die Dorsal-
schale convex wird. Oberflache mit zahlreiclien feineii, aber deutlich
runden Rippen bedeckt, deren Zwischenraunie durcli 2 — 3 selir feine
Radialstreifen angefüllt sind. Ausserdem befmden sicli auf dem
flachen Teil der Schale noch eine Anzahl unregelmassiger, flacher,
concentrisch angeordneter Rtinzeln, ahnlich wie bei Strophomena
rhomboidalis. In der Mitte der Dorsalschale befindet sich oft noch
eine kleine, aber dentliche Einsenkung".
The concave ventral valve has not been discovered by Gagel either.
In consideration of my scanty material I was not enabled to make
certain abont the petrographic resemblance between the bonlder
from Spittelhof and the one found by myself; still it seemed to be
rather great.
The second and latest writer that has described erratics with
Strophomena Jentzschi Gag. from Germany is Stolley (20 p. 136).
Without mentioning the finding-place (only the district Schleswig-
Hollstein is given), he mentions two more blocks. The one is composed
of light-grey limestone, in which here and there vermiform concre-
tions of glauconite grains occur. Beyond a number of specimens of
Strophomena Jentzschi Gag. this boulder contains only Orthisina
plana Pand. The other resembles in a most marked degree the
preceding one, but contains only a trace of glauconite and the only
fossil accompanying Stroph. Jentzschi Gag. was Orthisina concava
v. d. Pahl.
To my knowledge this Strophomena has not been detected in
erratics from Denmark.
Only a few years after Gagel had described the species, J. G.
Andersson also recorded a number of ei-ratics with the same fossil
from Sweden. One of them originates from L. Brunnby in the
parish of Stenasa in Oeland, one from Kallunge Myr in Gotland
and four from Gotska Sandön.
All these specimens differ largely from the one of Groningen as
well as from the German pieces in that they are filled with a
number of rolled fragments of brown phosphorite and brown
to black phosphoritic sandstone. This makes them true conglo-
merates, which induced Andersson to style them Strophomena-
Jentzschi-conglomerate. Similar blocks have not been recorded either
by Stolley or by Gagel, who do not make mention either of any
phosphorus-content. Neither does my specimen. What typifies
Andersson's erratics, is that some, phosphorite blocks contain Upper-
Cambrian fossils, viz. Peltura scarabaeoides Wahlb., Sphaerophthal-
