228
nats sp. and Agnostus pisiformis Linn., which proves them to come
from a region of Cambrian deposits, which was exposed to erosion
during the early pact of the Lower-Silurian period. Andersson (I.e.
p. 79) himself is wrong in inferring from these eri'alics, that they
come from the very locality whence originated also the boulders
they contained, and that at the very least in that place the whole
Upper-Cambrian must have been eroded away. I think this need
not be so at all, and I even believe that it is most likely not the
case, but that the region, fi-om which these Cambrian blocks origi-
nate, has to be looked for rather in the vicirnty of the original
locality of the Silurian erratics. P'irst of all we think of the districts
near the coast of the mainland of Sweden to the West and to the
North of Gotland.
The cementing material also which consolidates the phosphorite
blocks, varies more or less from the first-mentioned erratics, as,
according to J. G. Andersson it sometimes consists of grey to white
spotted coarse-crystalline limestone and sometimes of grey, compact
limestone, in which occur a larger or smaller number of rounded
quartz-grains, as well as occasionally some glauconite.
Among the fossils in the last-mentioned erratics are Orthisina
sp., Platystroplna bi/orata Schloth., Strepula sp. TetradeUa sp.,
Asaphus sp., lllaenus nuculus Pomp., lUaenus sp., some Bryozoa
and other non-descript fossils. Of all these only lllaenus nuculus
Pomp, was known hitherto from a boulder from East-Prussia,
as described by Pompeckj (J 6 p. 69). The author referred it to the
Lower-Silurian period. This rock consists of brownish, coarse-grained
limestone with many quartz-granules.
Finally we refer to one more erratic block with Strophomena
Jentzschi Gag. from the North-Balticura, recorded by Wiman (23 p.
103), viz. N" 94 of Ekeby. This boulder consists of red Asaphus-lime-
stone and does not contain other fossils.
The age of all these erratic blocks could be established, because
Strophomena Jentzschi Gag. has been found in solid rock first by
Andersson (1. c. p. 77) in the northern part of Oeland, afterwards
by Lamansky (22 p. 177) on the Wolchow in Russia and finally by
HoLTEDAHL (29 p. 46) iu South Norway near Vaekkerö and Töien.
Lamansky (I.e. p. 177) suspects that also the brachiopod, which
is recorded by Brögger (5 p. 50 pi. XI, fig. Va) as a Slrophomena
rhomboidalis Wilck. from the Expansus-shale and the lower part
of the Orthoceras-limestone of South-Norway, is identical to
Strophomena Jentzschi Gag. The figure alluded to, is not at all like
it, as already observed by Holtedahl.
