229
This fossil is rarely but regularly found in Oeland, in the lower-
most, glaiiconitic Asaphns-limestone, in Russia in the three divisions
of the zone Bjji [B/jj^, Bjii. and Bni.) ofLAMANSKY. On the basis of
his investigations Lamansky parallels the lower half of ö^//^ with the
Lower Asaphus limestone of Oeland, but the Strophomena-Jentzschi-
conglomerate with the Upper Asaphus-limestone and theGigas-limestone
of Oeland, and with the upper part of Lamansky's zone Bjn^^ and
with his zone Bjij, of Russia, so that from this it follows, that
Strophomena Jentzschi Gag. is spread over a laiger vertical extent
than Andersson could have surmised at first. In South-Norway the
fossil has been found in the zone 3 c.
If, therefore, we wish to parallel this erratic block with any of
the Lower Silurian strata, it is necessary, in vie\v of the varying
petrographical character of the divisions, which deserve consideration,
and in view of the different character of each of them in different
regions, to find out from which region the boulder most probably
originates.
According to Lindström (11 p. 9 — 12) Asaphus raniceps Dalm.
occurs already in the Lower Gray Orthoceras-limestone of Sweden
and is still found in the Upper Gray Orthoceras-limestone.
According to Schmidt this species is observed in Russia in the
zones B 2h—B 36; according to Lamansky (22 p. 169) in the upper
strata of the zone Bjjj up to the lower sti-ata of Bjjj .
Bkögger asserts that it is not quite certain whether they are met
with in Norway (5 p. 92).
Most probably this erratic block does not originate from the
mainland of Scandinavia, !Strophomen<j Jentzschi Gag being known
there only in South Norway. Moreover the rocks from those zones
differ from our boulder.
Likewise the Russian Silurian need not be considered although
the latter fossil also occurs in Russia. It has not been observed yet
to the west of Reval. In that region only Bm of the zone B'^^^
exists and this division consists of calcareous sandstone. Our boulder,
therefore cannot come from the Easl-Balticum.
As has been said, only one erratic block with Strophomena Jentzschi
Gag. from the North-Balticum is known. The petrographical character
of it does not agree with this specimen. Boulders of grey limestone
have been found there, indeed, which belong to the Asaphus-lime-
stone of WiMAN and may therefore be of the same age.
In Oeland the Lower Asaphus-limestone consists of limestone partly
containing glauconite and partly free from that mineral of which
