230
tlie first maj agree pretty well with Stolley's boulders, but neither
of them agree with the Groningen specimen, especially as regards
the amount of quartzgrains.
The presence of erratic blocks with Strophomena Jentzschi Gag.
in Geland, Gotland and Gotska Sandön leads us to consider also
the localities of the Baltic west and north of the last two islands.
It is true, the erratics found there, differ largely from the Groningen
boulder; still this district is presumably to be considered as their
original site. Stolley and Andersson do the same for their blocks,
while the assumption also seems warrantable of the presence of
similar erratics in East-Prussia, notably the one described by Pompeckj
and the S[)ittelhof fragment recorded by Gaoel.
Probably this specimen must be considered to originate from a
narrow slip of the Baltic, a little north of Gotska Sandön and at
a short distance West of Gotland.
From the foregoing it appears therefore, that the place of origin
cannot be assigned more accurately, so that we cannot say for sure
to which division of the zone Bm the boulder belongs. It is
therefore, like the Strophomena-Jentzschi conglomerate to be classed
provisionally under Bm.
Calcareous Sandstone unth Asaphus raniceps Dahn.
In the Tuinbouwstraat one boulder was found among the many
erratics that, judging from the fossils it contains, must be included
among the Lower-Silurian. It is however of a peculiar petrogra{)hical
character, as it consists of rather hard, fine-grained sandstone with
a calcareous cement. The like of it appeared to be quite unknown
in the literature of erratics.
This erratic block has about the size of a child's head and its
primitive colour was gray to bluish-gray, as may still be observed
from the inner part; the outside, however, shows a discolouration
to brownish-yellow. For the rest it has suffered little from weathering.
The quartz-grains are small, all but colourless and rounded. 1 did
not encounter giauconite, but only some grains of calcite. The rock
also contains a few pieces of more or less rounded, coarse-grained
limestone, black at the periphery, white in the centre. These frag-
ments, which moreover contain a large number of brown, rod-shaped
bodies, are presumably little rolled boulders since they differ so
much from the surrounding rock. However this is still highly
problematical.
Beyond one specimen of an C^r^Aw-species this block contains a
