231
small hut complete pygidium of Asaphus rnniceps Dalm. (Lengtii 7^
mm, breadth 11 mm) and numerous other indeterminable fragments
of Asaphids; i.a. a fragment of an hypostome.
In the description of the previous boulder I have alreadj' com-
municated something about the occurrence oï Asaphus raniceps Dalm. in
the Lower Silurian deposits in Scandinavia and Russia, so that I
now merely refer to it.
From the above it appears, therefore that this block is to be
classed under the older strata of the Lower-Silurian, specifically under
one of the divisions equivalent to the Swedish Orthoceras-limestone.
However in Scandinavia or in Bornholm no solid rock is known
resembling this rock in any way. Starting from Reval, Bm of
Lamansky has developed itself as a calcareous limestone in the
Western part of Estland. Fragments of this rock also occur on the
beach of Odensholm, so that up to that locality at least this division
retains the same petrogi'aphical character. There it has sunk already
below the sea-level. Having no control-nmterial of this rock I am
unable to ascertain its similarity to this boulder.
Moreover some boulders have been discovered, which, being
composed of limestone, contain a variable amount of rounded quartz-
granules and agree in age with Bju, as may be gathered from the
description of the previous species of erratics.
I therefore believe that this piece is to be considered as a quartz-
rich variety of the limestone with Sfroj)hom£na Jentzscld Gag. and
of the Strophomena-Jentzschi-conglomerate, especially because in the
previous block also occui's a pygidium that belongs to the same
AsapIms-s^QdiQ^.
When examining the fragment more closely with regard to a
possible phosphorus-content, both the rock itself and the foreign
enclosures distinctly proved to cojitain at least some phosphorus. The
latter, however, did not give off any smell of bitumen when particles
were knocked off with the hammer. Furthermore, because they are
not fossiliferous, we cannot determine whether these fragments of
limestone, as is the case with the erratics of the Strophomena-Jentzschi-
conglomerate examined by Andersson, are to be included under the
Cambrian.
Most likely the original locality of this erratic block is that slip
of the Baltic which covers the prolongation of the calcareous sand-
stone in Estland and continues along the North side of Gotska
Sandön as far as West of Gotland, thus comprising the region,
from which the Strophomena-Jentzschi-conglomerate originates.
