232
Limestone loith Dinobolus transversus Salt.
A piece of fine grained-crystalline limestone having beconrie
brownish-yellow through weathering and of about the size of a fist,
contains a dorsal valve of Dinobolus transversus Salt. (1 p. 59 pi. V
lig. 1 — 6), which in spite of its extreme thinness iias been preserved
in admirable perfection. This boulder also, which was also found
in the Tuinbonwstraat at Groningen, is a completely unl^nown
species of erratics, as the fossil mentioned just now was not met
with in any other country.
The length of the valve is 3 cm., the largest breadth, across the
centre, 4.2 cm. The almost straight hinge margin is 3.3 cm. long.
The doi-sal valve is almost quite tlat and reveals on its suiface
numerous, very faint, concentric lines of growth and an extremely
fine radial striation. Whether there are small spines on the outer
surface, as indicated by Davidson (I.e. pi. V, fig. 3 and Za) cannot
be made out.
Of other fossils this boulder contains besides a number of detached
portions of crinoid stems also a valve of Pholidops impUcata Sow.
(1 p. 80, pi. 8, fig. J 3 — 17) and a valve of Bei/rirhia Jonesl Boll
(13 p. 13, pi. II, fig. 10 — 12) and a pygidium of Proetus concinnus
Dalm. (9 p. 78, 18 p. 41, pi. IV, fig. 1—9, 3 p. 22, pi. XVil,
fig. 5).
From all this it appeal's, therefore, that the block belongs to the
upper Silurian, the zone, being undetermined yet.
Pholidops implicata Sow. contrary to Pholidops antiqua Schloth.
is probably quite unknown in our upper Silurian erratics as well
as in those from Germany and Denmai'k, which is peihaps due
to the fact that vai-ious authoi-s have considered the two as synonyms
(7 p. 96, 10 p. 173). It appears however, as Mobkrg and Gkönwall
(24 p. 30) have shown, that they were used for fossils which indeed
are closely allied to each other but also form a distinct contrast.
Only KiKSOW (6 p. 245) records that Pholidops implicata Sow. (:= Crania
implicata Sow.) is very abundant in West-Prussia in the boulders
of the U|)per-Silurian Beyrichia Limestone. I think however that
he also refers here to Pholidops antiqua Schloth.
In solid rock Pholidops implicata Sow. is known only from the
island of Gotland (from the zones c — h of Lindström (12 p. 13).
MuNTHK (27 p. 12—13) mentions the fossil from the layers 2 — 4
distinguished by him and Van Hoepkn (25 p. 125) fiom y and f«,j.
LiNDSTiiöM, also, records the occurrence in Schonen (I.e. p. 26), but
MoBERG and Grönwai.l state that the species there differs distinctly
