245
state for various lengths of the oblique eye-muscles, the passive
lengthening or shortening of the rectal eje-muscles, or conver-
sely, for various lengths of the rectal eje-muscles the passive
lengthening or shortening of the oblique ej'e-muscles.
The tabular statements, corrected according to this s.ystem, have
been reproduced as curves on tig. 1 — 4.
So these curves represent the rectified lengths in m.m. of the
4 eje-muscles (both oblique and recti super, and infer.) for the three
rotations of the head above-mentioned. For the obliq. superior only
the distance from trochlea to the insertion on the bulbus has been
reproduced. F'rom all this we learn that curxes of the obliq. superior
and obliq. inferior form a true reflexion of each other, that is to
say that, at the tonic reflex of the labyrinth these muscles act as
antagonists, the lengthening of the one brings about the shortening
of the other, and conversely.
At the same time the curves of the m.m. recti superior and
inferior show that these muscles too are absolute antagonists.
If we compare the curves of the oblique eye muscles (fig. 1 and
2) with the curves, found at a former period for the rotatory
movements of the eye, we see, that they agree with regard
to the principal points. Especially the positions of the maxima and
minima do not show any essential difference; the rotatory move-
ments and the shortening of the oblique eye muscles are greatest
when the head with its muzzle points vertically upward or
downward. At the same time the curves for the rectal eye-muscles
(fig. 3 and 4) agree with the curves, found before for the vertical
deviations of the eye. Only the shape of the curve of the eye-
muscles at rotation III is a little bit more pointed than the shape
of the curve, found for the vertical deviations.
However the position of the maxima and minima undergo no
essential change. The maximum contraction of the two rectal
eye-muscles takes place when the head is almost in side position.
Now, comparing the curves of the obliqui and recti, we find the
following:
At rotation I [ — ) the obliqui react strongly whereas the recti
hardly perform any movement.
So, at this rotation we find no vertical deviations, but almost all
of them are rotatory-mo\'ements.
On the other hand, at rotation II ( — . — .) the obliqui hardly
react at all, whereas the recti superior and inferior perform strong
movements; so for this rotation the vertical movements prevail,
whereas rotatory movements do not take place.
