288
islniies through the pia mater. One can surely demonstrate the N.
abducens of tlie cranial nerves. With the nerve lying proximally
fr-oni (his, it is not so. Only after a microscopic examination, it is
certain that it is the N. trigeminus. Between these two thick nerves
the base of the brain is formed by a thin membrane, which when
the brain was removed could only be spared with the utmost care.
If the sack is oi)ened at its dorsal part and is folded backward,
there appears a local defect in the brain-base, more than 1 cm.
wide There the base of the brain is formed by a membrane,
J mm. thick, at the utmost, in which some white nerve strings
diverge from the mid-line towards a proximally placed mass of
nervous tissue. This nervous mass, striatum and thalamencephalon
are shining through (he pia mater at the base in fig. 3. Thei'e is an
interrupted continuation in the brain-base at the level of the pes
pedunculi.
The bony base of the brain is \ev\ remarkable. The crista galli
proii'udes. On bo(h its sides the lamina cribrosa carries the bulbi
olfactorii, which send their fila olfactoria through it. Moreover the
0[)tic foramina are normally formed, together with the frontal part
of the OS sphenoidale. Then however the sella turcica is found missing,
also the hypophysis. The base of the crane is not massive, but
movable, as there is a great loss of bone distally from the sella turcica.
An X-ray photo taken from the upper side makes this obvious.
Here a large defect in the bony base of the skull appears. The
caudal part of (he os sphenoidale is missing in the mid-line and
the frontal part of the clivus has fallen out as far as the arch of the
Atlas. The os petrosum is intact on both sides. There are no jaws.
Through the loss of the facies orbitalis of the upper jaw the eyes
have sunk downwards. They are no longer lying in a bony orbit.
The lamina papyracea of the ethmoidal bone is placed proximally
from the double eye and therefore easily recognisable in the X-ray
photo. In this case, it is not because the mesial wall of the orbit
has been destroyed that the eyes have met one another in the
mid-line, but because the lower wall of the orbit is absent.
This cyclopian monsti'osity possesses a complete rhinencephalon,
but at the same time it becomes synotic through the loss of a
lower jaw.
As to the question, what may be the cause of such a monstrosity
one must acknowledge that immense difficulties arise in defending
that there was an insufficiency of germ material, as fai' as the
brain as well as the bony parts of the skull, is concerned Simpler
is the view in taking the sack as point of origin.
