289
A pathological process which calls forth the sack '.and the latter
is found in all the cases of this sort) is able to destroy at the
dorsal brainside the mesencephalon and the cerebellum when they
hinder its developnient at the distal end. But at the ventral side
the pathological process destroys the pedunculi cerebri and the tissue
on which they lie. This is the germ material out of which jaws,
mouth and tongue are going to develop.
Distally bordered by the second branchial arch (the os hyoideum
was intact in all the three cases of synotia) all is destioyed that
is going to develop out of the tirst branchial arch (except occasionally
of the ossicula acustica) and out of the tissue, which lies proximally
from it. In this w^ay the local defect of the pedunculi cerebri and
of the tissue forming the middle part of the skull, is easily understood.
According to the view which I explained in my previous report,
I think the cause of the sack to be a local process of inflammation,
which by means of a mechanical influence produces a defect at the
base of the brain, and of the skull.
On the other hand 1 acknowledge the possibility that the sack
and the basal defect, together may be co-effects of another more
complicated pathological cause.
In debates u|)on this subject, held at Leiden Dr. Murk Jansp^n
defended the thesis that the narrowness of the amnion may perhaps
produce the sack as well as the defect, by compressing the head
of the embryo in a strictly defined plane. The result may be that
all the germ material, which is found in this plane, may die.
Should such a hypothesis be confirmed, there will arise different
possibilities in the formation of these monstra, luit 1 will not yet
enter upon these.
I only wish to lay stress oirtlm following views.
Destroying of tissue at the proximal end of the skull, so that the
OS ethmoidale disappears and the dorsally placed sack, the roof of
the distended 111'»' ventricle is formed, gives rise to cyclopian monstra.
But they are not the only defect-formations which are found.
There is yet another place of predilection, where the tissue that
will form parts of the skull, may be destroyed. In such cases the
first branchial arch nmy be destroyed by pathological processes.
These lead to synotia. Now and then it occurs isolated. Then we
see uncomplicated synotia. Nose, eyes and upper jaw are well deve-
loped, as found in the fetus, mentioned sub 1.
But also the two local destroying processes appear, independent
of each other, next to one another. Then cyclopian and synotian
deformities are found together. And there may remain between
