Chemistry. — "(hi the Phenomenon after Anodic Polarisation." II.
- Bj Prof. A. Smits, G. L. C. La Bastide, and Th. deCrauw.
(Communicated by Prof. P. Zeeman).
(Communicated in the meeting of June 28, 1919).
1. It was shown in a preceding- oommiinication that the
phenomenon that appears after anodic polarisation of ii'On in an iron
salt solution is owing to this that during the anodic solution the
iron gels surrounded by a liquid laver which is very rich in ferro-
(Fe" )
ions. As a rule tiie ratio -7= — will be greater in this li(|ui(i layer
{Fe'-)
than outside it. After the current has been broken the ferri-ions will,
therefore, diffuse from the surroundings into the boundary layer,
whereas the feri-o-ions pass outside, which causes the ratio ..
{]^e )^
to become again smaller in the boundary layer. In consequence of
this change the potential of the iron, which was at first less negative
or positive through the disturbance of the metal, passes -through a
minimum value after interruption of the current.
That the above explanation actually accounts for the phenomenon
was proved by the fact that the phenomenon disa|)pears altogether
when the iron salt solution is previously heated in a hydrogen
atmosphere with iron powder for some time. We then get a ferro
salt solution which is in electromotive equilibrium with unarv iron,
{Fe" )
so that in the boundary layer tlie ratio .. practically does not
{re )
change when the iron is anodically dissolved.
2. In the above mentioned communication it was pointed out
that the potential of Nickel after polarisation in a solution ofNiSO^
likewise passes through a minimum value, so that it was already
supposed that this phenomenon would have to be explained in the
same way as for iron.
To examine this the phenomenon for Nickel was first photographed
when the metal was immersed in a solution of NiCl^. In this the mini-
mum shows itself very clearly, as the adjoined photo (fig. 1) sets forth.
The process is much quicker than when an NiSO^ solution is used,
in consequence of the positively catalytic action of the chlorine ions.
