299
Then the NiCl, solution was healed for some time in a hydrogen
atmosphere with finely divided Nickel that had been prepared bj'
reduction of NiO at relatively low temperature, after which the experi-
ment was repeated. As the following photo shows (fig. 2), the pheno-
menon had now entirely disappeared.
3. -If was already pointed out in the preceding communication,
that as it wei'e, the rejiected image of the phenomenon was to be
expected, when e.g. iron immersed in a ferro-ferri-salt-solution is made
{Fe' )
cathode. The ratio -= — will be greatest at the iron surface, because
{Fe")
the iron I)}' sending Fe" -\ou^ into solutions, strives to bring such a
change in the boundary layer that in case of unary behaviour, it
can be in equilibrium with it. Hem*e the farther the liquid layer is
iFe" )
from the iron, the smaller will be the ratio —- — . When therefore
{I^e")
iron, immer.sed in the supposed solution, is made cathode for a
moment, the iron will be deposited from the boundary layer, and
the ions from the following layer will diffuse into the boundary
layer, and as the ratio ... is smaller in this following layer, the
iron after cathodic polarisation comes *in contact with a liquid layer
{Fe" )
in which the ratio -= — is smaller than before the cathodic polari-
{Fe")
sation, which causes a stronger disturbance in noble direction, hence
a less negative potential. After interruption of the current the said
ratio will now increase again through the solution of the iron, so
that the potential of the iron becomes again more negative. As on
cathodic polarisation the iron gets covered with a layer of iron,
which at first deviates from the unary iron in base direction, a
phenomenon after catJiodir. pohirisation was really to be expected
also here, which would have to consist in this, that after interruption
of the current the potential of the iron, after cathodic polarisation,
passes through a maximum value. ^)
As the photo on fig. 3 shows, this supposition is confirmed. The
maximum B lies about 30 m.V. less negative than the initial potential
indicated by the line DE.
It will now be examined whether the same phenomenon can also
be observed for Nickel.
Laboratory for (ireneral and Anorganic
Amsterdam, June 27, 1919. ('hemistrg of the University.
1) Through diminution of the total ion concentration the potential becomes more
negative in a small degree, so that tliis circimistance still slightly counteracts the
phenomenon under consideration.
20
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol XXII.
