Physics. — "Researches on the Spectra of Tin, Lead, Antimony,
and Bismuth in the Magnetic Fieldt By Dr. P. A. van dkk Hakst.
(Communicated by Pi'of. P. Zeeman).
(Gonamunicated in the meeting of June 28, 1919).
To earry out the obsei'vations of which the description will follow
here, I have made use of the grating apparatus of the Physical
Laboratory at Amsterdam, which had been placed at my disposal
by Prof. P. Zeeman.
The experiments will be described more at length in my the8i8
for the doctorate, which will be published under the above title.
1. The spectra of tin, lead, antimony, and bismuth have been
little, if at all, studied as to their Zeeman effect. The only scientist
that made systematic observations on these elements in this respect,
\B Purvis ^). As is known, his results often present, however, great
deviations from those of others, which is chiefly owing to an error
in the measurement of the intensity of the field. Besides, Purvis
measures but few lines of these elements, viz. only those for which
no longer time of exposure was required than half an hour to get
them distinctly enough on the photographic plate to be measured.
It seemed, therefore, desirable to me to subject the magnetic resolution
for these elements to a closer examination.
2. The grating apparatus has been described by Mrs. H. B.
BiLDKRBEEK — VAN Meurs *). The grating is a concave one of Rowland ;
radius 3 m., width 8 cm., 14438 lines per inch. Slit and grating are
rigid with respect to each other, and with respect to an iron circular
arch, on which the photographic plates are clasped, so that the
exposure can be simultaneous in all orders.
The width of the slit generally amounted to about 20 f/, i.e. 8
^) J. E Purvis. The Influence of a very Strong Magnetic Field on the Spark
Spectra of Lead, Tin. Antimony. Bismuth and Gold. Camb. Phil. Soc, 14, 217,
1907; Nature, 76, 166, 1907.
') H. B, BiLDERBEEK— V. Meurs. Magnetische splitsing van bet ultraviolette
ijzerspectrum (a 2300— a 4500). Diss., Amsterdam, 1909.
