30J
times the normal width of the slit ^) for the arrangement used. As
lens I used a double lens of quartz-calcium tluorite, transparent to
ultraviolet rajs, and moreover achromatic. The image of the source
of light always fell at the same place of the slit.
It was generally necessary to separate the vertical and horizontal
components with a calcspar rhombohedron, placed between the
source of ligiit and the lens. One of the two images formed in this
way, was projected on the slit.
The magnet was a large-size Du Bois magnet, of which the end-
planes of the conic pole tops were circular with a section of
generall}' 8 mm. The distance between the poles was never greater
than 4 mm. The magnetizing current was measured with a thermic
Ampèremeter of Hartmann and Braun, and generally amounted to
15 Ampères.
As source of light was used a spark between electrodes
of the metal under examination, or alloys of it. The spark was,
parallel to a condenser, in the secondary circuit of a transformator
(of Koch and Sterzet, at Dresden), of which the primary circuit was
fed by the municipal alternating current. Besides in the secondary
circuit thei-e was found an auxiliary spark, and an adjustable self-
induction, in series with the spark. The particulars of the spark
dischai'ge (intensity of light, sharpness of the spectrum lines formed,
melting of the electrodes) and the influence on this of self-induction,
capacity and auxiliary spark will be fully discussed in my Thesis
for the Doctorate.
As photographic plates I mostly used "Agfa Röntgen" plates,
which I made previously sensitive to colour by bathing them in
"Pynachrom." The plates prepared in this way were preferable in
my opinion to the commercial colour-sensitive plates.
The measurements were performed with a Zeiss comparator. The
results were divided into four groups according to their greater or
less accuracy, which I gave in the tables the weight: 4, 3, 2, 1.
The first group had a probable error of 1 7o or less, the second
from 17, to 57,, the third from 5 7, tot 10 7,, the fourth of more
than 10 7o- For the precautions taken in the measurements and the
determination of the error I refer to my Thesis.
Also the preliminary experiments: the focussing of the plate-holder,
the determination of the dissolving power, and the scalar value will
not be treated further here, but may be found in my Thesis. The
resolving power was certainly not smaller than the theoretical.
') Schuster. The Optics of the Spectroscope. Astroph. J.. 31, 197,1905.
20*
