302
«
3. Observot/'oiis. The different intensities of the field were always
determined hy measuring the lesoliilions \vhi('h were caused by them
fof Zn 4680, in which the degree of resolution of this line was
eoinpared with that obtained with the well-known absobite measure-
ments of Gmki.in. Weiss and Cotton 'j, and Koktat "). As standard
value for — .10' I took the mean of the values obtained by them,
viz. 9,376. I iriostly worked with fields that lay in the neighbourhood
of 30000 Gauss.
For tin and lead the electrodes were flexible strips of these metals,
which were stretched cross-wise over the pole tops. For tin the
spark was still cooled by blowing with a Föhn, because otherwise the
electrodes were melted through too quickly, and the discharge passed
into a continuous one. This method was discarded for lead, because
with the P^ohn there would often be a hitch, and an auxiliary spark
was inserted in the secondary circuit in series with the illumi-
nating spark. By regulating the distance of this auxiliar) spark, we
have much better control over the action of the illuminating spark.
The electrodes of the auxiliary spark must not oxidise, however,
because then we get there a more continuous discharge, whereas
the very function of the auxiliary spark is to obviate this drawback,
which is met with for the illuminating spark, and is not to be avoided
there; it has, therefore, to ensure an interi-upted discharge. Fortius
purpose the bulbs of brass, of which the auxiliary spark consisted,
were coated with platinum hoods. The strips of lead were kept
tightly stretched over the pole tops, as otherwise they are apt to bend
over towards each other, thus rendering the spark length too small.
No flexible bands could be made of antimony on account of the
brittleness of this metal; I therefore used small fhit rods of this
metal as electrodes, which were clasped in a spark stand of brass.
An advantage of this metal is that it has a pretty high melting-point,
and that therefore the electrodes do not so quickly melt through.
I have oidy used Bismuth as electrode as alloy with antimony (60
percentages by weight of bismuth) else it combined the drawbacks
of tin and lead that it melted soon, and that of antimony that it
was brittle. In the alloy the first drawback was eliminated, and it
could further be used as antimony.
I must state further that in the tables in which Schippers*) records
i) P. Zeeman. Researches in Magneto-optics. Mac Millan and Co, London, 1913,
p. 67. Deutsche Uebersetzung, Leipzig, J A. Earth, 1914.
2) R. FoRTAT. Recherches de magneto-optique. These, Paris, 1914.
8) H. Schippers. Messungen am Anlimonspectrum. Zs. f. Wiss. Phot., 11.
235, 241.
