306
For the other titi uiid aiiiiinoiiy series I liave obtained no line
that was split up or only one.
When we study (he above results, we see that of the series for
which it is possible to give an opinion in how far they follow
Preston's laws, only series XIII is not in conflict with these rules.
In series VII the resolutions gradually increase; the first and the
last splitting' up lie farther apart than the limit of errors. Besides a
quadruplet occurs there in the midst of the triplets. Even if these
triplets were at bottom quadruplets, of which only the middle com-
ponent was seen unsplit, uMiich is very improbable, even then the
amounts of the resolutions of the outer components would not be
in agreement with each other. — The foregoing does not plead, in
my opinion, in favour of v. Lohuizen's results, though there remains
a possibility that there are series that do not follow the rule of Preston.
The efficacy of the ZEEMAN-effects for the discrimination of spectrum
series was very apparent when Runge and Paschen found double
lines in the spectra of Mg, ()a, Sr, Ba, which lines were changed
in the magnetic field in the same way as double lines in principal
and subordinate series in the spectra of the alkali-metals, while
similar results were also found for some double lines from the
Ra-spectrum. The hopes raised in 1902 and 1904 by the said
researches with regard to the finding of series are accordingly not
realized as far as the metals examined by me, are concerned.
I have further also tried to find regularities myself. For this
purpose and also in what precedes I have made use of a graphical
representation, which seemed convenient to me. I have arranged the
resolutions in every element according to their amount, and then
plotted them on the same scale vertically under each other, as is
usually done when resolutions are to be compared inter se. Two
successive resolutions on the whole differing but little in amount,
there arises a curve. A vertical part represents a number of equal
splittings up. When the corresponding lines are indicated by the
side of the resolution figure, we have at once a survey of all the
lines that possibly belong to a series. Comj)are the graphical i-epresentation.
In this the resolution figures are only represented half, which,
however, does not give rise to difficulties, as they are symmetrical.
The components are not indicated by single lines; I have blackened
the whole region, where they can be found according to the probable
error. The vertical lines traced in the figure, are at distances = half
the normal splitting up. A sloping straight part of the curve means
that between two definite amounts of splitting up the resolutions
are regularly distributed. When I examined this for the resolutions
