Physiology. — *' Further Researches in connection with the pennea-
hility of the glomerular membrayie to stereoisomeric sugars".
By Prof. H. J. Hamburger.
(Communicated in the meeting of September 27, 1919).
It lias previously ') been shown that when a liquid, whose com-
position is efficient, is passed through the bloodvessels of the kidneys,
the grape sugar dissolved in the liquid is retained by the glomerular
membrane. In this concei-n the concentration of the Ca-ions and
H-ions play the principal part. This retention of glucose is very
remarkable, seeing that other crystalloids like common salt, sulphates
and phosphates are not retained by the glomerular membrane. The
question then arose what the cause could be of this so efficient
behaviour of glucose. Had it something to do with the size of the
molecule? This supposition had to be dismissed when it appeared
that lactose (C,,H„Oi,), which has a moleculai' weight almost twice
as great, passed through completely, which was the case even with
raffinose (CigHj^O,,). Nothing else then remained but to accept that
this phenomenon was to be ascribed to the particular configuration
of the glucose molecule*).
To test this conclusion by experiment other hexoses (OgHi^O,),
isomeric with glucose, were examined. It appeared thereby that, in
contrast with glucose, the fructose and mannose were allowed to
pass through completely. The frog's kidney isable thus to distinguish
glucose from fructose and mannose.
The cause thus indeed lay in the difference in chemical structure.
Obviously the thought of the wellknown comparison with lock and
key occurred -. The key glucose thus does not fit in the lock glomerular
membrane, while the keys fructose and mannose do.
We now asked ourselves the question : ivill it perhaps he possible
to point out a particular group of atoms in the glucose molecule
which may he considered responsible for the retention'^ The attempt
to answer this question forms the contents of this article.
^) Hamburger and Brinkman, These Proc. Meeting of January 27, 1917, Vol.
XIX, N". 8.
2) Hamburger and Brinkman, These Proc. Meeting of September 28, 1918, Vol.
XXI, N*^. 4.
