:^52
Il is übyioiis thai for tliis it was necessary to exaiïiine a number
of isomeric and stereoisomeric suji,ars with regard to their beha\ ionr
towards the kidneys, and tlien, not oidy hexoses, but also pentoses.
Jhr. Ai.HKHOA VAN Kkknstkin, Prof. Backkh, Prof. Bökskkkn and Prof.
Neubkkg were so kind as to assist me in this as much as possible.
Hereby 1 again tender them my coi'dial thanks. Nevertheless the
diversity of material was vei-y limited.
The methods pursued did not ditfer tVom the previous ones ').
They were based upon the reducing powers of the .secreted artificial
urine, and that of the perfusion liquid. This perfusion liquid, in which
the sugai-s wei-e dissolved, again had the following composition:
NaCI 0.5",, K(;i 0.027,, OaCI, . 6 aq 0.04 V,, NaHCO, 0.285 7„.
The determination of the sugai' was made, as in the previous case,
according to Bang (1916). Lately however the newest method of this
writer was iisecM). This also is based upon the determination of the
reduction. Here the discrepancy which can arise from differences in
the intensity of boiling is eliminated, and that because hot steam is
passed thi'ough the boiling litpiid, whereby the cuprous oxide is
instantly changed into cupric by means of iodic acid Furthermore
the oxidation by the air is avoided. The linal titration is carried out
with 0,01 11 thiosulphate and starch solution. If a c.c. thiosulphate
are used then the reduction in terms of glucose can be calculated
from the formula (1.97— ^^r) : 2.8. If no reducing substance or sugar
is present then the answer must be found to be: <i=i\.^l, which
is indeed the case if the substances used are pure '). This new
method, it appeai-ed, like the old one also gave very good results.
The results are even nice. On the whole the figures obtained for
the reduction, by the new method, are higher than those obtained
when the old method is used, but, seeing that the purpose here is
comparative research it is mostly not of vital importance.
In oi'der to have an introduction for our procedure the arbitrary
C-OH
hypothesis was made that the | group in the glucose molecule
H-C-OH
caused the retention.
M Compare also Hamburger and Bbinkman, Biochemische Zeitschiift 88, 97, (1918).
2) Bang, Biochemische Zeitschrift, 92, 344, (1918).
^) We wish to call special attention to that because after long searching it has
appeared that the KCl "pro Analyse" of Kahlbauu contained reducing substances.
This was also the case with the KCl which was supplied by the British Drug
Houses as chemically pure. After repeated crystallization the KGl was freed from
reducing subs^tances and then we obtained like Bang, a value of 1.97 for a.
