357
matter of fact, tliev ai-e allowed to pass tliroiigh. Oii llie other hand
however, in accordance with the hypothesis, (i-galactose, l-xylose
and d-ril)ose are i-etained, hiit this happens oidy with a part of each
of the sugars which ai'e passed through. As regards the sugars
which, from the hypothesis, were expected to pass through completely,
they all indee<l passed through the glomei'ular membrane except the
d-xylose, which was |)artially retained. To this partial retention we
shall retui'ii again, as has already l)een said, in the next article.
If we accept for the time being that even where a total retention
had to take place, a partial one satisfies the hypothesis, then in any
case there still remain the 1-mannose and the 1-arabinose of which,
in contradiction to the hypothesis, nothing is retaijied. There will
therefore be an inclination to hold a larger group of atoms of
the glucose molecule responsible for the retention, for instance
C— OH
I
H— C — OH . But also in this case 1-arabinose had to be retained
OH— C— H
conipletely.
C~OH
I
H -C— OH
I
If the group of atoms is taken still larger viz. OH — i) — H
H -C- OH
then this could be held responsible foi' the retention of glucose, but
then the (iifticnlties of the partial retention still remain. For the
preseid therefore it is risky to explain the retention by means of
the image of the lock and key, unless, instead of a part of the
molecule, the grouping of the whole is taken. Uv) Graaff ') came
to a more or less like conclusion through his detailed experiments
in connection with the behaviour of typhoid and para typhoid bacilli
towards stereoisomeric sugars.
As matters stood now there woidd be the inclination to get a point
of contact with the specific physical properties of glucose, and we
thought of surface tension, viscosity and adsorption.
As regards the surface tension, comparative experiments were
made with d-glucose and d-fructose ') ; of the latter sugar it will be
M W. C DE Graaff: Tlie biochemical characteis of paratyphoid bacilli. Leiden,
S. C. VAN DOESBURGH, 1918.
') We take these especially because, as a rule we have sufficient quantities of
them at our disposal.
