358
remembered no trace is retained by the kidney. But it appeared
tliron^li staiagrrioinetric' experiments (J. Traubk) and tlirongh experi-
ments where the height of the meniscns throngh capillary action was
made use of, that there existed no difference in the surface tensions
of the two sugars. Neithei' did the viscosities of the two sugars show
any difference.
We now turned to the ddsorption ; would the glomerular mem-
brane perhaps adsorb glucose, and, on the other hand, not fructose?
As a matter of fact we would not have busied ourselves with
these experimetits had not 0. Cohnheim 'j conducted similar ones.
For, supposing that the glomerular tnembrane adsorbed d-glucose,
but no laevulose, tfien it would be extremely difficult to explain
the different behaviour of the living kidney toward these two sugars
through this. But, in any case, this would at least be an indication
in the direction in which the explanation of the facts has to be
sought. In addition to this there remains the fact that Cohnheim
could indeed notice differences in the adsorptive power of the kidney
substance of warm blooded animals towards glucose and laevulose.
Hovvevei' there are several grounds on which this conclusion of
GoHNHEiM can be doubted. 1 shall communicate about this in another
place and point out through the medium of experiments conducted
with frogs' kidneys, that the methods pursued by this investigator
viz., to experiment with mashed kidney substance, to determine the
adsorptive power of the kidney for sugars, must lead to results
which cannot be relied upon.
Sunnmiry and Conclusion.
To investigate whether a particular group of atoms can be held
responsible for the retention of glucose by the kidney, a nund^er
of stereoisomeric hexoses and peidoses were examined with regard
to their behaviour towards the kidneys.
0— OH
i
The hypothesis that the gr-oup H — (J — OH causes the retention
cannot be true seeing that 1-arabinose and 1-mannose which have
this group pass completely through the kidney, while the d-galactose,
the 1-xylose and the d-ribose in which this group is also present
are partly i-etained, it is true, but still the othei- part is allow^ed to
pass through (partial retention that is).
In keeping with the hypothesis the sugars whose first
') Cohnheim: Zeilschr. f. Physiol. Chemie, 84, p. 451.
