Physiology". — " The jxtrt'utl /tennea/nltty of the glomevjiUtr membrane
to (l-tfalactose and some other multi-rotator// su(/ars'. By Prof.
H. J. Hambuhgkh.
(Communicated in tiie meeting of September 27, 1919).
Tlirougli earlier experiments it has appeared already that d-galactose
is only partially retained ') by the glomerular membrane. Upon
closer examination, however, this appears to agree very little with
the idea of permeability, because a filter either holds back a
substance or allows it to pass through unconditioually. A mean
between these two extremes can hardly be couceived when there
is question of only a simple substance and- not of a mixture. As a
matter of fact at first we were inclined therefore to drop the idea
of permeability, but, as appears from the preceding article we
endeavoured in vain to clear up the matter with the help of surface
tension, viscosity or adsorption. For this reason we then returned
again to the idea of permeability.
On closer inspection two explanations still seemed possible to us:
l''^ The concentrations of the galactose-solutions which had been
used up to this (0.1 7o ^'if^ 0.15 7o)> might have been too strong
that is above the toleration of the kid uey for d-galactose. We were
mindful here of our experience in connection with glucose; for, did
we not find formerly '), that, when the concentration of glucose in
the perfusion liquid exceeded the physiological value only by 0.02 7«,
already a little of the glucose was suffered to pass through, and,
that this quantity increased in proportion as the concentration of
sugar in the perfusion liquid became stronger, so that when the
concentration of glucose had become 0.2 7o practically no sugar was
retained any longer? There was a possibility therefore that also the
concentration of galactose might have been too strong and that it had to
be ascribed to this that it was partly retained and partly not. It was
therefore desirable to make determinations of the toleration of the
kidrieys for d-galactose. Should it appear then that the galactose
could not, like the glucose, be mholly retained even in weak con-
M Hamburger and Brinkman, These Proc. 2S Sept. 1918.
') Hamburger and Brinkman, Biochem. Zeitschr., 88, 97, (1018).
