361-
centraliony, llieii tlie plieiiüiiieiiou of partial retention could not be
explained by the idea of toleration and then a second explanation
wonUi per exchisionern be the correct one.
2"'^ This second explanation could be sought in the fact that
the (l-gn lactose exists in. t.ino modifications — an a and a [i variety.
In aqueous solutions these two vai-ieties are in a state of equilibrium.
Then it had to be accepted only that one of the two modifications
was retained by the glomerular membrane, and the othei- not.
1. Toleration of the kiibieys for d-galactose.
.To determine the tolei'ation, the perfusion liquid was seasoned
with ditterent quantities of d-gaiactose lying between 0.05 "/^ and
0.25 7o- r''e following table gives a survey of I he results obtained.
It will be clear without further explanation. Let it only be remarked
that for the determination of the reduction the newest method of
Bang (1918) was employed^). Each time both kidneys of two frogs
were perfused at the same time (see table 1).
What do these experirnents teach us?
Firstly : That none of the used galactose-sohitions, whose con-
centi-ations lie, as has been said, between 0.05 "/^ and 0.25 "/, <ire
completely retained hy the kidneys. Secondly, that in all cases the
retention amounted on an average to a half, independent of the
concentration of the galactose-solution tliat was perfused.
In both respects the galactose difïers from the glucose; for, was
there nol found a total retention in the case of glucose when the
solution was weaker tlian 0.05 V^— 0.08 7, (individual differences)?
In the case of galactose, on the contrary, there is no question of
total retention. And, as regards the second point, in the case of
galactose the toleration remains unchanged in spite of the increase
in sugar concentration. Only when the concentration becomes as
high as 0.25 7o <^oes the toleration diminish. Experiments with
stronger concentrations were not made since the secretion of artificial
urine then became too scanty.
We still have at our disposal a number of former experiments
in which the reduction was determined by the earlier method of
Bang (1916), a part of which experiments have been published already.
They are found together in the following table (II). As will be noticed
the results ai'e not as uniform as those of table I, but in any case
they point in the same direction.
V Compare for this our previous article in these Proceedings.
