Physiology. — "Researches on scopolamin-viorphin narcosis". By
Dr. W. Storm van Leeuwen and Miss M. v. d. Made. (Com-
municated by Prof. Magnus).
(Communicated in the meeting of September 27, 1919).
Much work has been done on scopolamin-morphin narcosis
ever since Schnkiderlin ') introduced it into medical practice (1900).
One of tlie principal questions that occupied the workers in this
Held was, whether the administration of a mixture of these two
poisons brings about a "potentiated synergism", which Bürgi defines
as being a stronger effect of a mixture of poisons than the action
the component parts alone could lead us to expect, hi order to
ascertain whether in the scopolamin-morphin mixture "potentiation"
occurs, Hauckold ') has performed many experiments with rabbits,
KocHMANN *) with dogs and Schneiderlin with men.
Hauckold administered subcutaneously to rabbits respectively mor-
phin, scopolamin, and morphin-scopolamin and detected "potentiation".
He recorded that 5 mgr. of morphin -j- 0,5 mgr. of scopolamin per
kg. can produce narcosis in a rabbit, while 10 mgr. of morphin
and 200 mgr. of scopolamin injected separately did not produce a
narcotic effect. From this Hauckold concluded that, though scopo-
lamin per se does not bring about narcosis in a rabbit, it is never-
theless capable of activating a non-narcotic morphin-dosis. This
assertion, however, appeared to be based on erroneous observation,
first because we have demonstrated by a method to be discussed
lower down, that 0,5 mgr. of scopolamin as well as 5 mgr. of
morphin produce decidedly a narcotic effect and secondly, because
also with Hauckold's method, we found no potentiation, but merely
simple addition of effects.
Hauckold administered the scopolamin, the morphin, and the
mixture scopolamin-morphin to rabbits subcutaneously and then
^) Schneiderlin. Eine neue Narkose. Arztl. Mitt, aus u. fur Baden. Mai 1900,
quoted from Hauckold Schneiderlin. Die Skopolamin-MorphinNarkose. Munch.
Med. Wochenschr. 1903. W. 9, pag. 371.
') E. Hauckold. Ueber die Beeinflussung von Narkolicis durch Skopolamin.
Zeitschr. f. exp. Path. u. Ther. Bd. 7, pag. 743, 1910.
*) M. Kochmann. Ueber die therapeutischen Indikationen des Skopolaminum
hydrobromicum. Die Therapie der Gegenwart. 1908, pag. 202.
