387
asoertaiDed whether or no a narcosis ensued. We have i-epeated
these experiments, but since — as also Hauckoi.d observes — the
depth of the narcosis is difficult to judge in rabbits, we altered
the technique by administering on the same day the various poisons
to a series of about twenty rabbits, almost simultaneously. Every
quarter of an hour the condition of the animals was observed and
noted down, the observer not knowing what poison had been injected
into the animal under observation.
In this way we made the following experiments:
6 rabbits were given 10 mgr. of morphin per kg. subcutaneously.
6 rabbits were given 1 mgr. of scopolamin per kg. subcutaneously.
6 rabbits were given 5 mgr. morphin -|- 0,5 mgr. scopolamin per
kg. subcutaneously.
All the animals were examined regularly during 27,^3 hours.
It thereby appeared that 1 mgr. of scopolamin had only a slight
narcotic effect. The action of 10 mgr. of morphin was manifest;
that of 0,5 mgr. of scopolamin -|- 5 mgr. of morphin was less
marked than that of 10 mgr. of morphin alone; consequently
^'potentiation" was out of the question.
After this negative result we examined the narcotic effect of
scopolamin and morphin also by another method. A so-called isolated
rectusfemoris preparation was made on decerebrated rabbits and the
influence was recorded of morphin, of scopolamine and of morphin
-|- scopolamin on the homolateral contraction-reflex of the rabbit.
After a slight technical correction this method, which had already
often been applied to cats'), appeared to be well-adapted for rabbits.
The reflexes elicited in decerebrated rabbits by the faradic stimulus
were registered on a Kymograph; and afterwards the results of
every experiment were plotted. An instance of the influence of 5
mgr. of morpliin on the homolateral contraction-reflex of the rabbit
is given in Fig. 1.
In these experiments series of five rabbits were given 0,5 mgr.
of scopolamin, or 10 mgr. of morphin or 0,5 mgr. of scopolamin
-j- 5 mgr. of morphin and in all these cases the injections were
not given till it appeared that the reflexes elicited by equi-intense
stimulation were of the same magnitude. In case scopolamin -f-
morphin was given, first the scopolamin was injected and 20 minutes
later the morphin.
The effect of the injections on the magnitude of the reflexes were
1) W. Stokm van Leeuw^en, Qaantitalive pharmakologische Untersuchungen
iiber die Reflexfunktionen des Rückenmarks bei Warmblütern. I. Mitt Pflügers
Arch. Bd. 154, page 307. 1918. III. Mitt. Pflügers Arch. Bd. 165, p. 84. 1916.
