389
It is evident therefore, tiiat also if this procedure is followed there
is no trace of "potentiation", the value obtained in the mixture-
experiments not being higher, but lowei' than the sum of the actions
of morphin and scopolamin separately.
Haückoi,d and many others assume that small doses of scopolamin
do not anaesthetize a rabbit. Our experiments go to show that 0.5
mgr. of scopolamin has a distinct narcotic effect upon the magnitude
of the reflex. In conjuction with Dr. G. Liljestrand we ascertained
the influence of various doses of scopolamin on a spinal reflex of
the decerebrated rabbit. The result was that this narcotic effect does
not increase continually with an increase of the dosis, but soon reaches
an optimum and even decreases again after this (see fig. 2 firm line).
It seems that with the higher doses a stimulating effect is added to
the narcotic effect.
It miglit be generally assumed tiiat a twice larger dosis yields a twice stronger
etïect. This, however, is not the case with many of the alkaloids. When plotting
the relation between the dosis per kg. of the animal and the effect of such a
poison, the doses along the abscissae and the (narcotic) effect along the
ordinates, a curve is produced, which first ascends abruptly, and then proceeds
nearly horizontally. This is seen distinctly in fig. 2 (dotted line), borrowed
from a paper by Liljestrand, v. d. Made and Storm van Leeuwen ^), in
which the full line illustrates the narcotic effect of scopolamin in various doses
(concentration-effect curve of scopolamin).
Besides Hauckot-d, Kochmann also studied this problem. He ex-
perimented with dogs and believed that he had detected "potentiation".
Because we did not succeed in finding "potentiation" either with
Hauckold's method, nor with the one commonly used at our institute
(influence on reflexes of decerebrated animals), we have also put to
the test Kochmann's experiments.
For this purpose series of from 3 to 6 dogs were given subcu-
taneously morphin, or scopolamin or morph. -f- scop. The doses were
calculated per kg. animal.
An initial experiment was performed with the same dosis Kochmann
had used. Kochmann asserts that 5 mgr. of morphin and 0.5 mgr
of scopolamin (we suppose his doses to be given per kg. animal,
though the writer does not say so) do not of themselves produce
any narcotic eflfect on the dog, but that their joint action puts the
animal under a profound narcosis. It must be argued that this occurred
only in few cases. Our initial results seemed to substantiate Kochmann's
findings, for it appeared that in a dog 5 mgr of morj)hin -|- 0.5 mgi-
1) Liljestrand, v. d. Made and Storm van Leeuwen. Zur Konzentrations-
Wirkungskurve des Skopolamins. Appears in Pflugers Arch. 1919.
