391
to investigate the action of different quanta of morphin on the dog.
The resuhs obtained were that doses smaller than 1,5 mgr. had but
little narcotic effect or none at all ; that 1,5 mgr. yields a distinct
action, 2,5 mgr. a narcotic action, which is considerably stronger,
while the effect of 5 mgr. differs little from that of 2,5 and finally
that, as said above, the influence exerted by JO mgr. is about
equal to that of 5 mgr. If we should draw a curve of this peculiar
relation between action and concentration, a so-called concentration-
effect curve, it would again rise abruptly at the outset and then
again proceed about horizontally, just like 'the curve representing
the action of morphin and of scopolin on the reflexes of the rabbit.
After it had thus appeared that the action of 5 mgr. of morphin
-)- 0,5 mgr. of scop, agrees with that of JO mgr. of morphin, but
still is not greater than that of 5 mgr. of morphin alone, we tried
to find out whether the action of smaller doses of morphin was
intensified by scopolamin. An injection of 2,5 mgr. of morpli. per
kg. was given to two dogs I and II, and to two other dogs III
and IV 2,5 mgr. of morph. -\- 0,5 mgr. of scop, per kg.
was administered. The narcosis of dog III was as profound
as that of I and II, but that of IV was considerably le.ss
profound than that of I and 11. The inevitable conclusion, therefore,
is that scopolamin inhibited the action of morphin, so it did not
bring about "potentiation" at all. This result was confirmed by a
series of experiments with dogs, in which some received 1,5 mgr.
of morphin and others J, 5 mgr. of morph. -f- 0,5 mgr. of scop.
The narcosis with the former group was invariably more profound
than that of the second.
It follows from these experiments that although narcotic symptoms
are generated by scopolamin in doses of from 0,5 to 1 mgr. per
kg., this poison has also a distinct stimulating effect on the dog.
When small doses of morphin are mixed with scopolamin, the result
is the algebraic sum of the effects of the two components and the
narcotic effect of the morphin antagonizes in part the stimulating
effect of the scopolamin. With larger doses of morphin the stimulat-
ing effect of the scopolamin falls back, while it would seem that
the narcotic effect of morphin is sometimes reinforced in a small
degree by the scopolamin, however in such a small degree that it
cannot be called "potentiation", but is merely to be considered as
a simple addition.
Upon the evidence founded upon veiy accurate experiments
ScHNEiDERLiN coucluded that in men the scop-morph. combination
produces a real "potentiated" narcotic effect. He administered a rather
26
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXII.
