410
as tlie |jro[)ioii3lsiil|)liuric acid, when liydrol^zed, neutralizes tliree
equivalents of a basis, and tlie snlplionic acid only two equivalenls.
The sulphopropionic acid was se|)araled and weijü,lied in (he form
of its barjumsaU. From J molecule propionic acid wilh sulphur-
trioxide we got an average jieid of 0.35 mol. sul|)hopropionic acid,
and from 1 mol. propionic acid anhydride with sul[)huric acid
(monohydrate) 0.55 mol.
Compared with Franchimont's method, the reaction with sulphur-
trioxide is experimentally less simple. The reaction is violent, the
product is more coloured, the barynmsalt likewise, and the yield is
various. Oidy for the prej)aration of large quantities may the reaction
be recommended.
Franchimont's reaction, however, is very easy to carry out; but
it is a drawback, that only half the j)ropionic acid anhydride can
be transformed into the sulphonic acid, the other half returning to
propionic acid.
We have therefore tried to combine the advantages of both
methods, the better yield of the tirst and the greater purity of the
product obtained by the second.
For this purpose, it is possible to mix propionic acid anhydride
with sulphuric acid, and to ti-eat the product, containing one
molecule free propionic acid, with the equimolecular quantity of
sulphurtrioxide.
However, it is simpler to let the pi-opionic acid anhydride react
directly with pyrosulpkuric acid.
(CHj . C0),0 + H,S,0» = 2 CH, . CHISO^H) . CO,H.
By this method we got an average yield of 0.75 mol. sulphonic
acid from J mol. propionic acid anhydride.
As the pyrosulphuric acid may be added in the crystallized state
to the pro[)ionic acid, the method is easier than the reaction with
sulphurtrioxyde. The reaction proceeds more quietly and the product
is purer.
AVe have applied this method to acetic acid anhydride also, but
for such an easily accessible substance, the original method of
Franchimont is simpler.
For the sulj)liura(ion of precious carbonic acid anhydrides, the
method just described may, however, be recommended for its
higher yield.
Groningen, Sept. 8, 1919. Org. Chew Lab. of the JJniv.
