Mathematics. — "Some applications of the quasi-unifonn convergence
on sequences of real and of holomorphic functions ' . By Prof.
J. Wolff. (Coinmunicated hy Prof. L. E. J. Brouwer).
(Communicated in the meeting of September 27, 1919).
We consider a region G of the coinplex plane, and a sequence
of functions /i,/\, ■ ■ ■ ■ whicii are all analytical within G. If tlie
sequence converges uniformly in any closed region within G, then
the limiting function ƒ is analytical within G. This theorem however,
enunciated by Weikrstrasz, has of late been considerably extended.
If it is knowji that the sequence convei-ges at the points of a set
having a point of the interior of G for a limiting point, and
besides, that (he sequence is uniformly limited in every closed
region internal to G, then this is alieady sufficient to conclude to
the uniform convergence of the sequence in any closed region
within G, which involves that the limiting function ƒ is analylieaP).
This same conclusion may be di-awn, G being a circle, if only the
sequence of functions is supposed to be uniformly limited within
00
G and convergent at the points Zj,z^, . . ., such that 77 (2/c— 2,) =- 0,
1
where z„ is the centre of G and Zky^^o^)'^ also if it is only supposed
that there exist two definite numbers a and /; such that nowhei'e
in the interior of (r one of these two values is assumed by a
function of the sequence, and besides that the sequence converges
at the points of a set having a point internal to G for a limiting
point'). None of these theorems lead to other sequences of functions
than those whicli are embraced already by Wkii-irstrasz' theorem.
The question now could be raised whether it is possible that
a sequence of functions, each of which is analytical within a
region G, may converge to a function, analytical within (r, without
this coiivergence i^eing uniform in every closed region contained in
G. That such sequences actually exist is shown by an example,
1) G. ViTALi. Aiinali di Malematica, Serie 3% tomo 10 (1904), p. 65.
For a simple proof vide a.o. Verb, der Kon. Ac. v. W., dl. 27 (1918), p. 319.
') W. Blaschke. Leipz. Berichte, Band 67 (1915), p. 194.
*) C. Carathéodory and E. Landau. Sitz. Ber. Ak. v. W. Berlin, Band 32
(1911), p. 587.
