PhysiologF. — ''On Sprai/'Electriciti/ and Waterf all- Electricitif' .
By Prof. H. Zwaardemaker and Dr. F. Hogewind.
(Gommunicaled in the meeting of October 25, 1919).
The generation of Spray-eleetricit}' and that of Waterfall-electricity
are no doubt cognate processes ; still thej are bj no means identical.
It may perhaps be useful, therefore, that we should here enlarge
upon their congruencj and their difference.
Spray electricity is generated when the air causes walerdrops to
break up and diffuse; waterfall-electricity is evolved when existing
waterdrops strike against a boundary plane of air-liquid or air-solid
substance. This induces electrification of the spray-nebula at the very
spot where the cloud arises, whereas the electrical charge of the
waterfall does not take its beginning before the water reaches the
bottom. In either case small and large drops are formed with opposite
charges. Both with spray-electricity and with waterfall-electricity the
surrounding air is laden to a large distance with those diminutive
droplets, driven off in all directions.
With spraying the large drops follow their primitive course till
they strike on some impediment or other. These drops have become
electrified long before they encounter this impediment. In the case
of waterfall-electricity, however, large drops as well as small ones
form at the very moment when the electric charge begins, i.e. the
moment when the jet collides with the impediment.
In either case the conditions of
'•pressure"
and ''temperature"
largely reinforce the electrical effect. An overpressure of two atmos-
pheres yields notably moi-e electricity than one atmosphere. To obtain
a considerable reinforcement of spray-electi'icity it is oidy necessary
to store up the nebula in a space, whose temperature is 10° higher.
Likewise waterfall-electricity will be considerably increased by heat-
ing the reservoir from which the waterfall proceeds. The presence
of an electric field will augment either in a marked degree.
