430
The distance at wliicli the disc, doin^- duly for an impedinnent,
is arranged, has an intlnence upon eitlier.
In (lie case of spi-ay-electricity there is an 0|)tin)al and a critical
distance. Accordijig to Lknard ') wnterfull-elecfricitj augments with
the distance of the disc.
However, the liquid medium and the small chemical additions
are of consequence. In most experiments water was the medium,
but parafiinum liquidum will also generate spray-electricity, while
waterfall-electricity can be obtained also with mercury. We have
chiefl}^ noted the influence of small additions of known chemical
nature.
Spray-electricity is markedly raised by the addition of substances
that lower the surface-tension and aie moreover volatile (odorous
matter, antipyretica, narcotica, alkaloids). It may thereby rise to
an amount which wateifall-electricity cannot approach by far.
Perfectly pure loater does not yield spray-electricity that is distin-
guishable loith an ordinary electroscope. *)
Traces of odorous matter are capable of rendering it excessive.
Spray-electricity, therefore is a weans to detect the presence of small
amounts of odorous matter otherwise than by the sense of smell.
Pure water of itself generates waterfall-electricity, as the water
becomes positively electric at the moment of its collision.
Minute additions of odorous matter, gustatory substances, colloidal
substances, modify the charge of the water considerably, noiv in a
positive, now in a negative sense.
IjRNAKD was the first who studied this problem in 1892, and im-
mediately put forward an interpretation '), which he altered a little
and extended iji a subsequent publication. *)
In our experiments we made use of Lenard's apparatus, with
slight alterations.
A strong metal cylinder of ± 2^ liter capacity, with the lid
attached to it hermetically by three screws, is provided at the bot-
tom with a metal pipe with a tap. The pipe terminates in a glass
tube with a fine outlet (1 mm. in diameter). In the lid there are
two apertures, one of which is connected with the supply-pipe of
the compressor with a gas-chambei' of 2 m.' capacity, while the
other which is closed with a screw-stopper, subserves the filling of
the cylinder.
^) P. Lenard : "Ueber die Elektricitat der Wasserfalle". Wied. Ann. 46.p. 584. 1892
') Unless in the presence of an electric field.
') P. Lenard: *Ueber die Elektricitat der Wasserfalle". Wied. Ann. 46— 1892.
*) Id. id, "Ueber Wasserfallelektricitat". Ann. der Physik. Bd. 47—1915.
