431
Inside the supply-pipe of the gas-cliamber an amber tube of ±
27, cm. is fitted for isolation, besides two taps: the one close to the
cylinder, the other near the main-pipe leading to the gas-chamber.
The whole cylinder is suspended in a trivet from which it is
insulated by amber pins.
The outlet is placed at about J m. over a large glass receiving-
reservoir, in which a zinc plate rests on two wooden blocks. This
tank is connected by a conducting-wire with the metal cylinder.
In its turn the reservoir is isolated from the environment by a
parafiin-plale supported on four amber feet.
The whole apparatus is connected by a conducting-wire to an
earthed electroscope.
Thus the cylinder, the receiving-reservoir and the electroscope are
connected inter se by an electric circuit; they are at the same time
insulated fi-om the environment.
The pressure in the air-pump and the gas-chamber, registered by
a manometer, is brought up to two atmospheres, the cylinder is
filled with i Liter of the liquid to be examined, and the two taps
in the supply-pipe are opened, so that the liquid in the cylinder is
subjected to a pressure of 2 atmospheres. Now when the lower tap
is turned on, the fluid flows under a high pressure out of the glass
tube and strikes at an angle of 90" against the zinc plate below it.
This produces positive or negative electricity according to the nature
of the liquid and causes a deflection of the electroscope.
The deflection, registered by the electroscope after 1 minute's
perfusion, is taken as the index for waterfall-electricity.
The entire apparatus being of a rather large capacity the electroscope
takes some time before deflecting, which does not occur before the
whole capacity is electrified. This takes more time with some liquids
than with others.
For this reason the stopwatch is not put in operation before the
electroscope begins to deflect and the liquid then continues flowing
for a full minute after this.
During the experiment the room is well aired, because the air in
the room is also charged and that in a sense opposite to the charge
of the liquid. It is obvious that this would greatlj^ interfere with
the electrification of the liquid in the subsequent experiments.
Moreover, the receiving reservoir is covered with a close-mesh
iron gauze, provided with a circular opening in (he middle, through
which the jet passes. This gauze serves to keep back the migrating
droplets and possible foam, and to allow the extremely hazy nebula
to spread in the surrounding air.
