432
Our staridai'd-liquid was pine (apwalor, which yielded a mean
(leHection of 50 scale-marks. The Uti-echt (apvvater is very pure
and contains few salts. In addition the temperature is pretty
constant, which is of great importance, since temperature very much
influences water-electricity.
A control-test with water was inserted between every set of two
experiments, in oi'der to ascertain the accuracy of tlie apparatus.
Furthermoi'e the cylinder was washed out witii tapwater after
each experiment to remove small quanta of lingering electrifying
substances, which might render the results of the following experi-
ments less reliable.
In the case of water-electricity we found that odorous substances
did not all act in the same way. Most of them reinforced the
positive charge of the water; others hardly moditied it or did not
do so at all ; a few again even weakened it so as to excite a
negative charge. All this occui-red seemingly without any special
method. It is true, stronger concentrations (which are insignificant
with • the ahnost always slightly soluble odorous substances)
generally give a greater increase or decrease. Besides, in the
homologous series we found an augmentation of the deflection
according as we passed from the lower to the higher terms.
For the present it seems utterly impossible to draw a hard-and-
fast line, separating the reinforcing from the weakening odorous
substances.
That waterfall-electricity is not identical with spray-electricity,
may appear e. g. from the behaviour of indol, which markedly in-
creases the charge in the former, but is almost inoperative with
the second.
Conversely thymol e. g. gives a strong nebula-charge and hardly
any waterfall-electricity.
Another instance is that of />w/i-distilled water, which very
distinctly intensified waterfall-electricity, whereas it remains inactive
in spraying.
We subjoin a list of some odorous substances with their charges
in the numerator of the fraction and the deflection of tapwater in
the denominator, as we noted them down directly after the reading.
The sign of the charge is also given :
Phenol V,... N. sol. : -f ^»7b«
Cressol V,„„„ N. sol. : + "7.,,
XylenolV.ooo N. sol. : -f' -/,„ .
