436
which tlie water vapour maj condense into droplets and with wliicli
salt-droplets may connbine afferwards.
Lenakd ') believes that in the superficial layers of every di-electric
liquid there is not only an electric double-layei', generated by the
molecular forces of the liquid itself, the negative layer being situated
on the outside, but also that these layers differ as to material.
These differences, which vary with the substances dissolved in the
liquid (electrolytes, volatile substances, complex molecules) affect the
thickness and the strength of the electric double-layer.
It appears then that Lknard reduces the pi'oblem of the origin of
waterfall-electricity and of spray-electricity to his hypothesis regard-
ing the specific condition of the surface of every di-electric liquid.
Strictly the origin of the electrification would then be, not
an emission of electrons, but a discharge of extremely fine droplets,
the so-called "carriei's", which, varying with the surface condition
of the li([uid, are either very small and charged negatively, because
they take their origin entirely from the outer negatively charged
layer of the liquid, or the}' are somewhat larger and may be posi-
tively charged, since the majority of them arise from the interior
positive layer of the liquid.
For further particulars we refer to Lenard's article itself
Suflice it to state that most of our results with waterfall-electricity
are sufficiently explained by this theorj'.
Not however the intensifying influence of rise of temperature
(Lenard's private opinion, founded on theoretical considerations, was
that a lessening influence was to be looked for).
Neither does this theory explain why camphor and bornylacetate
diminish waterfall-electricity ; no more is the question of the inten-
sifying action of the sweet substances and the colloidal substances
settled by it.
The results obtained before in the Utrecht Physiological Laboratory
in experiments on spray-electricity *) are much less easy to explain
with the aid of this theory.
First of all pure tapwater (Utrecht Water Company) and fresh-
distilled water (old-distilled water w active) give no or an inappreciable
charge in spraying.
Secondly the intensification of the charge in consequence of addition
1) P. Lenard. Ueber Wasserfallelektricitat. Ann. der Physik. Bd. 47 — 1915.
') H. Zw^AARDEMAKER. Het in overmaat geladen zijn van reukstof houdende
nevels. Verslagen K. A. v. Wetensch. Deel XIX N". ].
H. Zwaardemaker. Specifieke reukkracht en odoroscopisch ladingsverschijnsel
in homologe reeksen, fd. Deel XIX W. 2.
