437
of an active snbstanoe, is genei-ally much greater with sprajiiig than
with the waterfall.
Thirdly, according to Lknakd's theory, salt-solutions yield a distinct
negative waterfall electricity; on the other hand they did not give a
charge with spraying ^).
Finally Lenakd's theory j)roves the bigger positive carriers of a
common salt solution to contain sodium ; the smaller negative carriers
on the contrary consist of pure water molecules. This he demon-
strated by bringing the carriers between the plates of a condenser,
in which process the bigger positive Na-containing carriers went over
to the negatively charged condenser-plate where the presence of
sodium could be proved. The smaller negatively charged carriers
went over to the positive plate, where no sodium could be found.
A similar experiment with spraijed salt-solution ^) shows that the
big, positive carriers as well as the small negative ones contain
sodium.
We conclude, therefore, that though there is a correlation between
waterfall-electricity and spray-electricity, they are obviously not
quite identical.
H. ZwAAKDEMAKER. Reukstofmengscls en bun laadvermogen door nevelelectriciteit
Id. Deel XXV HO Sept. 1916.
H. Zwaardemaker. Le sens de I'adsorption des Subst. Volatiles Acta Oto-lary-
agologica.
H. Zv^AARDEMAKER en H. Zeehutsen. Over bet teeken v. b. ladingverscbijnsel
en de bij dit verschijnsel waargenomen invloed op de lyotrope reeksen. Verslagen
K. A. v. VVetenscb. deel XXVH 1918.
E. L. Backman. De olfactologie der metbylbenzolreeks. ld. Deel XXV 27 Jan. '17.
E. L. Backman. Ueber die Verstaubungselektricilat der Riecbstoffe. Arch. f. d.
ges. Pbys. Bd. 168 S. 351.
C. HuYER. De olfactologie v. aniline en homologen. Diss. "Onderz." (5) Deel
XVIII, p. 1, 89.
1) Afterwards we succeeded in demonstrating a slight negative charge also with
spraying a 1 "^/o common salt solution by lessening the capacity of the receiving
disc. This charge, however, is not nearly so great as the one evoked in the
waterfall and is far inferior to the spray-electricity generated by additions of
volatile substances and of substances that activate the surface.
2) A. Stefanini and G. Gradenigo. hibalazione di Nebbië Salina Secche. Lucca
1914, p. 22.
