Physiology. — ''The Action of Atropin on the Intestine depending
on its amount of Choliii' . By Dr. J. W. \iv: Heux. (Commu-
nicated by Prof. R. Magnus).
(Communicated in the meeting of September 27, 1919).
The action of atropin on the intact, isohiteij small intestine of
mammals has been the snbject of a considerable amount of experi-
ments, but no explanation, could be found for the various and widely
different results achieved hy the several authors. ')
While Magnus'') established that the isolated intestine of the cat,
in Ringkr's solution, is paralysed in large doses of atropin (0,3 "/o).
but mostly reacts on moderate quanta of atropin (0,025 -0,075 7o)
with symptoms of stimulation, the pendulum movements, executed
by the intestine, getting more regular, especially when the movements
of the intestine were previously insignificant, also an inhibiting
effect of very small atropin-doses (0,005 — 0,05°/,) was demonstrated
by [Ingkr '). Other reseaichers also sometimes found this (paralysing)
effect, sometimes they did not. In the isolated small intestine of
rabbits and dogs Kress '') noted stimulation consequent on moderate
amounts of atropin, paralysis through large quanta, wdiereas others
again obtained widely vai-ying results. Iji most cases small quantities
of atropin caused inhibition in the small intestine of rabbits, whereas
moderate atropin-doses alternately stimulated and paralysed the gut
without any regularity.
According to P. Trendelenburg ^) the intact intestine of the rabbit
reacts regularly on small quanta of atropin with paralysis, but on
moderate quantities now with symptoms of stimulation, now with
paralysis.
According to the same writer^) an exception, to irregular behaviour
1) An extensive survey of the literature is given by G. Liljestrand, Pflüger's
Archiv, Bd. 175, p. HI, 1919.
2) R. Magnus, Versuche am iiberlebenden Dünndarm von Saugetieren. I. Mitt,
r^flüger's Archiv. Bd. 108, pag. 1, 1905.
') M. Unger, Beitrage zur Kennlnis der VVirkungsweise des Alropins und Physo-
stigmins auf den Dünndarm von Katzen. Pflüger's Archiv. Bd. 119, pag. 373, 1907.
^) K. Kress, VVirkungsweise einiger Gifte auf den isolierten Dünndarm von
Kaninchen und Hunden. Pflüger's Archiv. Bd. 109, pag. 608, 1905.
*) P. Trendelenburg, Physiol, u. Pharmacol. Untersuchungen über Dünndarm-
peristatiek. Schmiedeberg's Archiv. Bd. 81, pag. 55, 1907.
