23
(11) is real and not greater than 1, a fixed integration-path W for
the remaining integral may be chosen, as soon as the number n
attains a certain magnitude, and for this we may take the imaginary
axis in this case. The proof that liin /?„ =i for ?* =z go is then very
simple, so that the above mentioned particular cases in which a
function can be expanded in a binomial series, may be derived in
a sliort manner from Cauchy's integral.
As further regards the question, how far the inequality (7) is
necessary for the expansion of a function in a binomial series, the
way in which i\\e sufjicieni condition has been obtained gives us the
conviction that the aggregate of functions determined by the latter
condition is as large as possible. In order to come to certainty
concerning this it is necessary to investigate how a function represented
b}' a binomial series behaves in the domain of convergence of that
series. This investigation may be effected by means of the statement,
contained in the theorem of Pincherle, that a binomial series
necessarilj' represents a coe f ficient function, at least in the domain of
absolute convergence of that series, for to this only the proposition
of Pincherle applies.
For simplicity we assume for the binomial series the original form
(1), which is the one considered by Pincherle. If the characteristic
A' of the coefficients d is less than — 1, then, as already mentioned,
the binomial series can be represented by the integral (6) in the
half-plane R{x) ^ 0, It can now be proved that this integral satisfies,
in the domain mentioned, the condition (7), with 7 ^ 0, the exponent
/ being subject to the inequality
l<-h+<i (14)
where 6 is an arbitrarily small positive number. This condition can
further be specified by extending a certain property of the opei-ation
I by means of which, according to the view of Pincherle, the gene-
rating function (f{t) passes into the coefficient-funcrion to(.t;) ; we
mean the property expressed by the equation
This equation is given by Pincherle (I.e. p. 30) for the case r is
a positive integer. If r is replaced by — « and (f{t) by ff{t):{t — lY,
the formula passes into
/
r(.r)
_(^-i)^j
15)
The last equation appears indeed to be true for arbitrary positive
