439
of the gut of various species of animals towards atroj)in is afforded
by the small intestine of the guinea-pig, which is regularly inhibited
by atropin, a question to which we will revert in this paper.
It is evident from this shoi't survey that the behaviour of the
intestine of different mammals towards small and moderate quanta
of atropin is varying and inconstant. No doubt the researchers who
obtained these various results, have been working under incongruous
circumstances. As yet no one has succeeded in accounting for their
conflicting results.
From experiments by v. Lidth dk Jeude ') it appeared distinctly
that the explanation is not to be looked for in the different compo-
sition of the salt-solution, in which the isolated intestine was examined.
LiLJESTRAND *) sliowed that the various results could neither be
ascribed to the different composition of the atropin-preparations; he
is rather inclined to believe that the explanation can be found in
the gut itself. The object of the present paper is to verify this
conception.
Weiland') has demonstrated that from the stomach, the small
intestine and the large intestine a coctastable substance can be
abstracted through extraction with water, which has the property
of urging on the movement of the gut, and that this stimulating
action can be ai'i'ested antagonistically by small quantities of atropin.
It afterwai'ds turned out'') that this substance consists for the greater
part of cholin and that it cari be obtained from the small intestine
of the rabbit to such a quantity that it must act a prominent part
in evolving the automatic intestinal movements.
Now cholin belongs pharmacologically to the group of pilocarpin ;
the stimidating effect exercised by cholin, just as by pilocarpin, on
the gut is antagonised by slight quantities of atropin.
Van Lidth de Jkude ^) showed by his experiments that the quanta
of atropin required to check the pilocarpin-action upon the gut, are
very slight; already a concentration of atropin of 1 to 10 — 50
million will do. Now I found that the atropin-concentrations, necessary
M A. P. V. Lidth de Jeude, Quantitatieve onderzoekingen over het antagonisme
van sulfas atropini enz. Thesis. Utrecht 1916.
3) G. LiLJESTRAND, Ic.
2) Weiland, Zur Kenntnis der Entstehung der Darmbewegung. Pfliiger's Archiv.
Bd. 147, pag. 171, 1912.
^) J. W. LE Heux, Choline als Hormon der Darmbewegung. Pfliiger's Archiv.
Bd. 173, pag. 8, 1918.
») A. P. v. Lidth de Jeude, l.c
29
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXII.
