440
to induce a leniporaiT iiiliibitioii of llie iiilesdiial niovenieiils, fall
within tlie .same liiuit8.
When t'on»bining these facts, the question arises whether perhaps
the inhibition of small atro[)in-doses is to be considered as an antagonisni
for the cholin present in the intestinal wall.
If this is tiie case, the inhibition of small (piantities of atropin,
will not appear when the cholin has been previously removed from
the intestinal wall, but it will come forth again after the addition
of cholin and subsecjuent administration of atropin.
Aside from this inhibition of small quantities of atropin, its actual
intlnence is, according to Magnus's') experiments, one that stimulates
AuKRBACHs's plexus. It is only large quantities that paralyse the nerve
centra and muscles of the intestinal wall.
The action of these latter quantities we leave out of considei-ation.
Experimental evidence in support of the above hypothesis may be
obtained in the following way :
I'^f A gut, inhibited originally by small quantities of atropin, is
to be brought into a condition in which a small quantity of atropin
is without effect, through re[)eated washings, so that cholin is
removed from the intestinal wall.
2"'^ The atropin-effect is to reappear in this gut after giving cholin.
S^'f^ A gut, which is originally inhibited by moderate quantities
of atropin, is to be brought, through repeated washing, into a
condition, in which the same quantity of atropin has only a stimu-
appeared lating effect.
The experiments made to prove this, were performed with the
isolated small intestine of rabbits and guinea-pigs, which, as had
before, are provided with rich quantities of cholin and — as may
be expected, readily give them off to the environing fluid.
Experiment.'^ loi.th the small intestine of the rabbit.
In the experiments with the small intestine of the rabbit a diffi-
culty arose in that after some days the spontaneous movements
dimmished with the washing out of the cholin. which made the
results less clear.
Turning to account Laqukur's *) experience that loops of intestine
1) R. Magnus, Versuche am überlebenden Dünndarm von Saugetieren. V. Mitt,
Pflüger's Archiv. Bd. 108, pag. 1, 1905.
2) E. Laqueur, Over den levensduur van geïsoleerde zoogdier-organen met
automatische functie. Verslagen Kon. Akademie v. Wetenschappen Ie Amsterdam.
24 April 1914, XXII, p. 1318.
