442
away most cases, vvliile al (lie same time the loniis was more or
less loweied.
This is exemplitied in Fig. 2. In a few cases the iiiilial iiifiibilion,
caused by this moderate quantity of atropin, was followed by a
rather strong stimulation.
This occurred, when the loops had already been cleaned .several
times, so that the gnt had reached a stage, in which the iidiibition
of moderate atropin doses passes into a slimnlating action. The next
day some loops were again severed from the gut which had been
kept standing during the night in horse-serum at a low temperature ;
after having been carefully washed free from the adherent serum
they were suspended as before. Every ten minutes these loops were
cleaned with fresh Tyrode solution. One of them (we always took
the same) was experimented on to ascertain whether 0.01 mgr. of
atropin still evolved iidiibition on the movements. If it did not, the
other loops of intestine were cleaned again some times and examined
with regard to their behaviour towards atropin.
In the great majority of cases it appeared again that a small
amount of atropin (0,01 mgi-.) did not cause the slightest change in
movements or tonus, but that after administering 15 nigr. of atropin
a stimulation of the intestinal movements together with a large in-
crease of tonus was noticeable. See Fig. 3. Over and beyond all this
the ])rimitive inhibition of the atropin could be elicited again in this
stage of the expei'iment, if a small amount of cholin (1 — 2 mgr.)
had previously been added to the loops.
We did not always succeed in reaching this stage already on the
second day, so that it proved necessary to keep the gut in the
repeatedly refreshed horse-serum some days longer, in order to arrive
at a condition in which small doses of atropin do not affect the gut,
which again had been cleaned repeatedly with Tyrode solution.
We also succeeded in obtaining this condition by merely cleaning
the gut with Tyrode solution, i.e. without the appliance of horse-
serum. It is true, though, that, as mentioned before, the movements
will become smaller then, and the results less clear. This pi'oves,
however, that the results are not influenced by horse-sei-nm.
In the foregoing we have thus shown for the rabbit's small intestine:
1'"^ . that repeated washing, which, as demonstrated before, deprives
the intestinal wall of cholin, evolves a condition in which the initial
inhibition of small amounts of atropin, is arrested.
2"^. that by administering cholin this inhibition of atropin may
be elicited again.
