- 445
The i-esnlts obtained Uy our experimeiils put us iu a position to
view tiie variable action of atropin on the gut in a new light and
to interpret the contlieting results of the various researchers.
In the living animal cholin is present in the intestinal wall in
such quantities that they stimulate Auerbach's plexus. On removal,
to a certain extent, of the cliolin from the surviving gut by a pro-
longed washing, the real action of atropin manifests itself distinctly.
According to the earlier experiments of Magnus ^) it consists in a
stimulation of Aukhbach's plexus by moderate quanta, whereas only
very large doses paralyse the centra, the nerve, and the muscle.
Originally the intestinal movements are not affected by small quan-
tities of atropin.
It is, therefore, upon the presence of more or less cholin in the
intestinal wall that the atropin-action depends.
Cholin has a stimulating effect upon Auerbach's plexus, which is
antagonised by atropin. So long as an adequate quantity of cholin
is present in the intestinal wall, a small dosis of atropin will inhibit
the cholin action and consequently inhibit the intestinal movements.
The result of the action of moderate quantities of atropin will
depend on the circumstance whether the immediate stimulating
action on the plexus, or the antagonism for cholin preponderates.
In case the gut contains little cholin the stimulating action comes
to the front, in case it contains much cholin the antagonism (inhibition)
predominates. With a moderate cholin-content a stimulation will
succeed an initial inhibition.
Likewise we are now enabled to account for the results of earlier
researches.
The fact that with the cat's small intestine the stimulating eflfect
of moderate quanta of atropin occurs more often than with the
rabbit's or the guinea-pig's, tallies with our experience that the
former contains less cholin than the latter two.
On the other hand it stands to reason that with theguinea-pig gut,
which was always found to be rich in cholin, the inhibition of ati-opin
appears regularly.
It is obvious now why the isolated rabbit's gut, according to the
previous treatment, is now inhibited by atropin, now again is
stimulated, while on the other hand the intact gut, which could not
be liberated from cliolin by washing, is according to Trendelenburg')
inhibited regularly.
•) R. Magnus. I.e.
3) P. Trendelenburg, I.e.
