Zoology. — "-The Interrelations of the species belonging to the
genus Satuniia, judged by the colour-pattern of their wings.''
By Prof. J. F. van Bemmb:len.
(Communicated in the meeting of May 3, 1919).
Ill liis liandbook of Palaearcfic Macrolepidoptera Standfuss says
on p. J 06, at the end of his passage on the relative age of the three
species Saturn i a spini, pavonia and pjri: "If we exclusively
paid attention to the imagines, much might be said in favour of
the opinion, that spini is older than pavonia. For both sexes of
spijl i, and likewise those of the new species fi-om Kasikoparan (S.
C 6 p h a 1 a r i a e Ch.) discovered as late as 1 882, possess a remar-
kably uniform type. From this type the male of S. pavonia
sharply deviates, this species thereby appearing as recently changed
in its imaginal dress. But as to the question if we should place the
origin of Sat. pyri before the evolution of these minor forms or
after it, the imago of this latter species does not seem fit to allow-
of a really certain conclusion.
In regard to the caterpillar- and pupal-stage, however, things are
different. For these it caji be clearly proved that S. s p i n i, pavonia
and pyri form in many instances three different degrees of protec-
tive resemblance against certain hostile factors of the outer world.
In this scale every where spini occupies the lowest, pyri the highest
degree. Keeping in view the excessively near relation and the
great similarity of biological conditions between the three species,
we are obliged to assume that spini came into existence before
pavonia, and pavonia before pyri, or, using the scientific ex-
pression for these relations: that phylogenetically spini is the oldest,
pavonia a younger, p y r i the youngest form. For it evidently would
be absurd to assume that in a series of so intimately related forms,
the more perfect living being should have originated at an earlier
date than the less perfect one".
These considerations of Standfuss induced me to compare the
wing- markings of Saturnine-species, as well among themselves as
with those of related genera, to see if this line of investigation did
or did not lead to corresponding results as the inspection of the
caterpillars.
