448
In accordance wifli the general rules for llie character of the
wing-markings, which 1 thought ni} self jnstified in proclaiming, and
wiiicli I tested as to their applicahilii v to snch families as Hepialids,
Cossids, Arctiïds and Sphingids, I came to the conclusion that not
pjri but pavonia should be considered as the oldest form. For
in pavonia the festooned submarginal transvei'se lines and bands
deviate less from the 'outer wing-margin and also show a smaller
difference between their anterior and posterior extremity, the sub-
marginal band therefore having the simplest and least irregular
tvpe. In the same way the difference between fore- and hindwing,
as well on their upper- as on their underside — and therefore also
between the superior and inferioi' surface of each of the wings for
itself — , is smaller in ()avonia than in the two other species.
In comparison to other Bombycids and to the remaining families
of Heterocera, the colour- pattern of pavonia shows a greater simi-
larity to the general primordial pattern of seven dark transversal
bars, which I deduced from the comparison of all these forms,
than the two other Saturn ids. It might seem that this assertion is
contradicted by the fact, that in pavonia the male at first sight
looks entirely ditferent from the female by its colour as well as
by its inferior size, a difference which has apparently made a deep
impression on Standfuss. But on nearer inspection and consideration
the difference is by no means so important as it looks, and need
not be regarded as of high importance. For the difference in hues
is evidently connected with the frequently occurring feature of
discoloration (i. e. partial self-colour) by which on the superior
surface the hindwing has partially turned into yellow, while at the
underside the same hue has spread over the proximal part of the
forewing. On both wings this discoloration is accompanied by a
slight and incomplete fading of the pattein.
Moreover it may be doubted, on very sound arguments, if the
yellow hue — apart from its s[)reading over the dominion of spots
and stripes, which are rendered more or less invisible by it' —
should be considered as a secondary modification of an older and
more original hue, which latter therefore should have persisted on
the upperside of the forewing and on the uiuierside of the hind
one. For this yellow-biowji hue is characteristic for quite a number
of Bombycine moths belonging to different genera, and in so far
impresses us as a very original colour. It might therefore be
assumed, that its occurrence in the male of pavonia should be
considered as a reversion to an older condition, instead of being
the appearance of a new hue.
