449
Bilt we may safely leave these questions iiiilieeded, for the hues
in wiiit'h a pattern is executed, need not be taken into consideration,
neither in tliis case nor in otliers, when judging the character of
the pnttern itself.
Now, if we carefully compare the markings of the male with
those of the female and pay due attention to the half-vanished
8tripes and spots under the overspreading yellow, it becomes clear,
that down to the minutest details, male and female agree in pattern.
No more is there any necessity to consider the sexual dimorphism as
an important progi-essive feature, by which pavonia should distin-
guish itself from spini and pyri, and be characterised as a recently
and sti-ongly modified form, in contrast to the other two, which
would have lemained more conservative. For secondary and ter-
tiary sexual diflerences occur in all kinds of Lepidoptera, as well
as in otliei' insects. In the Bombycine moths this feature shows
itself in a remarkably high number of forms. Now have we really
to consider each of these cases as a separate and independent devi-
ation from a common original condition, in which male and female
were alike in shape, size, hues and pattern? Or did the phenomenon
of sexual dimorphism already show itself amongst primitive Bom-
bycidae, in the days when the diffei-ence between them was less
considei-able than at present, and they still counted fewer specific
and varietal forms; dimorphic species therefore then existing side
by side with monomorphic as well as now. In this case the sexual
dimorphism of pavonia might repose on the manifestation or the
permanency of an old hei'editary disposition.
But even apart from this question, which can hardly be solved
with certainty, it remains doubtful, if the species pyri and
spini should really be considered older than p a v o n i a, on
account of the similarity of their sexes. For I by no means consider
it as proved, that in pavonia the male, which deviates from
the general hue of the genus, may be considered as the modified
form, while the female, which seems to show so much more
similarity to spini and pyri, may be regarded as the unchanged
form.
When the general rules for the coloiir-paltern are blindly
applied the solution of this question might seem easy enough.
In the female of pavonia as well as in both sexes of spini
and pyri the fore- and hindwings on their upper- as well as on
their underside, show the same clear whitish hue, here and there
overspread with a black sprinkling, and subdivided into fragments
by nervural and transversal straight or undulating lines. But this
