450
general clear tint, reigning over llie whole extension of tlie wings,
as well as the similarity in design hetween fore- and hijidnings,
upper- and underside, impresses nie as a secondarily acquired
unifornnity, rather than as a really original feature.
In my opinion we meet here with a similar case as in the
wholly selfcoloured bultertlies e. g. G o n e |) t e r y x r h a m n i
or A por i a crataegi, in which without the least doubt the
uniform hue is the consequence of the simplilication of the shades,
hand in hand with the total or partial regression of the markings.
Still more striking is the similarity with the Parnassine butterflies
(which, it Jieed hardly be said, is of course wholly superficial and
occasional). For in these as well as in Saturninae a set of highly
differentiated eye-spots on the forewings, but still more pronounced
on the hiudwings, form the most conspicuous part of the pattern,
though it may undoubtedly be taken for gi'anled that the spotted
design of the Parnassines has developed from a far more complete
array of simpler and more uniform markings, such as are seen in
Thais poly X en a and its consorts.
As soon as we consider the similarity of fore- and hindwing,
upper- and underside of the female of pa von i a and of both sexes
of pyri and spini as secondarily acquired characteristics, there
need no more be any objection against the supposition that the
male of the first-named species is more original than the female.
From this point of view we may further remark, that the existing
contrast between the yellow upperside of the hindwing and the
greyish one of the forewing, on which the markings are less hidden
under the ground-colour, corresponds in a higher degree to the
general type of butterfly-design than does the exact similarity of
fore- and hindwing; the overwhelming majority of Lepidoptera
showing a similar difference between fore- and hindwing.
In the fact that the discoloration (in this case yellowing) occurs
on part of the iipperside of the A/?ic/wing and of the underside of
the forewing, the male of povonia is in harmony with both
sexes of Smerinthus ocellata and of many other Lepidoptera.
Up to a certain degree the frequent occurrence and similar extension
of this discoloration can be attributed to the influence of the resting
attitude of these moths, the discoloured areas being exactly those
which during this attitude remain covered by similar parts of the
adjoining wing. In his paper: "Sur la position de repos des Lépi-
doptères", ,1. T. Oudemans has directed our attention to this cir-
cumstance and expressed his opinion that during the development
and modification of the colour-pattern in the course of time, the
