453
Oil llie underside however (wliicli is never represented even in
large iliustrated works) we again meet with the same feature, as
uientioned jnst now for pa\oiiia, spini and pyri, viz. that the
course of the transversal bars is far more regnfar and original tlian
on the upperside, this bringing about a much greater similarity
between fore- and hindwing on the first mentioned surface.
I want to draw yo\ir attention to a simple darl^ transverse stripe
on the middle of l)Oth wing-pairs, almost devoid of incnrvations and
rather faint. On the forewings this stripe runs along the distal border
of the eye-spot, on the hindwings along the proximal one. Regard-
less of this dilference, I think we have to deal in l)oth eases with
vestiges of bar IV. To this assumption I am especially led by ilie
comparison of the upperside. On that of the forewing the anterior
part of this bar is quite apparent np to the eye-spot, which constitutes a
marked difference between b o i s d u v a I i ï and the three first-mentioned
species. Past the eye-spot howevei- the posterior part of the bar is
wanting, but from the postero-interior border of that S|)Ot a black
stripe runs across to Bar VI, turning sharply at an angle in the
middle of its course and then running parallel to Bar VI, perpen-
dicularly to the posterior wing-border and as far as this latter. The
lastnamed part belongs to Bar V, as is proved by its comparison
with the upperside of the hindwing, on which the Bars IV, V and VI
may be perceived in their full extension, though faint and half-
hidden under the hairy coating.
On the underside of boisduvalii therefore the dark submarginal
border of both wing-pairs is located between Bars II and III; on
the upperside however this is only the case on the hindwing. Bar
III may even remain separated from the dark seam as an independ-
ent isolated stripe, as is shown in the illustrations of Skitz (Vol. II
PI. 31"), in contrast with the specimen at my disposition, where the
black internal border was not free from the much broader margi-
nal seam.
In some respects S a t u r n i a (N e o r i s Moore) s c h e n c k i ï
corresponds with boisduvalii', e.g. in the presence on its under-
side of an extremely faint yet complete transversal stripe, which takes
its course along the eye-spots. In this species however no difïerence
exists as to the situation of this stripe on fore- and on hindwing,
while the stripe is also present on the upper-side, though in an
incomplete and ujiequal way.
Bar V is here the most pronounced and regidar, VI and VII are
hardly visible.
The eye-sj»ots have been removed outward, and in consequence
