454
the (lark siibmargiiial seam has been reduced, wliile Bar II and III
cannot be distingnislied from each other. They are represented by
a single dark double-line, which in its anterior part is very much
festooned. At the outer side of this double-line a white bar runs along,
followed by a particularly broad mai-gin of a light-manilla brown hue.
The comparison with the female pavonia makes it probable, that
the dark submarginal edge ought to be situated between the white
bar and the dark double-line, and that thei-efore we may assei't that
it is absent. Yet this is true only to a certain degree: the broaden-
ing of tlie dai-k submai-ginal border is, as we remai-ked before, a
consequence of the advancing of the obscuration over the areas
between the succeeding transversal bars in a proximal direction,
and this identical process is also seen to take place in schenckiï,
viz. on the fore-wing between double-line II -j- III and the dark
stripe representing IV.
At the underside of schenckiï the pattei-n is simple, and
moreovei- pale and reduced.
A.o. the eye-spots on the hindwings are much smaller, paler and
less complete than at the upper side.
Amongst the many genera near-akin, that are arianged around
the Saturnids, a great number of additional arguments may be
found for the above-mentioned assertion, that their colour-pattern
may be derived from the same scheme of seven dark transversal
bars, which proved applicable to Arctiïds.
We only need point out forms like R h o d i n i a f u g a x,
probably showing II, III, and V or VI, or Laepa damartis
(Seitz II, Pi. 32'0, which on its fore wing wears I, II, III and V
or VI, on its hind-wing I, II, III, IV and V (the last two only in
part). Even in such a complicated and special pattern as that of
Brahmaeïds it is comi>aratively easy, with a little attention, to find
again the seven primary transversal bars.
However it is not only the ground-plan of the wing-design that
may be shown with great probability to be common to numerous
and various groups of moths, also the moditications of this plan
seem to take place after the same rules among the different families
of Lepidoptera. In the present case of Saturnine moths it is the
broadening of the submarginal dark border in the direction of the
hind margin, that constitutes the principal difference in pattern
between the various s[)ecies mentioned and leads to llieir arrangement
in the sequel: pavonia, spini, pyri, boisduvaliï, while
the pattern of schenckii seems to be due to a secondary regres-
sion of the dark band on its forewings.
