455
This broadening in a caudal direction makes the impression, that
an oblique line of separation runs across the forewing from tip to
root, dividing it inlo an antero-interior lighter (ield and a postero-
exterior darker one. Calling this line the F-diagonal (because the
lines of the two wings in expanded attitude form the letter V) we
maj' state, that this F-diagonal-design occurs in numerous Lepi-
doptera of various families, though always as a secondary modifi-
cation of the original pattern of transversal bars. In the group of
Chaerocampine Sphingides, which 1 hope to discuss in a future
communication, this feature is paiticnlnrly striking.
We find it however in the same way in the families of Hepia-
lidae, Noctuidae and Geomelridae, and likewise in numerous Micro-
lepidoptera. In the overwhelming majority of these cases the V-
diagonal-pattern is restricted to the upper side of the fore-wing;
the underside showing the primitive pattern of transversal bars.
As specially striking examples may be mentioned the Noctuid
genera p h i d e r e s, N y c t i p a o and E m m o n d i a, the
Bombycid genus E u p t e r o t e, as well as many Geometrids.
The species of Ophideres give rise to the remark that the
separation of the forewing-area in an antero-internal and a postero-
external part, brought about by the F-diagonal-design, in many
species e. g. 0. t y r a n n u s, s a 1 a m i a and f u 1 1 o n i c a (comp.
Seitz III, PI. 66) seems to be connected with the resemblance of
the entire forewing-design to a withered leaf, this likeness bringing
the said species under the category of the leaf-imitating Lepidoptera.
We have to deal here once more with such a feature, as can
show itself in many different shapes, and therefore in its real
character is evidently independent of the importance it may
in some particular cases possess for the establishment of protective
resemblance.
It further results from the mutual comparison of different species,
that the contrast between the anterior and the posterior part of the
wing-surface may be very different in quality as well as in quantity.
In some species the forepart is light, the hind part dark, in others
they are nearly alike. In 0. mat em a a transversal design of
Cossid-markings (traits effilochés Botke, Rieselung Eimer) spreads
over both parts; in the male the F-diagonal is present, in the
female absent, while on the contrary an ^-diagonal-design is partly
developed as a light-coloured-streak. For besides the F-diagonal an
^-diagonal can be distinguished, running from before and inside to
behind and outside in an oblique direction over the wing-surface,
often it seems to possess some connection with the division of the
30
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol XXII.
