456
wing' ink) a l)eani- and a fan-part (Spreiten- iind Faltenteil as
Spullk lias termed tliem).
In the species Miniodes discolor, near akin to the genus
Ophideres, the dai-k ^-diagonal separates the orange-colonred
forewing-area into two parts: both of" them well showing the Cossid
markings. A remarkable detail in this case is the nniform pink
colouring of the hindwing on its upperside, the under one showing
just the reverse: self-coloured forewing, (Jossid markings on the
hind one.
On the upper-side of Nyctipao c r e p u sc u 1 ar i s (Skitz 111, PI.
58) markings in three different dii-ections cooperate to form the
pattern: 1. transversal markings, especially the white line running
from the anterior to the posterior mai-gin through the centre of
fore- and hindwing, but also the dark bar near to the wing root,
representing Bar VI or VII, 2. the F-diagonal designs of the forewing,
3. a white stripe, forming an obtuse angle with the F-diagonal, and
running parallel to the /1-diagonal. Inside the angle, made by
the V- and the ^-diagonals, an eye-spot has been differentiated from
elements of the transversal markings.
Still sharper these three directions of wing-markings stand out in
dark bars against a creamy-white fond on the fore-wings of the
arctiid Areas galactina. So numerous are the cases of V- and
^-diagonal-design, that I will not even venture to summarize them
and compare them to each other. As a general result however of
my comparative investigations, I feel justified to assert, that every-
where the secondary character of this pattern may be stated with
surety, and that in the great majority of cases the underside shows
no trace of one of these oblique lines, whereas clear vestiges of the
seven original transversal bars nearly always occur, and are also
frequently present on the upperside, though generally incomplete.
In Rhopalocera the F-diagonal-design, when it occurs, is restricted
to the underside, and here serves to establish the leaf-imitating
character.
Groningen, April 1919.
