Botany. — "The Influeiice of Light on the Cell-increase in the
Roots of Allium Cepa". By H. W. Bkrinsohn. (Communicated
by Prof F. A. F. C. Went).
(Communicated in the meeting of October 25, 1919).
Mrs. Droogi.eevkr Fohtuyn — van Leyden M lias found that the
cells of young cats increase periodically in such a way, that during
the night, the number of karyokineses reaches its maximum, and
ill the later morning hours and the early afternoon a minimum
number is reached. Karsten ') stated likewise that a periodical
karyokinesis takes place in the young buds of Zeamais, which
reaches its maximum also during the night. However in the roots
of Vicia Faba he did not find any periodicity and so he concludes:
"Das Wurzelwachstuni entbehrt der Periodizitat." During these
experiments the plants remained in tlie dark. Now he tried to
influence the periodicity by exposing the young plants to the light
of an electric lamp, in which he succeeded. On the other hand he
did not trace the influence of light and dai-k on the cell-increase
in the roots. As the root growth is evidently not a periodical one,
the influence of light and dark will be most obvious here.
1 chose Allium Cepa to experiment upon, because the Alliumcells
are easily fixed and stained; because one finds a great number of
karyokineses in the rooftops and because there are a great many
roofs, so that it is possible to examine parts of one and the same
individual under different circumstances.
At 8 a. m., 11 a. m. and 3 p. m. I took a few roottips away
from a germinating onion, which was exposed to full daylight.
After that I put the same onion in the dark and left it alone
until the next day, then 1 took a few tips off at 6 a. m., at 12
a. m. and at 6.30 p. m., while the onion remained in the dark.
During these two days the temperature differed 7»° C!. (registered
with a maximum and a minimum thermometer).
1 always took care to take roottips shorter than 25 mm. and
of about the same length. The roottips were fixed in sublimate
1) Mrs. Droogleever FüRïUYN— VAN Leyden. Proceedings Konink. Akad. Amsl.
Vol. 19. 1916, p. 38.
') Karsten. Zeitsclir. f. Botanik 1915, p. 1.
30*
