460
Fi-om similar facts, as are coiitaiiieci in lal)le III and IV, it seems
also possible to me, to conclude something about the rapidity from
prophase to anaphase and from anaphase to telophase. Let us con-
sider table III for that purpose. At 11 a. m. 2.02 7o ^^'^'e i» pi'O-
phase and 0.38 7o '" tina[)hase. The number of karvokinesis figures
in prophase has decieased with J3.8 7o ^^ ^ p.m. and the number
of cell-divisions in anaphase has decreased with 44.7 V,, so the
decrease is intenser, that is to say, the transition from anaphase to
telophase is quicker than the transition from prophase to anaphase.
The same holds good for the onion in the dark during the whole
day, but during the day an inversion takes place in such a way
that from 6 a. m. to 12 a. m. the transition from prophase to
anaphase is quicker than from anaphase to telophase.
Of course these facts are too scanty to draw such far-going con-
clusions, but the aim of this calculation was only to show that it
is possible to learn the lelative rapidity. If one wants to undertake
such experiments it is necessary in the first place to fix the time
of observation much shorter, i.e. one hour or one hour and a half.
It is also possible to derive the duration of one cell-division from
such tables. When we consider table I we do not find karyokineses
at 8 a. m., and at 11 a. m. we find 16 nuclei in telophase. So the
cell-division would take about 3—4 hours with Allium Cepa. Jolly
found with Triton the duration of the kariokynesis 27, hours in
the erythrocytes at a temperature of 20° C.
From the table of Mrs. Droogleever Fortuyn— van Leyden 1 think
I may conclude the duration of a cell-division being 12 hours with a
cat, because at 2 p.m. ±0.23 7i nuclei were in prophase and no
telophases were stated. Only at 2 a.m. 0.207» nuclei were seen in
telophase for the first time.
When we summarize the results, we see that the roottips of the
onion show more cell-divisions in the dark than in the light.
Evidently light has a retaining influence. Besides it is probable
that the transition process from prophase to anaphase is a slower
one than the transition process from prophase to telophase.
Hy lack of time I could not control these facts any further. To
attain this, it would be necessary to make an investigation into the
daily oscillations in the number of karyokineses with the onion,
if possible the time of observation ought to be as long as possible
(3 to 4 days). At the same time the above-mentioned experiment
ought to be repeated. One onion suffices for these two experiments.
The bulb is cut into two halves and one half is used for the first
series of experiments and the other half voor the second experiment.
