30
small qiiantitj' of alkali, which will leave a y>H of moderate value
practically unchanged, will cause a distinct rise in a p^f of about 8.
This is clearly borne out by I he results, obtained by the addition
of ammonia.
The ui-ea, however, increases the p^ to an equal degree, whatever
its original value.
This increase is therefore evidently not due to an alkalinity of
urea. A substance, however, which possesses no alkalinity, can only
lower the H-ion concentration, if it lowers the OH-ion concentration
just as much.
This effect may be expected from all neutral substances, when
added in such an amount to the solution, that the concentration of
H,0 is appreciably diminished, provided their ionising power is
much less than that of water. In such a case the dissociation product
Ch X ^OH or, as it is usually called, the dissociation-constant of
water k^ will show a diminution.
Similar changes of the dissociation-constant of water have been
studied before, for instance by Löwenherz ') in a paper on "The
influence of the addition of ethyl-alcohol on the electrolytic disso-
ciation of water".
In view of this influence on k^^ the study of urease action in
solutions, mixed with some alcohol, promised interesting results.
The alcohol, employed in these experiments had been freed from
carbonic acid by boiling in a flask, attached to a reflux condenser.
The same 8"/, phosphate buffer-mixtures and Soja extract were
used as before in the determination of m in part 4 of this paper.
The amount of alcohol, to be mixed beforehand with the phosphate,
was calculated so as to obtain a concentration of 5"/^ in the final
solution.
For the sake of comparison the same Soja-meal was used as in
the previous experiments Those beans had been powdered a year
ago and the meal held shown already some signs of weakening.
Especially in alkaline solution its constancy of activity had been
found to be diminished. Therefore in the experiments with high
Ph the m of the first stage had to be taken rather than the mean.
And this value was multiplied by the ratio of tli« activities at the
same p^, found formerly and now.
The values, obtained in this way for m in the alcohol solution
are plotted in figure 6 1, in which for the sake of comparison the
original curve for m of fig. 3 is also reproduced
1) Zeitschr. physik. Ghem. 1896, 20, 283.
