37
solution, gave only rise to a very slight decrease of urease activity.
Tiie cases of maniiitol and glucose are illustrated by fig. 9.
It will be seen, that tlie general nature of the curves is not
changed by the addition of neutral substances, from which it can
be inferred, that only the m in our fundamental formula
X
— dx = m dt
X -(- nc
is affected.
If other substances absorbed the radiation like the hydrogen-ions,
the shape of the curves would have been altered, tending with pro-
gressive change to the logarithmic curve.
The facts recorded above and the theoretical deductions might
afford some explanation of at least a part of Onodera's observations '),
that alcohols can increase as well as decrease the action of urease.
The experiments of this author, however, were made without buffer-
mixtures and without any estimations of the p^, which in the
absence of buffers must have varied enormously. Since the long
duration of urease action in those undefined, but certainly rather
alkaline, conditions, must have had a deteriorating influence on the
urease, the more so, the higher the p^, a neat interpretation of these
results is rendered impossible.
9. Reversion of the hydrolytic actmi of urease on urea.
The generally accepted view of the synthetic action of enzymes,
shared also by the present author, is, that one and the same enzyme
is the active agent in breaking down as well as in building up its
specific substrate.
The conditions, however, which cause either of the two opposite
activities to predominate, have as yet not been made clear.
Some observations, made in the course of this study and a
general consideration of the enzyme activity in living tissues, indu-
ced the writer to venture the following hypothesis:
Around an enzyme particle the substrate is broken down as long
as the action, radiating from the enzyme, is vigorous enough. Weak-
ened by spreading or by other causes, the same enzyme radiation
produces the reverse process, synthesis.
In the living plant and animal both activities of the enzj me are
going on continuously under ordinary conditions as to concentration
of substrate, temperature and acidity. As soon, however, as the tissue,
1) Biochem. J. 1915, 563.
