47
sponding to every positive number s a positive nuïuher ó can he found
so that every pair of elements E and E' of V e satisfies the inequality
\E — E'\<^e (general principle of convergence). That this condition
is necessary for the existence of a limit is obvious.
That this condition moreover is sufficient, appears in the case of
real numbers by noticing that (tiie condition being fulfilled) a number
satisfying the definition of a limit is furnished by the upper bounda-
ry of the numbers a, for which there exists a V $, all elements of
which are ^ a. In the case of complex numbers the theorem is
further proved by applying the theorem for real numbers to the
real parts and the coefficients of i of the complex numbers.
5. liet V and W be two aggregates of numbers, the elements of
which being placed into correspondence. We suppose the coverings
of the positive numbers by the aggregates of the parts of F resp. I'T
to be of such a nature, that for each positive number 6 the parts
Vs and Wq in the correspondence between V and W are corre-
sponding ones.
We now form an aggregate U by adding the corresponding ele-
ments of V and W, at the same time transferring the covering to
U. If now ivitlt these coverings V siioivs a limit L„ and W a limit
Lw, then also U has a limit, viz. L„ -j- L„„ as may easily may be
deduced from the definition of limit.
Other known limit-theorems also can be stated in this manner in
a general way.
6. We now suppose, that the elements of the aggregate V are
real numbers. About the existence however of a limit of F, as regards
the chosen covering, nothing is assumed to be known. We can then
consider the lower boundary of the upper boundaries of the aggre-
gates V ê, and call it the upper limit of the aggregate V as regards
the considered covering. The upper limit B is -|- ^> if ^"^^ aggregates
Vs are unbounded to the right, and — oo, if the aggregate of the
upper boundaries of the aggregates Vs is unbounded to the left.
We likewise call the upper boundary of the loiuer boundaries
of the aggregates Vs the lower limit of V as regards the considered
covering ; this lower limit can also be =fc oo. It is easily proved, that
B and always satisfy the inequality O ^ B.
The aggregate F has a limit L then only, when and B are
equal and finite; we then have L= 0=B. If and B are both
-{■ 00, we speak of an improper limit -f- oo, if and B are both
— 00, of an improper limit — oo.
