Mathematics. — "A general definition of uniform convergence loith
application to the commutatlvity of limits \ By Prof. Fred. Schuh.
(Communicated by Prof. Cardinaal).
(Communicated in the meeting of May 3, J 919).
1. Let US assume two aggregates V and W loith coverings of
the positive numbers by the parts of V resp. W, as described in my
paper "A general definition of limit", p. 46. By these coverings to
a positive number ö a part T\? of F and a part We of IF is made
to correspond in such a way, that Vc nnd W§ contain at least one
element, Vs' being a part of Vs and Ws' a part of We if <\' <^ö.
Let VW be the productaggregate, whose elements are formed by
combining an element of V with an element of W into a pair
(disregarding sequence). Tlie covering by the parts of VW is taken
such, that the aggregate VeWs correspoiids to ö.
If we replace the coverings belonging to V and W by equivalent
ones (c.f. n\ 3 of my previous paper) the covering belonging to
F IF is likewise replaced by one equivalent to it.
2. We assume F W covered with {real or complex) numbers, so
that every element of VW is made to correspond to a number.
From this arises an aggregate K of numbers, in which the same
number may occur several times. We shall indicate by G an aggre-
gate of elements of K, corresponding to a same element of V, com-
bined with all elements of IF. There likewise arises an aggregate
H by considering a. constant element of W .
The covering by the parts of FIF can be transferred to the
aggregate K. Likewise the covering by the parts of F or IF is to
be transferred to every aggregate H resp. G.
3. Suppose that every aggregate G (as regards the covering by
the parts of IF) possesses a limit Lq; then corresponding to every
element of F there exists a number Lq • We say, that the aggregates G
converge uniformly to their limits Lq, if corresponding to every
positive number s there exists such a positive number ff, that each
element E of the part Ge of G satisfies the inequality \E~Lq\ ^s,
whichever element of V (hence whichever aggregate G) we may
choose ; it being required, that ö is independent of the chosen element ofV.
