52
3. either directly by isomerisatioii, or indirectly via the glycol,
pass into an iiiisatuiated primary alcohol : R . C = CH . R
I
CH,OH
If acetic acid is also present, acetates may be formed either of
the glycol, or of the unsaturated primary alcohol.
In an aqueous solution we find with anethol and isosafrol a pretty
exclusive and almost quantitative formation of the methylene ether.
In an acetic solution in the presence of sulphuric acid both a
diacetate and a methylene ether are formed, cedrene and camphene
yield in these circumstances an acetate of an unsaturated, primary
alcohol.
Camphene, d. limonene and pinene jield in an acetic solution at
the boiling-point of acetic acid likewise an acetate of an unsaturated
alcohol besides other compounds with a higher boiling-point.
The mutual reaction of formaldehyde, pinene and limonene causing
the formation of an unsaturated primary alcohol has already been
observed by Kriewitz '), who brought about a reaction of the com-
ponents by heating them in the presence of alcohol at a high
temperature.
Prior to this, the formation of a primary, unsaturated alcohol has
been ascertained by Lauenburg in the reaction between formaldehyde
and a tetrahydropyridine-derivate.
Except with the terpenes the condensation affords good results,
ranging from 707o to 90"/^, of those theoretically possible; with the
terpenes various products come into existence probably because the
resulting unsaturated alcohol once more absorbs formaldehyde.
The terpenes, containing more than one C = group, there is besides
a prior possibility of absorbing more than one molecule of formaldehyde.
The author likewise observed the setting in of suchlike reactions with
amylene, citronellol, methylheptenon, citronellal, undecylenic acid,
aethyl-cinnamate.
Experimental part.
Styrol and formaldehyde.
To a mixture of 33 gr. trioxy methylene and 320 gr. glacial acetic
acid 32 gr. strong sulphuric acid was added, the trioxymelhylene
being solved by means of heating, then it was cooled down to 40°
and while the mixture was shaken and occasionall}' refrigerated 104 gr.
styrol was added in small quantities. If the temperature is allowed
to rise beyond 50°, polymerization of the styrol sets in. The
1) Ber. d. dentsch. chem. Ges. 31. 57. (1899).
ibid, 33, 288, 2699 (1898).
