Botany. — '' Photo-groivth reaction and disposition to light in Avena
sativa". By H. L. van dk Sande Bakhuijzen. (Communicated
by Prof. F. A. F. C. Went).
(Communicated in the meeting of May 3, 1919.)
Of late years our knowledge of the influence of light on the lon-
gitudinal growth of plants has been considerably extended and
deepened. While earlier investigations were generally content not to
make their first observations until some hours after the beginning
of illnmination, attempts were made in more recent investigations
to stndy as closely as possible from the very beginning of exposure
the changes to which growth is subjected.
In 1914 Blaauw published his investigations on the photo-growth
reaction in Phycomyces^), and Vogt found in 1915 a similar reaction
in the coleoptiles of Avena ') ; besides two further papers were
published by Beaauw on this reaction in seedlings of Helianthus ')
and in certain roots *).
All these investigations were carried out under the influence of
the new points of view which Blaauw and Fröschel had opened
up in 1909 on the subject of phototropy ; hence attention was not
confined to the intensity, but a definite amount of light energy was
administered. In some cases illumination was continuous throughout
the experiment.
While Vogt does not discuss the theoretical bearing of his results,
Blaauw uses his photo-growth reaction as a basis for a discussion
of the phenomena observed in phototropy. Formerly it was indeed
known that phototropic curvatures arise through growth being-
changed somehow by unilateral illumination, but since it was not
known that a brief omnilateral illumination has an effect on longit-
udinal growth, it was impossible to obtain any accurate conception
of the changes which growth underwent immediately on unilateral
M A. H. Blaauw. Licht und Wachstum. I. Zeitsch. f. Botanik. 1914.
*) E. Vogt. Uber den Einflusz des Liclits auf das Wachstum der Koleoptile von
Avena sativa. Zeitschrift f. Botanik. 3915.
2) A. H. Blaauw. Licht und Wachstum. II. Zeitschr. f. Botanik. 1915.
*) A. H. Blaauw. Licht und Wachstum. HI. Mededeelingen van de Landbouw-
hoogeschool. Deel XV. 1918.
