58
illumination. This was one of the reasons why phototropj was
regarded as a thing apart.
BiAAUw once more defends the old theory of De Candolle and
regards unilateral as a special case of omnilateral illumination; the
former would thus have no specific action. If omnilateral illuminalion
gives a photogrowth reaction uniform in all directions, unilateral
illumination will only differ in giving an unequal growth reaction
on the posterior and anterior sides. Here it is not the difference of
light, but the light itself, as energy, which influences the longitudinal
growth of every cell, but since the fi'ont is differently lighted from
the back, the two sides will show unequal changes in growth. The
result of this inequality is a curvature towards (he source of light
or away from it; this is the phototropic curvature. By these consid-
erations phototropy has been saved from its isolation and has become
susceptible of deeper and more exact analysis. A further important
point is, that Blaauw ascribes an influence to the posterior side also,
which quite corresponds to that of the anterior. It is not the anterior
nor the posterior side alone which actively causes the curvature;
both are concerned: it is the difference in the change of growth of
the two sides which makes the plant curve phototropically.
The possibility that unilateral illumination might be a special case
of omnilatei-al, i. e. that every longitudinal strip of the plant might
receive a photo-growth induction independently of the rest of the
circumference and might execute a photo-growth reaction, suggested
an investigation of the question, whether this could throw any light
on various phototropic phenomena described in the literature. 1 found
that the photo-growth reaction gives us the means of explaining
satisfactorily many apparently contradictory phenomena. Since photo-
tropism has been most fully examined in Avena sativa and since
VoGT moreover found a photo-growth reaction here, I have made
a study of the literature on this plant. While 1 was engaged in
working up these consideialions for a preliminary publication, a
paper by Bremekamp ^) appeared, which gave me no reason to change
my opinion; I hope to return to this more fully in a later papei-.
VoGT illuminated coleoptiles of Avena from above with various
intensities during periods of various length, but on this account his
energy numbers are not comparable with horizontal light. By the
first method the plants receive much less light, since the absorbent
surface is much smaller. With horizontal illumination we need apply
1) G. E. B. Bremekamp. Eine Theorie des Phototropismus. Recueil des Travaux
bot. néerlandais. Vol. XV. 1918.
