60
conclude from the third column whether the numbers increase or
decrease, they are not sufticientlj certain. If we, however, arrange
the first and the second column according to quantities of energy
the figures rise, hence, we might expect much higher figures in the
third column. Probably we are hei-e beyond the maximum of growth
retardation. On the other hand the figures rise again on prolonged
continued illumination; this completelj^ agrees with the fact, that
illuminations of longer than 25 mins. always give positive curvatures.
Now since it is known that phototropic curvature can already be
detected after 25 mins. by means of a microscope ^), a sufficient
difference in growth between the two sides must have occurred in
this time. If the photo-growth reaction is therefore to be regarded
as the basis of phototi'opic curvature, the numbei'S, giving the retar-
dation of growth to 30 minutes after the beginning of exposure,
must provide a clue*). The occurrence of curvatures at the extreme
apex within 25 — 30 mins. can therefore be sufficiently explained by
growth retai'dation alone. There are however further points, which
indicate that the acceleration of growth, following the retardation,
has nothing to do with the establishment of the curvature.
When the acceleration of growth is over, the growth curve still
shows pronounced rises and falls. These are, however, not to be
considered as oscillations about a condition of equilibrium, like those
of a pendulum coming to rest, but must certainly be regarded as the
reactions of zones situated below. Just as in a phototropic curvature
the reaction first becomes visible at the extreme apex, the first period
of retardation of growth must also represent the reaction of the
extreme apex; the photo-growth reaction of the inferior zones will
not occur until later. This is thei-efore quite comparable to the
progress of the phototropic curvature from the apex to the regions
further below. The magnitude of the later retardations of growth
cannot however be deduced from the tables, since the average rate
of growth does not remain constant, which is partly attributable to
the great period, which itself is moreover influenced by light. ^)
1) E. Pringsheim. Studiën zur heliolropischen Stimmung und Prasentationszeit.
Zweite Mitteilung. Colin's Beitrage zur Biologie der Pflanzen. Bd. IX. 1909.
W. H. Arisz. Onderzoekingen over Fotolropie, Diss. Utrecht. 1914; Rec. trav.
bot. Néerlandais. Vol. XII. 1915.
') I neglect here the negative curvatures, which after a time may succeed to
positive ones ; these can be explained in a quite different manner, as I shall show
in my detailed paper.
^) H. SiERp. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis des Einflusses des Lichts auf das Wachstum
der Koleoptile von Avena sativa. Zeitschr. f. Botanik. 1918.
