61
We are here concerned with a conduction of the photo-growth
reaction; the uiagiiitLule of the growth retardation in the lower
zones will likewise depend on the energy applied.
The curve, which represents the dependence of the growth
retardation (ordinate) in respect of the energy applied in 5 mins.
(abscissa), we call: groivth retardalion curve. From the numbers of
table 1 we cannot very well consti-uct this curve, as there are too
few data. There is however every reason for assuming that there
is an ascending portion which can bring about positive curvatures
and a descending one producing negative ones. Hence somewhere
there is a maximum ; its existence and position will be determined
later by another method. Since the rule of products will apply also
to the photo growth reaction within certain limits, there belongs to
every amount of energy {.r) a detinite retardation of growth (y) after
a certain time (here ly, hour).
Now in unilateral illutnination the front receives the full energy ') ;
the back receives much less. If we are on the ascending part of
the curve, the retardation of growth on the anterior side (y^) is
greater than that on the posterior side (y^,) and only a positive
curvature will occur. Now 20 M.C.S. is the practical threshold
value for a readily visible curvature; on applying this amount of
enei'gy therefore, there will occur a difference of growth retardation
between the front and back, which is just sufficient to produce a
curvature which can be readily detected macroscopically. The
threshold value of 20 M.C.S. is however oidy applicable to plants
which have been grown in the dark, and have received a quantity
of light energy =: 0. It is different with plants which have had an
oiïinilaleral fore-illumination. This can be done by rotating the
plants before the source of light, so that successively all sides are
illuminated; in this way all parts of the circumference receive an
equal amount of light. If subsequently there is a unilaieral illumination,
the threshold value for a positive curvature is found to be much
higher. 1 will now consider some experiments of Arisz ^) on the
socalled "disposition (German "Stimmung") to light" in oats and in
the first place the omnilateial fore-illumination with less than 2000
, M.C.S. applied within 3 minutes with an intensity below 25 M.C.
The unilateral after-illumination always took place immediately after
the omnilatei'al.
1 find that all the changes, produced by the omnilateral
^) Reflection etc. is here left out of account.
*) Arisz i.e. Tables 24 and 25. See also Arisz: Adjustment lo light in oats.
Proceedings Kon. Ak. v. Wet. Anslerdam. 1913.
