62
fore-illumination, can be satisfactorily explained by assuming thai
at every point of tlie circumference the energy of the unilateral
after-illumination is simply added to that of tlie fore-illumination.
The retardation at a given point of the circumference will
therefore depend on the total energy i-eceived from the two
illuminations together. If the energy difference between the
anterior and posterior sides is then sufficiently great to give the
difference of growth retardation required for a visible curvature,
the threshold value will be reached. I have nowhere assumed a
change in sensitiveness, in contradistinction to Bremekamp ^), who
attempts to explain the increase in the threshold value by the
hypothesis, that the plani has become less sensitive as a result of
the unilateral fore-illumination and thus imagines a change in the
perception-basis.
If we apply unilaterally b M. C S., the front will receive h, and
h
of this the back — M. C. S. ; m is greater than 1, since the back
m
receives less than the front. If we had, however, previously given
a M. C. S. omnilaterally, the later front would have received of this
a a
- M. C. S., the later back also — M. C. S. ; a unilateral after-illu-
n n
mination will then supply to the front in addition h M. C. S., alto-
a
gether therefore — -\- b M. C. S. ; the back receives altogether
o h
1 M. C. S. In both cases the absolute energy difference between
n m
h ,m— 1
the front and back remains constant, i.e. b = 6 M. C. S.
m m
Now the resultant curvature entirely depends on the
difference of growth retardation, which corresponds
m — 1
to an energy difference of /; M.C.S. If the growth retar-
m
dation curve were a straight line, there would always correspond
?/i — 1
to an energy difference of b M .C. S. one and the same differ-
m
ence of growth retardation, whatever place of the abscissa we may
consider; the threshold value would then necessarily be constant. If
the growth retardation curve is, however, a curve with decreasing
slope, the growth retardation difference corresponding to an abscissa
m — 1
difference of 6 M. C. S. will become the smaller, the gentler
^) Bremekamp I.e.
