99
the very reason that ever}' component of the word is heard as
distinctly as the others, excludes guessing almost altogether and
facilitates the tinding of a definite zone of the scale. The question
arises, however, though it is not probable, whether the hearing
distance extends for whispered sentences as far as for words and
vowels. Zwaardemaker believes on the ground of various experiences
that the distance at which whispered sentences are heard in a closed
space amounts to 1 to 3 m. ^) according to the words that are chosen.
He calls the relation between this average distance and that at which
whispered sounds are heard : indt'.x loquelae.
In the present investigation we purposed originally only to determine
the index loquelae. However, the combination of the whisper-method
with that of the systematic or experimental introspection, procured
us a number of data of some importance for the psychology of
perception. We availed ourselves of these data only in so far as
they influence the determination of the index loquelae, the subject
proper of this paper.
The material used by us consisted of rather simple sentences. The
shortest consisted of 3, the longest of 14 syllables. Most often the
sentences were in the indicative mood, seldom in the subjunctive
mood or in the imperative mood. Though the present tense was used
most frequently, we sometimes also employed the past and the future.
Negative sentences were rare. In selecting our material we took an
adequate number of symmetrical sentences, i.e. sentences having the
same number of syllables before and after the copula, which consisted
of one syllable, or an even number of syllables, oi' we chose such
sentences as were divided by a word or by appropiate punctuation
into two parts of an equal number of syllables (e.g. waste not, want
not; a friend in need is a friend indeed). In most sentences there
was a subject, a predicate and an object in the given ordei'; sentences
without one of these parts or with a verb split up as the construction
required, we term irregular sentences. Pj-overbs and proverbial sayings
were seldom used; sotnetimes, but not often, a French or Latin
sentence was presented to the subject. All in all we made 328
experiments with 4 subjects (R., M., D. and A.). Table I gives a
survey of the material with respect to the number of syllables, the
symmetry and the asymmetry, the regular or the irregular construction
of the sentences. It should be noted, that some test-sentences have
1) Zwaardemaker. Ueber die Anwendung von Sig. Exners Akustik von Hörsalen
auf die Theorie der medizinischen Hörapparate. Wiener Medizinische Wochenschrift.
Nr. U, 1916.
7*
