J 01
contributed values for two of tlie last three colmmis; a proverb like
"a friend in need is a friend indeed" contributed to the making of
the column of proverbs as well as to that of the symmetrical
sentences.
The material was |)re8ented in whispers with reserve air. The
subject sat ready to receive the whispers with the right ear, vertical
to a line from this ear to the month of the experimenter. The
maximal distance was 5 m. ; if the subject failed to correctly repeat
the spoken words at that distance,, it was lessened every lime by
1 m. until the spoken words wei-e reju-oduced correctly. When the
distance was reduced to 2 m., it was lessened every time by \/, m.
Careful introspection, at which the subject recoi'ded minutely what
he had heard, followed after each stage of the experiment. At every
sitting 12 experiments were made at most, to pi-event fatigue. They
were all carried out in the over-furnished library of the Utrecht
Clinic for Psychiatry and Neurology. Before starling the experiments
proper, we determined the audition of our subjects by means of the
words given by Zwaakdkmakrr and Quix in "De Studie van het
Spraak ge hoor" ^). it proved to be normal with all of them ; the
hearing-distance varied for the words employed from 6 to 30 m.
In Table II we have calculated the niean distances (M.), for every
one of the three subjects R. M. and D., at which sentences of the
given number of syllables were heard (the values procured by A.
are left out of account as being too small in number).
As precision-indices we also give the mean deviations (M. D.) and
the central values (C. V.).
It is obvious that with a larger number of syllables the sentences
are heard less distinctly. For R. M. and D. this difference is resp.
1, 3.17 and 1.33 m., in the case of sentences of 3 to 10 oi' more
syllables. Besides to the influence of factors which we cannot discuss
further here, these considerable individual differences are to be
ascribed chiefly to the various tasks itnposed upon the subjects. It
stands to reason that proverbs and proverbial sayings are generally
heard at greater distances than non-proverbial exj)ressions ; symmetrical
sentences farther than asymmetrical sentences; on the other hand
irregular sentences are more difficult to hear than those that are
constructed regularly. Table III (in which the frequency of the various
kinds of sentences is tabulated in percentages of the total number
of test-sentences presented) shows clearly that the intensity of audition
varied consideiably.
The difference of the distances at which sentences of 3 and those
') Onderzoekingen Physiol. Lab. Utrecht (5) vol. 5 p. 1.
