102
of 10 or more syllables aie heard, is grealest widi the suhjecl M.
(3. 'J 7 111.). This is owing to a considerable exteid, to the high per-
TABLE III.
Subj.
Symmetrical
sentences.
Proverbs.
Irregular
sentences.
R.
M.
D.
17
16.2
14
13.7
16.2
13.7
31.1
8.1
centage of irregular sentences (31. 3j with their unfavourable influence
upon auditory sensation. This intlnenoe was much less oji R. and D.
(resp. 13.7 and 8.1 7o)- The comparatively small difference in the
case of R. (1 m.) is to be ascribed to the circumstance that symmetrical
sentences and proverbs constitute about ^Z, (30.7 "/o) of the total number
of the test-sentences that were used. D., being a Fleming and conse-
quently unacquainted with Dutch proverbs (which were not presented
to him) is placed between R. and M., quite in accordance with the
difference in the hearing distance with 14"/,, favourable and 8.1 7o
unfavourable factors.
When we look at Table 11 more closely, it appears that infra-
individual differences aie not less conspicuous than the inter-indi-
vidual ones. For, though it is true that the hearing distance with
the three subjects for trisyllabic sentences is considerably greater
than for sentences of" 10 or more syllables, the distance deci-eases
far from regularly. In the case of M. the decrease is gradual with
only few exceptions.
Sentences of an odd number of syllables are generally heard
better by R. and D. than those of an even number having one
syllable more, they even perceive sentences of 9 syllables resp. 0.23 m.
and 0.4-4: m. fai-fher than those of 4 syllables.
The cause of this phenomenon, so strange at first, is the fact that
a symmetrical construction, which largely promotes our hearing
faculty, occurs more often with sentences of an odd number of
syllables than with those of an even number. This is because with
all symmetrical sentences the number of syllables before and after
the copula is the same, while with most of them the copula is made
up of one syllable (is, was, had, are etc.) Besides the agreement just
alluded to there is also some difference in the shifting of the heai'ing
istance, when the number of syllables increases. In the case of R.
