J 03
the distance generalij increases with an increase of tlie number of
syllables from 4 to 9, for sentences of an odd number as well as
an even number — with a few exceptions in the latter case. With
D., however, a diminution is observed with sentences of an odd
number of syllables, an increase with those of an even number.
We have seen, then, that while in the case of M the distance
decreases regidarly (with a few exceptions) from 4 to 9 syllables,
with R. it increases for an odd as well as for an even number of
syllables; with D. an increase is observed foi- Ihe odd and the
decrease for the even numbers.
What is the cause of the increase of the hearing distance with
an increase of the number of syllables in the cases of the subjects
R and D, especially the fiist; and what gives rise to the ditferences
in the siü)jectsr One might expect that with the increase of the
number of syllables the retro-active inhibition is more keenly felt,
in consequence of which the faculty of perception is weaker.
Audition, however, results from the joint action of apperception
and assimilation; the latter, just as in the case of reading, plays a
prominent part here. Now the process of assimilation lequires a
minimum of apperceived elements; it can readily be imagined that
in sentences of a small number of syllables such elements are as a
rule too small in number to serve as starting-points for the assimi-
lation-process. The assertion that with shorter sentences the assimi-
lation-process should natuially be less extensive and should therefore
require fewer points of contact, does not hold good. We have
observed again and again that a certain number of apperceived
elements, no matter how short the sentences may be, is requiied to
prevent assimilation from becoming mere guessing. So the number
of apperceived elements required for test-sentences of various length
is not proportionate to the increase of the numbei- of syllables. It
follows that the reproduction-tendencies emanating from the apper-
ceived elements are, within certain limits, stronger than the inhibition
they exert upon each other. The reverse seems to be the case with
all subjects for sentences of ten or more syllables.
It is now easy to explain also the individual differences. With M.,
for whom we observe a gradual decrease of the hearing distance
with an increase of the number of syllables, the influence of iidiihi-
tion is stronger than that of assimilation. With R., for whom the
hearing distance increases with the length of the sentences of an
odd as well as an even number of syllables, the leverse obtains,
viz. the unfavourable effect of iidiibition is not only arrested, but
with the increase of the number of points of contact, assimilation
