114
as will appear presently, /).i, in others Da and Ca were assumed
according to VII. A. 3. For this purpose use was made of the critical
constants of neon as published on a former occasion ')
Ok = — 228°.35 C. pk — 26.86 int. aim.
The calculations were conducted in three ditferent ways:
a. for all temperatures only Ba was calculated from the obser-
vations, the remaining coefficients being assumed, viz. Ca and Da
according to VII. A. 3., E a and Fa according to VII. 1 or to VII. A. 3-
(as noticed above, this comes to the same) ;
h. for the lowest 4 temperatures Ba and Ca were computed
from the observations, further as under a;
c. for all temperatures Ba and Ca were deduced from the obser-
vations, for — 200°.08 C, — 208°.10 C. and — 213°.08 C. also Da
and for — 217°.52 C. also Ea, further as under a.
The calculations c were made first, with a view to obtaining the
best possible accordance with tlie observations, the coefficients therefore
bearing a purely empirical character. When it appeared that the
values of Ca could not be connected by a smooth curve, much
less those of Da, which proved the observational material to be
insufficient for the deduction of Ca and Da as functions of the
temperature, we proceeded to the methods given under a and b, in
which the values of Da and partly even those of C.i were assumed.
Naturally the accordance with the observations is very much inferior
with the methods a and b than with c.
Tlie results of the calculations which were all conducted by the
method of least squares are found in tables II and HI. Table II
gives the individual virial-coefficients, as calculated from the obser-
vations according to a, b, and c, table III the coefficients borrowed
from VII. A. 3 as well as the values of Aa computed from the equation
Aa = Aa,{^ + 0.0036618 6'), ')
where for Aao the value -f- 0.99986, as published on a former
occasion '), was taken as a basis.
1) H. Kamerlingh Onnes, G. A. Crommelin and P. G. Gath, Gomm. N^. 151^.
these Proc. XIX (2) p. 1058.
2) Gomm. NO. 7i.
») Gomm. N". lild.
