124
YN„ ^ rnri9^^TtYnN {6h)
When we now make the non-metal electrode iV anode, we
withdraw the electrons. If we had to deal with a metal, hence if
N was a metal, the electrode could maintain its potential in conse-
quence of the fact that the withdrawn electrons are supplied in time
by the reaction (6a), the positive ions formed going into solution.
As JV is however a non-metal, and the positive ions j.V' do not
practically go into solution, the reaction (6a) will not take place
to a degree of any importance.
The only way in which the non-metal jV will be able to maintain
its potential in the case supposed here, is this that negative ions N''
from the electrolyte are deposited on the electrode, and there supply
the deficit of electrons by the splitting off of electrons.
The processes that take place may be represented as follows :
t
'' t
As the heterogeneous equilibrium in the boundary layer between
the negative ions in the electiode and in the electrolyte must set
in with very great rapidity, it is clear that it will depend on the
velocity of the splitting off of electrons of the negative ions whether
the electrode maintains its potential or whether it does not. Above
a definite current density, i.e. above a definite velocity of withdrawal
of electrons this will no longer be the case, and a consequence of this
will be that the electrode will contain too few electrons and too
many negative ions.
It follows from equation (7) for this case that the potential diffe-
rence will become more stronglj^ positive.
This phenomenon of polarisation is called ^'sujier tension" in the
case of gases, but it is not essentially different from the phenomenon
of anodic polarisation for metals.
It is clear that when we now proceed to the cathodic polarisation
for non-metals this phenomenon should be ascribed to this that the
added electrons are not quickly enough absorbed by the uncharged
molecules or atoms, so the electron possesses a too high concentra-
tion of electrons, and a too small concentration of negative ions.
According to our equation (7) this gives rise to a less positive value
of the potential difference.
As we do not measure the potential difference, but the experi-
