71
the establishment and endowment of a Prize Fund, in memory
of her deceased brother, who was an honored member of the
Society. The Society, at a stated meeting, held October 5,
1888, accepted the gift and agreed to make suitable rules and
regulations to carry out the wishes of the donor, and to dis-
charge the duties confided to it. In furtherance whereof, the
following rules and regulations were adopted by the Society
at a stated meeting held on the seventh day of December,
A.D. 1888 :
First. The Prize Endowment Fund shall be called the
" Henry M. Phillips' Prize Essay Fund."
Second. The money constituting the Endowment Fund, viz.,
five thousand dollars, shall be invested by the Society in such
securities as may be recognized by the laws of Pennsylvania, as
proper for the investment of trust funds, and the evidences of
such investment shall be made in the name of the Society as
trustee of the Henry M. Phillips' Prize Essay Fund.
Third. The income arising from such investment shall be
appropriated as follows :
(a) To making public advertisement of the prize and the
sum or amount in United States gold coin, and the terms on
which it shall be awarded.
(b) To the payment of such prize or prizes as may from time
to time be awarded by the Society for the best essay of real
merit on the Science and Philosophy of Jurisprudence, and to
the preparation of the certificate to be granted to the author
of any successful essay.
Fourth. Competitors for the prize shall affix to their essays
some motto or name (not the proper name of the author, how-
ever), and when the essay is forwarded to the Society, it shall
be accompanied by a sealed envelope containing within the
proper name of the author, and, on the outside thereof, the
motto or name adopted for the essay.
Fifth. At a stated meeting of the Society, in pursuance of
the advertisement, all essays received up to that time, shall be
referred to a Committee of Judges, to consist of five persons,
who shall be selected by the Society from nomination of ten
