81
Society, hereafter to be made. Provided always^ That no
statute, law, regulation, or ordinance shall ever be made or
passed by the said Society, or be binding upon the members
thereof, or any of them, unless the same hath been duly pro-
posed, and fairly drawn up in writing at one stated meeting
of the Society, and enacted or passed at a subsequent meeting,
at least the space of fourteen days after the former meeting,
and upon due notice in some of the public newspapers
that the enacting of statutes and laws, or the making and
passing ordinances and regulations, will be part of the busi-
ness of such meeting ; nor shall any statute, law, regulation, or
ordinance be then or at any time enacted or passed, unless
thirteen members of the said Society, or such greater number
of members as may be afterwards fixed by the rules of this
Society, be present, besides such quorum of the officers and
council as the laws of the Society for the time being may re-
quire, and unless the same be voted by two-thirds of the whole
body then present ; all which statutes, laws, ordinances and
regulations, so as aforesaid duly made, enacted, and passed,
shall be binding upon every member of the said Society, and
be from time to time inviolably observed, according to the
tenor and efi'ect thereof; provided they be not repugnant or
contrary to the laws of this Commonwealth, for the time
being in force and effect.
And whereas, nations truly civilized (however unhappily at
variance on other accounts) will never wage war with the arts
and sciences and the common interests of humanity ;
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid. That it
shall and may be lawful for the said Society by their proper
officers, at all times, whether in peace or in war, to correspond
with learned Societies, as well as individual learned men, of
any nation or country, upon matters merely belonging to the
business of the said Society; such as the mutual communica-
tion of their discoveries and proceedings in philosophy and
science ; the procuring books, apparatus, natural curiosities,
and such other articles and intelligence as are usually ex-
changed between learned bodies for furthering their common
PROC. AMER. PHILOS. SOC. XXVII. 131. K. PRINTED JAN. 31, 1890.
