3 D
The mode of sub-dividiug- entries made under any element in
each nuaibered division shall be as follows: —
(a) All entries relating" either to the element itself or of a
g-eneral character shall coma immediately under the
number.
(b) Salts are to be indexed under the reg-lstratit)n number of
the metal, and, in g-enoral, compounds are to bo
indexed under the reg'istration number of the most
characteristic element in them.
The reg-istration number must be immediately followed
by the symbol of the characteristic element, followed
by that of the other element or elements. AVhere one
compound onl,y is dealt with, its formula may be given
immediately after the registration number.
Thus, after each metal, its compounds with the following
elements would be placed in tiie following order in the
Catalogue : As, B, Br, C, CI. F, H, I, N, 0, P, S, Si,
these, and any other elements being taken in the
order in which they occur in the preceding table.
(c) References to hydroxides, acids, and salts that contain
oxygen shall be entered under the oxide ; the corrc-
spoTiding sulphur compounds under the sulphide.
Thus, under 0420 KO would be placed the following
compounds of potassium (among others) : oxides,
hj'droxide, nitrate, nitrite, hypophosphite, phosphate,
hypochlorite, hypobromite, chlorite, chlorate, per-
chlorate, bromato, iodate, sulphite, sulphate, silicate,
manganate, permanganate, &c.
Under 0420 KS would be placed any compound containing
sulphur that may be considered to be derived by the
substitution of sulphur for one or more atoms of
oxygen, e.(j., sulphide, sulph-hydrides, thiocarbonates,
dithiocarbonates, trithiocarbonates, thiosulphates,
thionates, thioarsenites, &c.
{(l) In each subdivision the entries may be arranged in surh
order that those relating, «, to the history or origin of
the substance come first, and following these, those
relating, /3, to its physical properties ; 7, to its pre-
paration or manufacture ; r , to its structure, or of a
theoretical nature; e, to its interactions or use ; ^, to
its compounds.
It will, as a rule, be unnecessary to repeat a reference to any
one substance under each of the sub-sections, « — <; ; it would suilice
to enter the reference in one of these (say /i), and to append at
the close of the entry, 7, ^, &c., if statements of special impor-
tance falling under these headings are made in the connnnnica-
lion.
(d-9724) « 2
