Laboratory Procedure.
0900 General.
0910 Plans, fittings, appliances and apparatus.
0920 Lecture apparatus and experiments.
0930 Operations in inorg-anic chemistry.
Entries under 0930 shall be made under headings such ^as
dissolution and solvents, crystallisation, distillation, sublimation,
reduction by hydrog-en, &c., oxidation, electrolysis, furnace
operations, &c.. arraug-ed alphabetically.
Organic (Carbon) Chemistry.
1000 General.
All entries relating- to tlie subject g-enerally shall be arranged
in this division under 1000, excepting those relating to carbon
itself or to compounds not usually regarded as derivatives of
hj'drocarbons.
Substitution derivatives of Ihe compounds included in each of
the numbered divisions — especially haloid and allied derivatives-
formed by the introduction of monad radicles — shall, as far as
possible, be entered under the compounds from which they are
derived.
Entries under tiie name of a substance may, if necessary, be
subdivided in the manner provided for inorganic substances.
In preparing the slips, and whenever the name of the com-
p )und is ambiguous, or not likely to suggest the constitutioiu
the structural formula should be added. This is chiefly to assist
the Editor.
Hydrocarbons.
1100 General.
1110 Paraffins.
1120 Unsaturated open chain hydrocarbons.
1130 Benzenoid hydrocarbons.
1140 Reduced benzenoid hydrocarbons. C^'clic hydro-
carbons other than benzenoid hydrocarbons.
(Terpenes, 6ic.)
lloO Unclassified hydrocarbons.
Each of these divisions shall be subdivided (excepting 1100 and
1110) into i.sologous groups, in each of which compounds shall
be entered in homologous order.
Haloid and allied substitution derivatives shall be entered
under the corresponding hydrocarbon.
In preparing- the slips for 1120 to 1150, after the registration,
letter and registration number, the empirical or, if possible, the
structural formula of the hydrocarbon shall be given. Thea
.should follow the name of the hydroc;\rbon, and, in the case
of substitution products, the sj^nbols of the substituting groups,
CI, CN. NO,, &c.
