12 REPORT OP STATE BIOLOGIST.
SECOND CONSIGNMENT OF EASTERN OYSTERS.
Since the first consignment in 189G, the United States Fish
Commissioner, George M. Bowers, has been liberal enough to
present the state with ten barrels more of the variety known
as Princess Bays, making in all thirty-two barrels of eastern
oysters donated the state and planted in Yaquina Bay.
Through the courtesy of President John J. Valentine, of the
Wells, Fargo Company, this second consignment was brought
from New York to Yaquina free of charge. The United States
Government bore the expense of transporting the first con-
signment.
A telegram from Auburn, California, received at Eugene,
October 30, advised the writer that the oysters would pass
Sacramento that night, bringing them into Albany on the
morning of November 1, where they were met and arrange-
ments made with the courteous officials of the Corvallis and
Eastern Railroad to have them unloaded at Oysterville. They
were planted the next morning, some with the former plant,
and some farther up the bay in deep water. This consign-
ment left New York City on October 25 ; they were, there-
fore, just eight days en route. Not a single dead oyster was
found in the entire lot. The consignment weighed in the
vicinity of two thousand five hundred pounds.
Tlie small sum ($300) appropriated by our last legislature
for this Avork having been nearly exhausted, the United
States Fish Commissioner, George M. Bowers, has practically
consented to honor bills representing the expenses of next
summer's work. This generosity on the part of the fish com-
missioner is highly appreciated, for, otherwise, the work would
be at a standstill during the coming summer, at which time
it is now intended to make a thorough trial of the concrete
pond constructed last season.
CONDITIONS OF THE NATIVE OYSTER INDUSTRY.
Yaquina Bay oystermen get at present $2.50 to $2.75 per
sack for native oysters, a San Francisco firm having con-
tracted with most of the oystermen for this season's output
at the latter figure. The oysters on the native beds are so
closely worked now that one-half a sack on a tide is consid-
