CULTURE OF THE ROSE. 137
are about 3 feet from the walk, giving room enough from
the glass to grow plants from 2 to 3 feet in height. We
have used these benches exclusively for growing Roses in
pots, but tliey may be used, of course, for any other plants
requiring the same temperature as tlie Roses. At the end
of the house to the north is placed the furnace pit and
sheds, so that the other end is due South. This we think
the best aspect for an equal span-roofed green-house. When
it is a " half-span," then the long side should be due East
the e7ids being North and South. The cost of each style
is neaily similar and will be found estimated for the "half-
span " style at page 131. Ventilation is given by " lift-
ing sashes " along the roof on the East side of both kinds
of green-houses by means of a patent ventilator. In this
ventilator a jointed iron arm is fastened to each snsh, and
the other end of the arm is attached to an iron shaft that
runs horizontally the whole length of the house close to
the roof. By means of a crank placed in a convenient
position and proper gearing the shaft is made to revolve,
and this acting upon the arms lifts the sashes simultaneous-
ly. But very little exertion is required to move it, and
the ventilators can w^ith the greatest ease be opened a
mere crack or to their fullest extent. Either of these
styles of span-roofed green-houses, would be more econom-
ical to have the width 22 or 24 feet rather than 20, so
that the centre bed for Roses might be wider.
There are comparatively few varieties of Roses suitable
for producing flowers in sufficient abundance in winter
to make it profitable, and these few are such as in the
summer months are by no means our finest ; but they
are selected for winter, not for their developed flowers, but
for their buds. Thus the Safrano, one of the most valued
for its safiron yellow buds, is but semi-double. Those
most valued by the New York florists are :
Lamar que. — White, with a tinge of straw color in the
center ; a vigorous grower, usually trained up the rafters.
