CULTIVATION OF THE VERBENA. 141
*' black rust," — and enabled us to grow it for nearly twenty
years untainted by disease. I will make the starting-
point the first of April. At that date take cuttings from
healthy plants ; see that they are taken in the condition
described in the Chapter on Propagation — that is, that
they are in such a state that they will break on being bent.
They will root fit to be potted off, in eight or ten days,
and will be fine, healthy plants to put in the open ground
in thirty days after. Verbenas are not at all particular
about soil, provided it is not water-soaked; we have
planted them on soils varying from almost pure sand to
heavy clay, and, provided it was enriched by manure, there
was but little diflference in the growth or bloom. Planted
out in May, by August they will have spread to a dis-
tance of three feet, the plants profusely covered with flow-
ers and seed pods. Now at this time, say the middle of Au-
gust, this profuse flowering and seeding seems to lessen the
vitality of the plant and put it in the condition to invite
the attack of the " black rust " producing insect. To sustain
the vitality of the plant and recuperate its exhausted forces,
we cut back the extremities of the shoots some six inches,
in all plants from which we design to propagate, free the
plants of decayed leaves, and thin out where too thick at
the centre. Then we fork up the soil around each plant,
adding a compost of equal parts of fresh soil and rotted
m.anure to the depth of two or three inches. Young
shoots, as they develop, root into this with avidity, pro-
ducing a soft and healthy growth, which by the first
or middle of October, gives as just the style of cutting we
require. Now the process of propagation begins, Avhich
may be carried on either in the propagating house, in the
usual way, or by tlie saucer system, as before described ; but
by whichever method the propagation is efi*ected, let me
again mention the importance of taking the cutting in that
succulent condition in which it will snap on being bent.
Do not attempt to pot the old plant or the layers of the
