142
PRACTICAL FLORICULTUEE.
Verbena, or even to take a shoot for a cutting which h as
formed a root in the ground ; for in most cases the roots
so formed are so low down that the shoot is hard and
woody at that point, and wnll not be liicely to produce such
roots as will give a healthy growth. It is by starting
wrong m the Ml, and impairing the vitality of the plant,
and placing it in an enfeebled state, that disease is invited.
In the directions given in the Chapter on Propagation
great importance is attached to the necessity of potting
off cuttings immediately on being rooted. If this is nec-
essary with any plant, it is especially so with the Verbena,
as no plant is more susceptible of injury from allowing the
roots to become elongated and hardened in the cutting
bench. Cuttings thus neglected make hard, slim plants,
which, even if they do escape the insect pest, are not likely
to make thrifty plants. On potting the cuttings, they are
placed in a green -house or frame, and shaded in the usual
way for two or three days or as long as the condition of
the weather may require. As soon as they have struck
root in the soil of the pots, they should be kept cool and
abundantly supplied with air by tilting up or letting down
the sash.
No fire heat need be given, except sufficient to keep
them from freezing, and if a temperature can be sustained
throughout the entire winter months ranging from 40°
to 45°, at night, and not to exceed 10° higher during
the day until the beginning of March, there is no doubt
whatever of having a healthy and vigorous stock, provid-
ing proper attention has been given to watering and to
fumigation by. tobacco. Watering we do by force-pump
and hose, as elsewhere described, drenching the plants
thorouglily overhead by a sprinkler, whenever they show
indications of being dry.
Contmued fumigation is of the utmost importance in the
culture of all plants under glass, but it is perfectly indis-
pensable to the welfare of the Verbena. In all our Verbe-
