148 PRACTICAL FLOEICULTURE.
December, and January, the bulbs should be kept cliy, and
planted by the first or middle of August. These, of course,
must be grown in the hot-house or green-house, as the
Tuberose is a plant requiring at all times a high tempera-
ture.
To give a gradual succession it has been our own prac-
tice for the past four years to plant the dry bulbs on the
green-house benches on July 20th, August 5th, and August
20th, the last lot coming in about Christmas.
Another plan now very extensively practiced by our
New York florists, to produce flowers from February to
May, to succeed and precede those planted from the dry
bulbs, is to lift the strongest growing bulbs that can be
selected from the patch in fall before frost. They are dug
up carefully, first detaching all side shoots, so that a good
ball of soil adheres to the root. They are then either
planted in pots 7 or 8 inches in diameter, or planted at
once on the benches of the hot-house in 6 inches of well-
prepared soil, at about 5 or 6 inches apart. They are then
shaded and freely watered for a few days, until they have
struck out roots sufficient to sustain them without wilt-
ing. So long as the weather continues mild, the protec-
tion of the glass will be sufficiently warm for them at
night; but on the approach of colder weather, firing must
be resorted to, and continued, so that the temperature shall
at no time fall lower than 50° at night, and the nearer
that it can be kept to 60°, as an average, the better. It
will be understood that under these benches on which
the Tuberoses are planted run the pipes or flues, so
that the temperature of the soil in which they are growing
is usually 5 degrees higher than the atmosphere of the hot-
house at night, which is one of the main features of suc-
cess in forcing the Tuberose. Great care is necessary in
airing, which should not be done until the atmosphere of
the house is at 70°, and the nearer that point can be
kept to during the day the better; above all things any
