154 PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
dried, and stored in some cool but dry place, to be again
planted in October. It is essential to lift up and dry all
such bulbs, else they will grow meagerly the succeeding
season. In Europe, Ranunculuses and Anemones are
grown to great advantage, planted in the same manner as
we plant Hyacinths and Tulips, but our winters are too
severe for them, so that they are rarely seen in good con-
dition, except when grown under the protection of a cold
frame, and for this reason are but little cultivated.
Nearly all these bulbs also may be grown as pot plants,
for the green-house or parlor, particularly the Hyacinth,
and as the treatment of them all is nearly alike, we will
briefly give it. For pot culture the best bulbs should
always be selected ; the soil used is about one part decom-
posed cow or horse manure, to two parts sandy loam,
well mixed by riddling through a coarse sieve.
The pots used should be from 5 to 7 inches in diameter;
the mould should be placed in them rather loosely to the
rim, the bulb pressed down so that only about one-third of
it remains above the top of the soil ; the pot is then struck
smartly on a bench so as to give the soil the proper degree
of firmness, which will bring it down to an inch or so be-
low the rim of the pot. Water freely, when potted, to
still further settle the soil. The pots should now be placed
in some situation where it is cool and dark, so as to en-
courage a strong development of roots before the bulb
starts at the top; such a situation, may be formed by cov-
ering the pots with four or five inches of sand in a cool
cellar, under the stage of a green-house or in a cold vinery,
still enveloping them in soil or sand. If none of these
conveniences is at hand, the pots may be pitted in a
trench in the open ground, covered over with soil, and
sufficient litter placed above that to keep out the frost,
so that they can be got at when wanted. Hyacinths thus
treated will have made sufficient roots by the 1st of Octo-
ber to admit of their being placed in the light by the middle
