162 PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
The advance of the 'New York establishments is due,
without doubt, to their more rapid manner of propaga-
tion. While the Philadelphia florist contents himself with
the slow but sure practice of inarching, the New York
Camellia-grower is making nearly a do'»:en plants to his
one, by the method, equally safe to him, of grafting.
The process of inarching the Camellia, or grafting by
approach, is usually performed in July, by slicing ofi" a
thin portion of the stock and a corresponding portion of
the variety to be inarched. The slice pared off should
be deep enough to take a portion of the wood off with the
bark, and of about two inches in length ; the parts should
be so joined that at least one side shall closely meet, and
there be tied moderately firm, to keep them in place
until they have grown together.
If done in July, the part inarched may be cut from the
parent stem in October.
Grafting the Camellia, in our opinion, is just as much
an improvement over inarching as growing a grape-vine
or rose from a cutting is over the ungardener-like practice
of growing it from layers. I am aware that in many hands
the grafting of the Camellia has proved a failure, not so much
due to anything wrong in the way the mechanical part
of the operation was performed as to the wrong time it
was done. The best time in our climate to graft the Ca-
mellia is from the 15th of August to the 15th of September ;
at such times the sap is in just the right condition to form
the proper callosity to cause an adherence of the parts.
Figure 38 shows the operation, which is of the simplest
kind ; the main point to be looked to being the accurate
junction of the parts, at one side at least, and careful tying
up, to keep the graft in place. After the operation, the
next point of importance is the place in which the plants
are put. It will be understood that the graft is in some
respects analogous to a cutting, being a detached part of a
plant with nothing to support it as yet, and that the same
