166 PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
They are best planted out in beds of six rows, nine
inches apart, and the same distance between the plants,
with eighteen-inch alleys between the beds. The Carna-
tion is very impatient of a wet soil, and care should be
taken that the land be made dry by draining or otherwise.
As the Carnations grow they throw up flower shoots, which
must be cut off all through the season, until about the 1st
or 15th of September. If the plants are wanted for winter
flowering, this cutting back of the flower shoots induces a
dwarf and stocky growth, which is very desirable in the
Carnation. If they are grown in large quantities for win-
ter flowering, by far the best way is to plant them on the
benches of the green-house, at about the same distance as
they were growing outside, any time in October ; but if only
a few are required, to mix in with a general collection of
plants, it is more convenient to grow them in pots, so that
they may be moved about as may be necessary. Of the
varieties grown, though we have some hundreds, as in
the case of Roses, we have only a few suited for winter
flowering. Of these, so far, the most productive is La
Purite, a deep carmine variety; next, a variegated variety
of the preceding. Among whites, Maimie and De-
graw take the lead. In yellows, we have Astoria and
De Fontana, but these fall far short of the others in pro-
ductiveness of flowers.
The flowers of La Purite and other colored sorts sell in
New York at |2 per 100, the whites usually at $3 per 100.
Even at these low prices they are a fairly profltable crop,
as the bulk of the flowers is given previous to the middle
of January, when the forced plants, being of but little use,
are usually thrown out to make room for other plants. Al-
though the Carnation is nearly a hardy plant and may be
kept anywhere in winter in a cold green-house or pit, even
if occasionally slightly frozen, yet it is also susceptible of
being forced freely. We usually keep our houses, when
we are forcing for flowers, at from 50° to 60° at night.
