CONSTRUCTION OF BOUQUETS, ETC. 191
flowers. Strong spool cotton or shoe thread is used foi
tying up the flowers. Camellia stems being entirely un
available, a wire tlie thickness of a pin is passed througl
the calyx of the flower, the ends being twisted together
It is then stemmed on a light, dried willow — which admits
of bending to the required position — with suflicient moss
wound under the flower to prevent its outer petals being
at all compressed, when set in the bouquet. Without
some such provision it is impossible, either to attain the
rounding outline of the bouquet, or to display the flowers
in perfection.
With flowers prepared, let us take a camellia for the
centre of our bouquet, tie it securely to the bouquet
stem (a piece of kite stick or stifi" twig), and wind moss
around it, as already described, to keep the flower from
outer pressure, the moss running to a point about two
inches below the flower. Six tea rose-buds are now set at
resfular intervals around and on a line with the outer
petals of the camellia, and the spaces between these each
filled with a small piece of white eupatorium, a very
small geranium leaf or point of delicate green being set
by each bud. A little moss is now wound lightly,
close under the flowers, to prevent crowding, a pink car-
nation set behind each rose-bud, with tuberoses between,
a speck of euj^atoiium being inserted under the edge of
each tuberose, to fill out. Six white camellias of equal
size and form, stemmed as described, are now set at regu-
lar intervals around, particular care being taken to form
with the face of these flowers the correct outline of the
bouquet, and their stems tightly bound, to prevent work-
ing out of place. Between each camellia, on the inner
side, another tuberose is set, filled out with a speck of
stevia under each side ; more moss is added, and a bright
speck of crimson bouvardia forms the sole dividing line
between the centres of the camellias — which nearly touch
each other. A tea rose-bud follows, with a violet set in
