192 PRACTICAL FLORICULTUIiE.
swe(!t alyssnm on one side and a small geranium leaf in
tbe same on the other; a white carnation is set behind
each bud, with a speck of bouvardia in cupatorium ou
each side. A liglit border of stevia is now set around the
whole, and v/ith camellia leaves of equal form steijiaoaed
on willows, and projected nearly half their lengthy the
bouquet is finished. The back is trimmed with bouquet
green, or fine leaves of any evergreen. The handle is cut
to about three inches, and being a hand bouquet, is wrap-
ped with tinfoil, wound over, and neatly tied above with
a bow of white tafifeta ribbon.
The outline of the bouquet must be carefully kept as
the work proceeds, and sufficient moss from time to time
packed lightly in front and immediately under the flow-
ers. By this means the weight of tlie structure is borne
by the stems, the flowers being only allowed to toucli
each other. Moss not only serves well tokeeptlie flowers
apart, but acts as a sponge when the bouquet is set in water,
giving moisture to flowers with the shortest stems; and
bouquets thus made are more durable than the casual ob-
server — who gazes regretfully on the beheaded flowers —
is apt to imagine. When, in addition to the moss, a piece
of wet cotton is stemmed to every flower, (as the Avriter
has all good work done,) the natural stem is not unkindly
superseded. The maker must work with a tight thread,
to prevent the flowers from getting out of place, and keep
a clean surface on the handle. Another method of bouquet
making is to tie a ball of moss rather loosely on the
bouquet stick and insert the flowers (which are stemmed
to suit the work), di-awing them down to the desired posi-
tion, and tying as the work proceeds.
Vase bouquets are made similarly, with more green
"backing" between and around the flowers, for loose ar-
rangement and to support the greater weight. Flower
baskets are lined with tinfoil, or, if not likely to show after
filling, any tough paper will serve the purpose ; they are
