202 PEACTICAL FLORICULTUEE.
15 or 20 degrees higher during the day. The best aspect
for growing plants from October to April is due south.
For the intermediate season, east is preferable. Watering
is a very important operation, but a little experience with
[)lnnts, and ordinary care in observing, will soon show
wiien this is required. A good deal depends on the condi-
tion of the plant; if in vigorous growth tliere is but little
danger of giving it too much. On the other hand, if the
plant has been cut back or lost its leaves, water should be
given sparingly. For example, you may take a vigorous
growing apple or pear tree, and saw off its limbs to the
trunk in midsummer; if its roots are kept saturated with
moisture it will die, but if kept dry it will shortly again
develop branches and leaves. This example teaches us a
lesson in more artificial culture, that in proportion to the
vigor of the subject should its food be supplied. The
practice of placing the pots in saucers filled with water
is destructive to the health of the plants, as, of course,
as long as the water remains in the saucers the soil
is absorbing it and the roots of the plant are satui'ated;
it is well enough to use the saucers to prevent the soil
from washing through, but the water should be applied
at the surface of the pot, and what little will pass through
into the saucer will do no harm. Another source of an-
noyance to those growing plants in rooms is the various in-
sects that attack them. The most common and inju-
rious of these is the Aphis or Green Fly. In our green-
houses we keep this little pest in check by continued
fumigation with tobacco, but as this would not be practi-
cable in rooms, recourse must be had to immersing the
plant in tobacco water, made to a strength having about the
color of strong tea. By dipping the plant in this once in
two weeks, or, when the plants are large, syringing them
with it, they will never be seen. The Red Spider and
thrip are not so easily got rid of, but fortunately they are
not so common or injurious, unless in a very high temper-
