204 PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
server as an agreeable change from the seemingly never-
ending brick and stone of the city. The window-garden-
ing is not confined to private dwellings, but all the leading
hotels are so decorated. In the dining-room of the Lang-
ham Hotel (said to be the largest in England), some
hundreds of well-grown speciments of plants are placed
in the windows, and kept in perfect order during the
entire summer. The selection of plants is made regard-
less of expense, and in looking around the dining-hall it
is with some difficulty that you decide if you are not
dining in the midst of a vast conservatory, so redolent is
the air with the perfume of flowers. The same taste for
window-gardening is displayed, more or less, in all the
English towns and villages, and even the humblest
thatclied cottage of the peasant by the wayside is given
a look of quiet happiness by the bower of flowers in the
window. How different the look of these humble homes,
where the occupant is receiving barely |4 per week, to
the squalid shanties in the suburbs of our great cities in
America, where the " naturalized " American citizen is
earning three times that amount !
Here let me deviate from my text, but to a kindred
subject, and tell how the English cottager works his gar-
den in some of the old towns, such as Colchester. To
each cottage, renting for about $50 per year, is attached a
garden of something more than an eighth part of an acre
in extent. In this little spot the tenant contrives to grow
four to six kinds of vegetables, such as potatoes, cabbage,
peas, turnips, etc., and of fruits, gooseberries, currants,
raspberries, and strawberries. Every foot is made to pro-
duce something, and rarely a weed was seen in some
scores that we saw ranged side by side. The heavy work
is done by the man of the house, " before or after hours,"
in his own time; In the weeding and hoeing he is
assisted by wife or children. There is great rivalry
among the different owners of these cottage gardens, and
