208 PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
der glass we may say that tliey are entirely under c(»ntrol,
and I have always considered that no better evidence of the
incompetency of the person in cliarge of a green-houso
could be had, than to see the plants covered with insects.
The most annoying of all insects of the flower garden,
is the
Rose Slug", Selcmdna Hosce^ a light green, translucent
little fellow, varying from 1-16 of an inch to nearly an inch
in length. There are evidently two species or varieties,
one of which confines its ravages to the lower side of the
leaf; the other eats it entire. The first is by far the most
destructive here. In a few days after the plants are at-
tacked they appear as if they had been burned.
The only remedy we have found is a preventive one,
which, in fact, ouscht to be used agjainst all insect life. Be-
fore the leaves of the roses appear, just as soon as the
buds begin to develop, apply whale oil soap, in the pro-
portion of one lb. to eight gallons of water ; this, stead-
ily applied for ten days, with a syringe or garden engine,
has, in my experience, entirely prevented the attacks of
the insect. But once let it get a foothold and it can hardly
be driven off by this application, unless it be made strong
enough to injure the foliage, making the remedy worse
than the disease. The species of Rose Slug that eats the
entire leaf seems to confine its depredations more to
young plants, and later in the season. We have found it
quite troublesome in June and July among our young roses,
which had been planted out in May and June, and as
these were young and tender plants, the whale oil soap
remedy could not safely be applied; so we have often
had acres of young roses covered by myriads of these slugs,
before they were observed, and nothing could be done ex-
cept to shake the plants, and kill the insects when they fell
to the ground. In the summer of 1866, we had some
nine or ten boys shaking the plants and killing the slugs,
for upwards of a week, and by this means saved our crop
