INSECTS. 211
We now come to the insects which are troublesome
under glass ; liere we have the means within our control
to entirely prevent the two leading insects, Green J^li/and
.Red Spider. In both cases, I have always contended
that " an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of
cui e." There is no neglect of the gardener or foreman in
charge of green-houses which is so little excusable as
allowing insects to injure his plants.
Green Fly {Aphis) is prevented, (for I contend that it
should never be seen, so that it need be destroyed), by
fumigating with tobacco smoke, not less than twice each
week. We do it in a manner much more simple and
agreeable to the operator than is often practiced. Two
or three times each week during the entire season at
which our green-houses are filled witli plants, we use a
small handful of shavings, on top of which we place about
half a pound of tobacco stems, previously made damp.
The shavings are lighted, and the fire being on the brick
flooring, is left to take care of itself. We use this quanti-
ty of tobacco to every 500 square feet of glass ; we burn thus
five to six tons of tobacco stems every season, but we rarely
see a green fly. We have occasionally seen this insect in-
crease to such an extent in its difierent conditions, that fu-
migation was powerless to destroy it, or rather it would
have required it to be applied so strong, to dislodge the vast
number of the enemy, that the plants would have been in-
jured. The safer way to treat a desperate case of this
kind is to brush the insect off* by hand, or with a soft
brush ; this is a slow process, but an efiectual one. This
condition of the plants can only be the result of utter neg-
lect. The green fly-sometimes injures plants which stand
too near together, so that the leaves get matted so closely
thAt the fumes of the tobacco cannot penetrate. This is
a condition, where recourse must be had to brushing the
insects from the leaves, and, if possible, spreadmg the
plants, so that the air can pass freely among them.
