222 PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
for want of moisture. Boxes of medium size are best;
we never like to use a box of greater capacity than the
ordinary flour barrel, usually prefering such as are cne-
tbird smaller than that. If the box is too large, the plants
may be injured by mutual pressure.
This is our method of packing as long as there is danger
from frost, or until the middle of March. From the mid-
dle of March to the middle of April, we use a box of a
different character, open on all sides to admit air, for now
the danger to be avoided is from heat and not from cold.
The manner of packing is in all other respects the same,
except that no more hay is used around the inside of the
box than necessary to make a soft bed for the plants. If
the closely packed plants have any tendency to generate
heat, it will be counteracted by the admission of air
through the openings in the box. Again, we gradually
make a change in our style of packing to suit the advanc-
ing season. For small orders, a light kind of chip basket
is used, in which the plants are packed in the man-
ner above described, and strapped over the top with hay.
We find a basket a most convenient and satisfactory arti-
cle to pack in, as its open-work sides freely admit the air.
In baskets weighing less than two pounds, we pack from
100 to 150 plants. Being annoyed at having frequently
to pay for clumsy, heavy packages in which our new im-
portations were received from England, I took occasion to
send over to a London nurseryman some fifty plants packed
in one of these baskets, the whole basket and contents weigh-
ing only 15 lbs., and with two exceptions every plant was re-
ceived alive. I implored the gentleman to pack the plants
he was to send me in return in similar light baskets, as it
would not only save freight but, what was of far more
importance, save me the plants alive. He sent them in
baskets, sure enough, each one weighing of itself 40 lbs.,
— a shapeless, ponderous affair, that with its contents re-
quired two men to lift it into a wagon. This was not the
