THE PROFITS OF FLORICULTURE. 225
possible. But, as we have heretofore done, we will confine
ourselves to the district of New York, which may be taken
at the present time as a fair representation of the whole
country.
The capital required in starting this department of hor-
ticulture I consider need not be so much as in that of
either nursery, vegetable, or fruit growing, and the
chances of moderate success I believe, from my observa-
tions, to be far greater. I say moderate success, for the
chances of making a colossal fortune in this are by no
means so great as in the regular nursery business, while
to offset this the chances of failure are less, and the busi-
ness is pleasanter and less exhaustive to follow. I have
hardly ever known a man who started in the florist's busi-
ness to f lil, unless he brought failure on himself by his
own imprudence; while I have known scores to fail in the
vegetable and nursery business, from causes entirely be-
yond their control. A frugal man, with a knowledge of
the business and $1,000 capital, may safely start in this
vicinity, or in any vicinity where there is a town of 10,000
inhabitants of average intelligence and culture. But the
difficult question with all at starting is how to make that
$1,000 best available. Of course expensive erections, such
as we have described in the chapter on green-house struc-
tures, are beyond his means, and something cheaper must
be adopted. The general principle on which these green-
houses are formed is in all respects the same, and the
beginner with limited means, instead of erecting three
Ihouses, need erect only one, which should not be more than
j50 feet long and of a width of 11 feet in the clear. The
proportions of height, &c., will be found in the drawing
on page 52. The sides may be formed of cedar or chest-
nut posts planked to the required height, having a lining
of tarred paper between the boards. In this way, at
present prices, a structure of this kind with flue, benches
and all complete need not cost more than six or eight dollars
