226 PRACTICAL PLOEICULTUBE.
per running foot, or $300 or $400 for a house of 50 feet.
But something else will be needed besides the house, and
sunken pits or cold frames should be erected parallel with
the east side of the gi-een-house and connected with it. A por-
tion, say half, of these, should be excavated to the depth
of 2 feet, and used as a sunken pit for Koses, &c., as de-
scribed in the chapter on Roses; the cold frame portion,
which is not sunken but made level with the soil, can be
used to grow the hardier sorts of flower.^, as Pansies, Dai-
sies, Pinks, &c. I here again repeat that the Rose, unless
grown to force for winter flowers, is easily injured by fire
heat, which it must necessarily receive if placed in the
green-house, in which are grown a variety of plants that re-
quire fire heat.
These pits and cold frames should be covered up care-
fully, either with shutters or mats, during severe weathe?
in winter, and care taken that all water is thoroughly
drained ofi" from them. These sunken pits and cold
frames of 25 feet each will cost say $100, which, togeth-
er with the purchase of stock and coal to last through
the winter, would make the expenditure to this date, No-
vember, $600 or $700, leaving $300 or $400 for expenses in
winter, or until sales open in spring. If the plants
have been handled with even average skill, the sales
should by June give a profit of at least 50 per cent on
the capital invested, supposing the plants to be sold at the
average retail rates.
I am not prepared to say what the profits on the capita]
invested are when business is done on a large scale, the
articles grown, the manner of selling, and economy of
management, being so varied that in this, as in all other
occupations in life, we have all degrees of success. But the
broad fact is beyond question that the profits of the business
will compare favorabJy with the general run of business
in which the same capital is invested.
One fact, very flattering to our florists in this country
