16 PEACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
ing the lower parts, the Madeira Vine, Canary-bird Plant,
and Adlumia. Some of the new CucurbitacesB, the broad-
leaved Periwinkle, Ivies, and a number of other sorts,
may be recommended.
I intend, in progressing with the explanation of the
»mmbered objects of this plan, to give a list of such trees
and shrubs as are required on a small place. It is a
point which ought always to be considered, that trees and
shrubs fit for a large place are not exactly suited to a
small one, whatever may be their appearance or effect in
the first four or five years ; the mistakes are only seen in
after years. Fortunately for the generality of the " land-
scapers," before the effect of their work is shown, the
owner has removed to a bigger house, or the planting has
been neglected and the trees have died, or the "land-
scaper" has found employment far away out West, caring
very little how his chef d^CQumes in the East may look.
At 2 is the terrace, with the embankment. Small em-
bankments ought to be of the most simple shape ; any
fancy outlines in the slope, on a small scale, will only be
seen when the grass is freshly cut short, and they are
therefore of no use. 3 is the main approach to the dwell-
ing. (See scale for width.) At 20, in a small circle, it is
intended to employ a fine bush of Pyrus Japonica, to
interrupt the view from the street. 4 is a smaller walk,
intended for the use of the family, but forming with the
walk 3 a continuous circuit around the place. 5 is intend-
ed for a small yard in the rear of the house, with the well
at 13. 6, a six-foot walk, passing underneath the arbor ;
a shady place in summer. 7, the arbor, with only spare
room enough left in its rear for attending to the climbers
and grape vines planted against it. 8, intended to be a
shed for wood and other articles, besides a hen-house,
with hen-yard, at 10. 9, ofiice. 11, a bench, or resting-
place. 12, benches, or even stone seats, in recesses. 14, a
grass plot, to be used for a drying-ground, and also as
