I'LANTIXG OF FLOWEK-BEDS. 31
for it often resembled just such patterns as would make a
beautiful carpet. This style is meeting now with much
opposition from Mr. Robinson, editor of the " Garden^'' and
many others; but whatever may be objectionable to those
whose conceptions of gardening are beyond this rectan-
gular system, there is no denying the pleasure that it
gives to the masses — as was apparent by the crowds ad-
miring these flower-beds at Battersea Park, many persons
being engaged in sketching the plans and taking notes of
the varieties used to produce the eifect. This park of
Battersea contains only two hundred acres. Its natural
beauties are far inferior to either our Central, of New
York, or Prospect Park, of Brooklyn ; but its judicious
system of planting, which gives novelty and freshness at
every turn, conveys to the visitor a lasting impression
of pleasure that the plain, monotonous shrubbery and
lawn of our New York parks can never give. The public
parks in Britain or Ireland arc the best schools of taste in
floriculture the people liavc to model from ; and so it
should be with us, but with the few extremely limited at-
tempts that have been made at the Central Park the past
two years, there has been no ornamental planting of a
public character in the vicinity of New York. Some fine
examples of this kind of gardening may be seen in pri-
vate grounds in the vicinity of Boston, and at Forest
Hill Cemetery, at Roxbury, Mass., where the eflfects of
massing may be studied to advantage. The climate of
Boston is much less favorable for such planting than that
of New York, yet it is followed with gratifying success.
For beds, at a distance, having a background of shrub-
bery, large and bright-colored foliage, or showy-flowering
plants only should be used ; of these, an excellent eifect
is produced by having Amaranthus sanguineus for the
background, a j)lant of crimson foliage growing 6 feet
in height ; next that. Salvia Gordonii, with its scarlet
feather-like flowers, attaining a height of four feet, fronted
