SOILS FOR POTTIXG. 33
limited knowledge of what he is imdertakiug, looks upon
this august authority in despair, and his heart sinks within
him when he knows that no silver sand is within a thou-
sand miles of him, and he is told, without qualification,
that it is necessary for his propagating bench, or as an
ingredient in his potting soils. He begins without it, and
as he will possibly make some failures, these failures are
laid at the door of the soil or sand that he has been
obliged to use, while the chances are, twenty to one, that
they were not. Not the least satisfaction I have in writing
this book is, that of being able to attempt the simplifica-
tion of many of our operations to such an extent as to
put the means of doing the work within reach of any
one. Not the least simple of these operations is the
preparation of our Potting Soil. We have, we may say,
only one heap — a big one it is — but it contains only two
ingredients, rotted sods, from a loamy pasture, and rotted
refuse hops from the breweries, in about the proportion of
two of the sods to one of the hops. The sods are cut
during spring or summer, and laid, with grassy sides to-
gether, so as to decompose, and the heap is repeatedly
turned until it becomes friable. The rotted refuse hops
(one year old), or rotted manure, is then added, either at
once or when the soil is wanted for potting. For small
pots, — from 2 to 4 inches — we run it through a sieve of ^-
inch meshes, which thoroughly incorporates the parts ; for
larger pots, it is not necessary to run it through a sieve,
unless, perhaps, for the sake of thoroughly mixing, it may
be quicker to run it through a l|-inch screen or sieve. If
the loam is rather clayey, we use more hops ; if rather
sandy, less than the proportion named. If refuse hops
are not attainable, thoroughly rotted horse or cow manure
will do nearly as well. From this mould heap the soil is
taken in which our plants of every description are
grown and flowered; we make no exceptions, unless
in the case of the few fine-rooting plants, such as Heaths,
