34 PKACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
Azaleas, Epacris, etc. In potting these, we use about
two-thirds of the decayed refuse hops, to one of loam; if
the hops are not attainable, leaf mould from the woods
will do, in lieu of the hops, for this purpose. Our general
mould heap supplies the soil, alike for Bouvardias, Be-
gonias, Carnations, Camellias, Chrysanthemums, Daphne,
Dracenas, Dahlias, Fuchsias, Ferns, Gazamas, Gardenias,
Geraniums, Hyacinths, Liliums, Lantanas, Petunias, Pan-
sies, Roses, Tuberoses, Violets, and Verbenas. Whether
plants show vigorous growth under this universal applica-
tion of soil to their varied natures, our hundreds of
patrons, who will be readers of this book, can attest. If
any of the disciples of the old school doubt this, let them
come and have ocular evidence of the fact. Our location
is within half an hour's walk (or 15 minutes' ride) of the
city of New York ; our gates and doors are always open ;
visitors are free to go and examine as they choose. They
will see our mould heap looming up like a miniature
mountain ; they will see hundreds of thousands of plants,
natives of every clime, deriving their luxuriant growth
from this one source. While ignoring the necessity of
special varieties of soil, for special families of plants, I do
not mean to say that plants may not be gro wn as well by
the use of such different compounds as by ours ; but I
claim, as a whole, they can be grown no better, and that
the advice to make use of these combinations is bewildering
to the amateur, or inexperienced gardener, troublesome in
its practice, and of no benefit whatever in its results. In
proof of this, I have, on different occasions, received
Camellias from half a dozen different growers in Phila-
delphia, hardly two of whom use the same soil, but all
grow them well. So in the vicinity of New York, where
the soil is varied at the different points, as much as soil
can be ; yet we see growers using very different compounds
with equally good results, showing, as has long ago been
satisfactory to me, that special soils have less to do with
