36 PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
to the nature of a matured plant exists even to a greater
extent than it does ^vith the seed ; and one of the main
causes of want of success in cultivating plants under glass
is a want of knowledge, or from carelessness in keeping a
temperature unsuited to the growth of the plants. In
ordinary green-house collections the fault is oftener in the
temperature being kept too high than too low, for it is
much easier, requiring far less watchfidness by the person
in charge to keep up a high temperature. The injury
done by this is gradual, and will not, like the action of
frost on the plants, show in the morning. In consequence
of this, we often see the green-houses containing Camel-
lias, Azaleas, Pelargoniums, Carnations, etc., etc., swelter-
ing under a continued night temperature of 60° or 65°,
when their nature demands 15° lower.
It is true, we too often see collections of hot-house and
green-house plants intermingled, and attempts made to
grow them, which, of necessity, result in failure to one or
the other. The temperature to grow, in healthy condition,
Coleus, Bouvardia, or Poinsettia (hot-house plants) would
not be likely to maintain Verbenas, Carnations, or Gerani-
ums lofig in a healthy state. The same rules follow as to
the propagating-house, showing the necessity, even in a
greater degree, of observing the requirements of their differ-
ent natures. Coleus, Bouvardia, Begonia, and Lantana root
in a bottom heat of 75°, with atmospheric temperature of
65°, in ten days ; at 20° lower they will not root at all,
but will perish. Although cuttings of plants of a more
hardy nature will root in some conditions of growth at
this temperature, yet we prefer, to insure plants of vigor^
ous health, that Verbenas, Carnations, Geraniums, Roses,
etc., be rooted in a temperature at least 15° lower, both
in the bottom heat and temperature of the house.
The subject is one that relates to so many varieties and
different conditions of organism at the different seasons
of growth, that it is impossible to convey to the inexperi-
