THE TOTTING OF PLANTS. 43
is no question that, in the hands of a careful and experi-
enced man, it can be done, but it must necessitate much
closer watching in watering, involving much more labor
than the trouble of the safer plan of repeated shiftings.
The time to shift a plant from a smaller to a larger pot is
shown by the roots beginning to mat around the outer
surface of the ball. It is not necessary to shift when the
first roots touch the side of the pot ; let them curl pretty
well around the ball, but they must not be allowed to
remain long enough to become hard or woody. They must
be of that condition known to gardeners as " working
roots," a condition not very easy to describe, unless to
say that the appearance of such roots is white, soft, and
succulent. We would think that the mode of shifting a
plant from a smaller to a larger pot would soon suggest itself
to the operator, even though he had never seen it done ;
but it is a little ludicrous to see the various absurd
methods sometimes resorted to by our amateur friends to
attain this very simple end. One proceeds with a knife
and inserts it all around the sides of the pot, and thus
scoops it out ; another favorite way is to break the pot
with a hammer. I have known many of our lady amateurs
to j)ractice these methods, who, no doubt, knew well how
to turn a pudding or a jelly out of a form, but who did
not think that the ball of earth enveloping the roots of a
plant could be turned out of a flower-pot in the same way.
In most cases, the slightest tap on the edge of the pot is
sufficient to turn out the ball of earth. Soil, in depth ac-
cording to the size of the plant, should be placed in the
bottom of the pot, the ball placed in the centre, and the
soil packed moderately firm in the space, either by the
fingers or by a piece of stick made cf suitable size for the
purpose. When plants are first potted ofi*, or shifted, they
should be stood with the pots touching each other, if the
diameter of the plant is less than that of the pot ; but, a&
they begin to develop growth, the plant? should be spread
