THE POTTING OF PLANTS. 47
pcnse with your ci*ocking in growing Azaleas, Heaths,
Epacris, Camellias, and you will soon see how it will
result." Now if my theory is correct that the plant drains
from tlie sides, and not from the bottom of the pot, the
variety of plant has nothing to do with the matter, and
for that reason it makes v.o difference what is the size
or what the kind of plant grown, be it 6 inches or 6 feet,
be it a Scarlet Geranium or an Orchid. But though I
do not grow them now, I have grown Heaths, Camellias,
and Azaleas, without crocking, just as creditably as we
grow anything else. Heaths particularly, at one time,
we grew largely, supplying them to the trade in large
quantities, for winter flowers. I am glad to know that
nearly all the larger florists' establishments thoughout the
country have abandoned this useless practice. I do not
know one in the vicinity of New York but where it is
ignored, unless, perhaps, when in growing large plants
of Roses or Camellias in boxes or tubs ; but, in such cases,
there is not much chance for admission of air or evapora-
tion from the sides, and, to compensate for this, the
box or tub is usually filled with potsherds or charcoal to
one-third its depth. And, again, perhaps when pots too
large for the size of the plant are used, drainage to one-
third the depth is employed to counteract the injury that
would be done by too great a mass of soil around the
roots. That plants are grown as well in our florists'
establishments here as they are in England, there is but
little question. If the specimens of plants that we import
annually are fair examples, we think far better, although
I do not mean to say that the use of crocks is the difii-
culty ; but in these large European establishments the pro-
prietor is apt, in many cases, to get above his business, and
leave it to the care of his subordinates. One great bar
to changes is the easy maxim, that we are all apt to
hold, "Let well enough alone." This, perhaps, is what
makes thousands excuse themselves for what I think is an
