56 PRACTICAL FLORICFLTUEE.
is shut down, the bar is hooked on to a pin that secures it
in place, so that the sash cannot be moved by wind. I
am particular to describe this method of airing, as it is, as
far as our experience has gone, the best method we have
ever seen used. Tlie ridge-poles are cut out exactly as is
shown at J, and the sash lays on the shoulder, braced by
the ang^le shown in the cut. The interior arrano-ements
are shown by the end section. G shows the bench, or
table, as it is completed. The space beneath the bench,
if bottom heat is required for propagating or other pur-
poses, should be boarded up below the bottom of the
pipes, the lower board being hinged, so that, in cold nights,
addition^ heat can be given to the atmosphere of the
house, if required. But for the general uses of growing
plants, the benches must be left open below, so that the
heat given out by the pipes will pass freely to all parts of
the house. If one house is wanted at a higher tempera-
ture than the others, it will be necessary to board up
along the posts from the ground to the top of the posts,
and by wholly or partially shutting the valves in the pipes
of the other houses, throw a greater heat into the one in
which the high temperature is wanted. The walks
through the house (K) are 2 feet wide, which leaves 4-|- feet
on each side for bench room. These widths we find to
be the most convenient for the working of the plants ;
if narrower, too much space would be lost ; if wider, the
further side of the benches could not be reached easily.
The width of walk, however, must be determined by
what the green-houses are designed for : if for workmen
merely, 2 feet, or even less room, will do for the walk ;
but if visitors are to be accommodated, it should be at
least 2^ feet in width.
A brick shed (A) covers the boiler pit (F), and is
attached to the north end of the pits, the back wall
being about 12 feet high, the front 8 feet, width 16 feet ;
besides breaking off the north wind from the green-houses,
