PRACTICAL FJ-OEICULTUEE.
gases, so troublesome with flues ; besides, it is an immense
saving of labor, more particularly if the green-houses are
extensive. In our establishment, covering over an acre
with glass, but nine boilers are used, involving the work
of only nine fires. If we heated by flues, not less than
forty fires would be necessary, and at least three times
more labor would be required.
Fig. 16 is the end view and fig. 17 the ground plan of a
Hot-house, or Forcing House, erected by us last season,
mainly for the purpose of forcing flowers in winter. This
house has given us the highest satisfaction, and for the pur-
pose of a conservatory for winter blooming plants, we be-
lieve it will be found to be most suitable. So satisfied were
we of the practicability of this style of house for this pur-
pose, that we erected it of mammoth proportions, 300 feet
in length by 20 wide inside. It will be understood by the
sketch, that the roof is stationary, the whole slope front-
ing south, 15 feet in length, being one unbroken sheet of
glass. The back slope to the north, 8 feet in length, is
also fixed, but in that there are movable sashes 3 feet
square every 9 feet, for the purpose of ventilation, or about
one-sixth of the whole roof facing north. The movable
sashes are hinged at the top, and are lifted by an iron
bar fixed to the lower edge, in which holes are punched
every 4 inches, so that the ventilation may be graduated
to suit the weather. This amount of space for ventilation
on the roof would be entirely inadequate alone, and it is
one of the most common errors in building fixed roof
green-houses or graperies, to have insufficient means for
the escape of the excessive heat generated by the sun's
rays in May or June.
But this difficulty is easily and cheaply overcome by
admitting air from sliding shutters made in the front wall.
The size and width apart of these must depend upon the
dimensions of the green-house. In the house above re-
ferred to, we have them made 18x24 inches, placed in the
