68 PRACTICAL FLORICULTUKE.
twice as much. A green-liouse of this kind, 25 feet long
by 11 wide, should not cost more than $100 complete,
if plainly built ; that is, without heating. Heating is a
difficult matter in green-houses so attached, to dwellings,
unless in cases where there is a surplus heat at night from
furnaces or stoves in the rooms adjoining. In such cases,
the windows or doors, if low enough, could be opened,
and enough heat be supplied from the rooms of the dwell-
ing ; or, better yet, if it were so arranged that a register
from the fuinace opened into the floor of the green-house.
But when this supj^ly of artificial heat can not be ob-
tained, the green-house as it is will be sufiicient to protect
plants against any frost that is likely to occur in this lati-
tude after April 1st, particularly if light wooden shutters
are put over the lower tier of sashes. I have recom-
mended this style of green-house to many dealers and
retail florists in the difierent States. Those who are
simply dealers in plants experience great difficulty and
loss in keeping what they purchase for sale in stores or
dwelling-rooms ; for if not sold at once, they quickly get
injured. But this cheap and simple style of green-house
not only by its appearance advertises their business as
dealers in flowers, but it enables them to buy from the
wholesale florists at an earlier season. Besides this, they
can purchase in March and April at less than half what
the same plants would cost in May, and it gives them
time to repot into larger pots. Placing them in the
green-house Avhere they have sufficient space to grow, the
plants that are bought for $12 per 100 in March, Avith but
little trouble in potting, airing, and watering, will freely
retail for 50 cents each in May. These green-houses are
also economical and useful to the amateur who purchases
for his flower-garden in spring. Bedding-plants, as they
are called, can not be safely planted out in the Northern
States until the middle of May, and if the amateur buys
from the florist then, he generally pays quite double the
