PROPAGATION OF PLANTS BY CUTTINGS. 91
means indispensable to adopt, as sand alone, placed on the
boards or flagging, to the depth of 3 inches, will answer
the purpose very well ; but when the materials can be
procured conveniently, wo believe it to be preferable.
Some gardeners give preference to particular colors or
textures of sand, but I think that these have little or
nothing to do with the rooting of cuttings. In our ex-
periments, we have tried sands of all colors and of nearly
all textures, together with charcoal-dust, brick-dust, cocoa-
nut fibre, rotted refuse hops, and many other materials ;
cuttings root in all in nearly the same time and with the
same success, satisfying us, beyond all doubt, that the
material in which the cutting is placed acts merely as a
medium to hold the moisture. We use sand because it is
a clean and convenient material to work with, and is
generally easily attainable. In my earlier experience, I
was a victim to the popular notion that it was necessary
to use silver sand in the propagation of particular plants,
and was for years at much trouble and expense to obtain
it. But this even did not save us ; we were in those
days working at hap-hazard, failing quite as often as suc-
ceeding, until further experience taught us what were the
causes of failure and the conditions of success.
With exceptions so few, and those of so little import-
ance that it is hardly worth while to allude to them, cut-
tings of all kinds root freely from slips taken from the
young wood — ^that is, the succulent or un ripened growth
that a plant has made. The proper condition of the slip
at the time that it is inserted in the sand of the cutting-
bench is of great importance, — a condition which it is
astonishing to believe is so little understood among gar-
deners. Somehow the idea has become current that every
cutting must be made by cutting just below a joint or
just at one. The practice of this system leads undoubt-
edly to many cases of failure ; not that the mere cutting at
or below a joint either assists or hindei's the forma*
