98 PBACnCAL FLORICULTURE.
and propagating at a low temperature is capable of
producing a larger quantity of stock during the season than
at a high temperature and in a close atmosphere. There
need be no failures, and it has the important advantage
of producing a healthy stock, which the close or high
temperature system would fail to do in the case of many
plants. We have often heard propagators vauntingly tell
of taking out two crops of cuttings in 10 days. We are
well aware that this may be done, but we are also aware
that it is often done in damp and cloudy weather at the
risk of the whole crop, and it must be done at a high
temperature, which, at all times, causes the plants to draw
up slender, and thus impairs their vigor.
I am of the opinion that permitting a moderate circula-
tion of air in the propagating house tends to prevent the
germination of that peculiar spider-web-like substance,
which, for want of a better term, is known among garden-
ers as the " fungus of the cutting bench." Every one
who has had any experience in propagating knows the
baneful effects of this ; how that, in one night, it will often
sweep off thousands of cuttings that a few hours before
were in healthful vigor. But this insidious enemy of the
propagator requires, like vegetation of higher grades, con-
ditions suitable to its development, which evidently are
a calm atmosphere and a temperature above 55 or 60 de-
grees. Hence, to avoid this pest, we make every effort by
shading, airing, and regulation of fire heat, to keep the at-
mosphere of the house so that it shall not exceed 60^^.
This, of course, is not practicable when the outside tem-
perature in the shade is above 60°, but the tempera-
ture can be reduced considerably by dashing water on
the pathways and other parts of the house. It is rarely,
however, that the outside temperature ever exceeds 60
degrees for any length of time in this district before the
middle of May, and all propagating should be finished
previous to that time, unless of tropical plants, or plants
