104 PRACTICAL FLORICULTTTEE.
inches of clean sand. The engraving shows the cuttings
as they are inserted in rows in the sand. The space
shown is about 9 square feet, in which are set about 1,000
Yerbena cuttings. These are taken in the green state
from the old plants, cut into lengths of about 2 inches,
and inserted about half their length in the sand. They
are shaded when the sun is hot, and freely watered cTery
day until they take root, which will be in about 8 days
from the time they are planted in the sand. The proper
temperature for the sand is G0°, and that of the atmos-
phere of the green-house should be 10° lower. The sand
on the bench in which the cuttings are placed is raised to
a higher temperature than the air of the green-house,
either by a smoke-flue passing under the bench or by
pipes containing hot water. As soon as the cuttings are
rooted they are planted in pots 2' !„ inches in diameter by
2'!^ in depth, and again freely watered by a fine rose
watering-pot.
Figure 32 shows an inside section of n green-house, with
the plants in this the second stage of growth. These
operations are continued during the season, from Novem-
ber to May. In May the plants are ready to be set out in
the open ground. Some conception of the vast numl)ers
grown of this plant — the Yerbena — may be formed when
we say that 300,000 were sent out from this estabhshment
during the months of March, April, and May of 1873 ; and
when it is known that there are many hundreds, great and
small, of florists' establishments in the suburbs of New
York, all growing more or less of this popular summer
flowering plant, it may be easily conceived that many
millions are planted annually. We can well note the in-
crease of taste in the culture of flowers from this single
plant alone. Twenty years ago, when we grew 5,000
Yerbenas one year, we thought we would overstock the
market ; but we did not, and the vast increase that has
been steadily made tends to no such result. And it must
