CULTURE OF TUE EOSE. 113
Briers, most of the Mosses, and all climbing varieties that
are hardy m the latitude of New York.
Second. — The Hybrid Perpetiials, or Remontants. This
class is of comparatively recent origin, and was obtained
by hybridizing the Provence and Damask varieties with
the Ever-blooming or China. They possess the rough foli-
age and spiny stems of the former, with, to some extent,
the intermittent blooming qualities of the latter. This is
by far the most interesting class of Roses, and embraces
many hundred varieties, ranging through all the interme-
diate shadings from purest white to darkest crimson.
They combine the hardy, robust habit of the Provence
with its unsurpassed odor, but unfortunately they do not
jDOssess the ever-blooming qualities of the China. The term
*' perpetual," therefore, is a complete misnomer, for un-
less the flowers are cut off as they develop, and the plant
kept growing freely, but little bloom is ever given, except
in the regular season of Rose flowering, (here in June),
and again to some extent in the fall. They, like the pre-
ceding class, are all hardy in the vicinity of New York.
Third. — The Monthly or Ever-blooming class, which is
clearly distinguished from both the preceding by its more
delicate and shining leaves and stems. It comprises at
least four sub-classes, namely, tlie Noisette, Tea, Bengal,
and Bourbon. The Noisettes are aU of rampant growth,
usually flowering in clusters, and in the Southern States,
where they are uninjured by winter, are, perhaps, the
most valuable of all Roses ; a good type of this class is
seen in the Lamarque (white.) The Tea varieties are
characterized by slender growth, great delicacy of color-
ing, and the rich tea fragrance from which the class
derives its name. Safrano (orange yellow) may be
taken as a type of these. The Bengal class is not quite
so numerous or varied in color, but is now so inter.
mixed with the Bourbon and Tea, that it is difficult
