114: PEACTICAL PLOEICCTLTUEE.
to tell where to place many of its varieties ; a true type
of this class is the well-known Agrippina, (crimson). The
Bourbon class is an extensive one, coming nearer to the
Hybrid Perpetual in its large and double flowers and
more rnsrared o-rowtb. and to the Beno-al in the absence
of all yellow or orange shade of color in its flowers. An
old and unsurpassed type of this class is the well-known
Souvenir de la Malmaison, (blush).
All of this class are tender, and unless in situations partic-
ularly favored by a dry soil, and well sheltered, are either
killed outright, or cut down to the roots by the frosts
in winter almost everywhere in the Northern States.
Every now and then we hear of new varieties of this class,
which are represented to be hardy, but I would say to
amateur readers, and to gardeners whose experience in
such things has not been suflScient to guide them, that in
all such cases the vender either is ignorant of what he
says, or knows that his representations are false. There
is no more likelihood of our getting a Xoisette, Tea, Ben-
gal, or Bourbon Rose to prove generally hardy in lati-
tudes where tlie thermometer runs down below zero, than
there is to have hardy Camellias or Chinese Azaleas. A
few years ago, a Western firm had the impudence to
get up a stock of the old Noisette Rose, Solfaterre, named
it *' Augusta," and representing it as a " Yellow Ever-
blooming, hardy " variety, sold some thousands of it at $5
each. They seem to have sold their reputation at the
pame time, however, for after perpetrating the swindle,
they were not afterwards heard of.
It is with hesitation that we give a list of a few varieties
of each class, as' to name only one out of every score of
varieties seems to be unfair and invidious towards those
not given, which, perhaps, have claims surpassing those
we thus distinguish. But to describe the different colors
and characteristics of each class it becomes necessary.
