CULTURE OF THE EOSE. 123
in the usual way, without pots, a heavy percentage is
almost certain to be lost during the winter. To the florist
without proper means of propagation, this method of
layering Roses in pots will be found very advantageous,
as every layer so made will make an excellent flowering-
plant by spring, if kept in a green-house or frame during the
winter, and will prove nearly as valuable to the purchaser
as large one-year-old plants would. Roses are also pi'op-
agated by budding in the usual way. Budding, like layer-
ing, may be performed on the Rose at any time during the
season from June to September, although it is best to per-
form it either so early, say before the middle of July, that
the buds will start and the shoots get time to ripen before
frost, or so late, from the end of August to the 1st of Oc-
tober, that the buds will remain dormant until spring.
That the operation may be successful, it is essential
that the stock be in thrifty growth, so that the bark will
freely part from the stem, and, also, that the bud to be
inserted be taken from a healthy-growing plant, the eye
or bud at . the axil of the leaf being well developed.
There is quite a diversity of opinion among diflerent
operators whether the thin piece of Avood should be re-
moved from the bud before insertion. We have experi-
mented extensively in both ways, and found but little
difierence in our success, and have finally settled down to
the practice that if the bud is young and unripened, the
wood be allowed to remain ; if well ripened, it is taken
out. In tying, we prefer the soft cotton used for lamp-
wick in preference to any other material, as it expands
with the growth of the shoot, doing away with the neces-
sity of slacking the tie to prevent it from cutting the bark.
I,.'.,-'
MONTHLY EOSES— HOW TO PEESEEVE DUEING WINTEE.
The question is asked me many hundred times every
season, " What kind of Roses shall I plant ?" I invaria-
bly recommend the " Monthly," rather than the so-called
