124
PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
" Pei'petual " varieties, Avliich, with very few exceptions,
sustain their " Perpetual " character by only once flower-
ing freely, in June, with occasionally a few scattering
flowers throughout the summer and fill. V7hile with the
monthly varieties, we have not only a monthly, but an
almost daily supply of floAvers, embracing far more vari-
ety of color, from June till November. There is no plant
sold, which, for the first season, at least, is so unsatisfac-
tory to the buyer as the Perpetual Rose ; tiie purchaser
in good faith believes that its name indicates a perpetual
flowering character, and is woefully disappointed to find
that the flowers or flower buds which are on it when pur-
chased are nearly the last that are seen on it for that sea-
son. True, its entirely hardy nature, sustaining it un-
scathed through the winter, compensates for the first
year's disappointment by a gorgeous bloom in June, but
this is all ; for the remainder of the season there is
little ornamental about it. On the other hand, the
Monthly Rose, the original types of which are natives of
China, are evergreen and ever-blooming, if not arrested
by severe frosts, for in the milder latitudes of our South-
ern States, they grow and bloom without cessation the
entire season, unless, perhaps, for a month or two in ex-
tremely dry and hot weather in summer. But now comes
the question, Are tliese Monthly Roses hardy in our
Northern States? , They are certainly not so with ordinary
treatment, but I will briefly describe a very simple j? roc-
ess by which they can be preserved in as good condition
during winter as the hardiest Perpetual or Prairie Rose.
The success of the plan, however, depends greatly on the
condition of the soil in which tliey are growing. If it is
naturally dry, having a gravelly or sandy subsoil, it is
certain to succeed ; but if wet and undrained, they can-
not be saved by this or any otlier process. The operation
is to remove three or four inches of soil from one side of
the plant close up to the roots, and of a length and width
