126 PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
middle of December) is that best suited for the latitude of
Nevf Yoi-k ; sections to the north or soutli must be varied
accordingly. Perhaps the best rule that can be given is,
to delay tlie operation until the ground can no longer be
plowed or dug with the spade. The covering of sod may be
removed as soon as vegetation f lirly starts in spring — for
tliis section, say t1ie middle of April — and the plants raised
to the npriglit position and closely pruned. It will be mi-
derstood that in the process of bending down, the roots
are only disturbed slightly on the side that has been ex-
cavated; consequently they have nearly the full vigor of
midisturbed roots, and the plants will grow in a way that
will amply repay the little labor bestowed upon them. Ev-
ery plant thus saved over has a value four-fold that .of any
thing which can be planted in spring, for the obvious reason
that it lias not had its roots disturbed by removal. This
plan is a great improvement on that sometimes practised
of digging theui up and burying them in the fall, to be
unearthed and again replanted in spring, for this cannot
be done without mutilation of the root, and consequently
diminished growth the next season. Plants of different
kinds vnry much in their ability to recuperate after plant-
ing, and few suffer more than the Rose ; hence the necessity
of practising the method recommended, in preference to
that of digging them up. But a still worse plan is, for
amateurs in gardening to lift their Rose plants and pot
them in fall, and attempt to keep them in the house or
cellar in v/inter; in nine cases out of ten they never live
till spring, and if they do, only linger out a miserable and
diseased existence. Roses are often exiDcnsive, and always
valued plants, and we can well imagine how natural it is
on the approach of cold weather to lift and pot them, and
l^lace them in the w^indow of a warm sitting-room or
parlor ; but this kindness is killing to them, for they are
not a kind of plant that desires heat at this season, or in
this condition of their growth. It is still more delusive to
