128
PKACTICAL FtORICTJLTUEE.
tion to the size of the plants. The potting is done rather
firmer than in most plants, the Rose preferring a stiff soil.
When potted, they are freely watered ; shaded, if sunny,
and kept close for 8 or 10 days. Now comes the most
important point, the place in which they are to be kept
dm-ing winter. This must be where they will not be
excited into growth ; an ordinary green-house tempera-
ture, suited for Geraniums or Fuchsias, would be destruc-
tive to Roses in tlieir dormant state, when they are with-
out '• working roots." If kept in a green-house at all, its
temperature should never exceed 40° at night, with fire-
heat, and if it falls down to 82°, now and then, it will do
no harm. But this kind of temperature can be best ob-
tained in a cold jDit or frame, where there is no flue or
pipes, or other means of heating. These pits should be
sunk from 18 inches to 2 feet below the level of the
ground, in some sheltered spot, facing south, and, above
all, so situated that no water will stand in the bottom of
the pit ; if not naturally dry, it must be made so by
thorough draining. The Roses placed in the pit should
be plunged to the rim of the pots in tan bark, sawdust,
coal ashes, or some such material. Air should be given
at all times when the weather will permit, and the sashes
covered sufficiently at night to prevent the plants being
frozen much ; a slight frost may not injure, but they will
be safer and better if never frozen at all. In severe snow-
storms, the plants being in a dormant state, there is no
occasion to uncover for two or three weeks, unless to
take precautions against the inroads of mice or rats,
which are often destructive. We allow the Roses, when
placed in frames, to remain in them until the middle of
February, by which time they have formed young root-
lets, and will then stand the higher temperature of the
green-house, to which they are then brought to get them
in shape to force into bloojn, so as *^^o be in salable con-
dition in April and May.
