132 PRACTICAL FLORICULTURE.
plant. No plants could possibly be in better health and
vigor ; and the amount of rose-buds gathered from Oc-
tober to May, 30 weeks, averaged about 2,000 buds per
week. At New York rates, which are vei-y low — say 86
per 100 — this would give about $3,600 for the crop. The
varieties grown I will name in the order of their value
here: Safrano (orange jqWov^i)^ Isabella Spruiit (canary
yellow), Bon Silene (carmine purple), and Bella (white).
These are all Tea-roses, and the varieties most valued for
forcing ; Bon Silene is the favorite, and is largely grown
about Boston. One florist there sent last New Year's
Day, 1872, to the bouquet-makers of New York 1,200,
for which he received $300, or $25 per 100. This variety,
from its delicious odor and rare and bright shade of color,.
is generally of twice the value of any other; but against
this advantage is the fact that it is less prolific of bloom,
scarcely yielding half the number of flowers in a given
space as any of the others named. The method of sum-
mer preparation for forcing is to secure good healthy
young plants that have been propagated in March or
April ; these, when first taken from the cutting-bench,
are placed in 2 or 3-inch pots ; if rooted in March, they
will have filled the small pots with roots by the middle of
April ; if in April, by middle of May. In either case
they should be shifted into larger pots as soon as the ball
of soil has been filled with white roots ; if left too long
unshifted, the roots become brown in color, and of a hard,
woody nature ; if in this condition they become checked
in growth, they never afterward make so fine plants. Of
course, until the middle of May, these shiftings of the
young plants must be done under glass, but after that
time they should be placed in beds of convenient width,
say 4 or 5 feet, in some free and airy situation. When
first shifted from a smaller to a larger pot, the plants
should be placed close together, the rims of the pots
touching; but as they begin to grow freely the pots
