CULTURE OF THE ROSE. 133
should be drawn apart, so that the rims stand an inch or
so clear of each other. This is very important, in order
to admit free circulation of air around the sides of the
pots, and develop strong and healthy roots. Until the
middle of June we stand the pots on the surface of the
ground ; but about that time it is necessary to plunge the
pots to the rim in sand, coal-ashes, waste tan-bark, or
some such dry and light material. If this is not done
they can hardly be kept damp enough ; and the intense
heat of the sun beating down on the sides of the pots
dries up the young rootlets. It is necessary that the beds
wherein the Roses are plunged should be so arranged that
no water will lodge at the roots, as that would be quickly
fatal. Last fall we found it necessary, after a heavy rain-
storm, to lift the pots out of the sand in which they had
been plunged, to allow them to dry. Forty-eight hours
of heavy rain would have killed the young roots. It is
also essential to watch that the roots do not get through
the bottom of the pot ; to prevent this, they should be
turned around at least every ten days, to break off any
roots that may have run through. It will be understood
that continued shiftings into larger pots are necessary
during intervals of four or five weeks during the summer,
until September, by which time, if well grown, they will
be of sufficient size to require pots of 10 or 12 inches in
diameter. If it is preferred that the roses be planted out
for winter flowering, it should be done in August, and in
solid beds in the green-house not on board benches. We
never shift them after middle of September, as the roots
they have then made are sufficient to carry them through
the winter and spring, stimulated, hov/ever, by w^ater
drained from the manure heap, which ^ve use twice a
week, from January on to May, diluted to the color of
strong tea. The expenses attendant on the cultivation,
and the interest on the investment of this rose-house the
past season, were about as follows ;
