Three FloraStar Winners
Announced
(from PPGA News. September. 10«41
Starburst Red' Geranium (Ball
FloraPlanti is described as a best-
seller: its uniform, centered flowers
— on shorter stems — do not fade
and last longer; It has pleasant scent
and compact habit A unique aspect
is that the large, single flowers have
white petals heavily streaked with
red in a kaleidoscope of patterns '
These variations are caused by
what breeders call a "jumping gene"
which makes the pattern unpredict-
able and each plant unique
Pink Ice Double Impatiens, one
of the Summer Ice series of double-
flowering, variegated-leaf impatience
from D.S Cole Growers. Inc . is de-
scribed as floriferous. very compact,
with fully double flowers (rich laven-
der centers progressing to light pink
petals) contrasting well with foliage
Its also easy to grow — with no pests
or disease and no growth regulator
requirements. Self-branching, it
grows 12 inches tall, its neat habit
lending itself to a variety of uses.
Patriot Rainbow' Lantana (Ameri-
can Daylily & Perennials) is "colorful"
and "uniquely compact," growing
only 12-16 inches tall It's multicol-
ored florets open electric yellow and
develop through tones of orange to
final fuchsia pink It thrives in sum-
mer heat, its compact globe-shaped
mounds make a dramatic low border
and work well in hanging baskets
and patio pots
For a free full-color flier des-
cribing cultural information on
all three, contact the PPGA office
at 1-800-047-7742
Bulb Media Tips
(from Greenhouse Manager. November.
1904)
Growers forcing bulbs for pot plant
production should take a serious
look at their growing medium A. A
DeHertogh, with North Carolina State
in Raleigh, said pure peat and sand
media can cut down on crop quality
"Pure peat generally holds too
much water, while sands have a very
low pH and quite a bit of salt"
DeHertogh said "They just don't
have very desirable traits"
Forcing bulbs requires a good,
well-drained mix. DeHertogh said
Here are some commercially avail-
able mixes that are acceptable for
forcing bulbs:
Tulips Ball Grower Mix No 2. Ball
Grower Mix No ^, Metro Mix 350,
Metro Mix 3t)0. and Sunshine Mix
No 4
Hyacinths Ball Grower Mix No 2. Ball
Grower Mix No 3 Metro 350. Metro
360, Metro 500, and Sunshine Mix
No 4.
Daffodils Fafard No 2. Fafard 3-B,
Fafard No 4, Metro Mix 350, Metro
Mix 360, Metro Mix 500, and Sun-
shine Mix No 4
Here are some additional tips on
growing medium from DeHertogh:
• make sure the medium is sterile;
• pH should be 6,0-7 0;
• soluble salt level should be low;
• the medium should be moist at
planting time.
• at planting time, make sure the
medium is the same temperature
as the bulbs (50F-63F);
• for freesia. Dutch iris, and lily
bulbs, the medium must be
fluoride-free
For more: AA DeHertogh. North
Carolina State University, 120 Kilgore
Hall, Box 7600, Raleigh, NC 27605;
Telephone: O|Q-515-201 I
Z.
BARK!!! The benefits of bark In a soilless mix go unrecog-
nized. Bark will make a poor mix better. Bark will give the ad-
ditional porosity (air space) that Is needed In basic peat mixes.
Not only Is bark an Inexpensive amendment, but If added In
enough quantity, It adds weight needed for efficient outdoor
plant production. And bark doesn't shrink or degrade the way
peat moss tends to do over a period of time.
Generally speaking, I have fewer problems with people grow-
ing plants In bark mixes than with those not Because of the po-
rosity, plants will root faster. Bark gives the drainage needed
for root development. And, because pythlum requires a wet soil
In which to develop, better drainage means less disease pres-
sure. Better drainage also translates Into less fungus gnats and
shore files— both requiring decaying vegetation, something that of-
ten occurs In wetter mixes. Bark also gives off toxins that sup-
press diseases that could develop Inside your mix.
Aged pine bark Is the key to--and bark ash Is the ultimate
for-stabllity. Bark insufficiently aged or only composted can ac-
tually be detrimental to your plants' health and vigor Poorly
aged bark will rob nitrogen from your mix In order to help con-
tinue Its aging and composting process (Bacteria Is actually
what consumes the nitrogen, but these bacteria are responsible
for the composting process I Having composting occur in your
soilless mix could cause shrinkage and collapse. Whether you
buy premade mixes like Metro Mix 360 or 5 10 (which use bark
ash and may have aged pine bark in them as well) or mix your
own, be sure to buy high-quality Ingredients. In four letters,
dogs say It all.
\im Zablodii. Terr/lory Manager. The SccKs Company. Northeast, is at
603-224-5583
OCTOBER NOVEMBER 1^04
