New Symbol
For Nursery/Greenhouse Business
Directional Signs
DAVID C. SEAVEY
Patience is Rewarded
The squeaky wheel finally got the grease as our dili-
gent persistence paid off Nearly two years have
passed since Rick Simpson. Rolling Green Landscap-
ing in Greenland, and UNH Cooperative Extension re-
quested approval from the New Hampshire Depart-
ment of Transportation for a business directional sign
exhibiting a greenhouse/nursery symbol The symbol
received approval from the New Hampshire Landscape
Association and the New Hampshire Plant Growers As-
sociation The New Hampshire Department of Trans-
portation Bureau of IVlunicipal Highways approved the
request in September. 1004
We all know that gardening is one of the most
popular recreational activities and that ornamental
plants improve our quality of life and the air we
breathe Now the potted plant symbol finds itself
among the ranks of other symbols designating summer
and recreational activities and necessary services: gas
stations, restaurants, and lodging
Past History
A united effort involving UNH Cooperative Extension,
New Hampshire Farm Bureau Federation, New Hamp-
shire Tree Fruit Growers Association. New Hampshire
Vegetable Growers Association, and New Hampshire
Small Fruit Growers influenced the "powers that be'
to adopt a special section dealing with tourism and
roadside marketing of agricultural products. In IQOO, a
rule change by the New Hampshire Department of
Transportation allowed roadside horticultural opera-
tions to erect business directional signs on all state
highway right-of-ways except interstate turnpikes and
divided limited-access highways
The legislature has mandated the business direc-
tional sign as an official state sign which takes prece-
dence over local town sign ordinances
Qualifications
• One of two criteria must be met:
I A principal activity is education or illustration
of the history or development of specialized ag-
ricultural products, processes, or husbandry
2. A principal activity is the production and sale
of seasonal agricultural products An operation
that is strictly wholesale would not be eligible.
• The business must be open at least five hours a
day, five days a week, and three months of the year.
If the business is closed for more than fifteen days,
the sign must be removed or covered
• The sign must be within five miles of the
business
Sign Construction
Signs are manufactured in accordance with state speci-
fications and have a high quality of workmanship
The applicant bears all costs of sign manufacture,
installation .and maintenance In a given instance, one
operator purchased two business directional signs for
$56700
1 6 ft X lb in . 5-inch letters on blue background:
2 7 ft X 20 in , 6-inch letters
The state will determine the location of signlsl,
number of signs, and supervise their installation One
panel per business per sign is allowed
Due to the exact requirements involving letter size,
materials, etc . it is best to leave construction to a
professional private sign maker or the sign shop at
the State Prison Correctional Industries
Application
A new permit is issued each year on April 1st, It is
important to apply early because it will take approxi-
mately three months for approval The yearly permit
fee is $10
Where to Go
It is necessary that consistency be maintained in the
manufacture of these signs For application forms and
sign specifications, contact Robert Barry. Administra-
tor, Bureau of IVlunicipal Highways, or Walter Keyen-
hoff. Department of Transportation, Room III, Hazen
Drive, Concord, NH OS^Ol Telephone (603) 271-2107
Thank them for their support
Dave Seavey is Extension Educator, hgricullural Resources,
UNH Cooperative Extension. Merrimack County
OCTOBER NOVEMBER
21
