-^
a factor over which the farm stand operator has little
control. Some farm stands have tried "accessory out-
lets" such as smaller portable stands which are
erected at busy intersections, fairs, shows, and other
community events These small stands have the ad-
vantage in that they can be used where there is a
large concentration of potential customers, reduce
travel distance and — if properly constructed — also
help to promote the "main" farm stand while they
showcase its finest products Unfortunately, these
smaller portable stands do require additional labor
that is often not available to the smaller operators.
Convenience also means that customers can easily
locate, park at, and enter your farm stand Good
signage with your name, products, and hours of opera-
tion make your business more customer friendly. Con-
gested or poorly maintained parking areas may deter
potential customers Muddy or cluttered entrances are
less than inviting to many folks who may have become
accustomed to electric doors
THE EXPERIENCE
Experience is an excellent marketing tool that is often
overlooked Visiting a farm stand "in the country" of-
fers the consumer a chance to experience a change of
pace from the city Many older consumers remember
growing up on the farm and use the farm stand shop-
ping experience as a means to reminisce Young fami-
lies enjoy the scenery, the smells of fresh produce,
and the chance to learn about local agriculture Farm
stand operators should learn to utilize the consumers
desire to experience something they can't get at the
mall or shopping plaza Decorations of brightly col-
ored flowers and produce, strategic displays of unique
or locally preferred products, and courteous customer
relations provide for a positive and memorable expe-
rience that can lead to repeat sales for many seasons
PRICE
Price is one of the first things the consumer considers
when buying agricultural products. While it is difficult
for many of the smaller operators to compete against
larger corporate outlets, prices for the most part re-
main comparable and competitive While large outlet
chains have the advantages of volume purchasing,
they must also contend to some degree with product
perishability and shipping costs This is where local
farm stand have a slight advantage Most consumers
are willing to spend slightly more for what they per-
ceive to be a better quality product
These are only a few of the marketing strategies
that enable the farm stand operator to build and
maintain a viable customer base and remain competi-
tive in today's highly volatile market.
Since December 13, 1093, Paul Rees has been Extension Edu-
cator for Agricultural Resources for Sullivan County. This
article is an opportunity for him to introduce himself to The
Plantsman readers and share some of the observations he's
made while visiting agricultural enterprises during his first year
at his new ioh. He's al 24 Main Street. Newport, and can be
reached at 603-863-0200.
RED HEMLOCK
DOESN'T GET MULCH
BETTER THAN THIS
Morse Bros,
our guaronlet
is eflering very special pricing on
ed Hemlock Bark Mulch from Maine
$-050
■ ^^ per yore
Prize
Hemlock
$15^ $14"
Deluxe Burgundy
Hemlock Hemlock
All prices
Call for Details
FOB Windham. Effective Date: 5/23
1-800-866-4991
MORSE BROS.
32 Gombo Rd., Windham, ME 04062
(Tel) 207-892- UOO (Fax) 207-892-3400
