I9II.] WITH REFLECTING GRATING. 131
is diminished, the black band at G gradually vanishes and in its
place appear the coarsest fringes producible. When the slit F is
removed these coarse fringes disappear. The fringes visible
through the slit have however both an inferior and superior limit
of angular size. When e is diminished to zero they vanish and
when e is sufficiently increased they again vanish, though they now
appear when the slit is either removed or widened. From this it
follows that the coarsest fringes come from the edges of the crack
6^ of the gratings, and that the remainder of the grating will not pro-
duce coarse fringes. By moving the slit the fringes may be made
to appear in any other part of the spectrum.
The same fact may be proved by putting the vertical slit F over
the lens of the collimator and allowing the white light L to fall on
the edges of the grating at 5". Coarse fringes limited as to range
and size are then seen throughout the spectrum at g.
Whenever the slit or vertical stop is used, the fringes are ex-
ceptionally sharp and easily controlled for micrometry. It is not
even necessary to adjust the two spectra horizontally with the same
care as when no slit is used, but the vertical coincidence of spectrum
lines must be sharp. Naturally the use of the slit has one draw-
back, as the resolving power of the grating is decreased and the
spectrum lines are only just visible. The adjustment, however, may
be made before the slit is added. A few examples may be given.
For a slit i mm. wide over the telescope or collimator, only the
immediate edges at the crack S, about .5 mm. each in breadth, are
active. A narrow range of large fringes are seen in the field easily
controlled by the micrometer screw. With a slit 3 mm. in width
the lower limit is much increased the upper diminished, to a size
of about 3 inches per fringe. In the absence of the slit the field is
free from fringes. \\'ith a slit 6 mm. wide, the upper limit is again
decreased the lower much increased ; nevertheless the finest fringes
appear only after the slit is removed. Using double slits over the
collimator, each i mm. wide and 3 mm. apart, fringes of medium
size limited at both ends appear; 3 mm. slits 6 mm. apart show only
the very fine fringes, but both sizes are still limited. Finally when
all but about .5 mm. of the edge of the crack of the grating g' is
