132 BARUS— ELLIPTIC INTERFERENCE [April 21,
screened off, whereas the whole grating g (about one half inch
square) is without a screen, all the fringes from the maximum size
to complete evanescence beyond the range of visibility are pro-
ducible. Naturally if the edge of g' is quite dark everything
vanishes.
It follows therefore that pairs of corresponding rays are always
in question. These corresponding rays are at a definite ND, apart
where D is the grating space and A^ the number of lines per cm. of
the grating in question. This distance ND is greater as the fringes
are smaller and may be of the order of a cm. when the fringes pass
beyond the range of visibility. Again ND is equal to the width of
the crack when the largest fringes vanish. Finally when ND is
zero, as in the original unbroken grating, the size of the fringes is
infinite.
It has been stated that the use of the slit or a laterally limited
objective is advantageous because all the lines are much sharper.
Inert or harmful illumination is cut off. If the slit is over the
objective of the telescope only a small part of the field of view shows
the lines; if placed over the objective of the collimator, the fringes
are of extreme clearness throughout the spectrum. It may be ulti-
mately of advantage to use the edge near the crack g' only, together
with the whole of g. For if a small strip of g' at the crack 5" is
used with the whole of g, the smaller fringes are weakened or wiped
out. Thus the inner edge of the nearer grating with successive
parts of the further grating is chiefly effective in the production of
these interferences.
To bring the two edges quite together was not possible in my
work, as they were rough and the apparatus improvised.
7. Data. — Some measurements were attempted, with the view
only of checking the equations presently to be deduced. The adjust-
ment on an ordinary spectrometer is not firm enough and the fringes
being very fine (a few minutes of arc) are difficult to follow unless
quite stationary.
Table I., however, gives both the values of de/dn, displacement
per fringe, for different angles of incidence i and of diffraction 6,
and dO/dii, the angular deviation per fringe at the D line. In meas-
