140 MILLER— SUBSTITUTIONS OX Ji LETTERS. [April 20,
regular groups, each of these regular constituent groups being trans-
formed into every other under G. In particular, the degrees of these
separate regular groups are systems of imprimitivity of G.
While K is composed of all the substitutions on these letters
which are commutative with every substitution of G it is not
generally true that G is also composed of all the substitutions which
are commutative with every substitution of K and involve only the
letters of K. It is evident that a necessary and sufficient condition
that such reciprocal relations should exist between G and A' is that
G involves as an invariant subgroup the direct product of n/a
regular groups, and that the remaining substitutions of G permute
these regular groups according to the symmetric group of degree
n/a. The order of G must therefore be
a'' • k!, where k^n/a.
Hence the theorem : A necessary and sufficient conditio)i that a tran-
sitive group G of degree 11 ini'oli'e all the substitutious on these n
letters zvhich arc commutative zvith every substitution of the group
K composed of all the substitutions on these n letters zvhich are
coiumitative with e-c'cry substitution of G, is that the order of G be
a^ ■ k!, zvhcre the degree of the subgroup of G which is composed
of all its substitutions which omit a giicn letter is n — a and
k = n/a.
When G does not include all the substitutions which are commu-
tative with every substitution of K it is clearly a subgroup of the
group formed by such substitutions. Hence we have the theorem :
// a transitive group of degree n is such tliat a subgroup composed
of all its substitutions which omit a given letter is of degree n — a
the order of this transitive group must divide a^ • k !, where k ^n/a.
To illustrate this theorem as well as the theorem of the preceding
paragraph we may use for G the group of the square represented as
a substitution group on four letters. In this case a = 2, k = 2,
and the order of G is exactly a'' ■ k! Moreover, K is of order 2, and
of degree 4, and G includes all the substitutions on these four letters
which are commutative with every substitution of K, so that G and
K are so related that each is composed of all the substitutions on
