19".] MILLER— SUBSTITUTIONS OX n LETTERS. 141
these letters which are commutative with every substitution of the
other. A necessary and sufficient condition that K he a. subgroup of
G, when G and K are so related that each is composed of all the
substitutions on these letters which are commutative with every
substitution of the other, is that K be abelian. ^^'hen G and K are
both abelian they must be regular and identical.
It may be of interest to consider several of the special cases of
the general theorems expressed above. \\'hen a^i. K is the
identity. That is. if the subgroup, composed of all the substitutions
which omit a given letter of a transitive group of degree n, is of
degree ;/ • — ■ i the identity is the only substitution on these n letters
which is commutative with every substitution of this transitive
group, and the order of this group divides n! In the other extreme
case, when a = n, the given theorems include the main known
results as regards the substitutions which are commutative with
every substitution of a regular group. As the term conjoints has an
established meaning as regards regular groups it seems undesirable
to use this term with the more general meaning that each of two
substitutions groups of degree »/ is composed of all the substitutions
on these 7i letters which are commutative with every substitution
of the other. We shall therefore call such groups amicable, using a
term of Greek number theory. Hence we may say that a necessary
and sufficient condition that a transitive group of degree )i is one of
a pair of amicable groups is that its order be a.'^' • k!, n — a being
the degree of one of its subgroups composed of all its substitutions
which omit a given letter, and k = n/a. This proves also incident-
ally that ;; is always divisible by a.
From the preceding results it is easy to deduce a theorem as
regards the total number of the transitive groups of degree n which
belong to pairs of amicable groups. In fact, since K is composed of
simply isomorphic regular groups the number of the distinct possible
groups K is ecjual to the number of the dififerent abstract groups of
order a, two substitution groups being regarded as distinct only
when it is not possible to transform one into the other. As G is
completely determined by K there results the following theorem :
TJic niinihcr of the distinct transitirc groups of degree n zvhicJi
