142 MILLER— SUBSTITUTIONS ON n LETTERS. [April 20,
belong to pairs of amicable (/roups is equal to the sum of the
numbers of the abstract groups ivhose orders are divisors of n,
including n and unity amoig these divisors.
§ 2. Amicable Intransitive Groups.
In the preceding section it was observed that a necessary and
sufficient condition that each of two amicable groups be transitive is
that they be regular, and that if a non-regular transitive group
belongs to a pair of amicable groups the second group of the pair
is intransitive. It remains to consider the case when each one of a
pair of amicable groups is intransitive. An infinite system of such
groups may be constructed by establishing a simple isomorphism
between n symmetric groups of degree n, n > 2, and determining the
totality of the substitutions which are commutative with every sub-
stitution of the intransitive group G thus formed. It is evident that
this totality of substitutions constitutes a group K which is similar to
G. That is, G and K are two conjugate intransitive substitution
groups each being composed of all the substitutions on these w^
letters which are commutative with every substitution of the other.
The existence of the two amicable intransitive groups G and K
of the preceding paragraph may also be established as follows :
Consider the n~ ;n-sets^ of the symmetric group of degree n as
regards the symmetric group of degree n — i. On multiplying these
n- 7;i-sets on the right by all the substitutions of this symmetric
group the n- ni-sets are permuted according to a group G' similar to
G, and by multiplying them on the left they are permuted according
to a similar group K'. From the fact that multiplication is associa-
tive it results that every substitutiDu of G' is commutative with every
substitution of K'. Moreover as every substitution on these n- letters
which is commutative with every substitution of G' must permute
some of its systems, it is evident that K' is composed of all the
substitutions on these letters which are commutative with every
substitution of G', and vice versa; that is, G' and K' are in fact two
amicable intransitive groups for every value of ;/. The group
^ If H is any subgroup of a group G, the total numlier of distinct sets of
operators of the form S^HSp. where Sa and 5"^ are operators of C, are known
as the })i sets of G as regard.? H.
