191 1.] MILLER— SUBSTITUTIONS ON n LETTERS. 143
generated by G' and K' is clearly imprimitive and of order {n!)-.
The existence of amicable intransitive groups which are not
included in the preceding infinite system can be easily proved by the
following examples : Let G be the dihedral group of order 8 and H
any one of its non-invariant subgroups of order 2. With respect to
H there are 8 w-sets of G since H is transformed into itself by 4 of
the operators of G. Hence these eight 7H-sets are permuted accord-
ing to a group which is simply isomorphic with G and has two
transitive constituents both by right and also by left multiplication.
Each of the two substitution groups obtained in this way is clearly
composed of all the substitutions on these eight letters which are
commutative with every substitution of the other and hence these
are two amicable intransitive groups whose transitive constituents
are not symmetric.
The substitutions which are commutative with every substitution
of an intransitive group G either interchange systems of intransi-
tivity, or they are composed of constituents which are separately
commutative with the various transitive constituents of G. The
latter have been considered in the preceding section. Hence we
shall, for the present, confine our attention to those substitutions
which are commutative with every substitution of G and interchange
its systems of intransitivity. It is evident that these systems of
intransitivity are transformed by all the substitutions which are
commutative with every substitution of G according to a substitu-
tion group, and that those transitive constituents of G which are
transformed transitively among themselves must be simply isomor-
phic in G. These constituents are clearly transformed according to
a symmetric group by all the substitutions which are commutative
with every substitution of G. Hence the theorem: // an intransitk'e
group G is one of a pair of amicable intransitive groups, and if the
tratisitive coiistitiioifs of G are sncJi that no substitution on the
letters of the separate constituents is commutative zvith every sub-
stitution of the constituent, then must the consituents of G be
symmetric groups.
It is clear that G may have more than one set of transitive con-
stituents such that all those of a set are conjugate under the totality
