144 ' MILLER— SUBSTITUTIOXS ON n LETTERS. [April 20,
of the substitutions K which are commutative with every substitu-
tion of G. In other words, the substitution group according to which
the transitive constituents of G are transformed may be intransitive.
When this condition is satisfied A' is the direct product of two or
more symmetric groups. This suggests a more general infinite
system of pairs of amicable intransitive groups than the one men-
tioned above : viz., Let G be the direct product of the p groups
formed by establishing simple isomorphisms between n^ symmetric
groups of degree n^, »„ symmetric groups of degree «„, •••, n
symmetric groups of degree ;/ (n^, n^, •••, n being distinct
numbers greater than 2), it is clear from what was proved
above that K is similar to G and hence G and K are ami-
cable intransitive groups. It should be observed that G and K
are akuays amicable zvhcncvcr tJicy arc siniilar but that the converse
of this theorem is not always true. This more general system of
amicable intransitive groups may clearly be constructed by forming
the direct product of the p symmetric groups of degrees Hj, jIo, •■-,
lip respectively and forming the ;n-sets as regards the subgroups H
obtained by forming the direct i)roduct of p symmetric groups of
degrees n, — i, n.-. — i, ••-, n — i respectively, one being taken
from each of the given symmetric groups, in order. If the /;;-sets
thus obtained are multiplied on the right and on the left by all the
operators of these sets there clearly results the two systems of
amicable intransitive groups in question.
To obtain a still more general infinite system of amicable intran-
sitive groups it should be first observed that the intransitive group
formed by establishing a simple isomorphism between in^ symmetric
groups of degree n^, written on m^ distinct sets of letters, is amicable
with the one obtained by establishing a simple isomorphism between
n^ symmetric groups of degree ;;?], written on n^ distinct sets of
letters, where ;/,, ui^ > 2. Hence it results that the direct product
formed by multi])lying p intransitive groups of degrees n^m^, tunu,
"'■> '^p '"p respectively, each being formed in the former of the two
ways mentioned above, is amicable with the direct product formed
by multiijlying the p groups of the same degrees respectively, but
constructed by establishing a simple isomorphism between n^ sym-
