ON THE LIFE AND WORKS OF HENRY CHARLES LEA.
By EDWARD POTTS CHEYXEY.
It has been so short a time since Mr. Lea was moving among us —
to so many of those who are here he is still almost a living pres-
ence — that it is well-nigh impossible to view his long life and to esti-
mate his great work as a thing detached from us, completed, a part of
the past. Especially may one who through his whole mature life has
looked upon ^Nlr. Lea with admiration as a scholar, with gratitude as
a kindly adviser, critic and friend, and with constantly increasing
appreciation as one of the world's • great men, acknowledge the
inadequacy of this sketch of his life and list of his achievements.
Indeed in this city, in which ]\Ir. Lea's whole life was passed, and in
this company to whom his personality and much of his work were
familiar, I shall frequently rather be bringing his career to remem-
brance than giving information concerning it.
Henry Charles Lea was born in Eighth Street above Spruce,
Philadelphia, in the year 1825. His boyhood has left a few sugges-
tive reminiscences. He remembered learning the letters of the Greek
alphabet as a child of six at the bedside of a mother well-educated
and strong in mind, however frail in body — the daughter of INIathew
Carey, the sister of Henry C. Carey. The intellectual atmosphere
into which he was born and in which he grew up is indicated also
by the studies in natural history of his father, Isaac Lea, and by his
own training under a private tutor. From this tutor, whose name
was Eugenius Nulty, a scholar of an old and rigorous type, and a
man of much individuality and force, he received an unusually thor-
ough and effective drill in the ancient languages and other funda-
mentals. A short stay in 1832 at a school in Paris, where he was
the only boy not a native of France, probably had something to do
with his easy use of Erench, both as a spoken and a written language,
during his later life. He remembered the French boys bringing to
school bullets found in the streets after the Parisian rising that led
