vi OBITUARY NOTICES OF MEMBERS DECEASED.
to the dethronement of Charles X. It was a long memory that
covered the history of France from the Bourbons to the thirty-
eighth anniversary of the Third Republic.
A more characteristic reminiscence was that of his desire, as a
boy of twelve or fourteen, for a copy of x^nacreon in the Greek,
which was unobtainable because of the necessity, in the shadow of
the crisis of 1837, of so rigid an economy as to forbid the expendi-
ture of fifteen cents for the cheapest copy procurable. In a series of
visits to the Philadelphia Library he copied the whole of Anacreon,
and thus possessed himself of the first of his collection of manu-
scripts — none the less accurate probably because it was made in the
nineteenth and not in the ninth century. The publication in Silli-
mail's Journal when he was a boy of thirteen of a paper on
" Manganese and its Salts," the result of a period of study in a
chemical laboratory, may serve as a reminder that his earliest training
was as much in scientific as in classical lines ; and also that his mind
was of that type that must produce as well as ac(|uire.
By 1843 boyhood was over. At the age of eighteen, a new period
opened with his entrance into his father's publishing house, and thus
commenced a business career which was to last for thirty-seven
years, till his retirement in 1880. As a youth, during the next four
years, he worked hard at business in the daytime and equally hard
at his studies late at night and early in the morning. Few persons,
I think, can look over the files of the magazines of the years from
1843 to 1846 and realize without astonishment that the sixteen or
more long articles signed by Henry C. Lea were the work of a young
business man of eighteen to twenty-one, regularly occupied during
the long working hoiu-s of that period. He was fulfilling two
apprenticeships at the same time, one to the publishing business, the
other to literature.
It is curious to see the conflict of interests in the latter of these
fields between science and the humanities. In May, 1843, ^^^
iniblished in the Transactions of flic American Philosophical Society
a paper on " Some New Shells from Petersburg, \'a.," and in August
of the same year in The Knickerbocker of New York an article on
" Greek Fpitaphs and Inscriptions." In September, i8z^4, in a
southern journal is to be found a critical article by him on Leigh
