HENRY CHARLES LEA. ix
His services in connection with tlie adoption of the first Inter-
national Copyright Act had the special value that he was both an
author and a publisher, and could look on the subject from two
points of view. The first of his two long periods of service on the
Board of Directors of the Philadelphia Library began early in this
period, closing in 1879.
Before passing on to the characteristics of a later period it must
be noted that it was during this part of his life that ^Ir. Lea laid the
foundation of his library. So far as I am aware Air. Lea stands
alone among historical scholars in having done his work entirely in
his own library, without recourse to any university or public collec-
tion , and this library was entirely his own creation. He had no
nucleus for it, no aid in constructing it. No one who has evei
entered upon the serious study of a new field will fail to estimate
at something like its true value the difficulty of finding what
materials for its study exist, and of obtaining access to them.
In Mr. Lea's subject these difficulties existed in the highest de-
gree. Few bibliographical guides then existed, no older or even
contemporary scholar was at hand to give advice ; his ideals of
thoroughness were so uncompromising, and his desire for knowl-
edge of the actualities of the past was so keen, that the merely
obvious sources of information were quite inadequate to his desires.
Much that he did was pioneer work, in which equipment must be
constantly adjusted to newly discovered needs. Fortunately he had
means which enabled him to purchase books freely wherever they
might be found, and when the materials needed proved to exist only
in a manuscript form, to have special copies of those made for his
use. But the purchase price bears no very close relation to the value
of a library collected with care, insight, discrimination, years of labor
and watchfulness, and above all a constant realization of its character
as an instrument adapted to a certain specific end. I may perhaps
be pardoned if I say that Mr. Lea's bequest of his library to the
University of Pennsylvania instead of either burying it in a great
public collection, or allowing it to remain a purely private possession,
or scattering it to the four winds, seems to me to place in additional
clearness his conception of it as a working collection for purposes of
