X OBITUARY NOTICES OF MEMBERS DECEASED.
research, to serve others in the future for the use to which he him-
self put it.
In 1865 Mr. Lea anticipated withdrawing from active business
hfe, but the sudden death of his partner seemed to necessitate his
remaining in control, and he continued a publisher for fifteen years
more, until 1880, when he retired. This change was coincident
with or shortly followed by a second breakdown, which made him
almost an invalid for four years from 1880 to 1884. During this
time his restlessly active mind could not refrain entirely from pro-
duction, and he returned, for the moment at least, to the more purely
literary interests of his earlier life. He had always been fond of
making translations from various languages into English, and in his
historical as well as his literary articles he had frequently given
reproductions of old poems. He had also written verse from time to
time, and occasionally exchanged such productions with at least one
other well-known business man in Philadelphia. The war especially
had led him to write several poems. Some forty of these, mostly
translations from French, German, Italian, Spanish, Latin and
Greek, he gathered together and published privately in 1882 under
the title "Translations an<l other Rhymes." Whether from Mr.
Lea's temperament, mood or physical condition, these poems look
rather to the darker sides of life, its experiences and mysteries; as
in his own verses closing
The riddle wlio can read?
Who guess the reason why?
We know luit tliis indeed.
We are liorn, we grieve, we die.
With ]\Ir. Lea's return to his usual health in 1884 began a long""
period, twenty-five years, of vigorous, laborious and yet serene life;
old age it could hardly be called, although it carried him from his
sixtieth year through his eighty-fou.rth. llie many-sided interests
of this period of life and activity, I can scarcely do more than name.
A large fortune, watched over assiduously, and with very definite
theories as to its investment and use; scarcely less well-marked
abstention from certain forms of investment ; an unwillingness to
serve on res]:)(Misil)lc boards without ])erforming the labor required
by responsibility; discriminating and carefully considered philan-
