HEXRY CHARLES LEA. xi
thropic and charitable gifts — such were some of his most material
interests. He gave quietly, and only after the object had fully com-
mended itself to him. Such giving can hardly be described in detail
and must be left in the main to the privacy of purely personal life.
A few of the more notable of these benefactions, however, may be
mentioned. In 1888 Mr. Lea erected an addition to the Philadelphia
Library building, doubling the size of its reading rooms and book-
stacks. In 1897 he erected important buildings for the Pennsyl-
vania Epileptic Hospital and Colony Farm at Oakbourne, Pa., and
subsequently paid for the erection of still other buildings, added to
the endowment of the institution and contributed toward its main-
tenance. In 1889 he oiTered to pay for the construction of a building
for the study and teaching of hygiene and bacteriolog}- at the L'ni-
versity. This building was erected in 1891 and dedicated February,
1892. His library, as is well known, he bequeathed to the Univer-
sity. In addition to these and other substantial gifts to the Univer-
sity Air. Lea was one of that body of generous subscribers to its
general expenses who have enabled it, without the large endowments
of the other great Eastern universities, and without the munificent
state appropriations of those in the West, to perform a work fully
commensurate with theirs. For a number of years he subscribed
liberally to this purpose and lightened the burden of the Provost by
the kindness and readiness with which he gave.
Immersed in his literary work and devoting many hours a day
to it, yet the courteous host of the Wistar parties, the cordial giver
of time and advice to any who were preparing to entertain learned
bodies in Philadelphia, the participant in all scholarly projects in
the field of history, the ready writer of communications to the public
journals on all large questions that arose, the persistent walker
through Philadelphia streets, he was certainly not a recluse. His
face and form were familiar to a large circle of acquaintances and
he welcomed callers cordially. Among his more intimate character-
istics during his later life may be mentioned his habit of spending
some days or weeks each year at the Delaware Water Gap, in the
spring when the fruit trees blossomed, and in the fall when the
autumn leaves were in their glory. He was always interested in
wild flowers, knew them and their haunts in the countrv and at the
