xii OBITUARY NOTICES OF MEMBERS DECEASED.
shore, where he spent the summer, and he even botanized among
the flower stands of the old colored women along Market Street.
He was fond of curios and semi-precious stones, attended Philadel-
phia sales and corresponded with dealers in such objects, and made
an extensive collection of Japanese pottery and bronzes. He col-
lected also engravings and books on art.
But it was primarily to the work of the historian that the labors
of Air. Lea were devoted during this long period of his later life;
and it was as a scholarly historian that he won eminence and received
recognition in full measure. Doctoral degrees from Giessen, Pennsyl-
vania, Harvard and Princeton ; fellowships or honorary or associate
membership in more than thirty learned societies in Germany, Italy,
Russia, England, Scotland and America; medals, congratulatory
letters and private correspondence testify to this. He was long a
Vice-president of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. He was
urged to serve as President of the American Historical Association
soon after its organization, and finally consented in 1903. He could
not preside, as its meeting was held that year in New Orleans, and
he did not feel that he could make so long a journey from home, but
his presidential address on " Ethical Values in History" made a pro-
found impression at the time and was reprinted afterward.
These honors and this recognition were partly for his earlier work
on the history of mediaeval law, already described, but in the main an
acknowledgment of the series of great works which during this
period appeared in almost unbroken continuity. In 1888 appeared
the " History of the Inquisition of the Middle Ages," in three vol-
umes; two years afterward a volume of "Chapters from the Relig-
ious History of Spain Connected with the Inquisition " ; two years
after this he edited a "Formulary of the Papal Penitentiary"; in
1896 he published his " History of Auricular Confession and Indul-
gences," in three volumes. Then came a period of ten years in which
only one volume, the " Moriscos of Spain," and some pamphlets and
magazine articles were published. This long passage of time was
due to the fact that he was preparing his largest and most important
work, a " History of the Inquisition of Spain," published in four
volumes in 1906 and 1907. In 1908 he published a " History of the
Inquisition in the Spanish Dependencies," and was at work last year
