HENRY CHARLES LEA. xiii
collecting material and making notes for a " History of Witch-
craft," when he finally laid down his pen.
The late period of life to which this productivity extended is of
much significance. Few historians have died under sixty ; much
historical writing has been done by men in their seventies ; Ranke
and Bancroft at ninety, Mommsen at eighty-six, and ]\Ir. Lea at
eighty-four are only some of the most conspicuous instances of
a considerable number of scholars who with unclouded clearness
of mind and unabated vigor of spirit were drawing on their long-
accumulated store of knowledge and applying their slowly ripened
judgment to the problems of history at more than eighty years
of age.
The early part of Mr. Lea's life was contemporaneous with the
beginnings of American historical production. The historical works
of Irving, " Columbus " and the " Conquest of Granada," were pub-
lished during Air. Lea's earliest years. In 1834 appeared the first
volume of Bancroft's " History of the United States." In 1837
Prescott began his historical career by the publication of " Ferdi-
nand and Isabella." Parkman's first work, the " Conspiracy of
Pontiac," was published in 1851, and the first volume of Motley's
" Rise of the Dutch Republic " in 1856, when Air. Lea was collecting
material for his " Superstition and Force."
A marked difference, however, is to be noted between the his-
torical work of these writers and that of Air. Lea. Each of the five
chose as a subject a period of time or a series of events or a group
of personalities which possessed some well-defined dramatic char-
acter. The almost personal struggle, gigantic in significance, how-
ever limited in time and space, fought out in the Netherlands between
William of Orange and Philip of Spain, awakened the sympathetic
fire and was described by the literary grace of Alotley. The ro-
mantic adventures of Cortez and Pizarro, and the scarcely less
stirring narrative of events in Spain during the same period gave a
subject of unexcelled interest to Prescott. Parkman from boy-
hood was attracted, as he tells us, by the picturesque surroundings
and incidents of the struggle for the Northern continent between
the Indian, the Frenchman and the Englishman. Bancroft selected
the early and heroic period of our own national life, and Irving
b*
