xiv OBITUARY NOTICES OF MEMBERS DECEASED.
equally dramatic episodes. In contrast with these Mr. Lea chose a
much earlier period of the world's history and a group of subjects
during that period of which the elements are less emotional, more
intellectual ; in which the problem is rather to understand than to
depict, rather to explain than to narrate. Whereas their periods
were modern, he chose the middle ages ; whereas they recounted
principally events, he wrote principally on institutions. The medi-
aeval conceptions of law ; the organization, ideals, doctrines and prac-
tices of the mediaeval church ; the origin, development, connections
and influence of the Inquisition, one of the most characteristic
embodiments of the spirit of the mediaeval church — such were the
great problems he took up for solution. They were narratives, of
course, that he wrote, as all history must be narration, but they were
narratives not so much of incidents in the life of certain individual
men as of incidents in the life of mankind. He was dealing not so
much with occurrences — these served as illustrations only — as with
the development of principles. In this more difficult and more
philosophical conception of history Mr. Lea was a pioneer in Amer-
ica, and his choice was apparently made independently even of such
European scholars as had preceded him in it.
Why he made this choice has long been a matter of interest to
historical scholars. He himself could probably have told how rather
than why he took this attitude toward history. The wind of human
interest " bloweth where it listeth " and we seldom know just why we
have become so deeply interested in some one particular field of
knowledge or endeavor. But it is to be remembered that Air. Lea's
early surroundings and interests were largely in the field of natural
science. The analogy between the history of institutions and the
study of natural history is very close. There is the same subordi-
nation of the individual to the type, the same interest in logical clas-
sification, the same greater attention to observation than to exposi-
tion. It would seem entirely natural therefore that Mr. Lea, having
become interested in the Middle Ages, would wish to understand
and elucidate the rules and ideas of mediaeval law and organized
mediaeval religion, rather than merely to narrate the story of exter-
nal events during that period.
The same early interest in natural history, acting on a certain
