HEXRY CHARLES LEA. xv
type of mind and strengthened by a business training, may be the
clue to ]\Ir. Lea's adoption of so distinctly scientific a method in his
historical work. Scientific method is much the same to whatever
department of knowledge it is applied. It is simply the direct
method, going as immediately as possible to the phenomena which
it is intended to observe; the objective method, treating the phe-
nomena without subjective distortion or personal bias; the compara-
tive method, treating individual examples and occurrences as mate-
rial for classification and generalization ; the rigorous method, using
only facts that can be absolutely verified, or when this is impossible
discriminating clearly the different degrees of certitude of facts.
Allowing for certain difficulties in obtaining and interpreting the
material with which the historian has to deal, no biologist, chemist
or astronomer has been more true to these canons of scientific
method than has Air. Lea in his historical works.
There is one corollary of this attitude toward history, however,
that Mr. Lea was not willing to accept. To most scientific his-
torians it seems no more within their province to express ethical
judgments on the men and institutions of the past, or to draw prac-
tical lessons for the present from them than it is part of the duty of
any other scientific investigators. They deem their work done if
they observe, explain, narrate. According to their view it is no
more the duty of the historian to draw moral lessons than it is that
of the geologist or of the botanist. Air. Lea did not feel so. In
the preface to his " History of the Inquisition of the Aliddle Ages,"
w^ritten in 1887, he said: "' Xo serious historical work is worth the
writing or the reading unless it conveys a moral. ... I have not
paused to moralize, but I have missed my aim if the events nar-
rated are not so presented as to teach their appropriate lesson." His
practice already alluded to of bringing his stores of historical knowl-
edge to bear on present day questions in the form of occasional pam-
phlets or essays indicates the same belief, namely, that it is one of the
duties of the historical student to provide moral or practical teaching
for the community. Yet I am inclined to believe that the concep-
tion of the historian as also a moralist became less pronounced in
Air. Lea's mind as his life went on. In his " History of the Inquisi-
tion of Spain " his judgments of the church are less severe than in his
