xvi OBITUARY NOTICES OF ^lEMBERS DECEASED.
earlier work on the " History of the Inquisition of the ^liddle xAges."
His presidential address to the American Historical Association in
1903 was devoted to a vindication of Philip H. of Spain from many
of the charges against him, on the ground that men and institutions
must be judged by the moral standards of their own time, not ours.
He speaks of Motley's condemnation in a certain case as " the lan-
guage of a partisan and not of an historian," and declares that Lord
Acton's famous appeal, " to suffer no man and no cause to escape
the undying penalty which history has the power to inflict on wrong,"
to be based on a mistaken view of the function of history. He
points out that " history is not to be written as a Sunday-school tale
for children of larger growth." He was more willing, I think, in
later than earlier life to tell the story and leave his readers to draw
what moral from it they wished. In his own words, "the historian
may often feel righteous indignation — or what he conceives to be
righteous — but he should strenuously repress it as a luxury to be
left to his readers." Yet he did not entirely reject his earlier view,
for in December, 1907, only two years before his death he wrote:
" I have always sought, even though infinitesimally, to contribute to
the Ijettermcnt of the world, by indicating the consequences of evil
and of inconsiderate and misdirected zeal. The search for truth
has been stimulated by the desire to diminish the consequences of
error."
Yet sincerely as Mr. Lea tried to be impartial in his treatment
of the men and institutions of the past, he has been subjected to
serious criticism, principally from adherents of the Roman Catholic
Church. He has been charged with interpreting medic-eval docu-
ments unfairly, giving undue credit to doubtful documents because
they supported his views, and of allowing his general opposition to
Catholicism to draw him into a partisan presentation of his subject.
The changes have been rung on these charges in many dififerent keys,
but they are all re(hicible to the^e three forms, unfair interpreta-
tion of the records, prejudiced acceptance of documents, and an
anti-Catholic propaganda under the guise of history. Much of this
criticism has been made by men of no standing in scholarship and
may be safely disregarded as unimportant. On the other hand, such
criticism as that of Dr. Bhitzer, published in 1890 in the Historisches
