HEXRY CHARLES LEA. xxxix
about one of the most remarkable men with whom I have had the
good fortune to be associated in a long life.
The President :
The portrait of Mr. Isaac Lea, a striking copy of ^Ir. Uhle's by
Mr. Thomas P. Anshutz, of the Academy of the Fine Arts, will be
presented by Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, the worthy successor of Mr.
Isaac Lea as President of The Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia.
Dr. Samuel G. Dixon :
Mr. President, -M embers of the American Philosopliical Society,
Honored Representatives of our Mother Country, Ladies and Gen-
tlemen : It is my privilege tonight to present to you, on behalf of the
family of the late Henry C. Lea, a portrait of Isaac Lea, LL.D.,
by L'hle, that at last it may rightfully take its place in the series of
portraits of distinguished members, which adorn the hall of the
Society.
Isaac Lea's work was ended long ago; he rests beneath "the low
green tent." It may be fitting on this occasion to recall, if only
briefly, his work and services to science.
The honor of membership in this Society has not always an equal
significance. In most cases it is bestowed in recognition of large
performance in the domain of science or of afifairs ; but rarely has
a man's work been discounted, and a member admitted for what he
was expected to perform.
Eighty-two years ago this Society elected to its membership a
young man whose actual achievement was then small ; Init he was
destined to become, in his own special line of research, the most
eminent of his generation.
This young man was Isaac Lea. His life work was the study of
fresh-water mollusks. Born in 1792, of parents belonging to the
Society of Friends, whose English ancestors had followed Penn to
America, young Lea lost his birthright by serving in a volunteer
rifle company towards the end of the War of 1812. About this time
he became interested in geology, under the inspiring influence of
Professor Vanuxem, whose pioneer work on the geology of Xew
