xl OBITUARY NOTICES OF MEMBERS DECEASED.
York was soon to begin. Geological horizons are recognized by their
fossil shells, and Lea was thus led to study living moUusks, the better
to understand those in the rocks.
The receipt of some fresh-water mussels, sent by Major Long,
of the \J. S. Engineer Corps, then engaged in deepening the Ohio
River, was the occasion of Lea's first paper, which was published
in the Transactions of this Society for 1827.
Once attracted to this subject Lea found an inexhaustible field
for work. The great river systems of a continent marvelously pro-
lific in bivalve mollusks supplied material. Naturalists in all parts
of the country sent the species of their localities. His enthusiasm
infected others, and from North and South America, India and
Australia, material to be worked up poured in. Lea's work on these
great collections of fresh-water mollusks form a series of thirteen
stately and richl_\- illustrated (juarto volumes, part published by this
Society, part by the Academy of Natural Sciences. His last paper
appeared in 1876.
Every man who sets himself the task of cultivating one plot in
the field of intellectual endeavor must needs resist the voices calling
him to other tasks, lest in scattering his force, he fail of high achieve-
ment. Lea published but little outside of his special work. Several
]:)apers dealing with foreign materials included in gems and other
crystals, and one notable paper, on the reptilian tracts of the red
sandstones of Pennsylvania, were his main digressions.
In whatever direction, however, his researches led him he was
sure to pursue them to a successful end. The value placed upon
them by his fellow scientists is sufiicicnlly indicated by the positions
of honor to which they called him.
I venture upon any estimate of the value of Lea's work with hesi-
tation, since my own studies have been in a field widely diverse. I
can but give the verdict of those competent to judge, whom I have
consulted. Lea's work was mainly descriptive. It was the pioneer
work in his branch of zoology, breaking path for those who came
after. The march of modern zoology could not proceed without
such work as his. And it is the honor of this man that his work
was well (lone. While investigations growing out of Lea's work
may jirove to have what we term "jM-actical"' ap])lications, yet in
