2 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
tered in publications of many societies in six or more languages ;
many were merely separate pamphlets, now almost inaccessible.
Great scientific libraries are few and they are beyond reach of the
ordinary field-worker; while college professors and men connected
with official surveys rarely have leisure needed for thorough re-
search. The necessity for prompt publication, that fellow workers
may have the advantage of one's results, makes long preliminary
study almost impossible, in some cases almost unjustifiable.
The writer, looking forward to preparation of a monograph on
formation of coal beds, has examined many hundreds of publications
varying from mere notices to ponderous quartos and this preliminary
work is still far from complete. During the examination, he has dis-
covered not only that there is little new under the sun but also that
much, which is good and important, soon passes from men's minds.
He has discovered also that owing to quotation at second-hand, with-
out verification, some conclusions ofifered by the earlier students have
been misunderstood or even misinterpreted, so as to discredit the
authors. He has become convinced that a systematic presentation
of conclusions reached by his predecessors would not be useless or
unacceptable; it would exhibit the gradual development of opinion
and it would lead to proper appreciation of investigations made and
conditions, which, in this day, would be regarded as unfavorable ; it
would aid the students hereafter by indicating the road along which
to pursue his preliminary examination. Such presentation is offered
in the succeeding pages.
In preparing this historical summary, the writer, recognizing the
necessary limits of space, is compelled to note only such publica-
tions as deal especially with the topic under consideration ; and of
those, only such as are the outcome of direct study. The reader
may be disappointed by the omission of some authors and by the
admission of others ; but this is unavoidable. Many important re-
flections have been made by writers incidentally ; those will be noted
in the final discussion. No reference to opinions respecting the
origin of coal is given, except in cases where that question is basis
of the author's conclusion res]X"cting the mode of accumulation.
The plan of the summary may be open to criticism. The
2
