191 1.] DANA— NOTES ON CANNON. 149
give full details of the equipment of his troops, do not mention
either cannon or gunpowder. The " Wuh-li-Siao," published 1630,
says " gunpowder came from the outer barbarians."
The mention of an explosive in the Sukranita, a Hindu work
said to ante-date everything Chinese, is admitted by experts, I under-
stand, to be a modern interpolation.
The " Liber Ignium a Alarco Graeco Descriptus," dating back
of the eleventh century, gives some 22 to 35 recipes for the so-called
" Greek-Fire " etc. No G^eek or Aloslem writer ever uses the term
"Greek-Fire." Col. Hime, an authority on this subject^ concludes
that the earlier recipes in the " Liber Ignium," were translated from
the Arabic by a Spaniard. The first four recipes are for the com-
pounding of '■ sea-fire," or, as there described, mixtures which will
ignite "when rain falls on them." Quicklime was the cause of
ignition; to it was added (C. 1300) sulfur, oil, gum Arabic; (C.
1350) sulfur and turpentine; ( C. 1405) sulfur, petroleum, wax.
None of these were true explosives.
Berthold Schwartz, of Freiburg, in Breisgau, the favorite Ger-
man discoverer of gunpowder, made his discovery about 1320 to
1330, at the time the Florentines were popping off their " canones de
metallo." Schwartz is said to have preceded the Florentines in the
making of cannon but this claim has not as yet been established.
Lieut. Col. Hime undertakes to translate the " Epistola de secre-
tis," of the liberal minded Friar Bacon ( I2i4?-i294). This letter
is probably earlier than 1249. It is written according to some
cryptic method, a bad habit both famous Bacons indulged in, and
if the secret of the over-cautious Friar has been guessed with even
partial success, we have a right to suppose that while the good
Friar was " experimenting with some incendiary compositions . . .
the mixture exploded and shattered all the chemical apparatus near
it" (Hime. 161). After this smash-up. Bacon could not fail to be
convinced that saltpeter, sulfur and charcoal, when mixed in right
proportions, had a distinctly explosive tendency — but he never seems
to have advanced the next step and discovered the projectile force
of the compound.
^ Lieut. -Col. Henry W. L. Hime, "Gunpowder and Ammunition," London,
1904.
