191 1.] STEVEXSOX— FORMATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 3
original plan was to arrange the synopses topically, but this separated
the contrasting opinions of contemporaries ; the chronological
arrangement is open to the objection, that it breaks up the line of
argument for or against an hypothesis. Yet the latter seems pre-
ferable as more in accord with the purpose of the summary. It
has been followed, except where it would fail to show an author's
final conclusions or where it seemed necessary to bring together
widely separated observations upon a special phase.
The Hypotheses.
There has been little diversity of opinion respecting the origin of
coal. Geologists and chemists, with rare exceptions, have recognized
that the several types consist mainly of vegetable matter which has
undergone chemical change. But no such consensus of opinion
exists respecting the mode of accumulation in beds ; geologists, for
about one hundred and thirty years, have been divided into two
opposing camps with here and there an individual warrior carrying
on an independent strife.
The older hypothesis was suggested more than two centuries ago,
prior to the era of investigation, and it remained unchallenged until
the latter part of the eighteenth century, but it fell into disfavor
early in the nineteenth century. Thereafter, it had few, but earnest
defenders until within the last thirty years, during which it has been
urged with great energy. This, the doctrine of allochthonous origin,
conceives that coal beds are composed of transported vegetable
matter deposited in the sea or in lake basins. The conception has
assumed many forms but the essential feature of transport is com-
mon to all.
The other hypothesis, formulated in 1778 as the result of broad
field observations gained general acceptance about one hundred
years ago ; since that time, it has been held in one form or another
by a majority of geologists who have studied the coal measures. It
is known as the doctrine of growth /;/ situ, but von Gumbel's term,
autochthonous, has come into general use. According to this
hypothesis, the plants which yielded the vegetable matter grew where
the coal is found, analogous conditions being found in great peat
accumulations, especially those of the cypress swamps of North
8
