154 DANA— NOTES ON CANNON. [April 20.
The first mention of cannon by Froissart, who is as " faithful
as an eye witness," is in the year 1340 at the siege of Quesnoy, on
the northeast border of France, not very far from Valenciennes.
" Those of Quesnoy let them hear their cannons and bombards,
which flung large iron bolts in such a manner as made the French
afraid of their horses. "-
The earliest English use of this word bombard given by Dr.
Murray, is in a quotation from John Lydgate, 1430-. The noun has
left us, but the verb, to bouihard still lingers.
It is usually asserted that the first field-guns were used at the
battle of Crecy, August 26, 1346. The Florentine chronicler, Gio-
vanni Villani, remarks, in the somewhat florid manner of the time,
" the bombards of the English made balls of iron to leap with fire, to
frighten and drive off the horses of the French. . . . That the roar
of the bombards made such a trembling of the earth, such a noise,
that it seemed as if God thundered, with great slaughter of men
and beating down of horses."
This terrible slaughter must have been produced by three small
toys somewhat like blunderbusses, the charge for each of which was
an ounce, more or less, of very bad powder. Cause and effect do
seem disproportionate.
The " Grandes Chroniques de St. Denis " assert that it was the
three cannons of the English that spread panic amongst the Genoese
cross-bowmen and made them indulge in the singular antics by
which they sought to frighten the English archers. In only one
known copy of Froissart is there any mention of cannon at Crecy;
this happens to be that in the library of the city of Amiens, not far
from the battlefield ; there is some reason to believe that the words
in question are an interpolation ; when one remembers that from
Falkirk (1298) to Flodden (15 13) — Bannockburn excepted — the
•English archer, firing ten or more armor-piercing projectiles a min-
ute, with an effective range of 250 yards, was always victorious, it
does appear possible that French writers, with more patriotism than
truth, introduced these terrible cannon into their accounts of the
battle as an excuse for the crushing disaster to their arms.
Edward III. took with him several cannon when he entered
= Chap. IV., Book I., p. 40.
