I9"-] DANA— NOTES ON CANNON. 155
France, July, 1346, the month before Crecy. We have too the
King's Privy Wardrobe Accounts, as they were termed, giving Hsts
of guns, ammunition, gunners and other details of the ordnance sent
from the Tower of London to be used at the siege of Calais, which
followed the battle of Crecy.
At this siege of Calais only leaden projectiles are mentioned, and
from the very moderate amount of ammunition required for their
propulsion, the guns although called " great " must have been ex-
ceeding small. The main reliance of besiegers and besieged contin-
ued to be in the huge engines for hurling masses of rock and other
unpleasantnesses.
The derivation "of the word gun is not without interest. Consult-
ing both Murray and Skeat, we find that GuniiJuldr was an Ice-
landic, female, proper name, once applied to war engines. As Gunn
(Icel. Gunnr) signified zi'ar, and hildr a battle, it was certainly ap-
propriate. An account of the munitions in Windsor Castle, 1300/01,
mentions a large ballista named " Domina Gunilda." As there does
not seem to have been any great lady, famous or infamous, so called
in the fifteenth century, this is quite probably a survival of the old
Scandinavian name. The M. E. word gunne, is, of course, but a
shortened pet name for the fearsome lady.
Here is one of the early tragedies connected with cannon. In
1346, the year of Crecy, Peter of Bruges had established a high
reputation for the making of " connoiles." The word may come
from " tonnoiles," which in its turn, may have come from " tuyaux
de tonnoire," or tubes of thunder. In September of that year the
consuls of the city of Tournay hearing that connoiles were useful
to be let ofif in a good town when besieged, desired the aforesaid
Peter to make them one as a sample, and if it proved satisfactory
they would give him an order for more. Peter, the thrifty burgher,
did make one and then proceeded to show the worthy consuls what
it would do. The connoile was placed with great care, outside the
gate " Noire aux Champs." Peter states in his own account that he
loaded the connoile with a quarrel, meaning in this case a heavy bolt,
not an altercation. To the quarrel Peter affixed two pounds of
lead. From the subsequent happenings there is reason to suppose
that he did not omit powder. Peter " laid " the connoile so that it
