156 DANA— NOTES ON CANNON. [April 20.
pointed against a door and wall. The spectators heard a " cruel
noise," but the antics of the connoile remain a mystery.
In quite another part of the city of Tournay, an industrious
fuller was busily at work; when lo, along came the erratic quarrel,
with its two pounds of lead, — and the guild of Fullers gave their
deceased brother one of those picturesque funerals for which the
good town is so celebrated. When Peter of Bruges heard of this
mishap, he fled into sanctuary and gave himself up for lost. Then
followed a solemn session of the consuls. Contributory negligence
could not be charged against the Fuller, for if ever bolt came " from
the blue " it was this one. After a long discussion the conclusion
arrived at was : Peter of Bruges fired the connoile at the order of
the consuls ; he was not known to have harbored any ill feeling
against the fuller ; — they might have added that neither ill feeling
nor skill in aiming would have enabled Peter to hit the far-oflf
fuller. The consuls thereupon held Peter blameless, merely remark-
ing that the event was a misfortune and a sad pity.
A curious point is brought out by the list, dated 1347, of artillery,
in its broader sense, for the defense of the castle of Brioul in France.
At the fag end of the list we are told that one man managed two
cannons, and that the efficiency of their projectiles, and of stones
thrown from the towers by hand, was considered about equal.
Before glancing at the great bombard of Caen, 1375, which
marks a considerable step in advance, let me say that during the
fifty years we have glanced at, there have been cannon of wrought
iron, occasionally of brass. The largest of the former did not weigh
over 120 lbs. Breech-loaders were common, and the projectiles were
bolts, or balls of lead — iron balls are referred to, but never stone.
March 20, 1375, an order was received at Caen, in Normandy,
from Jehan Le Mercier. one of the King of France's councillors,
for the building of "a great cannon of iron." ]\Iarch 21 work
began by erecting three forges in the market place, and surrounding
them with a wooden paling to keep the curious at a proper distance.
March 22, the four smiths with their eight helpers began to draw
wages. Fifteen men worked for six weeks, sometimes at night.
April 3, Jehan Nicolle, a master smith, said to have been the best
in Normandy, arrived from " Sap." 2,110 pounds of wrought iron,
