160 DANA— NOTES ON CANNON. [April 20,
of Ghent, who took the field 5.000 strong with 200 " ribaudequins."
The latter were heavy built push-carts — Napoleon calls them
" wheel-barrows/' bearing in front two or three, sometimes more,
of the small cannon of the day, with an ugly fringe of bristling
lances projecting beyond. These disagreeable field-pieces were
trundled along in front of the line of battle. The efifect of two lines
of *' ribaudequins '" meeting and neutralizing each other must have
given rise to some curious tactics in battle. In this case the 5,000
of Ghent formed themselves into a dense mass and with " ribaude-
quins " in front, drove off 40,000 men of Bruges.
At the battle of Roosebeke, November 27, 1382, where the Flem-
ings were cut to pieces by the French and their leader Philip van
Arteveld killed, Froissart states that the battle began by " a can-
nonade with bars of iron and quarrels headed with brass."
This battle did not end the war, and a curious picture of the
ineffectiveness of the smaller cannon of the day is given by Lieut,
Gen. Sir Henry Brackenbury, in his account of the siege of Ypres
by the English and Flemings. The siege lasted from the eighth of
June. 1383, to the eighth of August. During that time a steady
cannonade was maintained, but apart from interfering with the
sleep of the good burghers of Ypres, not a soul was one whit the
worse. Two guns were advantageously posted in front of one of
the gates, and kept up a steady fire, in all 450 shots. When the
siege was raised those of Ypres were forced to admit that the gate
in question was in need of immediate repairs. ]\Iuch danger to the
inhabitants was avoided by a thoughtful device; the besiegers con-
siderately heralded by a trumpet blast each discharge; this enabled
promenaders to step aside and avoid any possible annoyance from
intruding cannon balls.
Another curious picture of by-gone days is given us in the
"Issue Roll of the Exchequer for 1384," in which the amount of
payments for the hire of cannon and cannoniers is given, making it
plain that private individuals often owned one or more cannons
which they hired out like cabs.
Viollet le Due mentions this same custom on the continent; he
says that during the middle ages the engines of war were made by
non-military workmen, and the same rule prevailed after the intro-
