1911.] DANA— NOTES ON CANNON. 161
duction of cannon. Xot only did ordinary mechanics make the new
artillery, they also served it; letting their cannon for hire as one
lets carts and drivers ; and it was not until the death of Charles VII,
1461, that they formed companies of bombardiers and culveriniers,
heavy and light artillery, like the companies of cross-bowmen and
archers, gave to them military organization, and placed them under
the command of the grand master of artillery.
The fifteenth century was one of development, very important
but less startling than its predecessor.
The most marked advance was in cast bronze and iron guns.
Pretty much any date after 1400 may be taken as the beginning of
that phase of the smelter's art. Erfurt claims 1377 as her begin-
ning; it seems needlessly early, but no one can say her nay. There
are two cast-iron guns in the Leipzig ]\Iuseum, one between 1400
and 1420; another, less archaic. 1420 to 1430.
Francis Grose says :
It seems extremely strange, that none of our workmen attempted to
cast them, [cannon] till the reign of King Henry VIII. when in 1521, accord-
ing to Stowe, or 1535 [Camden says], great brass ordnance, as canon (sic)
and culverins, were first cast in England, by one John Owen, they formerly
having been made in other coimtries; . . . 1543. . . [Stowe] . . . the King
minding wars with France, made great preparations and provisions, as well
of amunitions and artillery as also of brass ordnance ; amongst which at that
time, one Peter Bawd, a Frenchman born, a gun-founder, or maker of great
ordnance, and one other alien, called Peter Van Collen, a gun-smith, both the
King's freedmen, conferred together, devised and caused to be made, certain
mortar pieces, being at the mouth, from eleven inches up to nineteen inches
wide. . . . and after the King's return from Bullen [Boulogne], the said
Peter Bawd by himself in the first year of Edward VI. [1547] . . . did also
make certain ordnance of cast yron of diverse sorts and forms, as fawconets,
falcons, minions, sakers, and other pieces. Chamber'd pieces for throwing
stones, called cannon-perriers, port-pieces, stock-fowlers, sling-pieces, port-
ingale-bases, and murtherers, were about this time much used in small forts
and on shipboard.^
Of course all these guns were cast hollow ; that is a core covered
with clay, was suspended in the center of the mould while the metal
was poured in. Despite all precautions it was very nearly impossible
with the imperfect means then in use, to keep this core in place and
true; cavities formed in the metal about it, and the scoria did not
° Francis Grose, " Military Antiquities."' London, 1788, II., p. 383.
