191 1.] Dz-VNA— NOTES ON CANNON. 163
The difficulties in the construction of these big bombards were
greatly lessened by the system of forging the very heavy breech piece
so that it could be screwed to the chase — and unscrewed, when de-
sired ; the square holes for the levers, that worked like capstan bars
on board ship, are conspicuous in such guns, usually in the rear
ring of the chase, and at the rear end of the breech. In some bom-
bards there were three divisions, greatly adding to convenience in
transportation.
Here are the dimensions of the largest bombard that has come
down to us, the one on the Place du Marche at Ghent. The lady is
called " Dulle Crete." which they tell me can be translated " Mad
Meg." Her caliber is 26" ; interior of chase 10' 4", or five calibers.
Chamber caliber 10.23", l<?i''gth 4'-6.i6" ; five to six calibers. The
exterior length 16' 6". The gun is built up of 32 longitudinal iron
bars, 2.17" wide. 1.2" thick; these are soldered together. Over
them are 41 iron rings, welded together and diminishing in thick-
ness from the junction with the breech to the muzzle, except the
three which form the muzzle moulding or swell. In addition, there
are 20 bands, called " rondelles." in two of which, the one at the
extreme end of the breech and the one at the end of the chase,
are holes for the levers used in unscrewing breech from the chase.
Curiously enough, the breech is not exactly in line with the chase,
inclining slightly to the left. — might possibly be a trifle trying for the
right-hand side of the chase after a few shots. 3ileg's weight is
36,080 pounds, but painters of that day represent Flemish women
of her class as distinctly heavy. The ball weighed 748 lbs., and the
powder charge was 88 lbs., between ^ and % the weight of the pro-
jectile. The range was about 3,000 yards, at least Meg claimed that,
though her efl:'ective range could not have been more than three hun-
dred yards. But, it is only fair to remember that in Nelson's day
six hundred yards was long fighting range.
The date of this huge, but rather useless engine of construction
— destruction. I fear, would be gross flattery — is rather uncertain.
The Flemings took it to the siege of Oudenarde, in 1452 ; a coat-of
arms I found near the vent is that of the father of Charles the
Bold, called " Philip the Good," because he was bad. He warred
from 1422 until 1467.
