4 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
America. That additional material may be brought in from time
to time bv transport is conceded, but the quantity thus added is com-
paratively unimportant. Equally the formation of a coal deposit by
transport is conceded but not the formation of a typical coal bed.
The Synopses of Opinions and Results.
Woodward^ explained all stratified rocks as deposits from the
original menstruum. During the time of the deluge, the solid
materials were wholly " dissolved." They were mingled with un-
consolidated materials such as sand, earth as well as animal and
vegetable matters and all were assumed and sustained by the water
in a confused mass. In time, these materials subsided " as near as
possibly could be expected in so great confusion, according to the
laws of gravity," those having the least gravity settling last of all
and covering the rest. '' The matter, subsiding thus, formed the
strata of stone, of marble, of cole, of earth and the rest." That
Woodward thought coal to be of vegetable origin cannot be deter-
mined with certainty : his remark that vegetable materials, being
of less specific gravit\- than mineral matter, would be precipitated
last of all and so form the outermost " stratum of the globe "
seems to suggest a contrary belief.
Whiston- took issue with Woodward and asserted that the
hypothesis presented by that author " includes things so strange,
wonderful and surprizing that nothing but the utmost Necessity,
and the perfect unaccountableness of the Phenomena without it,
ought to be esteemed sufificient to justify the Belief and Introduction
of it." At the time of the Xoachic deluge the earth passed through
the " Chaotick Atmosphere of a Comet " and thus acquired a great
amount of new material which mingled with the loose materials of
the globe. These subsided according to the laws of specific gravity,
giving the strata of stone, earth and coal ; in all about 105 feet thick.
Whether the coal is terrestrial or cometary in origin cannot be
ascertained by study of this work. The author's conclusions are
^ J. Woodward, " An Essay Toward a Natural History of the Earth and
Terrestrial Bodies," 2d cd.. London, 1702, pp. /2, 74, 77.
^W. Whiston, "A Now Theory of the Earth," 4th cd., London, 1725, pp.
^77, 278, .365, 419, 423, 425.
4
