166 DANA— NOTES ON CANNON. [April 20,
March 2, 1476, was fought the battle of Granson ; Charles of
Burgundy had 20,000 men and his splendid train of field-artillery ;
both these he proceeded to post as badly as he conveniently could.
The Swiss always attacked in solid squares, impervious to cavalry
but just the food for cannon to devour. Nine thousand men, and
absolute silence, save the word of command ; instant death to who-
ever faltered. A few shots took elTect on that solid human mass,
as it moved slowly towards the guns, each ball mowing down ten
or a dozen men ; then a dip in the ground protected them, and the
balls passed over their heads. Now was the time for Charles to
have concentrated his artillery fire on the square and rent it to pieces,
for his cavalry to drive off the field. Instead, time and again he
launched his magnificent gendarmerie against that bristling wall of
steel, those 16-foot spears held by sturdy mountaineers who knew
not fear. Every attack failed, panic followed, and that splendid
Burgundian artillery now adds interest to a score of Swiss museums.
Napoleon III. and General Fave consider the artillery of Charles
VIII. the beginning of that arm of the French service. Of course
guns of earlier days still lingered on, but the newer ones took on
almost the form they were to retain for three hundred years.
Guns changed but little from 1500 until the astounding develop-
ment of today. Drake fought the Spaniard with almost the same
guns that Nelson used at Trafalgar.
A better organization, and an improvement in tactics was made
by Charles of France, before his great Italian campaign of 1495. O"
the other hand he w^as opposed by very different foes from the
heroes who defeated Charles of Burgundy at Granson, Morat and
Nancy. One may safely say that France easily, almost pityingly
scattered before her powerful guns the very worst troops the world
contained at that time. Burgundy, on the contrary, had faced the
bravest and best fighters history tells of. Swiss tactics, the old
phalanx of Greece, steadily adhered to. soon became obsolete, and
the system of rushing the guns with such unwieldy squares, received
its death blow on the days of Marignano, 1515; when, cannon to
the right of them, cannon to the left of them, cannon in front of
them, volleyed and thundered. Two days of carnage failed to
shake the Swiss ; but when Francis I., massed his artillery, and the
