191 1-] ROSENGARTEN— MOREAU de SAINT MERV 169
introducing many of his fellow exiles, some of them soon elected to
the Society. Returning to France in 1799 and making use of his
distant relationship to Josephine, wife of Bonaparte, he was em-
ployed by Bonaparte in the preparation of a Maritime Code. Ap-
pointed to the Council of State in 1800, he was sent in 1801 to Parma
as Administrator of the Duchy of Parma, fulfilling his duties with
moderation, but showing a lack of firmness and energy that cost
him his position, and the enmity of Napoleon, who sent Junot to
replace him. and to end a threatened revolution by fire and sword.
When he lost his place in the Council of State, he told Napoleon
that his honesty need not be feared, for it was not contagious in that
body. The Empress Josephine helped him. and afterwards he be-
came historiographer of the Marine Department.
He sold to the French government, for a pension from Louis
XVTIL, his large collection of historical papers, documents, maps,
etc., often mentioned by recent historians. One unkind critic, who
worked at making a calendar of his papers, says he sold to the gov-
ernment not only the copies he had made, but many .originals which
he had taken from the files in his care. His printed works include
one in six volumes, on " The Laws and Constitutions of the French
Colonies in the West Indies from 1550 to 1785," Louis X\T.
ordered a copy to be placed in each French colony in America.
His "History of Saint Domingo" was translated by William
Cobbett, then living in Philadelphia, and his list of subscribers
included many notable Americans then in office and a large number
of French exiles in the L^nited States.
He translated and published a pamphlet on " The Prisons of
Philadelphia," by Rochefoucauld Liancourt, reprinted in Paris and
in Holland, and in one of Rochefoucauld Liancourt's bulky six vol-
umes of his " Travels in the United States." He had the honor of
an eloge by Fournier Pescay printed in Paris in 1819 and the bio-
graphical dictionaries give the dates of his various publications, of
the offices he held and make mention of his best service: the collec-
tion and preservation of an immense number of papers, maps, etc.,
relating to the French colonies in America, from their origin down
to the French Revolution. Calendars of parts of them have been
