191 1.] ROSENGARTEN— MOREAU de SAINT MERY. 171
Xo doubt the same industry and energy led him to make the
large collection known by his name, now in Paris, of original docu-
ments, copies, maps, etc., filling 287 volumes, bought by the French
government, and now in its great archives for the use of students of
colonial French history.
That St. Mery was well thought of in Philadelphia, during his
residence here is attested by the long list of subscribers to his book
on Saint Domingo, including Vice-President John Adams, Adet, the
French minister, Benjamin Franklin Bache, William Bingham.
Thomas Bradford. Samuel Breck, Rev. Dr. Collin, Alexander James
Dallas. P. S. Duponceau. Dupont. of Wilmington. Rufus King, Dr.
Logan. Xoailles, Timothy Pickering. Rochambeau, Talleyrand, John
\^aughan. A'olney. and many notable French exiles both in Phila-
delphia and elsewhere in the United States. Many of them were
elected members of the American Philosophical Society, and its
minutes show that its meetings were frequently attended by Talley-
rand, Rochefoucauld. A'olney. \'an Braam, and its library has many
books, the gifts of St. ^lery and his fellow exiles.
In a recent biography of Talleyrand we are told that when he
landed here in 1794, it was the finest city in the United States, full
of life, everywhere new buildings and work on them going on, the
streets full of elegant equipages, crowded with men of business,
workmen and sailors.
Chateaubriand speaks of the beauty of the Quakeresses. Every
stranger from Europe was welcomed by the wealthy merchants, —
life was very expensive, board $8 to $12 a week, without fire, light
or wine ; a negro servant cost $10 to $12 a month even with food and
washing. Emigres of all political creeds found a Xoah's ark of
refuge in Philadelphia. Talleyrand's arrival was quite an event;
he found old friends, old soldiers of Lafayette, fellow members of
the constituent assembly, among them Blacon. who had been deputy
from Dauphine and one of the intermediaries between Mirabeau and
the King. Hamilton gave him a warm welcome, but Fauchet. the
French ^Minister, prevented Washington from receiving him, and
Washington wrote to Lord Lansdowne, explaining why his letter of
introduction did not enable him to meet Tallevrand. However, he
