172 ROSENGARTEN— MOREAU de SAINT MERY. [April 20,
did not busy himself with poHtics. but at once began speculating in
land, then the great money-making business. The Scioto Company
was then all the vogue in Paris. The Holland Land Company was
buying right and left. LaForest, the French Consul General, had
bought an estate in Virginia in 1792. Noailles and Omer Talon in
association with Robert Morris had bought large tracts of land on
the Susquehanna for a colony of French royalist exiles, offering
land, which had cost them 15 sous an acre for 6 francs, as a refuge
from France.
Talleyrand urged Mme. deStael and his friends in Europe to
send money for investment, and he proposed buying land in Maine
from General Knox. He told Moreau de St. Mery that he had a
plan for settling in Louisiana, and was a frequent visitor at St.
Mery's book store, meeting there his old friends and fellow exiles, —
Fayettists, Girondists, Constituents, Jacobins, Royalists, one of them,
Count de More, says '* wandering like ghosts, full of regrets, lost
hopes and disappointment over their shattered political careers."
Mor.eau de St. Mery often spoke of the three days in 1789 when
as president of the Electoral College he was King of Paris. But
while the others were bewailing their hard fate, Moreau was busy
with his shop and his books, and Talleyrand wrote to Paris of
schemes for revictualling Paris, starved by the Reign of Terror,
crying for bread, by ships loaded with rice, grain and fish, named the
best merchants to deal with, and on the strength of his services,
secured the long-sought permission to return to France, and there
began that career of success which carried him safely through the
Republic, the Directory, the Empire, the Bourbon restoration and
into the reign of Louis Philippe.
Other Frenchmen had planned a great French colony, — twenty-
four men, mostly young noblemen, had joined in forwarding Joel
Barlow's scheme of a great settlement on the Ohio, — the Scioto Com-
pany was organized, to buy 24,000 acres, — d'Epresmenil, their leader,
lost his life on the guillotine; Marnesia, after a tour through America,
returned to France, and with Lally Tollendal, Mounier and Malouet,
lost touch with their colony in the midst of the great events in their
own countrv.
