191 1-] ROSENGARTEN— MOREAU de SAINT MERY. 173
One of Moreau de St. ]\Iery's friends and visitors, Rochefoucauld
Liancourt, wrote an account of the prisons of Philadelphia, which
was printed by Moreau in French and in English in Philadelphia,
(he was the translator), and later it was published in Paris, and in
Dutch in Holland, and later still was made part of one of his six
volumes describing his travels in the United States.
Rochefoucauld spent four years in the United States and describes
in great detail his experiences in the northwest and north, in Canada,
in Maine, in the south, and in New York, New Jersey and Penn-
sylvania.
Talleyrand from Philadelphia wrote to Mme. de Genlis. " Roche-
foucauld is here, making notes, asking information, writing, and
more a questioner than Sterne's curious traveller ; he wants to see
and know everything," in his eager search for the truth. He met
Knox, Sullivan, Jefferson, John Adams, Priestley, Livingston and
Kosciusko. He appealed to Washington to intercede for the release
of Lafayette from Olmutz. His inquiries included politics, consti-
tutions, judicial organizations, army, agriculture, industries, statis-
tics, charities, education. In Georgia he studied cotton and indigo
plantations ; he condemned slavery and argued for the education of
the negroes to prepare them for freedom ; in Niagara and the great
forests he foresaw the sources of future industries. He established
in France on his return societies like the Pennsylvania Prison So-
ciety, and took home much that he had learned in the L^nited States,
which he introduced in France, useful reforms that made him a real
philanthropist.
Another French settler in or near Philadelphia, Pierre Legaux,
was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society in
1787. A Counsellor of Parliament, a member of the Academy of
Arts and Sciences and of several foreign academies, employed in the
French West Indies, he came to Philadelphia about 1786 and made
his mark as a representative of French culture and scientific ability
and by his charm of manner. He bought land on the Schuylkill near
Conshohocken and planted vineyards. Washington and Mifflin and
other notable men visited them and approved his enterprise. Jeft'er-
son. Genet. Brissot, x\udubon, Wistar, were among those whose visits
