19".] ROSENGARTEN— MOREAU de SAINT MERY. 175
same perfect religious freedom that he saw practiced in the United
States and he also advised the sale of Louisiana to the United
States as a method of strengthening the ties between the two countries.
One would like to see the journal kept by Moreau de St. Mery
during his residence in Philadelphia. Did he in his palmy davs as
a member of the Council of State under the Empire or in the time
of his modest clerkship in the Marine Department, meet his old
visitors at his book store in Philadelphia, Louis Philippe, Talley-
rand and Rochefoucauld and A'olney and the other exiles now re-
stored to their old prosperity, and did they recall the meetings of the
American Philosophical Society and their attendance and share in
them? His large collection of historical papers, now rescued from
oblivion by calendars by and for the American students of historv,
perpetuates his name and memory and services, more than do the
volumes he wrote and printed and published at his book store at
Front and Walnut Streets.
The latest historian of the French Revolution, Aulard, frequently
mentions Moreau de St. Mery and his share in it. and refers to the
collection of historical documents. His name does not figure in Dr.
^Mitchell's capital novel, "The Red Cit}-," with its picturesque account
of the French exiles living here in the closing years of the eighteenth
century, nor in Kipling's picturesque story of Philadelphia at that
time. x\ll the more reason therefore for an attempt to recall the
memory of the French exiles who were members of the American
Philosophical Society and especially of that one who figures most
often and !;.:st usefully in its records of that time, ^loreau de St.
Mery.
Of the other French exiles during their residence in Philadelphia,
there is occasional mention, as for instance in Talle}Tand's " Me-
moirs." His two papers on the L'nited States and the relations
between France and this countr_\-, read before the French Institute,
were no doubt largely inspired by what he heard at the meetings of
the American Philosophical Society, and his share in the sale of
Louisiana to the Lmited States helped to secure that vast territory
for the future growth of the young republic and its ultimate great
development.
