176 ROSENGARTEN— MOREAU de SAINT MERY. [April 20.
In tlie report of M. E. Richard on the ]\Ioreau de St. Alery collec-
tion, printed in the supplement to Dr. Brymner's Report on Cana-
dian Archives for 1899 (Ottawa, 1901 ), he says it was stored in the
archives of the Marine at Versailles up to 1887, then removed to the
Ministere des Colonies, and stored in the attic of the Louvre. They
were then fearful of the great risk of fire, but were considering the
removal to other quarters.
In the reports of 1883-85 and 1887, mention is made of 287
volumes in the collection of Moreau de St. Mery, some forty of which
relate to Canada, others to Louisiana and the French islands of
America. These belonged formerly to the Colonial Archives of the
Marine ; of the collection headed Moreau de St. Mery seventeen
volumes contain description, etc., of the colonies, including a series of
memorials on Canada, 3 volumes are on the religious missions of
Canada, 12 volumes on Newfoundland, 12 volumes containing royal
instructions to governors, and decrees relating to Canada, 119
registers on Canada, Acadia, etc., 6 volumes on civil status of
o
Canada. 34 volumes on Louisbourg ; an analysis was made of 17
volumes of the Moreau de St. Mery collection for the Canadian
Archives.
It is open to the objection that " there is no strict order followed
in the compilation ; it contains but a limited number of documents,
or even extracts from documents. It is difiicult to understand the
dominant idea of this collection."
This collection is. nevertheless, most valuable, for it contains a
consiclerable number of important papers, both transcripts and origi-
nals, not to be found elsewhere.
On p. 5 of Richard's Report, in a footnote, it is said Moreau de St.
Mery, born in Martinique in 1750, studied law in Paris and practiced
in St. Domingo, where he became a member of the Superior Council
of the Island. Entrusted by Louis X\T. with the compiling of a
colonial code, he published in Paris " Les Lois et Constitutions des
Colonies Frangaises de TAmerique sous le Vent." Representing
Martinique in the Constituent Assembly, he drafted the report of the
Committee on the Colonies. Forced by political events to leave
France, he fled to Philadelphia, where he remained from 1793 to
