180 ROBINSON— THE NEW HISTORY. [April 22,
school is a series of dramas in each of which a few great men per-
form the leading parts and use the rest of mankind as their instru-
ments."^ The commonly accepted definition of history was long,
" a record of past events " and these, naturally, the most startling
and romantic and the best adapted for efifective literary presentation.
Dovibtless there was some serious effort to describe conditions and
institutions, since they formed the necessary setting for the events
and anecdotes ; sometimes they would even be assigned a place on
their own intrinsic merits ; but what may be called the epic ideal of
history prevailed until perhaps fifty or sixty years ago when, owing
to the influence of the modern scientific spirit, a very fundamental
revolution became apparent.
Now let us review, by way of preliminary, what were deemed
the advantages of the study of history of this older type. Lord
Bolingbroke in his " Letters on the Study of History," written about
1737, says: ''An application to any study that tends neither to make
us better men and better citizens, is at best but a specious and in-
genious sort of idleness; . . . and the knowledge we acquire by it is
a creditable kind of ignorance, nothing more. This creditable kind
of ignorance is, in my opinion, the whole benefit which the generality
of men, even the most learned, reap from the study of history : and
vet the study of history seems to me of all others the most proper to
train us up to private and public virtue." History, he quite prop-
erly says, is read by most people as a form of amusement, as they
might play at cards. Some devote themselves to history in order
to adorn their conversation with historical allusions, — and the argu-
ment is still current that one should know enough of the past to
understand literary references to' noteworthy events and persons.
The less imaginative scholar, Bolingbroke complains, satisfies him-
self with making fair copies of foul manuscripts and explaining hard
words for the benefit of others, or with constructing more or less
fantastic chronologies based upon very insecure data. Over against
these Bolingbroke places those who have perceived that history is
after all only "philosophy teaching by example." For "the exam-
' " The Present State of Historical Writing in America," reprinted from
the Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society for October, 1910;
Worcester, 1910, p. 18.
