I9II.] ROBINSON— THE NEW HISTORY. 181
pies which we find in history, improved by the hvely descriptions
and the just explanations or censures of historians/' will, he believes,
have a much better and more permanent effect than declamation, or
the " dry ethics of mere philosophy." ^Moreover, to summarize his
argument, we can by the study of history enjoy in a short time a
wide range of experience at the expense of other men and without
risk to ourselves. History enables us " to live with the men who
lived before us, and we inhabit countries that we never saw. Place
is enlarged, and time prolonged in this manner : so that the man
who applies himself early to the study of history may acquire in a
few years, and before he sets foot in the world, not only a more
extended knowledge of mankind but the experience of more cen-
turies than any of the patriarchs saw\" Our own personal expe-
rience is doubly defective ; we are born too late to see the beginning,
and we die too soon to see the end of many things. History sup-
plies in a large measure these defects.
There is of course little originality in Bolingbroke's plea for his-
tory's usefulness in makihg wiser and better men and citizens.
Polybios had seen in history a guide for statesmen and military
commanders ; and the hope that the conspicuous moral victories and
defeats of the past would serve to arouse virtue and discourage vice
has been urged by innumerable chroniclers as the main justification
of their enterprises. To-day, however, one would rarely find a
historical student who would venture to recommend statesmen,
warriors and moralists to place any confidence whatsoever in histor-
ical analogies and warnings, for the supposed analogies usually
prove illusive on inspection and the warnings, impertinent. Whether
or no Napoleon was ever able to make any practical use in his own
campaigns of the accounts he had read of those of Alexander and
Csesar, it is quite certain that Admiral Togo would have derived no
useful hints from Nelson's tactics at Alexandria or Trafalgar. Our
situation is so novel that it would seem as if political and military
precedents of even a century ago could have no possible value. As
for our present " anxious morality," as Maeterlinck calls it, it seems
equally clear that the sinful extravagances of Sardanapalus and
Nero, and the conspicuous public virtue of Aristides and the Horatii,
are alike impotent to promote it.
