191 1] ROBINSON— THE NEW HISTORY. 183
but \'oltaire devoted his " Philosophie de I'histoire " (1765) mainly
to discrediting religion as commonly accepted ; and instead of offer-
ing any particular theory of the past he satisfied himself with pick-
ing out what he calls Ics vcrites utiles. He addresses Madame du
Chatelet in the opening of his " Essai sur les ]Moeurs et I'esprit des
nations " as follows : \'ous ne cherchez dans cette immensite que ce
qui merite d'etre connu de vous ; I'esprit, les moeurs, les usages des
nations principales, appuyes des faits qu'il n'est pas permis d'ignorer.
Le but de ce travail n'est pas de savoir en quelle annee un prince
indigne d'etre connu succeda a un prince barbare chez une nation
grossiere. Si Ton pouvait avoir le malheur de mettre dans sa tete
la suite chronologique de toutes les dynasties, on ne saurait que des
mots. Autant il faut connaitre les grandes actions des souverains
qui ont rendu leurs peuples meilleurs et plus heureux, autant on
pent ignorer le vulgaire des rois, qui ne pourrait que charger la
memoire. . . . Dans tons ces recueils immenses qu'on ne peut em-
brasser, il faut se borner et choisir. C'est un vaste magazin ou vous
prendrez ce qui est a votre usage.'' Voltaire's reactions on the past
were naturally just what might have been expected from his attitude
toward his own times. He drew from " le vaste magazin " those
things that he needed for his great campaign, and in this he did well,
however uncritical his criticism may at times seem to a modern
historical student.
Herder in his little work, " Auch eine Philosophie der Geschichte
zur Bildung der Alenschheit. Beitrag zur vielen Beitragen des Jahr-
hunderts " (1774), condemns the general lightheartedness and super-
ficiality of A'oltaire and other contemporary writers who were, he
thought, vainly attempting to squeeze the story of the universe and
man into their puny philosophic categories. Ten years later he
wrote his larger work, " Ideen zur Geschichte der ]^Ienschheit," in
which he strove to give some ideal unity and order to the vast
historic process, beginning with a consideration of the place of the
earth among the other heavenly bodies, and of man's relations to the
vegetable and animal kingdoms. " H'," he says, " there be a god in
nature, there is in history too; for man is himself a part of creation,
and in his wildest extravagances and passions must obey laws not
^ "Avant propos."
