191 1.] ROBINSON— THE NEW HISTORY. 185
like all other forms of scientific research, should be pursued first and
foremost for its own sake. The facts must be verified and classified
by the expert, without regard to any possible bearing which his
discoveries may have upon our attitude toward life and the proper
way of conducting it. Attempts to draw lessons from the past have,
it is plausibly maintained, produced so reckless a disregard of scien-
tific accuracy and criticism, that the prudent, historian will coniine
himself to determining " how it really was "-—an absorbing and deli-
cate task which will tax his best powers.
Along with more exacting criticism and the repudiation of super-
natural considerations and explanations came a revulsion against the
older epic or dramatic interest in the past. The essential interest
and importance of the normal and homely elements in human
life became apparent. The scientific historian no longer dwells
by preference on the heroic, spectacular, and romantic episodes,
but strives to reconstruct past conditions. This last point is of such
importance that we must stop over it a moment. History is not
infrequently still defined as a record of past events and the public
still expect from the historian a story of the past. But the conscien-
tious historian has come to realize that he cannot aspire to be a good
story teller for the simple reason that if he tells no more than he
has good reasons for believing to be true his story is usually very
fragmentary and uncertain. Fiction and drama are perfectly free
to conceive and adjust detail so as to meet the demands of art, but
the historian should always be conscious of the rigid limitations
placed upon him. If he confines himself to an honest and critical
statement of a series of events as described in his sources it is usu-
ally too deficient in vivid authentic detail to make a presentable
story. The historian is coming to see that his task is essentially dif-
ferent from that of the man of letters. His place is among the scien-
tists. He is at liberty to use only his scientific imagination, which is
surely different from a literary imagination. It is his business to
make those contributions to our general understanding of mankind
in the past which his training in the investigation of the records of
past human events especially fit him to make. He esteems the
events he finds recorded not for their dramatic interest but for the
light that they cast on the normal and prevalent conditions which
