186 ROBINSON— THE NEW HISTORY. [April 22,
gave rise to them. It makes no difiference how dry a chronicle may
be if the occurrences that it reports can be brought into some assign-
able relation with the more or less permanent habits and environment
of a particular people or person. If it be the chief function of his-
tory to show how things come about — and something will be said of
this matter later — -then events become for the historian first and
foremost evidence of general conditions and changes affecting con-
siderable numbers of people. In this respect history is only fol-
lowing the example set by the older natural sciences — zoology dwells
on general principles not on exceptional and startling creatures or
on the lessons which their habits suggest for man. Mathematics
no longer lingers over the mystic qualities of numbers, nor does the
astronomer seek to read our personal fate in the positions of the
planets. Scientific truth has shown itself able to compete with fiction,
and there appears to be endless fascination for the mind in the con-
templation of what former ages would have regarded as the most
vulgar and tiresome commonplace.
In addition to the characteristics of modern history just enum-
erated two great historical discoveries of the latter half of the
nineteenth century have served still further to revolutionize our atti-
tude towards the past of mankind. Curiously enough neither of
these discoveries are due to historians. I refer to the well substan-
tiated fact tliat man is sprung from the lower animals, and secondly,
that he has in all probability been sojourning on the globe for sev-
eral hundreds of thousands of years. These discoveries have grave-
ly influenced all speculations in regard to the earlier history of our race
and have placed the so-called " historical period " in a new setting.
The historian no longer believes that he knows anything about man
from the very first but realizes that what is commonly called history
comprises only a very recent and very brief period in man's develop-
ment. All history is modern history from the standpoint of pre-
historic anthropology. Lastly, a group of anthropological, psycho-
logical and social sciences have made their appearance during the
past fifty years which are furnishing the historian with many new
notions about man and are disabusing his mind of many old misap-
prehensions in regard to races, religion, social organization, and the
psychology of progress. The older historians used such words as
