190 ROBINSON— THE NEW HISTORY. [April 22,
that much of what now passes for the elements of history meet the
needs of none.
It would take too long to attempt an analysis of the value of a
genetic treatment of the elements in our social life. It is perhaps
the greatest single discovery of modern times that we understand a
situation best through its history, and this discovery has revolution-
ized every branch of organic and social science. Indeed we ordi-
narily first get a fairly comprehensive notion of a given phenomenon
by tracing its origin and development, whether it be the human back-
bone, the order of St. ISenedict. the stock exchange, the Wagnerian
opera, or the doctrine of stare decisis. In many cases the knowledge
of the history of an institution not uncommonly gravely affects our
attitude toward it. The United States Senate looks different to
one familiar with the history of the bicameral system and to one
who is not. The Puritan sabbath could never have sustained a
critical historical examination. One's views of democracy, or of the
present laws of property, or of the prevailing economic organization,
can readily be deeply aff'ected by a study of the earlier conditions'
which lie back of present conditions. History has a disintegrating
effect on current prejudices which is as yet scarcely appreciated. It
makes both for understanding and for intellectual emancipation as
nothing else can.
(Jbviously history must be rewritten, or rather, innumerable cur-
rent issues must be given their neglected historic background. Our
present so-called histories do not ordinarily answer the questions we
would naturally and insistently put to them. When we contemplate
the strong demand that women are making for the right to vote, we
ask ourselves how did the men win the vote? The historians we
consult have scarcely asked themselves that question and so do not
answer it. W'e ask how did our courts come to control legislation in
the exceptional and extraordinary manner they do? We look in
vain in most histories for a reply. No one questions the inalienable
right of the historian to interest himself in any phase of the past
that he chooses. It is only to be wished that a greater number of
historians had greater skill in hitting upon those phases of the past
which serve us best in understanding the most vital problems of the
present.
Columbia University.
