8 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
sented with some pieces of coal that were got near the top of Whernside
and the other mountains, that seemed more like dry clods of peat moss than
coal, though distinguishable enough to belong to the latter class. The
principal difference in their composition is that coals abound with the vitri-
olic, and peat moss with the vegetable acid. The vitriolic acid is diffused
through every subterranean stratum ; hence if a quantity of earth should be
superinduced above a stratum of peatmoss, the vitriolic acid that would
ouse through, must in time change its nature and turn it into coal : the
deeper it lay below the surface of the ground, the more it would be im-
pregnated with this fossil acid, and consequently be the more inflammable.
If a stratum should lie near the top of a mountain, there is the less chance
that it should be well fed.
Williams'' was an unedticated man btit an admirable observer,
who stnnmarized in his vohtmes the results of studies in much of
Great Britam. He was a firm believer in the vegetable origin of
coal and equally in the wide extent of the Noachic deluge. Think-
ing that he could identify in some coals the wood of modern species,
he suggested that, prior to the deluge, only a small part of the globe
was inhabited and that most of it was covered with tall trees. Those
trees, swept off by the deluge, were carried by currents and deposited
in limited areas. But this hypothesis does not satisfy all the condi-
tions, for he had found coals which closely resembled peat. He
says, " I will here beg leave to propose another probable source of
coal. I believe I may call it a real one, and that is the antediluvian
peat bog," and this is followed by a discussion of peat bogs, their
structure and growth.
Williams argues strenuously against any hypothesis that the ma-
terials of the strata were formed by settling of particles from a
heterogeneous mass in accordance with gravity, for the order of the
beds is evidence to the contrary. At the same time, he finds in
the structure of coal beds evidence that most of the beds were
formed of transported timber. " I am of opinion that the ante-
diluvian timber floated upon the chaos or waters of the deluge, . . .
and that during the height of the deluge and the time in which the
greatest part of the strata were forming, the timber was preparing
and fitted for being deposited in strata of coal."
° J. Williams, "The Natural History of the Mineral Kingdom," Edin-
burgh, 2d ed., 1810, Vol. I, pp. 510, 522-525. The first edition was in 1789.
8
