192 HINRICHS— ATOMIC WEIGHT OF VANADIUM. [April 21,
which, as a good Scandinavian, he named vanadin after \"anadiis,
a designation of Freya, the greatest Goddess in \'alhalla.
Sefstrom had promptly informed his teacher of the discovery
and soon after brought his entire stock of the new element to
Berzelius, requesting him to continue the research for which his
own industrial work and the professorial duties at the Fahlun
JVIontan-School left him neither the leisure nor the facilities. For
a short time Sefstrom worked with Berzelius on the new element in
that famous " Kitchen Laboratory " where Berzelius alone com-
pleted the splendid work of which he published a summary on pp.
99-110 of the "Annual Report" which he presented to the Swedish
Academy of Sciences on March 31, 1831 — exactly eighty years ago.
For almost forty years the element vanadin of Sefstrom and
Berzelius remained undecomposed, but the striking isomorphism
of the mineral vanadinite with the remarkable isomorphic group of
apatite and pyromorphite presented the anomalous condition of the
isomorphism of the element vanadin of Berzelius with the group
PO of apatite and pyromorphite. This anomaly invited further
attempts of the reduction of vanadin in which Roscoe was success-
ful, 1867, proving vanadin to be really the oxide A'aO, in which Va
is the symbol of the present element vanadium of the atomic weight
51. This fully explains the isomorphism of vanadinite containing
the oxide VaO, with pyromorphite, containing the corresponding
oxide PO.
In this first research of Berzelius on vanadium, the old master
already determined the atomic weight of the new element ; for
his value 67 for what we now know to have been VaO gives Va 51.
He devised and used five distinct chemical methods for this atomic
weight determination to which npt one new method has been added
in the eighty years elapsed since that work was done by the great
chemist in his kitchen laboratory. It is a well-authenticated historic
fact, Berzelius not only made atomic weight determinations for
vanadium, but they were as accurate as those made forty years
later by Roscoe, while some were as precise as corresponding
determinations made eighty years later by Prandtl ; besides, not only
Roscoe and Prandtl, but all chemists have done this work bv means
