191 1.] HINRICHS— ATOMIC WEIGHT OF VANADIUM. 193
of the methods devised by BerzeHus which he practiced in his
laboratory in 1831.
It is therefore with great astonishment that I read in the first
edition of the " Recalculation " of F. W. Clarke : " Roscoe's determi-
nation of the atomic weight of vanadium was the first to have any
scientific value. The results obtained by BerzeHus . . . were
unquestionably too high, the error being probably due to the presence
of phosphoric acid in the vanadic acid employed."
The same erroneous statement is repeated identically at the
opening of the chapter on vanadium in the succeeding two editions
of the work as may be seen by comparing: p. 183. edition 1882; p.
211, edition 1897. and p. 305. edition 1910.
The only new method, Cjuite recently applied to the determination
of the atomic weight of vanadium, is that of Edgar F. Smith. ^
This admirable method strictly conforms to the Berzelian advice
" to chose such chemical methods for atomic weight determinations
that the final result shall depend as little as possible on the operator's
skill in manipulation."' In my summary of the work of one hundred
years on the determination of the atomic weight of hydrogen- I
have given this great rule of Berzelius. in his own handwriting, from
his " Sjelfbiografiska Anteckningar," published by the Kgl. Svenska
Vetenskapsakademien, 1901, p. 41.
This rule requires to select such chemical reactions in which the
physical and chemical characters of the substances weighed are so
definitely fixed that the unavoidable errors of man and his instru-
ments become negligible quantities. Such is the reaction no. 311
above referred to. Hence the work done by AIcAdam in the labora-
tory and under the direction of Edgar F. Smith has furnished the
highest direct chemical approximation obtainable to the absolute
scientific truth that \'a is 51 exactly. This will appear, we think,
from a careful examination of all the results actually obtained dur-
ing the eighty years from 1831 to 191 1 as plotted in our two dia-
grams no. 730 and no. 731 published with this paper.
The above reference to the presence of phosphoric acid in the
' See Journal Amer. Chcm. Society. 1910, p. 1603. in the December number.
■ In the Revue Generale dc Chimie. 1910, Nos. 22 and 24.
