194 HINRICHS— ATOMIC WEIGHT OF VANADIUM. [April 2:.
vanadic acid used by Berzelius reminds us of the homely but sound
scriptural advice habitually given by Berzelius to his disciples : " do
not strain at a gnat while swallowing camels." The phosphoric acid
in the vanadic acid used by Berzelius was detected by Roscoe in the
sample which Berzelius had presented to Faraday ; but the molybdic
reagent necessary for the detection was not known to chemistry in
the year 183 1 when Berzelius did his work on vanadium.
As a matter of fact, Berzelius did not see this gnat; but his
work shows that he did avoid some of the camels that stalk about
the laboratories and which were deglutinated unconsciously forty
and eighty years after Berzelius failed to strain that gnat. The
error-shares due to the oxygen are the fattest and most numerous
of these camels, up to the present day.
Our Method of Reduction.
In order to solve the riddle of the conflicting experimental data
obtained in the chemical laboratories of the world during an entire
century of painstaking work, we have, especially in the last quarter
century, carried on special researches on the proper mathematical
reduction of this kind of laboratory work.
The final results of this extended research are briefly sum-
marized in five tables of wdiich two only have thus far been pub-
lished. Our work itself has been published in the following books
and special papers :
" The True Atomic Weights," St. Louis, 1894, xvi -\- 256 pp.,
8vo, with 7 plates and many illustrations. Dedicated to Berthelot.
"The Absolute Atomic Weights." St. Louis, 1901, xvi -|- 304 pp.,
8vo, with portrait of Berzelius and three plates,
" The Proximate Constituents of the Chemical Elements," St.
Louis, 1904, with 7 portraits, many plates, 112 pp. text, 8vo. This
is an inductive treatise of the subject.
The " Cinquantenaire," 1910, gives some historical data, copies
of older papers, letters in fac-simile and " Fragments inedits " with
fine diagrams ; 66 pp., 4to, with plates and portraits.
" Notes " published in the Coinptcs Rcndiis of the Academy of
Sciences of Paris from 1873 to the present, almost sixty in number.
