191 1.] HIXRICHS— ATOMIC WEIGHT OF VANADIUM. 195
forming a volume of over 200 pp. 4to. The first, and in fact the
greater number of the " Xotes," were presented by Berthelot ; others
were presented by Messrs. Gautier, Lemoine, Haller, Gernez, and
other academicians.
In the Monitcur Sciciitifiquc. from 1906 to 1909 more than a
dozen longer articles have appeared with many diagrams. The
first two tables above referred to are found in the November num-
ber for 1901. with discussions, pp. 731—744.
The papers were originally written in four languages : Danish,
German, English and French. To these papers the reader may be
referred by the Cinquantenaire and the list in the Prox. Constit.
The results obtained, being in conflict with the dominant chemical
school, have not been widely circulated except as adopted children.
For these reasons it is necessary here to give enough of the
details of the finally worked out practical method of reduction to
enable the reader to repeat all the calculations required, so that he
can verify the results given.
It will then be seen that the final method is quite simple ; the
difficulty was to get this method.
Let a represent the absolute atomic z^right of any chemical ele-
ment, that is the whole or round number (h or even ^) which the
experiments indicate to be near the true atomic zveight A, which
exactly to determine is the object of the reduction. The unit
adopted is exactly yV of carbon-diamond which is practically iden-
tical with iV of that of oxygen.'
The departure of the true atomic weight from the absolute
atomic weight we designate by the Greek letter epsilon (e) ; that is:
A^a-\-e. This departure, as a matter of fact, is found to be a
small fraction of the unit ; we invariably express it in thousandths
of that unit.
This departure — in units of the third decimal — is really our new
variable, the quantity to be determined. This apparently insignifi-
cant matter of form is really of the greatest importance. For this
new variable all products and powers become negligible quantities
^Comptes Rendus, 117, p. 1075, 1893.
PROC. AMER. PH[L. SOC. , L, I99 M, PRINTED JUNE 26, I9II.
