196 HINRICHS— ATOMIC WEIGHT OF VANADIUM. [Apm 21,
in our necessary calculati(3ns, because the departures are small
quantities ; hence, all calculations, even involving the most complex
mathematical functions, are reduced to the simple rule of three and
carried out by proportional parts. The importance will soon be
recognized by the practice of the method.
The actual laboratory z^'ork consists essentially in the deter-
mination of tii'o weights which we denote by p and q and which rep-
resent chemically pure compounds of the formula P and respec-
tively. The necessary condition is that the weight p has been com-
pletely changed into q according to the exact formulae P and Q by
means of a suitable chcuiical reaction. Of such reactions we have
tabulated and examined over three hundred that have been actually
used for atomic weight determinations. We designate each such
reaction by a number for ready reference. This number is simply
marking their place in our table above referred to ; it is arbitrary
but a practical necessity. We have already above referred to the
remarkable chemical reaction, recently applied in the Harrison Labo-
ratory of the University of Pennsylvania as reaction no. 311.
Substituting the absolute atomic weights a for the chemical sym-
bols in the formulae of the two compounds P and 0, we can readily
calculate the value of the quotient P/Q which we call the atomic
ratio R and calculate the same to five decimals, the limit of precision
today. On the following pages, giving the data for the chemical
reactions that have been used for the determination of the atomic
weight of vanadium there will be found examples of these and of
all other processes, to which we request the reader to turn as new
operations are defined.
On the other hand, the weights actually taken in the laboratory
and designated by the letters p and q will give the analytical ratio r
which w^e calculate also to five decimal places. The analytical ratios
determined by the different experiments with the same two com-
pounds P and will give hardly any identical values of r ; we notice
their extreme values, that is the maximum and the minimum in any
given series of determinations made in the same manner with the
identical material. The differance between the greatest and the
least value of the analytical ratios of a series is the range of that
series. This characterizes the concordance of the different deter-
