202 HINRICHS— ATO^IIC WEIGHT OF VANADIUM. [April 21,
accentuated, that large constant and systematic errors may exist
though the value found for the probable error of the mean is in-
significant. In Clarke's third edition (1910, pp. 93-98) the probable
error of the mean amounts to only one unit in the fifth decimal of
the analytical ratio while the constant error of that ratio amounts to
120 such units, according to the famous analyses of Stas and Baxter.
To detect the constant and systematic errors we have always
plotted the results of the individual experimental determinations
as ordinates to the weight taken as abscissse. In these diagrams
the scale selected for the atomic weights or the ratios must be very
great while that for the weight taken has to be small. In my diagram
representing in this manner all the atomic weight determinations of
hydrogen made in a century (Rcziic gen. dc Chiiiiie, 1910, p. 380)
the unit of atomic weights is 30 meters (about 100 feet) while a
decagram of water produced is represented by three centimeters
(or a little over one inch).
To permit this scorch for the really iniportant constant and sys-
tematic errors, we give the weight taken (to the decigram) in all our
tables. For a series of determinations, we give the total weight
taken for all the determinations of the series, and the mean weight
taken for each determination — which is obtained from the total by
dividing this latter by the number of determinations made.
Table II. thus shows that 50 determinations have actually been
made for the determination of the atomic weight of vanadium on
4 grams each of the substance taken, not counting the seven pre-
liminary determinations on i gram of matter each.
It is also seen at a glance that by reaction 98 the work of Roscoe
ought to be the most reliable, while for 270 the work of Prandtl
should be the best and that the work done by one chemist for 311
has been carried out under equally as favorable condition in regard
to the weight operated upon.
By means of the reference letter specified in the last column the
corresponding line on the diagrams can be instantly identified. We
may here already remark, that the length of this line, extending to
the right or to the left from the vertical in the middle, marks the
magnitude of the departures for the elements as indicated by the
chemical symbol added.
