I9II.] STEVEXSOX— FORMATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 9
Darwin^'' adhered to the doctrine of formation in situ but with
modifications. " In other circumstances, probably where less mois-
ture has prevailed, morasses seem to have undergone a fermenta-
tion, as other vegetable matter; new hay is liable to do so from the
great quantity of sugar it contains. From the great heat thus
produced in the lower part of the morass, the phlogistic part, or
oil or asphaltum. becomes distilled and. rising into higher strata,
condensed, forming coal beds of greater or less purity, according to
their greater or less quantity of inflammable matter; at the same
time the clay beds become poorer or less so as the phlogistic part is
more or less completely exhaled from them."
Patrin,^^ cited by Parkinson, thought coal and the interposed
beds of rock due to alternating ejection of bituminous and earthy
materials by submarine volcanoes. In another work cited by
Pinkerton he describes the characteristics of coal beds, that they
have a boat-like form and that they are never single, there being
many in each coal field. He thinks the deposit must have been
made in still water. The occurrence of plant impressions in the
roof shales has led several naturalists to think that coal is composed
of vegetable remains. But Patrin thinks that this opinion presents
great difficulties. The naturalist le Blond found beds of coal near
Bogota at 13,200 feet above the sea. When the ocean reached that
height there would be islands ; and it cannot be seen how the small
quantity of vegetables, which had been brought accidentally from
those mountains, could have formed the thinnest bed of coal or
even of peat.
Hutton's^- opinions appeared in final form in 1795. They are
not always stated clearly but the confusion may not be that of the
author's mind : it may be only apparent and due to the somewhat
involved method of presenting the case. The carbon of coal is evi-
dently of organic origin. Bituminous coal and anthracite are parts
^° E. Darwin, " Botanical Garden,"' Add. X'otes. XVIL, 1791. Cited by
J. Parkinson ; not seen by the writer.
"Patrin, Art. Houille. "Diet, d'hist. Xaturelle," cited by Parkinson;
" Mineralogie, V., p. 317. Cited by J. Pinkerton in " Petrology," pp. 567, 568.
'^J. Hutton, "Theory of the Earth With Proofs and Illustrations,"
Edinburg, 1795, Vol. I., pp. 565, 566, 570, 575-581, 586.
9
