212 HINRICHS— ATOMIC WEIGHT OF VANADIUM. [April 21,
The chemist whose work is represented is indicated by the special
mark used to designate the point, as shown in the explanation of
signs on the diagram.
The small figure near the vanadium sign on the vertical indicates
the number of determinations made represented in that line.
The line itself is marked by a letter, used in the tables for the
purpose of ready identification.
For each reaction, the geometrical place (or locus) is a straight
line passing through the center or the origin ; the angle under which
it cuts the axes is determined by the ratio of the variation of the
element concerned and that of vanadium. These lines can therefore
be drawn before any laboratory work is done, depending entirely on
the chemical formulas of the compounds taken and obtained in the
reaction used.
For further particulars, some of which are very interesting as
well as useful, we may refer to page 60 of our " Cinquantenaire,"
where also a remarkable criterion is given, permitting to detect any
error in the assumed absolute atomic weight. The example there
taken is copper.
Our two figures here inserted bring into clearest possible view^ the
fundamental fact that all these departures are co-related ; that the
experimental error is not thrown on the vanadium for which the
atomic weight is sought, but is distributed ex-aec|uo to all elements
partaking in the reaction, as we have shown in formulae, but which
is here presented to the eye directly.
We do not recognize or find the slightest pretext for the assump-
tion that any one element is immaculate and cannot be conceived to
partake in any error of whatever cause or origin ; but we have found
that all elements in a chemical reaction are afl:'ected by the same
cause of error according to the ties that bind them and which we
have read in the chemical formula and in the mathematical relations
first studied by Lagrange under the name of the \'ariation of arbi-
trary constants. ^-
We know that it is absurd to suppose that oxygen is always found
to be 16, absolutely unaffected by any error, physical or chemical, in
practice ; that next some other atomic weight of some other element
""True Atomic Weights," 1894, p. 158.
