191 1.] HINRICHS— ATOMIC WEIGHT OF VANADIUM. 213
can be determined and that this value also will remain unaffected in
all reactions ; and so forth. That errors rapidly accumulate in such
an irrational process, we have shown as far back as 1893, almost
twenty years ago. That paper was presented by Berthelot to the
Academy of Sciences of Paris and published in its Co/n/'/^^i?(';;rf»^.^^
After having completed a thorough examination of all the atomic
weight determinations made, we have, by a sort of crucial test, dem-
onstrated that the present value Ag 107.88, implying a departure of
120 thousandths, is impossible; that O 16 requires Ag 108 exactly,
according to all determinations made during an entire century in all
the laboratories of the world."
It is this same principle that is demonstrated by the diagrams
here printed and this demonstration is made visible to the eye : It is
not vanadium alone that causes the error affecting the laboratory
work, but all elements in the reaction contribute to the error recog-
nized in the final result of the analytical work.
Instead of the common notion that the work of the different
chemists conflicts in the different values they have presented as the
results of their determination of the atomic weight of vanadium our
figures here inserted show to the eye that all determinations made
agree in the common result of J'a fji exactly. While no experimental
work of any kind,' done by man, with instruments and by chemical
reactions, all of which are but approximations to a mathematical
perfection, can be expected to give perfectly exact results, we have
proved that the final error cannot be ascribed to vanadium alone, as
continues to be done by the dominant school, but that on the contrary,
all the elements present in a reaction contribute, each one its share,
to the Excess or deficiency resulting. It was therefore necessary to
find the laws regulating this participation of the different elements
in the errors of the reactions and of the entire experimental work.
Having discovered these laws, we have applied them here, to the
atomic weight determinations made for vanadium and present in the
two graphics (Figs, i and 2 ) the final results thus obtained.
These figures show plainly that all the departures from the abso-
^=T. 116, p. 695.
''* See paper read December 2, 1910, before the American Philosophical
Society; Proceedings, 1910, pp. 359-363.
