214 HINRICHS— ATOMIC WEIGHT OF VANADIUM. [April 21,
lute values are converging to zero along each of the lines of work
pursued in the eighty years by the different chemists ; there is but one
insignificant exception, which we shall consider, when we take up
the recent work of Prandtl.
Our Figs. I and 2 proclaim that the atomic weight of vanadium
is exactly 51 in all these determinations, just as sure as oxygen has
the atomic weight 16 exactly and silver 108 exactly, chlorine 35^
exactly, sodium 23 exactly ; in fact, all the elements have as atomic
weights exactly the absolute values given in our publications of the
last twenty years.
Even the very first determinations made by Berzelius, with only
a fraction of a gramme of material at service, and only in one single
determination, by the reactions designated (a), (b) and (c), do
confirm the value Va 51 ; for the deviation noted for \'a affects all
the other elements present as well, and therefore it would be absurd
to suppose that the atomic weight of vanadium could be obtained
from a reaction which fails to give an exact determination for the
other elements present. Thus reaction (c) represented by line D in
Fig. I, gives by the single determination made by Berzelius on 8
decigrams of the rather complex hydrated vanadium sulphate, a
departure of 400 thousandths from 51 for the atomic w^eight of
vanadium ; but the same determination gave the atomic weight of
oxvgen 310 thousandths low as marked on the figure; it also gave
the atomic weight of sulphur 470 thousandths low as indicated near
the edge of the diagram and by the arrowpoint : for the real circular
mark falls far beyond the limit of the diagram.
Is it so hard to understand that a reaction that fails to give pre-
cise determinations for all the elements it involves cannot necessarily
be expected to furnish a value of precision for vanadium? Is it not
about time for each individual chemist to begin to consider these
simple facts for himself, as was the practice in former days?
It would be interesting to trace the gradual approach to the center
where all departures are zero, as exemplified in the actual work of
the successive chemists. This will be found to hold good for all,
with the single exception alread\' mentioned. We will only point
to a few special instances, expecting the reader to go over the entire
ground bv himself.
