10 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April;.!.
of a series, the latter having been derived from the former by the
influence of heat, which itself was the agent by which vegetable
matter was converted into coal. Fuliginous matter is given off
when vegetable materials are burned and it is just what is needed
to compose coal beds. There are many charred coal beds, which
have lost their volatile or fuliginous matter through subterranean
heat. The volatile matter, diffused through the water, aided in
formation of the strata, while smoke from burning bodies on the
land found its way to the sea where it settled to the bottom. But
this was not the only source. The rivers of Scotland carry brown
water from the bogs ; there must be some agency causing precipita-
tion of this browMi material, otherwise the sea would be impregnated
with oily substance. The constant perishing of plants and animals
would give a supply of oily or bituminous matter to the ocean, which
would become pure coal unless earthy stuffs be in the water, which
would render the coal impure. If the mixture be perfect and the
subsidence uniform, a homogeneous substance resembling cannel
would be formed.
Therefore, witli regard to the composition of mineral coal, the theory
is this, that inflammable vegetable and mineral remains, in a subtilized state,
had subsided in the sea, being mixed more or less with argillaceous, calcare-
ous and earthy substances in an impalpable state. Now the chymical analysis
of fossil coal justifies this theory: for in the distillation of the inflammable
or oily coal, we procure volatile alkali, as might naturally be expected.
Kirwan,^"' indignant at Hutton's generally iconoclastic views,
entered the lists evidently determined to annihilate the new doc-
trines as well as their author. He rejects the hypothesis that pit coal
is merely earth or stone impregnated with petrol or asphalt, for Kil-
kenny coal contains neither petrol nor any other bitumen. He
recognizes the vegetable origin of wood coal but maintains that it
is chemically different from mineral coal, so different as to show
that the latter was not derived from wood deposited in or out
of the sea. As further arguments, he notes features in the mode
of occurrence. Beds of mineral coal are uniform in thickness within
great areas, beds of wood coal are not ; beds of mineral coal show
parallelism, which is unknown in wood coal beds ; wood coal mines
" R. Kirwan, "Geological Essays," London, 1799, pp. 315-349.
10
