191 1.] ABBOT— SOLAR CONSTANT OF RADIATION. 239
zenith distance.' Solar-constant determinations require no higher
values of zenith distance than these to be considered.
Radau and Langley proved the necessity of confining the atmo-
spheric use of Bouguer's formula to approximately monochromatic
rays. In general, for a reason which Lord Rayleigh has shown, the
transmission of the atmosphere increases gradually with increasing
wave-lengths. Thus in the violet the transmission for a vertical ray
to sea level may be 50 per cent., and for a deep red ray 80 per cent.
But besides this gradual change there are also spectral regions of
almost complete absorption by atmospheric oxygen, and by water-
vapor, so that in these regions the transmission approaches zero.
If we should disregard these differences, and determine the con-
stants of the exponential formula above, by pyrheliometric measure-
ments alone at dift'erent solar zenith distances, our result E^ for
the intensity outside the atmosphere must necessarily be too small.*
Langley was the first to act upon this, and 'to devise apparatus
and methods for measuring the energy and the atmospheric trans-
mission at all parts of the spectrum. For this purpose he invented
the bolometer about 1880, and automatic registration of its indica-
tions about 1890. As we now use it the bolometer comprises two
similar tapes of platinum, each about i cm. long, o.oi cm. wide and
o.ooi cm. thick. These are coated with lamp-black by smoking over
a camphor flame. They lie parallel to the spectrum lines, and
about 0.8 cm. apart. One tape may be shined upon by the rays,
the other can not. Hence the heat absorbed from a narrow region
of spectrum, usually about twice the extent comprised between the
D lines, raises the temperature of the exposed tape with reference to
the other. The two tapes and two resistance coils are combined to
form a Wheatstone's bridge, and the rise of temperature produced
as above stated deflects a sensitive galvanometer. The galvanometer
needle reflects a tiny spot of light on a photographic plate, which
moves vertically as driven by clock work. The same clock work
moves the spectrum slowly over the bolometer tape. In this way
may be produced in from eight to twelve minutes, according to the
spectroscopic outfit employed, a holograph, or spectrum energy
' Loc. cit., p. 59.
* Loc. cit.. p. 16.
