1911.] ABBOT— SOLAR CONSTANT OF RADL\TION. 241
about three hours of observation, under a cloudless and uniformly
clear sky. and about three days of computing.
We began to make solar-constant observations in Washington
at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, in October, 1902,
and continued them there whenever a favorable opportunity was
presented, until !May, 1907. In all this time we made only 44
tolerably satisfactory determinations at W'ashington, for cloudless
days were rare, and many days that promised fairly proved disap-
pointing, by reason of the appearance of smoke, haze or clouds.
Four important results came from the W^ashington observations.
First, no apparently good determinations yielded solar-constant
values above 2.38 of our then provisionally adopted scale of calories,
or 2.25 true calories. Second, the mean value in the true calories
from 44 determinations was 1.960. Third, the transmission of the
atmosphere was determined on many days, and for many wave-
lengths.^^ Fourth, a strong probability was raised by the results of
observations of 1903 that the sun is a variable star.^- This variation
seemed to reach 10 per cent, in its extreme range, but no tendency
towards a regular period was then found for it. A dependent
variation in terrestrial temperatures seemed indicated.
Primarily in order to make spectro-bolometric determinations
of the solar constant, suitable to test the supposed variability of the
sun, an expedition under my charge went out to ]\Iount Wilson in
1905, by invitation of Director Hale of the ]Mount W^ilson Solar
Observatory. The site proved excellent for the purpose, on account
of its considerable altitude, cloudless sky and freedom from wind.
Much aid and comfort was furnished by Director Hale and his
staff. The expedition was repeated in 1906, 1908, 1909 and 19 10.
We now occupy a cement observing shelter and living quarters there,
on ground leased from the Solar Observatory. Our observations
have generally occupied the six months, May 15 to November 15,
and in the last years we have made practically daily determinations
of the solar constant of radiation during this interval.
" Astronomers have not yet very generally availed themselves of the
accurate coefficients of atmospheric transmission obtained in our researches
for all parts of the spectrum, and from Washington, Mount Whitney and
Mount Wilson.
'^ See S. P. Langley, Astrophysical Journal, Vol. 19, p. 305, 1904.
