I9II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 11
have sudden elevations or depressions, not found in those of
mineral coal ; slips or dikes abound in true coal but do not occur
in wood coal : wood coal is frequently, genuine coal never found
in plains. Mineral coal is of distinctly inorganic origin.
Aly opinion, therefore, is that coal mines or strata of coal, as well as
the mountains or hills in which they are found, owe their origin to the
disintegration and decomposition of primeval mountains, either now totally
destroyed, or whose height and bulk, in consequence of such disintegration,
are now considerably lessened. And that these rocks, anciently destroyed,
contained most probably a far larger proportion of carbon and petrol than
those of the same denomination now contain, since their disintegration took
place at so early a period.
The seams of coal and their attendant strata must have resulted
from the equable diffusion of the disintegrated particles of the
primitive mountains carried down by the " gentle trickling of the
numerous rills " and more widely dift'used by more copious streams.
The important sources of material for the coal beds were granite
and trap, as those rocks contain natural carbon and hornblende, the
latter mineral being an extremely important source. Kirwan's argu-
ments are extremely ingenious and he finds no difficulty in explain-
ing all known phenomena by means of his " supposition."
Playfair^* attacked Kirwan's doctrine and defended that of
Hutton. He regarded Kirwan's suggestions as deserving only
ridicule. He showed that both wood and mineral coal occitr in the
same bed and that most of Kirwan's postulates were not in accord
with fact. The quantity of hornblende and silicious schist to be
decomposed in order to yield the coal would be vastly greater than
Kirwan had supposed ; Playfair suggested that it would have been
better to imagine that the diamond existed so abundantly in the
primeval mountains as to constittite great rocks. A single ridge
might suffice to give material for coal beds of all the surrounding
plains. He asserted that Kirwan's hypothesis trespasses on every
principle of common sense.
\'oigt^^ strenuously opposed v. Beroldingen's hypothesis that coal
"J- Playfair, "Illustrations of the Huttonian Theory of the Earth,"
Edinburgh, 1802, pp. 148-160.
^'J. C. W. Voigt, " Versuch einer Geschichte der Steinkohlen, der
Braunkohlen und des Torfes," Weimar, 1802, pp. 42-46.
11
