191 1.] BARNARD— SELF-LUMIXOUS NIGHT HAZE. 249
aurora was also present, but I have tried to confine the accounts to
what I have called, and believe to be, self-luminous haze. They
were not seen previous to June /, 1910.
The Observations.
1910, June jd 13 h om. These diffused luminous masses were
seen in dift'erent parts of the sky. They were specially noticeable
near the southern horizon where the appearance was that of a definite
whitish light stretching along above the horizon for a considerable
distance. Long bands of this matter were parallel with the southern
horizon and above Antares. In the east a long strip 3° or 4° wide
stretched from a Pegasi to a Andromedae and beyond. This moved
slowly eastward. At I3h 30m another was passing through the bowl
of the great '" dipper " in the northwest with a slow easterly motion.
A very broad one was situated about i^°-2o° from the zenith to the
west. They were about as bright as the Milky \Va}' in Cygnus. I
waited until near sunrise, and could then see a long mass of ordinary
haze, reddish with sunlight, occupying the position of one of the
strips that was seen near the bowl of the " dipper," which had been
visible as a luminous mass until the dawn had killed it out. There
were other strips and masses of haze at different points in the sky
when the sun ro>e. I think it was these streaks and patches of dif-
fused haze that were luminous during the night. The}- appeared as
ordinary haze clouds in daylight. During the entire night there had
been no ordinary trace of aurora.
June 9. Though they were looked for several times none was
seen until about loh 30m or iih om. At iih 25m a long broad
hazy streak, as bright as the !Milky Way in Cassiopeise was seen
in the northwest. The lower end was in the " sickle "' of Leo near
the horizon. Its upper end was 15° below the polar star. From
a sketch at iih 25m the following points were taken which were
involved in the hazy strip :
■y. loh 5m 8 -j- 2I^5,
ot 9 5 8 + 49.
It extended beyond this latter point for quite a distance — roughly
to about
a /h om 8 + 67°.
