250 BARNARD— SELF-LUMINOUS NIGHT HAZE. [April 21,
The stars were visible through it where it passed over them. The
motion was slowly to the northwest among the stars. Its width
was 5°. At I2h om a similar band passed over the " dipper " parallel
to the first one, evidently moving in the same direction. The first
one at this time had either disappeared or was too near the horizon
to be seen. At midnight I could read the time by my watch with
only the illumination from the sky, which was milky and whitish
or luminous.
June lod loh 45m. A long strip passed through Polaris and 5°
below the bowl of the " dipper." Its motion was towards the north
by east horizon, iih om a great number of luminous masses were
scattered over the western sky (and extending to the south) to
nearly as high as the zenith. These were mostly parallel strips
with some irregular masses. They extended from the horizon and
seen:ed to diverge upwards.
September 29. The sky was irregularly covered everywhere
with a kind of luminous haze which occurred in great areas and in
strips, with a few clear spaces between which were relatively dark.
They were more or less conspicuous. At 8h 25m a difl:'used lumi-
nous band stretched from Corona Borealis to the southwest horizon
— nearly north and south. This continued northerly nearly to the
pole and was difl:'used to the west. In the south and southeast for
20° above Fomalhaut to a Ceti was the upper edge of a luminous
mass of haze covering the southeast sky to the horizon. Other
diffused areas of this matter were visible at difi^erent points over
the sky. The wdiole sky was more or less luminous, but less notice-
able than the regions described above. By 8h 50m the broad lumi-
nous strip at Corona Borealis had drifted a little east among the
stars, but it seemed to go westward with them. At iih lom a watch
could be read by the light of the sky. This was one of the bright-
est of the luminous nights that I have seen. The matter seemed to
be only ordinary haze but luminous for some reason. There was
no trace of aurora. The sky on which the luminous haze was seen
was, at this time, brightened with a pale uniform illumination cover-
ing the entire heavens and nearly blotting out the Milkv Way. These
masses had very little motion. The sky was too luminous for long
exposures with a portrait lens.
