191 1-] BARNARD— SELF-LUMINOUS NIGHT HAZE. 251
September 30. At 9h 15m for 10° above the east by north
horizon a broad luminous band 50° long was seen just aboye and
involving Aldebaran. It stetched to the south of the east point
and in brightness resembled the appearance produced by the moon
just before it rises. The light was soft, yet conspicuous. At
loh lom under Capella was a large soft diffused light — dift'using
to the east and beyond. This light was steady with no fluctuations.
Nothing of a similar nature was visible in the north or elsewhere.
The sky was dull and more or less luminous. At loh 55m the
illumination extended half way up to Aldebaran and the sky near
the horizon was luminous like moonrise. This extended from 25°
south of east to nearly due north, rising much higher under Capella
— a very soft and steady illumination. I2h om. The illumination was
feeble and diffused. At I2h 30m it was very feeble and mostly in
the northeast — scarcely noticeable. At this time dark smeary haze
was visible all over the south. Xo evidence of an ordinary aurora
was seen during the night. The sky was luminous all over, but
not so much so as on the twenty-ninth.
October i. There was a bright aurora.
October 2. 8h om. A pale illumination was seen in the low
north and also in the low east. The effect was probably auroral.
October 6. The night was more or less luminous and misty.
October 28. There was a luminous sky at night.
October 30. I3h om. The night was very luminous with fully
as much light as would be caused by a one quarter full moon. The
Milky Way was scarcely visible. Watch easily read by the glow
at I4h om. At i5h and i5h 30m a luminous haze covered all the
low northern sky as high as half way to the pole. This was not
strong and did not look like an aurora. It seemed simply to be
luminous haze.
November i, i2h 15m. The sky was remarkably luminous every-
where. In the north from the horizon to halfway to the pole the
sky appeared more luminous than elsewhere. No trace of an arch.
The illumination did not look like that from an aurora, but at
I5h 30m a strong auroral arch had formed.
November 10. i2h om. There was a great amount of luminous
