252 BARNARD— SELF-LUMINOUS NIGHT HAZE. [April 21,
haze in the north and northwest. At I5h om a large mass 10° high
was visible in the northwest. Later there was a long diffused strip,
10° wide, which cut the Milky Way at right angles 20° above
a Cygni. It was 40° or 50° in length and did not fluctuate. Its
appearance was that of luminous haze. Below it was a region of
luminous haze that extended to the north.
191 1, February 28, 1511 30m. For 20° to 25° altitude all over
the east and northeast the sky was luminous with a soft auroral
light. There was no arch or intensification near the usual place
for an aurora. This was not due to the presence of the ]\Iilky Way
at that point.
March 2, 8h lom. A long mass of luminous haze 6° or 8°
broad was visible below (3 Leonis in the east. It diffused down to
the northeast horizon. It seemed to be brighter at times, but there
were no certain fluctuations of its light. It was not bright. 8h 50m.
The region of luminous haze was passing over Arcturus and moving
towards the east horizon. It was nearly horizontal and 30° long
with the north end the lowest. loh 45m. A long mass of luminous
haze was visible one half way from Spica to the southeast horizon.
It extended south as far as Corvus and inclined to the southeast
horizon. It was quite bright and steady in its light. All of the
southeastern sky strongly resembled the glow from an expected
moonrise. iih 35m. A strong glow from the southeast horizon
extended up to 15° or 20° above Jupiter — like a strong moonrise —
all along from the east to the south and dift'using upward. It was
conspicuously strong. By this time the sky was increasing in
luminosity. In the meantime there had been no trace of aurora
during the night. These were the first of the luminous masses of
haze that I had seen for a long time, except that of February 28,
when it appeared near the northeast horizon.
Since the above observations I have not seen any of this luminous
haze on the few clear nights that we have had in the absence of
the moon.
Yerkes Observatory,
April 4, 191 1.
