191 1.] MOLECULES IN THE TAIL OF HALLEY'S COMET. 255
tion agrees with what would be shown by particles leaving the
nucleus and travelling in hyperbolic orbits away from the sun, the
sun being in the full or the empty focus according to the speed of
recession.
Although the general fact is thus evident, to measure the reces-
sion directly is to obtain both an observatioral proof of it and also
something approaching an exact value of the velocity at a given
time and place. Accordingly I determined to do this in the case of
Halley's comet at its recent apparition. At my disposal were the
two hundred photographs taken of it at the Lowell Observatory
between April i8 and June 6. To obtain trustworthy results the
photographs to be compared must not be separated by too long an
interval, since with time a general commingling of the various par-
ticles takes place which not only renders particular decipherment of
different outbursts impossible but entirely alters the actual speeds.
In the case of Halley's comet this difficulty \\as enhanced bv the
unusual uniformity of the tail. Irregularities, bunches or knots
were rare : the tail presenting as a rule, a remarkably orderly deport-
ment, dishearteningly same. Among the many plates, however, I
was able to select a pair taken seriatim capable of recognition and
measurement. Some of these handles to ir.vestigation were in the
nature of bunches of matter, some of abrupt changes in its direction
looking like promontories along the general line of the tail. I chose
four of the more salient excrescences and selecting identical features
of them in the two negatives measured their respective distances
from the nucleus on the two plates. The first plate was exposed
from 9h 23m to gh 53m and the second from loh om to loh 53m,
so that the one followed directly on the other.
\\'hen the angular amounts of the changes in place of the several
knots were corrected for differential refraction and then reduced to
speeds, account being taken of the distance of the comet from the
earth and of the inclination to the line of sight of the respective
positions along the tail, the results came out as follows :
From these measurements the fact emerges unmistakablv that a
repulsive force directed away from the sun acted upon the particles
on the tail.
