256 LOWELL— REPULSION OF GASEOUS -MOLECULES [April 21,
Tail of Hallev's Comet.
Knot
I
Knot
2
Knot
^
Knot
4
Angular Distance from the Nucleus to
the Point Measured in the Tail.
Velocity of the Point of the Tail Away
from the Nucleus.
13.6 miles a second
17.2 " " " .
19.7 " " "
29.7 " " "
3. \\'hile the series of direct photographs was being taken two
series of spectrograms were being carried on by Dr. SHpher, one with
an objective prism; the other set through a sht. The objective prism
ones recorded simultaneously the spectrum of the nucleus and head,
together with that of the tail out to about 11° from the nucleus.
One of them was got on Alay 23 at the same time as the photo-
graphs measured; while others were obtained on dates before and
after. Of the direct information afforded by these spectrograms of
the constitution of the comet an account is given in the extensive
monograph on the comet published by the Lowell Observatory.
4. But a third result was obtained by the unwitting collaboration
of the spectrograms and the photographs. While the photographs
were giving their pictures of the tail, the objective prism spectro-
grams were doing the like, with this difference that they recorded in
a row pictures of it in the several colors of the spectrum, sifting
out into a band those made by each separate wave-length of light.
They thus made it possible to tell to what wave-lengths the visible
appearances were due. For it became evident at once from the
spectrograms that all wave-lengths were not equally concerned. On
the contrary, there were in the spectral image several distinct tails
with spectral gaps between. By an analysis of the wave-lengths
yielding pictures of the tail was thus offered a diagnosis of the sub-
stances composing it. In this way it appeared that CO.,, carbon
monoxide, was the chief constituent of the tail ; CH^, marsh gas,
another; CX, cyanogen, a third component; and minute solid parti-
cles, giving a more or less continuous spectrum, a fourth.
That not one but a series of spectrograms was taken was impor-
tant. It not only gave us a constitutional history of the tail but it
showed the necessity of simultaneity in photographic and spectro-
graphic observations for comparative purposes. For the series
