12 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
beds originated as peat bogs. He believed that coal was formed
chiefly from the harder species of reeds, and the vegetable matter
had been dissolved in an oily substance. The fluidity of the material
is proved by the occurrence of thin streaks in sandstone as well as
by carbonaceous shale, which contains enough combustible matter
to be utilized as fuel. The opinion that stone coal was at one time
brown coal and that, in turn, originally peat deserves no considera-
tion ; it is merely the notion of a closet student and Voigt is sur-
prised that Beroldingen, who had seen so many localities of stone
and brown coal and peat, should offer the suggestion. Stone coal
belongs to the oldest formations while brown coal and peat are of
the newest ; one might as well suggest that a child begat its mother,
and the mother, the grandmother. It is sufficiently clear that Voigt
conceived that the vegetable matter was first converted into bitumen
and then transferred. His memoir was crowned by the Gottingen
academv. The prominence thus given to it as well as the emphatic
manner in which its assertions were made did much to repress the
readiness shown by contemporaries to accept the Heroldingen hypoth-
esis in whole or in part.
Faujas-St.-Fond^" discussing the source of coals occurring in
what he terms granitic regions, says that they were deposited in
bays or vast basins excavated by' the sea. Currents transported into
these receptacles materials from the granites, which became beds of
greater or less thickness. Sometimes the seas brought the plants
which, along with animals so abound in them, and these accumulated
pele mele with the products of terrestrial vegetation brought down
by the rivers. At other times the tides deposited on these beds of
combustible materials the quartz sand of the sea bottom; at later
periods, wood and plants arrived again, were deposited on the sands
or clays ; thus were formed the alternating beds of vegetable mate-
rial with combustil)le residues of fish, mollusks and marine plants.
Al. Brongniart^' described in detail the various types of coal,
lignite and ]^eat. He evidently accepts \"oigt's conclusion that there
is no bond between coal and lignite, while at the same time he hesi-
'"B. Faujas-St.-]^\)n(l, " Essai de geologic," Paris, 1803, p. 443.
"Alex. Brongniart, " Traite eleniciitairc de mineralogie avec des applica-
tions aux arts," Paris, 1807, t. 2, pp. 13, 14, 32. 36.
12
