262 SEE— THE NEW COSMOGONY. [April 2,.
been detached by acceleration of rotation, as handed down by tradi-
tion from Laplace's original nebular hypothesis of 1796.
2. As the planets and satellites could not have been thrown ot¥.
they must have been captured and added on from without, or else
have been formed from the agglomeration of fine dust right where
they now revolve. This latter alternative, however, is easily shown
to be impossible, owing to the feeble mutual gravitational attraction
of small masses of matter under the stronger tendencies to di.spersion
by tidal action, which always exist near large centres of attraction.
There remains therefore no possible mode of origin for the planets
and satellites save that of capture, or addition to the system from
without.
3. When first captured the satellites must therefore have been
already of such considerable size that they were able to gather in,
and consolidate with their globes, numerous smaller masses revolv-
ing in the vortices about the planets. The collisions arising in this
process of the gathering in of smaller bodies by larger ones are
strikingly illustrated by the craters noticed in the face of the Moon,
which were formed by impact, the embedded satellites being in some
cases at least twenty miles in diameter.
4. Thus while the satelHtes were all captured,^ and were orig-
inally further from their planets than they are at present, they have
grown larger in the course of ages as they revolved in the resisting
medium about tlie planets, just as the earth and primary planets are
still growing larger by the impact of meteorites against their sur-
faces, as they slowly approach the sun. The earth sweeps up daily
1,200,000,000 meteors, and the amount of this dust is calculated to
to form a layer a millimeter thick in a century.
5. We know the satellites must have grown in mass since they
were captured, because they have been drawn nearer and nearer their
several planets, by increase of the central attraction, as in the cele-
brated problem of Gylden.^'' But if the mass of the sun has
increased, by the downfall of cosmical dust, so also must the mass
^ Since this was written the capture of Satellites has been independently
confirmed by Professor E. W. Brown, in an important paper in the Monthly
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society for March, 191 1, p. 453.
'•'A. N., 2593.
