191 1.] SEE— THE NEW COSMOGONY. 263
of the planet or satellite have been correspondingly augmented by the
same cause.
6. For whilst the decrease of the major axis of the orbit of a
satellite might result wholly from the growth of the mass of the
planet and satellite, yet the decrease of the eccentricity of a satellite
orbit can be explained only by collisions in the nebular resisting
medium. This cause and no other whatsoever will explain the
roundness of the orbits so characteristic of the solar system.
7. Accordingly as most of the satellites sufifered collisions suffi-
cient to reduce and well nigh destroy the eccentricities of their
orbits,- it necessarily follows that all these bodies should have their
surfaces indented by impacts with smaller masses, just as is shown
by the craters on the moon.
8. For whilst Oppolzer, Gylden and others have proved that the
growth of the masses by the downfall of cosmical dust would,
increase the central attraction and bring the bodies close together,
it is proved by the mathematical researches of Airy, Herschel, Leh-
mann-Filhes, and Stromgren, which I have carefully verified, that
this decrease in the major axis does not decrease the eccentricity.
Hence the decrease of the eccentricity is traceable to no cause what-
soever but the action of a nebular resisting medium, as held in my
" Researches." \'ol. II., p. 146.
9. The craters on the moon can therefore be due to no cause
whatsoever other than the collisions which our satellite has suffered
from other small bodies in space, and all divisions of opinion on the
subject are henceforth swept away forever. For as the other satel-
lites have had their orbits rounded up in nearing their several planets,
it is necessary to suppose the same cause to have acted also on our
moon, even if the eccentricity of the orbit in this case has not been
rendered excessively small.
10. This solution of the problem of the roundness of the orbits — -
the leading problem in the cosmogony of our solar system — is what
mathematicians call a unique solution. It reveals not only a possible,
but also the only possible cause of the extremely circular niove-
" In section 548 of his " General Astronomy," edition of 1904, the late
Professor C. A. Young remarks that the " almost perfect circularity of the
satellite orbits is not yet explained."
