264 SEE— THE NE\V COSMOGONY. [April 21.
iitciit characteristic of the planets and satellites. The solution thus
possesses all the rigor of a theorem in geometry, and meets the
requirements of the most rigorous of the mathematical sciences.
11. The existence of planets beyond Neptune is indicated by the
extreme roundness of Neptune's orbit; for this shows that the
nebulosity was much too dense at that point for the system to ter-
minate at the present known boundary. Moreover, as I have shown
that the planets were originally connected with the comets, and the
comets recede to their home in a spherical shell thousands of times
the earth's distance from the sun, it necessarily follows that our
planetary system extends on almost indefinitely. Several planets of
considerable size must be assumed to revolve beyond Neptune, and
they may yet be discovered by observation or photography, though
at that great distance the practical difiliculties will increase, owing to
the feebleness of the sun's light and the slow orbital motion, which
will require exposures of the photographic plate extending over
many hours, and perhaps on successive days.
12. The planets have been built up out of cosmical dust, comets
and satellites ; so that all the matter now in the planets come origi-
nally from the heavenly spaces. This follows from the fact that
the nebular development is from the outside toward the center, the
formation always beginning in the distance and proceeding by accre-
tion as the bodies gravitate towards the sun, and revolve in ever
smaller and rounder orbits. This order of development is directly
verified by the phenomena of the spiral and ring nebulae; for here
the movement is proved to be towards the center, where the sun
develops for the domination of the system.
13. And just as our planets have been added onto the sun from
without, not thrown olT, as was erroneously taught for more than a
century by Laplace and his successors, so also will similar planets
have been formed by the same process about the other fixed stars.
Thus there are undoubtedly systems of planets about the fixed stars,
and they are habitable and inhabited like those revolving about
the sun. Moreover, the other suns have their systems of comets,
and their planets have captured systems of satellites as in our plane-
tary system. This grand conclusion rests on an incontestable basis
and is of transcendent philosophic interest.
