191 1.] SEE— THE NEW COSMOGONY. 265
14. The causes which have operated in the development of our
solar system are thus general throughout the sidereal universe.
Everywhere repulsive forces are dispersing fine dust from the stars
to form the nebula", and the nebulae in turn are settling down and
whirling around to form stars with planetary systems about them.
15. Professor Barnard's magnificent photographs of the Milky
Way show that cosmical dust everywhere pervades the heavenly
spaces. And it is proved that variable stars are due chiefly to
attendant bodies revolving in resisting media. When considerable
bodies come into collision, as a large planet with a sun, the result
is a temporary star or Nova.
16. The new cosmogony thus embraces within its scope the chief
problems of the universe, and the dynamical causes assigned are
deduced from simple phenomena operating according to known laws
which are actually verified in the solar system. The arrangement
of the nebulffi on either side of the ^Milky Way is the natural out-
come of the operation of repulsive forces, the canopy of nebulse con-
gregating as far from the stratum of stars as possible. This assigns
a known cause for the great order of nature first brought to light by
the telescopic explorations of the elder HerscheHn 1785.
Like astronomy itself it is obvious that cosmogony is at once the
oldest and newest of the physical sciences. Having renewed its
youth by the introduction of definite principles and exact methods,
it has recently taken on such vigor that it promises to become the
most majestic of the sciences. Nothing is more worthy of the at-
tention of philosophers than the study of the great laws of the phy-
sical universe, and the marvelous processes of development by which
the beauty and order of the cosmos came about. This was the
great problem which gave rise to the development of the physical
sciences among the Greeks, and it will always occupy a position of
transcendent importance in the domain of natural philosophy.
U. S. Naval Observatory.
Mare Island, California,
April 3, 191 1.
