270 SEE— SECULAR EFEECTS OF THE [April 21,
character.'- The modern discussions based on the analytical methods
of Gylden are, however, much more satisfactory than those of the
age of Laplace; and I propose to give a brief account of them,
chiefly with a view of summarizing the state of our knowledge, and
of removing some inconsistencies which may mislead those who are
unfamiliar with the literature of the subject.
For example, in the late Professor Benjamin Peirce's " Ideality
in the Physical Sciences," Boston, 1881, p. 131, the following
curious statement occurs :
The constant increase of the solar mass would have an influence on the
planetary orbits. It would diminish their eccentricities, according to a law
of easy computation. Hence it is possible that the orbits of the planets may
have been originally very eccentric, almost like those of the comets ; and
their present freedom from eccentricity may have resulted from the growing
mass of the sun. What modification of the nebular theory may be involved
in this supposition cannot easily be imagined, without the guidance of some
indication from nature.
This statement is misleading and erroneous, and the only way I
can explain its appearance in the writings of Peirce is by the fact
that his last lectures were prepared when he was at an advanced age
and in ill health ; and thus it is probable that some confusion
occurred. Quite recently an analogous confusion has appeared in
the Asirononiischc Nachrichioi, Xo. 4454, in a short article by Dr.
R. Bryant, on the secular acceleration of the moon's mean motion.
In order to place before the reader a summary of the chief
investigations bearing on the problems now under discussion we cite
the following papers :
1. " The Problem of the Newtonian Attraction of two Bodies
with masses \'arying with the Time," H. Gylden (A. N., 2593).
2. ■' Ein Specialfall des Gylden'schen Problems," J. Mestschersky
(A. X., 3153 and 3807).
3. " I'eber Central Bewegungen," R. Lehmann-Filhes {A. N.,
3479-80).
4. " Note on Gylden's Equations of the Problem of Two Bodies
with Masses \"arying with the Time." E. O. Lovett {A. N., 3790).
5. " l/eber die Bedeutung Kleiner Massenanderungen ftir die
Xewtonsche Central Bewegung," Dr. E. Strtimgren (A. .V., 3897).
■ Mecanique Celeste, Liv. X., § 20.
