272 SEE— SECULAR EFFECTS OF THE [April 21,
Here )i is the mean motion and E the eccentric anomaly. It will
be seen from the first of equations (6) that the semi-axis major is
diminished by a secular term depending on t, and by a periodic term
depending on the difference of the sines of the angles E and -Eg, or
the position in the orbit. Thus the mean distance is subjected to
both periodic and secular variation.
In the case of the eccentricity, however, the second of the equa-
tions (6) show's that there is no secular term, and only periodic
changes occur. A similar remark applies to the longitude of the
perihelion as shown by the third equation -of (6).
We conclude, therefore, from Stromgren's careful analysis that
there is no secular decrease in the eccentricity due to a steady
growth of the central mass; and that the views expressed by Peirce
and Bryant are due to confusion, or to some error in the chain of
reasoning.
This conclusion accords with the result reached by Professor
Lehmann-Filhes, in paper Xo. 3,'' cited above. For Lehmann-
Filhes shows that
c cos TT = r„ cos TT,, + periodic terms, 1
e sin TT^ (',, sin tt,, -|- periodic terms : J
and remarks that when the attracting mass slowly increases the
orbit slowly narrows up, but yet always remains a similar conic
section. He adds that this is true for any eccentricity whatever.
The results of Lehmann-Filhes and Stromgren, each worked out
independently of the other, and with much detail, are therefore in
entire accord; and as Str(">mgren's development is given in full, and
every step in liis analysis is quite clear, we must reject the conclu-
sions of Peirce and Bryant as not v.'ell founded.
This concllusion that the steady increase of the central mass will
not diminish the eccentricity also confirms the results reached by
Airy* and by Sir John Herschel.-^' For these eminent authorities
show that a central attractive disturbance decreases the eccentricity
as the planet moves from the perihelion to the aphelion, but increases
^Cf. A. N., 3479-3480.
* ■' Gravitation," pp. 50-51.
'"Outlines of Astronomy," tentli edition, 1869, p. 463.
