19".] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 13
tates to accept the doctrine that coal is product of decomposition
of organized bodies. Brongniart exhibits much caution in respect
to generahzations but offers these conclusions which he thinks are
derivable from actual observation : ( i ) That the coal is a formation
contemporaneous with or posterior to the existence of the organized
bodies; (2) that this combustible, when it was deposited or formed,
was liquid, homogeneous and in a great degree of fineness, which is
proved by the frequently parallelopipedonous structure and by the
manner in which it is absorbed by the beds which enclose it; (3)
that the cause, which has deposited or formed it, was renewed sev-
eral times in the same place, with conditions almost the same; (4)
that this cause has been the same for almost all the earth, since the
coal beds present in their structure and their accessory conditions
almost always the same phenomena; (5) that these beds have been
deposited without violent disturbances, since the organized bodies
which are found in them are often entire and since the leaves, which
are impressed on the shales covering the coal, are expanded and are
hardly ever rubbed or even folded.
Parkinson^^ regarded coal as a product of vegetable matter
reduced to fluidity by bituminous fermentation ; this fluid suffered
modification of its inflammability by deposition of carbon and by
intimate admixture with various salts. The vegetable matter had
been swept into the sea by the universal deluge.
Kidd^^ summarizes the doctrine of transport thus, " Powerful
floods have swept away forests and subsequently covered them with
the ruins of the soil in which they grew ; whence those beds of clay
and gritstone which so generally accompany the coal itself." His
objections to this doctrine are that remains of trees and shrubs are
wanting; that the plants are evidently those of many places; that
the mechanical force, which uprooted the forests and swept away
the vegetable matter as well as the greater amount of the earthy
matter in the shales and gritstones, must have been extreme ; yet
the particles of the grit are not rounded and show no sign of attri-
^*J. Parkinson, "Organic Remains of a Former World," London, 1811,
Vol. L, p. 248.
^"J. Kidd, "A Geological Essay on the Imperfect Evidences in Support
of a Theory of the Earth,"' Oxford, 1815, pp. 126, 127, ij8.
13
