19".] INCREASE OF THE SUN'S MASS. 273
it correspondingly in going from the aphelion to the perihelion ; so
that only periodic changes of the elements c and tt occur.
Accordingly it foUows that the only possible cause which could
have diminished and practically obliterated the eccentricities of the
orbits of the planets and satellites is the secular action of a resisting
medium, as fully set forth in Volume II. of my " Researches on the
Evolution of the Stellar Systems," 1910. Increasing the central
mass accelerates the mean motions, and thus hecomes very sensible
in the theory of the motions of the planets; but it has no eftect on
the shape of their orbits. The almost circular form of the planetary
orbits, therefore, may be referred to the secular action of a resisting
medium and to no other cause whatsoever.
This result is of no ordinary interest, since it refers the round-
ness of the planetary orbits to but a single physical cause, and gives
us what mathematicians call a unique solution of the leading problem
of cosmogony. For Babinet's criterion shows beyond doubt that
the "planets never were detached from the central bodies which now
govern their motions ; and the argument given in A'olume II. of my
" Researches " proves that all these bodies were formed in the
distance and afterwards neared the central masses about which they
now revolve. The demonstration of the true mode of formation of
our solar system is therefore supported by the necessary and suffi-
cient conditions usually required in mathematical reasoning; and we
may say that the laws of the formation of the solar system have been
confirmed by mathematical criteria having all the rigor required in
the science of geometry. This generalization will, I think, add not
a little to our interest in the geometry of the heavens; and it is
equally worthy of the attention of the astronomer, the geometer and
the natural philosopher, who so long struggled to unfold the wonder-
ful process involved in the formation of the planetary system.
U. S. Naval Observatory,
Mare Island, California,
March 20. 191 1.
