14 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
tion. He objects further that the theory does not account for the
alternation of calcareous with argillaceous and siliceous beds, and
asks on what principle one may expect that beds of earth, spread out
by the floods, should be periodically calcareous, argillaceous or sili-
ceous, and how can it account for the alternations of clay beds with
numerous coal beds ; why should a second flood in its blind fury
deposit a second series of beds on exactly the same spot where the
first series is deposited?
Conybeare-° adhered to the belief that vegetable matter alone
was the source of coal and accepted Sternberg's suggestion that
torrents tore oiT the vegetation from scattered primitive islands
to deposit at the bottom of adjacent basins. He conceived at this
early date a theory having not a few of the features characterizing
one offered at a much later date. He thinks that the coal measures
were deposited in estuaries and that the partial filling up of lakes
and estuaries oft'ers us the only analogies in the actual order of
things with which the coal deposits can be compared. Respecting
the deposit at Bovey Tracy, he says :
We must here suppose the wintry torrents to liave swept away a great
part of the vegetation of the neighboring hills and buried them in the estu-
ary with the alluvial detritus collected in its course : tlie latter would, from
its gravity, have sunk first and formed tlie floor ; tlie wood would have
floated till, having lost its more volatile parts by decomposition and become
saturated with water moisture, it likewise subsided upon them, being per-
haps loaded by fresh alluvium drifted down upon its surface; the re-iterated
devastations of successive seasons must have produced the repetition and
alternation of the beds . . . and if we suppose a like order of things to have
operated more extensively and for a longer period during the formation of
the coal strata, we shall find sucli an hypothesis sufficiently in accordance
with their general ])hcnomena.
Ad. Brongniart,-^ after long study of the fossil plants, concluded
that in the Carboniferotis time the dr}- land was confined to islands
on which grew the ])lants who>e remains are in the coal formation.
Numerous proofs established that the plants grew in the very places
where they are found or, at most, within only a little distance away.
"" \V. 1). Conybearc. "Outlines of Geology of Enghuid and Wales,"
London, 1822, pp. 334, 345. 347.
■' Adolphe Brongniart. "" Prodromme d'une histoirc des vegetaux fos-
siles," Paris, 1828, pp. 183, 184.
14
