I9I1.] IDDINGS— PROBLEMS IN PETROLOGY. 291
while the third is ahiiost wholly hornblende, only 2 per cent, being
pyroxene and nephelite. The same magma might have crystallized
as nephelite-basanite, as appears from the calculated mineral com-
position shown in column 5, and from comparison with the analysis
and mineral composition of a nephelite-basanite from Colfax County,
N. M., shown in columns 4 and 6.
This is only an extreme case of variations well known to exist in
most groups of rocks that ma}- be referred to chemically similar
magmas. And the magma alrcad}- cited as capable of furnishing a
pyroxene-andesite may also yield a quartz-mica-diorite, whose com-
position is shown in column 3 of the first table.
It is evident from these examples that the minerals called horn-
blende, or more properly amphibole, in the descriptions of these
rocks differ widely in chemical composition, and often represent
totally different mixed salts. Thus in the hornblendite of Gran, the
hornblende contains all the components that might, under other con-
ditions, have crystallized as pyroxene, olivine, feldspar, leucite,
nephelite and magnetite.
Any attempt to correlate igneous rocks on the basis of the actual
mineral composition, without taking into account the actual chem-
ical composition of the minerals involved in each case must lead to
confusion.
One of the most important problems in petrology is the elucida-
tion of the laws controlling the production of mineral compounds
from molten magmas. A consideration of the simpler chemical reac-
tions that may be expected to take place in silicate solutions like
rock magmas, and which do take place in crucibles in the laboratory,
explains the formation of the feldspars, leucite, nephelite, quartz,
diopside, hypersthene, olivine, magnetite and some other rock
minerals.
Minerals like mica clearly involve the chemical action of water,
or its components, hydrogen and hydroxyl. since hydrogen enters
into its constitution. According to Penfield hydroxyl, and sometimes
fluorine, enters into the composition of hornblendes, forming bivalent
radicles with aluminium, and ferric iron. In pyrogenetic analcite,
and in other possibly primary zeolites in igneous rocks, H^O enters
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC. L. I99 S, PRINTED JUNE 30, I9II.
