292 IDDINGS— PROBLEMS IN PETROLOGY. [April 21,
into the silicate compound. The physical conditions which control
the chemical equilibrium within magma solutions that yield these
mineral compounds are problems for the geophysicist, though their
nature may be inferred in a general way from the mode of occur-
rence of the rocks containing the minerals in question.
Indications of a catalytic action of H^O within rock magmas are
furnished by the association of free silica with orthosilicates con-
taining magnesium and iron, such as the common occurrence of
quartz and biotite in granitic rocks ; the frequent association of
quartz and tridymite with olivine in lavas ; and of quartz, tridymite
and fayalite in lithophysae in certain highly siliceous lavas.
The instability of these systems under changed conditions of
equilibrium is shown by the inversion of hornblende to an aggrega-
tion of pyroxene, magnetite and feldspar, in some lavas ; and by the
solution of quartz phenocrysts in some basalts, accompanied by the
formation of shells of metasilicates surrounding them.
Already laboratory research has established the range of stability
of some of the rock minerals under laboratory conditions : the inver-
sion temperatures under atmospheric pressures of the various forms
of SiOo, quartz, tridymite, crystobalite ; of the simpler compounds
crystallizing as orthorhombic and monoclinic pyroxene, and the
corresponding amphiboles ; of a simple system involving aluminium,
magnesium calcium silicates ; and of other series of compounds.
The value of these definite contributions to the problems of the
mineral composition of igneous rocks is great. Much more is
needed. And the necessity for eventually approaching nearer to
the physical conditions obtaining in rock magmas is apparent, when
the probable efficiency, chemical and physical, of highly heated
gases under strong pressures is taken into consideration. Research
under such conditions is attended with great difiiculties, and some
risks. Enough has been mentioned to show a wide range for future
study by the geophysicist, the chemist, and the petrographer.
2. The Mathematics of the Petrology of Igneous Rocks.
The study of igneous rocks involves the consideration of groups
of intricate relationships, the exact expression of which is at pres-
