igii-l IDDINGS— PROBLEMS IN PETROLOGY. 293
ent beyond our competence. Abstract conceptions of some of the
simpler relationships, based on partial knowledge of the factors
involved, serve to point the way along which quantitative investiga-
tion may be profitably pursued.
The stoichiometric character of the chemical compounds that con-
stitute rock minerals relates them as definite functions to the chemical
constituents of the liquid magma from which they crystallized. The
existence of mixed crystals, and of solid solutions, introduces the
treatment of series into the problem of the expression of the relation-
ship between the mineral composition of a rock and the chemical
composition of its magma. In such an expression the fixed compo-
nents alone are involved. But there are definite quantitative rela-
tionships to be expressed regarding those chemical components of a
magma which may act only catalytically in producing the actual
mineral combination constituting the rock. Such actions may be
chemical, in the sense that compounds form that subsequently dis-
appear, as should H.O combine with SiOo to form hydrogen ortho-
silicate, 1^48104, and subsequently resolve itself into water and quartz
or tridymite. Or they may be physical, in the sense that increased
molecular mobility in the magma liquid may affect the character of
the crystallization by changing the freezing point and the nature of
the compounds stable under the conditions obtaining at the time. In
the broadest sense, then, the mineral composition of an igneous rock
is a function of the chemical composition of the magma.
Since the physical conditions attending the solidification of rock
magmas affect the chemical equilibrium of the constituents, as well
as the physical character of the liquid, its temperature and viscosity,
and also influence the chemical composition with respect to the gas-
eous components capable of being held in solution under pressure,
the mineral composition of an igneous rock is also a function of the
physical conditions attending its solidification.
To a notable extent is this also true of the texture of such rocks,
their degree of crystallization, size of grain, and the shape and
arrangement of the individual minerals. In the expression of these
relationships the treatment of serial functions must be a pronounced
feature. The gradual variations of temperature and pressure are as
