19".] IDDINGS— PROBLEMS IN PETROLOGY. 295
Magma solutions possess different degrees of heterogeneity as
shown by the composition of various bodies of igneous rocks. In
some there are shght differences in different parts, extending through
large masses. In others marked diff'erences occur within short dis-
tances in small masses. Variability in the composition of igneovis
rocks from place to place is a universal characteristic, resulting in
series of varieties of composition within single bodies, and among
different masses. The aggregate of all such series of variations in
one region may form a continuous series of wide extent; or there
may be gaps in the series in one region, which may be filled by the
phases of composition exhibited by rocks in another region.
In one region the composition of a nearly homogeneous rock mass
of considerable magnitude may assume a certain local petrographic
importance, while in another region it may appear only as a facies
of another rock body. There appears to be no chemicophysical rea-
son for the production of a magma solution of one mixed composition
rather than of another very nearly the same. But it is known that:
magmas of intermediate, or more mixed, compositions, are more
abundant than those of extreme, or simpler, compositions.
The accumulated evidence of chemical analysis, microscopical
study of rock sections, and observation in the field, shows the exist-
ence of wide serial variations of composition, continuous along
numerous lines, owing to the number of variable components. This
evidence also shows that there is no one definitely composed magma
solution more abundant throughout large areas of the earth than
others ; none that deserves special consideration, or may be recog-
nized as a universal type. It is true, as already remarked, that in
certain regions there are large bodies of rock having nearly uniform
composition that assume local importance, and serve as types for
reference in particular regions. But it must be admitted that the
idea of type is subjective, inherent in the petrographer, not the rock.
And when all known series of igneous rocks are treated as products
of chemicophysical reactions universal in their application, the for-
tuitous character of the chemical composition of particular bodies of
erupted magma becomes apparent, and the significance of such local
types disappears in a systematic treatment of the whole body of
