296 IDDINGS— PROBLEMS IN PETROLOGY. [April 21,
petrographical facts involved in a comprehensive description of
igneous rocks.
Recognizing the existence of continuous series of petrographical
factors, chemical, mineral and textural, necessary to the complete
description and definition of igneous rocks, the problem presents itself
of dividing the complex series of rocks so characterized into parts
that may be described in a comprehensive and systematic manner.
A familiar example of a physical series divided in a regular man-
ner for purposes of exact use is that of temperature, partitioned in
degrees of definite proportions of a continuous scale. It is undoubt-
edly an arbitrary method and differs distinctly in three commonly
employed usages. It might be a more "natural" method to express
temperature with reference to the melting points of a series of sub-
stances ; and the value of certain of these definite points as datum
points is well known. But the merits of the arbitrarily, but very
naturally, divided scale are attested by its universal employment.
The proposal to partition the petrographical series into quantita-
tively definite parts, as has been done in the Quantitative System of
Classification of Igneous Rocks, the size of the divisions being arbi-
trarily chosen, has excited criticism by some petrographers, who
consider. it arbitrary, artificial and not " natural." But the objection,
that measured precision condemns a classification of igneous rocks,
because it makes evident " its aloofness from the scheme of nature
based not on arithmetical but on physical and chemical principles,"^
suggests a lack of appreciation of the mathematical precision of
stoichiometric chemistry, and a failure to grasp the definiteness of
quantitative physics, whose natural expression is found in higher
mathematics. Both of these sciences are fundamental to that of
petrologv ; and as mathematics is the language, or expression, of
quantitative relationships, the more definite the knowledge of the
quantitative factors and relationships obtaining in igneous rocks, the
more natural will become their expression in mathematical terms.
Acknowledging the usefulness of such terms as " consanguinity "
and " parent " magmas, in emphasizing the fact that there is relation-
ship between rocks in certain instances, it must be admitted that the
too frequent use of these and other biological terms, as " families "
' Harker, A., " The Natural History of Igneous Rocks," 1909, p. 366.
