I91I.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 17
of coal, it may be inferred, that such clay stratum could not have
been the soil, where grew the vegetable matter which produced the
coal, unless this vegetable matter was a moss, a peat, or some aquatic
plant; because in the clay, there is no appearance of trunks, or
other vegetable impressions, beyond slender leaves, as of a long
grass."
Lyell-^ about this time committed himself in part to both hypoth-
esis, though evidently disposed to favor that of transport. " The
coal itself is admitted to be of vegetable origin and the state of
the plants and the beautiful preservation of their leaves in the
accompanying shales precludes the idea of their having been floated
from great distances. As the species were evidently terrestrial, we
must conclude that some dry land was not far distant ; and this
opinion is confirmed by the shells found in some strata of the New-
castle and Shropshire coal-fields." The alternation of marine lime-
stone with strata containing coal beds may be due to alternate rising
and sinking of large tracts, which were first laid dry and then sub-
merged again. He is clearly inclined to agree with the suggestion
made by Sternberg and Ad. Brongniart, that the beds of mineral
detritus were derived from waste of small islands arranged in rows
and he thinks that the suggestion is supported by the observation
that the Coal Measures flora is of insular type.
At a later period, Lyell accepted the autochthonous origin of
the coal beds, as appears in the " Travels in America."
Buckland,-'' in 1836, accepted the theory of transport. " The
most early stage to which we may carry back its origin was among
the swamps and primeval forests, where it flourished in the form of
gigantic Catamites and stately Lepidodcndra and SigillaricE. From
their native bed, these plants were torn away, by the storms and
inundations of a hot and humid climate and transported in some
adjacent Lake or Estuary or Sea. Here they floated on the waters,
until they sank saturated to the bottom, and being buried in the
detritus of adjacent lands, became transferred to a new estate
^^C. Lyell, "Principles of Geology," 5th ed., 1st Amer. ed., Philadelphia,
1837, Vol. L, p. 134.
^®W. Buckland, "Geology and Mineralogy considered with Reference to
Natural Theology, Philadelphia, 1837, pp. 362, 353, 354.
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC. L. I98B, PRINTED APRIL 24, I9II.
17
