191 1.] IDDINGS— PROBLEMS IN PETROLOGY. 299
that the dehmitation of the regions, or provinces, may be pronounced
in some instances, and ill-defined in others.
The character of the rocks in different provinces, and the distri-
bution of provinces throughout the earth, together with their rela-
tions to the geological structure and dynamical history of the region
in which they occur, furnish problems of the first magnitude in
petrology.
One of the questions to be answered is : the relation of the com-
position of igneous rocks of dififerent parts of the earth to its isostasy.
The configuration of the earth's surface demands the presence of
material of dififerent densities beneath the surface. Does this show
itself in the character of the material erupted in dififerent regions.
An answer to this can not be given ofi:'hand. The requirements in
density are relatively so slight when great volumes are concerned,
as pointed out recently by Hayford;* the series of igneous magmas
of any region is so diversified in composition and density ; and the
estimation of their several volumes is so hazardous an undertaking
that a reasonable solution of the problem can only be expected after
the accumulation of a great amount of exact data.
Whether there is any relation between the kinds of magma erupted
in a particular region and the dynamical events wuthin the region is
another problem yet to be solved. Assertions to the effect that there
is a definite relationship have been made, but they are in the nature
of broad generalizations upon questionable premises, producing the
results already discussed in connection with the terms "Atlantic "
and " Pacific."
It is possible that dififerences in the sequence of dynamic events
in various regions, or in one region at various periods of its history,
may be accompanied by differences in the processes and results of
dififerentiation of chemically similar magmas; that is, in series of
erupted rocks, but the existence of such relationships has yet to be
clearly established. For it is also possible that the material of the
earth may be heterogeneous in composition, dififering somewhat from
place to place, and yielding dififerent kinds of magmas in different
* Hayford, J. F.. " The Relations of Isostasy to Geodesy, Geophysics and
Geology," Science, N. S.. Vol. 33, No. 841, 191 1, pp. 199-208.
