.'502 BERRY— TERTIARY FLORAS OF THE [Apr.i ^i.
portant elevation being that of the early Miocene which was followed
by a subsidence, which was, however, less in extent than those which
had preceded it.
No part of the coastal plain is so favorably situated for the study
of the floras which preceded the present, extending backward to a
time which marks the first recorded appearance of angiosperms, as
that of the Gulf states. No single part of North America contains
so continuous a series of Tertiary deposits carrying fossil plants.
Here we find abundant floras in the lower and middle stages of the
Eocene, considerable floras in the Oligocene. some in the later Mio-
cene, and rather abundant fossil plants in the Pliocene. The Rocky
Mountain region is rich in Eocene fossil plants and there are some
Miocene floras, but no Oligocene or Pliocene floras are known. The
Pacific coast region likewise furnishes Eocene and Miocene fossil
plants but none of Oligocene age. The fossil floras of the coastal
plain are found in an area where it is possible to attain to some
measure of accuracy in predicating the general character and course
of ocean currents and winds and other physical features of the en-
vironment. On the other hand the western floras just mentioned
grew in areas where vulcanism was great at times ; in areas of great
orogenic activity, where changes in topography were numerous and
elevations of several thousands of feet are recorded ; areas in which
climatic conditions not only varied from place to place, but passed
through a large cycle of secular changes. All these factors greatly
complicate the floral history.
The floras of the southern coastal plain are moreover checked
for the most part by very abundant marine faunas in intercalated
beds, or the plant-liearing beds which represent the coastal swamps
and the shallow water deposition of the old embayment merge
laterally with the contemporaneous limestones or marls which were
forming in more open waters along the coasts to the southward, so
that there is a considerable body of facts bearing on depth, character
of the bottom, and marine temperatures, with which to compare land
temperatures. These criteria have been admirably worked out for
the Florida area by Doctors Dall and Vaughan for the post-Eocene
and their results furnished a reliable datum plane for the deductions
to be derived from the studv of the fossil floras of these times.
