191 1.] ATLANTIC AND GULF COASTAL PLAIN. 308
So far as I know I was the first paleobotanist to explore the
south Atlantic and Gulf coastal plain and that exploration has only
just begun. Professors Fontaine and Ward visited the region and
collected a few Cretaceous plants a score of years ago. Professor
Lesquereux a generation and a half ago described a few Eocene
plants collected by Professor Hilgard in Mississippi and by Professor
SafTord in Tennessee, and Doctors Knowlton and Hollick have iden-
tified various small collections made by others in different parts of
this vast area.
With the exception of fragments of the petrified stems of con-
ifers, palms and dicotyledons the plant-remains are in the form of
impressions, mostly of foliage, but with a goodly sprinkling of fruits
and seeds, and in some few cases even flowers are preserved.
While the oscillations of the Gulf area have been numerous they
have been, as I have just mentioned, inconsiderable in amount, only
a few hundred feet at most, and the coastal region has uniformly
been one of slight relief. The various floras show a complete
absence of upland types. This is in striking contrast to the Euro-
pean older Tertiary floras. The only large area of the globe which
has been thoroughly studied, Europe, was far less stable than this
region in Tertiary times and lying much farther toward the pole was
subjected to the rigors of Pleistocene conditions whose influence
never reached our southern states.
The object of the writer's work may be classed under three
heads : ( i ) To determine the correlation of the various Tertiary for-
mations particularly in the upper portion of the Mississippi embay-
ment where marine fossils are largely absent, (2) To obtain data
regarding the physical conditions under which the various floras
flourished, (3) To accumulate biological data regarding the geo-
graphical distribution, specific difl"erentiation and evolution of the
Tertiary floras.
Thus one of the principal phases of the study for the geologist
might be embraced under the term paleoecolog)\ The methods
include a study of the old shore lines of the dift'erent epochs, of the
character of the sediments and their genesis, of the contained
animals and plants, and the alternative climatic and edaphic factor.s
which their grouping may indicate.
