i9'i-] ATLANTIC AND GULF COASTAL PLAIN. 305
sippi Gulf were, however, deeper. This factor combined with a
much less influx of fresh water from the tributary streams, due in
some measure to the low relief of the land, enabled marine faunas
to reach well toward the head of the gulf. These faunas indicate
subtropical bottom temperatures northward as far as Paducah, Ky.
The known floras are very scanty and unsatisfactory and in the
present state of our knowledge do not merit an extended discussion.
Lower Eocene.
The ^Midway Eocene was succeeded by a long interval during
which a great thickness of deposits was laid down which are col-
lectively known as the Wilcox Group. The character of these sedi-
ments and their faunas show that the gulf was somewhat restricted
and much shallower than in the preceding stage, with true marine
conditions prevalent only in its lower portion. The shores were
low and relatively flat. They were flanked by current- or wave-built
bars and separated from the mainland by shallow inlets or lagoons.
The lower courses of the streams were transformed into shallow
estuaries or broad swamps through which the smaller streams
meandered. The accompanying sketch map ( Fig. i ) shows the rela-
tion of land to water at this time. The shore line along which the
strand flora migrated is approximately indicated, and some of the
localities where fossil plants have been discovered in the littoral
deposits of this age are indicated by stars, while the general move-
ment of the warm ocean currents is indicated by arrows. A mag-
nificent flora is preserved at a large number of localities in the clay
.lenses which were formed in these estuaries and marginal lagoons.
This flora shows a mingling of tropical and subtropical types as far
northward as where the Ohio River now flows into the Mississippi.
It is of unparalleled richness and- preservation and will bear a more
extended analysis.
Among the ferns it contains representatives of the genera Acro-
stichum, Pteris and Lygodinni, none of which appear to be common.
Both feather and fan palms are not uncommon. Conifers are rep-
resented by a single occurrence of a species of Arthrotaxis — a genus
which in the living flora is confined to the coastal swamps of Tas-
