I9II.] ATLANTIC AND GULF COASTAL PLAIN. 309
the remains of a typical mangrove flora associated with types which
today characterize the tropical and subtropical beach jungle. This
flora includes an Acrostichum closely allied to the modern Acro-
stichnm aureum Linne which is such an abundant fern in the man-
grove and nipa tidal swamps. Other genera represented by fossil
forms are Conocarpus, Dodoiicra, Ficus, Malapanna, Pisonia,
Momisia, Rhizophora, Sapindus, TcrminaUa, and palms of the genus
Thrinax. Botanists familiar with the flora of the torrid zone will
recognize at once that this is a typical strand flora of the tropics
which might almost have been taken bodily from Schimper's classic
Indomalayan Strand Flora, or which can be seen today along the
Florida Keys and in the West Indies.
The plants of this age from ^Mississippi and Arkansas do not
indicate such a well marked ecological group nor quite such high
temperatures as those from Georgia, nevertheless they also are
largely subtropical coastal types and embrace species of Sabal,
Rhamnus, Panax, Ficus, Dryandroides, Persea, Sapindus, etc. One
of the most interesting forms abundantly represented in north-
eastern Arkansas is a citraceous form with alate petioles which I
have named Citropliylluni. Additional genera which are present are
Nectandra and the coniferous genus Arthrotaxis.
In Fig. 2 is shown the approximate position of the shore line
along which the mangrove and the tropical beach flora migrated
northward in the path of northerly flowing tropical ocean currents.
L'ppER Eocene.
No upper Eocene floras are known from the coastal plain but
it is believed that future discovery will reveal their presence when
the area where they are likely to occur shall have been examined
in detail.
Lower Oligocene. -
The Lower Oligocene has yielded no plants except petrified
fragments of the wood of palms and dicotyledons. The sediments
are more or less impure marine limestones, and if marginal deposits
with plants were laid down they were subsequently destroyed by
erosion, or have not yet been discovered.
