18 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
among the members of the mineral kingdom. A long interment fol-
lowed, during which a course of Chemical changes, and new combi-
nations of their vegetable elements have converted them to the min-
eral condition of Coal."
On an earlier page, Buckland referred to the existence of erect
stems in the Coal measures rocks : he was convinced that none of
those recorded, aside from some near Glasgow, could have grown
where they were found.
From this date onward the discussion respecting erect stems,
became increasingly important. The facts and the conclusions are
alike contradictory. It is better to pass by this matter for the pres-
ent and to treat it apart.
Sternberg"' did not accept the hypothesis that coal was formed
from peat. He thought that one should conceive of a forest in the
ancient time, when neither man nor plant-eating animals existed ;
that this forest grew for an indefinitely long period in a warm,
humid climate ; that the offal of buds, leaves, seeds, fruits and
decayed stems accumulated on the ground ; many generations of
plants grew, one on the other, and so a mass, consisting of mold
from wood, fruits, seeds, leaves, with complete examples of smaller
plants, would be produced, whose surface would be covered with
still living vegetation. Conceive now of a cataclysm, when a hurri-
cane casts down the living plants and is followed by a flood, loaded
with sand and mud — thus one has a true picture of the mode in
which the overlying deposits of the stone coal are formed. Cases
are rare where one finds erect stems of trees between two coal beds,
losing themselves above and below in the coals.
The water-cover would hold the mold in place, would bring
about decompositions and changes in the different materials and
would cover the whole with clay and sand. It is unnecessary to
borrow carbon from the air or water in order to get a coal forma-
tion, since in this interval, as well in the dry as in the wet way,
humus and other acids, bitumen and coal itself have been produced,
as occurs even to-day in peat bogs. The material existed in abun-
^ K. Sternberg, '" Versuch einer geognostisch-botanischen Darstellung
der Flora der Vorwclt," Siebenstes und achtes Heft, Prag, 1838, p. 88.
18
