814 BERRY— TERTIARY FLORAS OE THE [April 21,
conditions which prevailed along the Miocene coast in this latitude.
There is considerable evidence of a scant rainfall, that is to say of
less than 30 inches annually but this may well have been merely a
coastal condition. Indirectly the lack of land derived sediments in
the deposits points to the conclusion that relatively dry conditions
extended over wider areas. The mean annual temperature is diffi-
cult to determine. Several of the closely allied modern plants such
as the existing bald cypress do not extend north of Maryland in the
existing flora, while Ficus does not fruit north of Virginia, which
also marks the northern limit of Plaiicra. However, the Miocene
forms enumerated are all different specifically from the existing
members of their respective genera and the conclusion is reached
that the Calvert flora would grow under the climatic conditions pre-
vailing at the present time between Sandy Hook. X. J., and Cape
Henry, Va., and that the mean annual temperature which they indi-
cate is between 50° and 55° F.
Pliocene.
Pliocene floras have been unknown from Xorth America until
last year when deposits of this age with abundant fossil plants were
discovered in southern Alabama. The most remarkable form in
this flora is the fruit of Tvapa, the water nut, which Raimann in
Engler and Prantl segregates from the family Onagraceas to form
the family Hydrocaryaceas. In the existing flora this genus has only
three species of southern Europe and southeastern Asia but it is
well known in the older Tertiary of Xorth America and Europe
and in the later fossil floras oi Europe. Another interesting species
in this Alabama Pliocene flora is a species of Glyptostrobus, a
coniferous genus allied to our bald cypress which is now confined
to eastern Asia, but which appears to have been cosmopolitan in
Tertiary times. Other elements of this flora are abundant live-oaks
( Qucrcus) ; several species of elm (Ulnms) ; abundant twigs, seeds
and cone scales of a species of cypress which is very close to the
existing bald cypress ( Taxodium). Additional elements are species
of Nyssa, Ilicoria, Plaiicra, Bctula, Dioscorea, Primus, Pinus, etc.
This flora is <]uite modern in its facies and is a mixture of swamp
