AN OPTICAL PHENOMENON.
' By FRANCIS E. NIPHER.
{Read April 31,1911.)
In 1871 in a letter to Tyndall, Joseph LeConte gave an interest-
ing discussion of an ocular illusion which had been previously
described. Tyndall communicated it to the Philosophical Magazine
(XLL, p. 266). The phenomenon was observed in the manner here
described :
Pierce a card with a pin. Hold it before the eye at a distance
of four to six inches, looking through the hole at a bright back-
ground. Place the pin in front of the eye with the head central
in the pupil and in close proximity. The pin head will be " seen
in the hole," and in an inverted position.
As was pointed out by LeConte, this is not an optical image but
a shadow. As proof of this he cites the fact that if a series ot
holes are made in the card, a similar appearance of the pin head is
seen in each hole. He adopted the idea that objects are seen erect,
because the nerve fibers at the lowest point on the image see the top
of the object in the direction along which those rays have come.
He also argued that the inverted appearance of this shadow, which
was erect on the retina, was in harmony with this explanation.
The well-known fact that this point in the image is the vertex
of a cone of rays, whose base is the pupil of the eye, and that this
diverging bundle of rays, when traced outward, does not define the
position of any external point, is sufficient explanation of the fact
that this line of reasoning has not been generally adopted. Evi-
dently the fact that there are no rays has also been taken into con-
sideration. It does not seem quite evident that nerve fibers at the
lower point of the image on which ether waves collapse and deliver
their impulses could " see " that these waves had their origin at a
definite point, at the top of an object, at a definite distance from the
refracting media, in w'hich the radii of curvature of these waves
were reversed in direction. And these waves from this point on the
object are involved in a summation of waves from other and adjoin-
ing points.
316
