xvi OBITUARY NOTICES OF MEMBERS DECEASED.
interest in electrical advancement but of the early recognition of his
foremost position at the time, he was appointed U. S. Commissioner
to the Paris Electrical Exposition held in 1881, and an official dele-
gate to the Electrical Congress then held. This was indeed a famous
congress, by which much work of vital interest and importance was
either accomplished or initiated, particularly concerning the nomen-
clature of the several electrical units, and the evaluation of stand-
ards ; a work which has been continued by the subsequent inter-
national chambers of delegates at each of the important Congresses
held since that time; the last being that at St. Louis in 1904.
At the Paris Exposition of 1881, which was the first exposition
to be devoted to electricity solely. Dr. Barker was also made vice-
president of the Jury of Awards, and in recognition of his services
received the decoration of Commander de la Legion D'Honneur,
an honor accorded to but few Americans. He was also a member
of the U. S. Commission at the Electrical Congress held during the
Philadelphia Electrical Exhibition of the Franklin Institute in 1884.
He served also on the Jury of Awards at the World's Columbian
Exposition in 1893.
During his long connection with the University of Pennsylvania,
his services were valued very hightly by his associates ; he was
always helpful in the solution of the problems presented, and
brought to bear a ripe judgment so as to decide upon the course to
be taken in any case with fairness and calmness. His service to
the community w'as none the less valuable. This was evident in his
work while a member of the Board of Public Education, and his
counsel in relation to such matters as water supply, illuminating
gas and other municipal problems was much esteemed. Dr. Barker
was one of the first to point out the fallacies and trickery of the
famous Keely motor scheme, and to denounce it in the public prints.
This scheme was actively exploited in the late seventies in Phila-
delphia. Needless is it to say that all the subsequent history of that
long-lived fraud, and its final wind-up and exposure upon the death
of Keely amply confirmed the entire justice of Dr. Barker's original
denunciation of it.
As an author and writer he was. as in other things, most careful
