GEORGE FREDERICK BARKER. xvii
and conscientious. His text-book on " Elementary Chemistry "
which first appeared in 1870 went through many editions, and was
esteemed as embodying the most advanced thought, presented for
the first time in our language thoroughly and systematically. No
less an authority than Wolcott Gibbs commended the book highly.
Barker's '"Physics, Advanced Course" published in 1892 as one
of the American Science Series, was likewise an embodiment of the
most modern views and met with a hearty reception. The treatment
was mainly from the standpoint of energy and interchanges therein.
and the ether of space was frankly assumed as the fundamental
thing in dealing with all forms of radiation. From his habit of
mind it was to be expected that in his scientific papers we should
also find the results of the latest investigations. He was particular in
giving a comprehensive bibliography of the subject, where it was
possible. Thus, the valuable address delivered by him before the
Chemical Society at Columbia University in March, 1903, is a model
paper. Its subject was " Radio-Activity and Chemistry." and its
great historical value will be understood when it is stated that to it
is appended a bibliography of no less than ninety titles of papers
by the leading investigators.
Some of his earlier papers and addressess assisted to a con-
siderable degree in enforcing the great principles of conservation
and correlation of forces, the discussion of which was carried on
actively in the period between i860 and 1880. Before those years
the ideas of permanence of energy and the importance of energy
interchanges had not received universal recognition or acceptance.
It is now generally recognized that the indestructibility of energy is
a more necessary postulate than the indestructibility of matter.
Dr. Barker's logical mind did not limit itself to the considera-
tion of physical forces merely. He had taken the degree of doctor
of medicine and it was natural that he should be led to consider the
relations between the physical and so-called vital forces. We find
his views expressed in a paper entitled " The Correlation of \^ital
and Physical Forces," published in 1875 by Van Nostrand, and also
in his address as retiring president of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, at the Boston meeting in 1882. This
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC. L. I99*, PRINTED JULY I, I9II.
