xviii OBITUARY NOTICES OF MEMBERS DECEASED.
latter address was entitled " Some Modern Aspects of the Life
Question." He identifies vital force or energy as that stored in the
complex protoplasm under physical and chemical conditions only;
a view which more and more guides the biochemists of today in
their researches. The Association address is an excellent example
of clear logical scientific thinking. In it Dr. Barker drew ably from
his rich fund of knowledge in physics, chemistry, biology, and kin-
dred branches. He claims for science its true position as interpreter
of the things which can be known, but points out clearly the limita-
tions of this knowledge.
The writer may be pardoned making a few quotations :
But the properties of bodies are only the characters by which we differ-
entiate them. Two bodies having the same properties would only be two
portions of the same substance. Because life, therefore, is unlike other proper-
ties of matter, it by no means follows that it is not a property of matter.
No dictum is more absolute in science than the one which predicates prop-
erties upon constitution. To say that this property exhibited by protoplasm,
marvellous and even unique though it be, is not a natural result of the con-
stitution of matter itself, but is due to an unknown entity, a tcrtium quid
which inhabits and controls it, is opposed to all scientific analogy and ex-
perience. To the statement of the vitalist that there is no evidence that life
is a property of matter, we may reply with emphasis that there is not the
slightest proof that it is not.
Again, at the close of the address, speaking of the dependence of all
activity on the earth upon solar radiation :
It is a beautiful conception of science which regards the energy which is
manifested on the earth as having its origin in the sun. Pulsating awhile in
the ether, the molecules of which fill the intervening space, this motion
reaches our earth and communicates its i tremor to the molecules of matter.
Instantly all starts into life. The winds move, the waters rise and fall, the
lightnings flash and the thunders roll, all as subdivisions of this received
power.
And further:
But all this energy is only a transitory possession. As the sunlight gilds
the mountain top and then glances off into space, so this energy touches upon
and beautifies our earth and then speeds on its way. What other worlds it
reaches and vivifies, we may never know. Beyond the veil of the seen,
science may not penetrate. But religion, more hopeful, seeks there for the
new heavens and the new* earth wherein shall be solved the problems of a
higher life.
