GEORGE FREDERICK BARKER. xix
That the taking up of the teaching of physics by Dr. Barker did
not prevent a continued interest in chemical studies is shown by his
serving as the chairman of the sub-section of chemistry of the Amer-
ican Association in 1876, when he deHvered a notable address on
'' The Molecule and the Atom." In this he points out the impor-
tance of considering the energy interchanges in chemical reactions,
a matter which up to that time had been more or less neglected.
Even as late as 1891, he was honored by being made president of
the American Chemical Society, and delivered an address on the
" Borderland between Physics and Chemistry," in which he dealt
with the necessity for distinguishing the fundamental notion of
" mass " from that of " weight." He further showed the rich harvest
to be expected in the application of the kinetic theory to solutions,,
and concluded by a remarkably clear exposition of what was then
known of the nature of electric forces in their relation to chemical
actions. In these later years, it has indeed been the field of physical
chemistry which has yielded an abundant harvest ; the advances in
it have been of the greatest importance to science. Indeed, the
electro-physicist of today has even split the one time ultimate chem-
ical atom into the more fundamental electrons. We must credit Dr.
Barker with a keen appreciation of the directions in which further
scientific advances were to be made.
None the less clear was his prevision of the future of applied
science. In this connection the writer must content himself by
quoting from a brief paper read at the Saratoga Meeting of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1879.
The title of the paper was '' On the Conversion of Mechanical
energy into Heat by Dynamo Electric Machines." It must be
remembered that at the time the paper was read no practical in-
candescent electric lamp had been made, and industrial electric
development had scarcely begun even with the older arc light. The
quotation reads :
The amount of heat actually obtainable from dynamo electric machines
when worked upon a commercial scale, is a question which in the near
future is to become of very considerable commercial importance. That
electric distribution, at least in our larger cities, is ultimately to be the source
of light supply, is already placed beyond a peradventure. But far more than
