GEORGE FREDERICK BARKER. xxi
the great range of subjects about which he had informed himself,
and upon which he was equipped to accompHsh vakiable scientific
work. His alertness of mind, even a few years before his death,
is plainly evident in his later papers on such subjects as radio-
activity and intra-atomic energy in 1903, and before that time in
his discussion of liquefied air, Roentgen rays, wireless telegraphy,
monatomic gases, etc.
From the fact that he survived many of his contemporaries and
associates in scientific work, it was natural that it should have
fallen to his lot to prepare memoirs to some of these to whom he was
most closely drawn. How well the work was done, with what con-
scientious care as to facts, and in what personal estimation he held
these friends, can only be understood by a careful reading of these
memoirs. Coupled with tender remembrances, they show a sincere
admiration for the accomplishments, the discoveries and researches
which he so ably describes. He spared no pains to bring out clearly,
and often in detail, the things for which his friend was best known,
his scientific methods and results, and throughout all this his keen
personal interest and afifectionate regard is manifested. This large-
ness of view and willingness to devote much time and effort to assist
in securing that place in science which his friends' work seemed to
him to deserve, appears to the writer as quite characteristic, and
implies a most generous spirit. Examples of the truth of this
will be found in his memoirs of John William Draper, and of his
son. Dr. Henry Draper, read before the National Academy of Sci-
ences, one in April, 1886, and the other in April, 1888. The elder
Draper died early in 1882, and his son Henry late in the same year.
The splendid achievements of the elder Draper in science and
philosophy are well known, and are most ably dealt with in the
memoir referred to, while Dr. Barker's close personal relations with
Henry Draper gave him excellent opportunities for obtaining the
biographical material which he has incorporated in the memoirs.
Henry Draper devoted himself to optical and astronomical science,
constructing improved instruments and devising new methods. Of
him Dr. Barker writes from the standpoint of a warm personal
friend telling of a most fruitful career too soon closed; a scientist of
