xxii OBITUARY NOTICES OF MEMBERS DECEASED.
the highest type stricken in the midst of his hfe work, with the
brighter promises of his future unfulfilled.
A memoir on the eminent chemist and mineralogist, Dr. F. A.
Genth, was read by him before the American Philosophical Society
in 1901, and also before the National Academy of Sciences. For
the latter society he also prepared an extended memoir of
another noted chemist, Matthew Carey Lea ; in which is given a
careful, critical resume of Lea's remarkable investigations and dis-
coveries, chiefly in chemistry, optics and photography. ,
Dr. Barker was born July 14, 1835, at Charlestown, Mass., and
attended school there, afterwards going to Berwick and Yarmouth
academies in Maine, and to Lawrence Academy in Groton, Mass.
When about sixteen he entered as apprentice the establishment of
J. M. Wightman in Boston, a maker of philosophical instruments,
and remained there five years. This apprentice period must have
given a training very valuable to one who was afterward to so freely
use scientific apparatus. After taking the degree of Bachelor of
Philosophy at the Sheffield Scientific School, where he was also
assistant to Professor Silliman, he entered the Harvard Medical
School as a student and assistant in chemistry.
From this time his career as a science teacher and lecturer was
continued with but little interruption. He received the degree of
Doctor of Medicine from the Albany Medical College in 1863. having
completed his medical course there while Acting Professor of Chem-
istry in the school. In 1864 he served as professor of natural sci-
ences in the Western University of Pennsylvania, soon thereafter
going to Yale as demonstrator in the medical department, where in
1867 he was appointed Professor of Physiological Chemistry and
Toxicology, a chair which he held for six years, when he was
appointed Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania.
Beginning in 1873 he continued this work as head of the department
for twenty-seven years, becoming Professor Emeritus in 1900.
Before coming to Philadelphia he had acted as State Chemist in
Connecticut, giving testimony in some noted cases of poisoning. He
was also at times engaged as expert in patent cases, concerning
electric lighting, telephones, batteries and chemical processes.
