20 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
had found almost one hundred coal beds in the South Wales coal-
field and. with rare exceptions, each overlies a clay bed from six
inches to ten feet thick. The clay varies much in composition but
it is a persistent deposit, so that coal beds which have thinned out in
the workings have been found again by following the clay. Ordi-
narily. Stigmaria occurs abundantly in the clay and Logan thinks
that plant was the source of most of the coal.
Soon after the field work of the Virginia and Pennsylvania sur-
veys was completed, H. D. Rogers''" gathered the salient facts bear-
ing upon the origin of coal beds and presented them in a paper
which has become classical. It bears the impress of the time, but
it was based on broad observations by the author and his equally
celebrated brother, William B. Rogers, aided by a corps of able
assistants ; the studies, lasting six years, were in detail for an area
of somewhat more than 20,000 square miles, but in addition less
detailed studies had been made in Ohio and Kentucky, so that the
region under consideration was not far from 40,000 square miles.
The discussion was the first serious attempt to account for the origin
of the Coal Measures, which was based on actual study of a vast
area.
At the outset, Rogers pronounced against any theory of delta
formation, as according to his belief the Appalachian ocean deep-
ened toward the west and northwest. ^^ The deposits are traceable
coastwise for 900 miles, so that it seems improbable that fluviatile
currents could have assembled them.
The sandstones decrease in thickness and coarseness as they re-
cede from the ancient shoreline at the east ; the shales increase in
that direction for a time and then decrease, while the limestones,
wholly wanting near the shore line, increase in thickness and purity
so as to become imposing before the Ohio River has been reached.
The animal remains found in the limestones are marine. There
'° H. D. Rogers, "An Inquiry into the Origin of the Appalachian Coal
Strata, Bituminous and Anthracitic," Reps, of Amer. Assoc, of Geologists and
Naturalists, Boston. 1843, pp. 434, 459, 463-467.
^' It should be noted here that wlicn Rogers wrote the conditions on the
west side of the Appalacliian l)asin were not known; but does not affect the
general argument.
20
