322 COMSTOCK— THE MODERN THEORY [April 22,
phenomena in which the less famiHar actions of the outside world
were expressed in terms of the intimate and much more familiar
workings of the human mind. " Nature abhors a vacuum," and like
expressions, show the type.
The progress of science exhibits countless examples of the
second type of explanation, for, wherever two or more concepts are
merged into a profounder synthesis, there we have an expression in
terms of something more jundamcntal. When, for instance, it is
said that the phenomena of tidal action are caused by the gravita-
tional attraction of the moon, it is stated merely that this action is
really one with countless other phenomena which, although dis-
similar on the surface, merge with it into the profounder synthesis
known as the law of gravitation.
It is important also to remember in this connection, that /;; this
process of explanation we always have left the one concept into
which the many have merged, so that as time goes on the alterna-
tives of explanation grow fewer and fewer, and in the end — if we
can imagine an end — there is no explanation, because there is no
more fundamental fact.
You will pardon me, I am sure, if I say one word more with
reference to this question of ultimate explanation.
We have all heard people say, " Isn't it wonderful that so much
is known about electricity, and yet no one knows what electricity
\s !" Now, doubtless the observation has some meaning, but cer-
tainly not as much as it seems to have; for, after all, what do they
mean by " what electricity is " ? Do they expect the announcement
some day that electricity is a liquid similar to water, or a gas similar
to air?
It is becoming more and more probable that electricity is the
chief constituent of the atoms themselves, and an electron, which is
a particle of electricity, if anything is, is certainly less than a ten-
thousandth the size of one of the atoms in a water molecule. There-
fore after the " Is^' following the word " electricity," there is noth-
ing to put which is already familiar, and when the profounder con-
cept does come, it will be extremely fundamental, but it will cause
the layman no thrill of long-anticipated disclosure.
A special type of critical attitude is necessary in dealing with
