191 1.] OF ELECTRICITY AND MATTER. 323
fundamental physical concepts and it is an attitude which we seldom
assume, so that these remarks have been necessary to introduce
properly the three fundamental realities which modern physical
theory now contemplates, namely: the atom, the electron, and that
mysterious but perhaps even more fundamental entity known as
energy.
A few years ago I would have mentioned also the ether, but I
am a little reluctant to do so now. Xot that there has been a sudden
revolution in the realm of thought, resulting in the complete over-
throw of the old regime, but rather that development has been such
as to render the concept of an ether less and less impressive — one
might say — and less and less important. Changes of opinion in
such matters are, it seems to me, partly questions of emphasis, and
radiant energy in all its nakedness is now usurping much that the
ether has long stood for.
Of course, the loss, or rather the dimness, of the ether concept
implies a certain loss of concreteness ; but, as has been said, con-
creteness in new concepts, founded as it is on familiarity, is a
secondary virtue and is of far less importance than the value of a
concept in furthering the great process of induction which leads us
to more and more general truths.
Although the concept of the ether is slowly dimming, the concept
of the atom is becoming more and more definite and vivid. The
study of the scintillations caused by radium rays and the work of
Rutherford in counting the alpha particles give us, for the first time
in the history of physics, definite observable results which apparently
can only be due to the action of single atoms, and which therefore
furnish proof beyond reasonable doubt that the atom and molecule
are names of actual realities, and are not merely two prominent
words in the statement of a useful hypothesis.
The kinetic theory of matter, carrying with it the concept of
temperature as violence of atomic vibration, has also been strength-
ened enormously by the work of Perrin and Einstein on the Brown-
ian movement. They find that microscopic particles in solutions
have a perpetual motion in close agreement with the kinetic theory.
Indeed, they act in all ways like big molecules, obeying the kinetic
laws deducible from mechanics. Their observable agitation is part
