32 i COMSTOCK— THE MODERN THEORY [-Mmi 22,
of the general vibratory motion which (Hstinguishes a hot body from
a cold one.
The electron, too, is now well within what we might call " the
exclusive circle of the truly real." This minute charged body has
by manv researches, among them the recent one of ^Slillikan, been
shown to be a definite reality, present in all matter and entirely or
largely responsible for all the phenomena we know as electrical.
The other fundamental entity, energy, is also, if I may be allowed
the phrase, " mysteriously real." Radiant energy leaves the sun
eight minutes before it reaches the earth, and must, therefore, exist
during that time in the space between, dissociated from ordinary
matter. When it finally strikes some object and is absorbed, it gives
the object a thrust — that is, communicates momentum to it, as a
bullet would do — and at the same time, of course, it increases the
total energy of the body. In the same way, a body radiating energy
recoils during the emission in a way similar to a gun.
All this is remarkably like the action of ordinary matter. We
can, however, say even more. There is very good reason for be-
lieving that, were it possible to shut up a large amount of radiant
energy in a hollow box, the inner surfaces of which were perfectly
reflecting, so that the rays would be reflected back and forth indefi-
nitely, we would find this confined energy to possess both mass and
weight. Not many decades ago such an idea would have seemed
absurd, l)ut it is hard now to avoid the conclusion that such would
be the case.
I can do no better now than to descril)e in a few words the pic-
ture which we have today of the ultimate structure of matter. A
piece of matter is composed of particles called atoms, which, by
uniting in groups in various ways, form the characteristic aggre-
gates which we know as molecules. There are about one hundred
different kinds of atoms, varving in relative weiglits from one to 240,
and in relative volumes from one to about 16. The approximate
diameter of an atom is one one-hundred-millionth of a centimeter.
These atoms are in ceaseless motion to and fro, the energy of
this motion determining what we call the temperature of the body.
Within the atoms and in the spaces between them are large numbers
of very much smaller particles known as electrons. They each
