326 COMSTOCK— THE MODERN THEORY [April 22,
would be stored up throughout the whole mass, a great deal of it
near the center, but an appreciable amount even out at the very
limits of the block. From the present point of view, we think more
about the energy and less about the ether, but the general effect is
the same.
Let us call this energy located in the space surrounding an
electric charge " bound energy," to distinguish it from the closely
similar type of self-propagating energy which can also exist in
space and to which we apply the term " radiant," and let us then
ask what properties, if any, this bound energy gives to the body
which it surrounds.
I stated before that radiant energy, when it struck a body, com-
municated momentum to it in the same general way as a material
body, say a flying bullet, would do. The radiant energy thus acts
as if it had mass, and the question now is, "May the 'bound
energy ' surrounding our charged sphere also be considered to
possess mass?" We may answer this question /;; flic affirmative,
for this bound energy is electric energy, and, thanks to the great
founders of electrical science, we know the laws of electric action
pretty completely.
Applying these well-known laws we find that when our charged
sphere is moved, it acts like a current of elecricity and sets up a
magnetic field about it, and the formation of this field acts, by the
well-known laws of induction, to retard the motion of the charge.
Thus the setting in motion of the sphere is made more difficult by
reason of its charge, an eft'ect which is equivalent to saying that
the sphere has added mass.
If this were all, we might say that the added charge of elec-
tricity had mass, so that the mass increment is on the surface of
the sphere where the charge is known to reside. This is not all,
however, for by letting the sphere expand we can decrease the
energy in the space about it without changing the magnitude of its
charge ; and we find, by further simple application of well-known
electrical laws, that the new mass will change exactly as the energy
changes. If the new mass had been proportional to the charge, it
would remain constant with it instead of changing with the energy.
Thus what is known as the electromagnetic mass of the sphere is
