ipii.] OF ELECTRICITY AND MATTER. 327
proportional to its energy. I was able to show, several years ago,
that, with certain limitations, this same result is true for any electric
system.
It may be said, then, to follow from what might be called ele-
mentary electromagnetic principles, that the electromagnetic mass of
an electric system is proportional to its electric energy. Now
Hasenhorl, at Plancks's suggestion, I believe, had already shown
that a similar result applied to radiant energy properly speaking;
for he found that from known laws of radiation it followed that a
hollow box, like that mentioned earlier, with perfectly reflecting
walls, would, when filled with radiant energy, act as if it had added
mass. That is, the pressure of radiation would be so changed by the
increasing velocity of the box as to oppose the force causing this
increase, and this inertia, this added mass, he found would be
proportional to the amount of energy present. My proportionality
constant agrees with his. Lewis, from a totally different point of
view, has reached a similar conclusion.
It is, as you know, one of the profoundest generalizations in
modern physics that light and other forms of radiant energy are in
reality all forms of electromagnetic energy. Hasenhorl's results,
therefore, that confined radiant energy possesses mass, combined
with the result obtained in connection with the bound energy sur-
rounding electric charges, gives us the general result that all elec-
tromagnetic energy, whether bound or radiant, possesses mass, and
this mass is proportional to the quantity of energy present.
You see that the concept of energy, although in some ways very
illusive, is getting singularly definite and persistent. Since we see
that electric mass is proportional to electric energy, the question
naturally arises : How much of the mass of the electron is due to
the electric energy surrounding its relatively enormous charge, and
how much is the "ordinary mechanical mass" of its body proper?
We have a means of distinguishing between the two masses, for
the electric mass does not remain constant when the velocity of the
charge becomes great. Electrical laws tell us that it increases, very
slowly at first, then more rapidly, and that as the velocity of light
is approached it becomes very great. Of course, in ordinary me-
