19"-] STEVENSON— FORMATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 21
were many alternate periods of movement and of total or compara-
tive rest. Limestones indicate periods of comparative tranquillity.
Some of the coal beds are of great extent. The Pittsburgh bed had
been traced around an area of 14,000 square miles and there are
isolated basins holding that bed far southeast from the main area,
so that the Pittsburgh coal must have covered a surface of not less
30,000 square miles. The uniformity in thickness and the absence
of abrupt variations are as remarkable as the area. These features
" seem strongly adverse to the theory which ascribes the formation
of such deposits to any species of drifting action."
The alternation of laminae of bright and dull coal ; the lenticular
form of the bright layers ; the predominance of mineral charcoal in
the dull laminae seem to be almost conclusive arguments in favor of
belief that the vegetable matter grew where it was deposited. He
finds it difficult to understand why the coal does not consist principal-
ly of the larger parts of trees if any drifting agency brought the
materials together. The leaves and smaller parts would be detached
before the trunks could become waterlogged.
But the beds have subordinate divisions, coal, clay, impure coal,
so persistent in great areas that miners can recognize their bed at
great distance from their own locality ; only one method of accumu-
lation can explain this. " I cannot conceive any state of the surface,
but that in which the margin of the sea was occupied by vast marine
savannahs of some peat-creating plant, growing half immersed on a
perfectly horizontal plain, and this fringed and interspersed with
forests of trees, shedding their offal of leaves upon the marsh. Such
are the only circumstances, under which I can imagine that these
regularly parallel, thin and widely extended sheets of carbonaceous
matter could have been accumulated." The purity of the coal is
inconsistent with any notion of drifting of the vegetable matter,
"which according to any conceivable mode of transportation, would
be accompanied by a large amount of earthy matter, such as abounds
in all delta deposits and even mingles with the wood as in the raft
of the Atchafalaya."
The underclay, irregular in structure, accompanies nearly every
coal bed in the Appalachian basin and usually contains Stiguiaria
21
