191 1.] OF ELECTRICITY AND MATTER. 331
across it, every one of them has given negative results, and has
thus shown that the relative parts of the system hear the same rela-
tion to each other, no matter zvhat the direction of motion is.
It is like finding that an object made up of metal and glass had
no strains set up in it when heated, a result which could only be
attained if the metal and glass had the same coefficient of expansion.
What are we to conclude in the case before us? There seems
to be no alternative. \\'e already have seen that electrons are
among the fundamental constituents of all atoms ; we have seen that
radiant energy is electromagnetic and that such energy permeates all
matter. We have seen that energ}' resembles matter in possessing
mass, and that, therefore, to the same degree, matter resembles
energ}\ The necessary conclusion seems to be that all physical phe-
nomena obex the same general lazes of zehich the knozcn electro-
magnetic lazes are as yet the completest expression.
And now to what have we committed ourselves by this con-
clusion as regards changes due to motion? ^Merely this: that all
real systems being ultimately " electromagnetic " in the above sense,
undergo certain changes when set in motion, but these changes are
such as to leave all parts bearing the same relation to each other.
Thus since the knowledge of an observer travelling with the system
is only relative, he is not able to detect such absolute changes, just
as we are not able to detect the motion of the earth. The changes
in his svstem would be noticeable to an observer whose instruments
did not move, but cannot be detected by moving instruments.
The kind of change which wq have said is produced in a system
by setting it in motion has one property which is important and pro-
foundly significant. It, is that the moving observer sees precisely
the same change in stationary systems which he is passing as the
stationary observer sees in the moving system ; so that not only can
the moving observer not detect his motion by means of his instru-
ments, but the tzi'o obserz'ers together, if their memory fail, can by
no means tell which is moving. There is, in other words, a very
complete symmetry with regard to what the two observers can
actually find out about their systems, although we called one of them
stationary in the beginning.
Because of this complete symmetry the most conservative among
