332 COMSTOCK— ELECTRICITY AND MATTER. [April 22,
us will admit that the concept of absolute motion need not be used
Z'ery often, at least, in the science of the future; if the foregoing-
views are true ones. The modern group of conceptions known as
the " Principle of Relativity " teaches that the idea of absolute
motion is entirely superfluous, and that the time honored concepts of
space and time, as independent of all motions, do not accurately fit
the real universe and should be modified.
^Modified in what way? Real time is measured by real clocks
and real distance is measured by real rigid bodies, and we find an
unexpected discord between moving clocks and stationary clocks,
and between moving rods and stationary ones. We have, therefore,
no possible use for what might be called " universal time." We
might form a vague concept of a " cosmic second " pervading the
universe, but we could do nothing with it, and it would therefore
be entirely artificial. Whenever we wished to think about an actual
moving object and wished to measure some vibration frequency on
it, let us say, we would have to use some actual clock-beat or other
periodic phenomenon as a unit. So that the actual universe has us
hopelessly in its grasp, and our concepts of space and time to be
valuable must be in harmony with the habits of real things.
The principle of relativity, therefore, makes changes in the
fundamental concepts of space and time for moving systems ; the
second in a moving system is longer, the meter, in the direction of
motion, shorter, than in stationary systems. The units then are in
harmony with real happenings in such systems, and this makes it
possible to introduce the last great synthesis of modern theory, the
deeper unity of physical law under the dominance of what we have
known as electromagnetic principles ; and this brings us one step
nearer to the last, ultimate generalization which is the unattainable
ideal of science.
Mas.sachusetts Institute of Technology,
April 20, 1911.
