191 1.] BOLTWOOD— RADIOACTIVITY. 335
by the impact of a given number of alpha particles, the charge car-
ried by each particle could be readily determined. This was found
to be equal to 9.3 X lo"^'' electrostatic units. It was then shown in
an ingenious manner that this charge was twice that carried bv an
electron or by a hydrogen ion, although preceding determinations of
the latter magnitude had indicated that its value was somewhat less
than one half of 9.3 X io~^'^. The recent determinations made by Mil-
likam of the charge on an ion have shown, however, that 4.65 X iq-^"
is not far from correct and have confirmed the conclusion reached
by Rutherford and Geiger that the charge on an alpha particle is
equal to twice the unit charge of the hydrogen atom in electrolysis.
\\'ith this modification, the ratio of the charge to the mass of an
alpha particle indicates that the mass is equivalent to an atomic
weight of four. This corresponds to the mass of an atom of the
gaseous element helium.
The final proof of the intimate connection of the alpha particle
with the helium atom was supplied by Rutherford and Rovds who
proved by spectroscopic methods that readily detectible amounts of
helium could always be obtained when large numbers of alpha par-
ticles were allowed to penetrate through a thin glass wall into a
highly evacuated receptacle or into a screen of lead, from which the
helium was ultimately released by fusion of the metal.
It is a significant fact that although the alpha particles from the
different types of radioactive matter appear to be all of a similar
nature and to consist of atoms of helium bearing a double, positive
charge, the velocities at which they are ejected are dift'erent for the
dift'erent radioactive substances. The velocity of the particles emitted
by the atoms of any one type of matter undergoing transformation
is, however, always the same and is a characteristic constant for that
particular radio-element. Attention was first called to this impor-
tant relation by Bragg and Kleeman and it is undoubtedly significant
in its bearing on the constitution of the radio-atoms. The observed
velocities of the particles appear to lie between the limits of 1.5 X 10^
and 2.25 X 10^ centimeters per second.
Owing to their high velocities the alpha particles are capable of
passing through thin layers of ordinary matter, and can penetrate
into air at atmospheric pressure for distances of from somewhat less
