336 BOLTWOOD— RADIOACTIVITY. [Apru 22,
than three to about eight centimeters. They produce phosphores-
cence and chemical action in substances on which they impinge and
strongly ionize gases through which they pass.
Through measurements of their detiection in electric and magnetic
fields the beta rays emitted by radioactive substances have been shown
to consist of negatively electrified particles or electrons with an
apparent mass about one eighteen-hundredth that of the hydrogen
atom. The velocity with which they are projected is considerably
higher than that of the alpha particles and in some cases exceeds nine
tenths the velocity of light. They are capable of penetrating through
moderate thicknesses of ordinary matter and for considerable dis-
tances in air. They cause phosphorescence and chemical action in
substances on which they fall and produce ions in gases through
which they pass.
Although the beta particles emitted by the difl:'erent t}pes of
radioactive matter are in all respects identical in nature, they exhibit
the same peculiarities with respect to the velocities with which they
are initially projected that has been observed in the case of the alpha
rays. The velocity of the beta rays from any given radio-element
is the same within certain limits for every disintegrating atom of that
element, but is difi:'erent from the velocity of the rays emitted by
other elements. The velocity of the beta rays is therefore charac-
teristic for each of the substances which give rise to this t}pe of
radiation and has undoubtedly a significant bearing on the constitu-
tion of the radio-atoms. It appears probable from some recent
experiments performed by Halin and von Be_\er, in which a magnetic
spectrum of the beta rays emitted by certain radioactive substances
was obtained, that the transformation of some of the radio-atoms is
accompanied by the expulsion of a series of beta particles of differ-
ent velocities. These results arc very suggestive of the model atom
devised by Sir J- J- Thomson in which the atom was assumed to be
built up of concentric shells of electrons revolving with different
velocities in circular orbits. It would seem quite possible that in
such a system a rearrangement of the parts might result in the expul-
sion of electrons from several layers simultaneously.
The third type of radiation associated with radioactive transfor-
mations, known as the gamma rays, is similar to the X-rays and is
I
