191 1.] BOLTW'OOD— RADIOACTIVITY. 337
supposed to consist of electromagnetic pulses in the ether. A rather
ingenious corpuscular theory as to the nature of these rays has been
proposed by Bragg, but has not met with general acceptance owing
to the fact that it appears to be not altogether in accord with the
experimental evidence.
The origin of gamma rays seems to be very intimately connected
with the emission of beta particles, for the two types of radiation
have been observed to appear simultaneously and bear a certain defi-
nite relation to one another. A\'hen the expelled beta particle has a
high velocity the gamma ray is of a very penetrating character, while
if the velocity of the beta particle is low the gamma ray emitted has
but little power of penetrating ordinary matter.
The disintegration of the radio-elements takes place according
to a verv simple law and the number of atoms of any radio-element
which undergo transformation in the unit time is a definite propor-
tion of the total number of atoms initially present. The number
of atoms A' remaining unchanged after any time t is given by
A'^Xoc'^*, where No is the initial number of atoms and A is the
fraction undergoing transformation in the unit of time. This frac-
tion has a fixed and invariable value for each separate radio-element
and for this reason is known as the constant of cluing c for the ele-
ment in question. It is a relatively simple matter to determine the
period of time required under these conditions for exactly half of
any given quantity of a radio-element to be converted into other
substances and this time is known as tlic half zxiluc period. The
rate of change and the corresponding half value period is a definite
characteristic for each of the radio-elements but is very different for
the dift'erent radioactive substances. The half-value period of ura-
nium, for example, is over five billion years while the half-value
period of certain other radio-elements is only a few seconds.
Although the disintegration of some of the radio-elements has
been examined over wide extremes of temperature and pressure, and
under various other special conditions which would greatly influence
the course of ordinary chemical reactions, it has not been found pos-
sible to definitely alter or effect the rate at which transformation
takes place to the slightest measurable degree. It is therefore evident
PROC. AMER. PHTL. SOC., L. 200 V, PRINTED JULY 3I, I9II.
