338 BOLTWOOD— RADIOACTIVITY. [April 22,
that the disintegration of the radio-active substances is of a wholly
different character from the ordinary chemical changes. This is
exactly what would be expected if the radioactive processes occur
within the atoms themselves, for, in accordance with our general
theories, chemical forces appear to be restricted in their action to the
exterior of the atomic systems only.
We have thus far considered only the laws which govern the
transformation of radioactive matter and the radiations which ac-
company the disintegration of the atoms ; let us now turn our atten-
tion to the substances themselves. Investigation has brought to light
three main groups of radioactive elements — the uranium series, the
thorium series and the alkali metals. Of the last mentioned our
knowledge is not very extensive. A type of beta radiation appears
to be emitted by the salts of potassium and rubidium but their title
to be considered as true radio-elements is not as yet entirely clear.
The uranium series, in addition to the parent substance, contains
ten products which may be properly considered as in the main line
of descent. These are uranium X, ionium, radium, radium emana-
tion, radium A, radium B, radium C, radium D, radium E and radium
F. Each of these products exhibits a characteristic chemical beha-
vior which is different from that of the parent element uranium. The
half value period of uranium has already been mentioned as exceed-
ing five billions of years and the disintegration of its atoms is accom-
panied by the expulsion of alpha particles. Uranium X, ionium and
radium are solids, the two first having chemical properties similar to
thorium, while radium has those of an alkali earth and particularly
resembles barium. Uranium X has a half value period of about
twenty-four days, and it emits only beta and gamma rays. The rate
of disintegration of ionium is not as yet know^n with any degree of
accuracy but it is certainly a relatively stable product and is trans-
formed but slowly. Its half value period is probably of the order of
ten thousand years. It emits alpha rays only. The half value period
of radium is approximately two thousand years. Rutherford and
Geiger have deduced a somewhat lower value, namely 1,760 years,
as a result of their experiments, but this value is probably an under
estimate, as w'ill be explained later in this paper. Radium emits
alpha rays and probably very low velocity beta rays also. The
