191 1] BOLTWOOD— RADIOACTIVITY. 341
Its first product, mesothorium i. is another example of a rayless
change Hke radium D and actinium. Owing to the fact that large
quantities of monazite are commercially treated for the extraction
of thorium used in the manufacture of incandescent gas mantles and
that the technical separation and isolation of mesothorium appears
to be an economic possibility, there is some prospect that mesothorium
may become a competitor of radium for scientific and therapeutic
uses. Its life compared with radium is relatively short, however,
its half value period being 5^ years, but this in itself is not neces-
sarily a serious disadvantage. The chemical properties of meso-
thorium are similar to those of radium and barium.
The fifth product in the thorium series is known as the thorium
emanation and is a chemically inert gas like the raditmi and actinium
emanations. The remaining four products constitute the tJwriiiiii
actk'c deposit.
The combined uranium and thorium series includes 28 radio-
elements, of which only the two parent elements were known before
the development of radioactive methods. Radioactivity has there-
fore added a considerable quota to the known types of matter.
An interesting relation which is met in the study of radioactive
change is the so-called radioacfiz'c equilibrium. If a relatively long-
lived radio-element A is the parent of a less stable product B, and
if A is initially entirely freed from B, then a certain definite fraction
of the atoms of A will undergo transformation each second to form
atoms of the product B. The number of atoms of B produced from
A in this manner each second will be essentially constant and the
amount of B will increase. But the atoms of B also undergo trans-
formation at a constant rate and, as the C|uantity of B increases, a
continually increasing number of its atoms will be transformed in
the unit of time. A point will finally be reached where the number
of atoms of B which disintegrate in any given time will be exactly
equal to the number of atoms of B formed from A in the same
interval. The relative amounts of A and B will then remain con-
stant and the conditions can be expressed by the equation
where P is the number of atoms of A and A^ its constant of change,
