342 BOLTWOOD— RADIOACTIVITY. [April 22,
and Q is the number of atoms of B and A. the constant of change of
the product B. Under these conditions the substances A and B are
said to be in equilibritim with one another. The general mathemat-
ical theory of successive changes of this kind has been developed by
Rutherford.
In the discussion of the characteristics of the alpha rays it has
been pointed out that the evidence supplied by the determination of
the ratio of the charge to the mass of these particles indicates that
their nature is the same in all cases. Let us consider briefly the
additional facts which are in support of this conclusion.
The presence of considerable proportions of helium in crystalline
minerals containing m-anium and thorium has been very frequently
noticed. It was found by Ramsay and Soddy in 1903 that helium
could be detected in the residual gas set free when a specimen of
crystalline radium bromide was dissolved in water, and shortly after
this they showed that the spectrum of helium appeared with time in
a tube which initially contained only radium emanation. Debierne
found that helium was produced by a strong preparation of actinium,
and conclusive proof has also been obtained by Strutt and by Soddy
that helium results from the disintegration of both thorium and
uranium.
During the past year I was able to experimentally demonstrate
the production of helium by ionium, and some earlier experiments
carried out by Professor Rutherford and myself showed that helium
appeared during the disintegration of polonium also. The latter
conclusion has since been confirmed b_\- the work of Mme. Curie and
Debierne.
The data supphed by the counting experiments of Rutherford
and Geiger afford a basis for the calculation of a number of impor-
tant physical (luantitics, such as the mass of the hydrogen atom, the
number of atoms in one gram of h_\dr()gen and the number of mole-
cules per cubic centimeter of any gas at standard pressure and tem-
perature. In a similar matter Rutherford and Geiger have calcu-
lated the amount of helium produced per }ear by one gram of radium
containing equilibrium amounts of its three alpha ray products, the
emanation, radium A and radium C. The number obtained in this
way was 158 cubic millimeters of helium per year per gram of
