I9II-] BOLTWOOD— RADIOACTIVITY. 343
radium. ^Measurements of the rate of production of helium by a
radium salt have been carried out by Sir James Dewar and have
given results somewhat in excess of this, namely 182 and 169 cubic
millimeters. As a confirmation of the accuracy of Rutherford and
Geiger's values, however, it may be stated that an investigation of
the production of helium by radium made last year by Professor
Rutherford and myself gave results in excellent agreement with the
calculated value. An account of these experiments will be published
shortly.
In connection with these results there is, however, one rather
important point which should be mentioned. This is the fact that
tne rate of production of helium and the half value period of radium
as calculated by Rutherford and Geiger from the results of their
counting experiments, are directly dependent of the purity of the
salt of radium used as a standard in their measurements. They
assumed that the material of their radium standard was pure anhy-
drous radium bromide containing 58.5 per cent, of radium. If this
was not the case and the material used as their standard contains
less than the theoretical amount of radium, their calculation of the
number of alpha particles emitted per gram of radium and the rate
of production of helium is too low, and their estimate of the half
value period of radium is too high. If, on the other hand, the mate-
rial of their standard consists in part of some other compound of
radium containing a higher proportion of this element than is con-
tained in the bromide, their value for the number of alpha particles
emitted and the rate of production of helium is too high and their
calculated rate of disintegration of radium is too low.
There are certain reasons which lead me to believe that the
radium standard used by Rutherford and Geiger actually contains a
higher proportion of the element radium than they have assumed in
their calculation, and that the true half value period of radium is
greater than 1,760 years as they have deduced it. In 1908 I pub-
lished an account of some experiments on the growth of radium in
ionium preparations, which pointed to two thousand years as the
half-value period of the former. This estimate was quite indepen-
dent of any radium standard and I am of the opinion that it is nearer
the true value than is the estimate made by Rutherford and Geiger.
