344 BOLTW'OOD— RADIOACTIVITY. [April 22,
The point can be definitely settled, however, by a comparison of
Rutherford's standard with a standard of indisputable purity. Such
a standard is in prospect in the not distant future and its prepara-
tion has been undertaken by ]Mme. Curie on behalf of the Interna-
tional Radium Standards Committee appointed at the recent Radio-
logical Congress in Brussels.
A very interesting action which has been observed to accompany
radioactive transformations is known as the recoil plicnouicnon.
When a plate bearing a thin layer of very active material is placed
in close proximity of another plate which is inactive, a portion of
the active matter becomes detached from the film and is deposited on
the surface of the second plate.
The efifect is increased considerably if the receiving plate is
charged negatively with respect to the plate bearing the active coat-
ing. This action is apparently due to the fact that, when the alpha
or beta rays are expelled at a high velocity from a radio-atom under-
going transformation, the reaction on the residual atom causes this
to move in the opposite direction with sufficient force to detach it
from the plate. The action is analogous to the recoil of a rifle
attending the expulsion of a high velocity bullet. When, for exam-
ple, the active coating on the first plate consists of radium A then
the active matter received on the second plate is composed almost
exclusively of radium B ; and when the film consists of radium B the
material thrown ofif is for the most part radium C. This and other
similar effects which have been noted are all of such a nature as to
suggest that the explanation proposed for this interesting phenom-
enon is the correct one. The effect of the electric field indicates that
in some way these " rest atoms " acquire positive electric charges.
From the standpoint of the disintegration theory, it is evident,
when we consider the three principal grouj^s of radioactive sub-
stances, the uranium-radium group, the actinium group, and the
thorium group, that the radioactive phenomena exhibited by the
atoms abruptly disappear after they have passed through a certain
series of transformations, which terminates with radium F in one
instance, with actinium C in another and with thorium D in the
third. The apparent explanation of this circumstance would seem
to be, that, following the last active change, the residual atomic
