191 1-] BOLTWOOD— RADIOACTIVITY. 345
nucleus finally attains a permanently stable form which undergoes
no further alterations. If such is indeed the case, then we might
expect that these ultimate end products of radioactive decay would
accumulate in old radioactive minerals where the process of trans-
formation has been proceeding for long geological periods. This
line of reasoning has enabled us to identify at least one of these
products and that is, in all probability, the one following radium F.
The residual atom in this case appears to be no other than the atom
of ordinary lead. There are, moreover, certain theoretical argu-
ments which point to the same conclusion. The accepted atomic
weight of uranium is 238.5. It has been found that two alpha par-
ticles are emitted during its transformation and one by the succeed-
ing product, ionium. This would correspond to the loss of three
alpha particles or helium atoms with an atomic weight of four or a
total of twelve units. Two hundred and thirty-eight and one half
less twelve give two hundred and twenty-six and one half for the
atomic weight of radium, which corresponds to the value obtained
in the actual determination of the atomic weight of this element
by ]\Ime. Curie. The transformations of the atoms of radium, the
emanation, radium A, radium C and radium F are each accompanied
by the expulsion of another alpha particle, making five in all. Five
times four is twenty and two hundred and twenty-six and one half
less twenty is two hundred and six and one half. The latter number
is sufficiently near to two hundred and seven and one tenth, the most
recently determined atomic weight of lead, to support the conclusion
that lead is the ultimate disintegration product of radium. It has
not yet been possible to determine the end products of the actinium
or the thorium series but they will undoubtedly be identified among
the various elements occurring in small proportions in the older ura-
nium and thorium minerals.
Before completing this necessarily brief resume of the present
status of the study of radioactive phenomena it is necessary to make
some reference to the series of papers published by Sir William
Ramsay associated with A. T. Cameron and F. L. Usher. These
papers, which deal with the action of radium emanation on various
other substances, suggest the occurrence of certain changes, which
if they really took place would be of fundamental importance to the
