348 RICHARDSON— DYNAMICAL EFFECTS OF [April 22,
removed. There will be no transportation of electrons and that is
what, on the electron theory, constitutes an electric current. The
electric field across the slab is, nevertheless, dift'erent from what
it would be if the material were not present. The difference be-
tween dift'erent insulating materials in this respect depends solely
on the comparative ease of displacement of the electrons they con-
tain. The specific inductive capacity of dielectrics, which, you will
remember, was discovered by Cavendish and Faraday, is, in fact, a
measure of the product of the number of electrons in unit volume
of the material b_\- the average displacement which they undergo in
unit field.
The behavior of the second kind of material is quite dift'erent.
Even in the absence of the electric field, the so-called free electrons
are moving about in it in an irregular manner in all directions. The
effect of an external field is to superpose on the irregular motion a
definite drift, on the average, in the direction of the current. This
drift of the electrons involves traiisportafion of electricity and there-
fore implies the existence of an electric current.
All the laws which regulate the transference of electricity across
conductors, such as, for example, Ohm's Law, which states that the
current is proportional to the applied electromotive force, and Joule's
Law, which states that the rate of production of heat by a current
is equal to the product of the resistance of the circuit by the square
of the current, follow at once from this simple hypothesis. It is not
necessary to suppose that all the electrons in the material are present
in the free condition ; some of them may be, and in all probability
the majority are, in a state of equilibrium similar to that which occurs
in insulators. All that is necessary is that some of the electrons
should be able to move without restraint. When the other conditions
are the same the magnitude of the current which a given material
will transport is proportional to the number of carriers available;
that is, to the number of free electrons per unit volume.
It is in the explanation of the relation between the conductivity
of substances for electricit}- and for heat that the electron theory
has scored one of its most notable triumphs. Everybody knows that
the best conductors for electricity are also the best conductors for
heat. It is not so generally known how very close the relationship
