'9II-] AGGREGATES OF ELECTRONS. 351
be calculated from the properties of gases. This assertion is the
mathematical statement of the relation (4) enumerated above.
Making this substitution we find that the specific electrical conduc-
/ /irX7'
tivitv of the material is cr = -y = - ^ . In this formula c- and a
A 4^6/
have the same value for all substances, u and A are constants charac-
teristic of each substance, z' is independent of the nature of the
material but is proportional to the square root of the absolute
temperature.
It is a well-known result of experiment that the specific conduc-
tivity of all substances is inversely proportional to the absolute tem-
perature. We therefore conclude that the product ;/A for all metals
must be inversely proportional to the square root of the absolute
temperature.
It is a well-known result of the kinetic theory of gases that the
thermal conductivitv of a gas is equal to iiiXz'a. Hence — = —6.
Thus this ratio should have the same value for all metals at the
same temperature and the temperature variation should be the same
as that of the volume of a gas at constant pressure. These are the
relations which are exhibited by the experimental results of Jaeger
and Diesselherst.
The electron theory of metallic conduction has enabled us to
understand a number of curious effects which occur when a con-
ductor is placed in a magnetic field. One of these, the Hall effect,
consists in a deflection of the line of flow of a current which is
caused by the magnetic field. Another effect, which is especially
marked in the case of Bismuth, is an alteration of the specific resist-
ance of the material caused by a magnetic field. These eifects are
intimately connected together and have a simple explanation on the
electron theory. It is well known that any electrified particle moving
in a magnetic field is acted on by a force which is perpendicular to
the plane containing the magnetic force and the direction of motion.
The superposition of this force upon the other forces acting on the
electrons in a metal carrying a current will cause all the electrons to
curve round in the same general direction, giving rise to the Hall
eifect. It will also increase the average curvature of the paths of the
