191 1.] AGGREGATES OF ELECTRONS. 353
is higher the higher the temperature. Clearly, at a sufficiently high
temperature some of the particles will have enough energy from their
heat motion to be able to break through the surface. Aloreover, the
number which are able to escape will be greater the higher the
temperature.
A theory following these lines has succeeded in predicting the
way in which the emission of the electrons depends upon the tem-
perature as well as a number of other interesting relations between
the thermal and electrical behavior of substances. It will be re-
marked that the view which has been outlined is very similar to the
view of the phenomenon of evaporation which is afforded by the
kinetic theory of matter. According to that theory the particles of
the liquid escape into the vapor when their kinetic energy (to be
accurate we ought to say that part of it which depends on the com-
ponent of velocity normal to the surface) exceeds the work they
have to do in order to pass through the surface. Thermionic emis-
sion may be looked upon then simply as the evaporation of electrons
which may be regarded as dissolved in the metal. Just as water is
cooled when it evaporates and heated when steam condenses into it;
so we should expect a conductor to be cooled when it emits electrons
and heated when it absorbs them. Both these effects have recently
been discovered, the former by W'ehnelt and Jentzsch and the latter
by Richardson and Cook.
There is one point in this connection which is worthy of further
consideration. We have seen that it is necessary to suppose that
the electrons in a metal behave like the molecules of a gas. The
same will be at least as true of them after they have been emitted.
Thus when a metal at a high temperature lies in an air-tight en-
closure there will be two atmospheres of electrons, one at a high
pressure inside the metal and the other at a low pressure in the
enclosure outside of the metal. If the principles of the kinetic
theory of matter are well grounded it can be shown that in both of
these atmospheres the electrons are moving about with all possible
speeds but that the proportion of them which have a given speed is
the same for each atmosphere. Moreover, the proportion is the same
known function of the temperature in each case and in each case also
PROG. AMER. PHIL. SOC, L. 200 \V, PRINTED AUG. 4, I9II.
