354 RICHARDSON— DYNAMICAL EFFECTS OF [April 22,
the average kinetic energy should be the same as the average kinetic
energy of a molecule of any gas at the temperature of the enclosure.
In fact the laws of the kinetic theory of gases can be applied
without change to the atmospheres of electrons ; and the above asser-
tions are simply statements of a theorem in the kinetic theory of
gases called, after its discoverers, the Maxwell-Boltzmann Law.
According to this law if a large number of molecules are selected
at random out of any gas the proportion of them which have speeds
lying between certain assigned values let us say // and u' is a certain
definite function of n and u'. The value of this function, which in
addition to it and u' depends only upon the temperature of the gas
and the mass of its molecules, was first deduced by Maxwell. Max-
well's deduction of the value of this function, though sufficiently con-
vincing to those who are familiar with the methods of mathematical
physics, was, neverthless, a highly abstract piece of reasoning; and
it has been impossible up to the present to make anything in the
nature of a direct test of it by experiment on gases. With the
atmospheres of electrons we are, however, able to do a great deal
more than we could with a gas made up of uncharged molecules. By
placing them in a suitable electric field we can bring forces to bear
on each individual electron which are enormous compared with the
forces exerted on a molecule by the earth's gravitational field. For
example if the electrons are being emitted from a heated flat plate
we can place another flat surface a little in front and charge it up,
so that the electric field tends to drive the ions back into the surface
at which they originated. Under these circumstances only those
electrons will be able to cross from one plate to the other if their
kinetic energy is greater than a certain value depending on the elec-
tric field between the plates ; thus the current that gets across will be
a measure of the number of electrons emitted whose kinetic energy
exceeds a known value. By experiments of this kind, and others
based on similar principles, we have succeeded in determining the
law of distribution of speed among the individual electrons which
are emitted. It is found to agree in every particular with that pre-
dicted by ^Maxwell for the case of a gas whose temperature is the
same as that of the metal emitting the electrons and whose molecular
weight is equal to the mass of an electron. In particular the average
