I9II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 23
or from transported vegetable material. The answer to the first
question is certain — a great period of time was required for forma-
tion of the coal beds and their associated strata; but the second
question is more complex and he is inclined to believe that both
methods are possible, though there may be difficulty ip determining
which prevailed at a given locality. Vertical stems are not decisive,
for they are found at times in rocks formed by transport, while
prostrate stems occur in deposits clearly made in situ.
He believed that there were no continental areas during Carbonif-
erous times, that the dry land consisted only of islands. For this
reason, it is impossible to accept the hypothesis that coal was formed
in great lakes or at the mouths of rivers. The only method of
formation by transport would be the driving of great masses of
vegetable matter against an island, which would collect in the quiet
eddy on the opposite side, where, becoming waterlogged, they would
sink and be covered with mud. He clearly prefers the doctrine of
origin in situ.
An island, heavily forested for an indefinitely long period, be-
comes covered by a mass of bark, wood, etc., and similar remains
of small plants. If the island be flooded by the outburst of granite
and consequent elevation of the sea-level, the vegetation will be pro-
strated. By frequent outbursts the sea-level will be raised perma-
nently and the island remains submerged. Deposits of sand and mud
bring the island again to the surface of the water : a new forest rises
on the grave of the old one. He thinks the alternation of strata and
the formation of coal in situ can be explained very simply in this
way.
IMurchison,-"^ after his study of the Donetz field in Russia, was
convinced that the doctrine of transport alone could explain the
conditions. The sections in southern Russia show "that the hypo-
thesis of the formation of coal beds by masses of vegetation which
there grew having subsided //; situ (the truth of the application of
which to some basins we do not deny ) cannot be applied to the cases
in question any more than to the pure marine coal beds of the north-
ern districts, Northumberland and the northwestern parts of York-
^' R. L Alurchison, " The Geology of Russia in Europe and the Ural
Mountains," London, 1845, Vol. L, pp. 112-114.
23
