19II.] AGGREGATES OF ELECTRONS. 355
kinetic energy of the electrons is the same as that of the molecules
of a gas at the temperature of the metal which emits them ; and we
can calculate the value of the well-known constant R in the gas
equation pi'=^R$, where p is the pressure, z' the volume and 6 the
absolute temperature of the gas, from purely electrical experiments
of the kind indicated. It follows from the results of these experiments
together with a simple application of the principles of the dynamical
theory of gases that the free electrons inside a metal must have the
distribution of velocity which is required by Maxwell's law and in
particular must have the same average translational kinetic energy
as the molecules of a gas at the temperature of the metal which
contains them.
2. Material Media axd Electromagnetic Radiations.
The action of light on insulating media is a rather complicated,
but extremely important, phenomenon on which the electron theory
has thrown a great deal of light. IMaxwell showed, many years ago,
that light is an electromagnetic phenomenon. A beam of light is in
fact a wave of oscillating electric and magnetic force, the electric
and magnetic forces being at right angles to one another and to the
direction of propagation. \Mien such a wave falls on an insulating
medium the oscillating electric force will set into vibration the com-
paratively stable electrons which, as we have seen, are embedded in
the medium. The electrons will execute what are appropriately
called forced oscillations, about their original equilibrium positions,
and these oscillations will have the same periodic time as the light.
Thus when it traverses a material insulating medium the light has
not only to keep itself going; it has to keep the electrons which make
up the medium going as well. Roughly speaking one may say that
the electrons in such a medium behave like a load on the luminif-
erous ether. We should therefore expect them to diminish the
speed of propagation of light through it and this is found to be
the case. The exact expression for the velocity cannot be obtained
without going more deeply than we have time to into the electro-
magnetic theory of light. It w'as first given by Maxwell, who
showed that the refractive index, to which the velocity of propaga-
tion is inversely proportional, was equal to the square root of the
