356 RICHARDSON— DYNAMICAL EFFECTS OF [April 22,
effective specific inductive capacity of the medium. Xow the spe-
cific inductive capacity of an insulating medium is equal to unity
plus the product of the numl^cr of electrons per unit volume by
their average displacement in unit electric field. When the material
is subjected to constant electric forces the displacements of the elec-
trons are always proportional to the forces and the specific inductive
capacity is therefore a constant quantity. When the force is an
oscillating one the matter is complicated by the fact that the elec-
trons try, as it were, to strike a balance between their own natural
period of oscillation and that of the force acting on them. They
end by oscillating with the same frequency as the force which
excites them but the distance thev travel from their e(iuilibrium
position depends a good deal on their natural periods as well. Thus
the specific inductive capacity for oscillating forces will not be a
constant quantity b'ut will depend to some extent on the frequency
of oscillation of the force. By the effective specific inductive ca-
pacity we mean the specific inductive capacity for electric forces
which oscillate with the frequency of the light under consideration.
It is evident from what has been said that the refractive index
of an insulating substance depends upon the frequency or, in other
words, upon the color of the light. W^e see at once why a beam of
white light is split up by a prism into the constituent spectral colors.
For each ray is deviated by the prism according to the value of its
refractive index.
Perhaps the most interesting question in this part of our subject
is that of the behavior of a substance towards light whose frequency
is close to that of the natural periods of the substance. In that case
the electrons are set into violent motion owing to the occurrence of
what are sometimes called sympathetic vibrations. The nature of
this phenomenon may best be illustrated by considering a simple
mechanical analogy. Imagine a spiral wire with a weight at one
end to be hung from a shaking support. If the weight is pulled
down and let go it will oscillate backwards and forwards with a
definite natural freffucncy which depends on the stift'ness of the
spring and the heaviness of the weight. If the shakiness of the
support arises from tremors in the building, to the walls of which we
will suppose it bolted, as a rule the frequency of its vibrations will
