191 1.] AGGREGATES OF ELECTRONS. 357
be very great compared with the natural frequency of the spring.
In that case the shakiness of the support will have very little effect
on the spring. If however the frequency of the tremors happens to
be equal or nearly equal to the natural frequency of the spring the
latter is set into very violent agitation, for the reason that the
natural swings of the spring are continually being helped by the
oscillations of the support.
A precisely analogous eft'ect takes place when the period of the
light is close to the natural period of the electrons. In fact it can
be shown that, if there is nothing analogous to a frictional force to
damp down the vibrations of the electrons, they will execute oscilla-
tions of infinite amplitude when there is exact coincidence between
the periods. Since the displacement of the electrons in unit electric
field is the important factor in determining the refractive index we
should expect its value to change very considerably in this region.
As a matter of fact, in the extreme case where there is no damping,
the value of ^- falls rapidly from a small positive quantity on the
short wave-length side of the position of coincidence to the value
— oc at exact coincidence (A = Ao). As the period of exact coinci-
dence is passed ix- changes suddenly to -f- x and on the long wave-
length side falls rapidly to a rather larger positive value than the
one that it had at a great distance from the natural period on the
short wave-length side.
Several very important deductions can be drawn from the results
which have just been described. In the first place we notice that
provided we always keep to the same side of the natural period, no
matter which side we choose, then the refractive index jj. always
diminishes as the wave-length A increases. Hence, since the devia-
tion of light by a prism is greater when the refractive index is
greater it will be smaller the greater the wave-length. The blue
light will therefore be deviated more than the red light in the spec-
trum. This is the well known kind of dispersion which is exhibited
by prisms of glass and similar colorless transparent substances.
When part of the spectrum lies on one side of the natural period
and part on the other there is a sudden increase in the value of the
refractive index when the natural period is crossed. The spec-
trum will then consist of two groups of colors, that on the long
