358 RICHARDSON— DYNAMICAL EFFECTS OF [April 22,
wave-length side being more deviated than that on the short wave-
length side, although in each group the colors are in the normal
order. This is the so-called anomalous dispersion which was dis-
covered by Kundt and which is exhibited by all transparent colored
bodies, like the aniline dyes, wdiich possess a metallic shimmer.
Immediately on the short wave-length side of A,,, we have seen that
/u,- has a negative value in the case we are contemplating, /x in this
region has therefore what mathematicians call an imaginary value.
It can be shown that this imaginary value means that the waves are
incapable of entering the medium. When a train of waves of this
wave-length falls on the medumi they are not absorbed, properly
speaking, but are completely reflected. The substance would appear
to be opaque to light of this wave-length not because it absorbs the
light which falls on it but because it reflects it completely. If
mixed light which contained some of this particular wave-length
were made to undergo a sufficient number of successive reflections
from plates of the substance, only light of this particular region of
frequency would ultimately be left over, since a certain percentage
of the other wave-lengths always gets through. This principle has
been utilised by Rubens to isolate radiations of definite wave-length
in the infra-red part of the spectrum. These radiations are called,
very appropriately, residual rays.
The foregoing discussion does not touch the very interesting
questions of the absorption of light by insulating media. There will
be no absorption, properly speaking, unless there are forces acting
on the moving electrons which tend to dissipate the energy of the
light. Such forces must in general exist and it is usually assumed
that there is a retarding force proportional to the velocity of the
moving electrons, chiefly because this is the simplest assumption
wdiich can be made which is not in contradiction with fact. The
existence of forces of this kind modifies the foregoing conclusions
to a considerable extent in detail but it does not afl^ect their general
character.
Planck has pointed out that it follows from the principles of the
electromagnetic theory of light that the radiation from the moving
electrons gives rise to a retarding force which may be taken to be
proportional to their velocity. Such a force must un(|uestionably
