362 RICHARDSON— DYNAMICAL EFFECTS OF [April 22,
not to be expected. At present the balance of evidence seems to be
decidedly against the corpuscular view.
I am inclined to think that the primary Roentgen rays originate
largely as the result of secondary actions due to the stirring up
of the electrons in the atoms of the anti-cathode by the rapidly mov-
ing cathode rays which impinge on them. On this view the con-
stituent frequencies of the rays would be, to a considerable extent,
a matter of the atoms in which they originate ; and it may be that the
gap in electro-magnetic radiations between ultra-violet light and the
Roentgen rays, which exists at present, may never be filled up ; as
there may be no atoms which have natural periods in the neighbor-
hood of these frequencies.
Recent years have seen the accumulation of a very large quantity
of material relating to optical efl^ects which are produced by a mag-
netic field. It is impossible, within the limits of this discussion, to
attempt to show the enormous usefulness of the electron theory in
the development of the science of magneto-optics ; but there is one
phenomenon which we cannot afford to pass by entirely, if only on
account of its historical importance. I refer to the Zeeman effect.
This effect was called after its discoverer, who showed that the
spectral lines which are emitted by all gaseous substances under
suitable conditions of excitation, were slightly displaced by a very
strong magnetic field. The true explanation of this phenomenon
was at once given by H. A. Lorentz. He pointed out that if the
monochromatic light was emitted by vibrating electrons the fre-
quency of the vibrations would be altered if the atom which con-
tained the electrons found itself in a magnetic field. This change
in the frequency, of course, corresponds with a change in the wave-
lengths of the emitted light. He also predicted that the emitted
light would be polarized in a certain v/ay and this was confirmed by
experiment. Lorentz showed, in addition, that the value of the
electric charge of an electron, divided by its mass, could be calculated
from the displacement of the spectral lines in the magnetic field.
The results of these calculations showed that the value of this ratio
was the same as that found by Sir J. J. Thomson and Wiechert for
the cathode rays in a discharged tube. Thus the Zeeman effect and
the cathode rays were the first two phenomena which aff'orded ex-
