•;64 RICHARDSON— DYNAMICAL EFFECTS OF [April 22,
3. The Number of Electrons in an Atom.
The behavior of very rapidly moving electrons in their passage
through matter is a very interesting subject of investigation. Thanks
to the discovery of the radio-active substances we are able to experi-
ment, if we wish, with electrons whose speed is almost equal to that
of light (3 X io^° centimeters per second). These rapidly moving
electrons are able to shoot right through the atoms of bodies, but
when in their flight they pass very close to one of the constituent
electrons their paths are deviated. When a group of them passes
through a considerable thickness of matter these deviations tend to
accumulate ; so that a group of electrons, all of which were moving
parallel to one another to start with, becomes divergent. Sir J. J.
Thomson showed how the average deviation arising from a single
impact could be calculated and also how the average divergence of
the beam, which was caused by its passage through a given amount
of matter, would depend on the number of electrons present in the
matter traversed.
Experiments made by Barkla showed that when matter, which
was made up of elements of low atomic weight, was traversed by
Roentgen rays it was caused to emit so-called secondary Roentgen
rays, which were precisely similar in character to the primary
Roentgen rays which excited them. A careful study of these second-
ary rays showed that they were primary rays which had been scat-
tered. The phenomenon is in fact very analogous to that which
gives rise to the blue color of the sky, which was shown by Lord
Rayleigh to arise from light scattered by innumerable small particles
present in the atmosphere. The amount of such scattering depends
on the number of particles which are engaged in doing it. In the
case of the Roentgen rays these particles are the electrons present
in the matter, each one of which is set into violent motion by the
Roentgen ray pulse. The exact way in which the amount of the
scattering should depend on the number of electrons engaged in the
operation was figured out by Thomson who showed from Barkla's
experimental results that the number of electrons reckoned per atom
of the material was comparable with the atomic weight.
We have seen already that information of a like nature may be
