24 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
shire, etc." Limestones with marine fossils are found at various
horizons in the Donetz section. The presence of an underclay proves
nothing — even though Stigmaria ficoidcs be the only plant present
for a confused assemblage of plants is seen above and below the coal
beds and the fossil beds are exclusively marine. The fine underclay
indicates only that the sea bottom was covered with detritus of plants
washed in by floods ; the heavier earthy matters, accompanying the
detritus, sank to the bottom, while the plants floated and formed the
upper stratum. Those plants, thus left on the muddy slime, were
covered afterwards by other sediment. ]\luch of the coal, in strata
alternating with marine sediments, may have come from the wash-
ing away and sinking into the sea of floating masses of matted earth
and plants.
At a later date,^* he discussed the question more broadly. He
refers to the terrestrial conditions exhibited in the Upper Carbonif-
erous of England and to the lack of a physical break there between
the Lower and the LTpper Measures, such as appears in Germany and
France. In those countries, the later accumulations may well be
accounted for by depressions of low woodlands and jungles beneath
freshwater, followed by elevations and depressions. There is no
physical break in Britain, but there is the same passage from
marine to terrestrial conditions, of which the coal beds offer posi-
tive evidence; for the roots of SigiUaria are found in the underclay,
which was the soil of a primeval marsh or jungle. The view, which
supposes many and successive subsidences of vast swampy jungles
beneath the level of the waters, best explains how the different
organic masses became so covered w^th beds of sand and mud, as to
form the sandstone and shale of such coal fields. But this theory of
oscillations . . . can scarcely have an application to those other
seams of coal, which, as before mentioned, are interstratified with
beds containing marine shells, the animals of which, such as Prodiicti
and Spirifcrs, must have lived in comparatively deep water."
He conceived that the latter class is to be explained only by
the supposition that great rivers, flowing through lowlands, trans-
ported vast quantities of trees, etc., entangled in earth, and de-
^* " Siluria," 3d ed., London, 1859, pp. 315-317.
24
