19 = I-] WILSON— CONSTITUTION OF THE ATOM. 367
quently much less fundamental than, for example, Lord Kelvin's
vortex ring theory. The negative electrons and the positive sphere
may or may not turn out to be modes of motion of the aether; at
present we cannot say.
One of the first questions which naturally arises in connection
with this theory is. how many negative electrons are there in each
atom? This question has been answered approximately by examin-
ing the effect of matter on light and Rontgen rays. When electric
waves pass over electrons the electrons are acted on by the electric
forces in the waves and so emit radiation. This means that the
electrons scatter the incident radiation. The amount of radiation
scattered by one electron can be calculated on the electromagnetic
theory and hence from the amount observed to be scattered by a
known amount of matter the number of electrons in the matter can
be estimated, the number of atoms in a given amount of matter
can be exactly calculated because we know the charge carried by
one atom in electrolysis and the total charge carried by the matter.
Hence we can get an estimate of the number of electrons per atom.
The total energy scattered by a mass containing .V electrons is
o__ „i
— jM — E where c is the charge on one electron, ;/; its mass and E
3 ^« '
the incident energy. This formula is due to .Sir J. J. Thomson.
The most recent determination of the energ}- scattered when
Rontgen rays pass through matter is that by Crowther.- He finds
that the number of electrons per atom of aluminium is 85, which is
about three times the atomic weight. Previous experiments of a
similar character have given nearly the same result for other
elements. It seems very probable therefore that all atoms contain a
number of electrons proportional to their atomic weights and not
very much greater.
The mass of a negative electron is only one seventeen-hundredth
part of that of an atom of hydrogen, so that the negative electrons
only account for about one six-hundredth of the mass of any atom.
The rest of the mass therefore must be the mass of the positive
sphere. According to this theory therefore the mass of matter is not
electromagnetic in its origin, for the electromagnetic mass of the
- Proc. Roy. Soc, A, Vol. 85, p. 29. 191 1.
