368 WILSON— CONSTITUTION OF THE ATOM. [April 22,
positive sphere is negligible. This theory therefore does not support
the view which is the basis of the *' principle of relativity," that all
phenomena are electromagnetic in character. The mass and rigidity
of the positive spheres are assumed to exist and cannot be explained
by electromagnetic forces. There is no reason why the motion of
these spheres through the ather should not produce effects capable
of being detected and which would enable us to determine the veloc-
ity of the earth relatively to the xther. The fact that this has not
yet been done does not prove that it is impossible.
According to Sir J. J. Thomson's theory the properties of dif-
ferent atoms are due to the number and arrangement of the electrons
in the positive sphere. The problem of the distribution of 11
electrons in a positive sphere has not been solved and is very
complicated, so Sir J. J. Thomson investigated the much simpler
problem of the distribution of /; electrons in a plane wdien they are
all acted on by forces of attraction proportional to their distances
from a fixed point in the plane.
This problem can also be solved experimentally by means of
Professor Mayer's floating magnets. The electrons arrange them-
selves in concentric rings. Thus six give a ring of five and one in
the middle. Seventeen give a ring eleven, a ring of five and one
in the middle. Thirty-two give rings of fifteen, eleven, five and one
in the middle. Forty-nine give rings of seventeen, fifteen, eleven,
five and one in the middle.
With two in the middle we get a series of rings containing 8,
12, 16, 19 and 22 electrons respectively and a similar series with
three in the middle and so on.
This leads to a very interesting suggestion with regard to the
series of elements which have similar properties for example:
Helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon; hydrogen, lithium, sodium,
potassium, rubidium, caesium ; fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine.
Sir J. J. Thomson suggests that each element in such a series
may be derived from the one before it by the addition of another
ring of electrons the arrangement of the inner rings remaining un-
changed. This explains the similarity of the properties of the
elements in such series.
On this view an atom of bromine is an atom of chlorine with the
