191 1.] WHITEHEAD— HIGH VOLTAGE COROXA IN AIR. 375
sion lines in efforts to determine the law connecting the voltage at
which loss begins with the physical constants of the line. These
measurements have shown marked Inconsistencies among themselves,
the results on the same lines on different days being often at variance.
A number of laboratory investigations, in which the widely varying
conditions of a transmission line are under control, have naturally
followed. They have indicated with a rather wide variation in nu-
merical values that the critical voltage or voltage at which corona
begins on round wires varies inversely as the temperature and directly
as the pressure : also that the electric intensity under which the air
near the surface of the conductor breaks down has not a constant
value but increases markedly for conductors of small diameter ; and
further that the value of the intensity at which break-down begins is
that corresponding to the maximum value of the alternating wave,
and is independent of the material of the conductor.
The general nature of the influence of temperature and pressure
could probably have been predicted from numerous investigations of
the discharge of electricity through gases ; the cjuantitative relations
for pressures near that of the atmosphere do not, however, appear
to have attracted the physicist, nor indeed have they as yet been
satisfactorily determined for the voltage of corona formation by-
experimental engineers. The accumulated results of physical inves-
tigation and theory, however, oft'er no obvious explanation of the
rise of the critical surface intensity for smaller wires, nor of the
influences of the form and frequency of alternating voltage. The
fact that the corona voltage is that corresponding to the maximum
value of the alternating wave has been proven by stroboscopic
methods and by the use of distorted wave shapes. It indicates that
the time element involved in the process of break-down of the air
is short compared with the periods of the common alternating cur-
rent circuits. The apparent sharpness of the connection removes
many objections to the use of the alternating electromotive force as
a means of investigation, and renders available its many advantages.
It is only necessary to know the shape of the alternating wave and
this may be obtained readily by several well known methods. Effec-
tive values as read on direct reading instruments may thus be used
