19".] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 27
thick. Perhaps one may regard layers containhig great abundance
of plants as equivalent to deposits in which the plants do not
form beds, because in the latter case the plants were brought in con-
temporaneously with the sand and mud masses. He is convinced
that the coal and the enclosing sandstone or shale beds are wholly
independent deposits. And this belief is strengthened by the fact
that the material, filling stems in coal, clay or sandstone, differs
from that which surrounds them — an additional evidence of the
extreme quiet prevailing during deposition. Goeppert was the first
to recognize that the coating of the filled stems is the converted
bark. The roots of Sigillaria and Lcpidodcndron were feeble, as
are those of related plants to-day, and the trees were overthrown
easily ; and thus it happens that the stems, as in Upper Silesia, con-
tribute to the formation of the coal. When overthrown, their cel-
lular interior was squeezed out and converted into coal, as is seen
near Dombrowa. All the phenomena indicate that the coal deposits
were made during conditions of quiet, which would be impossible
unless the plants grew where the coal is found.
The vast extent and constancy in structure exhibited by coal beds
is important. He cannot think that such a mass could be floated in
at once, yet how could it be deposited so regularly by any other
means? He agrees with Lindley and Hutton and wath Burat that
the mass is too great for transport. He is unable to believe that
the coal was the product of forests, because the amount is so vast ;
but the evidence satisfies him that the plants have not come from a
distance. He prefers to accept the opinions presented by v. Berold-
ingen, De Luc, Ad. Brongniart, Link, and to believe that, if not all
coal beds, at least the thickest originated as peat bogs — the more so
because of the resemblance which a buried peat bog has to a coal bed.
He conceives that on the damp floor there grew lycopods, cala-
mites, ferns, stigmaria and other plants, corresponding to the crypto-
gams and monocotyledons of present day bogs. Tree-like Sigillarice
and Lcpidodcndra grew on the borders of the bog and at times were
uprooted by floods. He laid great stress on the preservation of the
plants, as precluding the possibility of transportation ; he finds the
mode of decay of tree stems equally important, for the conditions
observed in Calamitcs are the same with those found in his experi-
27
