406 TRELEASE— THE DESERT GROUP NOLIXE.E. [April 21,
Distribution and Origin.
Like the Yuccese, the Nolineae are all North American, and they
are comparably distributed except that none are known from the
West Indies. They are among the characteristic plants of the dry
temperate backbone of the continent. None extend north of
southern Colorado, and no species is known to have a very extended
range. Their focal center is evidently the temperate ^Mexican
tableland, on which the genera are all represented and to which the
majority of their species are confined, Bcaucarnca alone, in its most
typical form, being characteristic of the hot country and ranging
into Central America. Of the two genera that reach the United
States, Nolina only enters into the Californian flora, and that only
in the southern desert. Though unrepresented in the intermediate
region, from which it may be assumed to have disappeared, this
genus also appears in the South Atlantic states, apparently as an
ofifset from the grass-leaved Texan stock, rather than indicating its
primal home {map).
The ontogeny of the group is scarcely more than a matter of
speculation. No reason is apparent for considering it to be very
ancient. Though evidently related to the typically septicidal
Yucccc-e, it seems rather more likely to have had a closer evolutionary
connection with the typically loculicidal Dracsenese. More satis-
factory hypotheses may be held concerning the affinities of the
component genera. Nolina may be taken as most closely approach-
ing the prototype of the group because of its extensive range, large
number of species composing differentiated groups, and conformity
to the liliaceous plan in its 3-celled pistil and cotyledonary arch.
Calibaiins appears to be an offset of Nolina. Beaucarnca and
Dasylirion, with a single-celled pistil, may represent parallel off-
shoots from Nolina or a no-longer recognized derivative of that
genus ; and the question may be raised whether Bcaucarnca is more
than a well-marked subgenus of Dasylirion which, strictly limited,
itself consists of two quite dissimilar groups. These affinities may
be indicated as follows : '
T.T /Calibanus.
Nolina/
\//Beaucarnea.
^Dasvlirion.
