191 1.] TRELEASE— THE DESERT GROUP X0LIXE.5:. 407
Biology.
All Xoline?e are perennial, and, as would be expected from their
habitats, they are pronounced xerophytes with a rather succulent
caudex," either small and insignificant or moderately developed, and
then either prostrate or erect, or even of tree size (/>/. 1-4), and
rather hard usually rough-edged or even prickly leaves^'*^ covered by
a well-cuticularized epidermis, the stomata usually arranged in lines
overlying the parenchyma between strong fibrous bundles and
either furnished with an outer vestibule as in Agave, etc. (Dasyli-
rioii), or located between prominent ribs that, especially in NoUna,
are often covered with more or less interlocking papillae.^^-^*' They
occur most strikingly in suth desert associations- as count Agave,
Yucca and Hcchtia among their characteristic components {pi. 2,4).
In many species the tip of the leaf shreds into a sometimes brush-
like bunch of fibers, and in one (Nolina Bigelovii) the margin
breaks away sparingly — in kind, rather than quantity, recalling the
fibrous exfoliation characteristic of many yuccas and of one large
group of spicate agaves. From a study, of the leaf-tip of Dasylirion
acrotriche, Zuccarini-* was led to believe that what passes for the
leaf is really a petiole with ventral ligule, the blade, considered as
peltate, being represented by the more dorsal shreds only. The
prevalent dorsal insertion of the haustorium on the cotyledonary
sheath in seedlings of this group is worthy of note in connection
with this opinion (pi. ij).
Though sometimes weakened or even destroyed by flowering
under cultivation, all of the Xolineae appear to be normally poly-
carpic. The terminal inflorescence^--* is essentially of one type
though varied from a thin lax raceme-like wand into a stout com-
pound spike with short and broad divisions or an open simple, com-
pound or even decompound panicle (pi. 5). Whatever its form,
the flowers are clustered, usually two or three together, in the axils
of small prevailingly denticulate bractlets, either on cushions so
short that they appear to come from the main axis, or, more com-
monly, on evident secondary or tertiary branches (pi. 6, 7). The
primary branches appear to be 8-ranked^' and the bracts are often
large and conspicuous, those which support the ultimate flower
clusters being scarcely larger than the bractlets.
