408 TRELEASE— THE DESERT GROUP NOLINE^. [April 21,
The sometimes slightly fragrant^^ polygamo-dioecioiis flowers
are borne on slender pedicels never greatly exceeding their own
length, which are always distinctly jointed, usually about the
middle. Though the flowers are small, their at first petaloid, then
scarious-persistent distinct entire or toothed segments are usually
whitish, though more or less tinged with green, violet, rose or
cream — a coloration supported by the usual whiteness of the scari-
ous bractlets and, often, by similarly colored large bracts. The
small elliptical anthers are introrsely versatile, their filaments
slightly adnate to the base of the perianth segments. Three connate
carpels, with typically two anatropous basal ovules each, constitute
the pistil which is i- or 3-celled in different genera. The stigmas
are essentially apical, on more or less free and divergent style tips in
Nolina, crowning the rather narrowed ovary in Beaiicarnea, along
the rim of a distinct funnel-like though sometimes cleft style in
Dasylirion, or as sessile points in Calibaiins (pi. 8).
Essentially unisexual and often dioecious, the flowers are perfect
in plan ; and abortive stamens are found in the fertile flowers, and
more or less recognizable rudimentary pistils in those that are
functionally staminate. In fertile flowers nectar is secreted by small
septal nectar-slits in the base of the pistil, — often very evident after
this has enlarged into a fruit (pi. p) ; and in staminate flowers it is
the rudiments of the carpels that perform the same function.-*
Though prevailingly 3-merous, the flowers may show deviation
from this pattern. Preda^' noted that about one-fifth of the flowers
of a pistillate plant of Dasylirion glaucnm were 4-merous ; and in
examining large numbers of the fruits of this genus I have observed
2-, 4- or 5-winged fruits of several species and one 4-carpellary fruit
of Calibaitus (pi. 11). Several observers have found that partly
developed fruits may occur now and then on staminate plants® ; my
own observation shows that well developed stamens may be found in
some pistillate flowers ; and Bouche^ records the transformation of
staminate into pistillate individuals, — suggesting an interesting line
of study for those who may observe and experiment with these
plants as they grow under natural conditions.
Observations on pollination do not appear to have been re-
corded, but the flowers are clearly entomophilous and their pollina-
