191 ■•] TRELEASE— THE DESERT GROUP XOLIXE.^. 411
Uses.
Though none of the XoHnese can be considered as of great
present economic importance, many of them are utilized in one
way or another and it is probable that more use can be made of
some species than is now the case. In the great bend of the Rio
Grande I have seen the trunks of Dasylirioii split open to give stock
access to the rather watery pith ; and they are sometimes cut for
feeding.-'"'-^ In Mexico the trunks of Dasylirion are roasted and
eaten similarly to those of the mezcal agaves ; and Dr. Gregg notes
a similar use of a Xoliiia on the label accompanying a specimen of
it. From such roasted trunks of Dasylirion, after fermentation, an
alcoholic beverage very similar to mezcal spirits is distilled, and
under the name of sotoP--^^'^*--^ it is very commonly used through
the extensive ^Mexican territory over which this genus occurs. As
in Yucca, Agave, and .some other plants, the sap of those now under
consideration contains, as a water conservation provision, a saponi-
fying substance, and the roots of Xolina Pahncri are said to serve
as an amole.^^ The leaves of Dasylirion and Nolina — and presum-
ably of Beaucarnca — are used for thatching,^^ basket work, coarse
hats and similar plaited-ware, either entire or shredded. ''•^-'^^
Though less employed than that of yuccas and agaves, their fiber is
also somewhat used locally, and the narrow leaves of the eastern
bear-grass have long been used in their entirety for hanging meat
and similar domestic purposes for which strength rather than
finished cordage is needed. Some thought seems to have been given
also to the preparation of paper pulp from the fiber of Dasxlirion.^
SvsTEM.VTic Revision.
In revising the forms known to me I have had the privilege of
seeing an unusual amount of typical material, for which I am greatly
indebted to Professor Radlkofer of Munich (Zuccarini types), Dr.
Robinson of Cambridge (Watson types), Dr. Rose of the National
Herbarium (types of his own species) and Mr. Brandegee of
Berkeley, whose collection contains numerous critical forms. Ow-
ing to Engelmann's early interest in the vegetation of the Texano-
Mexican region, his herbarium, now at the Missouri Botanical
