412 TRELEASE— THE DESERT GROUP XOLIXE.^. [April 21,
Garden, is rich in representatives of this, as of other groups char-
acteristic of that arid region, — as herbarium representation of such
plants goes : and in it, as well as in the herbarium of the New York
Botanical Garden and in the National Herbarium, have been found
types or cotypes of the species of Scheele and Torrey.
I do not venture to think that anything like the last word
on the group is here said, — the sparse occurrence of the representa-
tives of admitted species through a vast and greatly diversified area,
as shown by the distribution map, would speak against such a view ;
but the following rather tersely cast synopsis is published in the
hope that it may render the work of filling gaps in both range and
forms easier than it has proved in the past. Space is not taken for
a full bibliography, — though this would not have been very exten-
sive; but the principal revisions of each genus are noted, as well as
the various names under which a species has appeared ; and refer-
ences are given to all illustrations that have been found.
Synopsis of Genera.
Ovary 3-celled. Fruit wingless.
Fruit deeply 3-lobed, often inflated : seed nearly globose, rather fleshy-
walled. Pedicels articulated rather far below the flowers. Perianth
segments entire, papillate-pointed. Leaves strongly ribbed with usually
papillate grooves, at most serrulately roughened on the margin. In-
florescence a panicle (or racemosely reduced). Nolina.
Fruit globose-triangular, not lobed or inflated ; seed melon-shaped, thin-
walled, occluding the sterile cells. Pedicels articulated close to the
flowers. Perianth segments nearly entire, rounded. Leaves as in Nolina.
Inflorescence a panicle. Calib.^nus.
Ovary i-celled. Fruit 3-sided and 3-winged, not lobed or inflated.
Pedicels articulated somewhat below the flowers. Perianth segments
entire, acute. Seeds 3-grooved or 3-lobed. Leaves somewhat ribbed,
the grooves not usually papillate, at most serrulately roughened on the
margin. Inflorescence a panicle. Beaucarnea.
Pedicels articulated close to the flowers. Perianth segments denticulated,
rather obtuse. Seeds 3-grooved or 3-sided. Leaves not ribbed, their
margin (in al] except one sc|uare-leaved species) armed with strong
prickles and usually also serrulate-roughened. Inflorescence a stout
compound spike. Dasvlirion.
NoLIXA.
Michaux, Fl. P.or.-Amer. i: 208. 1803. — Watson. Proc. Amer.
Acad. 14: 246-8. 1879. — Rose, Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb. 10: 92.
