28 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
mcnts with Arum. The presence of vertical stems is noteworthy
because they are so numerous. It is possible for floods to carry
away whole trees and to deposit them in vertical position ; that oc-
curred in the great debacle near Martigny in Switzerland. This
explanation would suffice for an isolated instance ; but the number of
such stems in the Coal Measures is too great ; the analogy is in
submerged forests of our own day.
The distribution of plants, both vertically and horizontall}', has
an important bearing on the subject. At one locality the flora may
consist almost wholly of one species and at another, almost wholly
of another species. There is a group-like distribution, so to speak,
a social occurrence. In Upper Silesia, the coal may be termed
Sigillaria coal, while in Lower Silesia it is Siigmaria coal. He
asserts that an observer, in viewing the coal bed, involuntarily thinks
of a peat bog.
Lyell's volumes on his second visit to the United States appeared
at this time and had material influence in moulding public opinion.
They will be cited in another connection.
Naumann"*" recognized the distinction between deposits formed
on the sea border and those in fresli-water lakes, as had been done
by Elie-de-Beaumont and Burat. The former contain, especially in
their lower portions, rock layers with organic remains correspond-
ing to the marine mode of formation, while the latter, less extensive,
have no traces of marine fossils or anvthing else to show co-working
of the sea. These types he terms paralisch and limnisch. These
terms are equivalent to pelagic and mediterranean of Elie-de-Beau-
mont, to terrains houillers dc Iiautr iiicr and terrains houillcrs des
lacs of Burat. The coal deposits of Great Britain, Belgium, West-
phalia, Russia and America are paralisch or pelagic ; those of central
France, Saxony and Bohemia are limnisch or lacustrian.
The prevailing rocks of the Carl)oniferons are conglomerate,
standstone and clay shale, wliicli occur in paralisch and limnisch
alike. They are derived most!}' from destruction of other rocks
and their materials were transported. The land consisted not of
small low-lving islands but mainly of great islands and continents
^" C. F. Naumanii, "Lclirlnich cUr (Jeognosic," Leipzig, 1854. VdI. II., pp.
45 r> 452, 571-580.
28
