191 1.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 29
with mighty rivers, along whose coasts and in basin shaped depres-
sions was deposited the vast system of sand and mud strata: This at
length became marshland, ofifering the ground for the luxuriant
vegetation of the first coal bed. In the Appalachian region, there
may have been the flat coast of a land extending far to the east,
from which great rivers carried sand and mud into the shallow sea
at the west, in which, farther away, limestone was forming. Proc-
esses such as those now seen in the Nile, Mississippi, Hoangho
and other rivers, continuing for many thousands of years, would
raise the sea bed until it reached the water surface as a wide-spread
marshland. Similar operations were going on in freshwater basins
of the dry land leading to the formation of morasses, supporting
Calamites, SigUIaricc and other Carboniferous plants, which would
give a deposit of peat.
The alternation of a great number of coal beds with thick masses
of sandstone and shale is not so easily explained as is the origin
of the first coal bed. The causes in paralisch areas are difi^erent
from those in limnisch basins.
Lyell, Lindley and others held the opinion that seacoasts, on
which paralisch deposits were formed, underwent slow subsidence
during Carboniferous time. If one suppose that this subsidence was
interrupted periodically, we have a mechanism by which the forma-
tion of successive coal beds could be explained. A similar result
would be secured by occasional elevations of the sea-bottom, ac-
cording to Petzholdt's conception. There is necessary in each case
a general rise of the sea-level to cover the plant deposit with the
sandstone and shale needed to give another swampy surface. This
alternating subsidence and stability of the sea-bottom explains why
the shale, covering coal beds, encloses a mass of plant remains
and also why paralisch territories may have many but thin coal
beds.
This explanation is not wholly satisfactory for limnisch areas,
since one can hardly suppose that all of those could have suffered
the repeated subsidence. One must conceive that between longer
periods of stability there were epochs in which increased fall of
inflowing streams or a diversion of flow occurred. The greater
carrying power of the streams would bring the plant deposit and
29
