30 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
at length form a new surface on which vegetation would begin once
more. This would give a smaller number of beds. The, at times,
great thickness and the frequent irregularity of coal beds in lim-
nisch areas may be explained in part by supposing that they were
not formed wholly as peat deposits, luit received masses of uptorn
vegetation, swept out by floods, and this leads to the question of
the formation of a particular coal bed.
There are two theories, transport (Anschwemmung) and in situ
(an Ort und Stelle). Both may be correct. The great beds, be}ond
doubt, are of in situ origin, but there are many deposits which can
be explained only by transport of plant masses.
It is known that streams bring down astonishing quantities of
plant material; that ocean currents carry driftwood far and that
it accumulates in vast masses on shores. Currents of the olden time
must have been similar. If the widespread masses were buried
under sediments, they would be transformed into coal beds. Neu-
mann thinks that repetition of this process at mouths of streams in
lakes or on the sea-coast would give a system of strata like the
present series of coal beds with intervening sandstones and shales.
Such drift masses are irregular in extent and thickness, often as
blocklike masses. Such transported material would give conditions
like those observed in coal beds of some limnisch areas, great irregu-
larity and variation in thickness, breaking up into separate benches,
some of them cxcessvely thick. He thinks that under especially
favorable conditions a coal bed might be formed in this way which
would resemble one formed in situ. He considers also that this
theory of transport explains many regular coal beds, such as those
between limestones or other strata distinctly marii;e, as well as beds
resting directly on granite, limestone, etc., without an underclay.
He. agrees with Murchison that in some cases the transport theory
has value.
But for the greater part of the coal beds, the in situ theory must
be accepted ; their material was produced by vegetation an Ort und
Stelle. All beds continuous over great areas, with regular and not
too great thickness and with a stigmaria-filled underclay are to be
explained in this way. But one must not think that there were
real forests, which were thrown down in place, compressed by in-
30
