19"] REID— ISOSTASY AXD MOUNTAIN RANGES. 445
There are great areas of the earth, such as the high plateau
regions in the west of the United States, where the rock has been
elevated many thousands of feet but without suffering any com-
pression whatever, which makes it quite evident that there are ver-
tical forces which produce many movements in the earth's crust.
Mr. Gilbert has given to these forces the name of cpcirogenic, or
continent-making forces, to distinguish them from orogenic forces;
but we must not forget that epeirogenic forces are apparently alone
active in the elevation of certain mountain ranges. The Sierra
Nevada, for instance, although its strata are much folded, owes
its present elevation to the vertical forces which seem still to be
tilting the great block. Alt. St. Elias also seems to have been tilted
up by vertical forces without any folding of its strata.
The American geologists showed that a mountain range does
not rise haphazard in any part of the earth, but that it appears where
there was earlier a great geosynclinal, which had gradually sub-
sided and accumulated sediments to an extraordinary thickness, all
of them being laid down in comparatively shallow waters ; and it
was only after this preparatory step that the foldings and elevation
of the mountain range took place.
But there is one important factor to which geologists have not
given proper attention, that is, the revelations of the plumb-line.
About the middle of the nineteenth century Archdeacon Pratt
pointed out that in the south of India the plumb-line was deflected
toward the Indian Ocean, and in the north of India, although it
was deflected somewhat toward the Himalaya mountains, still the
gravitational attraction of these mountains was considerablv less
than it should have been, if the density of the material in and under
them had been the same as in other parts of the earth's crust; and
he, therefore, suggested that the oceans were deep because the
material under them was heavy, and the mountains were high
because the material which composed them was light, and that in
general the amount of material under any two equal segments of
the earth was the same. But these facts did not make a great im-
pression upon geologists and did not prevent the further advocacy
of compression and the consequent accumulation of material as the
cause of mountain elevation.
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC, L. 200 DD, PRINTED AUGUST 7, I9II.
