446 REID— ISOSTASY AND MOUXTAIX RANGES. [April 21,
In 1880 yir. Faye showed that the so-called "anomalies" of
gravity would practically disappear if, in reducing observations on
land to sea-level, no account were taken of the land mass above sea-
level ; and if, in reducing observations made on islands in mid ocean,
the excess of attraction of the island mass- over an equal amount
of sea-water were subtracted. This is equivalent to assuming that
the continental areas stand up on account of their low densities, but
that the small islands are supported by the rigidity of the crust. ^
In 1889 Major Button read a very remarkable paper before the
Philosophical Society of Washington,- in which he pointed out that
the mountain regions were probably continuing to rise as a result
of the lightening of their weight by erosional transportation and that
regions of deposition near the coasts were probably sinking on
account of the added material which they were receiving, and that
the forces thus brought into play would set up slow currents from
the regions under the sea towards the region under the mountains ;
and he held that the earth was not strong enough to sustain the
weight of great mountain ranges but that these owed their elevation
to the fact, as already suggested by Archdeacon Pratt, that they
were lighter than the material under the lowlands, or under the
oceans; and that there was, therefore a certain equality of weight
in the various segments of the earth. He gave to this theory the
name of isostasy, which has served to give it definiteness ever since.
It is to be noticed that Major Button considered the elevation of
mountains to be due to vertical, and not to tangential forces.
The theory of isostasy has been much discussed by geologists
since ]\Iajor Button's paper; many papers have been written on the
subject, and the available geological evidence has been invoked in
support of, or against, the idea ; but it was not until very recently that
the real evidence, which lies in the variations of the force of gravity
and the deviation of the vertical, has led to definite conclusions.
Mr. Putnam and Mr. Gilbert"'' discussed a series of gravity ob-
^"Sur la reduction des observations du pendule an niveau de la mer,"
C. R. de I'Acad. dcs Sciences, 1880, Vol. 90, pp. 1443-1447-
-"Some of the Greater Problems of Physical Geology," Bull. Pliilos.
Soc. of Washington, 1889, Volume XL, pp. 51-64.
^"Results of a Trans-Continental Series of Gravity Measures," Bull.
Philos. Soc. of IVashini^ion, 1895, Volume XIII., pp. 31-/6.
