191 1.] REID— ISOSTASY AND MOUNTAIN RANGES. 447
servations made across the United States, which led them to the
conclusion that isostasy was true only in so far as the very largest
features of the earth's crust, such as the continents and ocean basins,
were concerned, but that mountain ranges were at least in part sup-
ported by the rigidity of the crust.
When Dr. Nanscn drifted across the North Polar basin in the
Fraiii he provided pendulums to determine the force of gravity
when the ship was frozen in ice ; and the discussion of his observa-
tions showed that gravity was normal over that basin, or, at least,
where his observations were made.*
Professor Helmert,^ in Germany, has done much in the discus-
sion of gravity measures and Dr. Plecker has made some notable
voyages and has determined the forces of gravity at sea, over the
Atlantic, Indian and Pacific oceans, and over the Black Sea, the
results showing that on the whole the force of gravity is normal
over these bodies ; only in special and limited areas, in the neighbor-
hood of very steep slopes, was any marked anomaly found."
But the most important work which has been done along this
line is the work of Dr. John F. Hayford,' who, while connected with
the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, discussed in a thor-
ough and able manner the deflections of the vertical at a large num-
ber of stations in diiTerent parts of the United States, and his results
show definitely that over this region isostatic eciuilibrium actually
exists. He has concluded that this is true even for areas as small
as a square degree, that is, seventy miles on the side. He believed
* " The Norwegian North Polar Expedition of 1893-96," Volume II.,
Part VIII., Results of the PenduUun Observations, bj^ E. O. Schiotz.
° " Hohere Geodesie," Leipzig, i&So.
'" Bestimmung der Schwerkraft auf dem Atlantischen Ozean," I'croff.
des Konig. Preuss. Geodet. Instit., Neue Folge, No. 11. "Bestimmung der
Schwerkraft auf dem Indischen und Groszen Ozean," Veroff. des Zentral
Bureaus der Interuat. Erdmessiing, Neue Folge, No. 18. " Bestimmung der
Schwerkraft auf dem Schwarzen Meere," same. No. 20.
'"The Geodetic Evidence of Isostasy, etc.," Proc. JVashingtoii Acad
Sci, 1906, Vol. VIIL, pp. 25-40. "The Earth a Failing Structure," Bull.
Philos. Soc., Washington, 1907, Vol. XV., pp. 57-74. " The Figure of the
Earth and Isostasy," United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, 1909. " Sup-
plementary Investigation in 1909 on the Figure of the Earth and Isostasy,"
same, 1910. " The Relation of Lsostasy to Geodesy, Geophysics and Geology,"
Science, February 10, 191 1,
