19II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 31
coming sediments and changed into layers of plant material. The
Carboniferous was not a tree and forest flora ; it was morass and
strand vegetation, developed on great emerging plains of marshland.
The prevailing forms suggest that formation of the widely extended
coal beds was analogous to the formation of peat bogs.
The purity of coal substance, the continuity of the beds, their
regular thickness, the arrangement in benches due to clay layers
produced by inconsiderable inundations, the upright plant stems and
all the remaining relations of most coal beds appear to find sufificient
explanation only in this or a similar conception of the mode of their
formation. When at length a permanent elevation of the sea-level
comes, the bog is buried under sand and mud, in whose first layers,
just as in the last conditions of peat vegetation, a great mass of
plant remains is found, torn from the neighboring land ; so that it is
clear that the roof shale of a coal bed encloses as a rule a large
number of isolated plant remains.
Newberry's^" attention was attracted to the canncls and semi-
cannels of Ohio at the beginning of his studies. Observations
made in peat bogs of this country and Europe led him to believe that
cannel was formed in lagoons, where completely macerated vegetable
tissue, probably parenchyma for the most part, accumulated as vege-
table mud. Among other arguments favoring his hypothesis, he
urges that cannel is more nearly homogeneous than cubical coal ; that
it contains morp volatile matter, with more hydrogen, and must have
been deposited .n a hydrogenous medium which prevented oxidation;
that it contains aquatic animals, so abundant at times, as to prove
that they inhabited pools in which cannel was a sediment; that the
plant remains in cannel are usually skeletonized ; and that in open
water lagoons of modern peat marshes, fine carbonaceous mud ac-
cumulates, which when dried is very like cannel.
Le Conte'^^ compared the peat bog and estuary theories. The
arguments in favor of the peat bog theory are, the purity of the
coal, the fine preservation of the tender and more delicate parts
^' J. S. Newberry, Amer. Journ. Sci., 1857. A synopsis of this paper with
some additional notes was given by him in Geol. Survey of Ohio, Vol. II.,
1874, p. 125.
'^Joseph Le Conte, "Lectures on Coal," Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst, for
1857, Washington, 1858, pp. 131-137.
31
