191 1-] THE ALLIGATOR SNAPPER FROM TEXAS. 453
formed the present writer that there occur along the Brazos River
three principal terraces. The oldest and highest of these, the
Hidalgo Falls terrace, lies at a height of lOO or more feet above the
present water line of the river. In the materials of this terrace
have been found remains of Maiiiiiiiit, Elcphas, Mcgalonyx, Eqiius,
etc. About 75 feet below this terrace is found another, the Port
Hudson, whose thickness is from 20 to 30 feet. The upper terrace
is regarded as older Pleistocene; the Port Hudson, as newer
Pleistocene. At a level some 15 to 20 feet below that of the Port
Hudson, is a terrace which Professor Deussen considers as of
early Recent time. It constitutes the real " bottom lands " of the
Brazos and is subject to overflow.
It is very probable that the remains described here were derived
from the lowest and youngest terrace and that the individual lived
at some time about the beginning of the Recent epoch. The species
probably lives today in the Brazos River.
The skull (plates X\TII and XIX) lacks the lower jaw, a part
of the temporal roof of the left side, most of the occipital condyle,
and the hinder part of the supraoccipital process. A close exami-
nation reveals no characters by which it can be distinguished spe-
cifically from the alligator snapper. The profile (PI. XIX, Fig. 2)
is much less concave than in most specimens of the species collected
in the rivers of the Southern States ; but there is in the United States
National Museum a skull of considerable size, no. 3769, from
IMississippi, which presents no greater concavity than does the
Brazos River specimen. There are two other skulls, the one con-
siderably larger than the skull from Mississippi, the other con-
siderably smaller, both of which are much more concave than the
specimen from Mississippi. Hence, the amount of concavity seems
not to depend on youth or old age.
The skull of the fossil is, relative to the length, slightly both
broader and higher than are two skulls with which it is compared,
as is here shown :
Snout to
Specimen. condyle. Width. Height.
Brazos River skull i 1.19 -84
No. 3769 U. S. N. M., from Mississippi I 1.14 78
No. 3444 U. S. N. M., from Red R., Ark i 1.08 .74
