32 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
of plants, the position of these plants in the roof shale, the com-
pletely disorganized condition of materials in the coal, the presence
of the underclay, with roots and the occurrence of vertical stems
rooted in the underclay. The chief objection to the theory is the
repeated alternation, in the same locality, of coal seams with marine
and freshwater strata. There being as many as one hundred coal
seams, it would appear as though the same spot has been raised
above water level and had been depressed below it at least one
hundred times.
The estuary theory was proposed to avoid this difficulty. As an
estuary at the mouth of a great river is occupied now by salt- and
again by fresh-water, it should contain alternating deposits of marine
and fresh-water origin. In seasons of freshet, the salt water is
pushed out and the river water, loaded with mineral detritus and
timber rafts, makes its deposits ; during low water, the sea returns
and marine deposits follow.
Le Conte finds insuperable objections to the latter. He thinks
that coal beds were formed as peat bogs at the mouths of large
rivers. The analogy is to be sought, not in the bogs of Ireland,
but in those of the Mississippi delta. He supposes a vast delta,
with spaces protected by fringes of plants from influx of river muds.
There pure vegetable matter would accumulate until during some
violent flood the barrier would be broken down and the whole space
covered by mud. The delta, like that of the Mississippi, subsided
slowly and the covering of mineral detritus eventually became
ground for a new marsh. If the subsidence were more rapid than
the river deposits could overcome, the sea would take possession
and limestone would be formed. There is no necessity for con-
ceiving repeated upheavals and depressions. '* Coal has almost cer-
tainly accumulated in situ in extensive peat swamps at the mouths
of large rivers, upon ground which was slowly subsiding during the
whole period."
Lesquereux,''^ after long study of peat bogs in Europe, came to
the United States, where as palaeobotanist to several official sur-
'"' L. Lesquercux, PaLxontological report on fossil flora of the Coal
Measures, Third Ann. Rep. Geol. Survey of Kentucky. Frankfort, 1857, pp.
505-522.
32
