460 HARSHBERGER— INFLUENCE OF SEA WATER [April 22,
silver nitrate volumetric solution.- This is the method adopted I
am told by the botanists at Johns Hopkins University in studying
the salt marsh vegetation of Maryland, the results of which investi-
gation have not yet been published.
Method of the Electric Bridge. — The Bureau of Soils, United
States Department of Agriculture, adopted some years ago the prin-
ciple of the slide wire bridge to the measurement of the salt content
of soils.^ The earlier instruments have been described in various
bulletins and the results obtained with them are scattered through
various publications of the bureau. Since 1899, when the electric
bridge was put first into practical use, various improvements have
been made, so that the improved instrument is the result of the
experience gained by its use in the actual field study of soils. The
use of the electric methods for determining the soluble content of
a soil depends on the fact that the electric current is conducted by
the salt in solution and that the conduction of the solution, or con-
versely, its resistance to the passage of the current, is largely deter-
mined by its concentration. The magnitude of current that will pass
is increased by an increase of salt in solution ; or the resistance to
the passage of the current decreases with the increase of salt. The
experience gained by the use of the modified instrument is embodied
in the recent bulletin of the Bureau of Soils noted above and its
general utility in the study of alkali soils, the salt content of irriga-
tion and seepage waters is given.
Method of Plasnwlysis. — It is a well-known physiologic fact that
dilute solutions of potassium nitrate, sodium chloride and cane sugar
cause a removal of water from living plant cells, so that the proto-
plasm contracts away from the inside of the cell wall. The per-
" Consult Hare, Hohart A., Caspari, Charles, Rusby, H. H., " The
National Standard Dispensatory," 1905, 1684; Fresenius, C. Remigius, "A
System of Instruction in Quantitative Chemical Analysis," 1894, 430; Sutton,
Francis, "A Systemic Handbook of Volumetric Analysis,"' 1890, 124; Fraps,
G. S., see bibliography.
^ Davis, R. O. E., and Bryan, H., "The Electrical Bridge for the De-
termination of Soluble Salts in Soils," Bull. 61, Bureau of Soils, 1910, where
reference is made to previous bulletins; Cannon, W. A., "On the Electrical
Resistance of Salt Plants and Solutions of Alkali Soils," The Plant World,
II, ia-14.
