I9I0.] ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF PLANTS. 461
centage of substance in solution necessary to cause plasmolysis varies
not only with the plasmolyzing substance, but also with the plant
used in the experiments. The protoplasm in some plants plasmolyzes
quickly ; in other cases with difficulty, so that stronger solutions are
necessary to produce a change in the more refractory plants. If
we know, therefore, that a certain percentage strength of sodium
chloride in solution will produce plasmolysis in say the cells of the
staminal hairs of Tradescantia, then if raw or diluted sea water be
used and a similar plasmolysis occurs, the percentage of sodium
chloride in the sea water must be equivalent to that of the salt solu-
tion known to produce similar plasmolytic effects. A comparative
table can be constructed by which the varying percentages of sea
water can be ascertained. An extensive literature, part of it noticed
in the bibliography, is concerned with such plasmolytic studies.'*
Hydrometric Method. — The use of the hydrometer in determin-
ing the salt content of salt marsh soils suggested itself to me, as a
simple but efficient method of making a phytogeographic survey of
the vegetation of salt marshes upon purely ecologic lines. The
advantage of the hydrometer is that it is light, can be carried easily
from place to place and lends itself to immediate use, the record
depending upon two simple readings, one of specific gravity and one
of temperature. The hydrometer is plunged into a vessel contain-
ing the water to be tested.
Styles of Hydrometers. — After a simple hydrometer had been
used in a number of preliminary tests, search was made for a hydrom-
eter which would record accurately the density of sea water. It was
found that there are many kinds of hydrometers in use to test acids,
alcohol, alkali, ammonia, bark liquor (tannometer ), beer, benzine,
chlorine, cider, coal oil, ether, gasoline, glycerine, milk (lactometer),
naptha oil, salt solutions (salimeter). silver solution, sugar, sugar
and syrup. Some are constructed with Baume's scales, others with
Richter and Trolle's scales and those used to test sugar wath Balling's
and Brix's scales. Finally, after testing several different kinds of
■* Drabble. E., and Lake, H., " The Osmotic Strength of Cell-sap in
Plants growing under Different Conditions," The Nezv Phytologist, October,
1905, 189; Duggar, B. M., "The Relation of Certain Marine Algae to
Various Salt Solutions," Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis. XVI., 473-479.
