462 HARSHBERGER— INFLUENXE OF SEA WATER [April 22,
hydrometers, one was obtained which fulfiUed all the conditions of
experimentation most perfectly. The hydrometer purchased of
Arthur H. Thomas Company is one designed to test the specific
gravity of liquids heavier than water. The scale reads from 0.995
to 1.065 ^"d is divided into single units and half units (Fig. i).
For example, beginning at i.oooo, the divisions of the scale read
as follows: 1.0005, i.ooio, 1.0015, 1.0020, 1.0025, 1-0030, 1.0035,
1.0040, 1.0045, T.0050. The last figure is the next prominent figure
on the scale printed in black letters. Altogether 140 separate read-
ings can be made from this scale, and if the observer wished to test
the salinity of the water of Salt Lake, Utah, the length of the scale
would have to be increased to the point indicated in Fig. i, and the
size of the bulbs would have to be increased correspondingly. There
are three bulbs blown in the hydrometer tube. The lower one is
the sinker with metallic mercury. The middle one carries the mer-
cury of the thermometer, which is inclosed in the third and upper
bulb. The thermometer scales reads from — 5° C. to +45° C, and
is divided into degrees with the fifteenth marked in red. With this
instrument temperature and specific gravity can be determined
simultaneously.
Corrcciions to Readings. — In actual use, the experimenter finds
that the hydrometric readings vary with the temperature of the
water, and that to make the results harmonious all of the readings
for specific gravity must be reduced to the uniform temperature of
15° C. No table exists by which the reduction can be made directly
without calculation. Such a table for all temperature degrees and
degrees of specific gravity is a desideratum. A mechanic rule, or
sliding scale, might be constructed from which corrected readings
might be taken directly by adjusting the movable parts of the scale
to corresponding degrees of specific gravity and of temperature. In
the absence of such a table and mechanic scale after a prolonged
search through theoretic text-books of chemistry, the following one
was discovered, which enabled me to standardize all of the readings
made by the hydrometer by reference to the specific gravity at
15° C. ' '
