I9II.] IN THE TWELFTH CENTURY. 499
dye-stuffs, and other oriental products were coveted and secured as
far as possible.
Life as a whole became more luxurious. In Germany four meals
a day supplanted the three of an earlier period ; and the ideal hero
was a mighty trencher-man. According to the Pseudo-Turpin,
Charles the Great ate " a whole quarter of a lamb, two fowls, a
goose, or a large portion of pork ; a peacock, a crane, or a whole
hare" at a meal. Luxury in dress, at least among the middle classes,
was not confined wholly to the oriental products. Fashion began its
despotic sway for Germany and other parts of western Europe in
the twelfth century, and those who could not afford the Byzantine
stuffs might in their domestic weaves imitate the prevailing styles
of long trains and full sleeves almost sweeping the ground. Shoes
for both men and women changed in style almost every year ; some-
times the toes were long and pointed, extending up toward the
knees ; at other times, short and broad. Other items of extrava-
gance might be mentioned, such as the enormous head-dresses, wigs
and other false hair ; but enough has been indicated.
Another great source of expenditure was building. The mon-
archs spent large sums on their castles and residence halls, and the
nobles and citizens followed their lead. Palaces, cathedrals, for-
tresses, country houses, town halls, hospitals and other edifices were
going up in all the leading centers. The cost of building was greatly
increased by the general substitution of stone for wood, and by the
frequent use of lead for the roofs. Great cjuantities of this metal
were exported from England to various places in France, and even
to other parts of Europe.
The second cause of the rise in the cost of living was the increase
in the amount of money available. Western Europe was just chang-
ing from Natural- to Gcldzcirfschaff. The author of the " Dialogus
de Scaccario," who wrote about the beginning of the last quarter
of the twelfth century, says that he had been told of the former
custom by which all payments to the treasury were made in kind,
and that he had seen a man who had witnessed the bringing in of
the provisions from the various parts of the country. In fact, in
the reign of Henry I. of England the sheriff's obtained their receipts
