500 MUNRO— THE COST OF LIVING [April 20,
for so many fowls, eggs, ducks, hogs, oxen, etc., or so much beer,
wool, corn or other grain. But this practice had not wholly gone
out under Henry II., in spite of the statement of the author of the'
" Dialogus." In the Pipe Roll of 1181-82, for instance, there is the
record of the payment by Cheshire of forty cows in addition to their
money dues. On the whole, however, all through western Europe
payments in money were superseding payments in kind, and this was
due mainly to the increase in the amount of the circulating medium.
Large numbers of coins were brought home from the East. In
the Scandinavian lands it is said that more than 25,000 Arabic coins
have been dug up in recent times. In the literature of the twelfth
century, Arabian gold is very frequently referred to and is contrasted
with the lighter-colored gold of the West. At the capture of Csesa-
rea in iioi (when the pepper was obtained) the Genoese secured
over 400,000 solidi of Poitou, and they received only one third of
the booty. The crusaders were always keen for gold. Whenever
they won a victory they sought anxiously for the precious metals ;
frequently they cut open the bodies of the slain enemies, because
they believed the latter had swallowed their coins ; sometimes they
made great heaps of the bodies and burned them in order to obtain
the gold which had been secreted. Many similar facts might be
cited which would illustrate the enrichment of the West by the coins
brought in from the East.
Far more important, probably, was the coinage and use of the
precious metals which had previously been hoarded, especially in
ornaments and works of art. Until about the close of the eleventh
century, there had been comparatively little occasion for a large
stock of ready money, but when the crusaders made their prepara-
tions for their long expeditions they needed large sums of money,
both for their equipment and for their journey. Even the partici-
l)ants in the so-called Peasants' Crusade took enough luoney with
them to ])ay all the expenses for several months, when they marched
under the leadership of Walter the Penniless and Peter the Hermit.
Because of the demand for coins, the mints of the West were very
active in the twelfth century, lender Henry I. of England. 94
minters were busy. In 1125 all the <J4 were called up for ])unish-
