502 MUNRO— THE COST OF LIVING [April 20.
wholly from his own money. Suger was able to acquire this enor-
mous fortune because of his great ability, and because he understood
the economic conditions of the time.
The average noble had no genius for acquiring wealth, and his
feudal income, which was fixed mainly by custom, appears to have
been stationary or even declining. With the establishment of better
order and the increase of the royal power, the nobles had lost both
their opportunity to plunder and the right of private coinage, which
greatly lessened their income. ( )ne feature of the Pipe Roll for
1181-1182 is very significant in this connection. About 300 debtors
to the king were listed from various parts of England, most of
whom had disappeared or were destitute of means, so that these
debts could not be collected. Apparently most of the individuals
came from the lesser nobility. The only resource for men of this
class was to borrow at usury. The usurers formed one of the two
classes of wrong-doers against whom the preaching of the twelfth
century was especially directed. They were evidently very numer-
ous, and they preyed chiefly upon the nobles. The merchants and
the peasants seldom had to resort to the usurers. There were many
Christians engaged in this business, but more Jews, and the latter
were to suft'er severely as the result of the economic conditions.
The rate of interest in England when the security was good was 2d.
on the pound each week, compounded once in six weeks, or about
52 per cent, a year.- Consequently if a knight borrowed 40 pounds,
a sum frequently in excess of the animal income of a knight, and
was unable to pay the interest, in a year he would owe 60 pounds
and i6s. ; in two years, over 92 pounds; in three years, over 140
pounds ; in five years, over 324 pounds, and the interest then would
be over 3 pounds a week. Probably the ill-feeling against the Jews
was due very largely to the anger of the borrowers who found them-
selves hopelessly involved in debt. There is a very decided change
in the attitude toward the Jews in the twelfth centurw and it is sig-
nificant that the preparations for the crusades, when ready money
was especially needed, were so frequently accompanied by a perse-
cution of the Jews; c. g., in 1096, in 1147, in 1189. Their great
" .^hlcl^ more was demanded when tlie secnritv was not sood.
