34 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
erosions and the mighty erect trees. The sand may have been
derived possibly from dunes such as those on the Rhine or Elbe.
Lesquereux knows of no peat composed of fucoids and marine
plants.
Jukes's'*" contribution to the discussion is not less important
than those by Rogers and Goeppert, as it is the first presentation of
the transport theory based on careful observation in an extended
area. It covered the ground so thoroughly that little aside from
detail or local coloring has been added since its publication.
Two opinions exist respecting the origin of coal beds ; the first
is that trees and plants were drifted into lakes, estuaries and shallow
seas, where, becoming waterlogged, they sank to the bottom and
became covered by the other accunudations ; the second is that the
plants were not drifted but grew and perished on the spot where
they have formed the coal, just as our peat bogs would form coal
if long buried under a great mass of earthy matters. While he does
not purpose to range himself as an advocate of either opinion, he
finds difficulties in the way of the latter which make him hesitate
to accept it exclusively. These, observed in the South Staffordshire
coal-field, he gives in detail.
1. The "rolls," "swells" or "horsebacks," which are ridge-like
accumulations of clay rising sometimes eight feet above the floor,
cannot be explained if the coal were formed at or above the level
of the water; but if coal and " ^well " alike were formed under
water no difficulty exists.
2. The " rock faults " in the Thick coal. These are of two
kinds. One, which he has not seen, is due to erosion of the coal
after deposit, the hollow being filled with the material deposited on
the coal. The other comes from contemporaneous deposition of silt
or sand with the coal, so that they alternate at short intervals. The
coal encloses cakes, layers or masses of sandstone, more or less inter-
mingled with it. One such " fault " seen by Jukes, was 286 yards
wide and it had been followed 400 yards without reaching the end.
The upper part of the coal Ijed passes over the sandstone. At the
■■'J. B. Jukes, Memoirs. Geol. Survey of Great Britain. "The South
Staffordshire Coal-tiekl,"' _'d cd., London, 1859, pp. 34-42, 44-49, 201-206.
The writer has not seen the first edition, published at least ten years earlier.
34
