191 1-] IX THE TWELFTH CENTURY. 503
wealth is shown by the fact that the Jews of England contributed
60,000 pounds towards the crusade of Henry II., and all others only
70,000. There is no estimate of the number who contributed this
60,000 pounds, but there had been a great increase since the begin-
ning of the reign of Henry II. At that time all Jews who died in
England had to be buried in the cemetery near London. At the end
of Henry II. 's reign almost every great town had a Jewish cemetery
in the suburbs.
The peasants both in town and country gained in prosperity
during the twelfth century. The agricultural laborers profited by
the opening of more markets for their products. They were some-
times able to hire the demesne land and even to rent the mill or the
whole manor, because the lord of the manor was in need of ready
money. In France many I'illciicHZ'Cs were established which ottered
special privileges in order to attract tenants. Suger's example in
emancipating his serfs was followed more and more frecjuently by
the kings and by the lords. In England many individuals escaped
to the towns, and if they were able to remain there unmolested for a
year and a day, they were free from all possibility of pursuit.
The merchants in the towns profited most. The Lombard cities
of Italy gained great wealth by the carrying both of crusaders and
of wares. The trade extended widely in western Europe. Fairs
were established where the commodities of the whole known world
were ofifered for sale by the merchants from the various countries,
who travelled about from place to place. The increase in the dues
which the lords received from these fairs bears witness to their
prosperity and to the enlarged trade, of which they were the scene.
Gross states that the gild merchant first appeared in England
about 1 100, and that the craft society first appeared on the continent,
as in England, early in the twelfth century. If we connect these
statements with Ashley's dictum. " Trade, as an independent occu-
pation, grew up first in the service of luxury." the importance of the
change in the standard of living will be apparent. The establish-
ment of uniform weights and measures, and the universality of
certain standards of money, such as the Cologne mark, the A'enetian
ducat, or the bezant also indicate the rapid advance in commerce.
