504 MUXRO— THE COST OF LIVING
The fabliaux, or " laughable stories told in verse," the especial
literature of the merchant class, began about the middle of the
twelfth century. In these tales class-consciousness is very evident.
Thev ridiculed the knights and the clergy, while always depicting
the latter as wealthy. Some of these fabliaux, which were written
for the merchants of the twelfth century, sound curiously modern,
as if they might have been told in the nineteenth century in our own
western states. They are frequently irreverent, and show an inde-
pendence of thought which is very noteworthy in this early period.
Their attitude toward women is entirely at variance with that of
the courtly literature of the age. In fact, the merchants were think-
ing for themselves, and were no longer willing to be subservient to
the nobility and the clerg}-. They were rapidly becoming important
political factors, and were winning recognition from the monarchs.
They were vying in comfort and luxury with the nobles, and fre-
quently ineffective sumptuary laws were enacted to restrict these
nouvcaux riches.
As yet too little attention has been paid to this change in the
standard of living and its eft'ects. In this paper an attempt has been
made to set forth only a few of the facts, merely to indicate the
nature and importance of the problem. Every one of the subjects
here discussed is susceptible of elaboration, and needs to be worked
out in detail for each country of western Europe and each period in
the twelfth century. The material is voluminous : as indicated
above, the legal documents should be utilized for the definite state-
ments which they contain, and the literature of the age should be
laid under contribution for its information as to the character, cus-
toms and points of view of the various classes. The chronicles un-
fortunately will furnish comparatively little, because they generally
give only the unusual events ; statements about prices drawn from
them are frequently of little value, because the figures are given on
account of their extreme highness or lowness. This field, as a whole,
oft'ers a good op|)ortunity for many monographs, and such work is
essential before we can understand the economic history of the
century which was most important in the advance of western Europe.
U.M\KRsnv OK Wisconsin^
Madison. Wis.
