191 1.] AGAINST THE CURSE ON EVE. 507
Kenites may have been a semi-agricultural tribe settled near Elath-^
before they emigrated with the Edomite ancestors of the Jews to
Canaan. Afterwards there may have been some religious differ-
ences : the Kenites clung to their vegetable oft'erings,-*' whereas the
men of Judah-" sacrificed lambs. This led to an expulsion of the
Kenites from the region of Judah.
The introductory verse, connecting Cain and Abel with Adam
and Eve, is a subsequent addition. The name Cain is explained
there (Genesis, iv., i) as being connected with the verb qaiidh, to
produce.^'^ When Eve bare Cain, she said, I have produced a man
as well as Jhvh :-'' just as Jh\h fashioned me from the rib He
took from Adam, so I have produced now a new human being. —
Some people think that, when the Lord created Eve, He did not take
a rib from Adam, but his backbone. ]\Iost of us have all our ribs.
At any rate, woman is not a side-issue.
The story of Cain and Abel was originally simply : Abel was a
keeper of sheep, and Cain a tiller of the ground. Cain offered
vegetable oft'erings to Jhvh, whereas Abel sacrificed the firstlings of
his flock. Abel's sacrifices were more acceptable to Jhvh. This
displeased Cain, and Cain said to Abel, Let us go into the field;'-*
and when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother
Abel, and slew him.
The field was a tribal battle-ground where the Cainites smote the
Abelites, but afterwards they were overpowered and expelled from
the territory of the sheepmen of Judah."''
A later theologian has inserted two verses (Genesis, iv., 6, 7)
which are translated in the Authorized Version as follows : And the
Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth ? and why is thy counten-
ance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and
if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thcc shall be
his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. There is no connection
between this last clause and the preceding one, and the translation
sin lieth at the door is impossible.
The Ancient Aversions show that the text of this theological in-
terpolation was corrupt at an early period, and the rendering given
in the Greek Bible echoes the tradition that the feud between Cain;
