508 HAUPT— AN ANCIENT PROTEST [April 22,
and Abel was due to some ritual differences. The Septuagint ren-
ders: Is it not so? If thou offerest rightly, but doest not cut in
pieces rightly, thou hast sinned ? Be still ! — The Syriac Bible has :
Behold, if thou doest well, thou receivest ; and if thou doest not
well, at the door sin croucheth. — We find the same rendering in the
\^ulgate : Nonne si bene egeris, recipies; sin autcm male, statini in
foribus peccatuni aderit. — The Targum paraphrases: If thou doest
thy work well, thou wilt be pardoned ; but if thou doest not thy work
well, for the day of judgment the sin is laid up, ready to take
vengeance upon thee, if thou doest not repent; but if thou repentest,
thou shalt be forgiven."^ — All these explanations are untenable.
The original text seems to have been: If thou art good, I shall
receive thee graciously; but if thou art a sinner,^- I shall not accept
thy offering.^^ The final clause, And tinto thee shall be his desire,
and thou shalt rule over him, has no connection with the preceding
theological interpolation, but is a gloss protesting against the state-
ment in the preceding chapter: Thy desire shall be to thy husband,
and he shall rule over thec.^^ Genesis, iii., 16, states: Unto the
woman He said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy sigh-
ing ;2 in pain thou wilt bear children; nevertheless thy desire is^ to
thy husband, and he will rule over thee.
Some one — possibly a woman. ^^ or a man under the influence of
a woman, a species of the genus Homo, which is common — added to
this statement in the margin: His desire is unto thee, and thou zvilt
rule over him.^^ The story of the Fall of Man and the legend of
Cain and Abel may have been written in two parallel columns.^'
The glossator, who added the theological interpolation in the legend
of Cain and Abel, and the author of the polemical gloss to Genesis,
iii., 16 may have written their remarks in the space between the two
columns. Afterwards these two marginal glosses crept into the
text, the " sufifragettic " gloss to Genesis, iii., 16 being appended to
the theological interpolation after Genesis, iv., 5.
The word desire or longing is used also in the Biblical love-
songs, commonly known as the Song of Solomon, where the maiden
says of her lover :
My dear one's am I ; he is mine, too ; for my love he is longing. **
