191 1.] AGAINST THE CURSE OX EVE. 509
The corresponding word in Arabic (sJiauq) means passionate love.
If man eats his bread in the sweat of his face till he returneth unto
the ground, and if women bring forth children born to suffer, it is
due to the forbidden fruit. Schiller says,^** the fabric of the world
is held together by hunger and by love.**'
Notes.
^ See my paper Some Difficult Passages in the Cuneiform Ac-
count of the Deluge in the Journal of the American Oriental So-
ciety, vol. xxxi., fifth page of the article, 1. 2. Cf. below, n. 13.
- Instead of heronck, thy conception, or thy pregnancy, we must
read hagigek, thy sighing; cf. Psalms, v., 2; xxxix., 4. The Greek
Bible has rbv crrevay fiov gov. Hegyonek would have a dift'erent
meaning, and ycgonck or c^aratek could not have been corrupted to
heronck.
^ Not shall he or zinll he; see my remarks in the Journal of the
American Oriental Society, vol. xxv., p. 71, n. i; vol. xxxi., fourth
page, below, of the article cited in n. i. The last two clauses may
represent an observation of the narrator ; cf. below, n. 36.
* The preceding verse, the so-called protevangelium or proto-
gospcl, should be rendered : / 1^111 put enmity heturen thee and the
zcoman. and hetzceen thy seed and her seed; it (that is, her seed, the
human race) zinll crush (lit. tread down, tread under foot, Assyr.
scpu) thy head, and thou zcilt snap at its heel. There will be per-
petual warfare between snakes and the human race ; all human
beings loathe snakes. The Messianic interpretation of this passage
is unwarranted. See my Note on the Protevangelium in the Johns
Hopkins University Circulars, No. 106 (June, 1893), p. 107: cf. my
remarks in the Xachrichtcn of the Royal Society of Gottingen,
April 25, 1883, p. 102; also Guxkel, Genesis (1910), p. 20.
^ See my remarks in the Journal of Bihlical Literature, vol. xxi.,
p. 55, 1. 8; p. 66, n. 21; Haupt, Bihlische LiehesUeder (Leipzig,
1907), p. 66.
*= \\q use this term now especially of illicit love. In Ceylon the
fruit of Ervatamia dichotoma is called forhidden fruit or Eve's
apple. The forbidden fruit in the legend of the Fall of Man is, it
