I9II.] AGAINST THE CURSE ON EVE. 511
^^ See my paper on ^lidian and Sinai in the Zcitschrift dcr
Deutschen Morgenldndischcn GcseUschaft, vol. Ixiii., p. 519, 1. 25.
^- Compare above, note 5.
^" The serpent symbohzes carnal desire, sexual appetite, con-
cupiscence. This is the original sin which has been transmitted to
all descendants of Adam ; only the innocents are free from it.
Coleridge {Aids to Reflexion, 1825) held that Adam's fall was a
typical experience repeated afresh in every son of Adam. Mutato
iwiitiiie. de te fabiila Harra/ar; see Hastings' Dictionary of the Bible.
vol. i., p. 842". In the well known Assyrian relief from Nimriid,
representing the fight with the dragon, the penis of the monster is
a serpent; see the plate in Geo. Smith, The Chaldean Account of
Genesis, edited by Sayce (London, 1880). The serpent in the story
of the Fall of Man is a later addition ; in the original form of the
legend Eve was the sole seductress; Eve means serpent (Heb.
Hazvzi'dh^ Aram, hiz^'ya, snake. Arab, hdyyah). See n. 29 to my
paper cited above, n. i.
^*This legend explains the institution of tattooed tribal marks
and the institution of blood-revenge (cf. nn. 15 and 17). It illus-
trates also the superiority of nomadic animal sacrifices compared
with agricultural bloodless offerings (cf. n. 26).
^■' Kenite means descendant of Kain or Cain; Cain is the eponym
ancestor of the Kenites.
^° See Genesis, iv., 15; cf. Haupt, The Book of Canticles, p. 41 ;
Biblischc Liebeslieder, p. 61.
^' Cf. our Uncle Sam. John Bull, Columbia, Germania, &c. A
Bedouin tribe Cain (Qain) dwelt in the desert of Sinai and the
neighboring districts about six centuries after Christ ; see Xoldeke's
article on Amalek in the Eucyclopccdia Biblica, col. 130.
^^See Genesis, iv., 23, 24; cf. my paper on Closes' Song of
Triumph in the American Journal of Semitic Languages, vol. xx.,
p. 164.
^^Cf. I Samuel, xxvii., 10. The Kenites lived with the Amale-
kites, but they were on friendly terms with the men of Judah,
whereas the Amalekites were perpetually at feud with the Judahites,
cf. I Samuel, xv., 6 and Judges, i., 16 (see below, n. 21). In the
