514 HAUPT— AN ANCIENT PROTEST [April 22,
on Genesis (1910) : It is quite conceivable that in the early days of
the settlement in Canaan the view was maintained among the
Hebrews that the animal offerings of their nomadic religion were
superior to the vegetable oft'erings made to the Canaanite Baals.
"" Cain may be connected with the Ethiopic taqdnya which means
to till the ground; cf. the Pachomian rules in Dillmann's Ethiopic
chrestomathy, p. 60, 1. 4. Taqdnya means also to zvorship God; cf.
Arab, qdnata (quniit) and Lat. colere. Stems tertice y and medico y
often interchange ; cf. Ethiopic qdndya, to sing, and Arab, qdinah,
songstress, Heb. qindli, elegy. For Ethiopic qent%y, servant, we
have in Arabic: qain-, plur. qiydn. In Arabic, qain means also
smith, metal-zvorker, Syr. qaindyd. Some scholars, therefore, be-
lieve that the Kenites were a tribe of wandering smiths. Sayce
says (in Hastings' Dietionary of the Bible, vol. ii., p. 834'') that the
Kenites resembled the gipsies of modern Europe as well as tne
traveling tinkers or blacksmiths of the ^Middle Ages. Skinxer
states (on p. 113 of his commentary on Genesis) that there are some
low-caste tribes among the Arabs, who live partly by hunting, partly
by coarse smith-work and other gipsy labor in the Arab encamp-
ments ; they are forbidden to be cattle-keepers and are excluded
from intermarriage with the regular Bedouins, though on friendly
terms with them; they are the only tribes of the Arabian desert
that are free to travel where they will, ranging practically over the
whole peninsula from Syria to Yemen.
The legend of Cain and Abel may have connected the name Cain
with the allied stem qinnc, to be jealous, envious, passionate, just
as the name Abel (see n. 24) was combined with hdbl (for hdbil)
breath, transitoriness. The saying of Ecclesiastes, Vanity of vani-
ties (that is, How utterly transitory is everything!) is in Hebrew
hdbcl hdbalim; see Haupt, Koheleth (Leipzig, 1905), p. i; Ec-
clesiastes (Baltimore, 1905), p. 34, n. 2.
'* Lit. icith Jhvh. Also we use xvith in the sense of like, an-
alogously to. Shakespeare says. As if icith Circe she zvould change
my shape. Cf. the Critical Notes on the Heb. text of Genesis,
in the Polychrome Bible, p. 118. My interpretation of this diffi-
cult passage has been adopted by Cheyne, Encyclopccdia Biblica,
