19II-] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 37
Measures, coals included, were deposited by one connected operation
of the same forces acting in obedience to the same physical laws on
similar but slightly differing materials, through an indefinite but
immensely long period of time."
Dawson spent many years in investigation of the Acadian coal
fields, but devoted his attention especially to the South Joggins
region where exposures are almost complete in a section of more
than ii.ooo feet thickness. He visited that locality with Lyell in
1852 and 1853 and afterwards made detailed study of each coal bed
as well as of each ancient soil, subjecting samples from all to careful
macroscopic and microscopic examination. The results of his
studies were given in several memoirs and the details were pub-
lished in the second edition of " Acadian Geology." In his first
elaborate memoir'*^ he called attention to the gradual passage from
coal to the roof shales through laminae composed of coaled leaves
and flattened trunks, separated by clay. He expresses the opinion
that erect forests explain to some extent the accumulation in situ.
The sandstone casts of Sigillaricc are enclosed in bark converted
into caking bituminous coal, while remains of the woody matter
remain as mineral charcoal at the bottom of the cast. A series of
such stumps with flattened bark and prostrate trunks may consti-
tute a rudimentary bed of coal, of which many occur in the South
Joggins section. He is convinced that the structure of the coal
accords with the view that it accumulated by growth and not by
driftage and that accumulation was very slow. He regards Sigil-
laria and Calaiiiitcs as the chief contributors to the formation of
coal. The woody matter remains mostly as mineral charcoal, while
the cortex and such other portions as were submerged gave the
compact coal. This memoir is concerned, for the most part, with
the origin of coal.
In a later memoir,''- he considered especially the subject of accu-
mulation. After describing the formations and the physical condi-
" J. \\'. Dawson. " On the Vegetable Structures in Coal,"' O. J. G. S.,
Vol. XV., 1859. pp. 638. 640.
^' '■ On Conditions of the Deposition of Coal, more Especially as Illus-
trated by the Coal Formations of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick," Q. J.
G. S., Vol. XXII., 1866, pp. 95-104.
37
