520 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
Each of these topics will be considered only in its relation to the
main problem.
The Effect of Floods upon a Cover of Vegetation.
A torrent dashing through a narrow gorge is the poet's symbol
of resistless force ; a great river in flood, bearing on its surface
houses, trees and other floating materials in prodigious quantity,
seems possessed of almost illimitable power for destruction. These
conditions, so familiar to all, have led to the conception that, in the
eroding and transporting power of streams in flood, one can find
explanation for the origin not only of sandstone and other inorganic
deposits but also for that of coal and lignite beds interstratified with
them. So much importance has been assigned to this explanation
bv several authors, that the phenomena must be considered in detail.
The Work of Torrents. — The torrent in full flood is an interest-
ing spectacle but its importance in this connection is confined chiefly
to its bearing on the origin of inorganic sediments.
Long ago De Luc^ described deposits made by torrents as resem-
bling a much flattened loaf of sugar and he employed the term
" cone " to distinguish them from the talus at foot of clifl^s. When
a stream ceases the cutting down of its bed. the formation of a cone
ends and vegetation takes possession of the surface, even of steep
slopes alongside of the stream. Eventually the surface is covered
with a thin coat of soil and men settle upon it. Such a cone was
seen by De Luc on the right bank of the river Arc, en route from
Mount Cenis into Italy. It extends from Aigue-belle to Saint-Jean
de Maurienne and the line around its base is nearly three miles. It
is high against the rocky wall and the surface is comparatively steep.
Its history is the same with that of many others. The stream cuts
a channel in the cone ; occasionally, during a great flood, the banks
are overflowed, but the injury is not enough to drive away the inhabi-
tants. A fall from the walls of the gorge forms a talus against
which the stream flows; water finds its way through the sands and
' J. A. DeLuc, " Lettres physiques et morales sur I'histoire de la terre e*^
de I'honime," Vol. II., 1780, pp. 67-68.
118
