191 ■•] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 523
in another connection, are equally in place here. That river, issuing
from the Malaspina glacier as a swift flood, lOO feet wide and 15
to 20 feet deep, has invaded a forest and surrounded the trees with
sands and gravel to a depth of many feet. That current, rapid
enough to carry a great load of very coarse material, was not strong
enough to uproot the trees and evidently it could not break off the
trunks until decay was well advanced. Russell's photograph shows
the conditions distinctly.
Smyth^ has described conditions in the Adirondack mountains of
New York, which are of no little importance in this connection and
they will be utilized in the sequel, as the character of the region is
very like that imagined for some limnic basins in Europe. Many
small lakes exist in that region, varying from a few rods to three
or four miles in the longer diameter. They are of post-glacial origin
and, in many cases, are surrounded by high hills of metamorphic
rock, whence streams with rapid fall flow in comparatively narrow
valleys. Big Rock lake is typical. It is a mile and a half long, three
fourths of a mile wide and is fed by streams which carry much sedi-
ment and by their deposits are changing the outline of the lake. The
new area is a level marshv meadow, about a foot above the water,
covered with a heavy growth of grass and carrying some small bal-
sams and tamaracks. The lakes show every stage from pond to
meadow and one of them has been changed throughout into meadow,
through which its stream meanders on the way to Big Rock lake, one
mile away. After heavy rains, water flows over the meadows to a
depth of a foot or more, leaving a sediment of varying thickness;
but the torrential streams feeding the lake, though flowing through
gorges, whose steep walls are more or less densely timbered, rarely
bring down trees or other vegetation.
Torrents carrying no debris do as little injury to vegetation as
to the rocks over which they flow. The writer has recognized this
many times in the Rocky and other mountain areas of the western
United States. Clear creek in Colorado, formed by the union of
streams from Gray, Torrey and other high peaks of the Front range,
^ C. H. Smyth, "Lake Filling in the Adirondack Region," Amer. Geolo-
gist. Vol. XL, 1893, pp. 85-90.
121
