524 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
is subject to abrupt rise in the early summer, when hot days cause
rapid mehing of the snow on those peaks. The upper streams pass
over hard rocks and among huge masses which choke the channels,
so that, below the union, the creek, following a rocky, mostly narrow
gorge and with rapid fall, carries even in great flood comparatively
little sand or silt. A rise of 10 feet within 3 or 4 hours is of fre-
quent occurrence. The low narrow " bottom," though so often
overflowed by rapidly moving water, is grassy and bears some shrubs.
In some places, where the canyon widens and the stream, under ordi-
nary conditions, flows less rapidly, one finds petty islands of detritus
covered by shrubs, some of them more than 15 feet high. Clearly
these plants are torrent-proof, they have maintained their place from
birth. Similar conditions were observed on many other streams of
like character.
A Cover of Fcgctat-ioii Protects against Erosion. — Within any
given district of moderate size, some streams are turbid while others
arc limpid even in flood time. The water may be limpid or turbid
in dilTerent portions of the same stream. As the rainfall is the same
throughout there must be local causes for the variation.
The process of erosion begins with the impact of a raindrop ;
but that impact is incft'ective if the drop fall on more or less elastic
material. Thus it is that a cover of decayed vegetable matter, a
coating of hunuis, protects a slope against the erosive power of rain-
fall ; it protects existing vegetation from removal and it may enable
plants to regain hold on spaces l)are(l by fire or other agents, even
though the slope he abrupt.
Ashe* studied an area which has great variety of soils, as the
section extends from tlie Archean to the Quaternary. Soils from
partly mctaniorpltosed sandy shales or from mica schist oft'er little
resistance to erosion : in some cases they cannot nourish a sod but
each supports its own ly])e of trees. Denuded of forest, the surface
is gashed quickly 1)\ rains, but when forested it loses little. The
accunuilation of litter or lumuis within the Potomac area is small
' W. W. Ashe, " Relations of Soils and Forest Cover to Quality and
Quantitj' of Surface Water in the Potomac I'.asin,"' l'. S. Gcul. Sufvcy,
Jl'aler Supply and Irrigation Paper, 192, 1907, pp. 29<>-335.
122
