38 STEVENSON— FORAIATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
lions observed in the numerous coal beds, he presents these con-
clusions :
( I ) The occurrence of Stigmaria under nearly every bed of coal
proves accumulation /;/ situ; the sediments between the beds prove
transport of mud and other materials, the conditions being those
observed in swampy deltas. (2) True coal consists mostly of bark
of Sigillarid and other trees, leaves of ferns and Cordiates with
other debris, fragments of mineral charcoal, all grown and accu-
mulated where they are found. (3) Microscopic structure and
chemical composition of cannel and earthy bitumen as well as of the
more highly bituminous and carbonaceous shales prove that they
were fine vegetable mud as in the ponds and lakes of modern swamps.
(4) A few undcrclays consist of this vegetable mud, but most of
them are bleached by drainage. They contain not sulphide but car-
bonate of iron; rain, not seawater, percolated through them. (5)
Most of the erect and prostrate trees had become hollow shells of
bark before final cmljedding and their wood had been broken into
cubical pieces of mineral charcoal ; land snails, galley worms and
reptiles were caught in them. There is much mineral charcoal on
surfaces in all the larger coal beds. (6) Sigillaria roots have much
resemblance to rhizomas of certain aquatic plants, but structurally
are identical with cycad roots, which the stems resemble. SigillaricB
grew on soils supporting conifers, Lcpidodciidra, Cordaitcs and
ferns, which could not grow in water. There is remarkable absence
of aquatic vegetation. (7) The occurrence of marine or brackish
water forms is no evidence of sub-aqueous formation. The same
condition is observed in the case of submerged forests.
The channels, sand or gravel ridges, ine(jualities of floor observed
in coal beds are familiar features of modern swamps. The lamina-
tion of coal is not aqueous lamination ; it is the superposition of suc-
cessive generations of more or less decayed trunks and beds of
leaves. It is very dififerent from the lamination observed in cannels
and in the carbonaceous shales.
The doctrine that coal is composed of the debris of land plants,
though maintained by nearly all students, did not pass unchallenged.
As far back as 181 5, Parrott suggested that seaweeds had contrib-
38
