191 1] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 525
because of climatic conditions, but it suffices to protect these soils
on all except the steepest slopes. Limestone soils, occupying much
of the area, are very apt to " wash " when under cultivation, but
where covered with forest even the steepest slopes retain their cover
of humus and the run-off water is never turbid. Sandstone soils
vary much in resistance, when bared, but where they are protected
by a thin cover of humus the waste is insignificant. The water of
small streams flowing from forest mountain-sheds is clear and pure.
The great resistance offered by humus is apparent from the figures
given by Ashe. Pines growing on poor soils, rarely yield more than
2 inches ; yet this protects all except the steepest slopes. Chestnut
oak and white oak give but 3 inches ; they too grow on poor soils,
which, when exposed, are torn away rapidly. Other woods give
from 5 to 6 inches of litter, which is so absorbent that for several
days after a rain one can squeeze water from it as from a sponge.
Ashe's observations show that this vegetable litter, in the semi-
decomposed condition, is so interwoven that it not only protects the
underlying soil but also itself resists removal as does a well-rooted
sod. The streams coming from the humus covered area are free
from vegetable matter, aside from occasional twigs and, at times,
some soluble matters leached from the humus.
The White mountains of New Hampshire illustrate well the
incompetence of rainfall to remove living vegetation. The rock in
that region is mostly granite and the soil, formed since the glacial
period, is very largely humus. The slopes are abrupt and the walls
of gorges frequently show more than 50 degrees ; but most of the
area below timber line has a dense cover of vegetation, largely spruce.
Yet rains have always been frequent and many times almost deluge-
like. The covering of humus is undisturbed by those rains ; even
wiiere lumbermen have cut away the forest and left their litter and
the humus exposed to the fury of storms, one finds little evidence
of removal.
Cloudbursts or extraordinary downpours of rain have occurred
many times within this area. C. H. Hitchcock has described the
flood in the Flume at Franconia, which washed away the great
boulder which had been dropped by the retreating ice and had re-
123
