626 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3.
mained suspended in the Flume. That huge mass has never been
found. Yet, aside from a landsHde or two, the terrific rainfall left
the vegetation on the steep slopes unscarred. In June of 1903, a
cloudburst of unusual severity broke on the northern part of the
White mountains. The roads were gullied and rendered impassable ;
bridges, large and small, were swept away throughout the region as
the streams were filled beyond the high water mark of spring
freshets ; sheets of water poured down naked rock surfaces in many
portions of the abrupt spaces and landslides of limited extent were
produced where the slope was covered with loose material. But this
vast flood of water did practically no injury to the forest-covered
slopes; even debris left on the mountain side by tree-choppers was
almost undisturbed.^
But the most noteworthy evidence in this region is found on the
areas wdiich have been burned over. When a forest fire destroys
the soil near the top of a divide or on a very abrupt slope, the
residue is removed quickly by rain and the granite is exposed. But
if the organic matter has not been destroyed, the soil resists ordinary
rains even on steep slopes. If drenching rains be delayed for a few
weeks, the surface gains a cover of fireweed {Erechtitcs hieraci-
folia) and rain is powerless. This growth is succeeded in the fol-
lowing season by a dense cover of raspberry, fern and other plants,
among which a cherry takes root to become the characteristic form
in the third season. Birches, maples and poplars are prominent
during the next season and within five years the spruces make their
appearance. If drenching rains follow quickly after a forest fire,
the process of restoration is merely retarded, it is not prevented.
Glenn*^ studied the problem throughout the southern Appa-
lachians, an area of 400 by 150 miles, and his studies were extended
to another area farther north, 200 by 50 miles. The examination
was continued westward for a long distance down the Tennessee
river, so that the investigation embraced every type from the bold
° Communicated by C. A. Snell of Maiden, Mass., who examined the
whole area within four days after the disaster occurred.
" L. C. Glenn, " Denudation and Erosion in the Southern Appalachian
Region," U. S. Geol. Survey, Professional Paper, y2, 191 1, pp. 15-18, 23, 24,
59, 93, 96, 99.
]24
