'911 J STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 527
mountains, cut by canyon-like gorges, to broad river valleys with
wide bottoms in which the streams meander. This study concerns
also some matters to be considered hereafter, but they are included
here for convenience of reference.
Glenn asserts that, in forested areas, erosion is at its minimum,
for the soil is protected by the litter from impact of raindrops. As
drops move down the slope, they are checked by the litter or are
absorbed by it, and the rainfall moves so slowly through the mass
that for hours after rainfall, the cover is full of water. Even such
gullies as were seen have their bottoms covered with litter and
plants, showing that the erosion, by which they have been produced,
is very slow. Streams flowing from the forested regions rise grad-
ually during heavy rains and fall to normal more gradually, because
the litter retards flow. Such streams, even when highest, are, as a
rule, but slightly discolored and that discoloration is caused in great
part by macerated fragments of leaves and decaying plants, for they
carry little mineral matter in suspension. Some of them remain
wholly clear even when swollen to far beyond their normal stage.
But removal of the forest brings about an abrupt change. The pro-
tective efficiency of even a root-matted soil is evident, for when a
tree is uprooted or a road is cut, so as to break the continuity, erosion
begins at once. The contrast between forested and denuded areas
is so striking that no argument is needed. Grass-covered slopes may
be destroyed by breaks made when a cow crosses them after pro-
longed rainfall, but erosion can be checked by covering the surface
with litter, held in place by brush ; weeds and bushes spring up
quickly. The writer adds his testimony in confirmation of these
observations by Glenn, for he has seen many thousands of acres of
cleared land, which had been abandoned after a few years of culti-
vation and which now are covered by a dense growth of hard wood —
and this on the steep slopes of the Mrginian Appalachians.
Glenn's volume is a commentary on the protective influence of
vegetation and on its resistance to erosion. The changes in the rivers
since the removal of forests from their headwaters, the increased
erosion, the increased destructiveness of floods owing to the greate*-
load of inorganic matter are set forth clearly on almost every page.
125
