1911.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 529
But ill January, February and IMarch, when the absorbed moisture
in the htter was great, the contrast still remained, as appears from
the second column, where the run-off from the forested areas aver-
ages only three eighths while that from the non-forested area was
nineteen twentieths.
The great dunes of Bermuda have their advance checked by vege-
tation. A network of vines creeps over the surface and breaks the
force of the wind. Clumps of grass take root in the open spaces
and, within a brief period, the heavy rains can do little more than
to move the sand a few inches to be piled against the obstacles.
Vegetation holds its place on the loose materials until, at length, a
dense growth of oleander and cedar render the deluge-like rains
wholly ineffective. The same condition exists along railroads within
the drift covered areas of the United States. ]\Iany of the through
cuts are in drift gravels, with no trace of consolidation, yet their
walls show the steady advance of plants in spite of rain and the
steep slope.
The resistance which vegetation offers to erosion is manifest on
a grand scale in the tropics, where growth is luxuriant and the rain-
fall extreme. The writer has had opportunity to examine at close
range fully 200 miles of the Venezuelan and Colombian coast, much
of Trinidad, about 50 miles of the Jamaican coast, as well as much
of the Pacific coast of Central America. There are some localities
where the rock is not consolidated and vegetation cannot maintain
itself. Such as gains rooting toward the close of the wet season is
killed during the dry season and rain finds only the unprotected sur-
face on which to act. But such areas are of limited extent. The
slopes along the coast are usually quite steep and the stratified rocks
commonly dip at a high angle. Landslides, owing to this structure,
are not rare and they leave a scar on the surface which persists for
years ; but aside from those merely temporary interruptions, vege-
tation is practically continuous on even the steepest slopes. The
Jamaican conditions are especially instructive. Where vegetation
was destroyed by fire in some extensive areas, Guinea grass has
taken possession of even the steepest slopes, giving great spaces of
bright green, which are notable features of the scenery — and this in
127
