530 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
spite of the excessive rainfall. During November of 1909, the rain-
fall in the mountains of Jamaica was of unprecedented volume, there
being at one locality 120 inches in eight days, while in others there
were 20 to 30 inches within one day. Banana plantations, with
unprotected soil, were washed down the hills and the plants became
projectiles with which the flood destro}"ed vegetation on the low-
land; but the forest remained almost uninjured and the litter cover-
ing the surface around the trees was practically undisturbed. Where
the land was protected by trees, damage was confined to gullies
digged by fallen trunks pushed forward by the water. These gullies
widened in soft materials and trees, tumbled into the torrent, were
carried to the lowland, where they were deposited, pele mele, with
mineral matter on the cultivated land. Nowhere in the whole area
w^as there evidence that rainfall did any serious injury to either
forests or the forest litter.
Cornet's'-* observations in the Congo region are to the same efifect.
Where the dry season is prolonged, plants are practically dried bv
desiccation, so that the first rains do great damage ; in such localities,
this is so serious that vegetation cannot re-establish itself. Rut,
near the equator where rains are almost constant, the forest quickly
reoccupies areas which man has cleared. Even in regions with a
long dry season, the bottoms of the valleys, owing to dampness, be-
come forested and that puts an end to the action of the wild waters
— it may cause even diversion of streams. Clearing of forests lays
the humus open and it is carried ofi^ to be spread elsewhere, there to
enrich the soil. This actually occurs in many valleys, giving what
Dupont has termed tcrroioir; but in the broad alluvial valleys, where
humidity prevails throughout the year, vegetable detritus accumu-
lates on the surface and gives a formation of humus sitr place.
It matters not where one looks, the conditions are the same.
Geikie,"^ familiar with the Highlands of Scotland, where bogs in the
heath stage cover great areas, says that the surface of a district pro-
' J. Cornet, " Les depots superiiciels et I'erosion continentale dans le
bassin du Congo," Btill. Soc. Belize de Geologic, Vol. X.. 1897, Mem., pp.
44-116.
'".A. Ceikie, "Textbook of Geology," 3d Ed., London, 1.S93, p. 475.
T28
