19"] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 533
are on a larger scale. The almost vertical walls of railroad cuts
through hard rock are adorned by small plants growing in clefts or
even by trees in similar position. These have grown in spite of
rains, which threatened to wash away the little soil on which they
depend. But the rains are as powerless against plants in railroad
cuts as they are against plants growing in like conditions on the walls
of Alpine gorges or of canyons in the Sierra and the Rockies.
River Floods. — The floods of rivers have much in common with
those of torrents, for most rivers are more or less torrential in their
upper reaches ; but there are noteworthy differences, aside from those
due to volume. The topographical conditions required for torrents
are wholly unlike those amid which great rivers exist. Torrents
flow, for the most part, in narrow valleys with here and there some
wider portions in which are insignificant floodplains ; but rivers
usually flow in broader valleys, have less rapid descent and are bor-
dered frequently by extensive floodplains. Rivers entering the At-
lantic along the eastern coast of the United States empty in most
cases into estuaries, which occupy the drowned lower portion of the
valley and conceal the floodplain ; but the condition is different in the
vast interior basin where many great rivers find discharge through
the Mississippi channel. Each important tributary of that stream
flows for long distances through broad lowlands, which fuse with
those of the Mississippi, extending from above Cairo to the Gulf of
Mexico and constantly increasing in width toward the south. The
coast and the interior types must be considered separately. Illustra-
tions of river floods will be selected mostly from those of the United
States, partly because the conditions seem to be unfamiliar to many,
and partly because the topographical relations of the central Missis-
sippi region are much like those supposed by some to have existed
during the coal-forming periods.
Rivers of the Atlantic Coast. — Shaler,^^ in describing several
northward flowing streams of eastern Massachusetts, says that the
floodplain is in direct communication with the present margin of the
river, so that a very slight rise sends water over the whole of it.
^^ N. S. Shaler, " Fluviatile Swamps of New England," Amer. Journ. Sci.,
3d Ser., Vol. XXXIII., 1887, p. 203.
131
