534 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3.
The streams, though draining comparatively small areas, carry an
enormous amount of water in flood time. At low water, the river
extends for some distance through reedy flats on each side of the
flowing stream. The swamps, which are without Spliagnmn, may
be divided into three classes : those, formed in areas so frequently
overflowed and so penetrated with water that they cannot afford a
site for perennial shrubs, are occupied by rushes in the' lower por-
tions and by grasses in the upper ; those, occupying a narrow belt in
which the grasses give place to various bushy and low growing
plants, among which alders are the prevalent forms ; then, in some
places, a third class, a wide field of swamps, really very wet woods,
covered with water not more than twice a year and usually two or
three feet above the ordinary inundations. The vegetation is con-
tinuous from the lower bench to the wet woods and it is able to resist
the flood, though the mass of water is very great and the current very
rapid. During flood these streams are almost torrential.
The rivers of Maine tell the same story. The Androscoggin,
Kennebec and Penobscot are all liable to sudden floods and the fierce
rush of water is reinforced by logs cut for timber. But the banks
of those streams are covered with bushes and trees to within a foot
and a half of the August stage of water; the flood, though aided by
the logs, has not succeeded in tearing out these trees, but the trees
have seized the logs, which may be seen for long distances entangled
in the bushes. Islands in the Androscoggin have trees 40 feet high,
against which the floating timber has lodged.
The Connecticut river, draining a great part of the White moun-
tains as well as of the Massachusetts highlands, flows for nearly 200
miles in a broad valley, rising in terraces. It is subject to great
floods, for much of the rugged region around its headwaters has
been cleared. The writer has ridden several times for a distance
of 150 miles along the banks soon after high floods, which had over-
flowed the second bottom, 15 to 20 feet above ordinary low water.
Loose material, twigs and fallen branches, which had become dry
but not decayed, had been removed to be deposited in eddies or on
the bottoms. Ikit trees and bushes growing on the lower bottom or
on the banks down to within a foot of low water, were not removed.
1.32
