I9II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 535
Many of those are old trees which had withstood floods for more
than a century, others were very young ; but the age mattered nothing,
the saphng resisted as well as did the older tree, provided only that
it was rooted in material that would not soften during the flood.
One great flood had poured over the second bottom in the late sum-
mer when the maize had attained its height. But it did not tear the
plants from the soil ; pressure against the broad leaves sufficed only
to prostrate the plant ; none was removed.
xA.t the same time, the eft'ect of the flood was shown by trees on
the lower bottom, for those 25 or more feet high, if slender, were
bent down stream. Those with broad spreading crowns were affected
b}- pressure at the surface of the current. No doubt, if the flood
had been repeated at intervals of two or three days, not a few of
those trees would have been overturned ; but, once overturned against
their neighbors, they would tend to protect the others by increasing
the density of the mass and so acting as breakwaters to divide the
flow. The flood had no effect where the vegetation was dense, the
close growth evidently reducing the current to gentle movement.
Croppings of peat bogs, i to 3 feet thick, appear at many places in
the banks. Such bogs suft"er no injury except by undermining; in
which case, a floating log occasionally tears off a piece.
The floods of the Passaic in New Jersey and of the Susquehanna
have been described in several publications. They are more disas-
trous than those of the Connecticut, from a pecuniary point of view ;
but those rivers in flood are no more effective than the Connecticut
in the struggle against vegetation.
The Potomac river, though of rather rapid fall, flows in a broad
shallow channel, an anomaly due in great degree to the relation
between its normal stage and its freshets. The flood of June i and
2, 1888, the greatest on record, was described briefly by McGee.^^ The
height of water at Washington was no greater than during freshets
caused by ice jams, but, above the limit of tidal influence, the volume
of water and height of rise exceeded any previously recorded. The
''W J McGee, Tenth Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Survey, 1890, "Administra-
tive Report," pp. 150-152.
PROG. AMER. PHIL. SOC. , L. 202 JJ, PRINTED NOV. I5, I9II.
133
