53G STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
discharf^e was thirty-eight times as great as that during the abnor-
mall}- wet sinunier of 1889; five hunch-ed and seventv-nine times that
of the average low water discharge ; it closely approximated that of
the Mississippi in ordinary years and was two fifths of the discharge
by that river during the flood of 1858. At Great Falls, the torrent
was OIK' third of a mile wide and 150 feet deep. This was a flood
of unprecedented extent, such as might not be repeated in centuries.
It should afford full opportunity for determining the ability of floods
to remove vegetation. As McGee entered into no detail in his admin-
istrative report, the request was made that he would give such infor-
mation as seemed proper. His letter" is in complete detail and the
following citations are taken from it.
" Tlie most impressive river flood I ever saw occurreLl in the Potomac
several years ago, wlien during June a series of rains occurred in such
order about llie headwaters as to raise the river far above any high stage
previously recorded — indeed I inferred from its effect in l)ending smaller
trees in connection with the undisturbed attitude of the older trees that it
far exceeded any flood of the preceding 150 years. Tlie discharge was not
accurately measured, because the flow was too swift to get a weight into
tile water, -1)ut approximate measurements gave a discharge comparable with
that of the Mississippi at ordinary stages. After tiie water sulisided I went
over the flooded ground with care; and tliis is what I found — the bottom
being irregular, chiefly wooded, partly in field and pasture; in the woods,
frees of less than, say, a foot and a half in cHameter, were bent down stream
and largely robbed of foliage, and a few were broken off, leaving snags;
the higher trees had generally lost branches and most of their foliage (the
water having risen forty to sixty feet, or well toward the tops of the highest
trees) ; here and there, esiiecially near llie chamiel, a tree or clump of trees
had been uprooted and swept away, thougli not more than say one or two
per cent, of the wood in tree or branch was gone. Here and there in the
woods, where tlie current was concentrated by rocks or large trees, a gully,
generally two or three feet deep, as ni;in\- yards wide and as many rods
long, had been cut out; elsewhere, especially where rocks and trees had
slackened the local current, tliere were bars and banks of sand ; and gen-
erally throughout the w'oods there was a layer of silt, of course, left chiefly
by the subsiding waters overspreading the soil — which usually was unmodified
otherwise. From a little field, in-eviously on the l)ottom, a short distance
above Georgetown, the entire crop and the soil to ])low-depth or more was
removed; and in a sloping and somewhat rocky tract of pasture land, up-
stream from the field, the sward was irregularly furrowed by gullies
ordinarily a few feet deep and as many yards wide — the number being such
'*0f December 6, igio.
134
