I9II-] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 39
uted materially to the formation of coal and, at a later date, Bischofif
conceived that the Sargasso sea might yield a coal bed. Mohr/^
in 1866, presented this view with great energ>-, and his opinions
received more or less support from some eminent students.
Mohr contrasts stone- and browncoal. the one being fusible the
other infusible. Land plants with much woody fiber yield charcoal,
which soon decays when exposed to air and moisture. But sea-
weeds, river and lake algse, having no fiber, decay to slime, which
hardens through loss of COo and CH^ the original composition being
that of starch and the allied substances. He combats Bischoff's
assertion that Calamites and other land plants were concerned in
forming coal, for the mass of the coal is amorphous and no treat-
ment gives trace of plant skeleton. Evidently, everything with rec-
ognizable structure is a foreign body. Coal did not originate from
land plants but from water plants, whose growth is protected from
air and decay.
Only one of these water plants, a grass of wide distribution, is
a phaenerogam ; the genera and species of the others are very numer-
ous and their mass is inconceivable. The Sargasso sea alone has
an area seven times as great as that of Germany and none of its
material can escape. Here is ample material ; contributions from
land plants are only accessory. The ash from sea weeds contains
no clay ; that from coal, lignite and peat consists of silicates not
belonging to plants and contains clay. This material is derived
from land detritus. The ammonia in distillates from coal is of
animal origin ; no accumulations in landlocked basins could have
animals enough to supply this ammonia, but Darwin and Meyen
have described the vast numbers of mollusks and other forms
attached to seaweeds.
Sea plants are swept away, decay and sink or are distributed by
currents. They are heaped up to great thickness, there being 338
feet of coal in the Saarbruck basin. Darwin saw immense masses
of seaweed, floating, so constant in position that they are mapped
as reefs and sand banks. If a layer of leaf coal occur, it is evi-
dence only of material brought in from the land. The absence of
^¥. Mohr, " Geschichte der Erde," Bonn, 1866, pp. 82-icx), 130, 137.
39
