I9III STEVEXSOX— FORMATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 537
that perhaps a quarter or perliaps a third of the sward was removed. The
furrowing in this pasture, by the way, represents the most extensive flood
removal of sward that I have ever seen. Now considering the translocation
of material generally by the flood, it is clear that despite the favora1)le con-
ditions due to abundant vegetation and to a higher declivity of the flood
than that of the normal stream, the ratio of organic matter moved to the
inorganic sediment was trifling. . . . What is true of that flood is, I am con-
vinced, true of river floods generally — while the flooded river generally has
its transportative capacity greatly increased, the material transported is chiefly
inorganic, so that the resulting sediments are mainly mud, silt or sand, rather
than organic accumulations."
The writer rode through much of the area two months after the
flood had subsided. The chief evidence of great flood presented by
the vegetation consisted of somewhat inchned trees, deposits of
debris in branches of trees at a distance above the stream and an
occasional furrow in the sod. These furrows were produced wlien
the water in swirling around a projecting rock worked under the
sod and, soaking the materials below, burst the cover, so opening
the way for making a gully. In the forested portions, the litter
seemed to have suffered very little injtiry beyond, as noted by
McGee, receiving a cover of inorganic sediment.
Murphy^"' has described a flood on Willow creek in Morrow
county, Oregon, a stream combining the features of a torrent with
those of a river. The creek, 30 to 40 feet wide and enclosed in
banks 10 to 15 feet high, has a fall of 38 feet jier mile, but, unlike
most of such streams, it flows through a fertile valley, 500 to 1.500
feet wide. The storm causing the flood of 1903 was brief, a cloud-
burst, and the flood had passed in less than an hour. The water
came down as a mass, 20 to 25 feet high, with a slope in front of
about 30 degrees, and it was 500 feet wide. It swept away a great
part of a town which was in its path. Xo details are given respect-
ing the damage done to vegetation, btit some incidental remarks make
the matter sufficiently clear. Referring to methods of determining
the high-water level of floods, he says that trees are the best marks ;
small trees are often bent over and silt or light drift is deposited on
them. When the water pressure is removed, the trees straighten up
" E. C. Murphy. "Destructive Floods in the United States in ifX>3,"
U. S. G. S. Water Sup. and Irr. Paper. 96, 1904. pp. Q-12.
135
