538 STEVENSON— FOR.MATIOX OF COAL BEDS. [November 3.
and the drifted material is raised above the high level; but rings of
silt left on trees, all on approximately the same level, show the true
waterline. In this way he determined the extent of the flood. The
houses, made of lumber, were lifted from their foundation and were
dashed to pieces against rocks or trees.
Wilkes^" made use of the same method. In speaking of floods
on the Willamette river of Oregon, he says that the sudden rises of
the stream are remarkable, the perpendicular height of the flood
being at times as much as 30 feet, the limit being marked very dis-
tinctly on trees along the banks. In New South Wales " near the
source of streams, grass is to be seen attached to the trunks of trees
thirty feet above the present level of the water, which must have
been lodged there by very great- floods." This is a commonplace
condition ; the writer observed it at the head of Sacramento bay in
California almost forty-five years ago. He saw many bunches of
drift stufif entangled in branches of trees at 10 to 15 feet above the
water level, and he was astonished by the fact that so great a flood
had done no injur}- even to the shrubs growing among the trees.
Rk'crs in Great Interior Basins. — Excellent descriptions of floods
within the Mississippi-Missouri area are given in reports of the
Ignited States Weather Bureau, tliose by Morrill and FrankenfielcF'
being the most comprehensive.
Man's skill has brought about great changes in the lowlands of
the Mississippi. The fertilit}' of that region from the mouth of the
Ohio to the Gulf of Mexico early led to settlements at many places.
But the periodic floods of the river rendered agricultural operations
precarious and levees were constructed for protection. Eventually the
construction of such levees was assumed by the Federal government
and they now protect a vast area from overflow. The region, now
exposed to devastation under ordinary circumstances, is very small,
but, during abnormal floods, the levees sometimes give way and
'" C. Wilkes, " Narrative of the United States Exploring Expedition,"
1845. Vol. IV., p. 358; II.. p. 269.
" P. Morrill, " Floods of the Mississippi River." Rep. Chief of Weather
Bureau for 1896-7, Washington, 1897, pp. 371-431. H. C. Frankenfield, "The
Floods of the Spring of 1903 in the Mississippi Watershed," Weather
Bureau l>ull., 1904.
13G
