>9"1 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 543
struction, the forests do not appear to have been seriously disturbed by
floods."
An observation by McGee^** is in place here. The Mississippi,
as it flows past northeastern Iowa, meanders through a densely
wooded floodplain, four or five miles wide, now in one main and
half a dozen subordinate streams and yet again in numerous large
and small channels. But this plain is flooded each year ; according
to writers already cited, the river at times covers the whole plain
from blulif to blufi^ as a rapid stream.
Lyell,^'' in referring to the 1844 crevasse near New Orleans, savs
that the water poured through at the rate of ten miles an hour, inun-
dating the low cultivated lands and sucking in several flat boats,
which were carried over " the watery waste " into a dense swamp
forest. He mentions that the great Carthage crevasse was open
during eight weeks and that nothing was visible above the flood
except the tops of cypress trees growing in the swamp.
Humphreys and Abbot-'' state that the bottoms of the Illinois
river are two to ten miles wide and raised only a few feet above the
usual level of the river. The greatest part of this swampy country
is included in the "American bottom." The Kaskaskia flows with
crooked course through a heavily wooded alluvial bottom, over-
flowed eight or ten feet by freshets. These authors emphasize the
fact, too often ignored, that lowland areas are usually well soaked
by rains preceding the floods and the swampy areas become covered
with water, so that when the overflow^ comes, it finds everything
prepared for resistance.
Lyell-^ had the weird experience of descending the Alabama
river in time of high flood. At night the passengers were startled
by crashing of glass and partial destruction of the steamer's upper
''W J McGee, "Pleistocene History of Northeastern Iowa," Eleventh
Ann. Rep. U. S. Geo!. Survey, 1891, p. 204.
" C. Lyell, " Second Visit to the United States of North America," Lon-
don, 1850, Vol. II., p. 169.
^ A. A. Humphreys and H. L. Abbot, " Report upon the Physics and
Hydraulics of the Mississippi River," Reprint, Washington, 1876, pp. 38, 66,
76, 82.
-'C. Lyell, "Second Visit," etc., Vol. II., pp. 51, 141.
141
