544 STRVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BF.DS. [November 3.
works. 1'lic boat liad "got among' the trees." The river banks are
fringed with canes over which decichions cypresses tower, while
farther l)ack is the evergreen pine forest. During floodtime, the
actual channel is very narrow, as the l)ranches of the high trees
stretch far over the water, so that, when the stream has risen 40 or
50 feet, nuich skill is require<l to keep the way between them. At
that lime, the adjoining swamps and lowlands arc inundated far and
wide, r.ut this ilood does practically no injiu-y to the forest directly
in the path of its strongest cm-rent or to thai farther back where the
current is less raj^d. L\ell found the same condition on the Mis-
sissippi delta, where the ilood waters, though laden with silt, have
not injured even the willow saplings.
The Hoods of great rivers in other lands exhibit the same phe-
nomena.
According to 1 lumboldt,-"-' the Hoods of the ( )rinoco l)egin soon
after the vernal e(|uinox and attain their maximmu in July. The
water remains at ])ractically the same height until August 25, after
which it falls more slowly than it rose. Its bounding region is
nuicli like that of the lower Mississi])pi and the flooded area is as
large as luigland though less than the ex])osed regi(Mi along the Mis-
sissipjii. The delta area is alwaxs wet except in some petty eleva-
tions, which are dry for brief periods. The surface is completely
inundated during several months each year. lUit it is covered with
a dense growth of Mauritius palm in which the inhabitants construct
raised platforms, on which they reside.
Wallace-^ has described the broad level area extending to 20 or
30 miles from the main stream of the Amazon and extending for
long distances along the main tributaries. This is Hooded at every
time of high water. It is " covere<l with a dense forest of lofty trees,
whose stems are every year, during six months, from ten to forty
feet under water." Much of the Hooded area at the mouth of the
Amazon is covered with the mirite palms, Maitritia flcxiiosa and
M. v'mijcra.
'"^ h. lluinh.ildt, " Person.il Xarrativc," Bohn I'.ng. Ed., 185.', Vol. HI.,
p. 8.
-' A. R. Wallace, " A Narrative of Travels on the Amazon and Rio
Negro," London, 1853, pp. 410, 436-
142
