19".] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 547
mass which seems to be ahiiost inconceivably great. On some
streams he finds or learns of huge log barricades, apparently afford-
ing ample confirmation of Ochsenius's barricade theory ; along others
the river bed is set with " snags," impeding navigation ; while along
the main stream the casual observer is apt to regard the floating
trees and other debris as an almost continuous mass.
It is equally certain that a vast amount of finel}- divided vege-
table matter, derived from chafing of logs and trunks during their
voyage as well as from partial decay of the floating plants, is carried
by all rivers. It is true that studies of the Mississippi, in flood and
in ordinary stages, have shown that the quantity in the silts is utterly
insignificant when compared with the inorganic materials, but it
suffices, during decay, to give off a notable discharge of gas in the
outer area of the delta. The suggestion has been made that vege-
table matter, minutely divided, may explain the fertility of the Nile
deposits. According to Reclus, cited by Marsh,-" it has been com-
puted that the Durance river, fed by torrents of great erosive power,
carries down annually enough solid matter to cover 272,000 acres
with a deposit two fifths of an inch thick, containing more available
nitrogen than 110,000 tons of guano and more carbon than could be
assimilated by 121,000 acres of woodland in one year. The black
waters of the Scottish lakes, of several rivers in Florida, of great
rivers like the Congo in Africa, the Negro and others in South
America prove that an enormous amount of vegetable material is
leached from peaty deposits.
When one considers the mass of transported timber, the- content
of organic matter removed by solution, and reads the more or less
crude estimates of organic stuff's in the detritus carried by rivers,
the mind is staggered and he is almost ready to concede that in this
transportation there is the process fully competent to bring about the
accumulation of coal beds. It is important, then, to ascertain, if
possible, what becomes of this material.
The trees and shrubs carried by the rivers were not uprooted by
the torrents ; they come not from abrupt slopes but from lowlands
where meandering streams undermine their banks and the plants
■' G. P. Marsh, "The Earth as Modified by Human Action," p. 245.
145
