548 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
tumble in with the rest. Gibbs,-* who saw the spring flood of the
Yukon river in Alaska, relates that
" During tlie liigh stage of water, which lasts for perhaps two or three
weeks, great sections of the heavily wooded banks are undermined and
swept away. The majestic spruce trees and tamaracks and birches, which
covered them, topple over and are swept down by the current along with
immense quantities of drift wood from the forest beds. The entire accumula-
tion, amoimting to thousands of cords of wood, is discharged into Bering
sea, whose restless waves and shifting winds scatter this fuel and pile it on
barren shores, hundreds of miles distant."
The conditions along the Mississippi-Missouri and their tribu-
taries are the same ; when the weakened banks cave, the forest, with
its fallen trunks and litter, finds its way into the water. The masses
of drifted wood in the channels of the Mississippi and some of the
streams entering that river from the west have been mentioned in
nearly all textbooks on geology during the last seventy-five years ;
but in most instances the descriptions have been incomplete, while in
some cases they were sufficiently inaccurate to be misleading.
In the early days, great numbers of waterlogged trees were held
back by their roots and were moored in the silt with their usually
branchless stems pointing down stream. These were the " snags "
which rendered navigation perilous. Fewer of them are encoun-
tered now because a very great part of the drainage area is under
cultivation, but enough are added annually to necessitate the services
of several snag-removing boats along the line of nearly 2,000 miles.
Most of the floating stems find their way to the Gulf, but some are
stranded on the delta during floods. At one time, however, they
were diverted, in chief part, into the Atchafalaya, the first great arm
of the river at the head of the delta.
Darby-^ has told us that the vast ninnber of trees brought down
by the Mississippi were thrown into this arm, through which they
were carried with tremendous speed. The Atchafalaya raft began
to form in 1778, when practically the whole drainage area of the
="0. Gibbs, "The Break-up of the Yukon," Nat. Geog. Mag., Vol. XVII.,
1906. pp. 268-272.
^ W. Darby, ".A. Geographical Description of the State of Louisiana,"
2d Ed.. New York, 181 7. pp. 131-1,^3.
140
