I9II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 549
river had still its virgin forest, there being only a few, insignificant
settlements west from the Alleghany mountains. By 1816, the head
of the raft was within 2"] miles of the Mississippi. Darby examined
it in that year and reported that it was 20 miles long, 220 yards wide
and perhaps 8 feet deep. As it was not continuous, but showed
many open spaces, he was convinced that a length of 10 miles would
be nearer the truth, thus giving about 4,000,000 cubic yards of loose
material as the total accumulation during almost 40 years, practically
the total supply of floated timber from the area of more than 800,000
square miles. He says that " the tales which have been related
respecting this phenomenon, its having timber of large size and in
many places being compact enough for horses to cross, are entirely
void of truth. The raft, from frequent change of position, renders
the growth of large timber impossible. Some small willows and
other aquatic bushes are frequently seen among the trees but are too
often destroyed by the shifting of the mass to attain any consider-
able size." The channel was opened by the state authorities in 1840
and the raft disappeared.
Details respecting variation of position and duration of material
were not given by those who described the Atchafalaya raft. But
no such lack of information exists respecting the more celebrated
raft of the Red river in Louisiana. That stream, formed by tribu-
taries rising in the higher lands of Texas and Oklahoma, flows for
a long distance through a region of yielding materials, which, in
many places, is densely forested. According to Veatch,^'^ this raft
began to form in the fifteenth century and by the beginning of the
sixteenth, its head was near the present town of Alexandria, some-
what more than 60 miles from the Mississippi river. It consisted
of a series of complex logjams, each filling the channel. These
ponded the river, which found a new outlet above the raft, so that
this, by additions, gradually moved stream, becoming a great irreg-
ular accumulation of logjams and open water about 160 miles long.
^ A. C. Veatch, " Geology and Underground Water Resources of Nortfi-
ern Louisiana and Southern Arkansas," U. S. G. S. Professional Paper, 46,
1906, p. 60.
147
