650 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
At the time of the early settlements, the foot of the raft was at
Natchitoches, 120 or 130 miles from the Mississippi.
Humphreys and Abbot,^^ writing in 1861, reported that the raft
was an enormous accumulation of drift logs, some floating, some
sunken. The rotting of the logs at the lower end and fresh acces-
sions at the upper end led to advance up stream at the rate of from
one mile and a half to two miles each year, while the retreat at the
lower end was about equal to the gain above. At one time, the
lower end was at Natchitoches but in 1854 it was at 53 miles above
Shreveport, a retreat of about 150 miles. At that time, it was nearly
13 miles long. Above Shreveport to the raft, the river bed was
strewn with logs, stumps and other vegetable debris. The river is
very shallow, 3 to 4 feet deep at low water, and it was about 220
yards wide at the head of the raft, 405 miles from the Mississippi.
Rotting would cause the 13 miles, reported by Humphreys and
Abbot, to disappear within seven or eight years.
The notes given by Humphreys and Abbot were from a casual
examination by their assistant, the matter lying outside of the scope
of their work. The raft was a serious obstruction to navigation,
cutting off the region above from communication with the Missis-
sippi. Congress in 1871 ordered a complete survey, which was made
by Lieutenant Woodruff, whose report, rendered in 1872, gave the
first exact information respecting the actual conditions. Captain
Howell,^" in transmitting the report, remarks that the facts have
been misapprehended even by engineers. " The ' great raft ' itself
dwindles to a mere pigmy in comparison with the popular notion of
its extent and composition." Woodruff, in 1871, proved that the
raft extended along the river for about seven miles, but that through-
out that distance the channel is only partially obstructed. The whole
mass of floating raft was but 290 acres and the whole area of " tow-
heads " or raft resting on the bottom was 103 acres. The towheads
are formed during freshets by accumulations of logs and drift around
a " snag." As the water falls, the pile rests on the bottom and a
^'A. A. Humphreys and H. L. Abbot, "Physics and Hydraulics," etc.,
1876, pp. 21-23.
^'C. W. Howell, 42d Congress, 2d Session, Exec. Doc, 76. p. i.
148
