554 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
as containing the statement that Professor Smith had seen a floating
mass about 120 feet long and probably washed out of the Congo,
consisting of reeds resembling Doiia.v and a species of Agrostis,
among which branches of a Justicia were still growing. Powers*^
saw a floating island in the Gulf Stream in July of 1892. Its area
was estimated at about 9,000 square feet and it carried trees, 30
feet high. It was seen again in September, having travelled more
than 1,000 nautical miles. This, first seen in latitude 39° 5', may
have been torn off from the Florida coast. In every case the float-
ing islands are of small extent and their rarity makes them objects
of curious interest.
Drifhvood. — Great rivers carry immense quantities of trees from
the undermined banks. Where the course of the stream is inter-
rupted by extensive lakes, such as Great Slave or Athabasca, much
of the floating timber becomes scattered and is cast on the shore to
Tdc mingled with the mineral material, which eventually buries it.
When the stream is continuous, some of the drift is cast ashore
in eddies, more is stranded during flood time on the delta or in shal-
lows at the mouth ; but by far the greater part is swept out to sea,
there to be battered by the waves or carried by currents to perhaps
•distant shores. NordenskiokP- relates that driftwood in the form
of small branches, pieces of roots and whole trees with adhering
portions of roots and branches, occurs in such quantity at the bottom
of two well-protected coves near Port Dickson, that the seafarer
may provide a sufficient stock of fuel without difticult}'. The great
mass of driftwood carried down by the Yenesei floats out to sea.
Some of it is drifted by currents to Nova Zembla, the north coast of
Asia, Spitzbergen, perhaps to Greenland. Some of it becomes water-
soaked and sinks before reaching those shores. But not all goes to
sea, for some sinks in the river bed, upright as though rooted in the
sands. A bay off Port Dickson was found barred by a palisade of
driftwood.
"S. Powers, "Floating Islands," Pop. Sci. Monthly, Vol. LXXIX., igir,
PP- 30.3-307.
'■^A. E. Nordenskiold, "The Voyage of the Vega around Asia and
Europe," New York, 1882, pp. 152-154.
152
