I9II-] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 555
That the amount of driftwood accumulated on shores has been
estimated in exaggerated style is amply evident from Brooks's^^
observations. In the north and northwest part of Alaska from
Norton bay to the mouth of the Mackenzie river, the shore at one
time was abundantly supplied with driftwood. The Eskimos, who
have been using this wood for generations, are very economical in
the matter of fuel and, until the coming of the white man, the proba-
bilities are that the wood accumulated more rapidly than it was con-
sumed. This driftwood is brought down from the interior by the
larger rivers, whose banks are forested. The cutting of wood along
the banks of the Yukon has already diminished the contribution to
the northern Bering sea. The north Arctic coast, eastward from
Point Barrow, which is thinly populated by natives and rarely visited
by the white man, has some driftwood, but according to Franklin,
the quantity is unimportant along the coast visited by him ; the mate-
rial is brought down by the Mackenzie and is carried eastwardly by
a strong current. McClure found driftwood on the northeast coast
of Banks land, where it is often at a considerable distance above
sea level. Low** found that the prevailing winds and the force of
the waves have determined the accumulation of driftwood on the
shores of Hudson Bay. During great storms, the older, the lighter
portions of the mass are thrown to a considerable height above
mean tide.
The driftwood deposits on the northern side of Spitzbergen, on
Jan May en and Iceland are mentioned in most of the current text-
books of geology. Some of them, such as the Suturbrander of Ice-
land and the deposit on the New Siberia islands are clearly not drift-
wood, at least not the driftwood under consideration, as they contain
fruits and tender portions of plants and belong to the Tertiary. As
to the others, of undoubted modern origin, the common conception
is simply misconception. The descriptions, in many cases, would
lead one to suppose that the mass is closely packed and almost con-
"A. H. Brooks, "The Coal Resources of Alaska," Twenty-second Ann.
Rep. U. S. Geol. Survey, 1902, Part III., p. 570.
"A. P. Low, Ann. Rep. Geo). Surv. Canada, N. S., Vol. III., 1889, p. 33 J.
153
