iQii] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 557
packed deposit, was merely enough to load a Danish merchantman
of one hundred years ago — say a vessel of 400 or 500 tons. The
description shows also that the wood had floated long ; it matters not
whether it came by the slow drift from Siberia or Norway to north-
ern Greenland and thence southward, or followed the north coast
eastward to Davis strait, it is certain that the voyage was very long
and the wood showed the efifects. This long continued buoyancy
of the wood is equally evident in the Gulf of Mexico, where one
finds the Mississippi drift wood stranded on the shores along hun-
dreds of miles.
In all extensive deposits of driftwood, the trees are battered,
stripped of leaves, bark and often of branches; they are scattered
on the strand or piled in irregular loose heaps, where, exposed to
the air, they decay; or if in more favorable conditions, the inter-
stices become filled with sediment, the trees become merely logs in
shale or sandstone, even their genus being unrecognizable except by
microscopic study of the structure.
The quantity of finely divided organic matter transported by
rivers is minute in comparison with that of inorganic. Pourtales^^
examined sediment from samples of Mississippi water collected at
Carrollton, Louisiana. The first series, taken in March during a
flood from the Red and Ohio rivers, yielded no matter of organic
origin aside from some spicules of sponges and rare vegetable fibers.
A second series, collected in June, during a Missouri flood giving the
most abundant sediment of the year, contained in water from the
surface some indistinct vegetable fibers and wood cells, but no re-
mains of vegetables were found in the other samples taken at various
depths. A third series, in August, contained a vegetable scale or a
leaf of moss; while a fourth series, in October, contained no organic
matter. A fifth series, collected in the following January, showed
on nearly all the filters minute black bodies which may have been
pollen or spores.
But the absolute quantity of organic matter carried out is con-
siderable. The " mud lumps " ofi^ the mouth of the Mississippi, are
masses of tough clay, occasionally forming islands of several acres,
■" L. F. Pourtales, in Humphreys and Abbot, Appendix 8, p. 651.
155
