■911.] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 559
during the periodical floods. The chff crests are from loto i6o feet
above the floodmark and sections show white, yellow and red sands
with bluish or variegated clay beds. Ten feet of red clay was seen
at the top of one section, while in another are white clays resting on
bright red clays. The area studied by Brown is about 400 by 1,000
miles. Within this he saw four insignificant exhibitions of vegetable
matter in the deposits, which seem to have been laid down in an
estuary.
It is evident that very little of the drifted material is deposited
anywhere within the river region or immediately beyond ; the drift-
wood deposits on the northern shores, though vast in the aggregate,
clearly represent but a small part of the timber brought down by the
great northward flowing rivers ; the writer has followed the Gulf
Stream for more than 3,000 miles but he has rarely seen floating
logs ; in rhe central part of the so-called Sargasso sea of the north
Atlantic, he saw no floating timber and captains of steamships
familiar with that area have assured him that driftwood is of rare
occurrence ; the Orinoco brings down great numbers of trees which
should be caught by the westward current, but the writer, during
two voyages between Trinidad and Colon, saw not one. \Miat, then,
becomes of the vegetable material carried down by the rivers ?
Deep sea soundings in the Atlantic ocean give no answer to the
question. ^Material brought up by the trawl seems to be practically
free from vegetable matter. It has been suggested that the constant
" creep "' at great depths maintains the supply of oxygen, which
under the pressure would be greater than at the surface, so that
organic matter would be destroyed. \\'hether or not the explana-
tion be in this suggestion, it is certain that where dift'erent conditions
of movement and pressure exist, one finds an accumulation of vege-
table material on the ocean bottom. The observations by Agassiz^^
in the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean as well as in the Pacific
off the coast of ^Mexico are final in respect to this matter. His
statement is that
"A. Agassiz, "Three Cruises of the Blake," Bull. Mus. Conip. ZooL,
Vol. XIV., p. 291 ; " General Sketch of the Expedition of the Albatross,
1901," Vol. XXXIII., p. 12.
157
