I9II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 41
though without mentioning Mohr in connection with it. Referring
to the current opinion that the material for formation of coal may be
wholly or at least in great part derived from land plants, he says
that this is evidently pure hypothesis, for remains of undoubted
land plants occur in coal only under exceptional conditions. As, at
the time when stone coal and anthracite were formed, the land was
sunken, it is doubtful if the then production of land plants could
yield the vast quantit}' required for the coal beds, he is led to look
elsewhere for suitable material — and that, the sea plants appear to
have produced. Remembering that the fauna of the Coal ^Measure
time was marine and that, for these vast numbers of genera and
species, the nourishment could come only from algse, he asks with
Bischoff, " where are the remains of the vast masses of sea plants,
which since the Plant Kingdom first appeared on earth, have grown
and then perished?" He replies that they have been consumed in
forming coal and anthracite beds ; and he is compelled to admit the
conclusion that algse, not land plants, produced the chief material for
coal-making. At the same time, he is careful to state that this is only
hypothesis, without direct proof, since remains of algse are as rare in
coal as are those of land plants.
Mietzsch*^' devoted much space to discussion of this hypothesis.
which he regarded as baseless. His objections are those tabulated by
]\Iuck in the work just cited. In the concluding part of his argu-
ment, he points out that the Challenger expedition crossed the ocean
along several lines and that the results of dredging leave uncertain
whether seaweeds, after death, reach the bottom, become decomposed
at the surface or become covered with animal remains. The Chal-
lenger expedition found no seaweed on the way to coal, though,
several times it crossed the area, where, if ever, such deposits might
be expected. Not only the petrography of coal but also the palseon-
tology opposes the hypothesis. Seaweeds have not been discovered
and the forms known in earlier days as fucoids have proved to be
land plants.
Lesquereux"*' referred to ]\Iohr"s hypothesis only to reject it.
■"^ H. Mietzsch, " Geologic der Kohlenlager," Leipzig, 1875, p. 244.
" L. Lesquereux, Ann. Rep. 2d Geo!. Survey of Penn. for 1885, p. 104.
Same for 1886, p. 465.
41
