'91 1-] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 563
even moderately extensive areas is wholly without basis in fact.
One must regard it as originating in medieval descriptions of the
devastating force of the Xoachic deluge, which became an integral
part of religious and romantic literature, so that the conception was
accepted as a fundamental truth, needing neither investigation nor
proof.
The Phenomena of Peat Deposits.
Peat or turf is familiar to those living in the temperate zone.
It is an accumulation of vegetable matter undergoing special chem-
ical change because protected from atmospheric oxygen by an excess
of moisture. If one examine an old peat bog, he finds the surface
covered by plants of various kinds growing on more or less decayed
material. This, in its uppermost portion, is brown or yellowish
brown, but the tint deepens downward until in the ripe peat it is
almost black. At the top, one finds the vegetable structure distinct,
but downward that becomes more and more obscure until in the
mature peat it cannot be recognized by the unaided eye, and there
seems to be only a vegetable mud containing, at times, fragments of
slightly changed wood.
Peat-making Plants. — Sphagnum is regarded by many authors as
the all-important agent in production of peat ; and this supposed con-
dition has been utilized more than once to fortify arguments against
the suggestion that coal beds originated from growth in situ. The
prevalence of this misconception is strange, for evidence to the con-
trary has been presented in many works during the last centurv.
Darwin^- says that in the Chonos archipelago, S. L. 44° to 46°,
every piece of level ground is covered with Astilia pumata and
Donatia magcUanica, " which by their joint decay compose a thick
bed of elastic peat." In Tierra del Fuego, the former is the chief
agent. Fresh leaves appear constantly around the growing stem,
while the lower ones decay. Tracing a stem downward into the
peat, the old leaves can be seen in all stages of decomposition until
the whole has become blended into a confused mass. Every plant
" C. Darwin, " Journal of Researches,"' New York, 1846, Vol. II.,
pp. 24-26.
161
