564 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. LNovember 3,
in the Falkland islands becomes converted into peat. He saw no
moss peat anywhere in South America. Thomson^^ notes that peat
in the Falkland islands is very different from that of northern Eu-
rope, cellular plants being almost wanting. It is formed for the
most part of roots, matted foliage and stems of Empetrum ruhrum,
a varietv of " crowberry " common on Scottish hills ; Myrtiis num-
mularia, a creeping myrtle ; Caltlia appcndiculata, a dwarf species of
water marigold ; with some sedges and sedge-like plants. The roots,
preserved almost unaltered, may be traced downward in the peat
for several feet, but finally all structure is obliterated and the whole
is reduced to an amorphous structureless mass. Mrs. Brassey's^*
description of accumulated decayed and decaying vegetation at Borja
bay in the Magellan region is in place here, as showing the origin of
peat from forest material.
" To penetrate far inland, however, was not so easy, owing to the dense-
ness of the vegetation. Large trees had fallen and rotting where they lay
under the influence of the humid atmosphere, had become the birthplace of
thousands of other trees, shrubs, mosses and lichens. In fact, in some
places, we might be said to be walking on the tops of the trees and first one
and then another of the party, found his feet slipping through into unknown
depths below."
But long prior to Darwin, Al. Brongniart^^ asserted that the
presence of Sphagnuiii palnstrc is not necessary to the formation of
peat. One finds on the banks of the Meuse, below Maestricht, some
peats containing only leaves of resinous trees. He contents himself
with the observation that all are agreed that, for formation of peat,
the essential condition is stagnant water, covering the surface con-
stantly and never completely dried up. Lesquereux^" defined peat
as a mass of woody plants whose fermentation and, consequently,
decomposition were retarded by the presence and the temperature
''C. Wyville Thomson, "The Atlantic." New York, 1878, Vol. II.. p. 185.
"Mrs. Brassey, "Around the World in the Yacht Sunbcaiii," New York,
1883, p. 128.
"Alex. Brongniart, " Traite elementaire de mineralogie," Paris. 1807,
Vol. II., p. 41.
^'^ L. Lesquereux, " Quelques recherches sur les marais tourbeux," Mem.
Soc. dcs Sci. Nat. Ncuchatcl, Vol. III., 1845, p. 26.
162
