I9II] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 565
of water. \'ogt,^" while giving pre-eminence to Sphagnum, notes
that under favorable circumstances any vegetable substance can be
converted into peat, for some peats are formed of grasses and reeds.
Heer^^ assigns to mosses only a subordinate part and asserts that
peat originates partly from mosses, partly from water-plants, from
swamp plants, especially from grasses and sedges, and partly from
woody plants. A. Winchell in i860 and Grand'Eury in 1882 made
the conditions equally clear, w^hile Friih^'-' showed that Sphagnum is
a late arrival in accunuilation of peat.
Peat in the Tropics. — The belief prevails that peat is not pro-
duced in the tropics. Jameson,''** long ago, asserted that peat is
peculiar to cold climates, but not wholly so, for Anderson had re-
ceived some from Sumatra. It is quite natural to find peaty sub-
stances in warm climates for peat at the bottom of a mountain is
more decomposed than that at the top ; that of southern England
more than that of north Scotland; that of France is more coalv than
that of England, while no peat is found in the French lowlands
except under cover. All of which shows that decomposition in-
creases toward warm climates, until, in the tropics, it is so rapid
that masses of peat cannot form.
Fruh^^ was unwilling to believe that true peat forms in the
tropics. He discusses a great number of reported occurrences in
tropical and sub-tropical areas. For him, the observations are in-
complete and his conclusions are that, so far as known, there is no
important deposit of true autochthonous peat in the lowlands of the
tropics ; that, within the tropics, formation of peat is in elevated
regions, where the climate is that of the temperate zone ; that the
supposed peat layers, bored through in the alluvium of great trop-
ic. Vogt, " Lehrbuch der Geologic," 2d Aufl., Braunschweig, 1854, Vol.
II., p. no.
°^ O. Heer, " Die Schieferkohlen von Utznach und Diirnten," Zurich,
1858, pp. 1-4.
^°J. J. Friih, " Ueber Torf und Dopplerit," Trogen, 1883.
*^R. Jameson, "An Outline of the Mineralogy of the Shetland Islands,
and of the Island of Arran," Edinburgh, 1798, pp. 151-153.
" J. J. Friih und C Schroter, " Die ]Moore der Schweiz," Bern, 1904,
pp. 134-143-
163
