566 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3.
ical streams, are prevailingly allochthonous. In this last his refer-
ence is to the record cited by Lyell,^^ of a boring in the Ganges delta,
which passed through a deposit, having certainly the characteristics
of a peat bed. In view of what has been said on preceding pages
respecting the accumulation of drifted vegetable matter and of the
fact, that the great deposits in the Mississippi delta, formerly sup-
posed to be of drifted material, are of in situ origin, one is justified
in saying that the testimony of that and other borings cannot be
waived aside lightly by the mere assertion of allochthony. The onus
of proof is on the one making the assertion.
It is difficult to understand why the a priori reasoning that trop-
ical heat should prevent peat formation is thought so conclusive as
to make worthless the testimony, which would be accepted as prov-
ing the presence of peat in Michigan or north Germany. The con-
ditions of temperature during summer in much of the United States
are decidedly tropical ; yet peat accumulates. It is true that vege-
table matter exposed to moist air must decay more rapidly where
the temperature is constantly high than in the temperates, where the
hot period is of brief duration ; but that has nothing to do with the
matter under consideration, for one is concerned with decay of vege-
table matter protected from atmospheric action by a plentiful cover
of water. A priori^ one should expect to find peat accumulating in
those tropical regions, where the conditions are such as encourage
peat-making in the temperates — with only the difiference that, owing
to the continuous high temperature, complete decomposition should
be more rapid and the bog should have the vegetable mud near the
surface. But one is not dependent on a priori reasoning.
Harper''^ notes that it is an error to suppose that peat is confined
to cold climates, since high temperature does not prevent its forma-
tion if humidity and topography favor. Peat is abundant on the
very border of the tropics in Florida, where tropical temperature
prevails throughout the year. Sphagnuui does not occur south from
"^ C. Lyell, " Principles of Geology," Eleventh Ed., New York, 1872,
Vol. I., p. 476.
°*R. M. Harper, "Preliminary Report on the Peat Deposits of Florida,"
3d Ann. Rep. State Survey, iQio, pp. 214, 274, 287, 292.
164
