670 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
by water, heat or the activity of the plant, this is ready to resist the
rains and winds, for its adhesion is complete on the steepest slopes.
After spreading for sometime, the Eriospora lifts its rhizomas
into the air and sets off branches, each terminated by a bouquet of
grass-like leaves, and each year, before the rains, abundant rosettes
of leaves and flowering twigs are developed at the end of these rhi-
zomas. At the beginning of the dry season, these leaves wither and
soon afterward they are consumed by fires lightedby men or perhaps
by lightning; only the bases of the leaves remain; blackened, half-
carbonized, this coat thickens around the rhizoma. The growth of
the Eriospora tufts is apparently very slow, but, as they may live
for several centuries, they attain notable dimensions. On the border
of the virgin forest, some were seen more than a meter high and
half a meter thick at the base. The stem divides midway into ver-
tical branches, themselves dividing, the last division having a diam-
eter of 2 to 3 centimeters.
The tufts are not always in contact, there being at times an inter-
val of even 50 meters, but in these intervals on gentle slopes, one
finds a fibrous network, very humic, constituting a veritable bed of
peat, 5 to 30 centimeters thick. This peat is formed not only of
roots and rhizomas, but also of young colonies of Eriospora^ killed
soon after origin by fire or by lack of light. True mosses appear at
high altitudes. On the humid flank of Mount Momry, Chevalier
found a Sphaguum at 850 to 900 meters above sea level. The Erio-
spora peat covers tens of thousands of hectares in French west
Africa. The condition described by Chevalier is not wholly unfa-
miliar in the temperates, where mosses and other plants cover irreg-
ular rocky surfaces and form a coating of peat at times several inches
thick. This is seen frequently in the southern Appalachians. It is
the Rohhumus or Trockentorf of the Germans.
It was reserved for Potonie'^ to present the final evidence. Find-
ing no available literature giving details respecting moorformation
in the tropics, he applied to Koordes, botanist of the Dutch expe-
dition across Sumatra in 1891. Koordes informed him that in old
"11. Potonie, "Die Entstehung der Steinkolile iind der Kaustobiolitlie
iiljciiiaupt," 5th Aufl., Berlin, 1910, pp. 152-160.
168
