'91I.I STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 593
conceives that the Everglades of southern Florida, with an area of
about 7,000 square miles, owe their origin to outward advance of
mangroves on shallows of the coast.
The freshwater swamps of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts are, for
the most part, sharply distinct from the tidal marshes, even where
the latter have encroached. Cook^''" has shown the relation in X"ew
Jersey by a section extending from Dennisville to Delaware bay, a
distance of about one mile. The cedar^"' swamp begins at the edge
of the low upland and gradually deepens to 15 feet. Like most of
the cedar swamps in Xew Jersey, it has been cleared, but clusters
of young trees up to 100 years old remain here and there on the
surface, which is only a few feet above high tide. The cedar grows
densely but slowly. Old stumps show more than 1,000 annual rings,
but those near the bark are as thin as paper and the stumps rarely
exceed 3 feet diameter, though some have been seen which were 7
feet. The swamp soil is black, peaty, 13 feet thick at Dennisville
and, when dr}'. burns. It shows no admixture of foreign material
and contains only 3.35 per cent, of ash, the water in the dried peat
being from 12 to 16 per cent. It is very loose and porous, always
full of water; the roots of the trees run through it in every direc-
tion near the surface, but do not penetrate to the solid ground.
Where the peat cover is thin, the roots do pass through to the under-
lying soil, but, in that case, the wood is inferior and it cannot be
utilized in manufactures.
Trunks of trees are buried at all depths and are so numerous that
one has difficulty in thrusting a sounding rod to the bottom. Some
had been blown over when rotten ; others were merely uprooted.
Some, blown down, lived for a considerable time afterward. The
prostrated trunks lie in all directions and the conditions are precisely
the same as those now seen on the surface of the swamp. Large
stumps have been found, which grew over logs, now enveloped by
'"" G. H. Cook, op. at., pp. 301. 302, 355, 356, 360, 361, 484.
'"^ The cypress or white cedar of X^ew Jersey is Chamacyparis thyoidcs,
which is found in swamps from Xew Hampshire to Florida and westward
to the Mississippi. The bald cypress is Taxodhim distichuin, a form surviv-
ing from the middle Tertiary, which extends from southern Delaware along
tlie coast to Texas and up the Mississippi to southern Illinois.
191
