42 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
Seaweeds have cellular structure alone. They decompose cjuickly
whether exposed to atmospheric oxygen or protected from it. They
are soon transformed into a fluid, black material which penetrates
the sands along the seashore. He thinks it possible that remains of
marine algas may have been thrown casually on swamps and that
their decomposition products, added to those of the decomposing
materials, may have enriched them and may have given cannel.
J. Geikie** sees in the alternation of coal and limestone, evidence
of prevailing subsidence, while the coal seams indicate frequent re-
currence of land surfaces. The cannel's and iron-stones show that
many wide lakes and lagoons existed. He finds lines and ribs of
cannel associated with splint and even ordinary coals, while the can-
nel itself passes into common coal or black shale or even into black-
band ironstone. The varying conditions are due to the mode of accu-
mulation. Cannel was formed under water, for it contains fresh or
brackish water fossils. The expanse of fresh water was surrounded
by wooded flats; slimy vegetable mud, with, in places, ferruginous
matter, was deposited where the streams entered. Along the shores
were marsh plants, while farther back were trees and fern under-
growth. The last gave ordinary coal, the marshy plants were con-
verted into splint, while the slime became cannel, oil-shale or even
iron-stone.
Stevenson,^^ as the result of studies in the Upper Coal Measures
(Monongahela) of Ohio and West Virginia, came to the conclusion
that at the close of the Lower Barren Measures (Conemaugh) the
northern part of the Appalachian area basin was a half-filled trough
separated from the western coal areas by the Cincinnati fold. He
accepted the in situ doctrine without reserve. The conditions ob-
served in the Upper Coal Measures prove a succession of gradual
subsidences interrupted by intervals of repose, during each of which
a lid of coal was formed over all or part of the basin. The sub-
sidence could not have been paroxysmal, for, as the shore line sank,
^''J. Gcikie, "On the Geological Features of the Coal and Iron-stone-
bearing Strata of the West of Scotland," Jonrn. Iron and Steel Inst.. Vol.
III., 1872, pp. 13, 14.
^■■'J. J. Stevenson, " Tlie Upper Coal Measures West of the Alleghany
Mountains," Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist., N. Y., Vol. X., 1873, pp. 226-252.
42
