«9>i] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 595
of fallen trunks, twigs and leaves. Shaler's plates from photographs
taken in this forested swamp show the conditions thoroughly.
Shaler"'-' has described the peculiar modification of structure
characterizing the bald cypress. This is the greatest of the conifers
east from the Rocky mountains and it is the most stately of all the
trees on the eastern half of the continent. On dry ground or where
there is no water during the summer half of the year, it shows no
peculiarities ; but where it lives in swamps, flooded during the grow-
ing season, the roots give ofif excrescences which project above the
water, their height depending on the depth of water. These " knees "
are subcylindrical and are crowned by a cabbage-shaped expansion
of bark, rough without and often hollow within. Whenever these
knees become permanentl}' submerged during the growing season,
the tree dies ; as was proved in the New Madrid area, where, during
the 1811 to 1813 earthquakes, the land sank permanently. In Reel-
foot lake, within Kentvicky and Tennessee, thousands of these long
cypress boles still stand in the shallow waters, though 70 vears have
passed since the slight submergence of their knees. The eitect of
drowning is shown on a plate in the work previously cited. Many
dead stems of cypress rise above the surface of Drummond lake,
which is only a few feet deep. Lesquereux thought that these were
once part of a floating forest.
Okefinokee swamp in southern Georgia is not wholl}- a forested
swamp. It is larger than Dismal Swamp and more difficult to study.
Harper^'" succeeded in penetrating it to a distance, all told of about
18 miles. Here and there are islands, raised a little above the swamp
level, at times not more than 2 feet, often less. On those the slash
pine and the black gum grow, while all around are sphagnous bogs
in which are slash pine, as well as swamp cypress, with sedges, ferns,
sundews, and pitcher plants. Pines are wanting where the muck is
more than 4 feet deep, but the cypress grows densely until the depth
exceeds 6 feet. Where that depth is exceeded, no trees are found
"" N. S. Shaler, " The American Swamp Cypress," Science, O. S., Vol.
II., 1883, pp. 38-40.
""R. M. Harper. "Okefinokee Swamp," Pop. Sci. Monthly, Vol. LXXIV..
1909, pp. 596-613.
193
