598 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3.
Peat deposits fill depressions but, in some cases, are formed on
almost level areas. Depressions more than 25 feet deep may be
filled by alg^e, by floating species of seed-bearing plants, by sedi-
mentation, by plant growth from the sides or by a combination of
these processes. A frequent succession is Chara-marl, on which
rests a peaty soil in which plants take root ; the land marsh moves
out and tamarack advances on the deeper peat of the shore. As
the water becomes shallower, each shore type moves out and is suc-
ceeded by the type behind — the water growing warmer and more
aerated. Formation of peat on a flat space is much under the same
conditions as those on the surface of a filled depression. When the
drainage is poor, liverworts or some mosses take possession; if not
too wet, rushes, sedges and grasses appear. Accumulation makes
the place wetter and only the hardier plants remain. Sedges are
the chief peat-producers under these conditions.
The process of filling a depression is often very complicated.
In southern Michigan, the early stages are shown in many lakes,
which are surrounded by zones of aquatic plants. More or less
detritus, organic and inorganic, finds its way into the lake. Where
the process is more advanced one can trace the whole succession.
The lowest deposit is formed of Cliara and floating algc-e. This
is succeeded in the shallower water by the Potamogcton zone and
that bv the water lilies. Just beyond this one comes to the floating
mat of sedges, extending on the water surface to a considerable
distance from the shore and buoyant enough to support a consider-
able weight. The earlier stages may provide soil for rooting of the
sedges at the shore line, but the mat itself is wholly unsupported for
a considerable distance and is often 18 inches thick. Finely divided
material from the undersurface of the mat increases toward the
shore, where it becomes dense and the mat is no longer floating.
Thus is built the solid peat, structureless, decomposed and nearly
black. The surface rises gradually after grounding of the mat and,
at each level, new plants appear. Shrubs and Sphagiinni advance
to be overcome in turn by tamarack and spruce, which in their turn
are overcome by the marginal flora from behind. Tamarack accom-
panied by ferns grows far out on the bog.
196
