19-1.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 599
The final stage is where the sedge mat closes over the surface
and the underlying peat has become firm. Sedge is usually the chief
factor in the later stages of lake destruction. At times, the mat is
pressed down by the weight of trees growing on it. In one case it
was found 6 feet thick, resting on semi-fluid peat. A section at
one locality showed
Feet. Inches.
1. Sphagnous peat O 6
2. Moss peat and shrubs 2 o
3. Moss peat 3
4. Coarse brown peat, stumps and roots ... 2 6
5. Remains of shrubs o 2
6. Dark peat rich in sedge remains 2
It was impossible to determine the condition farther down as the
peat was very wet, but sedges were recognized. Similar conditions
were observed in other sections. These all show that the trees w^ere
rooted in the mat of pure vegetable material, even when it reposed
on the water surface and that, while the trees were growing, the
accumtdation of peat was continuotis.
After the mat has been grounded, Hypiuini hastens outward
from the shore, associated occasionally with some Sphagmini. When
the surface rises 2 inches above the water level, ferns appear and
they are followed by Spliagnum, which persists even when the sur-
face is flooded. It is much hardier than Hypiium and, for that
reason, it has been regarded as chief factor in the production of
peat. Bttt it is often absent, having been found in less than 30 per
cent, of the localities examined by Davis. The first tree is the tama-
rack, which grows densely on the level of shrubs, but isolated trees
are scattered over the open bog.
Chara-marl occurs frequently in southern ^Michigan but it was
not seen anywhere in the northern portion of the state, where the
general succession dififers somewhat from that already given. The
Chara-stage is wanting ; pond weeds, pond lilies and rushes are of
irregular occurrence and the sedge-zone is all important. Owing,
probably, to absence of fragments belonging to the higher plants,
the work of freshwater alg^e is more apparent than in the southern
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC, L. 202 NN, PRINTED NOV. l6, I9II.
197
