600 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
peninsula. Algal lake, now covering only a few acres, is surrounded
by a great wooded swamp, extending northeastward to a large lake
and coming down almost to the water at the north end of Algal lake.
The swamp loosestrife {Dccodon vcrticillatus) forms the marginal
zone. The bottom of the lake is covered with soft flocculent ooze,
composed of unicellular alg?e with diatoms as well as pollen from
conifers. Davis conceived that peat of this type would be like
cannel and he thinks that freshwater algae may have been more
abundant in Carboniferous times, when all types of plant life were
lower than now. A similar material was found in a mature bog,
where the section is
Feet.
1. Coarse peat, with stumps, roots and fallen stems 5
2. Brown peat, good texture, quite plastic 5
3. Soft, light-colored peat, like that at Alga! lake 4
These are the only localities in the United States whence this type
of peat has been reported. Ehrenberg, Friih and Potonie have de-
scribed the felt or Meteorpapier, as Ehrenberg termed it, which
remains on swamps after floodwaters have been drained ofif. Potonie
calls it Sapropel carpet, and he has given a photograph showing the
material covering land plants of a swamp. But the phenomenon is
of by no means rare occurrence in the eastern part of the United
vStates. Davis has communicated by letter that he saw it in 1910
near St. Augustine in Florida, where the water of a swamp had
been lowered ; the felt was conspicuous on the tussocks, etc. In the
Everglades of the same state, he found the felt about the grass and
sedge stems in the level swamps. Here and there it contained a
considerable quantity of calcareous matter, due perhaps to activities
of Cyaphanacese present in the algal association. The same type of
felt-like development is seen during springtime in marshes of the
northern states, where the water drains ofif slowly. Spirogyra and
other filamentous alga? sometimes cover the temporary ponds and
are left as a felt-like cover when the water has been withdrawn.
This felt breaks into small pieces as it dries and is added to the peat.
The writer has observed it in very small patches on the New Jersey
marshes; he has seen patches more than lo feet square at many
198
