I91I.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 603
observation that evaporation from that moss is proportionately less
than from other plants ; and he showed that growth of the moss is
checked by freezing and that the plant cannot live in deep shade or
under forest trees such as oaks, pines or beeches. He seems to be
the first to note that marls covering peat bogs contain impressions
of plants.
Lesquereux's conception of the mode of filling depressions from
the sides differs somewhat in detail from that given for the United
States. Shallow ponds are invaded by vegetation, which forms a
mould in which water plants take root. The basin is filled by their
decay, the surface becomes humus in which plants of other types
grow, giving meadows or forests. The filling is rapid in the early
stages. Pools of quiet water are invaded by confervce, mingled with
infusoria, microscopic plants and small shells, which by decay cover
the bottom. At times, 6 to lo inches of this deposit may accumu-
late in a year. When the water is deep, the same result is reached
by another process — the prolonged growth of certain floating mosses,
especially of some species of Sphagnmn. Those, pushing out from
the sides, form a thin cover, in which grasses, sedges and other
water-loving plants grow. Eventually, this becomes compact enough
to bear the weight of trees, even of dense forest; until, becoming too
heavy, it either breaks or is pressed slowly to the bottom and covered
with water. This, he asserts, is no hypothesis but the statement of
actual fact.
The lac d'Etailleres, near Fleurir in Switzerland, is open water
in an extensive series of peat bogs. Prior to the year 1500, it was
the site of a forest ; but in that year, according to legend, the forest
disappeared and it was replaced by two lakes. The lakes still exist
and in quiet water one can see the prostrate trees on the bottom.
But a new carpet has already spread over much of the surface, which
in turn will become forested and will sink. Thus one mav find
superimposed beds of decomposing vegetable matter, each consisting
of remains of small plants below but of forest remains above. An
analogous condition exists in Lake Drummond of the Dismal Swamp,
where the bottom consists of a forest cover, once at the top but now
201
