<504 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
under water, while vegetation is encroaching from the sides. It is
quite possible that this explanation of the Lake Drummond condi-
tion is correct, but that lake is shallow, only 6 feet, and the trees are
erect ; in the deeper lac d'Etailleres. the trees were prostrated by
breaking of the mat. To illustrate the succession in such a case, he
gives the section of a bog in Denmark :
Feet. Inches.
1. Fibrous yellow peat with undccomposed mosses 3 8
2. Oak layer, wood still sound, trunks 2 to 3 ft. diameter.
3. Peat, yellowish 6
4. Birches, prostrate, Bctuhi alba 3 o
5. Black peat 4 o
6. Pines, 6 to 10 inches diameter, most of them pointing
toward center of the basin, retaining their branches,
embedded in a mass of leaves, cones, etc 8 o
7. Black compact peat 4 o
and the bottom not reached. This peat was mined for fuel, the
works being extensive. The general description by Lesquereux
shows that the conditions are not wholly the same in his localities as
in many areas within the United States. They suffice to show that
Spliag)iii}ii is a late arrival, though in Switzerland, as in some other
portions of Europe it is more important than in this country, where
sphagnum-peat rarely exceeds 3 feet.
As illustrating this, one may cite Vogt's^^^ description of a
Hochmoor at the Fonts of the Canton Xeuenburg. This lies be-
tween two villages built on limestone benches on opposite sides of a
valley. In the middle ages, each village was visible from the other,
but that is no longer the case. The bog has raised itself, hill-like,
growing most rapidly along the middle line. This mass is ^^/'/za^rwwm
and its mode of growth shows well the ability of that moss to retain
water, so as to thrive at considerably above the water level.
Heer"" says that life on land began with minute forms and few
types. So, in the water, alg?e begin the work. Even pure fresh-
"° C. Vogt, " Lehrbuch der Geologie," 2te Aufl., Braunschweig, 1854, Vol.
XL, p. no.
'" O. Hcer, " Die Schieferkohlen von Utznach und Diirnten," Zurich,
1858, pp. 1-4.
202
