I9II-] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 607
Rasenmoor is not always apparent as either one may be very thin
and the other very thick. In his later, great work on the Swiss
moors, Friih has described with much detail all the Swiss deposits
and he has offered generalizations which will be considered in
another connection.
It had been suggested by some observers that the tree trunks
found in the bogs had been drifted into the depressions, but Friih
asserts without qualification that they are in place. The condition
is wholly normal. A. Geikie,^^** after noting the differences in phys-
ical structure as well as in vegetation shown by successive portions
of a bog, says that remains of trees are common. Some are em-
bedded in soil underneath the bog; others are in the heart of the
peat, proving that the trees lived on the mossy surface and finally
were enclosed in the growing peat. This is illustrated by a sketch
of a peat-moss in Sutherland. J. Geikie"'' has given much informa-
tion respecting the Scottish bogs but it will suffice to cite only his
later work. The bogs have yielded many species of trees, all of
them indigenous. The trees are in situ, each rooted in the kind of
soil preferred by living examples. There are few acres of lowland
bog in which trees have not been found. They occur even in the
Hebrides, where trees now are practically unknown. Occasionally,
more than one forest bed is present. At Strathcluony, three tiers
of Scotch fir were seen, separated by layers of peat. Several tiers
were exposed in a railway cutting across the Big Moss ; one of stand-
ing fir trees with branching roots at 6 feet below the surface, a
second at 12 feet and a third at 4 feet lower; so that, counting the
surface growth, four diiferent forests have existed there since the
bog began.
Aher,^-*' in the Bog reports, says that trees in the Irish bogs
" have generally 6 or 7 feet of compact peat under their roots, which
are found standing as they grew, evidently proving the formation
of the peat to have been previous to the growth of the trees." On
^** A. Geikie, " Text-book of Geolog\-," 3d Ed., London, 1893, pp. 478-480.
"' J. Geikie, " The Great Ice Age,'' 3d Ed., London, 1895, pp. 286-293, 303.
'^ Cited by S. S. Haldeman, in 2d Ed. of R. C. Taylor's "' Statistics of
Coal," Philadelphia, 1855, p. 169.
205
