608 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
the same page Haldeman notes that it is a remarkable fact, although
very common, that successive layers of trees or stumps, in erect
position and furnished with their roots, are found at distinctly dif-
ferent levels, at small vertical distance from each other.
Grand' Eury,^-^ noting that the plants, active in peat-making, are
not the same in all cases, maintains that a distinction must be made
between peat, properly so-called, and peat of the iiiarais. The
former is supraaquatic, covers high plateaus and is formed chiefly
by Sphaynimi, with some other water-loving mosses. Unaccom-
panied by these, other plants in similar conditions give only soil.
Such peat is rarely transformed into a compact charhon and it is
obscurely stratified. The peat of marais is formed on low grounds,
along the borders of rivers, lakes or the sea, often in extensive areas.
In such places, Arundo grows rapidly along with Scirpus palustris
and reeds as well as with Hypnnm, Nymphoca and other semi-aquatic
plants. This peat may be divided by sandy deposits and at the
bottom one finds a muddy peat, almost without structure. It occurs
in Holland and on the shores of the Baltic, the marshes being of
great extent in both regions. Fossil peat occurs at Utznach in
Switzerland.
Still different are the peats of wooded swamps and swampy
forests. In depressed areas, where the forests have been killed by
swamp plants, the peat, formed of herbaceous plants and prostrate
stems, accumulates rapidly. He refers to the wood at Kiogge near
Copenhagen, which the Danish naturalists had regarded as due to
transport ; but Lesquereux had shown that it is in place, the trees
having been overturned by the wind — a condition observed in the
present forests near by. The mass is composed almost wholly of
birch and the upper part consists of empty barks entangled in a mud
or half liquid paste, coming from decomposition of the wood.
Grand' Eury examined in the Ural a peat of swamp-forest origin,
a mass of herbaceous plants and debris of trees. Stumps rooted in
the mass were seen at two horizons in the upper part and others
were scattered below. Many stems and branches lie prostrate and,
"' C. Grand' Eury, " Memoire stir la formation de la liouille," Ann. des
Mines, 8nie Ser., Tome I., 1882, pp. 197-202.
206
