J9II-] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 609
at tlie bottom, a considerable portion is formed of barks, wood,
leaves and other debris, transported and deposited in the water.
Roots can be seen penetrating the gray clay on which the deposit
rests. On the borders, the peat has not been changed in position
and it is felted and herbaceous. In one part it seems to be composed
exclusively of transported plants, there being barks of flattened
birches ; some laminated portions are formed of humefied epidermis
material.
No reasons are given for assigning a great portion of the mass
to transported material, the matter being taken apparently as beyond
dispute ; but one may surmise that the presence of stumps rooted in
the peat, the prostrate trunks and the fragmentary condition of the
enclosing material ma}- have been for him convincing. Grand' Eury
did not believe that trees would grow in peat and the fragmentary
condition of plant remains was proof that they had been washed in.
The conditions, described by him, are precisely those which are
familiar in bogs, for which no conception of transport is admissible.
The Danish swamps were studied by Steenstrup^-- long ago ; his
grouping resembles that employed by the German students. The
most important is the \\^aldmoor or Skovmose type occupying de-
pressions in Quaternary deposits, often more than 30 feet deep.
Where the area was small, the sides were abrupt and the trees
growing on them eventually fell into the bog. where they have been
preserved. In depressions of great extent, one finds an exterior
wooded zone surrounding an interior or central bog zone. The
latter resembles the Lyngmose, the heather or Hochmoor stage.
The central area of the Skovmose is very regular. It rests on
clay derived from the borders ; above which one finds ordinarily one
and a half to even four feet of amorphous peat, becoming pulpy in
water and containing indeterminable plant remains. The peat is
very pure in normal bogs, but layers of calcareous or silicious matter
are not unknown. A layer of hypnum-peat rests on the amorphous
deposit, 3 to 4 feet thick, containing Finns sylvestris, which grew on
the spot, at times forming a forest on the swamp. The trees were
^" Steenstrup, as summarized by Morlot, Trans, in Ann. Rep. Smithsonian
Inst., Washington, 1861, pp. 304 et seq.
207
