I9II-] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 613
E. Shore peat, like transported peat, 25 centimeters, roots of Carex,
Equisctum and Phrag)nifes.
F. Plankton-g>ttja, 40 cm. with remains of infloated Phraginites,
Equisctum. etc., some pollen of Picea in upper portion.
G. Cla}', 50 cm. rich in saltwater diatoms.
As interpreted by Yon Post, one has here at the bottom, a deposit
of plankton tnaterial or Sapropel. It was invaded by the shore peat,
on which a forest of birch and alder grew for a short time amid
unfavorable conditions, as the swamp was overflowed at times ; this
condition became more marked and a sedge swamp followed, in
which Sphagnum gradually gained control. Still later, for a short
period, during which accumulation of peat continued unchecked, the
moor was covered with a dense growth of firs ; but as the moisture
increased, the non-water-loving elements disappeared and a Calluna-
Eriophoniin moor occupied the area. Sections in Skarby lake com-
plex show the same general features as those observed elsewhere in
this region. Though there are dififerences in detail, the story is prac-
tically the same throughout. The open water deposits, gyttjas rich
in plankton material, form the lowest stratum resting on clay or
sand ; on this is the shore peat, which gradually passed across the
basin. Then came the time of decreasing moisture ; alders advanced
on the peat surface, now subject to only occasional overflows ; they
were succeeded by birches, which were rooted in the alder peat ; and
finally came the great forests of Scotch' fir growing in the birch and
alder peat, to be succeeded by Sphagiiitiii-'Hoch.moov peat in the
moist Sub-Atlantic stage. Peat-making was continuous in the for-
ests and each type of forest peat has its own group of minor plants.
Buried Peat Deposits. — Some authors have contended that peat
deposits on the land are not likely to be preserved because, exposed
to air, they must be afifected by atmospheric conditions and eventu-
ally must waste away. Under such conditions, it is certain that
only such accumulations of vegetable material as are deposited in
water-filled basins would be preserved. But the supposed condi-
tions are purely hypothetical and are not in accord with those exist-
ing in nature. Indeed, one looking at a peat deposit, many feet
thick, would have difficulty in conceiving how there could be uni-
formity of conditions for a period long enough to permit wastage
211
