614 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3.
of so great a mass, almost impermeable to water after having be-
come thoroughly air-dried. But a priori reasoning is unnecessary ;
for, as Lesquereux recognized long ago, burial of peat bogs is part
of the normal sequence of events.
Dawson^-" has described an early Quaternary bog which he saw
in Nova Scotia. It underlies 20 feet of bowlder clay and pressure
has made the peat almost as hard as coal, though it is tougher and
more earthy than good coal. When rubbed or scratched with a
knife, it becomes glossy; it burns with considerable flame and ap-
proaches the brown coals or poorer varieties of bituminous coal.
It contains many roots and branches of trees apparently related to
spruce.
Areas of peat buried under glacial drift are numerous in the
New England states as well as in New Jersey and some of them will
be mentioned in a succeeding section. Newberry,^^" many years ago,
collected all the observations then available for states west from the
Alleghany mountains. In Montgomery county of Ohio, E. Orton
found a bed of peat, 15 to 20 feet thick, the surface covered with
Sphagnuvi, grasses and sedges. It contains coniferous wood with
bones of elephant, mastodon and teeth of giant beaver ; and it under-
lies 90 feet of gravel and sand. At many places in Highland county
of the same state, wells have reached a stratum of vegetable matter
and, at Cleveland, a " carbonaceous stratum " has been found at 20
feet below the surface. A similar condition exists at Lawrenceburg,
Indiana, as well as at many places along the Ohio ; and J. Collett
reported that, throughout southwestern Indiana, there is an ancient
soil, 2 to 20 feet thick, with peat, muck, rooted stumps, branches and
leaves, at 60 to 120 feet below the surface. This deposit is known
locally as " Noah's cattle yards." The same condition is reported
from a portion of Illinois. The great forest bed of Iowa, discov-
ered by McGee at a later time, is in part a buried bog. Leverett,
Taylor, and Goldthwait have described autochthonous peat bogs
buried under glacial drift at many localities within the Missis-
sippi area.
'"° J. W. Dawson, " Acadian Geology," 2d Ed., London, 1868, p. 63.
'" J. S. Newberry, " Surface Geology of Ohio," Geol. Survey of Ohio,
1874, Vol. IT., pp. 30-32.
212
