GIG STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
as well as by the more energetic bore, so that it projects as a prom-
ontory. Strahan^^" measured the section exposed during excava-
tions for docks on Barry island. The succession is
I. Blown sand, Scrobicularia clay, sand, shingle, with strong line of
erosion below. 2. Blue silt with many sedges. 3. Upper peat bed, i to 2
feet thick. 4. Blue silty clay with many sedges. 5. Second peat bed, thin.
6. Blue silty clay with sedges. 7. Third peat bed. with many logs and
stools, roots in place underneath. 8. Blue silty clays with reeds, willow
leaves and freshwater shells. 9. Fourth peat bed with large trees and roots
in place and numerous land shells. 10. An old soil with roots and land
shells. II. Rock in place, at 35 feet below the Ordnance datum.
Here as in the Carse area of Scotland, the peat underlies a
deposit containing marine shells.
Lesquereux^^^ cites a French author, who found at many places
in the Department of Xord alternations of peat and sand, the latter
containing marine shells. He notes that when the growth of peat
is checked by dryness, a crust forms, which is a parting between the
old and the new peat. In the valley of the Somme.he found, under-
lying 8 feet of clay and concretionary limestone, 23 feet, 4 inches of
peat in 15 layers, with the partings distinct and the layers differing
in character. Alternations of clay, peat and calcareous concretions
are not rare.
Geinitz,^^- more than twenty-five years ago, studied the dune-
covered bogs near Rostock. At a later period he had opportunity
for more detailed examination and his observations are important
from several points of view. At the bathing station near Graal. the
section shows at the bottom, sand of the Rostock plain, on which
rests a one-foot layer of peat, containing stumps of trees which grew^
on it. The dune formerly covering this deposit has been removed
for some distance, exposing the peat, but it still remains at a little
way landward. Beyond the dune, one finds a forest of great beeches
and oaks, with the peat bed covering the surface between them.
""A. Strahan, Mem. Geol. Survey, " (jeology of the South Wales Coal
Field," Part III., 1902, pp. 87-93.
"' L. Lesquereux, Ann. Rep. 2d Geol. Survey of Penn. for 1885, pp. 116-
118.
'^- E. Geinitz, " Nach der Sturmflut," Aus der Natur, Vol. IX.. 1908,
pp. 76-83.
214
