19"-] STEVEXSOX— FORAIATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 617
When he looks at the dune surface, he sees, as it were, shrubs rising
out of the sand, some short thick stems of beech and oak ; but they
are not shrubs, they are the still living parts of trees, the same in
age and growth as those standing in the open forest. They have
been buried by the advancing dune. A mighty storm tiood, tearing
away the sea wall and removing part of the dune, will expose vertical
trees standing in the sands as in the Coal Measures sandstones. At
present, one sees advancing masses of sand burying the trees, which
grow on low-lying moors. At another locality, storms, during re-
cent years, have exposed an older peat deposit, underlying the sands
of the Rostock plain. The outcrop extends hundreds of meters
along the shore and shows that the peat is a moss peat, which bore
a forest of Scotch fir. There, as also near Graal, the waves hav^
torn off fragments of the peat and have worn them down into
elliptical form similar to that of the beach pebbles. Barrois^^^ has
referred to similar origin of peat pebbles on the shore of the British
channel, where some neolithic deposits of peat are exposed to the
waves. The fragments of peat are rolled, rounded and eventually
transformed into true ellipsoidal pebbles.
Lorie,^"* in his fifth contribution to the surface geolog}' of Hol-
land has gathered together all the available information respecting
the buried recent peat deposits of that region.
In all probability the Zuyder Zee was filled with peat prior to
the catastrophe of the middle ages, but the only vestige is on the
island of Schalkland, where one finds 5 to 7 meters of peat covered
with a meter or more of marine clay. The same condition exists
on the river Y near Amsterdam and in the province of Zeeland as
well as in the west part of North Brabant in Belgium. The peat
bed near Oudenbosch, in the latter province, is 0.75 meter thick and
underlies 0.65 meter of sediment. It is readily traceable from that
village across Zeeland into western Flanders of Belgium, and thence
to the coast at Ostend in Belgium and Dunkerque in France, a dis-
'^ C. Barrois, " Observations sur les galets de cannel-coal du terrain
houiller de Bruay." Aim. Soc. Gcol. du Xord., Vol. XXXVII., 1908, p. 7.
^^ J. Lorie. " Les dunes interieures, les tourbieres basses et les oscilla-
tions du sol." Archives Mus. Teylcr, 2me Ser., Vol. III., 1890, pp. 424-427,
444. PI. 2.
215
