618 STEVENSON— FORM ATIOX OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
tance of more than 60 miles. Lorie eite.s lielpaire pere, who says
that it is one to 3 or even 4.5 meters thick and that it rests mostly
on blue clay, though in some localities on fine sand. It is double
near Ostend, where the lower bed is black, compact, with roots of
reeds, while the upper bed contains no reeds but has woody fibers,
apparently roots of heath plants. The peat and its overlying clay
are sometimes continuous under the dunes and shore, as is also the
case on the island of Walcheren in Zeeland. Trees, rooted in the
subsoil, occur frequently in the peat. Belpaire fils says that the
thickness of the peat and that of the overl\ing clay vary from i to
3 meters and that the clay level is never above high tide. On the
left bank of the Escaut (Scheldt) as it flows from France across
Belgium the peat is almost a meter and a half thick, but the clay,
2 to 3 meters, decreases as it recedes from the river. Lorie says
that Rutot found a divided peat near Blankenberghe in Belgium.
Reference to Rutot's^^'"' publication shows that the section is
Meters.
1. Shore sand 2.30
2. Gray sandy clay 0.60
3. Gray sand, with bed of Cardium- midway i.io
4. Pure peat 2.00
5. Gray sand, slightly argillaceous 0.40
6. Sandy clay 0.50
7. Gray, argillaceous sand 2.50
The peat underlies a marine sand and overlies a sand which is but
slightly argillaceous.
In 1852, Harting, as cited by Lorie, discovered hard dry peat at
10 to 12 meters below the surface in Amsterdam. Ghyben followed
this eastward toward the Wecht river. For much of the distance,
it is covered with marine sand, but at that river it is covered with
the main mass of peat, constituting the boundary between the sandy
diluvium and the alluvial deposits. In later years it became possible
to confirm and to extend the early observations, for many borings
have been made along railroad lines within the polder areas of Hol-
land. Lorie has tabulated the records of 124 such borings, showing
'^^A. Rutot, " Le puits artesien de Blankenberghe," Bull. Soc. Beige de
Geol., Vol. TI., 1888, Mem., p. 261. This author has given equally illustrative
records in later memoirs published in tjiis Bulletin, Vol. VIII.. 1894; Vol.
XL, 1897.
216
