44 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
united with those at the west, anywhere north from Kentucky and
he leaves to others to decide if tlicre was at any time a connection
farther south.
Still later/'' after very detailed studies in southwest Pennsylvania,
he discussed the question Are coal heds continuous? He describes
the Pittsburgh, Waynesburgh, Waynesburgh A and Washington coal
beds as practically continuous in the northern portion of the Appa-
lachian basin within Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia — that is
to say. that they are almost invarial)ly present wherever their horizon
is reached. P»ut that is not true of the intermediate beds, wdiich fre-
quently are wanting in considerable areas ; yet they are constant in
many great spaces of from 100 to i.ooo scjuare miles: he cannot
resist the conviction that these beds are not in isolated patches but
that for the most part these apparently separate areas are merely
parts of a connected whole. The barren spaces mark localities which
did not present conditions favorable to accumulation of coal. Res-
pecting coal beds older than those of the Upper Coal Measures, he
is convinced by the evidence of borings, that all. with possible excep-
tion of two, merely fringed the border of the basin.
Andrews,'" in rendering the final report upon his work in south-
eastern Ohio, presented the conclusions respecting formation of coal
to which he had been led by his many years study of the Ohio
measures.
The Lower Carboniferous detrital rocks were deposited in shallow
water; the sandstones show ripple marks, striae and branches of
marine plants (the indefinite Sf^iropliyto)i ) . Some conglomerate
appears in the early part of the Coal Measures, but it is confined to
the shore side of the basin and disappears eastwardly [toward the
center of the basin]. Rocks exhibit ra])id variations laterally; sand-
stones pass into shales ; limestones into shales and sandstones. Some
marine limestones, formed in shallow' water, indicate, as do the coal
beds, pauses in the almost continuous subsidence ; but the great lime-
stones of the Upper Measures [Monongahela] are to be considered
merely as calcareous muds, for they vary as do the other mud rocks.
"2(1 Geol. Surv. Penn. Rep. KKK. ITarrisburg, 1878, pp. 283-295, 301-303.
"E. B. Andrews. Geol. Survey of Ohio, Vol. I., Part I., Columbus, 1873,
PP- 345. .347-351. 354, 357. 358.
44
