620 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3.
The portion of Holland considered in Lorie's tabulated records
is not less than 1,500 square miles ; a more extensive area in Belgium
shows the existence of covered peat deposits and this condition
reaches far over into France, for, at Cotentin in Normandy, the
peat, 20 meters thick, is covered with 3 meters of marine sand. One
has in this region an area, almost as great as that of the Everglades
in Florida, in which the existence of buried peat bogs has been
proved, some of them having been traced continuously in a great
part of the region. How great the total area may be, has not been
ascertained, but it is very much greater than that which has been
studied in detail.
The change in structure and composition of peat, as the depth
increases, has been referred to more than once in the preceding
pages. Evidently the older the peat, other things being equal, the
more thoroughly the material is disintegrated, li compacted by
pressure and the removal of water, it assumes the appearance of
brown coal and does not regain plasticity, as appears from the de-
scriptions by Dawson and Lesquereux, to which many others might
have been added. It is certain that some constituent, once soluble
in water, has become insoluble, as soluble silica, once dried, becomes
insoluble. When the deposit, exclusive of enclosed wood, has been
reduced to mature peat, one must resort to chemical reagents and to
the microscope in order to ascertain the component materials. Those
bring to view a structure, a physical composition, which is wholly
similar to that which Grand" Eury gives for coal studied after the
same method. It is a mass of disintegrated fragments, held together
by a fundamental material, much of which was originally flocculent.
The older quaternary peats show much variation ; that described by
Dawson has little which suggests peat to the unaided eye; but there
are others which so much resemble the newer peats that, were it not
for the presence of extinct mammals and the great thickness of
cover, one might hesitate before deciding that they are not of recent
origin. There are still others, which in the several layers exhibit
great variations, some being of comparatively unchanged peat, while
the material in others has lost all of the original macroscopic
features.
218
