19". J STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 623
boughs and stems were found, mostly conifers, birches, willows and
alders, which in some cases resemble brown coal, in others, pitch
coal. The peat-like character of the whole mass, as described by
V. Giimbel, recalls the buried bogs of Ohio and Indiana. Treated
with caustic potash, the looser portions become a soft, dense felted
mass, in which the microscope detects as prevailing constituents,
leaves of grasses with mosses. Sphagnum is the prevailing form.
Fragments of wood are comparatively rare, though needles and
twigs of conifers are not wanting. The denser portions need appli-
cation of Schultze's test, a mixture of potassium chlorate and strong
nitric acid, which must be allowed to act for a considerable time in
order to separate the plant remains. These are the same as in the
looser portions. But in addition are splinters of a deep brown
structureless material, behaving as dopplerite. It fills cell-spaces in
many plant-fragments; this textureless material is the Carbohumin.
The numerous cones embedded in the mass are not deformed.
In passing from the Quaternary to the Tertiary, one finds in-
creased difficulty in recognizing peat bogs ; the conditions, observed
in the older portions of recent bogs and in those of the Quaternary,
are intensified by compression and by removal of the water, which
kept in soluble condition the ulmic and humic constituents, while
advancing chemical change has converted the whole mass into the
mature condition. In fine, the amorphous plastic peat has become
amorphous brown coal and only trunks of resistant wood remain to
tell the story. Yet in some cases the resemblance is so great that
little room remains for doubt. A typical instance is the great
Senftenberg Miocene deposit, described by Potonie, to which refer-
ence will be made again on a succeeding page. To one familiar with
the cypress swamps of the United States, there can be no question
respecting the origin of that deposit. Aside from loss in plasticity
of the peat, and its conversion into brown coal, the description given
by Potonie would apply equally well to the white cedar swamps of
New Jersey or to some of the Taxodiuin swamps of the Mississippi,
where the peat is equally pure, the mud and silt having been strained
out as the water passed through cane brakes.
Heer, in his " Primeval World of Switzerland," says that at
221
