624 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
Diirntcn, the Schieferkohle rests on a gray-white marl containing
Anodonta, ValTata and Pisidinm. That marly clay rests on the Oli-
gocene Molasse, which holds a bed of lignite. The woody limbs are
still distinct but the rest of the mass has been changed beyond recog-
nition. Yet one finds traces of marsh plants in the overlying marls,
while underlying the lignite is an undoubted lake-marl containing
Unio, Planorhis and Lynmcva.
Conclusions. — In this presentation of the features characterizing
peat deposits, some facts appear in notably bold relief.
1. Peat deposits vary in form from lenses to sheets; the former
are of petty to considerable extent, fill depressions such as pond or
small lake basins ; the latter, often of vast extent, originate on ap-
proximately level areas, where drainage is imperfect. The bottom
and top are apt to be irregular ; the latter because of islands or sandy
deposits but especially because of streams and shallow ponds; but
the form of the bottom depends on that of the surface on which it
rests. The thickness may show great variation ; a few inches of
peat at one locality may be continuous with a deposit, 10 or even
60 feet thick elsewhere. Great deposits are not continuous verti-
cally ; partings divide the bed into benches ; those partings may be
very thin, clay or sandy clay with much woody matter, merely desic-
cated peat wasted by exposure during a dry period, or they may be
sediments, varying irom films of clay to beds of sand, gravel or clay,
loose or consolidated. Peat deposits, especially those of great hori-
zontal extent, often bifurcate and, at times, the "splits" reunite.
The underlying material may be clay or sand — usually clay or marl
for the lens-shaped deposits, but very often sand or sandy clay for
sheet deposits extending over great areas. Sand with slight admix-
ture of clay becomes practically impermeable by absorption of
humic acid.
2. Peat deposits are recognized by macroscopic features as far
back as the middle Tertiary. Some of Post-glacial age and several
thousands of miles in extent are buried under 3 to 30 feet of sedi-
ment ; some Quaternary deposits underlie 30 to 120 feet of trans-
ported inorganic matter and the overlying deposits vary from fine
222
