191 1.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 625
clay with plant impressions to fine or coarse sandstone, conglomerate
or even breccia.
3. Many vast moors, such as those of the Netherlands and North
Germany as well as great and small moors in the United States and
elsewhere, are at only a few feet above tide. A very slight depres-
sion suffices to bring the surface below that level and to introduce
marine conditions. In lowdand areas, thousands of square miles in
extent, one finds a marine deposit, with characteristic fossils, imme-
diately overlying peat, which is sometimes continuous with a still
living moor above high tide. In such areas, one finds occasionally
a marine deposit, clay or sand, immediately underlying the peat.
The overlying or the underlying material or both of them may be
distinctly calcareous.
4. The passage from peat to the overlying deposit may be abrupt
or it may be gradual through alternations of peat and sediment.
5. The channel ways of streams crossing the moors are traceable
in borings after the moors have been covered with sediment ; they
contain little or no peat.
6. The peat deposit is not always homogeneous. Sapropel, or-
ganic mud, is the foundation in a great proportion of lake deposits
in Europe and in some within the United States ; it is probably
absent at bottom of great sheet deposits ; but it may occur as lenses
in any part of the section, marking the sites of shallow ponds.
Sapropel is an unimportant constituent of true peat, which is pro-
duced by water-loving land plants, the work of other types being a
negligible factor. The several benches of a deposit may difl:'er nota-
bly in structure and composition. Peats are laminated even when
new, but under compression, the lamination is characteristic and the
material has a coal-like appearance.
7. Peat varies greatly in purity. At times, it has less ash than
is found in plants whence it is derived, owing to the action of
organic acids on silica and other mineral constituents ; in most cases
it shows notable variations, both vertically and horizontally, that
variation depending chiefly on extent of exposure to flooding by
muddy waters. Peat often contains a considerable quantity of iron
and calcium in combination with carbonic, sulphuric and phosphoric
223
