626 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3.
acids. Alumina and sodium chloride seem to always be present,
though the latter is in small proportion.
8. When mature, peat consists of minute fragments of plants,
embedded in an amorphous substance, more or less flocculent, the
whole cemented b\- an originally soluble substance, which fills clefts
in the peat and at times clefts in the underlying deposit and. in the
older peat, penetrates even the cell tissue of plant fragments.
9. In a very great number of peat deposits, one finds erect stems
of trees, rooted in the underlying clay or sand. Within extensive
areas, the peat mass is crowded with successive generations of trees,
which had grown on the peat, their roots not penetrating to the soil
below. In the case of the less durable woods, the interior has dis-
appeared and the compressed bark remains ; but the prostrated stems
of the more durable or resinous woods have resisted decay and they
have retained their form ; yet in Quaternary peat, the flattening is
more or less marked in all. Peat is not good soil for all kinds of
plants even when dry, but, even when wet, it is the soil on which
several types of majestic trees thrive best ; when somewhat less wet,
it is the habitat of some other great trees, which flourish, while peat
accumulates around their stems.
10. Peat accumulates within the tropics wherever conditions of
topography and humidity are favorable.
11. The deposits of true peat are autochthonous.
Buried Forest.s.
Long ago, erect trees with roots and at times with branches
attached, were observed in the Coal Measures. Some geologists
were convinced that the existence of these trees was proof that coal
beds were formed in situ. The force of this argument seems to be
recognized by some of those who favor the doctrine of origin by
transport, for, in later years, every reported discovery of trees or
forest buried /;; situ has been met with incredulity or worse. The
writer does not share in the opinion that the presence of trees buried
/// loco natali is of serious import as an argument, directly, either
for or against any hypothesis respecting the mode of coal bed for-
mation ; but, in this, he apparentl}' differs from so many geologists,
224
