'91'.] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 627
that it may be well to supplement the references to buried swamps
by some notes upon buried forests.
Russell's^^" description of conditions on the Yahtse river of
Alaska relates that the stream, issuing as a swift current from
beneath the glacier, has invaded a forest at the east and has sur-
rounded the trees with sand and gravel to a depth of many feet.
Some of the dead trunks, still retaining their branches, project above
the mass, but the greater part of them have been broken oiT and
buried in the deposit. Other streams, east from the Yahtse, have
invaded forests, as is indicated by dead trees standing along their
borders. Where the deposit is deepest, the trees have already dis-
appeared and the forest has been replaced with sand tlats. The
decaying trunks are broken off by the wind and are buried in pros-
trate position. This deposit, consolidated, would resemble closely a
Coal Measures conglomerate.
The submerged forest on the Columbia river of Oregon was
observed first by Lewis and Clark and it was examined almost 30
years afterwards by Wilkes ; but Newberry"" was the first to study
it in detail. ITe found the river bordered at intervals on each side
by the erect but partially decayed stumps of trees, which project in
considerable numbers above the surface of the water. These stumps
belong to the Douglas spruce, which still covers the mountain slopes.
The dam at the Cascades is a conglomerate, penetrated by threads
of silica, often filling cavities with agate and chalcedony. It con-
tains many trunks of trees, some of them merely carbonized, others
silicified, while still others show both conditions. These trunks have
a microscopic structure closely resembling that of the Douglas
spruce. The writer may add that similar conditions exist in the
buried forest near Salem on the Willamette river in the same state.
Along the whole Atlantic coast from Xova Scotia to Florida, one
finds sunken forests now buried under peat or sediments. Dawson
described one seen on the coast of Nova Scotia at 25 to 30 feet
below high tide, where the stumps were rooted in material, having
"' L C. Russell, " Second Expedition to Mount St. Elias," Thirteenth
Ann. Rep. U. S. Geo). Survey, 1893. Pt. I., p. 14, PI. XH.
""J. S. Xewberry, Pacific Railroad Explorations, Vol. VI., 1856, "Geo-
logical Report," p. 56.
225
