628 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
all the characteristics of a forest soil, and were scattered irregularly
as in an open wood. E. Hitchcock asserted that buried forests are
numerous along the coast of Massachusetts ; cedar, oak, maple and
beech trees are found in the harbor of Nantucket, some erect, others
prostrate and all of them surrounded by an imperfect peat. This
forest is buried under 4 feet of sand. Cook^" has described many
buried forests in New Jersey, the most interesting being those now
concealed under the tidal mar.shes. At one locality, a ditch was
digged to drain some large tidal ponds ; it exposed nothing but mud
and grass roots ; the outrush of water at ebb tide widened this narrow
drain to 70 feet and scoured the bottom, which proved to be thickly
set with pine, white cedar and gum stumps, standing upright and
giving every indication that they were where they had grown.
Tuomey^*- has described an area of tidal marsh, which is covered
with live-oak trees, some standing, but most of them prostrate.
These are certainly not where they grew and it is equally evident
that they have not been transported. Originally this mud flat, now-
littered with shells of oysters and mussels, was covered with sand
hills, of which some remain. During storms, waves broke over the
peninsula, washed away the sand hills and left the trees, some of
which remain standing because supported by their broad roots. At
another locality, a great white cedar swamp shows living trees, but,
toward the river, the trees are dead and the continuation of the mass
under the river shows stumps in place. Encroachment of salt water
killed the dense undergrowth of the swamp — decomposition of the
exposed peat advanced and the trees broke off at the " air line." He
refers to many places where the saltwater invasion and subsequent
change in the swamp material caused destruction of the white cedar
or cypress forest ; sediment covered the stumps and another growth
followed.
Agassiz,^'^ observed a submerged forest at the mouth of the
Igurapi Grande, which clearly belongs to the recent epoch.
'"G. H. Cook, "Geology of New Jersey," 1868, pp. 350, 352, 354. 355, 360.
"'' M. Tuomey, "Report on the Geology of South Carolina," Cohimbia,
1848, pp. 194-200.
"'L. Agassiz, in "A Journey to Brazil." Boston, 1868, pp. 434. 435.
226
