634 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
Green/^^ visiting the locality some years afterward, remarked
that the conditions recall those in interglacial buried forests of
Great Britain ; for the " brashy " soil, containing the stools of large
trees, with here and there prostrate trunks, underlies a limestone
carrying estuarine fossils. Other " dirt beds " appear occasionally,
showing that the condition was repeated at some localities.
Passing to the Palaeozoic, one finds many references to forests
and trees buried in place, for excavations and explorations are ex-
tensive and the localities, unlike most of those in the Mesozoic, are
in regions where scientific observers abound.
Al. Brongniart^^* saw at the mine du Treuil, near Saint-Etienne,
a sandy bed, 10 to 13 feet thick, containing "a true fossil forest of
monocotyledonous vegetables, resembling bamboo, or a huge Eqiti-
setum, as it were, petrified in place." These are erect. There were
two types of stems; one cylindrical, jointed, striated parallel to their
edges and the cavity filled with rock like that which surrounds them.
The rarer forms are hollow cylindrical stems, diverging at the lower
end " after the manner of a root but without presenting any ramifi-
cation." Gruner'""^ notes the existence of another forest at the same
mine, but much lower in th.e section. The trees are Syriiigodcndron
and the roots rest on the coal. Brongniart refers to other localities,
where vertical stems had been seen, and he cites Charpentier, who
explained one rather notable case as due to landslides. Support for
this conception was found in the debacle of Lake Bagne, during
which great trees were carried down with the mass and deposited in
the original vertical condition position on the plain of Martigny.
But Brongniart maintained that such occurrences must be rare,
whereas vertical stems are found at many localities. At Treuil, as
well as near Saarbruck, one finds not merely a single large trunk
but many — a forest of slender stems, which have preserved parallel-
ism among themselves. It is perhaps more difficult to conceive that
sandy rock could envelop them after removal without destroying
''^A. H. Green, "Geology," Fart L, London, 1882, pp. 252, 253.
^"Alex. Brongniart, "On Fossil Vegetables Traversing the Beds of the
Coal Measures," Ann. des Mines, 1821. Trans, by H. de la Beche in "A
Collection of Geological Memoirs," 1836, pp. 210, 216.
'" L. Gruner, " Bassin houiller de la Loire," 1882, p. 226.
232
