1911] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 685
them, than to conceive that the deposit was made between them
where they grew and were firmly rooted.
The discovery, near Manchester, England, of erect stumps, led
several members of the London Geological Society to visit the local-
ity. Hawkshaw^^'' in 1839 and 1840 described five erect stumps
and he was firmly convinced that they were in the place of growth.
Bowman^^' in discussing the same occurrence, asserted that the loss
of roots in the ^Manchester specimens was due to a process of fer-
mentation. He combatted the notion that floated trees would remain
erect, maintaining that, when they ceased to float, they would turn
over. Several years afterward, Beckett and Sparrow^^^ discov-
ered some erect stumps near Wolverhampton, England. Beckett
removed the coal attached to one of the trees. The stump was per-
fectly " bitumenized "' but broken oft' at about 2 inches above the
top of the coal, the inner portion being hollowed out to about the
level of the coal. The stem was not flattened ; it was approximately
4 feet in circumference and the roots spread out in a broad mass.
The trunk and roots were covered with one half inch of bark, con-
verted into brighter, more compact coal than that of the interior
which was a mixture of coal and shale. The coal bed is about 5
inches thick. A few years later, Jukes^^^ visited this locality with
Beckett and, in writing about the stumps, he conceded that " they
certainly looked as if they had grown there, and perhaps they may
have done so, but even so, it by no means settles the question" [of
origin of coal beds].
Beckett expressed no opinion respecting the original relations of
the forest, but his paper is followed directly by Ick's^''° description,
which is more in detail. The surface of the coal had been exposed
by stripping in a rudely triangular space of about 2,700 square yards.
Upward of 70 stumps were seen on this terrace, some of them more
^^'' J. Hawkshaw, Proc. London Gcol. Soc, Vol. III., pp. 140, 269.
'"'J. E. Bowman, Ibid., pp. 270, 271, 274.
'"" H. Beckett, Quart. Journ. Geol. See. Vol. I., 1845, pp. 41, 42.
'='J. B. Jukes, "The South Staffordshire Coal-field," 2d Ed., 1859, p. 201,
footnote.
^°"W. Ick, "A Description of Numerous Fossil Dicotyledonous Trees at
Parkfield Colliery near Bilston," Ibid., pp. 43-45.
233
