638 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3,
Stone, interlaced with Stigniaria roots, as if the sand had been pre-
vented from drifting away by a tree or stump." The Millstone Grit,
in three divisions and somewhat less than 6,000 feet thick, shows
erect Sigillaricc in the lower portion, but most of the stems occurring
in the sandstones are clearly driftwood.
One must keep in remembrance that Dawson's observations were
made on the outcropping face of the beds along the coast; one may
only conjecture what might be seen if some of the old soils were
stripped as was the coal at Parkfield colliery.
Robb^''* described the rooted stump of Sigillaria, seen by him in
the roof of a coal mine. The roots cross the slope, which is 11
feet wide ; the conditions are shown well in the plate accompanying
his report. He observed many Sigillaria stumps with their attached
roots reaching into the coal seams. He notes one case, where a coal
parting contains the roots of an erect tree, " which had apparently
forced the layers asunder, 6 or 8 inches, for several feet from the
extremities of the roots, beyond which the layers of coal unite
again." In another, " where a large upright stem appears rooted
in a coal seam, the latter seems to have been actually bent down
by the superincumbent weight and, at a little distance, to have re-
sumed its normal attitude."
Gosselet studied^*''"' the occurrence of erect stems at various levels
in a vertical section and discussed their bearing upon the formation
of coal beds. At Lens, there are three coal horizons within a ver-
tical distance of 42 meters — Alfred, Leonard and Louise, with thick-
ness respectively of 1.4, 1.6 and 0.6 meter. In the one meter thick
shale under the Alfred, overlying an irregular passce, he saw two
trunks, one resting on the passce, with the underlying coal slightly
depressed, while, above, it terminates abruptly in a faux-mur, 5
centimeters thick, in direct contact with the coal. No roots could
be traced. Five trunks were seen in the Leonard ; one evidently
had been floated in and a second was too indefinite for determina-
'** C. Robb, Geol. Surv. Canada, Rep. I'rogress, 11^74-5, pp. ig6, 20.3, 204,
23s, 237.
'"J. Gosselet, "Note sur les troiics d'arlires verticaux dans le terrain
houiller dc Lens," Ann. Soc. Gcol. du Xord., Vol. XXI IL, 1895, PP- I74. 1/5.
177-179, 181.
