'9II-] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 639
tion. Of the other three, two were implanted in a thin mur-like
deposit covering the coal ; the roots of one, a SigiUaria, spread out
in the clay, but the roots of the other could not be traced. The
roots of the third, in the coal, could not be recognized as Stigmaria,
but they extended horizontally as clay masses covered with coal.
The roots had been filled with sediment. Eight stems were seen in
the Louise. Three rose directly from the underlying shale and
crossed the mur, which is 60 centimeters thick ; one was cut off
abruptly at the coal and the others were broken off just before
reaching it. The remaining five are in the roof. One is indefinite,
but the others expand at the base and their rootlets are put forth
into the shale. These erect trees, throughout, were in situ; all were
vertical to the bedding. If they had been transported, they would
have been inclined in direction of the current. Transported trunks
were seen at various horizons but, in the cases described, the trunks
were fixed in place by their roots, wherever the roots were seen.
This Lens locality is in the great W'estphalia-France-Belgium field,
a paralic area.
Gosselet refers to conditions in the Banc des Roseaux at Com-
mentry, where trunks are seen arranged in all directions, vertical,
inclined, prostrate, and he compares them with those resulting from
ravages of a hurricane in the forest of ]\Iormal. There, many of
the trees were prostrated ; some, held by their roots, were inclined ;
while a small number remained erect — the conditions bearing re-
markable resemblance to those observed at Commentry. His con-
clusion is that, where one sees the mur rich in rootlets of Stigmaria,
he may regard it as a soil in which trees spread their roots. If the
tree does not rise above the mur, it is because it has been destroyed
by carbonization to furnish its elements, in part at least, to the coal
bed. When the trunk is cut off sharply at coal or mur, it may be
that the deposits were made so slowly that the trunk rotted off" at
the water-surface. He quotes Fayol as showing that at times one
may prove the presence of erect trunks in the coal itself, but usually
they are fused with the mass.
In this connection, it is well to recall the fact that Potonie^'^'^
'"" H. Potonie, " Die Entstehung der Steinkohle," etc., 1910, pp. 134-136.
237
