6i0 STEVENSON— FOR^IATION OF COAL BEDS. [November 3.
found frequent occurrence of Stigniaria in situ at Commentry. One
notable discovery was that of a stump, whose roots spread out in
an area of 6 meters diameter and retained their minute appendages.
According to Renault, the branches extended farther but they could
not be followed. Fig. 46, copied from Renault's description, justi-
fies Potonie's remark that, if this be a transported tree, one must
believe that it and the fine mud enclosing it had been transported
together and deposited in the original position.
Schmitz^'^' examined ^,2, erect stumps exposed in the roof of the
Grande Veine of the Liege basin. The coaly crust, sometimes one
centimeter thick, and the scars suggest that the plants are Sigillaria.
The stumps are in a space of 2 by 95 meters, giving for each plant
5.6 scjuare meters, a condition favorable to the belief that they are
in loco natali. But he found that the trunks are all cut ofif at the
coal bed ; most of them show the enlargement belonging near the
roots, so that one cannot suppose that the trees extended downward
through the coal to the mur. On the other hand, the transition from
coal to sterile rock above is barely one centimeter of coaly clay, so
that they could not have been rooted in the toit. The laminae of
this faux-toit contain many impressions of twigs of lycopods and
Eqiiisctitcs. Four of these pass under the bases of four erect
trunks. This led Schmitz to think it impossible that the trunks
were in loco natali ; for if those four were not, there is no reason to
suppose that the others were. To explain the condition, one must
invoke transport. But, in a later paper to be considered in another
connection, he gives the results of a more detailed study, which led
him to recognize that the abrupt cutting ofif at the base was due to
slips, which explained the presence of plant impressions under the
ends of the free trunks.
Grand' Eury^°* summed up the results of his long study in a
memoir presented at the Paris meeting of the Geological Congress,
^"^ G. Sclimitz, " Un banc a troncs-debout aux charlionnages du Grand-
Bac," Bidl. Acad. Roy. de Belgique, 3me Ser., Vol. XXXI., 1896, pp. 261-264.
^*' C. Grand' Eury, " Sur les tiges debout, les souches enracinees, des
forets et sous-sols des vegetations fossiles et sur le mode et le mecanisme
de formation de couches de houille du bassin de la Loire," C. R. Cong. Geol.
Intern., 1900, Vol. L, pp. 523-530.
238
