i9>'-7 STEVEXSOX— FORAIATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 643
to be evidence that it was transported, because one cannot believe
that it would resist decay long enough to permit accumulation about
it ; yet the condition is familiar, for even the slender canes of the
^Mississippi delta, killed by salt water invasion, remain standing after
they have been surrounded by several feet of silt. The filling of
stumps by sand or clay is regarded as evidence that the change
occurred after complete entombment in the mass of transported
material ; yet Potonie has shown that stumps on the shores have been
found with the decayed interior replaced with sand even into the
roots.
Some authors have laid no little emphasis on the Alartigny
debacle as showing that landslides may explain those buried forests,
whose ill situ appearance cannot be denied. But aside from the fact
that landslides are wholly exceptional and for the most part of lim-
ited extent, one may not utilize them as an explanation, unless it be
supposed that, during the Carboniferous, landslides could occur amid
conditions which would make them impossible now. According to
some authors, the great coal areas were level regions ; according to
others, they were water basins, surrounded by a vast expanse of
level area, forested or swampy. Under such circumstances a land-
slide like that of Alartigny or even like that on the lower Adige
could affect only the far away border area. But, in anv event, the
evidence of a landslide would be unmistakable ; there would be no
room for conjecture. The rock of the slide would be dift'erent from
that at the same horizon a little distance away ; and there would be
ample evidence of disturbance in the underlying rocks, produced by
downrush upon the water-soaked materials : certainly evidence of
the debacle would not be wanting. But no such evidence has been
reported from any locality ; on the contrary, where detailed descrip-
tions have been given, one finds that the bedding is undisturbed and
the conformability is complete. Equally, the buried trees are not
relics of floating islands such as those of the Amazon and Congo, for
they are not associated with filled valleys, but stand in and on rock
of the type prevailing at the horizon for long distances.
241
