48 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
dental rather than essential constituents, more likely to be found in
cannel and shales, deposited in ponds near lycopod forests, than
in the swampy or peaty deposits, whence the coal beds proceed.
While giving credit to Huxley and his predecessors for calling atten-
tion to the importance of spores in coal, he is compelled to maintain
that they have generalized on insufficient basis, that sporangitic beds
are exceptional among coals and that cortical and woody matters
are most abundant. The purest layers of coal are composed of
flattened trunks; other coals are made up of finely comminuted par-
ticles, mostly epidermal tissues — not only from fruits and spore
cases but also from leaves and stems.
Mietzsch^''"^ attempted to answer the question, how did the vege-
table material accumulate in great beds? Was it brought down by
rivers from forest covered areas or did the plants grow where the
coal is now found? The mode of occurrence can be explained
measurably by either supposition ; at times one pr(Kess may act alone,
at time it may be j^ermissible to regard both as contributing.
He describes the heaping up of driftwood along streams as well
as on coasts, whither it has been carried by currents ; and he thinks
that in this way may have originated some tertiar\- deposits of
lignite, composed almost wholly of stems stripped of their bark.
But many deposits of lignite and brown coal contain stems with
bark, twigs, leaves and fruit preserved. The Suterbrander lignite
of Iceland was formerly sujjposed to be driftwood, because of the
present conditions in that land ; but Heer discovered well-preserved
buds, leaves and twigs of the plants, represented by the stems, which
still retain their bark. The same criterion must be applied to the
black coals. Many deposits of these and the greater number of
brown coals have numerous tokens, rendering improbable, in part
impossible, the supposition that tliey were made of transported plant
masses. It is difficult to understand tlie regularity and vast extent
of coal beds on the theory of transport, for driftwood accumulations
are irregular and of small superficial extent.
The composition of coal tells against the theory of transport, for
in most beds the ash is very small — surprisingly small, for in the
process of coalification no ])art of the mineral content of the nlants
"^H. Mictzscb, "Geologic (kr KoliIciilaRcr." Leii)zis, 1875, iip. ^44-2^7.
48
