I9II.] STEVENSON— FOR^IATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 49
disappears, aside from soluble alkaline compounds. Some have
found proof of transport in the composition of ash from stone coal,
since it is quite similar to clay shale. But Mietzsch points out that
living Lycopodiacccc contain from 22 to 26 per cent, of clayey earth
in the ash and asks why one should suppose that the older types were
dififerent. But if the coal contain an abnormal proportion of ash,
there is reason to recognize influx of fine mud.
The fineness of the materials, clay and sand, in contact with the
coal, proves a long period of quiet ; and the same may be said of
the plant deposits themselves. Such a period can hardly be ac-
cepted for rivers or for currents along coasts. The conditions of
the underclay ; the resemblance of the clay in many cases, as Stefifens
showed, to vegetable mould; the interlacing of Stigmaria roots like
wicker work; and the occurrence of erect trunks are all opposed
to the doctrine of transport. In most cases the conditions can be
explained only by the doctrine that coal beds owe their origin to
plants which grew where their remains are now found. He accepts
the peat bog theory as advanced by v. Beroldingen and presents
many facts as additional evidence in its support. The advance of
bogs into lakes is proved by the discovery of pile constructions in
Swiss peat bogs ; along the seashore, algae form dense floating felts
on which bog plants grow and the mass sinks to the bottom. Zee-
land was once cut by ba}s much longer than now and part of the
former sea-area is filled with peat. He strengthens his argument by
many references to phenomena observed in the great swamps of
Europe and North America.
In order to explain the origin of coal-bearing strata, holding a
number of coal beds, one must distinguish between those formed
along a coast and those formed along rivers or in the interior of an
island or continent. Those of the first type are explained by the
subsidence of coasts bordering on the North Sea. The preliminary
work for drainage of the Zuyder Zee, as well as similar work else-
where, has proved the existence of peat bogs in extended areas of
shallow sea ; anchor flukes have brought up peat from depths of 200
meters on the English coast. Such bogs become covered by river
sediments and in case of long-continued slow sinking, the shallow
sea area is filled, so that a number of bogs may be formed suc-
PROC. .-MVIER. PHIL. SOC, L, IQSD, PRINTED APRIL 24, IQII.
49
