50 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
cessively. Among other illustrations, he refers to the discovery at
Rotterdam of two bogs, 5 and 6 meters thick, separated by 4 meters
of clay; to the presence of erect trees which, despite the long period
which has passed since they sank below the water surface, are still
standing on the sea bottom, partly surrounded by sediments ; such
trees on the coast of the islands of Sylt and Romo are of types which
disappeared from that region many hundreds of years ago.
Changes in grade of rivers, caused by damming or by crustal
movements, would lead to covering of bogs with sand or mud and
to the accumulation of rock masses. He finds confirmation of this
view in Livingstone's statements respecting the floods of African
rivers and in the observations of others elsewhere.
Lesley'^' in prefaces to reports by geologists of the Pennsylvania
survey, made frequent references to hypotheses respecting formation
of coal beds. Ordinarily, he preferred to present the matter, as it
were judicially, giving the difiiculties in the way of accepting the
hypotheses and leaving the decision to the reader. lUit in two of
the prefaces he offers some important suggestions.
W. G. Piatt described a little basin, barely a mile and a half
across, in which three sections of Coal bed D were obtained. In
all of them, the bottom bench is 2 feet 7 inches thick and composed
of brilliant coal ; but the upper part is a dull cannel or cannel shale,
measuring i foot 3 inches, 8 feet 3 inches and i foot 2 inches, while
between the last two the dip is about 8 degrees compared with about
one degree elsewhere. A noteworthy feature is that while the ash
in the cannel is from 21 to 25 per cent, and that in the pure coal
below is only 1.6 per cent., yet the ratio of volatile matter to fixed
carbon is practically the same throughout.
Lesley felt convinced that the petty basins, in which cannel was
deposited, were waterways or pools and that more of them existed
at once in certain horizons than in dthcrs. They were not due to
erosion for the underlying coal bed is not cut out, it is merely de-
pressed. There is no evidence of currents, for the mud is fine, the
lamination perfect and the roof soft. The pools were almost stag-
nant. How could a depression come about to give, as here, a dip
" J. P. Lesley, Second Geol. Survey of Pennsylvania, Indiana County,
1878, pp. xiv-xviii ; Lawrence County, pp. xix-xx.
50
