19".] STEVEXSOX— FOR.MATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 51
of 5 to lo degrees to an almost dead level bituminous coal bed?
There is no room for suggestion of crustal movement as the area is
too small ; equally the cavern theory is excluded for no limestone
underlies the horizon except at vast depth. He can see no explana-
tion for most of the localities except in the subsidence of a floating
bog, such as Lesquereux has described. On this the fine muds ac-
cumulated and the pool was filled.
He was led in this connection to consider the sequence of coal
beds. If the Carboniferous plain consisted of a low area with
shallow ponds, the coal forming vegetation would conform to the
dimpled surface and there would be but one coal bed, intersected by
river channels. This plain, if continuous, would be not less than
i.ooo miles long by 300 miles wide [this refers to the Appalachian
basin]. It is very difficult to account for the submergence of this
continental plain to a depth of 50 feet below sealevel in order to give
opportunity for formation of a second bed. Yet this " slow de-
pression theory " may not be rejected easily, for without it, one
cannot conceive how^ 20,000 to 40,000 feet of palaeozoic sediments
could have been deposited ; the more so, since many of the strata
give every evidence of deposition in very shallow water. As a
partial alternati-ve. he suggests that the relative sea level may have
been changed by the filling of basins. The efi^ect of deposits by
great rivers and that of glaciation are discussed but no conclusion
is reached.
In the preface to the Lawrence report, he attempts to explain the
origin of underclays. A peat bog and even a lake invaded by
sphagnous growth must have some water circulation due to percola-
tion from the surrounding land and to evaporation from its own sur-
face — but the movement would be very feeble and it could transfer
only the finest mud. though in course of time the result would be
important. Dry grounds are largely fine gravel with rounded quartz
and feldspar grains ; the feldspar is soluble, it follows the indraught
and settles beneath the evaporating surface with its floating peat.
If the peat area be surrounded by clayey land, the percolation would
be at a minimum ; the water supply would be from the surface
and less muddy, so that the underclay would be less in quantity. It
would appear, then, that when the margin was a tight clay, deposits
51
