52 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. lApdizi.
of calcareous type show that Hmestone must have been exposed
within the drainage area.
The thickest underclays should belong to beds next or near
above the great sandrocks and it is a fact that our great clay beds
are near the base of the Lower Productive Coal Measures [Alle-
gheny] and that the few important clay deposits high in the series
have coarse grained sandrocks not far below them. A logical con-
sequence of such conditions is that sandrocks geologically close to
such great underclays should be purer, more open sands and gravels
than others which had not been robbed of so large quantity of
interstitial clay. If the surrounding land contained iron in its
gravel, there should be ball ore in the fireclay — as is seen in the New
England ponds surrounded by drift.
Davis^'^ described a cannel deposit in Yorkshire, somewhat resem-
bling that discussed by Lesley. The bed is thickest in the center
and thins away in each direction, meantime becoming less pure and
passing into bituminous shale at the circumference. The condition
is due to in-floating of plant remains, which sank to the bottom of
the pond. The marked interlamination of shales and their marked
increase toward the border resulted from more rapid subsidence of
the muds. In some places the pond was filled up ; there the under-
clay has abundance of Stigmaria and the plants growing in such
places were converted into ordinary coal. Afterwards the whole
mass was submerged and covered with black mud. The cannel is
fine, close-grained, homogeneous, with conchoidal fracture, without
planes of deposition and everywhere yields beautiful specimens of
fishes.
Reinsch''^-' undertook the microscopic study of coal. He pre-
pared a great number of sections, subjected them to close examina-
tion and published his results in an elaborate volume with 95 plates.
These exhibited the structure of the coal as well as numerous forms
which seemed to be organized. Reinsch maintained that the coal
^*J. W. Davis, "On the Fish Remains found in the Cannel Coal of the
Middle Coal Measures of the West Riding of Yorkshire," Q. J. G. S., Vol.
XXXVI., 1880, p. 56.
'-^ P. F. Reinsch, " Ncuc Untersuchungen uher die Mikrostructur dcr
Steinkohle des Carbon, der Dyas nnd Trias," Leipzig. 1881.
52
