i9:i.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 53
substance originated, mainly, from marine plants of such peculiar
form that they cannot be assigned to any group of known types.
He created a new group for their reception, Protophytce, of which
he made seven divisions. Remains of land plants are of very rare
occurrence. This hypothesis diiTers from that of Mohr in that the
plants are microscopic.
Petzholdt°° at once made a fierce critique of Reinsch himself,
his methods and his results. Of the seven divisions of Protophytce
two are decomposition products, three are certainly inorganic, one
consists of fragments of land plants and one is based on minute
fragments of coal. The decomposition products, mistaken for
organic bodies, are termed bitumen by Petzholdt, who thinks them
the same with those discovered fifty years before by Hutton in his
study of the Newcastle coals.
Fischer and Rust,-'^ following Reinsch's method, found not only
yellow and reddish resin-like bodies in black coal, such as make up
the great part of the Scotch boghead, but also small grains, showing
wood structure, in anthracite. In the black coal, they observed
spindle-shaped or serpent-shaped bodies, whose relations they could
not determine. The English cannel from Lancashire is very rich
in little resinous cylinders and, as far as richness in resinous matter
is concerned, is intermediate between the Bogheads and the ordinary
coals. These studies have an important bearing on investigations
which have attracted much attention in more recent years.
Green"- says that it is not easy to see how light material, such
as dead wood, could be spread out evenly over tracts of hundreds
of square miles, so evenly that the deposit shows comparatively little
variation in thickness ; and it is equally difficult to understand how,
in case the coal be composed of drifted materials, it could be so
pure as we often find it. The water bringing the vegetable matter
""A. Petzholdt, " Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Steinkohlenbildung," Leip-
zig, 1882, pp. 23 et seq.
"' H. Fischer and D. Rust, " Ueber d. mikroskopische Verhalten verschie-
dener Kohlenwasserstoffe, Harze und Kohlen," Croth Zcitschrift f. Kryst.,
Vol. VIL, pp. 209-243. This has not been seen by the writer. Cited by
Petzholdt and v. Giimbel.
'-A. H. Green, "Geology," Part L, Physical Geology. London, 1882, pp.
257-262.
53
