54 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
would certainly carry also mineral matter. The coal and its ash
may, both of them, be of vegetable origin. Logan's discovery of
the underclay or Seatstone under nearly every coal bed was the first
great step in the right direction toward solving the problem. Bin-
ney's study of an erect stump discovered by Hawkshaw near Man-
chester was the next, for there a Sigillaria with Stigmaria roots was
rooted in a seat clay, while the stem was surrounded by rock. Many
similar cases were discovered. The underclay was the old soil sup-
porting plants which produced a layer of nearly pure vegetable
matter. When the surface was lowered beneath the water, sand
and clay were laid on top and the band of dead plants was converted
by pressure and chemical change into a seam of coal.
When sinking ceased, the shallow water was filled up and a
swampy plain was made. \'egetation spread out from the land and
a second coal bed began to accumulate. This process repeated many
times over gave a succession of sandstone and shale with coal beds
at intervals. The great swampy expanses in the delta of the Ganges
and Brahmapootra must bear close resemblance to the marshy flats
in which the coal was formed. The nearest approach, however, is
in the accumulations on the coast of Patagonia, described by Lady
Brassey in " A Voyage in the Sunbeam " ; " To penetrate far inland
was not easy owing to the denseness of the vegetation. Large trees
had fallen and, rotting where they lay, had become the birthplace of
thousands of other trees, shrubs, plants, mosses and lichens. In
fact in some places, we might almost be said to be walking on tops
of the trees, and first one and then another of the party found his
feet slipping through into unknown depths."
There are, however, deposits of subacjueous coal, derived from
driftwood carried cjown and buried amid mechanical deposits, but
they are irregular and are apt to be impure. It is probable that the
patches of canncl coal mark sites of pools or lakes in which vege-
table matter lay until it was maceratefl into a \n\\\). This passes
gradually by increase of earthy admixture into well-stratified carbo-
naceous shale.
Green had already presented the same suggestions, though briefly,
in his work on the Yorkshire coal-field published in 1878.
54
