I9II.] STEVEXSOX— FORMATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 57
But most of the material forming the beds was transported ;
yet all coals resemble that found almost in place and the parts, cer-
tainly transported, are identical with similar parts of the rooted
stems. The materials were derived from marshy forests on borders
of the basin, which doubtless succeeded those temporarily installed
in the basin of the deposit which afterwards became a lake. At the
foot of this forest was elaborated, as in peat bogs, the humus or
fundamental material of the coal. The basin of deposit was much
like the bottom of a morass, for the mud of coal beds often resem-
bles the clay underlying peat bogs. The debris of plants falling
into water on the borders of the marsh became stratified in its
depths. Grand' Eury was convinced that by this hypothesis he had
reconciled the opposing theories, for he has shown that certain coal
beds were formed by concurrence of both processes, as in the sub-
aquatic parts of some swamps.
The permanent swamps, where primitive peat was elaborated,
were not exposed to deposit of mineral sediments, they remained
uncovered and disappeared ; so that very little of the coal formed
in place remains. The researches of Renault and C. E. Bertrand
on cannel and the fundamental matter of coal show that coal was
not always deposited on lake bottoms under moving waters, but that
it may have been formed in stagnant or quiet waters of swamps.
The coal was deposited slowly, not continuously and there may
have been long periods of arrested growth. The concentration of
fossil forests and soils of vegetation in and near coal beds proves
for the thick beds a very long period. Additional evidence in this
direction is found in the advanced decomposition of the rocks form-
ing the roof, their new chemical combinations, their impregnation
with carbon, showing that they had been long in contact with the
swamp before being transported and deposited on the coal bed.
The basin of the Loire was subjected to orogenic movements.
The fossil forests have irregular distribution both vertically and
horizontally ; great sterile deposits break up the continuity. The
basin was deepening throughout the period of formation, but each
important coal bed corresponds to an interval of stability. That
the mineral materials were brought in by streams is shown by their
o7
