58 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
(listrihiilion. The granitic rocks of the northern portion thin toward
the south and tlieir rooted stems lean toward the south and south-
east ; hut the micaceous rocks of the southern portion thin toward
the north and the rooted stems lean in the same direction, sometimes
strongly. These mineral deposits interlock as wedges. But the coal
heds pass from one type of rock to the other, preserving well their
distance and parallelism. Grand' Eury finds no evidence to support
the delta-theory of accumulation in deep hasins ; every feature leads
to the helief that the mass of rocks could accumulate only hy means
of a suhsidence, equal and progressive from the clay hottom.
In a still later paper, "^ Grand' Eury shows that coals of all kinds
are practically alike in origin.
Coal heds are deposits of allochthonous peats formed hy an
exuberant vegetation, loving water, whose detritus was carried from
shores to interior of immense marshy lagoons, where barks, cuticles
and the rest were stratified with ulmic substances under the water.
Stipites or dry coals of the Secondary in Erance are clearly the
same in origin with the coals. Mineral charcoal is so abundant in
one of the I'pper Cretaceous coals as to give a finely-stratified
structure to the bed. The brown coals of the Tertiary resemble coal
completely in mode of occurrence; they are composed of marsh
plants, leaves of dry land plants being in small proportion. Lignite
is wood-like in appearance though formed of red humus from plants ;
they show much variation, but the mass of the material is derived
from marsh forms. The peats of lowland areas or marshy plains
are allochthonous — they resemble almost all deposits of mineral coal.
Gruner*"' notes the ancient forest in the quarry of Treuil, which
had been described by Alex. l>rongniart many years before. At
100 meters lower and almost directly under the quarry, Gruner found
in the Treuil mine twelve great trunks in a space of less than lO
meters square ; their roots spread out over the coal but did not pene-
trate into it.
He cannot accept the doctrine that coal consists of transported
material. The continuity and uniformity of coal beds make a serious
"•'' C. Grand" I'.iiry. " Sur la fonuation dcs couclies dc liouille dc stipite,
dc brownkohle et de lignite," Autun, 1902, pp. 123-132.
""L. Gruner, " Bassin houiller de la Loire," Paris, 1882, pp. 160-170.
58
