I9II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 59
objection. In the little basins of Saint-Etienne, beds can be followed
5 to lo kilometers in one direction and 2 to 4 in another with little
change. He thinks that a current capable of uprooting trees would
tear away the soil and pebbles also, so as to give a mingling of trees
and detrital matter.
As large streams carry much mineral material there should be
an alternation of vegetable elements and mud — and this is found
in coal beds where shale appears in thin layers between benches
of coal. These shales or the nerfs of fine sandstone could be pro-
duced only by water-currents, by inundations of brief duration cov-
ering the debris on the surface or invading shallow basins in which
leaves, etc., were deposited slowly. The two modes of accumulation
went on simultaneously in the coal period as they do now in peat
bogs. He does not assert that coal was the peat of palaeozoic times;
the flora and the climate were difl^erent ; but the mode of formation
was the same. The plants of the coal epoch grew where their
remains are found. He cannot accept Grand' Eury's theory, which
opposes the doctrine of in situ accumulation because stumps and
trees are wanting in the coal beds themselves. Grand' Eury main-
tains that the vegetable matter was transferred from the place of
growth to the basin where the coal is found, but the distance was
small.
Gruner maintains that the current would have brought more than
leaves and stems and that it would have distributed its load unecjually ;
he thinks it preferable to conceive of a marshland extensive enough
to admit of a thick cover of vegetable debris over an area of several
thousands of square kilometers — as one finds in the Nord basin.
Grand' Eury emphasizes the absence of stumps and roots passing
from coal beds to the mur. But at Saint-Etienne itself, Lyell and
Gruner saw rootlets passing from the coal into the underclay and
Gruner saw the same condition in the Batardes coal bed, where
Stigmaria abounds in the mur. The absence of stumps in the coal
is to be expected, because the soft tissues would be crushed quickly
under pressure and all traces would be effaced ; moreover, in the
nature of the case, stumps would be only a small portion of the
mass. A negative result of study does not prove that the plants
59
