60 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
did not grow sur place. Since the rapid current, which piled sand
around the forests of Treuil, did not uproot the trees, one finds
difficulty in understanding how the waters so slightly agitated as to
be able to draw off only leaves and twigs did not leave in place the
stumps whose roots are seen to-day in the underclays.
The preservation of the underclay proves that the stumps were
not torn out before deposit of the plant debris forming the coal bed.
The clay shows no signs of erosive action such as are seen so often
in the roof. The deposit of the clay is itself a proof that then had
begun the long period of tranquillity, which continued during forma-
tion of the coal. He is convinced that it must be admitted as almost
proved that the coal beds have come from a vigorous local vegeta-
tion, whose debris accumulated at the bottom of shallow stagnant
water and probably, quite as often, on a damp but not flooded
surface.
The intervening rocks are, in character, wholly similar to part-
ings in the coal beds, but they were formed not by petty inundations
but by strong currents of prolonged duration. The existence of
these is proved by erosions as well as by the sands which covered
the coal forests. The surface subsided at intervals, as shown by
phenomena connected with the faults in the Loire basin. But the
flora was not destroyed, for one finds forests or isolated trees in
place, in sandstones at all horizons, their bark preserved as coal.
The sands are evidence that the agitated water prevented quiet depo-
sition of vegetable debris. That was destroyed or scattered afar.
Meanwhile, the sunken surface was leveled up and the depres-
sion was filled. A second marsh was formed above the first, now
buried under a thick bed of sand or mud. If the deposit of sand,
etc., did not exceed 30 meters, the conditions under which the new
bed was formed might not differ from those of the earlier bed. But
when the sterile interval attains great thickness, 100 to 800 meters,
the period of depression was very long and before its close the flora
had undergone modification. Thus it is that one finds successive
appearance of varied types, so that classification of the Coal ]\Ieas-
ures by their flora becomes possible. Subsidence of the type here
conceived has been observed in rocks of all epochs. Lament and
