62 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
nally soluble, but became insoluble, so tliat tbe whole is amorphous
and apparently structureless." The taking up of this material is the
Inkohlungsprozess.
Adjacent rocks, containing plant remains, may have contributed
to this coalification by means of circulating waters. It is self-
evident that this soluble material might be deposited by itself apart
from any remains of plants, not merely as layers of a coal bed but
also in cracks and fissures : but such layers of structureless coal
could have contributed in only subordinate manner to the formation
of coal beds.
The several types of coal, Glanz-. ATatt-, Faser-, Cannelkohle
and the rest cannot have originated under similar conditions. In
considering these he takes the most complicated condition — where
several varieties occur in the same bed. Three modes of explana-
tion are suggested by the investigations : ( 1 ) Original diiTerences in
kinds and parts of plants; (2) differing conditions, chemical and
mechanical, in which the plants came to contribute toward making
the coal; (3) heterogeneous external conditions under which the
transformation was completed.
Difference in material in the several types of coal appeared con-
stantly during the study ; bark, and woody parts along with leaves
in Glanzkohle ; abundance of leaf organs, especially of the epidermis
layers and less abundance of hard parts in Mattkohle; constant
recurrence of little balls, membranes, the spores of authors, in aston-
ishing abundance with algae-like clumps in cannel-like layers; all
proving a certain dej)endence of constitution on the character of
the plant remains. It is clear that the condition under which the
{)lant material was accumulated was of great importance. This is
evident from the great amount of b'aserkohle | fusain, mineral char-
coal]. If this material result from decay in free air, as would occur
in the occasional (lr\ing of the surface in peat l)ogs, one must con-
cede that this process was of vast extent during the coal-making
time. It is unnecessary to sup]:)ose that the great supply was swept
in ; it could have been produced as readily on the bog surface. Simi-
larly the dismembered parts of plants, clods or flocks, and the rest
belong to a stadium anterior to formation of the coal. The pres-
62
