191 1.] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 63
ence of plant remains in soil, in every peat bog, justifies us in
tracing back in some degree, certain relations of coal formation to
similar origin. Accumulation of cannel-like coaly substances can-
not be explained otherwise. The tertiary gas coal of Falkenau,
pyropissite and Lebertorf all consist of a similar wholly broken up
mass of plant parts. External relations had much to do with the
conditiens. If inflowing water bring much mineral matter into a
bog, the borders are impure while the main portion is pure. So a
coal may be impure on the borders and pure in deeper portions of the
basin. Even the character of the overlying rock may be important.
Passing from the composition of the coals, he considers the mode
of accumulation; first of all. rejecting absolutely as without founda-
tion, the doctrine that coal could have been formed in the open sea
and from seaweeds.
Coal beds consist of alternating, mostly very thin layers, like
beds of sedimentary matter ; this, with the fact that they are asso-
ciated in series with undoubted sediments, seems to afiford proof
for the opinion that coal beds originate as do other sedimentary
strata, in contradiction of the so-called peat theory, which accepts
the idea of an origin in place after the manner of peat bogs. If
one confine his attention solely to this layer-like accumulation and
make no further inquiry, the conditions appear so completely ex-
plained bv the former doctrine that facts favoring the latter have
no value. \'. Gumbel thinks that the presence of upright stems is
of comparatively little importance as a proof of autochthonous
origin, since their presence is exceptional and it can be explained
in. several ways — by drifting, by advance of waters into swamp
forests or by plant growths floating on the water.
A careful examination of the query as to whether or not the
lamination of coal can be explained by anything except deposit of
suspended matter, leads to surprising results, when extended to the
newer coal accumulations. The Quaternary brown coal ofi^ers an
instructive illustration of the mode in which the lamination origi-
nated. These have absolutely the same structure as that of stone
coal beds. It is known positively that they owe their origin to peat-
like swamps and that the clayey, sandy partings, which accompany
63
