64 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
them, proceeded from occasional overflows. Coming down a step
farther to the coal making of our own time and ignoring for the
present the various local modifications of peat, one can recognize
two distinct modifications ; Autochthonous, that forming or originat-
ing in place, and Allochthonous, the sedimentary, due to deposit of
plant detritus in pent up waters. The latter shows, of course, evi-
dence of sedimentary origin, is more or less dense and homogeneous,
contains much earthy matter and the plant remains are notably
advanced in change. Often it shows lamination only on drying.
All kinds of peat have the lamination. In Moortorf there are
often alternating layers, dififering in color, density and composition ;
in Specktorf the structure is especially distinct. Peat then is not
an unstratified mass and one cannot say that the lamination of coal
places it out of comparison with peat. Close investigation shows
so many similarities between the peat layers and those of some coals,
that this kind of structure favors rather than opposes comparison
of coal-making with peat-making. This lamination appears in the
autochthonous peat, in the diluvial brown coal originating in peat
and in the whole range of the brown coal formation. But one must
remember that the coals were not all formed on the same model ;
that comparison with peat is only tentative, as modern peat is made
from moss and swamp grasses, while in the coal time the deposits
came from a wholly difi^erent moor and swamp vegetation.
The stone coal formation for the most part is to be regarded
as an inland formation, originating in widespread leveling and sub-
siding of the land, in many cases on swampy lowland along the sea-
coast, over which floods distributed materials, such as shale and
sandstone. On the extensive but not high land of the Carboniferous
time, waters were penned in great areas and became converted into
morasses, where a luxuriant vegetation flourished. It is very prob-
able that in occasional drying of the swamp followed by renewal of
the flooding, one may find explanation of the alternating bright and
dull coal. This does not exclude influ.x of broken and shattered
plant stuff from the higher surrounding region ; that might even
have predominated in some localities and have been the basis for
cannel and boghead. Even from llic swamp vegetation itself, decay-
64
