I9II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 87
peat; paper peat, which is a bituminous clay with infusoria; Blatter-
kohle, a marly clay with a little sedimentary peat.
Pelagochthonous types are : ( i ) Normal Carboniferous coal fields.
The coal beds have originated from floating forests and remains of
rooted trees occur in very limited localities. Naumann's paralic
coal-fields belong here; they are found in America, China, etc. (2)
Sea basin deposits, consisting of limited but often very thick beds,
the coal frequently thinning seaward ; these contain, besides sylvo-
marine remains, abundant remains of trees rooted in clay. Best
seen in France. Here, in part, Naumann's limnic basins. (3)
Amorphous anthracite, consisting of the finest detritus and forming
irregular deposits; does not include Faser-, Staub-or Koksanthracite
coal.
Penhallow*^ has given the results obtained by study of cannel-
like coal from the lower Alesozoic of British Columbia. All the
samples are composed of rod-like bodies more or less closely com-
pressed, which resemble dark amber and are embedded in a cement-
ing material. The rods show tubules within, many of them branch-
ing, which are very suggestive of Mycelium; granulations are com-
mon and often form zones around hyaloid areas. The features
revealed by the microscope are :
(i) Absence of structure, (2) tubular ramuli of diverse dimen-
sions, (3) rounded cavities, (4) large proportion of material in
angular fragments and resembling that of the rods, (5) an amor-
phous substance, associated with (4), occurring as distinct flakes or
as cement to unite the rods.
Appearance of structure was observed in only one rod and in
that case it is evidently due to shrinkage; he thinks the spore-like
aggregations are of chemical rather than of organic origin. The
general character of the ramuli at once suggest Mycelium, but the
intimate features and the arrangement forbid reference to vegetable
structure. They rather resemble effects of internal shrinkage, fol-
lowing hardening of the outer layer, such as one sees in amber and
other resins. The material occupying spaces between the rods and
*° D. P. Penhallow, " A Preliminary Examination of So-called Cannel
Coal from the Kootanie of British Columbia," Amcr. Geologist, X., 1892, pp.
331-339-
87
