88 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
apparently cementing them " consists of an amorphous and irregular
mass full of rounded holes, therehy giving it a spongy character."
It contains fragments of perhaps broken rods, the material in both
being the same. The source of the amorphous material is not
certain.
Penhallow offers no positive hypothesis respecting the origin of
these coals, though he is inclined to think that it must be " sought
elsewhere than in modified vegetable structure." At the same time,
he feels that the evidence is not sufficient to justify the assertion that
they did not originate in vegetable structure.
In 1892 and 1893 there appeared papers by Bertrand and Renault
describing Bogheads and related types. Afterwards those observers
published their results independently. The later studies of Renault
concern the matter in hand only indirectly and they will receive
consideration in another portion of this work. It is necessary, how-
ever, to make detailed reference to Bertrand's contributions, for,
though they consider similar topics, the conclusions have a notable
bearing on the formation of coal beds ; and in this connection, the
stratigraphical relations of the several types must be given. With-
out that one cannot appreciate the full bearing of the studies. The
joint study by Bertrand and Renault''*^ was of boghead obtained
from Permian beds at Autun, France. This deposit occupies an
area of 7 kilometers by 150 to 450 meters. The chief constituent
is a thallophyte, Pila bibractciisis, which makes up about three fourths
of the mass ; the remaining fourth being the " fundamental mate-
rial " with some clay. A'egetable debris is wanting, but pollen of
Cordaitcs and remains of fishes are present.
These observers recognized the bodies of yellow, red and other
tints, which had been mentioned by earlier students, but their study
proved that " certain resin-like bodies represent the organic gelose
and even entire organisms. A great proportion of the yellow and
red bodies enclosed in coals are in this category and M. P. F.
Reinsch has the great merit of making this known." The inferior
gelatinous plants have been preserved in this way when buried in
^"C. Eg. Bertrand ct B. Renault, " Pila bihractcnsis et le boghead d'Autun,"
Bull. Soc. d'Hist. Nat. d'Autun, V., 1892, Separate, pp. 95, pi. 2.
88
