90 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
ley, Joadja creek and Wollongong at the south and Murrurundi
(Doughboy hollow) at the north. The only important deposit in
the Lower Coal Measures is at Greta near Newcastle in northeast
port of the province.
Long ago, Clarke®'* recognized the close resemblance of this
mineral to the boghead or Torbanite of Scotland. He thought it
due to local decomposition of some resinous wood and believed that
the lens-form of the deposits and their passage laterally into shale
could be explained easily by supposing the mineral to be due to
drifted resinous trees, undergoing changes in shallow pools sur-
rounded by material changing into ordinary coal. The quartzose
constituents are merely sand carried by wind into the pool. The
thickness of the deposit depended only on the supply of drift timber.
Wilkinson"" says that the kerosene shale occurs in irregular
lenses, sometimes in actual contact with layers of coal as at Joadja
creek, sometimes wholly unassociated with layers of coal, as at
Hartley, or even as forming part of a great coal bed, as at Greta.
At the last locality, the boghead is a great lens in the coal, but there
are many petty lenses of the same material scattered through the
coal benches. At Joadja, one finds small irregular patches of bright
jet-like material, plant remains lying horizontally and numerous
vertical stems of J\vtcbraria. whose lustrous bright jet substance is
in contrast with the dull luster of the shale.
David''^ found the shale in one place at the bottom of a great
coal bed; Mackenzie''- found it at the top in another; while in still
another David found a mass of alternating coal, clay and " shale,"
five beds of the boghead and four of bituminous coal. xAt the last
locality the whole mass thinned out in one direction, the several
layers disappearing in succession until the last layer of boghead
passed into bituminous shale. There he saw many stems of Verte-
braria, both vertical and i)rostrate; in one tunnel, some of them four
*" VV. B. Clarke, "Mines and Mineral Statistics of New Soutli Wales,"
Sydney, 1875, pp. 17^-180.
'^ C. S. Wilkinson, " ]\Iines and Min. Stat., 1875," p. 131; Ann. Rep. Dept.
Mines, 1884, pp. 149, 156; i8go, p. 208.
"T. W. E. David, Ann. Rep. Dept. Mines, 1888, p. 170: 1890, pp. 221-224;
1892, pp. 159-163.
"-J. Alackenzie, Rep. 1895, p. 104.
90
