I9IT.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 91
inches in diameter were converted into coal. ^Mineral charcoal is
abundant in a mine in Camden County, while at Murrurundi the
boghead " contains numerous fragments of mother-of-coal and small
fragments of what appears to be coniferous wood like Arancaria,
together with coniferous fruit."
In the pages already cited, David gives ten analyses by Mungaye,
which show that at Murrurundi the ash varies from ly to 68 per
cent, and the fuel ratio from o.ii to 0.24; while at Ketoomba eight
analyses show ash from 10.7 to 78.1 and the fuel ratio from 0.13
to 1. 10. A specimen from Joadja Creek had "jy per cent, of silica
in the ash.
The material studied by Bertrand and Renault consisted of two
great blocks, one in Paris and the other in Brussels, each more than
one meter thick, apparently the full thickness of the deposit. Like
the Autun mineral, the kerosene shale consists of a fundamental
brown, flocculent material, holding alg?e and remains of dead plant
tissues. The algae are assigned to the genus Rcinschia, now ex-
tinct, but belonging to a group which was spread widely during
Permo-Carboniferous times. The alg^e are all separate, though, at
times, owing to paucity of the fundamental matter, they are in con-
tact, they are still independent. They were free, floating on the
surface of absolutely tranquil brown water, and they rained down
upon the bottom, while at the same time, under the influence of cal-
careous waters, an ulmic jelly was precipitated to form the funda-
mental material. The great specimen in the Paris ^Museum shows
36,000 beds of these alg^e, but the proportion of algae varies in the
several layers from 0.019 to 0.900 of the whole mass. At Joadja
creek the mineral is often beautiful, with a satin-like homogeneous
surface, and it consists almost wholly of the alga?.
Infiltrations are here as at Autun. The most important is red-
brown, in strings or sheets, and shows fluidal structure ; it is harder
than the fundamental material ; it often impregnates leaves and
wood ; some plants have the property of absorbing this to a notable
extent. Its mode of occurrence and its tendency to penetrate the
substance of plant remains suggest great resemblance to the thelotite
of Autun. The authors make no attempt to decide respecting the
91
