92 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
source of this infiltration ; they are convinced that it penetrated the
deposit, if not contemporaneously, at least very soon after its forma-
tion and they suggest that it may be a kind of asphaltum, like that
of lake Brea in Trinidad. The kerosene shale contains no animals
except at ^lurrurundi, where some coprolites have been discovered.
It is a charbon produced by unaltered gelosic organisms.
Bertrand's''^ later studies were published in a series of papers,
his conclusions being summed up in a memoir presented to the
Geological Congress at Paris in 1900.
The bogheads, typified by deposits at Autun of France, the Tor-
banite of Scotland and the kerosene shale of New South Wales are
charbons gelosiques of Bertrand, accumulations of fresh water algae
in a humic jelly, their fossilization being in the presence of bitumen.
The basal material of all is a clear brown fundamental jelly, the
dull part of the bogheads and the same as the basal material of
V. Giimbel's Mattkohle. Spores and pollen have undergone macera-
tion, but they did not liquefy. They gave two kinds of yellow
bodies and they condensed bitumen strongly. When they abound,
the coal, though dull, is brighter than mattkohle. Debris of vege-
table matter, also a contribution by the wind, is distributed irregu-
larly. The hardened tissues are usually brilliant, prismatic like
v. Giimbel's Glanzkohle. Wood and barks can be found as brilliant
coal, but this depends less on their organic nature than on the extent
of alteration and their capacity to imbibe bitumen. A^getation
along river banks yielded tree-trunks, which, after imbibing bitu-
men, were converted into bright coal.
The alg?e were flcurs d'caii. They consisted of gelose and a
little protoplasm, which, when humefied, would condense bitumen.
They descended in sheets with other accidental bodies ; in times of
low water, the descent would be very slow, Ijeing impeded by the
°^ C. Eg. Bertrand, i, " Xouvcllcs rcniarques sur Ic kerosene shale de
Nouv, Galles du Sud.," Bull. Soc. d'Hist. Nat. d'Autuii, IX., i8g6; 2, 3, "Con-
ferences sur les charbons de tcrre," Bull. Soc. Beige de Geol., etc., VII., 1894;
XI., i8f;8; (4) Caracteristiques dii kerosene shale," Assoc. Franc, pour
ravancon. dcs .SV;., 1807; (5) " Lcs charbons humiques et les charbons de
purins," Traz\ et Mem. dc rVnk\ dc Lille, W., 1898; (6) C. R. du Congres
Int. de Geol., Paris, igoo, pp. 458-407.
92
