'9"] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 93
fundamental jelly. Each ball of gelose yielded a little mass of
glassy, transparent gold-yellow hydrocarbon.
The bituminous matter found in all is wholly dilTerent from the
fundamental material. There is proof of its intervention, for it
follows clefts made by contraction of the fundamental material,
which it does not color. The coalilied stems of Vcrtcbraria on
Joadja creek are humefied vegetable material charged with bitumen.
There is no evidence that this bituminous enrichment was due to
condensation of resinous matter held in suspension by the funda-
mental material ; nor is there any evidence that the fundamental
material originated from alteration of the enclosed bodies.
The accumulation could be made with remarkable rapidity. A
few good days with low water would suffice. All the accidental
bodies, enveloped in a humic coagulum, make a raft on the abso-
lutely tranquil water. A very slight cause, colder weather, more
water, would hinder formation of gelose and cause descent. The
precipitation of brown matter was continuous but formation of
gelosic matter was fortuitous ; with check of algic growth, the deposit
passes over to a humic coal or organic shale. The vegeto-humic
deposit was fixed at once and remained unaltered. The fossiliza-
tion was in the presence of bitumen, which became altered so as to
be insoluble in the ordinary solvents of asphaltum.***
Bertrand's charbons humiques differ from the charbons gelo-
siques in that the fundamental matter is not diluted with foreign
bodies. They are typified by the Broxburn shales of Scotland, con-
taining, according to Cadell, about 75 per cent, of ash. Accidental
bodies, such as algse, spores, pollen, vegetable debris are in small
proportion. Bitumen penetrated through the fundamental jelly and
enriched the shale. Bertrand finds no evidence that this bitumen
is a leakage or exudation from a fermenting vegetable mass ; he
believes that it was in the water and that it penetrated the accidental
bodies only with difficulty.
'* After the memoir was read in the Paris congress, de Lapparent asked
what is to be understood by the term " bitumen." Bertrand replied that " the
term bitumen implied for him the idea of a substance charged with carbon
and hydrogen, intervening wholly formed in the rock.'"
9a
