94 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
Gresley^^ called attention to the persistence of slate partings in
the Pittsburgh coal bed as having an important bearing on the
origin of coal beds. Two of them, one fourth to one half inch thick
and separated by 3 to 4 inches of coal, are present in an area of
15,000 square miles. Under the lower one is a coal bench somewhat
more than 2 feet thick, while above the upper one is a bench varying
from 3 to 5 feet. The clay of the thin binders or slate partings is
extremely fine grained, mottled, non-plastic, contains macrospores
and indefinite plant remains, but no Stigmaria.
Accepting in full the doctrine of transport, he assumes that, at
the close of deposition of the lowest bench, that mass of vegetable
matter lay practically level on the bottom of a vast lake or inland
sea. Such being the condition he finds difficulty in explaining the
overlying shale as due to fine material brought in by currents ; the
shale is uniform in thickness and composition over a great area, so
that the supply of material must have been uniform throughout;
there could have been no changes in currents or offshore conditions
during the period of deposition. The quantity is not less than 100
tons per acre. He finds equal dit^culty in the suggestions that the
shale consists of wind-blown dust, that it is a precipitate from solu-
tion, that it is concretionary. The supposition that these shales are
substitution or replacement formations or that there was a segrega-
tion of inorganic substances during solidification or the process of
coal- forming involves serious difficulties. " To suppose that such
shale bands were originally thin films of chalky mud, since chem-
ically converted into silica, alumina, iron, etc., would, I think, be
exceedingly unsafe." At the same time, he suggests that the globi-
gerina ooze, widespread " over the bottom of the Atlantic, where
deepest and farthest from land would seem to furnish us with about
the only way (as to physical conditions) in which our shale binders
in the 'Pittsburg' coal bed can be imagined to have accumulated."
If the lower slate binder was really deposited as silt by aqueous
transportation, the interesting query presents itself, How could the
succeeding 4 inches of coal be formed in situ?
"^W. S. Greslcy, "The Slate Binders of the Pittsburg Coal Bed," Amcr.
Geologist, XIV., 1894, pp. 356-395-
94
