98 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
subject in 1905 ;''^ since that time, in successive editions, he has
widened the scope of his inquiries until, in the fifth, the presentation
covers every phase with abundant illustration from German areas
and references to those of other lands. Only certain portions of the
work can be referred to in this place but, farther on, many citations
will be made. He approaches the subject from the double stand-
point of stratigraphy and palaeobotany.
The coals and allied substances are termed Kaustobiolithe, be-
cause they are combustible rocks of organic origin. He groups
them into — •
Sapropel deposits, originally " stinking muds " composed of aquatic
animals and plants.
Humus deposits, derived from land plants.
The former include the cannels, the oil shales and, as a derived
product, petroleum ; the latter include the ordinary brown and stone
coals. The difference in origin of the two groups is evident from
the physical composition shown by the microscope as well as by the
chemical composition, the Sapropels yielding compounds of the para-
ffine group while humus deposits yield compounds of the benzol
group. The Sapropels are formed in quiet, almost or wholly stag-
nant water and are of limited extent ; whereas the humus deposits
were formed as are the moors of to-day and are of vast extent.
He illustrates the modes of origin by description of a great bog in
northern Germany, which exhibits the passage from sapropel muds
at its shore, to the Flachmoor, well wooded ; thence by the Zwisch-
enmoor, with changing type of trees, to the Hochmoor, hour-glass in
form, which is treeless except alongside of rivulets. He compares
the conditions with those existing in sapropel and humus deposits of
the older periods. The existence of both autochthonous and alloch-
thonous deposits is recognized, but he asserts that the former have
been the prevailing type throughout and that, in every age, the
latter have played an insignificant part.
Potonie finds a strong argument for autochthony in the surpris-
ing resemblances, chemical and ]^lnsical, existing between beds of
"" H. Potonie, " Die Enstehung dcr Stcinkolile," Matimciss. IVochcnsclirift,
IV., 1005, pp. 1-12: tlic latest edition i,s "Die En.stehung der Steinkohle und
der Kanstoliiolithe iibcrliaupt," fnnfste Aufl., Berlin, 1910, pp. 225.
*J8
