19"] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 99
brown and black coal on one side and the modern Flachmoor on the
other. The laminated structure is frequently present in peat. The
vast extent of some beds of comparatively pure coal cannot be
paralleled in recent autochthonous deposits, but the latter are of
great extent in some regions, whereas no extensive areas of alloch-
thonous carbon deposits are known to exist anywhere. He lays great
stress upon the occurrence of sub-surface parts of fossil plants in the
soils where they grew, the so-called petrified humus-soils. He
emphasizes especially the mode in which the Stigiiiaria rhizomas and
their appendices penetrate the underclay of coal beds, spreading out
and interlacing in such a manner that transport is inconceivable.
They must be in place. Equally conclusive are the modes in which
roots of Calaniariacccc rhizomas occur in the clays. This almost
universal underclay was the soil in which were rooted trees introduc-
ing the moor- formation.
The occurrence of forest beds in stone- and brown-coal forma-
tion is not infrequent. He notes that at White Inch near Glasgow,
Scotland, and that near Senftenberg. Sometimes the profile is shown
in the roof ; sometimes there are successive forests embedded as
at Senftenberg, where erect stumps are associated with prostrate
trunks. These are conditions familiar to students of modern
swamps. The mode in which the Sfigmaricc have developed indi-
cates, in some localities, even the prevailing direction of the wind
at the time the trees grew. The growth of reeds in banks and the
parallel arrangement of their roots are the same in Mesozoic, Ceno-
zoic and recent deposits.
Potonie carefully distinguishes the features of autochthonous de-
posits as contrasted with those of allochthonous origin, elaborating
the discussion given in the paper just cited. He states that Stig-
maria is not rare in the Commentry basin and that his search there
for that plant was rewarded abundantly. He discovered ' a fine
autochthonous stump, with spreading stigmarian rhizomas, still re-
taining the delicate appendices, the whole occupying a space of 6
meters diameter. He found there also a fern tree, almost com-
pletely preserved and with a frond attached to the stem. He con-
cludes that the condition must have been that of great quiet to
permit so nearly complete preservation.
99
