100 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
Potonie's description of secondary-allochthonous formations, due
to erosion and transport of materials from beds already existing,
will find place in another connection, as will also his arguments
drawn from the testimony of the fossil plants, respecting which his
authority is unquestioned.
Ochsenius"-' published man}- noteworthy papers but that of 1896
is especially important in this connection. The author recognizes the
force of the objection to allochthony — that, as running water carries
organic and inorganic materials together, the deposit should be an
indiscriminate mass of both kinds but his recent study of coal beds
in the Lahn country has convinced him that phenomena observed in
the Frische Haff present a true explanation and destroy the force of
the objection. The history of the Frische Flaff is complete since
1510.-"
The A'istula, a stream laden with everything that can be drawn
from a rich lowland province, gives off an arm at Peickel, the Nogat,
which flows northeast to the long narrow Frische Haff, separated
from the Gulf of Dantzig by the Frisch Xehrung or lowland, and
communicating with the gulf by the Pillauer Tiefs at its northern
end. For convenience of discussion, he confines his attention to the
Nogat, ignoring the old \'istula and the rivers which enter from the
east.
Under the supposed conditions, the sea having control and the
Hafif being filled with salt water, a marine bed is deposited on the
floor. Such beds occur locally at the bottom and higher up in the
series of coal deposits. Phase i of coal formation is brought about
through sanding up of Pillauer Tiefs by wave action, and the conse-
quent conversion of the Haft" into a fresh-water basin by influx from
the Nogat. The debris brought down by that river, an indiscriminate
mass of organic and inorganic material, will be deposited on the
bottom. H now the sea cut a shallow i)assage through the lowland,
floating stems and twigs would form a " rake " at the head of the
'■" C. Ocliscnius, "Die Bildung dcv Kohleiiflotzc," Verhandlungcn, II.,
Erste Ilalftc, pp. 224-230.
'""The Frische Haff is a great souiul on tlie border of the Gulf of Dantzig,
about 60 miles long by 5 to 7 miles witle. It may be compared as to super-
ficial area and position to Lake Ponchartrain on the Mississippi delta.
100
