^911.] STEVEXSOX— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 101
passage. If the water-surface of inflowing stream be lowered, a
"barricade" of wood would accumulate in curves and narrows of
the Nogat. to become compacted in time — a familiar phenomenon in
this day. This " barricade " would prevent passage of large wood
and only fine material. " Spulgut '' would go over to be deposited as
a layer in the coal basin, /. c, the Haff. Brushwood would be caught
by the " rake " beyond. Thus a bituminous shale with plant impres-
sions and paper-like laminae of bright coal would accumulate.
Phase 2 comes with moderate height of the water. Now there
goes with the " Spulgut " also the " Sperrgut," stems, rooted stumps,
branches and the rest, which the Mstula pushes over into the Nogat ;
but the " rake " does not permit its escape to the sea, it circles round
in the basin, finally sinks and forms pure coal. So much of the mud
as does not pass through the " rake " will accumulate on the borders
or be mingled with the coal magma, as clay is in the globigerina ooze ;
or it may form bands in coal beds. Repeated sinkings of waterlevel
in the feeding stream, the Xogat in this case, would give a clay shale
like the floor as roof, the roof of the coal. Xo sand or gravel could
pass the " barricade "" but it would be heaped up there. Phase 3
comes with a high flood, which overthrows the " barricade " and
pushes all into the coal basin. The sand and gravel form sandstones
and conglomerates as roof of coal beds and formation of coal ceases.
The woody portions become at most only isolated stems buried in the
" Rollgut " ; by repeated pressure they may perhaps be pushed into
an oblique position. If the " rake " be torn away, the sea water again
enters the basin and lays down a marine bed.
This is the characteristic succession in coal bed formation. All
depends on the condition of the water-level. Changes in that cause
alternation of clay, shale, coal and psammite. and effect the sharp
mechanical separation of those substances by the easily explained
formation of " Rakes " and '" Barricades." The elevation of import-
ant mountain ranges in Carboniferous and Tertiary times afforded
abundant material for widespread lowlands, approximating sea-level.
These advanced seaward and their luxuriant forest growth yielded
material for the stone-and brown coals. Networks of rivers must
have cut through the lowlands and must have deposited their loads
101
