102 STEVENSON— FOR^IATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
in huge depressions. It is clear that many channels fed the coal
basin, but all worked after the same fashion. The process through-
out was that which Ochsenius terms " Barrenwirkungen " or barri-
cade action.
The memoir discusses many details, rock fragments in coal,
stumps filled with sandstone, the occurrence of gypsum, the presence
of land shells, all of which are explained very readily by the theory.
The conditions at Senftenberg, described by Potonie, are clearly due
to this barricade-action.
The numerous coal beds of the Carboniferous were deposited
quietly, but they are rarely more than 15 meters thick; whereas the
brown coal beds are comparatively few in number, show irregular
deposit and at times attain a thickness of 50 meters. The explanation
is simple. The soft plants of the Carboniferous had, at most, a
diameter of one meter and a height of 40 meters, so that they floated
easily in a few meters of water over the "barricade"; whereas the
Tertiary and Quaternary giant trees had a diameter of 10 meters and
a height of 170 meters, so that they needed a depth of, say, 15 meters
to float them over the "barricade." Clearly a depth of one meter
would sink more quickly to some centimeters so as to permit only
" Spulgut " to pass than would a depth of 15 meters— whence the
more frequent interruption of coal deposit in the Carboniferous and
the great constancy of formation in Neozoic time.
Almost all our mighty coal deposits are freshwater formations,
which came into existence through the factor of " Barrenwirkungen."
Autochthonv holds in their formation an exceedingl}- limited place
in comparison with that of allochthony.
Schmitz^'" has contributed a series of important papers to the
literature of the subject.
In 1894, he regarded the ;'// .s-/7// doctrine as merely a hypothesis.
The presence of transported pebbles in the coal itself rather favors
the doctrine that the coal is comjiosed of transported materials.
"" G. Schmitz. " A pr<)])os des cailloux roules dn liouillcr," ./«;;. Soc. Geol.
dc Bclgiquc, XXT., i8(;4, \^\^. Ixxi-lxxv; "La signification geogenique des
Stigniaria au mur des conches d'liouille," Ann. Soc. Sicnt. dc BntxcUes, XXL,
i<^07, 6 pp.; " Formation snr place de la lionillc," Kcv. des. Quest. Scicntifiqucs,
Avril, 1906, 35 ])|),. I) pi.
102
