I9II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 103
These pebbles, he had discovered, are much more numerous than had
been supposed. They are covered with a carbonaceous patine and
are found mostly in the lower portion of the beds ; he never saw any
in the upper portions. The patine suggests that the pebbles may have
made a long journey in fermenting pulp, and he thinks that their
presence with this coating is confirmatory of Renault's opinions re-
specting the conditions of deposition of materials composing the coal.
At the same time, the " French theory " of the origin of coal, though
probable for the ensemble of the coal formation, does not explain the
underclay. As for Belgium, the special, the constant facies of the
mur is evidence of formation in place. The convincing fact is the
presence of Stigiiiaria in the mur with interlacing of the rootlets.
Stigiiiaria remains in the roof are fragmentary.
In 1897, Schmitz reviewed Potonie's paper on Autochthonie ; he
recognizes that the mur is autochthonous but is not satisfied that that
necessarily involves the conclusion that the coal itself is autochthon-
ous also. A mur without coal is evidence of erosion, that its vege-
table cover has been washed away. If there be coal without mur, it
is allochthonous. A thick bed may be autochthonous below and
allochthonous above. While recognizing the valency of many of the
arguments presented by Potonie, he is not convinced that they are
final.
In 1906, he reviewed the whole subject. His own position in 1896
was that of uncertainty between the old doctrine of autochthony and
the new forms of allochthony presented by Fayol and Grand' Eury.
Many phenomena observed in the Belgian basins seemed to support
Fayol's hypothesis, but the mur, with Stigiiiaria, clearly in loco iiatali,
is a fact which cannot be ignored. Autochthony found its chief sup-
port in conditions observed in recent swamps, but the knowledge
of those was too imperfect to make the argument wholly satisfactory ;
so that Schmitz. at that time, was inclined to hold an intermediate
position and to think that both doctrines might be true.
But Potonie's later publication.^'^- based on the study of swamps
in a great area, goes far toward removing objections. Schmitz sum-
marizes the processes described as occurring in the formation of
^''" " Die Enstehung der Steinkohle."
103
