104 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
Sapropel ; the gradations from peat to coal ; and asserts that all point
toward autochthony. He antagonizes conclusions drawn from the
presence of vegetable matter in material obtained by deep-sea dredg-
ing in the Gulf of Mexico, for that is mingled with ooze and proves
nothing for transport. He maintains that vegetable pulp cannot be
transported far without notable loss and he urges that black waters
from swamps soon lose their color through oxidation, as appears
from conditions in the Congo, Rio Negro and other rivers. De Lap-
parent has protested agamst the " fascination of present causes " and
Schmitz admits willingly that it is an error to seek in the present an
absolute representative of the past ; but he asserts that it is equally
an error to disregard the present in the study of the past.
Schmitz presents an elaborate argument. He traces the for-
mation of Sapropel in an arm of the sea, the encroachment of vege-
tation, the formation of a bog covered by trees — the tourbicrc
boiscc, the loss of moisture and the destruction of the forest, the for-
mation of the moss bog with Sphagnum,, Scheuchscria, etc. — the
tourbicrc bonibcc or hochmoor, which may continue to rise until it
reach the heath stage — that of final decrepitude. He shows how this
normal development is often interrupted, that a newer stage may
return to an older stage or may originate without existence of pre-
vious stages.
The wooded bogs are modern representatives of the Carbonifer-
ous type. They show conditions observed in the coal beds ; peaty
maceration disintegrates the most resistant plants so that one rarely
recognizes the parts. The mode of growth in bog plants resembles
that of the coal plants ; the root is radial not tap. He describes an
extensive bog in Hanover, in which the peat had been burned, leaving
exposed great tree-trunks, the luxurious crown existing when the bog
was wooded; if that bog had been covered with sediment during the
life of those trees, there would have been a legion of autochthonous
tree-trunks.
The immensity of the great coal areas, to be compared with the
immensity of modern bogs, must not be disregarded. One cannot
think of the great Westphalian-Belgian-English basin as a mere
lagoon to be fdlcd l)y rivers ; and Schmitz asks how vast must have
104
