I9II.] STEVEXSOX— FORMATIOX OF COAL BEDS. 107
beds were formed of transported vegetable matter deposited in
basins of deep water. In this later memoir, he discusses the laws
governing deposition of inorganic materials of varying density and
shape, on lake bottoms in tranquil water, on beds of streams and on
shores exposed to the action of waves. This completed, he applies
the ascertained principles to explain the formation of coal deposits.
The basins in which those deposits were laid down were ordi-
narily gaping faults, very long except where divided transversely
b}- uplifted granite, and, in many cases, the fault is still apparent.
Streams began to flow into the basins at once. Where the fault
valley was divided transversely by uplifted granite, lake basins were
formed like Commentry, Alontvicq, etc., in which the beds are irreg-
ular. At other times the fracture valley retained its length and was
wide enough to be a strait or estuary, common to several rivers and
bordering on seas extensive enough to be aft'ected by tides and waves.
Respecting the latter he makes the frank remark : " It is hardly pos-
sible to admit that the areas of coal deposit were in direct commu-
nication with the high sea, because high-level floods are little com-
patible with free access of this [the ocean] ; now, the floods are a
condition, sine qua iion, of vegetable contributions; it is necessary,
then, to admit that the areas of deposition were lagoons, sheltered
from the ordinary tides, fronted by vast low plains, themselves
above the tides and furnishing few coarse elements to the river
load."
Other basins retaining their length, were less afifected by marine
conditions, possibly because of the narrowness or because of varia-
tions in level. Of such is the great syncline extending from Moulins
to Decazeville. The deposits are lacustrian. The form of the
depression aft'ects the speed of currents and therefore the type of
deposits; if broad, the rivers from diiTerent points form deltas, but
if narrow, the speed along the middle is such as to sweep away such
deposits. The contrasting conditions are shown by the Saint-Etienne
and Rive-de-Gier divisions of the Loire coal basin.
The vegetable matter, to form coal beds, was brought in mostly
during floods ; some of it remained afloat ; some was held in sus-
pension ; while some, which had undergone thorough maceration,
107
