108 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 2..
sank immediately. But all alike were deposited at last on the soaked
talus of the delta. The lake basin, in which the deposition was
made, is conceived to have been quite deep, for Lemiere's diagram
shows curves to a depth of 350 meters and the last is still at consid-
erable distance from the bottom ; it is supposed also to be large in
comparison with the breadth of the tributary streams. The impor-
tant source of plant material is the space along the streams between
the average low water line and that reached by high floods ; but the
still higher portions of the drainage area, being exposed to rain and
wind, would contribute.
During a long period of low water, little aside from inorganic
matter would be carried to the basin ; but when that was followed
by a period of heavy rains, the forested area was invaded, the vege-
table contributions were increased, while inrjrganic contributions
were decreased. The forest soil was covered with humus, which
had been accumulating without cessation. The soil, thus covered,
became increasingly unfavorable to vegetation, whose roots as
Grand' Eury says, hate to penetrate it deeply. Lemiere thinks this
a "peremptory argument against formation siir place of coal beds
formed by aerial plants very different from those which have formed
peat bogs. That the forest might continue and might renew itself
after destruction, it was necessary that the soil be cleared away at
intervals by winds, rains and especially by floods."
The humus, already macerated and denser than living plants,
was swept off first ; afterwards, the living plants would be uprooted
and broken. The macerated humus, being denser, was deposited on
the convex surfaces of the delta, while the living plants had to
become watersoaked before sinking, so that they were superimposed
upon the other plant material. They would come to rest more
abundantly in the bays between deltas, so that one should find more
of volatile matters in coal laid down within the bays than in that
deposited on the delta slopes, along the axes of the currents. The
volatile should increase as one departs from those axes but it should
decrease with the depth at which the vegetable matter was deposited.
Floating islands are possible, since a flood might tear oft' bodily
part of a forest, which, carried down, might float for a while and
108
