19".] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 109
then sink to give the appearance of growth in si tit. If the storm
continue long enough, it would wash ofif the soil itself, which would
become an intercalation in the bed. If the flood return, attaining
a higher stage than before, another area of forest region would be
torn ofif to form a new bench of coal, possibly directly on the other.
When the flood subsides, the superficial currents would find only
inorganic materials on which to act, and the first deposit would be
mud to form the roof of the coal bed, after which would follow
some sandstone and conglomerate. Between floods the vegetation
is restored and the area is increased by encroachment on the lake.
During this long interval, the flora might be changed.
Lemiere is convinced that, by his hypothesis, he has succeeded
in explaining converging beds, parallel formations and floating islets.
All are allochthonous ; aerial plants have formed no autochthonous
beds, for no erect stem has been found in the coal ; in fact, the
plants could not thrive in a humus not nitrefied. Peat cannot become
coal, as its tannic acid checks the process of conversion. He applies
his doctrine with great ingenuity to several basins in France and
finds it confirmed in all.
Lemiere^'^" has published several papers in more recent years and
he presented a resume of his opinions in 19 lO. In that he expresses
surprise that in recent congresses the dominant opinion was that
coal beds are ancient wooded-bogs buried by successive subsidences,
because this opinion involves the supposition that the coal beds were
not formed in the same way as the sterile beds which enclose and,
at times, penetrate them. This opinion is based upon palaeobotan-
ical evidence, which is often untrustworthy, providing two-edged
weapons, available equally for defenders of each theory. It is nec-
essary to discover some criterion which will be conclusive. In an
earlier paper, he had demonstrated finally in geometric form that the
peat bog theory leads to arrangement of beds unknown in nature.
In this he proposes to restudy the conditions after the same method,
avoiding palseontological discoveries, and availing himself of dis-
coveries which have the character of certitude. He describes three
types of structure observed in areas of the coal formation.
^"^ L. Lemiere, "Resume des theories sur la formation de la houillc,"'
Bull. C. R. mensitels. Soc. Ind. Min., Sept., 1910. separate, 19 pp.
109
