110 STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. [Apdl 21.
The first type is that of the Hainaut coal basin in Belgium, a
small area, 15 kilometers wide and separated from the Campine basin
at the northwest by 60 kilometers of older rocks, while on the south-
east it is bounded by a fault. The fossils show that, at times, this
basin communicated with the sea. The deposits are thin at the
north, where the beds have remained unaiTected by subsecjuent dis-
turbance ; but they thicken to 3 kilometers toward the southerly
border of the basin, where the disturbance increases as the fault is
approached, the downthrow having caused close folding. The hinge
of movement was near the southeast bounding fault. If the peat
bogs were formed at the unvarying sea-level, the first of them should
have had, when the basin was filled, an inclination of 25 cm. per
meter and the last should be almost at sea-level, while the inter-
mediary beds should converge toward the shore line at the north-
west. The conditions being absent, it is evident from this mathe-
matical demonstration that the coal beds are not buried peat bogs.
The warning against the dangers of dependence on palaeontology
is repeated, and the necessity for the warning is proved by the dis-
covery of the Bernissart iguanodons in rocks other than those to
which the animals belonged, as well as by the possibility that some
day remains of fossil man may be discovered under a landslide from
a chalk cliff.
The second illustration is that of an area, increasing in extent
as it deepens. There, convergence of the beds toward the hinge
of movement would not be a criterion. The upper beds should be
of greater extent than the lower. This is to explain conditions
existing in the Appalachian basin, where one thick coal bed, the
Pittsburgh, has an area e(|uivalent to not less than 400 kilometers
scjuare. It is difficult to understand how materials from the anti-
clinal borders could reach the central parts of such a synclinal to
give parallel beds there. In the central parts of the basin are great
masses of red shale and beds of limestone and tlie coal beds are not
rigorously parallel. 1 le is inclined to think that the materials within
the central parts are due to precipitation ( from solution ) without
mechanical trans])orlation from the borders. ( )ne cannot assert
110
