■91"] STEVEXSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. Ill
positively that in this area peat bogs are excluded from consid-
eration.""^
The third illustration is from the basin of Vendee, which is an
isoclinal formation in an isoclinal valley, bounded on one side by a
fault. The reference to this area is brief. Lemiere states that the
phenomena of the faisceaux at the north and the dips in the basin
suggest, a priori, that here one has a case of peat bog formation.
But he plots the conditions in a diagram and states that, as shown
thus, they are evidently due to influence of the fault.
He concludes that the French coals as well as those of the
Franco-Belgian basin are not old peat bogs but are of alluvial origin
and that the same conclusion is probable for the coal beds of North
America. These conclusions do not proscribe the theory of peat
bogs ; on the contrary they appropriate those conditions and their
results. All that is insisted on is that, at present, we can find no
trace of successive deepenings of feeble amplitude and repeated for
each bed; but there are evidences of many subsidences, important or
at distant intervals, corresponding to the faisceaux of beds.
Lemiere, feeling himself no longer in danger of being paralyzed
by the question. Is coal formed /';/ situ or as alluvium?, proceeds to
show wherein his doctrine dififers from other forms of the transport
theory. As the distinction depends in great measure on his con-
ception of the mode in which vegetable matter was converted into
coal, the details have no place here.
This extended reference to Lemiere's publications is justified by
the fact that he has presented the characteristic of the transport
theory more fully than most of his predecessors and has attempted
to explain all the conditions as far as they are known to him.
Stainier.'"' whose numerous contributions will find consideration
in another connection, believes that formation of coal beds is essen-
tially a geological problem and he maintains that geologists have
been negligent in that they have left the discussion too long to the
palseobotanists. Fayol and Grand' Eury, by studying the matter
""The diagram, illustrating the structure in this second case, shows a
bounding fault on one side, such as limits the little basins in France.
"' X. Stainier. " De la formation des gisemcnts houillers," Bull. Soc.
Bclgc dc Gcol, XX.. igo6. p. V., pp. 112-114.
Ill
