I9II.] STEVENSON— FORMATION OF COAL BEDS. 113
that under exceedingly favorable conditions a peat bog has gained
one foot of thickness in five years but that in one case this increase
appeared to be only one foot in two hundred years. With the con-
ditions normal, the rate of increase seems to be not far from one
foot in ten years. Reasoning from the approximately ascertained
ratio of volume of peat and the resulting coal, he conceives that 300
years would be required for the formation of one foot of coal, thus
giving a period of about 4.000 years for accumulation of the Pitts-
burgh coal bed in western ^Maryland. The minimum period to be
assigned for formation of the 300 feet of coal in the Appalachian
basin is not far from 100.000 years.
In his later paper, seeking to ascertain whether or not a coal
bed may be utilized as a time measure, he indicates some complexities
of the problem, one of which is important. A coal bed, 18 inches
thick at one locality may be 15 feet at another, the latter thickness
requiring for accumulation 4,000 years more than the other. As the
rocks accompanying the thinner bed show no compensating differ-
ences, the 18 inches is all that was formed while the 15 feet was
accumulating elsewhere. There was either slow growth or a time-
break, that is a period of no deposition, before or after deposition
of the thin bed.
"' Smooth-partings " are evidences of time-breaks and represent
locally nonconformity between the under- and the overlying beds : a
" smooth-parting" at one place may be equivalent to 40 feet of shale
at another ; an inch or two of cannel may have similar equivalence.
Slow growth and temporary cessation of deposition are important
elements of the problem.
Dannenberg^'"* finds strong arguments in favor of autochthonous
formation in the vast extent of some coal areas, the presence of
the tenderest plant-parts in coal inclusions, the abundant occurrence
of roots directly under tlie coal, and the identity of coal-forming
plant species with those found in the enclosing shale rocks. Not all
localities show these features with equal clearness, for in some cases
there are variations along dip and strike like those in delta deposits,
'"^ A. Dannenberg, "Geologic der Steinkohlenlager, Berlin, 1909; Erster
Tell, 197 pp. The citations are from pp. 18-27.
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC, L. I98H, PRINTED APRIL 25, IQII.
113
