114 STEVENSON— FOR^IATION OF COAL BEDS. [April 21.
such as appear in the basins of central France, which Fayol has
proved to be allochthonous.
The deposits must have been made in shallow water ; Grand'
Eury has shown that the autochthonous flora of the Loire basin
could not have grown in water more than 10 to 15 meters deep.
There must have been a special combination of circumstances, since
*the deposits, in spite of the shallowness of the water, have in some
basins a thickness of some thousands of meters. This can be under-
stood if one accept a constant though variable subsidence through-
out the period of deposition. A certain instability of coast line in
paralic basins is proved by repeated inroads of the sea. If the sedi-
ments be laid down less rapidly than the surface sinks, marine con-
ditions prevail. Periods of rest, possibly of some elevation, would
be favorable to development of swamp vegetation, which, when sub-
sidence began again, would be buried under muddy and sandy depos-
its, until a new swampy area was produced, on which vegetation
began de novo. These movements can be followed with great clear-
ness in the Saarbruck and Loire basins.
Similar movements in the period of man can be recognized along
many coasts. Dannenberg regards the Tertiary and Quaternary
history of the Netherlands as especially instructive. This he gives
in detail, showing that there have been successive advances and
retreats of the shore line, so that the section of Tertiary and Quater-
nary beds consists of sandstones, conglomerates, shales, marine beds
and peat deposits, wholly similar to the succession observed in the
Coal Measures. The filled river valleys observed in the Coal ]\Ieas-
ures, have their counterparts in these newer deposits. And it must
not be forgotten that, in the Carboniferous time, great orogenic
movements occurred, so that there was abundant material for filling
the basins.
Stevenson,^^'' after studying the area, found himself unable to
accept Fa vol's conclusions respecting the mode in which the coal
beds were formed in the basin of Commentry. He agreed fully with
Favol as to the process by which the inorganic deposits were laid
^'"J. J. Stevenson, "The Coal Basin of Commentry in Central France,"
Ann. jY. V. Acad. Sci., XIX., 1910, pp. 161-204, 6 pi.; "The Coal Basin of
Decazeville, France," the same, XX., 191 1, pp. 243-294, 2 pi.
114
