120 BARUS— THE TRANSPIRATION OF AIR [April 21,
In the intermediate time, I did not return to the measurements
until quite recently (January, 191 1), when a second series of obser-
vations was made. As much as one fourth of the air contained in
1900 had now, however, escaped, in consequence of which the above
method had to be modified and all heads measured in terms of
mercury. Hence if H denotes the height of the barometer diminished
by the head equivalent to the vapor pressure of water, and if m/M
be neglected in comparison with i (about .06 per cent.) the equation
becomes
R
(2)
in which the first factor of the right-hand member is constant. If
the observations are made at the instant the swimmer sinks from
the free surface in A, Fig. 2, H must be increased by the mercury
equivalent of the height h' of v. The table contains all the data
reduced to mercury heads. A ^Mgp„,/R. Consequently 1,842 X
10"^ grams of the imprisoned air escaped in the intervening 10.92
years ; i. c, .265 of the original mass of air. In other words
168.7 X lO""*^ grams per year, .462 X lO"*' grams per day, or 5.35 X
lO"^- grams of dry air per second.
6. Conditions of Flour. — It is now necessary to analyze the above
experiment preparatory to the computation of constants. The mouth
of the swimmer had an area of but .0314 cm.- When sunk the
head of water above the surface z' was li" = 2^ cm. The column
of water between z' and d was h"' = S> cm. Hence the length of
column within which transpiration took place was 24 -j- 2 X 8 = 40
cm. The right section of this column is taken as .0314 cm.- through-
out. Naturally such an assumption, accepted in the absence of a
better one, is somewhat precarious ; but it may be admitted, inas-
much as the pressure of the gas sinks in the same proportion in
which the breadth of the channel enlarges. Thus there must be
at least an approximate compensation. In more definite experiments
a cylindrical swimmer whose internal area is the same as the annular
area without will obviate this difficulty (see Fig. 2).
The pressure difference urging the flow of air from f is
