15".] WITH REFLECTING GRATING. 129
n:ay be rotated around a horizontal axis to place the lines parallel
to the slit of the collimator. The duplex grating is mounted on a
spectrometer as is usual for reflection. Finally each half may be
raised and lowered and moved horizontally to and fro, parallel to
itself, so that the half gratings when coplanar may approximately
reproduce the original grating.
After each of the spectra are clear as to Fraunhofer lines, the
interferences here in question are produced by bringing these lines
(the D lines for instance) into perfect coincidence, horizontally and
vertically. Under these circumstances if the distance apart, r. is
suitably chosen, the interference fringes will appear throughout the
spectrum. These consist of an approximately equidistant series of
lines parallel to the slit, /. c, vertical lines, which are finer, ccct. par.,
as the breadth of the crack at 5 between the gratings is larger.
They may be increased from the extreme fineness as they enter the
range of visibility to a maximum coarseness (in the above experi-
ments) of about three to five minutes per fringe, after which they
vanish. They cannot, in practice, be passed through infinite size ;
neither can they be produced symmetrically on the two sides of the
adjustment for infinite size. They cannot in other words be changed
from the positive to the negative condition of appearance.
The occurrences are in fact as follows : if as in Fig 2, i > 6,
(parallel white rays coming from L and L', R and R' being reflected,
D and D' dififracted rays for the normal //), the grating g' must be
in advance or forward of ^. If now the airspace e is reduced micro-
metrically, g' retreating, the lines travel in a given direction ( from
left to right) through the spectrum, while at the same time they
grow continually larger until for a minimum value of c still positive,
they vanish as a whole. The period of indistinctness before evan-
escence is not marked.
On the other hand if 0' > /' as in Fig. 3, the grating g' must be to
the rear of g and the air space c is throughout negative. If this is
now decreased numerically the lines travel through the spectrum
in the opposite direction to the preceding case, while at the same
time they coarsen until they vanish as a whole as before. The
grating g' is still behind g when this occurs.
PROC. AMER. PHIL. SOC. L. 198 I, PRINTED .\PRIL 27, 191I.
