POPULAR MISCELLANY.
137
Leading Men of Japan. Bv Charles Lanman.
Boston: D. Loth rop & Co. 1883. Pp. 4-^1. $2.
Bolletin of the United States Fish Commis-
sion, vol. i, for isSl. Washiugtou: Government
Printini?-Oflice. Pp. 465.
A Manual of Chemical Analysis. Third edi-
tion, revised and enlarged. By Frederick Hoflf-
mann, A. M., Ph. D., and Frederick B. Power,
Ph. D. Philadelphia : Henry C. Lea's Son & Co.
1883. Pp. 624.
Compendium of the Tenth Censns. Part I,
pp. 923; Part, II, pp. 847. Washington: Gov-
ernment Printing-office. 1883.
Annual Report of the Chief Signal-Officer for
the Yesr 1880. Washington : Government Print-
ing-Offlce. 188I. Pp. 1,120, with 119 Maps and
Charts.
The New Cyclopaedia of Family Medicine:
Our Home Physician. By George M. Beard, A.
M., M. D. New York : E. B. Treat. 1881. Pp.
1,506. Illustrated. $7.50.
First Annual Report of the Bureau of Eth-
nology. 1879-80. By J. W. Powell, Director.
Washington : Government Printing-Offlce. 1881.
Pp. 603. Illustrated.
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
Fossil Man in America. — The question
of the contemporaneity of man with the
horse and other pliocene mammals was re-
cently brought up, in the Academy of Nat-
ural Sciences of Philadelphia, in the presen-
tation of some fossil remains of horses
by Professor Leidy. Professor Cope said
that he believed that the contemporaneity
would soon be satisfactorily established, and
brought forward the Calaveras skull, which
was said to have been taken from the gold-
bearing gravel of California, and two obser-
vations of his o^-n, made in 1879 in Oregon
and California, as further confirmatory of
the point. The " Carson foot - prints " of
Nevada could also be placed in evidence, for
they probably belonged to an ancestor of
existing man. Professor H. Carvill Lewis
insisted that caution should be exercised in
accepting as evidence of pliocene man any
facts as yet not verified by scientific ob-
servers. While the facts proving a post-
glacial man were indisputable, the existence
of pre-glacial man, either in our own coun-
try or in Europe, was not attested by any
scientific evidence. The discoveries in Cali-
fornia, made for the most part by miners in
search of gold, carried with them several se-
rious objections to the theory of great an-
tiquity. The implements were identical in
character with those of modern workman,
ship, and the Calaveras skull closely resem-
bled that of a modern Indian. The fact is
not generally mentioned that implements in
all respects similar to those of the aurifer-
ous gravel occur upon the surface of the
ground, and are beUeved to be the work of
well-known tribes. Neither the Calaveras
skull nor the implements have suffered the
amount of corrosion or weathering that a
great antiquity should have given them.
The adherence of compact gravel to the
Calaveras skull, which is regarded as a sign
of great antiquity, is no evidence at all of
it, for the same is seen in the case of mod-
ern coins and other objects of known date.
The very fact that the relics under consid-
eration all occur in a gold-bearing gravel
may indicate the method by which many of
them were buried. Gold-mining was car.
ried on, on quite an extensive scale, by the
aborigines in these same gravels. School-
craft describes an ancient shaft in Table
Mountain two hundred and ten feet deep, at
the bottom of which human bones and im-
plements were found. The argument from
analogy is so strong against the great an-
tiquity of the California relics, that evidence
of the most satisfactory kind must be re-
quired to support such a conclusion.
Dr. George M. Beard.— The late Dr.
George M. Beard, whose articles in the
Monthly will be remembered by many of
our readers, was a graduate of Yale College
began his medical studies in the same insti.
tution, and, after an experience of eighteen
months as acting assistant surgeon in the
United States Navy, received the degree of
M. D. at the expiration of a two years' course
in the College of Physicians and Surgeons
of this city. Beginning practice in New
York, he early turned his attention to the
study of nervous diseases, and almost im-
mediately began to write and publish on
medical subjects. Among his earlier works
"Our Home Physician," 1869, "Eating and
Drinking," and " Stimulants and Narcotics,"
1871, were designed for popular use, and
have, we understand, had a wide circulation.
In conjunction with Dr. A. D. Rockwell he
published, in 1875, "Medical and Surgical
Electricity." "Hay-Fever, or Summer Ca-
tarrh " appeared in 1876 ; " The Scientific
Bases of Delusions," 1877; "Nervous Ex-
haustion," 1880; "American Nervousness,
with its Causes and Consequences," 1881.
