138
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
These are among his more important contri-
butions to medical science, and, with a large
number of pamphlets and magazine articles
on allied subjects, make up a volume of lit-
erary work it is rarely accorded to one man
to accomplish. And when we reflect that
behind much of it there lies a large amount
of observation and experiment on which
many of his views are founded, it becomes
apparent that Dr. Beard's was an exception-
ally busy as well as useful life. Yet, en-
thusiastic and indefatigable as he was in his
chosen field, it must be confessed that the
quantity of his work was too often at the
expense of the quality. His conclusions
were not always as thoroughly matured and
as accurately verified as the interests of
science demand ; or, as a personal friend
has said of him, while he had wonderful in-
sight as an investigator, "his defects were
too rapid generalization and too positive and
comprehensive assertion of results. . . . His
fame would be more enduring if he had
written five books instead of fifty." Al-
though his work is Uable to these criticisms,
he undoubtedly did a valuable service in
calling attention to and throwing light upon
a class of ncrvo-mcntal affections which,
though very common and the cause of much
suffering, are not yet well understood. In
their further study the future investigator
will find much to aid him in the writings of
Dr. Heard, and, as the difficulties of the sub-
ject are more clearly realized, the work that
he has done will be better appreciated.
Treatment of Stammering. — Mr. J. E.
Suitterlin has for eight years conducted an
institute in this city for the cure of stutter-
ing and stammering, with most satisfactory
success. His system is philosophical and
simple, and is based on the plainest common-
sense principles. Excluding reliance on med-
ical aids, it comprises chiefly careful drill
of the vocal organs, and such mental dis-
cipline as will contribute to the object. In
the first stage of treatment, the subject is
not permitted to talk, except to practice his
exercises, and to make such movements in
speech as can be guided and observed by
the teacher. During this time he is taught
to consider himself, not a patient, but a
student of speech. In the second stage,
which is begun when enough has been done
in the first, the pupil is encouraged to talk,
for practice, at every opportunity, with a
" legato " movement (as in music) and a
strong accent. In the third stage he is al-
lowed to talk more naturally, but in a studied
manner ; and in the fourth stage he is per-
mitted to employ his normal way of speak-
ing, but is by this time relieved from the
impediment under which he formerly suf-
fered. The psychic part of the treatment,
which aims to divert the pupil's mind from
himself and his troubles, is the most diffi-
cult and, at the same time, the most essen-
tial part. The time required for success
depends very largely and, in fact, chiefly on
the mental constitution of the subject.
From this brief description of an effec-
tive method of treatment, the parent may
gather the useful hint that, to remedy any
incipient tendency in his child to stammer,
he should exercise a mild and kind but
firm ruling, suppress all irritability of tem-
per, observe for the child all the laws of
health, and be careful as to his own manner
of talking and the patterns he may set for
the child. By attention to such matters,
even the most unskilled may correct the
evil before the child begins to be conscious
that he is a stammerer ; and, by a general
regard to such principles as are here laid
down, the affliction might be wholly re-
moved or its frequency greatly reduced in
the course of a generation or two. The
statistics collected and preserved by Mr.
Suitterlin show that the stammering habit
is contracted, with only very rare excep-
tions, between infancy and ten years of age.
The First Dagnerrcan Portrait. — Pro-
fessor Charles E. West, who was a personal
witness of the event, has contributed to the
" New York Times " an interesting account
of the introduction of the daguerreotype
process into the United States, and of the
taking of the first portrait by Professor John
W. Draper, and not by Mr. A. S. Wolcott,
for whom the honor has been claimed. The
secret of the process having been bought
and published by the French Government, a
pamphlet describing it was brought to New
York by a Mr. Seger. Professor Morse, to
whom the pamphlet was given, employed
Mr. George W. Prosch to make an instru-
ment after the description in it. The first
