142
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
versal, but it ■was found expedient in some
places to postpone the treat till the corpse
had been safely taken care of. At Bridgton,
a glass of wine was given to each mourner,
and a biscuit, on the top of which was placed
a piece of dark-colored orange-peel. It is
just possible that the presence of this orna-
ment "was the perpetuation of a s3Tnbol
used at old heathen rites. Quite within liv-
ing memory it was also customary to put a
black mark on some of the oat-cakes served
along with whisky in public-houses in Ruth-
erglen, near Glasgow, Few, if any, of those
who observed this custom in baking the
cakes latterly could have the least notion
of what their action implied ; but its origin
may be traced to the old heathen practice
at the feasts of Baal, of giving bread with
a black mark upon it to those unhappy per-
sons who were selected as victims to be sac-
rificed." Xo religious service was held at
the grave ; only the hats of the attendants
were taken off sometimes for a moment
when the coffin was lowered. The omission
" had its origin, no doubt, in the Scotch hor-
ror of doing anything that might give a
color to the charge of following the Roman
Catholic fashion of praying for the dead."
Sometimes a chapter in the Bible was read
and a short prayer pronounced in the house
before the procession set out for the church-
yard ; but care was generally taken in these
preliminaries to disconnect them from the
peculiar circumstances of the occasion.
Thus, at one funeral, refreshments were
served, and the offering of the prayers was
so arranged as to give them the appearance
of being a grace before and a grace after
meat. The starting of the funeral pro-
cession was colloquially called " lifting," in
allusion to the "lifting" of the coffin or the
taking of it up to carry it from the trestles
on which it rested, with " spokes " or bear-
ing-poles. Efforts to do away with funeral
treats, which were justly prompted by the
scandals to which the drinking gave rise,
were strongly and bitterly opposed. One
man, who had become an abstainer, gave
great offense by providing milk instead of
liquor. His neighbors ascribed his conduct
to meanness, and had nothing but scorn for
his plea of principle. " Principle had noth-
ing, and could have nothing, to do with it,"
they asserted. " Tlie minister had no scru-
ple in taking off his dram, and was he going
to set himself up as better than the min-
ister ? "
Barmese Animal Life. — The "British
Burmah Gazetteer " gives some notes of
rare interest on the zoology of the country
to which it relates. The mammalia include
the Malasian tapir, four species of rhinoce-
ros, a fresh-water dolphin, and bats. Most
of the bats hibernate, as their congeners
do in Europe, and one is remarked for the
reservoir of fat which it accumulates in its
tail, to serve it in winter. The list of birds
runs up to seven hundred and seventy-three
species, or a hundred more than there are
in all Europe. A curious fact is that sev-
eral species are found in the Island of Java,
eight hundred miles south, while they are
wholly wanting in the neighboring penin-
sula of Malacca. Species that are found in
India only at the foot of the Himalayas,
at a considerable elevation, occur here at
the level of the sea. Species of birds iden-
tical with those of Europe, or similar to
them, are not rare. The variety of the
fauna is explained by the physical configu-
ration of the region, where a walk of a few
hours will carry one from the green sod of
meadows intersected by rice-fields to the
inaccessible precipices of the granitic mount-
ains, from the sea-shore jungles of bamboo
and the rich, tropical vegetation of the
coasts to immense virgin forests and the
stiff and dark pines of the mountain-sides.
The list of reptiles is discouraging to the
settler, for it furnishes four crocodiles and
seventy serpents, one of which is a python
thirty feet long, and the bite of fifteen is
poisonous. The list of fishes is the most
interesting of all. It includes the Anabas
scandens, which they say comes out of the
water and goes up into the trees for insects ;
species that have a reservoir of air above
the gills, and will die of asphyxia if they
are kept under water and prevented from
drawing air directly from the atmosphere ;
a siluroid that has an accessory respiratory
apparatus attached to the branchiae; and
the fish-scorpion, which has a long air-ves-
sel passing across the muscles of the back,
and communicating interiorly with the gills :
this explains how these fish can live in
mud. These respiratory organs seem close-
