POPULAR MISCELLANY.
H3
ly adapted to the estivation which is the
forced consequence of the pluvial regirae of
the country. After a heavy shower nu-
merous fish will make their appearance in
places that were absolutely dry a few hours
before. Living fishes of certain species
may be found buried two feet below the
dry surface of the soil. The Ophiocephalidoe^
like our eels, pass from one pond to another
by gliding through the moist grass, and the
AmpJiipnous cuchia loves to rest on the
ground hidden in high grass ; and one may
see it leap into the water when he ap-
proaches it. The Ophiocephalus striatus
builds a nest with its tail among the aquat-
ic plants on the banks of the rivers, and
finishes it off with blades of grass, which it
cuts with its mouth. The eggs are laid in
the nest, and the male takes care of them,
or, if he dies or is captured, the female takes
his place. Both watch the fry with as much
care as a hen takes of her chickens, but will
drive them away when they have become
large enough, and will eat them up if they
do not go. The male of the Arius burma-
nicus hatches out its little ones in its mouth ;
fifteen or twenty eggs in different stages of
development, ana even recently hatched
young ones, may be found in the buccal
cavity and on the branchiffi; and, during
the whole period of this incubation, the fish
takes no food. The varieties of the fauna
of this country support the hypothesis that
it was primitively an archipelago, separated
by arms of the sea. The forms are often
totally different on mountains, having pre-
cisely the same geological formation, only
fifteen or twenty miles apart.
A Prematarc Barial. — il. G. Eric Mac-
kay presented, in " The Popular Science
Monthly " for January, 1880, a number of
apparently authentic instances of cases in
which premature burial had occurred. In
a subsequent number of the " Monthly "
(August, 1880), Dr. William Lee depreciated
the danger, and undertook to show that
premature burials were extremely rare. An
instance very similar to some of those re-
corded by Mr. Mackay, and showing that
the danger is an actual one, is related in the
" Viedomosti " of Samara, Russia. A clerk
while drunk was seized with an epileptic fit,
and apparently died. As the next two days
would be holidays, when burials would no*
be permitted, it was decided to lay him in
the ground that very night. Drops of sweat
were seen on his face during the funeral
services, but no attention was paid to the
matter because it was thought the drops
might have come from snow that fell on
his face on the way to the church. But lit-
tle earth was thrown on the coffin, on ac-
count of the lateness of the hour. When the
grave-digger went the next morning to fill
up the grave, he heard a noise, as of groan-
ing and struggling in it. Instead of releasing
the man, the sexton went to the priest to
ask permission to do so. The priest sent
him to the police ; the police sent him and
the man's wife, who had joined him, to the
chief ; the chief sent them to the archiman-
drite, and he to the procurator. At last a per-
mit was obtained, after five hours, but then
the man was dead, having left in the coffin
evidences of a hard struggle. He had turned
around, bitten his fingers, torn his flesh, and
rent his clothing. It is hard, in reading
this story, to decide whether most to admire
the stupidity of the grave-digger and the
victim's wife, or the elaborate complication
of Russian red-tape.
ImproTcments in Insuraace Manage-
ment.— The " Pall Mall Gazette " notices
signs of improvement and invigoration in the
management of the English life-assurance
companies during the past year, particularly
in the matters of the settlement of claims im-
mediately after death, liberal extensions of
the limits of residence, facilities for the re-
newal of lapsed policies, the introduction of
the paid-up policy system, and the simpli-
fication of the initiatory stages in paid-
up policies. Tendencies are observed, too,
toward the reduction of rates to a simple
living basis, and the gradual working out of
the "bonus" system. The companies are
still, however, obliged to meet the sharp
competition of American enterprises, which
are able to offer inducements enhanced by
the higher interest on their investments ;
but they ought to be able to neutralize these
advantages, it is suggested, by those which
they enjoy from the prestige of their long
career and honorable position, and from
the less cost at which their business is con-
ducted.
