144
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
NOTES.
The first attempt to manufacture incan-
descent electric lamps in vacuo has been
ascribed to M. de Chagny, whose effort was
made about twenty years ago. Mr. W. Mat-
tieu Williams claims the credit of the inven-
tion and its successful practical application
for a young American, Mr. Starr, whose pat-
ent was taken out in 1845. Mr. Williams
had a share in the venture, assisted in mak-
ing the apparatus and some of the experi-
ments, came into possession of the invention
by assignment on the death of Mr. Starr,
and exhibited the light in the original lamp,
at Birmingham, several times, more than
twenty years ago. An account of the lamp
is given in the " Journal of Science " of
November 5, 1879, and is reprinted in Mr.
Williams's " Science in Short Chapters."
The Smithsonian Institution has received
from Dr. Stejneger, from Behring Island,
eleven fairly perfect crania of the extinct
Rhytina Stelleri, a mammal allied to the
dugong and manatee, with sets of neai'ly all
the other bones of the skeleton.
The additions to the herbarium of the
Academy of Natural Sciences, of Philadel-
phia, during the past year, exceed those of
any year since the organization of the Bo-
tanical Section. They are estimated at 3,346
species, of which more than one third were
new to the collection, and include more than
one hundred genera not before represented
in it.
The composition of elephant's milk, ac-
cording to the analysis of Dr. QuesncTille,
in the " Moniteur Scientifique," is similar to
that of cream, but its consistency is differ-
ent. Its odor and taste are very agreeable,
and the taste is superior to that of most
other kinds of milk. It is about equal to
cow's milk in quality. In view of these
facts, "La Nature," of Paris, does not de-
spair of seeing the day when an adven-
turous speculator shall bring a troop of
elephants to be driven through the streets
of the city as goats are now driven, to fur-
nish each customer with his cup of milk
direct from the teat.
M. de Merejkowski has been investigat-
ing the color-sense of the Crustacea, taking
for his experiments the larvae of cirripeds
and a cepepod. In the dark these animals
scatter everywhere in the vessel containing
them ; if a ray of light is admitted, they col-
lect around it, whatever its color ; if two
rays, one white and the other colored, are
let in, the majority congregate around the
white ray, but a few go to a colored one ; if
two colored rays are admitted, the major-
ity seek the brightest, but, if both rays are
of equal intensity, no difference in choice is
perceived.
An International Electric Exhibition will
be held at Vienna, in the Rotunda and
buildings of the Universal Exhibition of
1873, from the 1st of August to the 31st
of October next. Goods will be received
from the 1st of June, and all exhibits must
be unpacked and set up by the 15th of July.
The Society of Telegraph Engineers and
Electricians, which numbers Sir William
Thomson, and Messrs. Siemens, Preece, and
other distinguished experts among its mem-
bers, will manage the English departments
of the exhibition. The proceeds of the en-
terprise are to be devoted either to such sci-
entific institutions as may further carry out
its aims, or to the pursuit of important in-
ventions in the field of electrical science.
The French Societe (['Encouragement has
conferred the grand medal of the Economic
Arts on M. Gaston Plante, for his experi-
ments and discoveries with storage-batteries.
The Royal Swedish Geographical Society
has decided to appoint a committee, consist-
ing of Professors Nordenskjold and Gylden,
and Consul Elfning, to consider the proposal
for an international meridian and a com-
mon time.
The experiments in acclimating the tea-
plant in Southern France are making encour-
aging progress. Grafts upon camellias have
withstood temperatures below the freezing-
point in the open air. A hundred and twen-
ty trees near Messina, Sicily, planted three
years ago, are vigorous and in full leaf and
flower. The question now to be decided is,
whether the flavor is maintained undamaged.
The Veterinary and Agricultural Society,
at Chartres, France, has just published the
results of a year's experiments in vaccination
for anthrax according to M. Pasteur's sys-
tem. The number of sheep vaccinated was
79,392, in flocks among which the total aver-
age loss per year for ten years had been
7,237, or 901 per cent. The deaths from
anthrax after vaccination were only 518,
or 0*65 per cent. The disease did not rage,
however, as fatally among the unvaccinated
flocks as usual, and the rate of loss among
them was reduced to 3 per cent. The total
loss, if there had been no vaccination, might
not have been more than 2,382. Vaccina-
tion reduced this by nearly four fifths. In
mixed flocks, the losses among vaccinated
animals were 0"4 percent ; among unvacci-
nated ones, 3"9 per cent.
M. ViGNiER believes that animals are in-
debted for the powers of direction which
they sometimes manifest so strikingly to the
possession of a magnetic sense relating to
the forces that govern both the direction
and the inclination of the needle, the seat of
which he locates in the semicircular canals
of the internal ear.
