THE
POPULAR SOIEXCE
MONTHLY.
JUNE, 1883.
MEDICAL QUACKS AjSTD QUACKERIES.
By FEANCIS J. SHEPHEED, M. D.
JOHNSON defines a quack as " a boastful pretender to an art he
does not understand," and perhaps the term is more often applied
to boastful pretenders of the art of medicine than of any other.* Prob-
ably, ever since man acquired the faculty of articulate language, quacks
and quackeries have flourished. In the ruder ages, man attributed all
disease to the influence of evil spirits, and sought by various means to
ward off or lessen their injurious and malevolent actions. Now, as an
eminent physiologist has lately said, the controlling of unknown pow-
ers has always been a matter of some difficulty, and one which ordinary
mortals with average ability could not successfully attemj^t ; hence
arose a class of specialists — men who, by their greater knowledge and
cleverness, made others believe that they were able to cope with the
unseen. These were the priests, and, without doubt, the first quacks.
They supplied charms and potions, and made use of incantations, not
only to cure, but to prevent disease. These services obtained for them
great power and influence and increased wealth. The ancient Egyp-
tians attributed all diseases to the anger of the gods. They worshiped
Serapis as a medical divinity, and the cure of disease could only be ac-
complished through the intercession of this deity's priests. Thus the
priests had the monopoly of medical practice, and their medical knowl-
edge was jealously concealed from the vulgar ; it was only divulged
to those who with extravagant ceremonies, wonderful mummeries, and
terrible vows of secrecy, were initiated into the Egyptian mysteries.
It was thus that Pythagoras is supposed to have obtained the founda-
tion of his medical knowledge and philosophy. Among the Israelites
* " ' Quack ' is said to be an abbreviated form of ' quacksalver,' which is derived from
the Dutch Kwabzalvei- — fi-om Kicah, a iven, and Zahcr, an ointment.'''' — Notes and Queries.
VOL. XXIII. — 10
