146 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the priests had charge of the health of the people, and in time of plague
and pestilence relied wholly on religious methods of cure. According
to the accounts that have come down to us, these methods were most
successful. In highly civilized Greece, priests, the direct descendants
of ^sculapius, cured disease by mysterious ceremonies, music, offer-
ings, fastings, and such like. In Rome, when a plague broke out, the
priests endeavored to combat it by feasting the gods, or driving nails
into the right wall of the Temple of Jupiter. The early Christian
Church was strongly opposed to the progress of medicine. It believed
that the power of curing disease had been transmitted from Christ and
his apostles to their bishops and elders. They discarded altogether the
use of medicinal agents, and healed the sick by prayer, the laying on of
hands, and the anointing with oil. This form of treatment, being of
the miraculous order, needed no knowledge of the nature of disease, or
of the structure of the human frame. Heathen priests and physicians
were regarded as sorcerers and dealers in witchcraft, and so were burned
or otherwise put out of the way. For some centuries the monks mo-
nopolized all the medical practice and quackery. They made a good
living, selling for large sums of money remnants of ancient martyrs,
waters of holy wells, portions of the true cross, etc., as a protection
against sickness, witchcraft, evil spirits, and other ills that flesh was
heir to in those dark ages. They prayed to St. Anthony for inflam-
mation, St. Valentine for epilepsy, St. Clara for sore eyes, St. Appo-
lonia for toothache, St. Vitus for madness and poison, and so on.* It
was not till after the breaking up of the powers of the priesthood by
the Reformation, and the introduction of printing, that medicine began
to escape from the grasjD of quackery and made rapid strides toward
the truth, perfecting knowledge of disease by accurate observation
and the study of the human frame and its workings in health. That
the emancipation of medicine from superstition did not immediately
take place is evidenced by the wonderful hold the belief in the cure of
scrofula by the royal touch had on the people, both medical and lay,
for many years after the Reformation, nay, almost down to our own
time. This most remarkable form of quackery, and one, according to
* The Medical Rose offers a peculiar and very approved remedy for epilepsy. Advis-
ing the patient to stand upright, saying the Lord's prayer with the mouth wide open to
prevent the first attack, and informing us that a lunatic, an epileptic, and a demoniac
were the same, he gives the following sacrophysical directions : " When the patient and
his parents have fasted three days, let them conduct him to a church. If he be of a
proper age and in his right senses, let him confess. Then let him hear mass on Friday,
during the fast of quaiuor tanporum, and also on Saturday. On Sunday let a good and
religious priest read over his head in church the gospel which is read in September in the
time of vintage, after the feast of the Holy Cross. After this, let the same priest write
the same gospel devoutly, and let the patient wear it about his neck, and he shall be cured.
The gospel is, ' This kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting.' " — (" Rosa Anglica,"
p. '78, edition 1491 ; ib., p. 415, edition 1595— (iuoted in Willcock's "Laws of the Medi-
cal Profession," p. 25, edition 1830.)
