152 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
So what signifies learning, or going to school,
When woman can do without reason or rule ? "
England in the eighteenth century has been truly named the " Para-
dise of Quacks." Our ancestors were assuredly a nostrum-loving lot,
from the King to the peasant. Truly they must have thought with the
prophet, " The Lord hath created medicines out of the earth ; and he
that is wise will not abhor them" (Ecclesiasticus xxxviii, 4). Perhaps
the most remarkable of unblushing quacks who flourished toward the
end of the eighteenth century was Dr. Graham, a graduate of Edin-
burgh, and a fellow-student of Sir James Mackintosh. He introduced
Mesmerism into England, and was nearly as successful as his master.
In 1780 he went to London and occupied a magnificent mansion, which
he designated the " Temple of Health and Hymen." It was gorgeously
furnished, and a fortune was spent on the decorations. The spacious
rooms were adorned with marble statues, stands of armor, plates of
burnished steel, and superbly lighted with wax-candles ; sweet strains
of distant music were continually floating through the air, and delicious
perfumes were always burning in swinging censers ; at the door were
stationed two gigantic porters, clad in showy liveries covered with
gold lace. In this " Enchanting Elysian Palace " Dr. Graham deliv-
ered his lectures on health and procreation at two guineas a head, and
he did not want for hearers. In his seances he was assisted by a beau-
tiful woman, whom he called Vestina, the rosy goddess of health — she
who afterward became Lady Hamilton, the favorite of Nelson. In
the daytime he was assisted in his electrical experiments by Dr. Mit-
ford, the father of the celebrated authoress. In this temple was a
celestial bed standing on glass legs and ornamented with the richest
hangings ; he pretended that childless married pairs who slept in this
bed would be certain to have heirs. The price was £100 a night, and
many persons of high rank eagerly accepted the terms. He then
advertised an elixir of life, which, it is said, he sold to more than one
noble simpleton for £1,000. One mode of treatment he recommended
for prolonging life was the frequent use of mud-baths. Soon, from
his religious extravagances, Graham became unpopular, and, retiring
from public life, he died poor in the neighborhood of Glasgow.
A species of quackery called " Perkinism," which made a stir in the
world in the beginning of the present century, I must now shortly
describe, for, among the delusions which have succeeded in imposing
on men of education and position, it is pre-eminent. It orignated in
America, and to Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes I am indebted for most
of my information on the subject. Dr. Elisha Perkins was born in
Connecticut, in 1T40 ; he practiced with success for many years, but,
being inspired by the recent discoveries of Galvani, he conceived the
idea that metallic substances applied in a certain manner might remove
disease. In 1796 he gave to the world his metallic "Tractors." These
consisted " of two pieces of metal, one iron and one brass, about three
