154 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
AVitliin the last few years, a form of Perkinism, or rather " metal-
lic medicine," has appeared in Paris, clothed in the garb of science,
and under the protecting influence of the great M. Charcot. Gold,
silver, and other metals, in the form of coins, are applied to relieve
the manifestations of the graver forms of hysteria. It has become
quite the ' mode ' to visit the Hopital de la Salpetriere, and witness
the sensational cures performed publicly on the victims of hystero-
epilepsy. This notoriety is both pleasing to the patients and the
public. If a nervous disease is treated by unusual methods, it be-
comes common ; hysterical subjects having always a morbid desire
to make themselves remarkable, and so be the center of attraction, it
pleases their vanity and self-love. The consequence of the introduc-
tion of metallo-therapy into Parisian hospitals as a mode of treat-
ment is, that in Paris and its neighborhood an enormous number of
these rarer forms of hysteria and hystero-epilepsy have been, so to
speak, created, and the wards of some of the hospitals there are
crowded with female patients, eager to be treated in a sensational and
novel manner. They certainly derive benefit from the treatment, be-
cause, as a writer in the " Lancet " has said : " The symptoms for
which metals are applied can net be ascertained without calling the
patient's attention to their existence ; the strange and unusual remedy
of application of a string of coins can not be adopted without exciting
expectation of a local result — an expectation which it has been often
demonstrated is sufficient to determine the disappearance of local symp-
toms in this remarkable disease."
My paper would be very incomplete should I fail to mention the
most successful quack this century has produced, John St. John Long.
He was the son of an Irish basket-maker, and was born near Done-
raile. In his boyhood he assisted his father, but, soon tiring of rush-
weaving, being a clever, pushing youth, he attached himself to a
Dublin portrait-painter, from whom he obtained some knowledge of
painting. When next we hear of him he is starring the provinces as an
historical and portrait painter, and an instructor in the art of painting
in oils. It was at this time that he adopted the name St. John. With
the Limerick gentry he was a great favorite, because of his entertain-
ing manners, and his ability to ride straight across country. Becom-
ing disgusted with provincial life, and feeling that his talents could
be more profitably employed in a larger sphere, he went to London.
Here, by his pleasant address and persuasive tongue, he managed to
get introductions into several respectable houses, and was elected a
member of the Royal Society of Literature and of the Royal Asiatic
Society. But he could not live on these honors, and was glad to color
anatomical drawings for the lecturers and students at the various-
schools of anatomy. In this way he learned something about the
human frame, and before many months had passed he proclaimed to
the world the discovery of a wonderful liniment, which, when applied
