156 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
George Eliot, in " Middlemarch," alludes to St. John Long and his
quackeries.
Homoeopathy is another form of quackery to Avhich I must shortly
allude. It originated in 1796, with Hahnemann, a German physician.
Hahnemann laid down, as necessary to his system, three great founda-
tion truths :
1. Similia slmilibus curantur. This means that diseases are to
be cured by the administration of substances which, in healthy indi-
viduals, produce the same symptoms or group of symptoms as the dis-
ease itself manifests. This idea was not original with Hahnemann.
Hippocrates distinctly enunciates it, and since then it has been held
by many physicians and others, including Paracelsus, who was the
inspirer of Hahnemann.
2. That it is necessary to give remedies in infinitesimal doses. Sub-
stances which are given by the regular school in doses of four to five
grains, homceopaths should give in quantities of two decillionths of a
grain and less. Hahnemann says, in his " Organon": "But, if the pa-
tient is very sensitive, it will be sufiicient to let him smell once of a
vial containing a globule of sugar the size of a mustard-seed ; after the
patient has smelled it, the vial is to be recorked, and will thus serve for
years without its medical virtues being perceptibly impaired." This
second "great truth" was, as has been lately pointed out by Dr.
Holmes, adopted from Van Helmont, a physician who flourished in
the early part of the seventeenth century. He denied the existence of
the four elements, and held up to ridicule the practice of letting blood
for the cure of disease.
Van Helmont, in his "Ortus Medicinte," describes a method of
treatment made use of by one Butler, an Irishman, who was formerly
physician to James I, and at that time was confined in prison in
Belgium. According to Van Helmont, Butler performed wonderful
cures with a pebble he had in his possession. He dipped this pebble
quickly into a teaspoonf ul of olive-oil, poured this " magnetized oil "
into a large vessel of oil, and directed the patient to take one drop
occasionally. When one drop was put on the head of an old woman
suffering from hemicrania, the pain instantly disappeared. An abbess
was relieved of loss of power in her right arm by merely touching her
tongue to the pebble. No doubt reading this book first suggested in-
finitesimal doses to Hahnemann.
Hahnemann's " third dogma or truth " was, that seven eighths of
all chronic diseases are produced by psora, or itch. " This psora," says
Hahnemann, " is the sole, true, and fundamental cause that produces
all the other countless forms of disease, which go under the names of
hysteria, hypochondriasis, debility, insanity, melancholy, idiocy, epi-
lepsy, cancer, gout, paralysis," etc., etc. (I shall not complete the list).
He tells the reader in a foot-note that it took him twelve years to trace
out the source of all these diseases. This third dogma was original
