THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 5
scopic parasites, that multiply like the spores of a prolific mushroom.
The first development of these lung-devourers would seem to amount
to a sentence of speedy death ; yet their fecundity hardly exceeds
that of certain intestinal parasites, and the vis vitce has methods of
her own for dealing with such foes, and is ever ready to begin the
battle for life, on the sole condition that we do not complicate the
difiiculties of the undertaking by counteracting her efforts or by per-
petuating the influence of the original cause. Cease to feed the lungs
with azotic gases, and Dr. Koch's animalcula will starve and disappear
as surely as maw-worms will starve and disappear if we change a pork
and sourcrout diet for bread and apples.
About the comparative advantages of a dry and cold or moist and
tropical climate, opinions are divided, with a preponderance of argu-
ments in favor of the former ; but so much is certain, that in all lati-
tudes of the temperate zone the disease known as pulmonary consump-
tion is caused by the breathing of vitiated air and can be subdued by
out-door exercise. In certain cases cured would be an ambiguous term.
The respiration of vitiated (azotized and dust-impregnated) air results
in the corruption of the pulmonary tissues, and finally in a process of
disintegration that fills the structure of the lungs with ulcerous cavi-
ties. These cavities often cicatrize, but it is not probable that they
can be entirely healed, i. e., that the wasted tissues can be reproduced.
Yet in all but its last stages the progress of the disease can be arrested
by out-door life alone. The voice of instinct adds its testimony to the
teaching of science. In the language of our senses, every feeling of
discomfort suggests its own remedy. If the proximity of a glowing
stove begins to roast your shins, the alarmed nerves cry out — not for
patent ointments, not for anti-caustic liniments and " pain-killers," but
for a lower temperature. Nothing else will permanently appease
them. Millions of prisoners, school-children, and factory-slaves, pine
for lung-food as a starving man yearns for bread ; and that hunger
can not be stilled with cough-pills, but only with fresh air.
There are adjuvant remedies which will be noticed hereafter, but
their co-operation is not indispensable. Without a sufficient supply of
wholesome food, without warm clothes, without domestic comforts,
under the disadvantage even of excessive hardships and protracted
fasts, a three months' mountain-excursion, with or without tents, wiU
cure all the symptoms of the disease with the exception of an acceler-
ated pulse and a panting respiration during active exercise. Canadian
trappers who leave their supply-camp with a bad cough, get rid of it
on the fifth or sixth day "out." They may get foot-sore, and, if game
is scarce, hipped and homesick, but the feeling of haleness about the
chest continues. Night-frosts do not affect it. Fatigues rather im-
prove it. They may wake up with a feeling of frost-cramp from their
chilblained toes to their shivering knees, but the lungs are at ease :
no cough, no asthmatic distress, no stitch-like pains, no night-fever.
