MEDICAL QUACKS AND QUACKERIES. 161
certain disease, we have, first, to be sure that the disease exists ;
secondly, that it was cured ; and, thirdly, that the remedy cured the
disease.
It is very common for quacks to call carbuncles cancers, ordinary
sore-throats diphtheria, and so on, and so boast of their wonderful cures,
when Nature alone deserves the praise. In no country in the world
are quacks more abundant than in the United States. Every city
teems with faith-cure men, rubbers and strokers, clairvoyants, homoeo-
paths, eclectics, bone-setters, cancer-doctors, etc., etc. The advertising
columns of the daily and weekly press, in the smaller towns especially,
are principally filled with quack advertisements, some of them of the
most disgusting and disgraceful nature, and these too in perfectly
respectable sheets, which find their way without question into family
circles. Religious newspapers are no exceptions to the rule ; in them
the advertisements have a religious gloss to attract the holy. Per-
haps texts are quoted, or the advertiser poses as a philanthropist or
clergyman, and treats the poor gratis ; at the same time he hints that
the only reason he is so generous is that he enjoys the luxury of doing
good to suffering humanity. Quacks have many ways of advei'tising.
One asserts, as a scientific fact, that all diseases originate in disorders
of the nervous system, and urges every one, before it is too late, to come
and drink of his nervine tonic. Another states that physicians now
admit that all diseases are due to impure blood, and vaunts the efficacy
of his magnetic blood-purifier. Then comes a vile woodcut of the in-
ventor, with a list of the testimonials of the most laudatory character,
showing how this more than human doctor had snatched the writer
from the jaws of death, and perhaps something worse ; or perhaps we
have a " Golden Medical Discovery," and are told that the receipt for
this medicine was found in the luggage of a deceased Zulu chief, or
that it had been a secret of the medicine-men among the Yucatan In-
dians for hundreds of years, and was providentially discovered by the
advertiser. To suit patients who dislike internal remedies, artful and
designing quacks have furnished liver, stomach, and kidney pads, and
magnetic belts, giving illustrations at the same time to show how these
should be applied. I have been told by a wholesale druggist that thou-
sands are sold by the trade, monthly, to the credulous who are con-
tinually seeking for new medical divinities. Their action is much the
same as Perkins's Tractors. That these advertisers are successful in
selling their wares is shown by the enormous prices they pay for adver-
tising, and the colossal fortunes which men like Holloway, Helmbold,
Ayer, and others have made. If bread-pills were to be advertised,
until they came into notice, as some wonderful vegetable compound
from the center of the " Dark Continent," and that they cured all dis-
eases, they could not fail to acquire celebrity, for, of the thousands
who would take them, a certain number would be sure to get well.
Another kind of quack is one who does not charge for advice, but
vol.. xxm. — 11
