RECENT MAGNETIC STORMS AND SUN-SPOTS. 163
though distant extinction of quackery is to be hoped for ; it forms
a fragment of that final triumph of reason and virtue which is the
secret consolation of every philanthropist."
KECENT MAGKETIC STORMS AND SUK-SPOTS.
By GAEEETT P. SEEVISS.
'AT'O one who beheld the great auroral displays of last year can
-i-N ever forget the impression that they made. They were among
the most glorious celestial spectacles that have been witnessed in our
latitudes. The first one occurred on the night of Sunday, April 16th.
On the afternoon of that day I was watching with a telescope two
complicated sun-spots, or groups of spots, one of enormous size, which
had made their appearance on the solar disk several days before. My
attention had been particularly attracted to these spots, both on ac-
count of their great size and because I thought I could perceive
changes going on in them under my eyes. After watching them
through the afternoon I became satisfied, about an hour before sun-
down, that the smaller spot, which was considerably in advance of the
other, and was rapidly approaching the sun's meridian, had visibly
increased in size while I had been watching it, and that perceptible
changes had taken place in the complicated cluster of nuclei consti-
tuting the black center of the greater spot. It was evident that a
tremendous outburst of solar forces was occurring ; but, although I
knew of the well-established connection between such convulsions in
the sun and the condition of the earth's magnetic elements, I was not
prepared for the spectacle that followed.
The sun had been below the horizon only long enough for the
lengthening spring twilight to fade from view, when a pale-green arch
of light was seen spanning a broad arc of the northern horizon, while
above it the mysterious streamers and curtains of the aurora were
waving and coruscating in the sky. So quickly had the earth re-
sponded to the magnetic impulse from the storm on the sun. The
popular excitement caused by this aurora was remarkable, especially
among those who were not aware of the nature of the strange illumi-
nation in the sky. People gathered in knots at the street-corners, and
in the little parks of the city, and gazed wonderingly at the flaming
heavens. Many seemed to be seized with a mingled feeling of admira-
ticn and dread. I crossed the Fulton Ferry after midnight, when the
auroral streamers were yet shooting from horizon to zenith, and Arc-
turus was shining brilliantly in the center of a complete crown of
greenish-yellow light near the zenith. A throng gathered at the bow
of the boat to watch the display, which was much more brilliant when
