164 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
seen from the center of the stream, away from the ghire of the street-
lamps. A decently-dressed and not wnintelligent-looking man asked
me, with a troubled look, and pointing to the heavens :
" What U that ? "
" It's the aurora borealis," I replied.
lie seemed relieved to lind some one who could give it a name, and
who did not appear to be alarmed.
" I thought it might be the comet the papers are talking about,"
he said, '* and I didn't know what was going to happen."
I know that this man's vague fears were shared by others.
Everybody who had anything to do with telegraphs will remem-
ber the effects of the aurora. The wires played strange freaks. In
some places they were disconnected from the batteries and worked by
means of the current furnished by the magnetic storm ; in other
places they refused to work at all. The Atlantic cable was crippled,
and at intervals, for several days thereafter, there was considerable
delay of all telegraphic business. Subsequently it was learned that
the auroral storm had raged, simultaneously, not only in the United
States and Canada, but in Great Britain, on the Continent of Europe,
and in Asia, extending clear across to the shores of China.
The next day, when I turned my telescope upon the sun, I was as-
tonished at the changes that had taken place. The smaller spot, which
I had seen increasing in magnitude on the previous day, had swollen
to between five and six times its former size, so that now it was about
half as large as the larger spot, and both were clearly visible to the
unassisted eye, shaded with a dark glass.
I find by reference to the exact measurements of these spots, made
at the Greenwich Observatory, that, whereas on the ICth the area of
the smaller spot was to that of the larger about as 1 to 13-6, on the
17th the relative magnitudes were about as 1 to 2*2.
For three or four days afterward there were magnetic disturbances
and occasional auroral displays at night, and during this time the ac-
tivity of the solar forces continued.
On the 19th there was another magnetic storm, and coincidently
with it the smaller spot suddenly increased in size again, until it w^as
nearly as large as the other, and on the 21st it actually surpassed its
neighbor in magnitude. After that both groups rapidly waned, the
one which had undergone the remarkable development I have de-
scribed fading much faster than the other one.
The next great display of sun-spots accompanied by auroras and
magnetic disturbances — if we except one or two of minor importance
and a somewhat remarkable one seen in Europe, which will be de-
scribed hereafter — occurred in November last, culminating on the
17th of that month in one of the greatest magnetic storms on record,
which crippled the telegraphs almost all over the civilized world. In
Europe fine auroras were observed on the 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th, IGth,
