RECENT MAGNETIC STORMS AND SUN-SPOTS. 165
ITth, and 19th, accompanied by more or less magnetic disturbance.
During that time a tremendous sun-spot, exceeding in size the largest
of the April spots, was advancing from the edge of the disk to the
center. In this country the principal auroral displays were on the
nights of the 17th and 19th, and the chief force of the magnetic
storm was felt on the 17th. On that day a storm of rain and snow
prevailed over most of the Union, and simultaneously with this
storm there raged a hurricane of magnetic forces. The effects were
similar to those witnessed during the April storm, but more intense.
As in April, some wires were worked without batteries, while others
could not be worked at all. Cable communication was interrupted.
Some startling phenomena occurred. Sparks of fire leaped from the
wires and instruments. In the AVest, switch-boards were burned and
keys melted. Operators received
severe shocks. Practical tele-
graph men said they had never
known such a powerful disturb-
ance of the magnetic elements.
In the evening, when the sky
cleared at Chicago, a most mag-
nificent sight was beheld in the
heavens. The brilliancy of the
aurora far exceeded that of the
April display. A singular feature
of this aurora, which was also
noticed in Europe, was a splendid
luminous arch spanning the sky
from east to west and passing
nearly through the zenith. An-
other feature that added brill-
iancy to the spectacle was the
variety of color visible. The prevailing tints were rose-color and
green, but in some places streamers and patches of violet, yellow,
and orange light were seen. On the night of the 19th and morning
of the 20th, the sky having cleared here, a splendid aurora was seen
in New York. The magnetic disturbance also continued.
At the April meeting of the American Astronomical Society I ex-
hibited some magic-lantern views representing the principal changes
which took place in the great sun-spot during the magnetic storm of
November. These views, copied from drawings of the spot made at
the telescope, are reproduced in the accompanying cuts.
Fig. 1 represents the spot as it appeared on the 16th of November,
the day before the culminating magnetic disturbance took place. Low
magnifying powers, varying from sixty-five to a hundred and ten diam-
eters, were used while making the drawings, as it was not desired to
obtain pictures representing all the details. Consequently, only the
