i66
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
principal features of the spot are here represented, but the reader will
be able to get a better general idea of the changes that occurred from
such a picture than be could from one filled with minor details. The
central and lower portions of the figure are especially worthy of atten-
tion because of the indications they give of an eddying motion corre-
sponding with what should always be seen in a sun-spot according to
Faye's cyclonic theory, but which, in fact, is rarely visible. It was
also in these parts of the spot that the principal changes occurred, as
will be seen by reference to the figures. It is very interesting to note
that in Carrington's drawings of the remarkable sun-spot which ac-
companied the great magnetic storm of September, 1859 — a disturb-
ance whose effects strikingly resembled those produced by the storm
of last November — similar indications of a whirling motion can be
detected. Another exceedingly interesting fact is that in England,
on the IGth of November last, luminous points were seen rapidly
crossing the great spot. This forcibly recalls the similar phenomenon
of flying points of light, seen by Carrington and Hodgson, darting
across the spot of 1859, and which seemed to be a signal for the
outbreak of the magnetic storm that followed.
In Fig. 2, which represents
iit/ ,"->, the spot as it appeared on the
18tb, the day after the great
magnetic storm, evidences of
cyclonic motion are still, per-
haps, visible, though they are
rather suggested by a compari-
son of the appearance of the spot
with that shown in the previous
figure than by any clear indica-
tions in the figure itself uncon-
nected with the other one. The
roundish, nuclear mass near the
center suggests by its form a
whirlpool-like motion, but it is
difilcult on that hypothesis to
account for the long, straight
channel connecting it with the
oblong figure on the right. The
peculiar crooked figure seen in the lower part of the first picture has, it
will be perceived, apparently broken up into several fragments, but this
by itself is not inconsistent with the theory of an eddying motion.
Fig. 3 represents the appearance of the spot on November 19th,
auroras and magnetic disturbances having in the mean time continued.
Still further changes, it will be seen, have taken place, and the lower
portion of the spot shows a tendency to separate from the larger mass
above — a phenomenon that is of not unfrequent occurrence.
^MilM.\ '
Fig. 2.
