190 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
enic gymnasium take their turn at the horizontal bar as they would
swallow the drugs of a public dispensary : they know that it is a
lesser evil, they know that the road to Styx is the alternative, they in-
tend to come every day, but the intolerable tedium of the crank-work
exercise soon shakes that resolution. The motive for exertion is too
abstract ; it lacks the charm of progressiveness and the stimulus of a
proximate, tangible, and visible purpose. The sham competition of a
regiment of invalids under the command of a turn-master does not
much sweeten the bitter broth ; it is still crank-work, minus the club
of the jailer, and nine out of ten hygienic gymnasts will soon find or
make a pretext for discontinuing their visits. How many out of a
hundred pupils of a young ladies' seminary would dream of perform-
ing theu- "callisthenics" at home? They would as soon walk on all-
fours, or ride on a dry clothes-line. But arrange a May-day picnic
in the mountains, and they will beat a kid in climbing up the steepest
rocks, and swing on wild grape-vines for hours together.
It is likewise certain that fatigues can be far better borne if the
body is not encumbered with a surplus of calorific clothes. A pair of
linen trousers, a flannel hunting-shirt, and a loose necktie, make the
most hygienic summer dress. In the afternoon I'cmove the necktie
and roll up the shirt-sleeves : it can do no harm to imbibe fresh air by
all available means, and let the cutaneous lungs share in the luxury.
Nor is there any excuse for the wide-spread fallacy that it is dangerous,
even in the most sweltering nights, to remove the bed-blankets. Kick
them into the farthest corner if they become too warm, and sleep in
your shirt and drawers, or under a linen bed-sheet. Half-naked laz-
zaroni sleep the year round on the stone terrace of the Museo Borbo-
nico and outlive the asthmatic burghers in their sweat-box dormito-
ries. The body effects part of its breathing through the pores. Paint-
ing a man with yellow ochre and copal-varnish would kill him as surely
as hanging him by the neck. The confined air between the skin of the
body and a stratum of heavy blankets gets gradually surcharged with
carbonic acid — in warm weather even to the verge of the saturation-
point. The perspiration is thus forced back upon the body ; and the
lungs — perhaps already weakened by disease — have to do double work.
Hunters may find it hard to return in time for dinner, and need a
rallying-signal. One p. m. is a good time for a general shouting-
match. "VVake the echoes of the old mountains ; the spirits of the
departed Cherokees are tolerant — offer a premium for the loudest and
ghastliest war-whoop, and depend upon it that no pulmonary disaster
will spoil the triumph of the victor. Blood-vessels are not ruptured
in that way, but by sudden movements or abrupt ejaculations, when
terror or a similar emotion has driven the blood back upon the heart.
But, while the mind is at ease, and the lungs not strained by a des-
perate exertion of the pectoral muscles, I would defy a consumptive
to yell himself into a haemorrhage. A vocal effort does not injure
