THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 191
the respiratory organs ; on the contrary, it strengthens them. Sta-
tistics show that lecturing and preaching savants outlive their graphic
colleagues. In CarroUton, near New Orleans, I knew a hectic old
Mexican banana-vender who was so short of breath that he had often
to clutch the legs of his chair in his dire struggles for life-air, and
who told me that every few days or so he had to hitch up his mar-
ket-wagon, and bawl out his wares at the top of his voice, and for
hours together — ^?^ order to ease his lungs. Intead of speaking in a
whisper, consumptives should envy cattle-drivers, whose business gives
them a plausible pretext for yelling.
The prejudice against after-dinner speeches is founded upon a more
valid reason. Rest, mental and physical, is really a prime condition
of a thorough digestion. Invalids, especially, need a liberal siesta,
and a two hours' nap in the shade of a shelving rock can do no harm.
Long, sultry afternoons, though, are unknown in the highlands, and
before 3 p. m. the air will again be cool enough for any kind of out-
door sport. If the spring needs cleaning out, a wheelbarrow full of
flat rocks from the next creek will turn it into a deep, limpid hrunnen,
where a pail can be filled at a single dip. On sunny days butterfly-
hunters may bag their game on every mountain-meadow. Grasshop-
pers can be flushed by the dozen, and make the best bait for bi'ook-
trout. The rock-benches at the water's edge would invite to a pro-
longed session if other pastimes were not too tempting and numerous.
There are raspberries and muscadines in the brake ; farther up the
woods are strewed with chestnuts, and the collector soon learns to find
the little dells where they accumulate, like nuggets in the cavities of
a California gold-creek.
It is astonishing how work of that sort makes the hours vanish,
together with many evils which tedium is apt to aggravate : languor,
spleen, and dull headache. But more wonderful yet is its effect on the
disorders of the respiratory organs. Under anything like favorable
circumstances the lungs are, indeed, the most curable part of the
human body. With every inspiration the balm of pure air can be
brought into contact with the thousand times thousand air-cells of the
respiratory apparatus,* and, as we breathe about twenty times per
minute, the panacea can be applied twenty-seven thousand times in
twenty-four hours. Every day six hundred and eighty cubic feet of
gaseous food circulates through the lungs of a full-grown man, carry-
ing nourishment and restoratives to every fiber and enabling it to rid
itself of its morbid excretions. The rapidity of the remedial process
has more than once forced upon me the thought, " What persistent out-
rages against the health laws of Nature must it have required to make
the lungs the seat of a chronic disease ! "
* " It has been calculated by M. Rouchoux that as many as 11,190 air-cells are grouped
around each terminal bronchus, and that their total number amounts to not less than
600,000,000 " (Carpenter's " Physiology," p. 507).
