192 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The mountain-cure remedies assist Kature only in an indirect Avay,
but before tlie end of the first week the breathing powee of the asth-
matic lungs will revive as seeing and hearing awaken after a trance.
The respii'ation is still short and quick, but becomes less and less la-
borious ; the patient need not gasp for air ; his lungs have resumed
business, and attend to all the details of its functions till it becomes
entirely automatic.
Expectoration becomes less frequent ; the source of the affection
seems to retreat upward, the sjnita come from the upper air-j^assages,
and without the preliminaries of a worrying cough. Their quantity
gradually diminishes, and the relief is permanent, while cough-medi-
cines loosen the phlegm only by increasing its quantum, and discharg-
ing it with a tide of artificial mucus.
The NIGHT-SWEATS, too, soon disappear, for they can be cured on
the similia similihus principle of the homceopathists — by day-sweats.
Put on a flannel shirt, get an old axe and try your luck with a good-
sized bee-tree, or with the old log that obstructs the trail. Keep a
tin cup about you, and assist Nature by frequent trips to the spring.
No matter if you have to change your flannel shirts four times a day ;
depend upon it that you will not need them at night. The hectic
fever abates ; the cause has been removed. The sweats as well as the
fever are induced by a pulmonary inflammation that increases the
temperature of the body, but can be relieved by giving it a chance to
eliminate the morbid matter. The four or five quarts of water that
were excreted in the process of perspiration have circulated through
every pore of the respiratory organs and depurated them more effect-
ively in a single day than the repeated doses of a cough-exciting
nostrum could do in a week. After the return from the mountains to
the city (not before November, if possible) the occasional recurrence
of the trouble will generally be limited to the rainy weeks of the first
month, for the antipyretic influence of cold, clear weather rivals that
of the perspiration-cure.
The danger of a hemorrhage is generally passed when the ces-
sation of purulent expectorations proves that the disease has become
non-progressive, and that the ulcers begin to cicatrize. Hemoptysis,
or blood-vomiting, is the only symptom of their disease which is lia-
ble to shake the characteristic hopefulness of consumptives. It gen-
erally frightens them considerably ; they are apt to protest against
out-door proceedings, and speak with bated breath, under the (errone-
ous) impression that a vocal effort has somehow induced the trouble.
It can do no harm to humor that disposition ; but keep the patient
on his legs — lying down flat on the back after a heavy ha?morrhage is
almost sure to bring on a relapse before the end of twenty-four hours.
For the first three or four hours walk slowly up and down, try to keep
up a deep and calm resj^iration, and, if possible, take the first nap in a
sitting posture — propped up with cushions and pillows. At the end
