THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 193
of forty-eight hours the clanger is past, and out-door exercise may be
gradually resumed.
For stubborn dyspncea (Avant of breath) there is a somewhat
heroic but almost infallible palliative, though I own that the rationale
of its efficacy is somewhat undefined — artificial insomnia. Read or
write as long as that will keep you awake ; after midnight Avalk up
and down the room for fear of falling asleep in the chair, and toward
morning, when drowsiness becomes irresistible, go to bed for a few
hours, and that they will be passed in peaceful sleep can generally be
inferred from the circumstance that by that time the dyspnoea has
disappeared. After the second night's vigils the trouble is not apt to
recur for a month or so. But, unless the distress is utterly unbearable,
or the necessity for prompt recuperation very urgent, it is, on the
whole, better to eschew palliatives and rely on the only permanent
asthma-cure — the gradual but normal invigoration of the whole system.
In CHRONIC CATARRH — a frequent concomitant of a tubercular diath-
esis — the obstruction of the nasal ducts by accumulated mucus yields
in a day or two to any exercise that brings into play the muscles of
the neck, shoulders, and chest, such as shouldering a good-sized log,
w^alking bolt-upright with two lai-ge pails full of water, or a loaded
wheelbarrow. A very simple household remedy is a palliative to the
same effect : hot water applied to the palms of the hands and the
soles of the feet. It affords immediate though often only temporary
relief ; for the diathermal influence of the hot- water treatment, as it
were, dries up, and thus temporarily reduces the mucous accumula-
tions, w^hile the preferable exercise- cure more gradually but perma-
nently removes the cause of the trouble.
The stitch-like pain in the chest is aj^t to recur with every ca-
tarrh, and forms, indeed, only an incidental concomitant of tubercular
consumption. It is a pleuritic affection, and is often entirely wanting
in cases that end with death by tubercular cachexia. The Calmuck
Tartars, who defile the air of their family tents with tobacco-smoke
and suffer the usual consequences, cure pleuritic inflammation by a
simple method of inunction : viz., by fomenting the nape and chest
with hot mutton-tallow. When loss of appetite indicates a derange-
ment of the digestive organs, ointments may be used as a temporary
substitute for a demulcent diet.
Dropsical swellings, chronic diarrhoea, with frequent chills, prove
that the disease has reached the colliquative or hopeless stage of its
development. But, even under such circumstances, the mountain-cure,
in the form of moderate exercise in the pure air of a highland sanita-
rium, will confer at least the negative benefit of saving the patient
from the horrors preceding the last act of a hospital-tragedy — it will
insure an anaesthetic conclusion of the disease ; the vital strength will
ebb away in a painless deliqidum.
But while the vital forces still keep the foe at bay, i. e., before the
VOL. xxni. — 13
