194 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
symptoms of the decline have assumed the chronic form, before the
process of digestion becomes utterly deranged, before the impoverish-
ment of the blood results in dropsy and a livid discoloration of the
lips, while the patient has intervals of sound sleep and sound appetite,
and strength enough left to walk a couple of miles — there is more than
an even chance that the disease can be permanently cured. One me-
mento only of its ravages will remain — the acceleration of the breath-
ing-process whenever the convalescent engages in active exercise.
But even that inconvenience can be diminished by a system of training
that will gradually inure the lungs to the strain of the ordinary move-
ments and exertions of daily life : namely, by walking up-hill (or up-
stairs) with a load of daily increasing weight. After two months or
so it will take two scuttles full of coal to produce the panting and
gasping which used to result from a small jDailful of water, and the
mere weight of the body will seem barely sufficient to indicate the
difference between a rough mountain-trail and a graded pike-road.
A few years ago an emaciated Canadian miner came South for his
health, and located a small placer-claim on the plateau of the " Fort
Mountain," in Murray County, Georgia. The mountain is a mile high,
and the up-trip with a few dozen eggs from the next valley farm
obliged the miner to stop every few minutes to keep his chest from
bursting, but before the end of the year he was able to make the same
trip, without a stop, with a bushel-bag full of corn-meal. The waste
from the corrosions of the tubercle-virus can perhaps never be repaired,
but the healthy tissue of the remaining portion of the lung is suscep-
tible both of expansion and invigoration. The lungs expand and con-
tract with the chest. If three sisters marry on the same day — the first
a ferryman, and learns to row a boat ; the second a tailor, and takes to
tight-lacing ; the third a grocer, and tends his shop — an autopsy would
show that in twenty years after their sepaifttion the ferrywoman's
lungs have grown fifty per cent larger than the shopkeeper's, and fully
twice as large as the dressmaker's.
But few consumptives ever outgrow the sensitiveness of their
lungs, and must beware of contagion, avoid crowded meetings and
lectures, and rather offend Mrs. Grundy than prolong their visits to a
catarrh - infected house. Thoroughly healed though reduced lungs
(reduced often to two thirds of their original size) will perform their
functions in a sufficient manner for a long series of years. With the
above-named precautions and a nutritive but strictly non-stimulating
diet, there is no reason why a convalescent from pulmonary scrofula
in its most unmistakable form should not enjoy an out-door festi-
val in honor of his eightieth birthday. It is well known that in the
deliqiihim of pulmonary consumption, in the stage of violent haem-
orrhages and dropsical swellings, the confidence of the patient often
gives way to gloomy forebodings — the harbingers of the long night
that never fails to cast its shadows before. But this despondency
