A GERMAN VIEW OF THE ''DATA OF ETHICS:' 195
is not more significant than the hopefulness that precedes it. For I
believe that instinct is right in both cases, and that in the first stages
of its development consumption is really the most curable of all
chronic diseases. Chateaubriand, Hcinrich Yoss, Count Stolberg, Al-
fieri, Francis Deak, and Dr. Zimmermann, -vrere descended from con-
sumptive parents, but redeemed their constitutions by traveling and
out-door exercise, and attained to a more than average longevity.
Goethe, in his younger years, was subject to hectic fevers, with fre-
quent haemorrhages, but recovered and died as an octogenarian.
A tendency to emaciation, the most characteristic symptom of tu-
berculosis, generally continues to counteract the normal effects of a lib-
eral diet, even combined with continence and a tranquil mode of life ;
but the limitation of that tendency is a suflicient guarantee that the
disease has become non-progressive. But there is a still surer crite-
rion : consumptives are generally remarkably fair and smooth skinned.
The reason is, that the dross of the cachectic system gravitates toward
the diseased lungs. An East-Indian surgeon found that small-pox can be
localized by rubbing the chest with croton-oil, and thus concentrating
the eruption. Pulmonary consumption is a kind of centralized scrof-
ula. Two hundred years ago, when the cutaneous form of the dis-
ease was more frequent, surgery was often invoked to remove ulcers
that threatened to disfigure the patient or destroy his eyesight. The
approved method was to produce an artificial and larger sore, where it
could not do so much harm, on the arm, below the chin, or on the
nape of the neck. The larger sore attracted the morbific matter ; and
thus healed the smaller one. For cognate reasons, a scrofulous affec-
tion of the respiratory organs acts, as it were, as a cosmetic. Pimples
disappear ; boils head at once, and without suppuration ; intemper-
ance, surfeits, a congenital taint of scrofula, do not affect the color
of the face ; and (excepting the effect of gross dietetic abuses, which
ultimately react on the lungs) the cutaneous excretion of such impuri-
ties is therefore not an unfavorable symptom. For their reappearance
on the surface of the body proves that the respiratory organs have
ceased to attract the cachectic humors of the system ; in other words,
that the tubercle-sores have cicatrized, and the lung-destroying virus
has been eradicated.
A GEEIIA^^ YIEW OF THE " DATA OF ETHICS." *
By FEEEDKICH VON BAEREXBACH.
PIIILOSOPIIICAL thought is tending more and more toward con-
centrating itself upon problems of physiological as distinguished
from metaphysical psychology, and to the inquiry after those facts
which can be ascertained. The best workers in this field are still
* Translated and abridged for " The Popular Science Monthly " by Thomas Cross.
