196 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
troubled, nevertheless, lest they may lose the conneetion with the
sciences, and particularly with that special research and exact calcula-
tion under the influence of which a happy reaction has made itself
felt in the various departments of philosophy against the intuitive and
undisciplined •\vays of thinking that have characterized many meta-
physicians.
As in life all gives place to the question of the highest utility, so
in science all gives place to pure theoretical interest in enriching our
knowledge of facts. But, while this may find its justification in the
history of culture, the problems of the work of culture are no more
exhausted thereby than the problems of thought. Philosophy would
surrender her most important function were she to shirk the solution
of those problems which she alone can solve. To these problems
belong, last not least, those of ethics.
The progress of scientific knowledge in all domains of inquiry is
the mightiest instrument in aid of the progress of culture. Its influ-
ence reaches, directly or indirectly, to all human relations, not excejjt-
ing moral development. Apparent contradictions diminish or disap-
pear before the macroscopic glance, which, not fixed upon any isolated
point, takes in the whole range of facts and causes in their mutual
relations. We are at the same time convinced, even by the considera-
tion of the educational influence which scientific efforts have acquired
in all strata of modern society, that all is not done. The gap is visible
and sensible in philosophy and in life.
The needs of a great community of thinking men neither seek nor
find any satisfaction in the dogmas of a positive confession of faith,
while, for the foundation of a system of practical regulative laws
and ethical principles, the progress of inductive science does not fur-
nish all that is needed. A bridge is wanted, which shall establish con-
nection with active life ; a well-spring of right, from which laws and
principles can be drawn and distributed.
According to some philosophers, ethics stands or falls with meta-
physics. That this is not the case has been proved by the isolated
achievements in moral philosophy of the disciples of modern positiv-
ism, and is demonstrated afresh by Herbert Spencer in his " Data of
Ethics," This author occupies so conspicuous a position among the
philosophic writers of the century, that the summons to a study of his
Avorks may well find ample response.
We may gather, from the preface to his last work, how Herbert
Spencer, like other founders of great philosophic systems, esteems the
importance of ethics. " This last part of the task it is to which I re-
gard all the preceding parts as subsidiary." From the beginning of
his philosophical activity this was the " last goal," the object to which
all efforts were preparatory — to find a scientific basis for the jDrinciples
of good and bad in action.
" Now that moral injunctions are losing the authority given by
