200 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of incliTiduals will be the object. Individual haj^pincss has the last
word.
In the " System of Synthetic Philosophy," evolution is the univer-
sal world-law, the law of laws, dispensing Avith all need of stern com-
mandments of revealed religion and theological morality. The evo-
lution of human nature and society brings with itself this, that human
conduct becomes better and better adapted to individual and social
aims ; that good conduct (adapted to the preservation of the race)
gradually overpowers bad conduct (unadapted to self and race main-
tenance) in that struggle for existence in which morality and virtue
have on their side every advantage. As the fitter organism survives
the less fit, so must moral conduct in the natural course of things
gain the upper hand, and immoral conduct tend more and more to-
ward extinction. Thus, according to immutable laws, higher forms
of conduct must be evolved from the original conduct of man in his
lower estate, as higher organisms are evolved from lower. Changes
such as have taken place in the course of civilization will take place
again. The want of faith in a further like development, whereby
man's nature will be brought into harmony with his condition, is only
one of the innumerable proofs of an inadequate knowledge of causal-
ity ; and he who has learned to put aside primitive dogmas and primi-
tive ways of looking at things, and who has appropriated those modes
of thought which science produces, can not believe that the " whole-
some working Force " which has hitherto so changed all forms of life
according to the altered requirements of their being, will not continue
to operate in the same direction.
Ethical evolution affords an imposing outlook for the future of
mankind. Man does not waver, like Hercules, between virtue and
happiness. He is spared all pain of choice. Virtue and happiness are
the one inseparable goal which he approaches with steady advance.
Nature herself leads him on, and he has in his own nature the assur-
ance of victory. Ceaselessly bent upon his own advancement, rest-
lessly at work improving the conditions of his existence, he at the
same time nourishes his moral life. No moral law opposes the im-
pulses to this advance. No antinomy between moral and natural law
needs solution, no strife between moral and sensual impulses need be
decided. Always and everywhere an aspiration, a goal. No subjec-
tion of the ego to a law which commands without regard to weal or
woe, no sacrifice of individual claims, no giving up of self at the bid-
ding of an absolute moral law. Development is never interrupted.
In ceaseless progress it approaches the goal — the greatest sum of well-
being. The rigoristic " Thou canst, for thou oughtst," has no place
here. Guidance is enough, compulsion is not needed.
This ethics is confessedly utilitarian, before all things a higher
form of utilitarianism ; but no raw materialist philosophy of useful-
ness, addressing itself to brutal egoism, to sensual enjoyment, to the
