A GERM AX VIEW OF THE ''DATA OF ETHICS:' 201
•worship of material vrealth, to the thirst for riches and power at the
expense of others. Whatever furthers development and brings its
goal nearer, is useful ; and the goal of development lies in a fau* and
distant future, -whose outline the philosopher thinks he sees. The
highest aim, to which all others are subsidiary, to which the strivings
of the best are directed, is a moral order of life corresponding to the
noblest longings of reason, of the most highly developed man in the
most highly developed society. Such a system appeals to that en-
nobled and enlightened utilitarianism which constitutes the longing
after ideal possessions — the condition of the highest welfare of man.
The rigorism of other moral systems has no place in the ethics of
evolution. Its moral law is not like that of Kant, sublimely above all
connection with natural impulses and inclinations, nor does it consti-
tute moral life a continuous battle against desires which aim at the
furthering of individual happiness. " Great mischief has been done
by the repellent aspect habitually given to moral rule by its exposi-
tors, and immense benefits are to be anticipated from presenting moral
rule under that attractive aspect which it has when undistorted by
superstition and asceticism. If a father, sternly enforcing numerous
commands, some needful and some needless, adds to his severe con-
trol a behavior wholly unsympathetic ; if his children have to take
their pleasure by stealth, or, when timidly looking up from their play,
ever meet a cold glance, or more frequently a frown — his government
will inevitably be disliked, if not hated ; and the aim will be to evade
it as much as possible. Contrariwise, a father who, equally firm in
maintaining restraints needful for the well-being of his children or
the well-being of other persons, not only avoids needless restraints,
but, giving his sanction to all legitimate gratifications and providing
the means for them, looks on at their gambols with an approving
smile, can scarcely fail to gain an influence which, no less efficient for
the time being, will also be permanently efficient. The controls, of
two such fathei'S symbolize the controls of morality as it is and moral-
ity as it should be."
This comparison, however, does not hold good of all forms of rig-
orism. Kant's moral law knows neither inclination nor disinclina-
tion. It neither attracts by rewards nor terrifies by punishments. It
is neither the father who adds unsympathetic bearing to stern super-
vision, nor the father who helps the enjoyment of his children and
watches their games. It is sublime above all traffic with the inclina-
tions. And it may still be asked whether Kant was " so far from the
track of truth " when he sought the ethical criterion in the law-abiding,
duty-abiding sentiment, and maintained the supremacy of that senti-
ment with that enthusiasm which inspired his famous apostrophe to
duty : " Duty, thou sublime, thou lofty name ; which embracest with-
in thee naught beloved bringing flattery ; commanding submission,
though threatening nothing to move the will, but only setting up a
