202 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
law which of itself finds entry into the breast, and wins for itself un-
willing reverence, if not always obedience ; before which all desires
are dumb, even should they woi'k against it in secret. "What origin
is worthy of thee, and where shall I seek the roots of thy noble de-
scent, wliich pi'oudly spurns all kinship with the desires ? "
But, if we accept the system of Herbert Spencer, the rigoristic
conception of Kant appears superfluous and even injurious. The doc-
trine of natural development affords a glimpse of the promised land,
of a future wherein virtue and happiness will mean the same thing,
wherein no antagonism will be conceivable between duty and inclina-
tion. No ethics can cheer us to imresting strife by a nobler goal, none
can hold out a sublimer prospect. A beautiful faith is that in the
upward movement of humanity. It renders easy the battles, the dan-
gers, the countless sacrifices, Avhich lie in the way.
But, notwithstanding the merits of the work under consideration,
in certain principal utterances, and in its distinguished contributions
to relative ethics, the fundamental principle of absolute ethics, the
ethical criterion of action, ajDpears to belong as yet to the number of
those problems most needing solution. The last word is not yet
spoken ; but the results placed in our possession so far, justify the as-
sumption that the evolutionary system of Herbert Spencer will mate-
rially assist the thorough reform of ethics, by its critical and positive
prejjaratory work.
COST or LIFE.
By JOHN PKATT.
^VT"OTHIXG so forcibly strikes the attentive observer of natural
-L^ phenomena as the prodigal expenditure of force and matter^ —
the immense over-supply of seed ; the enormous waste of sun-force in
irrigation ; the incalculable power, never to be utilized, represented in
tidal action, and in atmospheric, oceanic, and river currents. If we
extend our observation to the solar system and the inconceivable spaces
intervening between that and the neighboring systems, the imagination
fails to grasp the relation between the force that is utilized and that
which is wasted. A million carried to the tenth power as a multiple,
would fail to represent the waste of natural forces, as compared with
the rudest Newcomen pumping-engine of the earliest type. This is
familiar science, yet the expansion of the idea may present some
points of novelty.
It is obvious that the whole system of planets, representiftg so
many minute points in space, receive only an almost infinitesimally
small proportion of the light and heat evolved by the sun. Some
physicists are fond of giving the exact figures, but this is presenting
