THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 7
the cool breath of the night-wind becomes a chief condition of a good
night's rest, and the closing of the bedroom windows creates a feeling
of uneasiness not unlike the discomfort induced by an attempt to sleep
with your head under the blankets. In the sleeping-dens of the French
village-taverns, where, after September, the window-sashes are actually
nailed down, the children of a hygienic home would pine for a draught
of oxygen as a sweltering traveler thirsts after fresh water.
Besides open windows, Dio Lewis recommends an open fire-place
and a good wood-fire all night ; but that is a matter of taste : an extra
blanket will serve the same purpose, and the danger of damp bed-
clothes * in winter has been as strangely exaggerated as have the per-
ils of cold drinking-water in midsummer.
In stormy nights a half-closed " rain-shutter " (a window-blind
with broad bars) will keep the room perfectly dry without excluding
the air. If the mercury sinks below zero, close every window in the
house. Intense cold is a disinfectant, that purifies even the air of the
hide-covered dungeons where the natives of the polar regions pass the
long winter nights. In the dog-days, on the other hand, do not be
satisfied with anything less than a thorough draught ; open every win-
dow in and around the bedi'oom. Consumption has been recognized as
a zymotic disease, and sultry heat favors the development of all morbific
germs.
Where the prejudice against open windows has been cured, the
cold-air superstition often lingers in the form of a repugnance to out-
door exercise in winter. After the last of October thousands of con-
valescents suspend their morning rambles, and the hectic symptoms
soon reappear. The aggravation of the disease may scare the patients
into a warmer climate, but most of them would rather breathe sick-
room miasma than the winter air of a high latitude. The truth is,
that the prophylactic influence of the out-door atmosphere depends
less upon its temperature than upon its purity, and for the open-air treat-
ment of lung-diseases a cold, clear winter morning is more propitious
than a dusty summer day. The contrast is shown in the effect. A
single hour's exercise in the skating-ring or under a snow-covered
wood-shed, a sleigh-ride, a brisk walk through an ice-glittering park,
will ease the respiratory organs more effectually than a week of languid
rambles through the dust and heat of an Italian campagna.
In larger cities, especially, a good frost defectates the lung-poison-
ing efiiuvia of the slum-alleys, while heat aggravates their offensive-
ness. In the cities of our Atlantic seaboard July is about the most
unfragrant month in the year, and August the dustiest. Soon after
the summer solstice wealthy invalids should, therefore, pack their
* " I shall not attempt to explain why damp clothes occasion cold, rather than wet
ones, because I doubt the fact ; I imagine that neither the one nor the other contributes
to that effect, and that the causes of ' colds ' are totally independent of wet, and even of
cold" (Benjamin Franklin's "Essays," p. 216).
