COST OF LIFE. 203
the inconceivable. Siemens has made a very unsatisfactory effort to
show that the force is conserved. He has made but few converts to
his theory. It is the purpose of this monograph merely to expand the
received idea of waste, by showing that the recipients of the prodigal
bounty of the great giver of all good in our solar system — the sun —
are far fewer than is usually supposed.
Before the spectroscope taught us that the reign of chemism is co-
extensive with that of physics, many conjectures were indulged in by
astronomers as to the inhabitability of the planets in general. It was
taken for granted that there was probably an endless variety in the
forms, composition, and even original substance of matter. Vegeta-
tion and animalism probably assumed wonderful shapes, and were
capable of existing amid conditions not only altogether different from
the terrestrial, but altogether incompatible with life on this earth.
This conception, unphilosophical a priori, and indirectly the fruit of
the wonder-instinct and that bias inherited, according to Comte, from
the theological regime, has been swept away, and the reign of law
extended to the mystic dream-lands of the universe. No thinker so
loosely hinged now as to imagine life without a certain degree of
heat, light, and without oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and all the chemi-
cal elements, and that too in protean forms. Nay, more, the forms and
succession of life must be, wherever found, substantially such as we
are familiar with. If Venus has human inhabitants, they are not one-
eyed Cyclops, nor does vegetation bury its leaves in the ground and
spread its roots in the air. Organs, and functions, and instinct are
there also, subject to the grand laws of selection and development.
Further, the absence of conditions essential to the sustenance of life
on our globe would be equally fatal in any other. This brings up
the question in hand — the scarcity, as a part of the problem of the
cost, of life.
What planets are inhabited ? Let us begin with the giant worlds
on the verge of the system. In the first place, as might have been
conjectured even before the revelations of the spectroscope, from their
great volume of light as compared with their distances from the sun,
all of these great bodies are self-luminous. They are at least incandes-
cent, and doubtless Jupiter and Saturn are in a fluid, perhaps gaseous
state. There can not be the slightest doubt that they are no more fit
for life than the sun itself. Will they ever become the habitations of
living things ? Ignoring their distance from the sun, which to an in-
habitant of Saturn would have about the apparent magnitude that
Jupiter has to us, there are other considerations which set that ques-
tion at rest.
The volume of Jupiter, for example, is about 1,280, Saturn 991,
Uranus 80, times that of the Earth. The density of Jupiter being
about 1-40 and that of the Earth 5 '48, it follows that the attraction
exerted by Jupiter is, roughly, 300 times that of the Earth. A man
