204 ^^^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
who weighs 150 pounds on the Earth, if transported to Jupiter, would
shake the ground with a ponderous tread of 45,000 pounds, or 22^
tons ! His own wciglit wouki at once crush him into a mere pulp. A
hickory-nut, falling from a bough, would crash through him like a
Minie-ball. Again, water would Aveigh fifteen times as much as quick-
silver. A moderate wave would shiver to atoms the strongest iron-
clad, a rivulet would quickly form canons miles deep, and ordinary
hailstones would destroy every living thing. If we suppose the exist-
ence of an atmosphere, even no more profound than our own, its weight
would be a third that of Avater, and its pressure 4,500 jjounds to the
square inch — sufficient to crush a rhinoceros or the boiler of a steam-
engine. In motion, as a moderate breeze, it would sweep away not
only every work of man, but the very hills and mountains. The same
condition, in less degree, may be predicated of the lesser of the giant
planets, and Jupiter is only selected as the most striking example.
Putting aside the hundreds of known, and the thousands and millions
of unknown asteroids, as obviously unfit for life, let us next consider
the case of Mars. The relative mass of Mars being only about -^ that
of the Earth, it follows, as a necessary consequence of the laws of gravi-
tation, that our typical man would only weigh about 2^ pounds on the
surface of that planet. Individual locomotion would be wonderfully
facilitated, but its conditions would be reversed. The familiar dream
of flying by a mere upward movement of the limbs might easily be
realized in Mars, but an 80-ton locomotive would not propel a train of
empty cars, and mechanical work of all kinds would be practically im-
possible. Kiagara Falls, in such a planet, with water approximating
the weight of air, would scarcely furnish power for a mill. A rifle-
ball might be caught in the hand without harm. It is obvious that,
Avith an atmosphere of the density of our own, animal and vegetable
life, and every artificial work, rei:)resenting so many structures of gos-
samer, Avould disappear like magic at the first breeze. But no such
atmosphere as ours is possible Avith Mars. Even supposing it to equal
our OAvn in altitude, its pressure would be only about one fourth of a
pound to the inch. Life is impossible in such an atmosphere, as is
shown by a far less tenuity at the summits of lofty mountains. But,
even if gravitation were not deficient, the distance of Mars from the
sun entitles him to considerably less than half our supply of light and
heat ; a disadvantage immensely aggravated by his very eccentric
orbit. Croll has shown how the shifting eccentricity of the earth's
orbit, by adding three weeks to the duration of winter, brought about
the glacial epochs, and covered nearly the whole earth with ice at
various eras. Conceive, then, the thermometer in the Martial torrid
regions touching 50°, and that even under the hypothesis, rendered
impossible by the very laws of gravitation, of an atmosphere as dense
as our OAvn ! Nothing can be more certain than that there is no liquid
in Mars, and no life.
