COST OF LIFE. 205
The same set of conditions, in exaggerated degree, exist in the
minor superior planets, Ceres, Pallas, Juno, etc., while the asteroids
are as much out of the question as the comets and meteors. In regard
to the Jovian and Saturnian satellites, only probable conjecture can be
indulged. AVe do not know with sufficient accuracy the degree of
heat and light received from their primaries, to judge of those condi-
tions, but all the obstacles flowing out of deficient gravitation predi-
cated of Mars exist in equal degree in these satellites, the largest of
which is inferior to Mars in dimensions.
In regard to our own moon much more definite information is ac-
cessible, though little need be said of its present life-conditions. Its
bi-monthly axial revolution, its long, more than torrid day and ant-
arctic night render it unnecessary to consider the question. But the
mass of this satellite being about a third less than even that of Mars,
interposes, and has ever interposed, the same everlasting mechanical
obstacles to life there as in Mars. Atmosphere the moon may once
have possessed, but it must always have been insufficient for life, in-
sufficient to secure the stability of water, which, even if it continued
in a liquid condition, would be swept — so light was it — in vast tides
over the highest mountains. For the rest, if there be a man in the
moon, it is interesting to know that he weighs less than two pounds,
and can jump a mile, more or less.
Mercury, with a temperature of boiling water in the frigid zones
and red-hot iron at the equator, may be a good place for a Calvinist
to send his wicked neighbor, in imagination, but it can not be placed
among the list of inhabited worlds. At last, then, out of all the vast,
the countless myriads of circling orbs that do homage to our sun,
only two remain to be considered — the Earth and Venus.
Yenus, although too near the sun to render it likely that her trop-
ical regions are habitable by man, is, so far as can be judged from her
general physical condition, by no means destitute of life. If there be
truth in the nebular hypothesis, Venus is younger than the Earth, and
is therefore perhaps not evolutionized as to the highest forms. As to
this, speculation would be little better than conjecture. Enough, that
of Venus it can not be said, as of the other planets, with a certitude
derived from the exact sciences, that there is no life in her.
The insignificant little globe called the Earth furnishes the only
assurance of the higher forms of life, and, with the one exception of a
globe even less than ours, of life in any stage of evolution. The Earth
is not the millionth part of the known matter of our system, and, com-
pared with the space occupied by that system, is far more insignificant
than the smallest fleck of foam in the ocean. This tiny island in space
does indeed teem with life ; but, if this life were distributed equally
through the space given to its production, thousands of miles would
intervene between every individual form.
So much for the space and energy expended in the evolution of
