2o6 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
vitality. The same immense expenditure, the same apparent dispropor-
tion discloses itself when we consider the time that has been consumed
in the process. Here we are again confronted by figures approximat-
ing eternity. Life has existed on the Earth millions of years, and
mammalian life hundreds of thousands of years. Yet such periods are
insignificant in comparison with the cosmogony of the planets. The
duration of the highest order of life, under the refined conditions of
a high type of civilization, is but of yesterday comparatively, but it
has taken so enormous a period to ripen that we can no more conceive
of it than of eternity. A space so vast that it is a tedious journey for
'light to traverse, and a lapse of time so great that a snail might have
made the circuit with ease in the morning of it, have been necessary to
give birth to one Shakespeare ! All this space, and all this time, and
all this immortal energy have as yet barely sufficed to develop a few
organisms capable of a glimmering comprehension of the forces which
have evolved them. All the rest, if the accepted theories of gravita-
tion and light and heat are not wholly illusory or misunderstood, is
waste space, waste matter, waste energy. Life is far more rare and
far more costly in our solar system than diamonds in the earth.
But why not ? Space is boundless, matter is infinite in quantity,
and time is limitless, past and to come. Where the treasure is ex-
haustless, the question of cost is only interesting from a speculative
point of view. This as regards the past.
One of the elements of cost — time — has an interesting bearing on
the future of the universe. Some scientists have of late indulged in
presages more despondent than philosophical. According to this
school, the dissipation of energy into space will finally result in the
death of matter. Matter, being indestructible, will exist forever, but
its soul will perish ; first the vital form, then electricity, light, and
heat, and finally even atomic vibration — leaving all cosmic bodies
mere cadavers, like the terrestrial moon. This view has been com-
bated by special theories, like that of Siemens, but not with great
success. But there is a large aspect of the question which, though it
seems to have escaped the attention of thinkers, at once sets it at rest,
and demonstrates that energy and life are immortal. Bacon says of
eternal duration, that, dividing it into past and future, it is of no con-
sequence where we draw the line ; a billion years ago, or a billion
years hence, or the present, the two parts are still equal to each other
and to the whole ; thus contradicting all the laws of quantity. If
this be a paradox, it has the peculiarity of being irrefutable, since it is
impossible to conceive of any greater eternity than either the past or
the future. Assuredly it can not be maintained that the future eter-
nity is greater than the past. Assuming, then, this postulate, and that
energy in all phases has been eternal in the past, it follows, with a
force that commands unhesitating assent, that it will be eternal in
the future. "Whatever is, has been ; whatever will be, has been. En
