SCIENCE-TEACHING IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 209
of teaching and a manner of study are calculated to awaken the spirit
of inquiry, to cultivate the habit of investigation, and rouse independ-
dent thought, our question goes to the root of all true education.
All sciences are the products of a method of thinking, and it is
that method which concerns us when we propose to regard it as a
means of mental cultivation. Science is an outgrowth of common
knowledge, and the scientific method is but a development of the
ordinary processes of thought that are employed by everybody. The
common knowledge of people is imperfect because their observations
are vague and loose, their reasoning hasty and careless, their minds
warped by prejudice and deadened by credulity, and because they
find it easier to invent fanciful explanations of things than to discover
the real ones. For thousands of years the knowledge of nature was
rude and stationary because the habits of thought were so defective.
But, with a growing desire to understand how the world around is
constituted, men improved their processes of thinking. They began,
and were compelled to begin, by questioning accepted facts, and
doubting current theories. The first step was one of self-assertion,
implying that degree of mental independence which led men to think
for themselves. They learned to make their own observations and to
trust them against authority. It was found, as a first and indispen-
sable condition of gaining clear ideas, that the mind must be occupied
directly with the subject to be investigated. In this way scientific
inquiry at length grew into a method of forming judgments which
was characterized by the most vigilant and disciplined precautions
against error. Of the mental processes involved in research it is un-
necessary here to speak ; we are only concerned to know that the sci-
entific method is simply a systematic exercise in truth-seeking, and is
the only mode of using the human mind when it is desired to attain
the most accurate and perfect form of knowledge. The whole body
of modern scientific truth, disclosing the order of Nature and guiding
the development of civilization, must be taken as an attestation of the
validity of the scientific method of thought by which these results
have been established. We here get rid of all cramping limitations.
The scientific method is applicable to all subjects whatever that in-
volve constancy of relations, causes and effects, and conform to the
operation of law. It is applicable wherever evidence is to be weighed,
error got rid of, facts determined, and principles established. Our
public schools, unhappily, make but little use of this method in the
work of mental cultivation, and we shall find some explanation of this
by referring to the way they grew up.
The American public-school system originated in the theory that
the State owes to every child the rudiments of a common education,
or an elementary knowledge of reading, writing, and arithmetic, as im-
plements of after mental improvement. But it was early found difiicult
to separate this primary use of tools from the acquisition of knowledge.
VOL. XXIII. — 14
