212 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing in favor, and we are once more told that it is a successful revolt
against book-studies. It is chiefly applicable to the sciences, and its
cardinal idea is instruction without a text -book. This looks fair, but
it is delusive. The method does not remove the book that the piipil
may come at the phenomena, but it removes the book that the teacher
may take its place. Oral-teaching is class-instruction, in which infor-
mation is imparted in a familiar manner with the view of awakening
the interest of the class. But, so far as real science is concerned, it is
doubtful if this method is not worse than the one it replaces. Fol-
lowing the maxim of certain German educators, that " the teacher is
the school," it was assumed that when apathy prevails in the school-
room it is solely the teachers' fault. Oral exercises enable them to
escape this reproach by giving animation to school-work. It is said
that this is a " live system " in contrast to the old humdrum routine
of lessons and recitations. But science gets no real help. There is
only the substitution of a superficial class-activity for the more delib-
erate work of the individual pupil. More mental effort is required on
his part to get a lesson from a book than to listen to a lesson given by
the teacher. The teacher is to do everything, and stands in the place
not only of the book but of the pupil also. Is this not a step back-
ward in education ? The teacher is magnified at the expense of close
study, and science is cheajiened by the method. Oral-teaching implies
a fertility, a versatility, and a proficiency in scientific knowledge on
the part of teachers which that class of persons does not possess. It
is a premium on tutorial smattering and cramming by which the volu-
ble teacher with supei"ficial acquisitions and a ready memory becomes
the model teacher. There may be benefits in this method, but science
does not gain them. Judicious oral assistance, as in the physical,
chemical, or natural history laboratory, given by a competent master
to a pupil at work, is invaluable for stimulus and guidance ; but the
aid must be discreet, and the skillful teacher will not talk too much.
But where it is all talk and no work, and text-books are filtered
through the very imperfect medium of the ordinary teacher's mind,
and the pupil has nothing to do but to be instructed, every sound
principle of education is outraged, and science is only made ridiculous.
This failure to gain the benefits of real scientific study has its
source deep in the constitution of the public schools. In dealing with
masses of children, classification became necessary, which gave rise, as
we have seen, to grading and an elaborate mechanical system. The
working of children in lots seems to be a necessity of the public schools,
but it strengthens the practice of verbal instruction, recitations, and
lesson-giving. It is well fitted to impress the public with the idea
that there is much done in the schools. There are a prescribed routine
of operations and a display of order that are admired. But teacher and
learner are subordinated to the system. It is machine-work, and ma-
chines make no allowances. Gradation assumes and enforces a uni-
