THE CHEMISTRY OF COOKERY. 215
the seed, which he then moves into it, and, when the growth is com-
pleted, he moves the result, and thereby makes his harvest.
The same may be said of every other operation. Man alters the
position of phjsical things in such wise that the forces of Nature shall
operate upon them and produce the changes or other results that he
requires.
My reasons for this introductory digression will be easily under-
stood, as this view of the doings of man and the doings of Nature
displays fundamentally the business of human education, so far as the
physical proceedings and physical welfare of mankind are concerned.
It clearly points out two well-marked natural divisions of such
education : education or training in the movements to be made, and
education in a knowledge of the consequences of such movements —
i. e., in a knowledge of the forces of Nature which actually do the
work when man has suitably arranged the materials.
The education ordinarily given to apprentices in the workshop, or
the field, or the studio — or, as relating to my present subject, the
kitchen — is the first of these ; the second, and equally necessary, being
simply and purely the teaching of physical science as applied to the
arts.
I can not proceed any further without a protest against a very gen-
eral (so far as this country is concerned) misuse of a now very popu-
lar term — a misuse that is rather surprising, seeing that it is accepted
by scholars who have devoted the best of their intellectual efforts to
the study of words. I refer to the word technical as 'applied in the
designation " technical education."
So long as our workshops are separated from our science-schools
and colleges, it is most desirable, in order to avoid continual circumlo-
cution, to have terms that shall properly distinguish between the work
of the two, and admit of definite and consistent use. The two words
are ready at hand, and, although of Greek origin, have become by
analogous usage plain, simple English. I mean the words technical
and technological.
The Greek noun techne signifies an art, trade, or profession, and
our established usage of this root is in accordance with this significa-
tion. Therefore " technical education " is a suitable and proper des-
ignation of the training which is given to apprentices, etc., in the
strictly technical details of their trades, arts, or professions. When
we require a name for the science or the philosophy of anything, we
obtain it by using the Greek root logos, and appending it in English
form to the Greek name of the general subject, as geology, the science
of the earth ; anthropology, the science of man ; biology, the science
of life, etc.
Why not, then, follow this general usage, and adopt " technology "
as the science of trades, arts, or professions, and thereby obtain con-
sistent and convenient terms to designate the two divisions of educa-
