2i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tion — technical education, that given in the workshop, etc. ; and tech-
nological education, that which should be given as supplementary to
all such technical education ?
In accordance with this, the papers I am here commencing will be
a contribution to the technology of cookery, or to the technological
education of cooks, whose technical education is quite beyond my
reach.
The kitchen is a chemical laboratory, in which are conducted a
number of chemical processes, by which our food is converted from
its crude state to a condition more suitable for digestion and nutri-
tion, and made more agreeable to the palate.
It is the rationale or ology of these processes that I shall endeavor
to explain ; but at the outset it is only fair to say that in many in-
stances I shall not succeed in doing this satisfactorily, as there still
remain some kitchen mysteries that have not yet come within the firm
grasp of science. The xohole story of the chemical differences be-
tween a roast, a boiled, and a raw leg of mutton, has not yet been
told. You and I, gentle reader, aided by no other apparatus than a
knife and fork, can easily detect the difference between a cut out of
the saddle of a three-year-old Southdown and one from a ten-months-
old meadow-fod Leicester ; but the chemist in his laboratory, with all
his re-agents, test-tubes, beakers, combustion-tubes, potash-bulbs, etc.,
etc., and his balance turning to one-thousandth of a grain, could not
physically demonstrate the sources of these differences of flavor.
Still, I hope to show that modern chemistry can throw into the
kitchen a gi-eat deal of light that shall not merely help the cook in
doing his or her work more efficiently, but shall elevate both the work
and the worker, and render the kitchen far more interesting to all in-
telligent people who have an appetite for knowledge, as well as for
food, than it can be while the cook is groping in rule-of -thumb dark-
ness — is merely a technical operator unenlightened by technological
intelligence.
In the course of these papers I shall draw largely on the practical
and philosophical work of that remarkable man, Benjamin Thompson,
the Massachusetts prentice-boy and schoolmaster ; afterward the
British soldier and diplomatist. Colonel Sir Benjamin Thompson ; then
colonel of horse and general aide-de-camp of the Elector Charles
Theodore, of Bavaria ; then major-general of cavalry, Privy Councilor
of State, and head of War Department of Bavaria ; then Count Rum-
ford of the Holy Roman Empire, and order of the White Eagle ; then
Military Dictator of Bavaria, with full governing powers during the
absence of the Elector ; then a private resident in Brompton Road, and
founder of the Royal Institution in Albemarle Street ; then a Parisian
citoyen, the husband of the *' Goddess of Reason," the widow of La-
voisier ; but above all a practical and scientific cook, whose exploits in
economic cookery are still but very imperfectly appreciated, though
