THE CHEMISTRY OF COOKERY. 221
Reflecting on this subject, I have been struck with a curious fact
that has hitherto escaped notice, viz., that, in the country which over
all others combines a very large population with a very small allow-
ance of cleanliness, the ordinary drink of the people is boiled water
flavored by an infusion of leaves. These people, the Chinese, seem, in
fact, to have been the inventors of boiled- water beverages. Judging
from travelers' accounts of the state of the rivers, rivulets, and general
drainage and irrigation arrangements of China, its population could
scarcely have reached its present density if Chinamen were drinkers
of raw instead of cooked water.
III. — COOKING UNDEK WATER.
Next to the boiling of water for its own sake, as treated in my last,
comes the boiling of water as a medium for the cooking of other things.
Here, at the outset, I have to correct an error of language Avhich, as
too often happens, leads by continual suggestion to false ideas. "When
we speak of " boiled beef," " boiled mutton," " boiled eggs," " boiled
potatoes," we talk nonsense ; we are not merely using an elliptical ex-
pression, as when we say " the kettle boils," which we all understand to
mean the contents of the kettle, but we are expounding a false theory
of what has happened to the beef, etc. — as false as though we should
describe the material of the kettle that has held boiling water as boiled
copper or boiled iron. No boiling of the food takes place in any such
cases as the above-named — it is merely heated by immersion in boiling
water ; the changes that actually take place in the food are essentially
different from those of ebullition. Even the water contained in the
meat is not boiled in ordinary cases, as its boiling-point is higher
than that of the surrounding water, owing to the salts it holds in
solution.
Thus, as a matter of chemical fact, a " boiled leg of mutton " is one
that has been cooked, but not boiled ; while a roasted leg of mutton is
one that has been partially boiled. Much of the constituent water of
flesh is boiled out, fairly driven away as vapor during roasting or
baking, and the fat on its surface is also boiled, and, more or less, dis-
sociated into its chemical elements, carbon and water, as shown by the
browning, due to the separated carbon.
As I shall presently show, this verbal explanation is no mere verbal
quibble, but it involves important practical applications. An enormous
waste of precious fuel is perpetrated every day, throughout the whole
length and breadth of Britain and other countries where English cook-
ery prevails, on account of the almost universal ignorance of the phi-
losophy of the so-called boiling of food.
"When it is once fairly understood that the meat is not to be boiled,
but is merely to be warmed by immersion in water raised to a maxi-
mum temperature of 212°, and when it is further understood that water
can not (under ordinary atmospheric pressure) be raised to a higher
