2 24 ^^^^ POPULAR SCIEXCE MOXTHLY.
OUR MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE LAWS.
By GORDON A. STEWAET.
THE worst of our social evils, personal wrongs, and political sins
arise from the ununiforni operation of our marriage and divorce
laws. The loose manner iu which a contract of marriage may be en-
tered into and the reckless facility with which a marriage contract
may be dissolved are a disgrace to our high civilization and professed
Christianity. However learned commentators and jurists may differ
as to the correct definition of marriage, it is not only a partially exe-
cuted agreement to marry, but is a contract continuous in its obliga-
tions governing the status of the parties, until it is dissolved by the
death of one of the parties, or by one of them obtaining a divorce for
some wrongful or invalidating act committed by the other.
In nearly all of the States marriage is recognized as a civil contract
only, and has no ecclesiastical obligation so far as society and the State
ai*e concerned. The contracting parties are subjects of the law. The
person performing the ceremony by which the contract is publicly
acknowledged by the parties, whether he be magistrate, parson, or
layman, becomes a civil officer by authority of the law for that occa-
sion. Generally, however, the marriage contract is solemnized by a
clergyman, agreeably to the rules and regulations of the religious de-
nomination to which he belongs, and for which one or the other of the
parties has a religious attachment or preference ; or, because a reli-
gious solemnization in church gives a better opportunity to gratify the
desire for social rivalry and display. But perhaps most persons,
especially when young and looking forward to a long future of con-
nubial happiness, consider the act of marriage more as a religious
rite than a civil contract, and hence the forms and ceremonies of the
Church accord more agreeably with the sentiment of love and affection
than the business-like and informal words of the magistrate, who, in
response to their acknowledgment of intention to marry, simply pro-
nounces them man and wife. This sentiment, no doubt, is largely the
result of a lingering belief in marriage as a divine institution and a
sacrament of the Church, as taught when the ecclesiastical court had
exclusive jurisdiction of marriage and divorce. It is perhaps not until
later, not until they have become dissatisfied with the conditions of
the solemn obligation they had agreed to faithfully perform through
life, that they discover it is simply a civil contract that binds them,
and from which the law has generously provided unlimited means of
escape.
Lawful marriage is the basis of the family relation, and the family
relation is the fundamental principle of association upon which the
superstructure of society and the State is built. And yet there is no
