OUR MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE LAWS. 225
contract of tbe value of twenty dollars, subject to the verdict of a jury
or the decision of a court, that is so easily avoided and so shamefully
dissolved as the contract of marriage. The facts show that the law
and the courts enforce the obligations of a delinquent debtor with
more severity than the obligations of this contract upon which the
happiness of the family, the morality of society, and the perpetuity of
the State depend. The marriage contract is of a higher inspiration,
and has a broader obligation, than a mere contract for the payment of
money, or for the transfer of pi'operty, or for co-operation in business.
It is one in which society is more deeply interested, one by which
society is more seriously affected ; and society has the right to demand
that the mutual obligations shall be faithfully kept and lawfully en-
forced.
This lack of uniformity in the laws, both in their formulation and
execution, is the result of the diversity of sources from which they ema-
nate. Each State is its own authority, and determines for itself the con-
ditions upon which the marriage relation of its people may be entered
into or dissolved ; and, perhaps, the social and moral sentiment of the
people of a State can not be more equitably determined than by observ-
ing the character and use of its laws governing marriage and divorce ;
forthe various degrees of restriction and laxity in marriage and divorce
have marked the progress and decline of all peoples and nations ever
since the days when Adam and Eve went out of paradise and Moses
wrote the law on Mount Sinai. Several States still retain upon their
statute-books the common-law prohibition of marriage between per-
sons related by consanguinity, or affinity, nearer than the third degree ;
while other States have progressed to that degree of liberality on the
road to individual freedom and universal happiness which permits a
person to marry, if not his grandmother, at least the daughter of his
wife by a former husband. So we find that while two persons within
certain degrees of relationship may lawfully marry in one State, they
are prohibited from marrying by the laws of another State ; and that
while a marriage between certain persons is voidable only in one State,
it is absolutely void under a similar law in another State.
It would be interesting to review at length the marriage and divorce
laws of the several States, and note their want of uniform operation ;
but, for the purposes of this article, which must be brief, I shall con-
fine myself to a comparative notice of the laws of two or three States
only. In Ohio, " male persons of the age of eighteen years, and female
persons of the age of sixteen years, not nearer kin than second-cousins,
and not having a husband or wife living, may be joined in marriage,"
provided that if the male person is under the age of twenty-one, and
the female person, is under the age of eighteen, they shall first obtain
the consent of their parents, respectively. The marriage may be sol-
emnized by an ordained minister of any religious congregation who
has first obtained a license authorizing him to solemnize marriages ; or
VOL. XXIII. — 15
