2 26 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
by a justice of the peace in his county ; or by the several religious
societies agreeably to the rules and regulations of their respective
churches. If the parties are married by the rules of any church, notice
of the marriage must first be published in the presence of the congre-
gation on two separate days of worship, the first notice to be at least
ten days previous to such marriage, and in the county in which the
female resides. And, in order that record evidence of a marriage may
always exist, a license to marry must first be obtained from the probate
court before the marriage can be legally solemnized ; and a certificate
of such marriage, signed by the minister or justice of the peace sol-
emnizing the same, must be filed by the person so oflSiciating with the
court where the license issued. This certificate must be filed with the
court within three months from date of marriage, under a penalty of
fifty dollars fine for neglect to do so, and the court must make a record
of the certificate of marriage under a like penalty. These last pro-
visions do not apply to parties who are married by the rules of any
church.
In New York, marriage, so far as its validity in law is concerned,
is expressly declared to be a civil contract, to which the consent of the
parties, who must be capable in law of contracting, is essential. Mar-
riage between parents and children, and grandparents and grand-
children, of every degree, and between brothers and sisters of the half
or whole blood, are declared to be incestuous and absolutely void. So
a second or other subsequent man'iage contracted by any person dur-
ing the lifetime of any former husband or wife of such person, is abso-
lutely void, unless the marriage of such former husband or wife shall
have been annulled for some cause other than the adultery of such per-
son, or unless such former husband or wife shall have been finally
sentenced to imprisonment for life. But for causes existing at the
time of marriage, where either of the parties is incapable of contract-
ing for want of age or understanding, or from physical causes, or where
consent has been obtained through force or fraud, the marriage is void
only from the time its nullity shall be declared by a court of competent
authority. So, if any person, whose husband or wife shall have absented
himself or herself for the space of five consecutive years without being
known to such person to be living during that time, shall marry dur-
ing the lifetime of such absent husband or wife, the marriage shall be
void only from the time its nullity is pronounced by a court of compe-
tent authority. The law authorizing a legal separation, or a limited
divorce, in New York, has been repealed, and the only causes arising
after marriage for which a legal marriage can be annulled are adultery
and imprisonment for life ; and a pardon to the person sentenced to
imprisonment for life will not restore to him or her the rights of a pre-
vious marriage. In a case of divorce for adultery the complainant
may marry again during the life of the defendant ; but no defendant
convicted of adultery can marry again until the death of the complain-
