OUR MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE LAWS. 229
although the statute governing the transfer had not been complied
with.
In these three States, and in most of the States, the laws regu-
lating the solemnization of marriages except from their general pro-
visions certain religious denominations. This exception was an early-
spasm of religious toleration, entirely out of date in this tolerant
age. Marriage being a civil contract between two persons, its con-
ditions should be performed by them, of whatever religious faith
they may be, the same as they would have to perform the conditions
of any other civil contract or legal obligation. The exception is anti-
constitutional, in establishing a religious distinction even as against
the Catholic Church, which still holds marriage as a divine institution,
and its celebration a sacrament of the Church. No such exception is
made in the execution of any other legal contract or in favor of other
religious sects, and no hardship or violation of conscience or religious
belief could follow the abolition of this incongruity. As members of
Bociety and citizens of the State, all persons should conform to the
same civil law, leaving the individual parties free to supplement the
civil ceremony with a religious one, according to the rules of the re-
ligious society to which they belong.
There is a peculiarity in the marriage contract, that does not enter
into any other contract in the ordinary commercial transactions of life.
While others may be, it must be between one man and one woman
only. The contract does not end with the marriage ceremony ; its
conditions are for life, and continue until dissolved by death or di-
vorce. Once it might have been considered to end with the solemni-
zation, and to take on the form of a status, but that was in those days
when on the " nuptial day " all the identity of the woman, her person-
ality, individuality, right of property, and control of offspring, were
merged in the man, and he became her lord and master, leaving her
without the right of appeal to any civil authority for the redress of
any wTong. But the barbarism of those days is fading away, and
the light of a new civilization is dawning, though still confused here
and there by old forms and prejudices. When woman shall stand
before the law equal with man in all her personal, property, and polit-
ical rights, then indeed will marriage be a contract sanctioned by na-
ture and approved by God. All the instincts of nature favor mar-
riage, all the passions, desires, and affections of the human heart enter
into it, and the highest development of the human race depends upon
it. Yet, as a part of the contract, the law of divorce enters in ; and,
while it is over-rigid in some States, in others its laxity almost neu-
tralizes the fundamental idea of the continuance and perpetuity of the
marriage obligation.
As a relic of that " peculiar institution," Avith its concubinal prac-
tice between whites and blacks. South Carolina preserves its old laws
which allow no cause for divorce. In New York there is one cause
