OUR MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE LAWS. 231
Althougli New York lias experimented with both a prohibitory and
a liberal policy of divorce, long years of experience have demonstrated
that the peace and happiness of the family and the purity of public
morals are best subserved by a restrictive policy ; yet no State in the
Union can boast of a larger personal freedom of its citizens, or a higher
standard of intelligence and morality. The percentage of illiteracy is
comparatively small ; woman is held in the highest esteem, and on all
school questions has the equal right of suffrage ; she is better protected
in her personal and property rights than elsewhere ; and, so far as the
domestic relations are concerned, no State has a happier or a moro con-
tented people. The rural population is prosperous and happy in its
Arcadian simplicity ; and even in the great commercial metropolis of
the State, where the opportunity for temptation and crime, corruption,
and luxurious licentiousness, is so great, the intelligence and morals of
the people are equal to those of any city in the world. Notwithstand-
ing this, the laws of other States and the decisions of the courts make
marriage in New York, as elsewhere, a contract subject to the caprice
or dishonesty of either of the parties.
Parties who legally marry know the conditions of the contract into
which they have entered. In New York they know that, as a part of
the contract, so long as they reside in the State there is one cause only,
except death, for its dissolution. And so long as one of the parties to
a marriage continues to reside in the State in which the contract was
made, and under the protection of its laws, no other State, into which
the other party may have removed for the purpose of obtaining a di-
vorce, should assume jurisdiction of the contract, or change its terms,
so as to annul it for any other cause than that which existed in the
State where the contract was made, and then only after obtaining per-
sonal service upon the non-resident defendant. It is questionable, as a
matter of individual right, whether any State into which the parties
may have mutually agreed to remove should assume jurisdiction to
set aside the marriage contract for any other cause than could be as-
signed in the State in which the contract was made. Certainly one
State should respect the laws of another, as it would have its own laws
respected by the other. But the question of jurisdiction and domicile
in interstate divorce has perplexed the courts almost endlessly. The
general principle of law that the domicile of the wife remains with or
follows the husband is limited by the reasons on which it rests, and
must be varied according to the circumstances of the case, so that for
the purpose of divorce each party is said to have a separate domicile.
When one of the parties removes into another State for the purpose
of divorce, and, after gaining a legal residence there, commences pro-
ceedings for divorce, how can the court, if marriage is a contract, get
personal service upon the defendant so as to affect the rights of this
non-resident party ? Or, if marriage is a status, and the court takes
cognizance only of the condition of the plaintiff, it, the condition of
