OUR MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE LAWS. 233
its own, determine the relation of a citizen of another State to its laws?
How can it impair the obligation of a contract or annul a status be-
tween parties, over one of whom it has no jurisdiction, and at the same
time give " full faith and credit " to the " jjublic acts " of the other
State ?
That Congress has the constitutional power to pass a law estab-
lishing uniform rules of marriage and divorce in the District of Co-
lumbia and all the Territories of the United States is beyond question.
That it has not the power to pass a law establishing such rules through-
out the United States can only be asserted. " Congress shall have
power to establish a uniform rule of naturalization and uniform laics
on the subject of hcmkrujitcies throughout the United States " ; and
who can conceive of a person being more of a bankrupt in home and
fortune than one who has a faithless wife or husband ? Certainly in
that view, with the marriage declared a contract within the meaning
of the Constitution and its violation a species of bankruptcy, a general
bankrupt law might give the courts jurisdiction to relieve a faithful
husband or dutiful wife of the onerous conditions of a contract by the
assignment of such assets as a worthless wife or husband to a generous
and forgiving public.
There is another mode by which uniformity in the marriage and
divorce laws of the States might be attained, whether the opinions of
the judiciary could ever be harmonized or not, and that without im-
pinging on the delicate question of State rights. Let Congress appoint
commissioners to prepare a code of marriage and divorce laws for the
District of Columbia and Territories of the United States, and invite
each of the States to appoint a commissioner in its own behalf to unite
with the commissioners appointed by Congress in forming a commis-
sion to codify and prepare a system of marriage and divorce, which,
when passed by Congress and adopted by the several States, or any of
them, shall have a uniform operation in the District of Columbia and
Territories, and throughout the United States, or in those States adopt-
ing it. That there is an urgent necessity for Congress alone, or for
Congress and the States united, to move earnestly in this matter, is
not only seen in the ineffectual efforts of Congress every year to sup-
press polygamy, which is fast spreading from Utah into the other
Territories, but also in an almost similar condition of society in the
States, brought about by the ununiform laws and the conflicting de-
cisions of the courts.
It is discreditable to civilization not to reverse a decision or prin-
ciple of law, though of long standing, which is more evil in its con-
tinuance than inconvenient in its reversal or repeal. A thing which
has outlived its influence for good, or a principle that has no longer an
application to the progress of the age, in religion or law, should be
abandoned. The spirit of the Constitution and the principles of inter-
state jurisdiction adjudicated under it have been insidiously directed,
