OUR MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE LAWS. 235
Southern — such a marriage is declared absolutely void, and the parties
living together under it are punishable by imprisonment in the peni-
tentiary for " lascivious cohabitation." In these States the interna-
tional and interstate rule, that a marriage legally contracted in one
State is valid in every other State, is outraged and defied ; and parties
lawfully married in a State which does not prohibit the intermarriage
of white and colored persons removing into these States are not recog-
nized as husband and wife, but are made subjects of a law punishing
fornication and adultery.
Before emancipation there was no legal marriage between slaves —
a slave not being competent to enter into a contract — so that the rela-
tion of husband and wife depended wholly upon the will and caprice
of the master. And the children of such marriages were neither legiti-
mate nor illegitimate, coming into the world independent of all mar-
riage laws. For this reason it would have been illogical in those States
to have made it a penal offense for a white man and a slave woman,
either through love, lustful passion, or desire of increase of property,
to beget children of mixed white and colored blood, though the large
numbers of persons of mixed color in the Southern States show that
it was practiced to a profitable degree. But since the conditions of
slavery have ceased to exist, and the freedmen have become citizens
of the United States, endowed by the Constitution with all the polit-
ical and civil rights enjoyed by their former masters, including the
natural right of man-iage, the reasons upon which the former black
laws were based can have no application to the present social rights
of these people. Still, the prejudice, deeply rooted in the interest of
slavery, exists ; and the cases recently before the Supreme Court under
the civil-rights law, to test the constitutionality of the State laws pun-
ishing marriage between white and colored persons, have been decided
on collateral issues in favor of that prejudice. Thus the laws of sev-
eral States and the ruling of the highest tribunal in the land inten-upt
the natural law of selection and development. But the question is not
at rest ; it must be met — met as it now is, and as it will appear in the
future. And if those States and the courts will not respond to the de-
mands of the higlier civilization of the age which recognizes this fun-
damental social law. Congress should clearly recognize and define the
equal married rights of the citizens of the United States in the District
of Columbia and the Territories, without regard to "race, color, or
previous condition of servitude."
According to the last census, the population of the United States is
reported at fifty millions, in round numbers. The report is very exact
in giving the age, sex, and place of birth of each individual, native
and foreign, and much other information valuable to the student of
ethnology and the migration of peoples. But it is neglectful of one of
the most important questions of races. It divides the population into
two races, " white " and " colored," giving the number of the former
