240 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
fixed star or group of stars. Each object in the series differs but
slightly from the object just before it and just after it. It seemed to
llerschel that he was thus able to view the actual changes by which
masses of phosphorescent or glowing vapor became actually condensed
down into stars. The condensation of a nebula could be followed in
the same manner as we can study the growth of the trees in a forest
by comparing the trees of various ages which the forest contains at the
same time. In attempting to pronounce upon the positive evidence
available in the discussion of Herschel's theory, we encounter a well-
kno^\Ti difficulty. To establish this theory, it would be necessary to
watch the actual condensation of one single nebula from the primitive
gaseous condition down to the stellar points. It may easily be con-
ceived that such a process would require a vast lapse of time, perhaps
enormously greater than ihe period between the invention of the tele-
scope and the present moment. It may at all events be confidently
asserted that the condensation of a nebula into a star is a process
which has never been witnessed. "Whether any stages in that process
can be said to have been witnessed is a different matter, on which it is
not easy to speak with precision. Drawings of the same nebula, made
at different dates, often exhibit great discrepancies. In comparing
these drawings, it must be remembered that a nebula is an object usu-
ally devoid of distinct outline, and varying greatly in appearance with
different telescopic apertures. Take, for instance, the very splendid
nebula in Orion, which is one of the most glorious objects that can be
seen in a telescope. There can be no doubt that the drawings made
at different times do exhibit most marked differences. Indeed, the
differences are sometimes so great that it is hard to believe that the
same object is depicted. It is well to look also at drawings made of
the same object at the same time, but by different obsei'vers and with
different telescopes. Where we find contemporary drawings at va-
riance — and they are often widely at variance — it seems hard to draw
any conclusion from drawings as to the presence or the absence of
change in the shape of the nebula.
There are, however, good grounds for believing that nebulae really
do undergo some changes, at least as regards brightness ; but whether
these changes are such as Herschel's theory would seem to require is
quite another question. Perhaps the best authenticated instance is
that of the variable nebula in the constellation of Taurus, discovered
by Afr. Hind in 18.52. At the time of its discovery this object was a
small nebula about one minute in diameter, with a central condensa-
tion of light. D'Arrest, the distinguished astronomer of Copenhagen,
found, in 18G1, that this nebula had vanished. On the 29th of De-
cember, 18G1, the nebula was again seen in the powerful refractor at
Pulkova, but, on December 12, 1863, Mr. Hind failed to detect the
nebula with the telescope by which it had been originally discovered.
This instrument had, however, only half the aperture of the Pulkova
