THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTROXOMY. 241
telescope. In 1868, O, Struve, observing at Pulkova, detected another
nebulous spot in the vicinity of the place of the missing object, but
this has also now vanished. Struve does not, however, consider that
the nebula of 1868 is distinct from Hind's nebula, but he says :
What I see is certainly the variable nebula itself, only in altered brightness
and spread over a larger space. Some traces of nebulosity are still to be seen
exactly on the spot where Hind and D'Arrest placed the variable nebula. It is
a remarkable circumstance that this nebula is in the vicinity of a variable star,
which changes somewhat irregularly from the ninth to the twelfth niaj^nitude.
At the time of the discovery, in 1801, both the star uud the nebula were brighter
than they have since become.
This is the best authenticated history of observed change in any
nebula. It must be admitted that the changes are such as would not
be expected if Ilersehel's theory were universally true.
Another remarkable occurrence in modern astronomy may be cited
as having some bearing on the question as to the actual evidence for
or against Ilerschers theory. On November 24, 1876, Dr. Schmidt
noticed a new star of the third magnitude, in the constellation Cygnus,
The discoverer was confident that no corresponding object existed on
the evening of the 20th of November. The brilliancy of the new star
gradually declined, until, on the 13th of December, Mr. Hind found
it of the sixth magnitude. The spectrum of this star was carefully
studied by many obseiwers, and it exhibited several bright lines, which
indicated that the star differed from other stars by the possession of
vast masses of glowing gaseous material. This star was observed by
Dr. Copeland, at the Earl of Crawford's observatory, on September
2, 1877. It was then below the tenth magnitude, and of a decidedly
bluish tint. Viewed throtigh the spectroscope, the light of this star
was almost completely monochromatic, and appeared to be indistin-
guishable from that which is often found to come from nebulae. Dr.
Copeland thus concludes :
Bearing in mind the history of this star from the time of its discovery by
Schmidt, it would seem certain that we have an instance before us in which a
star has changed into a planetary nebula of small angular diameter. At least it
may be safely affirmed that no astronomer, discovering the object in its present
state, would, after viewing it through a prism, hesitate to pronounce as to its
present nebulous character.
It should, however, be added that Professor Pickering has since found
slight traces of a continuous spectrum, but the object has now become
so extremely faint that such observations are very difiicult. This re-
markable history might be adduced if we wished to procure evidence
of the conversion of stars into nebuln?, but for the nebular theory we
require evidence of the conversion of nebula? into stars.
Care must be taken not to exaggerate the inferences to be drawn
from the two instances I have quoted, viz., the variable nebula in
Taurus and the new star in Cygnus. I think it more likely that both of
VOL. xxin. — 16
