244 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MOXTHLY.
orbits of the planets are to some extent affected. The mutual actions
of the planets present many problems of the highest interest, and, it
should be added, of the greatest difficulty. Many of these difficulties
have been overcome. It is the great glory of the Freneh mathema-
ticians to have invented the methods by -which the nature of the solar
system could be studied. The results at which they arrived are not a
little remarkable. They have computed how much the planets act and
react upon each other, and they have shown that in consequence of
these actions the orbit of each planet gradually changes its shape and
its position. But the crowning feature of these discoveries is the
demonstration that these changes in the orbits of the planets are all
periodic. The orbits may fluctuate, but those fluctuations are confined
within very narrow limits. In the course of ages the system gradually
becomes deformed, but it will gradually return again to its original po-
sition, and again dej)art therefrom. These changes are comparatively
so small that our system may be regarded as substantially the same
even when its fluctuations have attained their greatest amplitude.
These splendid discoveries are founded upon the actual circumstances
of the system, as we see that system to be constituted. Take, for in-
stance, the eccentricities of the orbits of the planets around the sun.
Those eccentricities can never change much ; they are now small quan-
tities, and small quantities those eccentricities must forever remain.
The proof of this remarkable theorem partly depends upon the fact
that the planets are all revolving around the sun in the same direction.
If one of the planets we have named were revolving in an opposite
direction to the rest, the mathematical theory would break down. "SVe
would have no guarantee that the eccentricities would forever remain
small as they are at present. In a similar manner, the planets all move
in orbits whose planes are inclined to each other at very small angles.
The positions of those planes fluctuate, but these fluctuations are con-
fined within very narrow limits. The proof of this theorem, like the
proof of the corresponding theorem about the eccentricities, depends
upon the actual conditions of the planetary system as we find it. If
one of the planets were to be stopped, turned round, and started off
again in the opposite direction, our guarantee for the preservation of
the planes would be gone. It therefore follows that, if the system is
to be permanently maintained, all the planets must revolve in the same
direction.
In this connection it is impossible not to notice the peculiar cir-
cumstances presented by the comets. By a sort of convention, the
planets have adopted, or, at all events, they possess, movements which
fulfill the conditions necessary if the planets are to live and let live ;
but the comets do not obey any of the conditions which are imposed
by the planetary convention. The orbits of the comets are not nearly
circles. They are sometimes ellipses with a very high degree of ec-
centricity ; they are often so very eccentric that we are uiiable to dis-
