THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY. 245
tinguish the parts of their orbits which we see from actual parabolas.
Nor do the directions in which the comets move exhibit any uniform-
ity ; some move round the sun in one direction, some move in the op-
posite direction. Even the planes which contain the orbits of the
comets are totally different from each other. Instead of being in-
clined at oidy a very few degrees to their mean position, the planes of
the comets hardly follow any common law ; they are inclined at all
sorts of directions. In no respect do the comets obey those princi-
ples which are necessary to prevent constitutional disorder in the plan-
etary system. The consequences of this are obvious, and unfortunate
in the highest degree — for the comets. A comet possesses no secu-
rity for the undisturbed enjoyment of its orbit. Not to mention the
risk of actual collision with the planets, there are other ways in which
the path of a comet may experience enormously great changes by the
disturbances which the planets are capable of producing. How is it
that the system has been able to tolerate the vagaries of comets for
so many ages '? Solely because the comets, though capable of suffer-
ing from perturbations, are practically incapable of producing any
perturbations on the planets. The efficiency of a body in producing
perturbations depends upon the mass of the body. Now, all we have
hitherto seen with regard to comets tends to show that the masses of
comets are extremely small. Attempts have been made to measure
the masses of comets. Those attempts have always failed. They
have failed because the scales in which we have attempted to weigh
the comets have been too coarse to weigh anything of the almost spir-
itual texture of a comet. It is unnecessary to go as far as some have
done, and to say that the weight of a large comet may be only a few
pounds or a few ounces. It might be more reasonable to suppose that
the weight of a large comet was thousands of tons, though even thou-
sands of tons would be far too small a weight to admit of being meas-
ured by the very coarse balance which is at our disposal.
The enduring stability of the planetary system is thus seen to be
compatible with the existence of comets solely because comets fulfill
the condition of being almost imponderable in comparison with the
mighty masses of the planetary system. The very existence of our
})lanetary system is a proof of the doctrine that the masses of the
comets are but small. Indeed, to those who will duly weigh the mat-
ter, it will probably appear that this negative evidence as to the mass
of the comets is more satisfactory than the results of any of the more
direct attempts to place the comets in the weighing-scales. If we re-
state the circumstances of the solar system, and if we include the com-
ets in our view, it will appear how seriously the existence of the com-
ets affects the validity of the argument in favor of the nebular
hypothesis which is derived from the uniformity in the directions
of the planetary movements. If we include the whole host of minor
planets, we have for the population of the solar system something
