246 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
under throe hundred planets, and an enormous multitude of comets.
It will probably not bo an overestimate if -sve suppose that the com-
ets are ton times as numerous as the i)l:inots. The case, then, stands
thus : The solar system consists of some thousands of different bod-
ies ; these bodies move in orbits of the most varied degrees of eccen-
tricity ; they have no common direction ; their planes are situated in
all conceivable positions, save only that each of these planes must pass
through the sun. Stated in this way, the present condition of the
solar system is surely no argument for the nebular theory. It might
rather be said that it is inconceivable on the nebular theory how a
system of this form could be constructed at all. Nine tenths of the
bodies in the solar system do not exhibit movements which would
suggest that they were produced from a nebula : the remaining tenth
do no doubt exhibit movements which seem to admit of exi)lanation
by the nebular theory ; but, had that tenth not obeyed the group of
laws referred to, they would not now be there to tell the tale. The
planetary system now lives solely because it was an organism fitted
for sunival. It is often alleged that the comets are not indigenous
to the solar system. It has been supposed that the comets have been
imported from other systems. It has also been urged with consider-
able probability that perhaps many comets may have had their origin
in our sun and have been actually ejected therefrom. I do not now
attempt to enter into the discussion of these views, which are at pres-
ent problematical ; let me pass from this part of the subject, with the re-
mark that, until the nature and origin of comets be better understood,
it wnll be impossible to appraise with accuracy the value of the argu-
ment for the nebular hypothesis which has been based on the uniform-
ity of the directions in which the planets revolve around the sun.
There are, however, other circumstances in the solar system which
admit of explanation by the nebular theory. It is a remarkable fact
that the Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn are all known to rotate
upon their axes in the same direction as their revolutions around the
sun. The nebular theory offers an explanation of this circumstance.
It docs not appear that this common rotation of the planets is abso-
lutely necessary for the stability of the system. Should it further be
proved that there is no other agency at work which would force the
planets to rotate in the same direction, then it must be admitted that
the nebular theory receives very substantial support.
There is another way in which we can examine the evidence on
behalf of the nebular hypothesis. There are certain actions going on
at present in the solar system ; and by reasoning backward from
these present artions we are led to believe that in extremely early
times the condition of things may have resembled that which is sup-
posed by the nebular hypothesis. Let us begin with the consideration
of our sun, which is, as we know, daily radiating off light and heat
into space. This heat is poured off in all directions ; a small portion
