2 5© THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MOXTHLY.
living things, which was almost universal five-and-twenty years ago,
was only equaled in arbitrariness, artificiality, and absurdity by the
celebrated theory of Epicycles, which caused Alfonso of Castile to
exclaim, *' If God had asked my advice when he created the world, I
should have managed things much better."
" Afflavit Dancinhis et dissipata est,'''' would, alluding to the above-
mentioned theory, be a fitting inscription for a medal in honor of the
*' Origin of Species," For now all things were seen to be due to the
quiet development of a few simple germs ; graduated days of creation
gave place to one day on which matter in motion was created ; and or-
ganic suitability was replaced by a mechanical process, for as such we
may look on natural selection, and now for the first time man took
his proper place at the head of his brethren.
We may compare Copernicus's student-days at Bologna with Dar-
win's voyage in the Ceagle, and his retired life at Frauenburg with
Darwin's in his Kentish home, up to the time when the appearance of
Mr. "Wallace's work caused him to break his long silence. Here, hap-
pily for Darwin, the parallel ends. Many circumstances combined in
Darwin's case to render his task easier and insure his ultimate tri-
umph. Botany and zoology, morphology, the theory of evolution, and
the study of the geographical distribution of plants and animals, had
advanced far enough to allow of general conclusions being drawn from
them ; Lyell's sound sense had freed geology from the hyj^otheses
which disfigured it, and introduced the idea of uniformity into science.
The doctrine of the conservation of energy had been put on a new
basis, and extended so that in combination with astronomical observa-
tion it gave rise to entirely new views of the history and duration of
the universe. The doctrine of vital energy had been proved to be un-
tenable on closer investigation. An unusually dry season had some
years earlier led to the discovery of the so-called lake-dwellings in the
bed of one of the Swiss lakes, whereby prehistoric research was quickly
extended and developed. Though many links are still missing, we
may fairly consider the knowledge of the existence of primeval man
as the beorinninsr of the lonij-looked-for connection between him and
the anthropoids on the one hand, and between them both and their
common progenitors on the other. In a word, the time had come for
the publication of the " Descent of Man " ; that is why an opinion on
the nature of man, which differs from all former ones fully as much
as the system of Copernicus, of which it is the complement, differs
from that of Ptolemy, found such ready and general acceptance.
How different was the fate of Copernicus ! *' Copernicus," says
Poggendorff, " is, and will ever remain, a brilliant star in the firma-
ment of science ; but he rose at a time when the horizon was almost
entirely obscured by the mists of ignorance. . . . The Ptolemaic sys-
tem was too ancient and too much venerated to be easily displaced."
Copernicus's teaching met with but scant appreciation for the first
