WHISTLING.
251
fifty years after its publication ; even Tyclio Brahe opposed it ; it can
therefore scarcely cause surprise that Luther rejected it, that Giordano
Bruno died at the stake for his advocacy of it, while the less steadfast
Galileo was forced to renounce it.
Notwithstanding the pessimism of our speculative philosophers,
who deny all progress because they contribute nothing toward it, Dar-
win's lot was hajipier than that of the great reformer of astronomy.
While Copernicus could only feast his eyes on the first printed copy
of his work as he lay on his death-bed, because he had not dared to
publish it sooner, although he had completed it some years before,
Darwin survived the appearance of his nearly a quarter of a century.
He witnessed the fierce struggles its appearance at first gave rise to ;
its ever-increasing acceptance and its final triumph, to which he, cheer-
ful and active to the last, greatly contributed by a long series of ad-
mirable works.
While the Holy Inquisition persecuted the followers of Copernicus
with fire and sword, Charles Darwin lies buried in Westminster Abbey
among his peers, Newton and Faraday.
WHISTLING.
By T. F. TIIISELTOX DYER.
IN whatever way regarded, either as a graceful accomplishment or as
the spontaneous expression of light-heartedness, whistling has in
our own and foreign countries generally attracted considerable atten-
tion. Why it should have been invested with so much superstitious
awe it is difficult to say, but it is a curious fact that the same antipa-
thy which it arouses among certain classes of our own countrymen
is found existing in the most distant parts of the earth, where, as yet,
civilization has made little or imperceptible progress. Thus Captain
Burton * tells us how the Arabs dislike to hear a person whistle, called
by them el sifr. Some maintain that the whistler's mouth is not to be
purified for forty days ; while, according to the explanation of others,
Satan touching a man's body causes him to produce, what they con-
sider, an offensive sound f The natives of the Tonga Islands, Poly-
nesia, hold it to be wrong to whistle, as this act is thought to be dis-
respectful to God.;]; In Iceland, the villagers have the same objection
to whistling, and so far do they carry their superstitious dread of it
that " if one swings about him a stick, whip, wand, or aught that
* "First Footsteps in East Africa," 1856, p. 142.
f Carl Engel, " Musical Myths and Facts," 1876, i, 91.
X "Mariner and Martin: An Account of the Natives of the Tonga Islands," 1818,
ii, 131.
