252 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MOXTHLY.
makes a whistling souml, he scares from him the Holy Ghost" ; while
other leelaiulers, who consider themselves free from superstitions,
cautiously give the advice : *' J)o it not ; for who knoweth what is in
the air?" However eccentric these phases of superstitious belief may
appear to us, yet it must not be forgotten that very similar notions pre-
vail at the present day, in this country. A correspondent of "Kotes
and Queries" (1879, tifth series, xii, 92), for instance, relates how one
day, after attempting in vain to get his dog to obey orders to come
into the house, his wife tried to coax it by whistling, when she was
suddenly interrupted by a servant, a Roman Catholic, who exclaimed
in the most piteous accents, " If you please, ma'am, don't whistle —
every time a woman whistles, the heart of the blessed Virgin bleeds ! "
In some districts of North Germany the villagers say that if one
whistles in the evening it makes the angels weep. Speaking, how-
ever, of ladies in connection with whistling, it is a wide-spread su-
perstition that it is at all times unlucky for them to whistle, which,
according to one legend, originated in the circumstance that, while the
nails for oiu- Lord's cross were being forged, a woman stood by and
whistled. Curiously enough, however, one very seldom hears any of
the fair sex indulging in this recreation, although there is no reason,
as it has been often pointed out, why they should not whistle with as
much facility as the opposite sex. One cause, perhaps, of the absence
of this custom among women may be, in a measure, due to the distor-
tion of the features which it occasions. Thus we know how Minerva
cast away, with an imprecation, the pipe, which afterward proved so
fatal to Marsyas, when she beheld in the water the disfigurement of
her face caused by her musical performance. There are numerous in-
stances on record, nevertheless, of ladies whistling at public entertain-
ments, and charming their audiences with the graceful ease with which
they performed such airs as "The Blue Bells of Scotland" or "The
Mocking-Bird." Indeed, not many years ago, at a grand provincial
concert, two sifters excited much admiration by the clever and artistic
way in which they whistled a duet.
Referring to whistling performances, Addison, in one of the earlier
numbers of the " Spectator," gives an amusing account of a contest,
where a jirize of a guinea was to be conferred on the successful com-
petitor who could not only whistle the best, but go through his tune
without laughing, and that in spite of the ludicrous antics of a certain
merry-andrew, whose special duty it was to try as far as possible to
discompose each of the competitors by making grimaces. On the oc-
casion in question, the competitors were an under-citizen, remarkable
for his wisdom — a plowman endued " with a very promising aspect of
inflexible stupidity" — and a footman, who, having captivated his audi-
ence by whistling " a Scotch tune and an Italian sonata," carried off
the prize. Strutt, in his " Sports and Pastimes," relates the remark-
able performance of a whistler, who, assuming the name of Rossignol,
