256 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MOXTHLY.
It has been suggested that the whistler is the green plover to which Sir
Walter Scott refers in " The Lady of the Lake," where he relates how —
" In the plover's shrilly strains
Tho signal whistle's heard again " —
its ominous shrill whistle which startles, with dreadful awe, the mid-
night traveler as he journeys along some lonely road, sounding far
more like a hunuin note than that of a bird. In illustration of this
view we may quote the following anecdote related by a correspondent
of " Notes and Queries " (fourth series, viii, 2G8), which, however, sup-
ports the popular theory of the birds in question being supernatural
beings : " One evening a few years ago, when crossing one of our Lan-
cashire moors in company with an intelligent old man, he was suddenly
startled by the whistling overhead of a covey of plovers. My com-
panion remarked that when a boy the old people considered such a cir-
cumstance a bad omen, ' as a person who heard the wandering Jews,'
as he called the plovers, ' was sure to be overtaken by some ill-luck.'
On questioning my friend about the name given to the birds, he said,
* There is a tradition that they contain the souls of those Jews who
assisted at the crucifixion, and in consequence were doomed to float in
the air forever.' "When he arrived at the foot of the moor, a coach
by which I had hoped to reach my destination had already starter^"
thereby causing me to continue my journey on foot. The old man
reminded me of the omen." To quote a further anecdote recorded by
another correspondent of the same journal, we are told how during a
thunder-storm which passed over the neighborhood of Kettering on
the evening of September 6, 1871 — on which occasion the lightning
was very vivid — an unusual spectacle was witnessed : immense flocks
of birds were flying about, uttering doleful, affrighted cries as they
passed over the locality, and for hours they kept up a continual whis-
tling like that made by sea-birds. *' The following day," adds the
writer, "as my servant was driving me to a neighboring village, this
phenomenon of the flight of birds became the subject of conversation,
and, on asking him M-hat birds he thought they were, he told me they
were what were called the ' Seven Whistlers,' and that whenever they
were heard it was considered a sign of some great calamity, and that
the last time he heard them was before the great Hartley Colliery ex-
plosion ; he had also been told by soldiers that if they heard them
they always expected a great slaughter would take place soon. Cu-
riously enough, on taking up the newspaper on the following morn-
ing, I saw headed in large letters, 'Terrible Colliery Explosion at
Wigan,' etc. This, I thought, would confirm my man's belief in the
" Seven Whistlers." Among the pieces of folk-lore connected with
whistling may be mentioned that of sailors whistling for a wind on a
calm day ; an expedient which they believe seldom fails. Thus Long-
fellow, in his " Golden Legend," speaks of this notion :
