264 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MOXTHLY.
his pon-in-law, Professor Dana, in that of Geology and Mineralogy.
The name of Silliman was given to both chairs.
Professor Silliman was still to continue a prominent figure before
the public, kept so by other events than those connected with science
and the affairs of the college. A few mouths after his resignation the
Kansas-Nebraska controversy rose to its height, and the Republican
party was bom amid the convulsions it excited. Professor Silliman
had always abhorred slavery, and he saw in these disputes great moral
issues, and the question of the equal rights of citizens of all the States
to settle in the Territories and defend themselves there. His active
interest in these matters, and the works by which he showed it, called
out bitter partisan reprobation, and this in turn invoked eloquent and
deserved eulogies of his i:)ure character and his attainments in science
from Senators Foster and Dixon in the United States Senate.
Professor Silliman kept even pace with the progress of science and
scientific ideas as they were developed through all his career, and let
his religious faith shine at the same time with a light of even brilliancy.
The possibility that there was a conflict or could be a conflict does not
seem even to have occurred to him. From his earliest college-days,
piety and a firm devotion in religious faith seem to have formed a
prominent side of his character ; yet he never hesitated to accept the
most startling discovery, when it proved deserving acceptance. " Now,
at eighty-two and a half years of age," he says, March 1, 18G2, " I can
. truly declare that, in the study and exhibition of science to my pupils
and my fellow-men, I have never forgotten to give all the honor and
glory to the infinite Creator, happy if I might be the honored inter-
preter of a portion of his works, and of the beautiful structure and
beneficent laws discovered therein by the labors of many illustrious
predecessors. For this I claim no merit. It is the result to which
right reason and sound philosophy, as well as religion, would naturally
lead. While I have never concealed my convictions on these subjects,
nor hesitated to declare them on all proper occasions, I have also
declared my belief that while natural religion stands as the basis of
revelation, consisting as it does of the facts and laws which form the
domain of science, science has never revealed a system of mercy com-
mensurate with the moral wants of man. In Nature, in God's creation,
we discover only laws — laws of undeviating strictness, and sure penal-
ties annexed for their violation. There is associated with natural laws
no system of mercy ; that dispensation is not revealed in Nature, and
is contained in the Scriptures alone. With the double view just pre-
sented, I feel that Science and Religion may walk hand in hand." " For
his own part," says Professor Fisher, from whose rich biography we
have drawn freely in the composition of this sketch, " he felt that the
Bible was a revelation from God. . . . Not being in the habit of
resorting to the Scriptures for information in physical science, he had
valued its early pages for the pure and sublime theism which they
