SKETCH OF PROF. BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, LL.D. 265
inculcated. . . . Nor did ho deem it necessary to suppose that the
author of Genesis, however instructed by a higher light, was himself
cognizant of the truths of geology, especially the truth of the great
antiquity of the globe, and the length of time consumed in the geologi-
cal changes." The idea of the length of geological time, as presented
in his lectures, was novel to the majority of his auditors, and evidently
shocked the prejudices of many of them, but he maintained it with
vigor, and generally left a good impression regarding it in the end.
Concerning the opponents of these ideas among the clergy, he wrote
to Dr. Hitchcock in 1837 : " I believe, wath you, if they were masters
of our subject, they would think as we do. Some of them are candid
and forbearing ; others find no insuperable difficulties ; others are
silent because they feel that they do not understand the matter ; but
a few are loud, confident, and uncharitable, while it is obvious they
know not whereof they afiirm, . . . but I see a strong purpose on the
part of some to hold no terms with geology, and to insist upon the lit-
eral and limited understanding of the history ; but they v/ill find them-
selves deserted, for the matter will in time come right." Of a particu-
lar attack on the geological theory he w^rote to Professor Plitchcock :
"You and I knoio that any attempt to impair geological evidence, or
to reconcile it with the popular view of time, must be abortive. No
matter how violent or bitter our assailant may be, doubtless he wall be
more so in proportion to his ignorance of geology and to the strength
of his prejudices."
Mrs. Silliman died in January, 1850, and Professor Silliman was
married a second time, in the following year, to Mrs. Sarah I. Webb,
of Woodstock, Connecticut. His death was apparently induced by a
neuralgic attack which he incurred from attending a meeting on be-
half of the Sanitary Commission, on the 13th of November, 1864.
He was confined to the house for several days, but seemed afterward
to recover, and made several calls in the neighborhood ; but on the
24:th — Thanksgiving-day — he died, instantly and without a struggle,
just as he had remarked that he might perhaps go out to church.
The disease from which he died was supposed to be an affection of the
heart.
Professor Silliman, says his biographer, Professor Fisher, would
have been the last to claim that he had that rare insisrht of genius
Avhich divines the secrets of Nature. His whole turn w^as more prac-
tical than speculative. " His perceptions w^ere quick, his judgment
sound, and all his mental operations were marked by good sense." His
qualities " well fitted him for his peculiar w^ork, and that was to collect
and diffuse scientific truth. . . . Nor is he wdthout merit as an in-
vestigator, although his distinction does not lie here. He was never
very careful to claim for himself the credit of scientific discovery. At
the same time, he took delight in bringing honor to the discoveries of
others." He prepared an edition of Henry's "Chemistry," w^hich
