266 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MOXTHLY.
appeared in 1808, with the modest announcement, "To which are
added notes by a professor in this country." While this work was
going through the press, a remarkable meteor passed over New Eng-
land (December, 1807), and exploded over Weston, Connecticut, where
several stones fell to the ground. lie visited the scene, and, besides
publishing a popular account of the facts in the " Connecticut Herald,"
made tliem the subject of a scientific examination and report before
the Philosophical Society of PhiladeljDhia, which was afterward re-
published in the " Memoirs " of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and
Sciences, and read aloud in the Philosophical Society of London, and
in the Academy of Sciences in Paris. His two visits to Europe (the
second one was in 1851) were followed by books of travels, both of
which were received with great satisfaction, while the earlier one
(1810) was highly commended, abroad as well as at home, as one of
the best works of its class. He Avas the first to obtain potassium in
this country, and the first to notice and record the effect of a powerful
battery in volatilizing carbon and transferring it from the positive to
the negative pole in a state of vapor. An account of his experiments
with the oxyhydrogen blow-pipe was published in the "Memoirs"
of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1813. He pub-
lished an account of a journey between Hartford and Quebec in 1820,
an edition of Bakewell's " Geology " in 1829, and a text-book on chem-
istry, in two volumes, in 1830. It was largely through his influence
that the Scientific School, started by the younger Professor Silliman in
1842, which was afterward endowed by the gentleman whose name it
bears as the Sheflield Scientific School, was adopted by the college as
one of its departments, in 1846 and 1847. Professor Silliman was for
many years in regular coiTespondence with the most eminent scientific
men of Europe, among whom may be named Berzelius, Robert Bake-
well, Humboldt, Carl Ritter, Lyell, Sir R. I. Murchison, Richard Owen,
Daubeny, Herschel, and Dr. Mantell. Some of these he never knew
personally, but was brought into communication with them through a
common interest in science.
