292 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
carried seven hundred miles more tlian a direct haul ! Surely one
would say that rates devised so loosely as to render Mr. Mack's plan
worth adopting discredit the officials responsible for them. Among
the remarkable cases of discrimination proved were the following :
Babbitt & Co., soap-manufacturers in New York, ascertained that
Crouse & Co., of Syracuse, had a special rate of eight cents per box
over the New York Central road ; Babbitt & Co. asked for a similar
reduction, which was refused, the rate charged them being twelve
cents to Syracuse, and this while their shipments over the New York
Central and Hudson River Railroads aggregated 1,346 tons in the
year preceding the session of the committee. In the winter of 1877
Jesse Hoyt & Co. and David Dows & Co., of New York, two large
grain firms, controlled the market by having obtained freights from
the West two and a half to five cents per hundred less than any of
their competitors. Their facilities for freight exceeded their purchas-
ing power, so they actually sublet their privileges to other houses in
the trade.
Towering far above all the wi'ongs under the head of discrimina-
tions ever perpetrated by railroads must be placed those committed in
favor of the Standard Oil Company. This monopoly, the strongest
of the kind in the world, controls the production of petroleum in the
United States, the second largest export of the country ; its relations
with the railroads are such that it obtains freighting at an immense
reduction from the terras charged to other customers of the roads. In
August, 1879, the Erie and New York Central roads charged the
Standard Company about ten cents for hauling a barrel of three hun-
dred and ninety pounds somewhat more than four hundred miles,
empty cars having to be hauled back over the lines. Contrast this
with the charge of forty-five cents for bringing a can of ten gallons
of milk weighing ninety pounds but sixty miles ! The proportions are
as 1 to 130. From January to October, 1879, the total shipments from
the oil-regions were 12,900,240 barrels. All shipments to the sea-
board might have borne one dollar more per barrel than they did, yet
all these millions of dollars were lost to the roads by a policy for
which their officers are accountable. The Central Pacific Railroad
Company is another against which discriminations of an unwarrant-
able character have been proved. While one shipper was charged 65
cents from Ogden to Toano, another shipper was charged $3.35 for the
same service. Vegetables were carried for different firms at rates as
various as 55 cents and $1.36. Through rates from New York to San
Francisco were to some shippers one half those charged to others.
The complainants take good ground when they declare that discrimi-
nations in favor of particular localities and firms create deficiencies
which shippers generally are taxed to equalize ; and, as mercantile
competition becomes yearly more severe, the unjust discriminations of
railroads unfairly discount the legitimate returns of business enter-
