RAILROAD PROBLEM I.V THE UNITED STATES. 293
prise, and hasten the undesirable tendency so plainly observable on all
sides, -whereby the great houses are constantly absorbing the trade of
the lesser ones, and the business of the country seems passing into
fewer and fewer hands.
As to the growth of subordinate railroad organizations, the quota-
tions of the stock-exchanges and the testimony of those interested in
investments not listed on the stock-exchanges prove the great lucra-
tiveness of express, fast-freight line, palace-car, elevating, and stock-
yard companies. It is a question whether these businesses can be suc-
cessfully carried on by railroad companies, but, if not, the corpora-
tions which give them birth should, if honestly managed, see to it that
they retain such interest as to participate in the large profits earned.
The chief danger attending these subsidiary organizations is, that the
railroad officials who take stock in them are interested in granting them
special privileges and good bargains. It is notorious that officers of
improfitable or bankrupt roads have grown rich by interests of the
kind mentioned.
The political power which the railroads can exert has repeatedly
attracted public attention. In New York State there are thirty
thousand railway employes, and the number of people indirectly in-
terested in the roads, and influenced by them, is perhaps equally large.
At the capital this voting element has opposed railway legislation, and
triumphantly. Parallel cases have occurred in other States, notably
in California and Illinois. As an example of what a railroad can do
in the way of controlling political action, let this quotation be given
from Jay Gould's testimony before the State Committee appointed in
1873 to investigate the management of the Erie Railway : "I do
not know how much I paid toward helping friendly men. We had
four States to look after, and we had to suit our politics to circum-
stances. In a Democratic district I was a Democrat, in a Republican
district I was a Republican, and in doubtful districts I was doubtful ;
but in every district, and at all times, I have always been an Erie
man." Other testimony proved that millions of dollars had been ex-
pended from the treasury of the Erie road in nominating, electing,
and corrupting Senators and members of Assembly. A new danger
certainly threatens public liberties in the light of these and many
kindred revelations, a danger which, perhaps, only counter-organiza-
tion by the people can successfully face. It was a notable day in
American history when the attorney of the Pennsylvania Railroad
threatened the Supreme Court of the State with the displeasure of
his clients if a verdict unfavorable to them were granted. When
President Vanderbilt, of the New York Central, was told about the
State Commissioners w'ho were to supervise railroad affairs, he said
that either the railroads would have to own the commissioners or the
commissioners the railroads. His later utterances with respect to pub-
lic criticism are tolerably familiar, and need not be here repeated.
