294 ^^^^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The complaints against railroad management, as far as they appear
to be just, show that the railroad prohlem may be divided into two
parts : First, how shareholders in railroads cau meet the dithculties of
joint-stock ownership, and control their property, so that it can be
made by all legitimate methods as jirofitable as possible. This means
the election of directors not as now, as a whole board by a single ma-
jority vote, but by a plan of minority representation, which will give
a voice in the directorate to every interest entitled to it. It means
including in the business such branches of traffic as are now delegated
to subsidiary companies, where this can be done advantageously ; and
the employing of officers of such high character and ability that
they shall be disjiosed to co-operate with one another to avoid ille-
gitimate and ruinous competition — officers able to establish tariffs
based on sound and consistent principles, and tariffs with which no
subordinate officer shall have power to tamper.
The second part of the railroad problem is how the general public,
while desirous of paying just remuneration to the roads, may protect
themselves against extortion and unjust and arbitrary discriminations.
This part of the subject raises the question of the constitutionality
and feasibility of State control, and brings up for discussion the vari-
ous influences which are spontaneously exerted within the railroad
business itself for its fair and equitable management. In the brief
sketch here presented of the chief complaints made agaiast the rail-
roads, it has been evident that some of the most serious of these com-
plaints arise from the inherent difficulties of joint-stock ownership, A
board of directors, provided with many proxies, can do pretty much
as they please, and the history of American roads shows that at times
they please to enrich themselves at the expense of those whom they
represent.
The shareholders in a large company are often a shifting, chaotic,
and helpless body, fortunate, indeed, when the directorate are suffi-
ciently honest and interested to administer affairs as they should. It
seems strange, too, that the management of railroads should so widely
permit an evil which causes so much just censure, namely, the cutting
of rates, by a staff of agents scattered throughout the whole country.
"When control by the owners of railroad property remains as imperfect
as it is in important particulars, it certainly seems an idle task to at-
tempt the State control of the largest and most complicated business
in existence.
The discussion of the railroad problem has given the public some
insight into the difficulties Avhich beset this business. There are now
in the United States some twelve hundred railroad companies, more
or less actively competing with one another. Between two great
cities like Xew York and Chicago, and between a great center of dis-
tribution like St. Louis and the Atlantic seaboard, there are many
competing routes, and the contest for business among these routes is
