THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 303
earnings, expenses, and profits, are all clearly tabulated, as the book-
keeping of all the companies is on a uniform and simple plan. The
tariffs of the roads are accessible to the commission, which is a bureau
where complaints of unjust discrimination can be lodged for inquiry
and for correction, as far as its powers admit. These powers the com-
mission believes might be advantageously extended, for the abstract
rights of the public without legal remedies are very apt to be disre-
garded. The authority of the board, however, extends to enforcing
for public safety the proper strength, breadth, and height of bridges
and tunnels, and such guarding of crossings and employment of me-
chanical appliances as experience suggests for adoption. All serious
and fatal accidents are investigated, and the " Annual Report " of the
board is a document which might serve as a model of a business-like
State paper.
A system of State commissioners patterned after the Massachusetts
board, with a national center of reference, is as much in the way of
legislation and public supervision as the leading railroad minds of the
country deem advisable at present. The chiefs of the greatest com-
mercial interest of America are quite prepared to accept legislation ; all
that they ask is that it be intelligent.
The public must not, however, expect too much from enactment,
for, with business morality as it is, why should ideal justice prevail in
railroad transactions more than in any other ? The fact which on the
broad stage of railroading is odious discrimination, less recognizably
pervades the smaller circles of trade where employes permit personal
interest or personal friendship to jolt the sacred scales. The view that
railroading is a special and public service, in a sense which entitles the
people to control it, is not a view which the facts of American politics
favor as yielding any practical suggestion.
THE EEMEDIES OF NATURE.
By FELIX L. OSWALD, M. D.
DYSPEPSIA.
BEFORE our ancestors colonized the colder latitudes of this planet,
the equatorial regions had for ages been inhabited by men or
man-like four-handers. The influence of this long abode in the tropics
still asserts itself in many peculiarities of our physical constitution.
We are but half acclimatized. Wolves are weather-proof ; bears and
badgers have managed to inure themselves to the miasma of their win-
ter dens : but the primates of the animal kingdom can neither endure
cold nor breathe impure air with perfect impunity ; and of most of our
civilized fellow-men, as well as of savages and all the species of our
