304 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
four-handed relatives who have thus far been wintered in northern me-
nageries, it may be said that the sensitiveness of their lungs contrasts
strangely with the tough vigor of their digestive organs.
In proportion to his size, a rhesus baboon eats more than a wolf ;
between morning and night a ceboo monkey will devour his own
weight in bananas, and, where the cravings of a naturally vigorous
stomach are increased by the stimulus of a cold climate, it seems almost
impossible to surfeit a savage with palatable food ; his appetite is the
faithful exponent of his peptic capacity, and before the fauces posi-
tively refuse to ingest there is little danger that the gastric apparatus
will fail to digest. Manifold and enormous must have been our sins
against the dietary code of Nature before we could succeed in making
indigestion a chronic disease. Deviations from the chemical standards
of her menu are insufficient to account for her wrath. With all their
unmistakable structural evidences of a frugivorous purpose, our digest-
ive organs have been permitted to adapt themselves, not only to a
carnivorous and herbivorous diet and various innutritive substances,
but to a considerable number of positive poisons. The Yakoots live
on fish and seal-blubber. The Shoshones stick to bull-beef. The
Namaqua Hottentots (who can not plead the exigencies of a cold cli-
mate) subsist almost entirely on venison. Several tribes of Northern
Brazil eat clay with comparative impunity. Our Saxon forefathers
added beer to venison and beef, and when they took to in-door life the
stomach protested only by proxy ; an utterly Avrong diet led, not to
dyspepsia, but to scrofulous affections. Excess in moderately un-
wholesome viands has to be carried to a monstrous degree before the
after-dinner torpor turns into a malignant disease ; the stomach of a
nomad seems to acquire a knack of assimilating a modicum of the in-
gesta and voiding the rest like so much innutritions stuff. Dr. Robert
Moffat saw a Bushman eat twenty pounds of hippopotamus-liver and
a bucketful of broiled marrow, besides handfuls of ground-nuts, parched
corn, and hackberries — all within twenty-four hours. In the provincial
capitals of Northern China, where banquets of forty courses are de
rigueur, convivial mandarins learn to devour a quantum of comestibles
that would torpify a boa-constrictor. Eating-matches of fourteen and
fifteen hours did not prevent Vitellius from acquiring distinction as a
wrestler.
Daily alcohol-fevers, combined with pepper and mustard inflamma-
tions, would ruin the stomach of an ostrich ; but in favor of the un-
feathered biped Nature accepts such vicarious atonements as gout and
dropsy. Thousands of crapulous Bavarian beer-swillers, who are
hardly able to walk, are still able to digest their food. In-door life
and want of exercise then added their quota of provocatives ; but, where
the lungs would have rebelled after seven protests, the stomach forgave
seventy-seven times. Mediaeval prelates, squires, and aldermen tried
in vain to exhaust the patience of the long-suffering organ.
