i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tain amount of testimony wbicli will be all that is left for posterity to
judge from, and in consulting this we may find material from which
to form a tolerably satisfactory conclusion.
it is an easy definition of the literature of the last century that
its tone was didactic. From the " Spectator " to the " Rambler " it
abounds with the soundest instruction in morality, yet it may be
worth while to notice that this is generally about the very rudiments
of decorum. The " Spectator," for example, defended matrimony
from the ribald attacks of the comic writers ; it preached sound views
concerning education, and it by no means neglected minor matters,
such as " that huddled economy of dress which passes under the gen-
eral name of a mob, the bane of conjugal love, and one of the readiest
means imaginable to alienate the affection of a husband, especially
a fond one " (No. 302). Elsewhere mention is made of misbehavior
at church ; improper conversation in public vehicles is denounced :
these are the domestic and somewhat rudimentary lessons inculcated
amid a great deal of social instruction concerning witchcraft, the folly
of dueling, the beauties of the arts, etc. The work of the " Specta-
tor" was summed up not inaccurately in these lines of an admirer,
which are given in Drake's " Essays," illustrative of the " Tatler," etc. :
"Improving youth, and hoary age,
Are bettered by thy matchless page,
And, what no mortal could devise,
Women, by reading thee, grow wise.
. . . wedlock by tby art is got
To be a soft and easy knot. . . .
The ladies, pleased with thee to dwell.
Aspire to write correct, and spell."
There is a certain anti-climax in this outburst of praise, but it has
the merit of accuracy, and it is easy to see how great are the advances
made since the beginning of the last century in what we may call
social morality.
Richardson, too, was didactic; but no reader of "Pamela" can
avoid seeing that the heroine clings to her virtue quite as much for
the reward she expects to win in this world as from any higher mo-
tive. The dangers portrayed in "Clarissa Harlowe" are somewhat
remote in this more decorous age ; and Sir Charles Grandison is a
curious combination of heroic romance and catlike domesticity. The
life that Fielding draws seems to us all very remote. Miss Edgeworth,
again, took charge of the education of her contemporaries by writing
a series of novels, each one of which exhibited the evil effects of one
minor vice and the advantages of the opposite virtue. In all her sto-
ries, clever though they are, there is a great deal of the teaching with
which Frank was dosed.
When at length society was tamed, hospitality did not mean drink-
ing with your guest till one or both of you fell under the table, and
