310 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tbo convalescent has rcaclu'd the niaxiinmn, and future average, of two
hours per day of active oit-door kxkkcisk. Languid promenades may
require au extension of that time ; -wood-chopping -svill justify its re-
duction to an hour and a half. For rainy days there should be a cov-
ered wood-shed, or, better yet, an amateur carpenter-shop with a liberal
supply of dull saws and thick boards. Asthenic invalids will derive
great benetit from horseback-exercise, or even from a buckboard trij)
— with or without catch-ropes — the great desideratum in antibilious
exercises being concussio7i, the sound shaking-up of the whole frame.
Trapeze-evolutions, spring-board and dumb-bell practice rank, there-
fore, highest among the gymnastic specifics ; wood-cutting and sawing
among the more arduous kinds of manual labor ; and trotting down-hill
among the various modes of pedestrian exercise. It is worth a dys-
peptic's while to hire a sedan-chair to lug him to the top of an out-of-
the-way hill, and a boy to run him a race to the foot of it. After a
week or so he will be able to dispense with the sedan. At the first
symptoms of indigestion, book-keepers, entry-clerks, authors, and edit-
ors should at once get a telescope-desk. Literary occupations need not
necessarily involve sedentary habits, though, as the alternative of a
standing-desk, I should prefer a Turkish writing-tablet and a square
yard of carpet-cloth to squat upon. But Schreber's telescope-desk en-
ables the writer to sit and stand by turns, and has the further advan-
tage of a sloping top that eases the wrist by resting the weight of the
arm upon the elbow.
CoLD-BATHS (always before dinner) may be limited to the summer
season ; but open bedroom-windows are de rigxieur the year round. As
long as the bedclothes keep the couch warm, the lungs can inhale cold
air not only with impunity, but with the most unmistakable benefit
to the digestive organs. The cold nights of the South African table-
lands enable the Caffre to digest his barbecues of sorghum-beer and
rhinoceros-steaks, and the neighborhood of a glacier makes many a
Swiss highland hotel a stronghold of gluttony. In the dog-days it
can do no harm, in a sequestered region, to take a river-side ramble at
a time when only the moonlight watches on the meadows, for out-door
exercise on an oppressively sultry day may defeat its object and bring
on a fit of retching and nausea. Intensely cold air, on the other hand,
is such a powerful tonic that, in midwinter, a ten minutes' trot along
an icy pavement will often serve all the digestive purposes of that
day, though the convalescent will be surer to have fulfilled all right-
eousness by adding half an hour's arm-work in the wood-shed. In
midsummer dyspeptics sometimes deprecate exercise on the peculiar
plea that a long-continued muscular effort acts as a reliable astrin-
gent, and the testimony of a veteran gymnasium-teacher of my ac-
quaintance seems to confirm the physiological fact. But, in the first
place, a transient constipation is no very serious matter, and, besides,
the danger can generally be obviated by training early in the mora-
