THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 313
meal. Not only that tlie progress of digestion is thus interrupted, not
only that the body derives no strength from the inert mass of ingesta,
but that mass, by undergoing a putrid instead of peptic decomposi-
tion, vitiates the humors of tlie system it was intended to nourish,
irritates the sensitive membranes of the stomach, and gradually im-
pairs the vigor of the whole digestive apparatus. Hence the gastric
torments of poor overworked teachers, who (unlike happier servants
of the public) can not shirk their work, and have to snatch their din-
ner during a brief interval of the hardest kind of mental drudgery.
Hence the sallow complexion, the hollow eyes, and the weary gait of
thousands of city clerks, scholars, lawyers, newspaper drudges, and even
physicians. Housewives, after dinner, have generally the good sense
to rest awhile, often a very good while, and thus manage to digest
their food ; for, that their immunity is not a prerogative of their sex
is demonstrated by the chlorotic complexion of lady-teachers and
boarding-school girls, who have only an hours recess — physiologically
no recess at all, if the school-bell rings right after dinner.
For those who have to drudge the Avhole afternoon, it would be
better to postpone the principal meal to the very end of the day, and
laugh at the sui:)posed danger of "sleeping on a full stomach." For
what do those who add a supper to an undigested dinner? — only with
this difference, that their stomachs are obliged to dispose of an acidu-
lated melanr/e. Animals, in a state of nature, nearly always sleep or
rest after a heavy meal ; only the homo sapiens disregards the prompt-
ings of his instincts, and relies on a dyspepsia-pill.
In most cases, however, the matter could be compromised. Early
rising and an unmuddled brain would enable almost any man to go
home at 3 or 4 p. m., and counting-house clerks should consent to a
reduction of their wages rather than forego the same privilege ; at
five, a full meal of milk, farinaceous preparations, and nutritive vege-
tables, followed by a dessert of fresh or cooked fruit ; then a siesta
of two full hours, music, conversation, or, faute de mieux, an enter-
taining book ; then, the weather permitting, a ramble in the cool even-
ing air, or light gymnastics ; then rest in undress, an air-bath, and
open bedroom-windows.
The general adoption of that plan would soon dissipate a strange
and strangely prevalent fallacy : the supposed natural antagonism of
the brain and the stomach — the alleged impossibility of combining
studious habits with a sound digestion. Restricted to proper hours,
head-work is as stimulating as any other kind of labor, and promotes
digestion instead of hindering it. The nature-abiding habits of such
men as Boileau, Linnaeus, Cuvier, Goethe, and Humboldt, enabled them
to reconcile the mental strain of their enormous literary activity with
the enjoyment of almost uninterrupted health.
Dyspeptics, therefore, need not shirk brain-work, but, as they
would shun the pills of a mercury-quack, they should beware of
