314 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MOXTIILY.
exasperatinij mental emotions. For it is a curious and not quite
t'xplaiiK'd but incontestable fact tliat a short tit of anger is often
enough not only to derange but to completely arrest the digestive pro-
cess for a whole day. Close behind the stomach is a group of ganglia,
the solar plexus, which sends out a large number of uerve-lilaments
that communicate with the brain, and thus suggest the physiological
explanation of the curious phenomenon, though its final or teleologi-
cal purpose is somewhat less apparent. Ilaller connects it with the
fact that anger vitiates the saliva {teste, the virulent bite of enraged
animals), and suggests that by a wise arrangement of Nature the sus-
pension of the assimilative process may preserve the chyle from the
contamination of malignant humors ; and, in connection with the same
subject. Camper mentions the circumstance that fear often acts as a
sudden cathartic, perhaps for the purpose of easing the stomach, and
thus i^reparing the body for emergencies — the necessity of flight, for
instance. Speculations of that sort lead to a field of curious but rather
recondite biological metaphysics ; but the empirical fact remains, and
partly suggests the rationale of another fact — namely, that pleasurable
mental emotions act as a benignant digestive tonic. Hence, perhaps,
the peptic beatitude of "jolly paunches," fellows who seem constitu-
tionally unable to see the gloomy side of earthly concernments, and
wax fat on the prescription of Democritus, '"'■Ride, si sapis.^^ The au-
^crat of the dinner-table should, therefore, peremptorily exclude all
conversational topics of an irritating character, as well as all business-
talk. A remarkable influence on the action of the bowels can be ex-
erted by niechanicdl laxKjhter — I mean, the agitation of the diaphragm
by means of a forcible and long-continued chuckle. Laurence Sterne
mentions that he was able to keep up this factitious kind of laughter
for minutes together, with or without the association of risible ideas.
On solitary evenings that talent could be utilized as a physiological
compensation for the absence of merry friends.
For the effects of mental worry, and nervousness (often the after-
effect of stimulating medication), the best remedy, next to out-door
•work, is a liberal alloicance of sleep ; and metropolitans who can not
afford to join the summer exodus should at least remove tlieir beds to
a suburban cottage, far from the sleep-murdering noise of the busi-
ness centers.
But neither long sleep nor short meals can save dyspeptics who
■will insist on swallowing their food smoking hot. The walls of the
stomach are lined with a nerve-interwoven delicate membrane, which
suffers from scalding fluids as much as any other tegumental tissues
of the body, and by daily torrefactions becomes either callous or
chronically inflamed, and in either case less fit for the performance of
its important functions. Our forefathers served their viands steam-
ing hot, but stuck at least to cool drinks, but hot French soups were
soon followed by hot tea and hot coffee. The " second breakfast," as
