SCIENCE AND CONSCIENCE. 17
Squire Western became as strange a type as Achilles ; the discovery
was made that family life, which had promised perfect peace, had yet
its own trials, and that a very admirable person who always told the
truth and shut the door after him, who was deaf to flattery and to
gross temptation, might yet be an extremely disagreeable companion.
We demand something more of those with whom we live than the cer-
tainty that they will not stab us or burn the roof over our heads, and
it is not enough that they abstain from breaking the commandments.
We require profound respect for one another's rights, and we perceive
in selfishness, in all its intricate shapes, an evil that was overlooked,
except in its more violent forms, by those who were eager in the con-
test against more heinous offenses. Society now busies itself with
what we may call the statute law of ethics, the greater principles be-
ing generally observed by common agreement. Vice, to be sure, is
not extinct, but intemperance, for example, is frowned ujDon by society
rather than tolerated and sanctioned, as has been the case in the past.
In the novels of the day, which are the most faithful records of con-
temporary life, the problems that are discussed are those that directly
concern the individual conscience. George Eliot's work is full of such
questions, and, like many great writers, she has set the standard before
the reader ahead of what it is in fact, so that it is, as it were, a goal
toward which we are striving with what strength we may have. In
this respect she resembles Goethe, who pushed forward the outer lines
of criticism to a point which the main body of his successors is only
gradually reaching.
Compare, for example, Miss Edgeworth's chilly prudence with
George Eliot's tender sympathy with suffering, and the advance that
has been made becomes clear. What would Miss Edgeworth have
thought of such a statement as this — " That element of tragedy,
which lies in the very fact of frequency, has not yet wrought itself
into the coarse emotion of mankind. ... If we had a keener vision
and feeling of all ordinary human life it would be hearing the grass
grow and the squirrel's heart beat, and we should die of that roar
which lies on the other side of silence"? Yet, of course, George
Eliot is far from despising the minutise of domestic life ; she makes it
the setting of the most delicate ethical problems. It is character and
not incidents that she studies ; not the glowing crimes that make the
fascination of the melodrama, but rather the corruption or weakness
that gives them birth. She traces the growth of sin in the human
heart with a vividness that is really appalling. Who has ever read
" Romola " without feeling that his own vanity, boasting, and shuffling
performances are branded in the chronicle of Tito's slow moral decay ?
In " The Mill on the Floss," again, we have a typical representation of
a form of domestic tyranny that can be matched in every household
that we know. In " Middlemarch " we follow the struggle of gener-
osity and a high ideal against incompetence and corroding selfish-
TOL. XXIII. — 2
