UNWRITTEX HISTORY. 321
conveys bigh praise. For it is just because it is true tbat these mighty
children became the fathers of natural knowledge. Men of science are
eternal children, always asking questions of Mother Nature, and never
content with her answers.
But, whether questions are childlike or childish, depends upon the
knowledge and the intelligence of the questioner ; and Herodotus, as
I have said, was largely endowed with both. Let me remind you that
he lived midway between Thales and Aristotle, in the very heart and
center of the great age of Greece ; and let me also remind you of the
fact, of which people too often remain ignorant throughout their school
and university career, that, if this was an epoch of groat achievements
in ai't, in literature, and in philosophy, it was no less distinguished for
the sedulous cultivation of physical science. Democritus, the contem-
porary of Herodotus, was the great exponent of principles which have
played, and still play, a great part in modern scientific speculation.
Half a century before Herodotus, Xenophanes had observed petrified
marine shells and fish-bones in the quarries of Syracuse and elsewhere ;
he had drawn the conclusion that the rocks in which they were con-
tained were the hardened mud of the bottom of the sea in which the
corresponding animals once lived ; and he had laid down the general
proposition that the geographical features of our earth are not con-
stant, but that where land now is, sea has been, and where sea is, land
has been. And it is a corollary from this proposition that the land
which constitutes any country has not always been what it is and
where it is, but that it has a history, unwritten save in the hieroglyph-
ics of Nature. Herodotus is not likely to have been ignorant of the
speculations of Xenophanes, but it is in evidence that his extensive
travels had enabled him to observe facts which led directly to like con-
clusions. The plain of Ilium and the estuary of the Moeander had
shown him rivers at work in the formation of new land, and he adverts
to the conclusions to be drawn from the presence of shells in the rocks
which bound the Nile Valley.
To a mind thus prepared by an acquaintance with elementary
truths of physical science, the first glance at Egypt can not fail to
suggest inquiry, and, in fact, Herodotus says as much :
" Any one who sees Egypt, without having heard a word about it
before, must perceive, if he has the least intelligence, that the Egypt
to which the Greeks go in their ships is a gift of the Xile to the Egyp-
tians." * That is to say, as he elsewhere explains, the rich soil of the
great plain, or so-called Delta of Egypt, has been formed out of the
deposits left by the Nile during the annual inundation. The region
occupied by the delta, he adds, was " evidently, at one time, a gulf of
the sea. It resembles, to compare small things with great, the parts
about Ilium and Teuthrania, Ephesus, and the plain of the Maeander.
In all these regions the land has been formed by rivers, whereof the
* Those and other citations are taken from Rawlinson's " Ilcrodotus."
TOL. XXIII. — 21
