UNWRITTEN HISTORY. 323
It has often been said, and with perfect truth, that Egypt is a land
by itself, unlike any other part of the world. On approaching Alex-
andria from the sea, nothing can be less attractive than the flat shore
which stretches east and west ao far as the eye can reach, without an
elevation of more importance than bare and barren sand-dunes to
break its even line. This monotonous coast extends for two hundred
miles between the most extreme of the ancient arms of the Nile, from
the Canopic in the west to the Pelusiac in the east, and forms the
northwardly turned base-line of the triangular area of Lower Egypt,
the shape of which led the Greeks to call it the delta.
In the journey from Alexandria southward to Cairo, the traveler
finds himself in a boundless plain, as flat as the flattest part of Lincoln-
shire or of Holland, At first, rising only here and there above the
level of the Mediterranean, it is full of morasses and stagnant lakes of
great extent, the waters of which vary from salt to fresh, and from
fresh to salt, according as the Nile or the Mediterranean is the predomi-
nant contributor to their contents. Beyond this region, the wide ex-
panse of black alluvial soil, intersected by innumerable water-courses,
departs from absolute horizontality, rising some three or four inches
in the mile. Here and there, low mounds bearing groups of date-
palms, or thickets of sycamores and acacias, indicate the deserted site
of an ancient city, or preserve from the periodic floods the assemblage
of hovels which constitutes a modern Egyptian village. In autumn,
the soil, save these mounds and their connecting dikes, disappears
under the overflow of the flooded Nile ; in eai-ly spring, the exuberant
vegetation of the young crops no less completely hides it under a
carpet of the brightest imaginable green.
For more than a hundred miles, as the crow flies, this is the general
character of the country between Alexandria and Cairo. But, long
before the latter city is reached, the plain begins to be limited by dis-
tant heights which spring up on either hand. First, a ridge of low
hills makes its aj^pearance on the western or Libyan side ; and then,
a range of more distant but bolder and loftier heights shows itself, far
away, on the eastern or Arabian horizon. With every advance south-
ward the plain diminishes in extent, while its Libyan and Arabian
boundaries approach, until, at Cairo, they are not more than six or
seven miles apart.
Nothing can be more sharply contrasted than the aspect of the
plain and that of its limitary heights. For the low, rounded ridges on
the west and the higher plateau with its steep and cliffy face on the
east are utterly waterless — mere wastes of bare rock or sand — without
a bush or a patch of soil on which it could grow, to veil their savage
nakedness. Under our own pale and faintl5Mighted sky, such bare
hills and rugged cliffs as those which bound the prospect here and
everywhere in Upper Egypt would fitly represent the abomination of
desolation. But, framed as they are in an atmosphere of limpid purity,
