324 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
with lights and shades and tints endlessly varying in shape and hue,
from hour to hour, and almost from minute to minute, as the sun runs
his course, they have a strange and unique beauty. Moreover, in
early spring, the edges of the greenery of the plain lie sharply defined
against the yellow sands and gray-brown stones of the waste as if it
were so much water.
When I was in Cairo, ten years ago, I delighted in wandering
about the heights of the Mokattam range, which rise for some four
or five hundred feet immediately to the east of the city. The Sahara
itself can not better deserve the name of desert than do these stony
solitudes. Looking westward at sunset, the vultures, diminished to
mere crows, wheeled about the face of the cliffs far below. Beneath
and beyond them, the green expanse stretched northward, until it be-
came lost in the horizon ; while, toward the west, its even line fol-
lowed the contour of the Libyan shore, as if it were the veritable sea-
water of the Gulf of Herodotus. And shai-ply defined against the
western sky, the great pyramid, which, even in its present mutilated
state, reared its summit to the level of my eye, threw its long shadow
eastward like the gnomon of an appropriately gigantic dial-plate.
Indeed, the comparison is not far-fetched. For the great shadow
has veritably swept, from west to north and from north to east, day
after day from the dawn of civilization till now ; since the toiling
subjects of Chufu, with patient and skillful labor, piled the great
stones of his tomb, one upon another, it has marked the birth-hour,
and sometimes the death-hour, of each great nation known to history.
For all these ages, day after day, the shadow, as it lengthened
eastward, has swept over the weary heads of thousands upon thou-
sands of orderly, cheerful, hard-working men, women, and children,
who have been plundered, starved, beaten, decimated, now to serve
the ambition or gratify the superstitious vanity of an ancient Pharaoh,
and now to enable some thinly varnished savage of a modern Khedive
to subsidize his opera troupe in Cairo, and squander the price of their
blood among foreign harlots and foreign swindlers.
Six thousand years of grinding oppression, worse than it ever was
during the last few centuries, seemed to me a curious reward for lay-
ing the foundations of civilization ; and yet there was no sign that
the great shadow was likely, for another century or so, to mark the
hour when Khedive, mudirs, commercial Mamelukes of various nation-
alities, and all the rest of the " wolves that with privy paw devour
apace and nothing said" should be swept away to make room for that
even moderately decent and intelligent rule which is all the Egyptian
people need to become, at last, a contented and a wealthy nation.
Bat this, I say, was ten years ago ; many things — Tel-el-Kebir
among the rest — have happened since then ; and perhaps the good
time may be coming. At any rate, the great British panacea — consti-
tutional government — is to be administered ; and if the Fellaheen
