UXWRITTEX HISTORY. 327
Nubia, the granitic masses of tlie desert on the eastern or Arabian side
spread suddenly to the westward, and come to the surface in place of
the sandstones. In the course of the six or seven miles between As-
souan and Philre the bed of the river rises sixteen feet,* fonning a de-
clivity, down which the stream rushes in a rapid, known as the First
Cataract. The alluvial soil has almost vanished, and the river flows
amid a confused heap of granite blocks, with black and polished sur-
faces. For some eight degrees of latitude farther south, the granite
and sandstone plateau which rises so suddenly at Assouan extends
through Nubia, increasing in elevation, until at the foot of the second
cataract (Wady Haifa) the level of low Nile reaches 392 feet ; at the
third cataract, 659 feet ; at the fourth, 745 feet. Where the White
and Blue Niles join, just below Khartoum, in 16° north, the river is
1,212 feet above the sea, or more than 900 feet above its height at As-
souan.
Throughout the whole of this course the Nile receives but one afflu-
ent, the Atbara, which carries the drainage of a part of Abyssinia into
it in about 18° north. And, as this solitary tributary is wholly in-
adequate to make good the loss which the main stream suffers by
evaporation and percolation, on its course through thirteen degrees of
one of the hottest and driest climates in the world, the Nile presents
the singular spectacle of a river the volume of water in which is con-
spicuously less than that poured into it by its feeders.
The Blue and the White Niles, which unite to form the main stream
close to Khartoum, are in fact very large rivers, each of which drains
an immense area abundantly supplied with water. The one receives
the overflow of the great equatorial Nyanza lakes and the drainage of
the vast swampy region of the Soudan to the north of them, in which
the heavy intertropical summer rains accumulate. The other is fed
not only by such rains, but by the snows among the mountain-tops of
Abyssinia, which melt as the sun advances to the northern tropic.
The height of the water in the Nilometer at Cairo is contingent
upon the meteorological conditions of a region more than a thousand
miles off ; and the question whether Egypt shall have a year of famine
or a year of plenty hangs upon the rainfall in Abyssinia and equatorial
Africa. It is as if the prosperity of the agricultural interest in Berk-
shire depended on the state of the weather in Morocco.
The general course of the Nile is so directly north and south that
the thirtieth parallel of east longitude, which traverses the Albert
Nyanza Lake on the equator, passes close to the Rosetta mouth at its
outfall. The Albert Nyanza is 2,500 feet above the sea ; and, since
the length of the part of the great circle inclosed between the points
* The heights of points in the course of the Nile, given in books, are widely discrepant
and usually very inaccurate. I am indebted to the eminent civil engineer, Mr. John
Fowler, for this and subsequent precise determinations. The height of low Nile above
the sea is 303 feet at Assouan, 319 feet at Philee.
