UNWRITTEN HISTORY. 329
months until the autumnal equinox, by which time the level of its sur-
face at Assouan is usually forty feet, at Thebes thirty-six feet, at Cairo
twenty-four or twenty-five feet, and at Rosetta four feet higher than
it is in ]\Iay ; and, before reaching the delta, it flows at the rate of
three or four miles an hour.
Under these circumstances, the river overflows its banks on all
sides. When it does so, the movement of the water is retarded or
even arrested, and the suspended solid matters sooner or later fall to
the bottom, and form a thin layer of sandy mud. When the Nile
waters spread out over the great surface of the delta, the retardation
is of course very marked. The coarse sediment is soon deposited,
and only the very finest particles remain in suspension at the outflow
into the Mediterranean. As the sun goes southward, his action on the
Abyssinian snows diminishes, the dry season sets in over the catch-
ment basin of the White Nile, and the water-supply of the Nile di-
minishes to its minimum. Hence, after the autumnal equinox, the
Nile begins to fall and its flow to slacken, as rapidly as it rose. By
the middle of November, it is half-way back to its summer level, and
it continues to fall until the following May. In the dry air of Nubia
and of Egypt, evaporation is incredibly rapid, and the Nile falls a prey
to the sun. As the old Egyptian myth has it, Osiris is dismembered
by Typhon.
Relatively to the bulk of water, the amount of solid matter trans-
ported annually by the Nile must be far less than that which is car-
ried down by the rapid streams of mountainous countries in temper-
ate climates — such, for example, as the upper Rhone. We have no
very satisfactory estimate of what that amount may be, but I am dis-
posed to think that the ordinary computation, according to which the
average deposit over the delta amounts to not more than a layer one-
twentieth of an inch thick annually, is, at any rate, not under the
mark.
But this is a very interesting question, for it is obvious that, if we
may assume that the deposit of the Nile has taken place uniformly at
a known rate, it becomes possible, given the thickness of the alluvial
deposit in the delta, to calculate the minimum time occupied in its
formation. The borings made under the direction of the late Mr.
Leonard Horner in the upper part of the delta, and those subsequently
conducted by Figari Bey, favor the conclusion that the natural loose
soil which fills the flat basin of the delta nowhere exceeds sixty feet
in depth. Assuming it to have this thickness in any spot, it follows
that, at one twentieth of an inch of dej^osit per annum, it must have
taken at least fourteen thousand four hundred years to accumulate to
that thickness at that place. And if so, Herodotus seems, at first, to
have marie a wonderfully good guess, when he said that the Arabian
Gulf and, by implication, that of the delta, might have been filled up
in " twenty thousand years, or even half the time."
