332 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MOXTHLY.
nution of evaporation, may have been iminense. Under such circum-
stances, it is easily conceivable that a swift and voluminous torrent,
periodically swollen by the contributions of the great southern afllu-
ents, covered the delta with a permanent inundation, and swept down
gravel and bowlders into the lowest part of its course.
That the outflow of the Nile once extended far beyond its present
limits appears to be certain, for a long, deep, dry valley — so like an
ancient river-bed that the Arabs call it the Bahr-bela-Ma, or waterless
river — runs from south to north in the Libyan desert along the west-
ern edge of the delta, and ends in the Mediterranean shore beyond
Taposiris, far to the west of the Canopic mouth, the most westerly of
the outlets of the Nile known during the historical period. And, in
the extreme east, far beyond the most easterly arm known to the
ancients — in fact, in the middle of the Isthmus of Suez, about Lake
Timseh — alluvial deposits, containing Nile shells and hippopotamus-
bones, show that the Nile once extended into this region, and perhaps
poured some portion of its waters into the Red Sea, by way of antici-
pating the engineering operations of more modem days.
These facts tend to show" that any calculation of the age of the
delta, based upon the present action of the Nile in the way indicated,
may need to be abbreviated. But, on the other hand, there are many
obvious considerations which tend the other way.
It is easy to see that the time required for the deposition of a cer-
tain thickness of alluvial soil, in any one part of the delta, can only be
a measure of the time required to fill up the whole, if the annual sedi-
ment is deposited in a layer of even thickness over the entire area.
But this is not what takes place. When the river first spread out from
the southern end of the delta, it must have deposited the great mass
of its solid contents near that end ; and this upper portion of the delta
must have been filled up when the lower portion was still covered with
water. And, since the area to be covered grew wider, the farther
north the process of filling was carried, it is obvious that the northern
part of the delta must have taken much longer to fill than the south-
em. If we suppose that the alluvium about Memphis was deposited
at the rate of one twentieth of an inch per annum, and that there are
fifty feet of it, ten thousand years may be the minimum age of that
particular part of the delta ; but the age of the alluvium of the delta
as a whole must be very considerably greater. And indeed there are
some indications that the shore-line of the nascent delta remained, for
a long time, in the parallel of Athribis, five-and-twenty miles north of
Cairo, where the remains of a line of ancient sand-dunes are said to
attest the fact. Hence, all attempts to arrive at any definite estimate
of the number of years since the alluvial plain of the delta began to
be formed, are frustrated. But, the more one thinks of the matter, the
more does the impression of the antiquity, of the plain grow ; and
I, for my part, have no doubt that the extreme term imagined by
