i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ness. In all her works the accidents of vice are carefully distinguished
from the vileness of moral ruin ; -what tragedy there may be lies not
in audacious crimes that make the fascination of the melodrama, but
in the wrecked conscience of him who commits them. It is not long
since fiction saw a hero in a murderer, who had at least the merit of
boldness ; now the analysis has been carried a step further, and novel-
ists acknowledge, what we all know, that there may be evil-doers who
are comparatively innocent, but that there is little to be said in behalf
of a being sodden with selfishness, even if he do not offend against
criminal law.
This distinction which the novelist draws between crime and wick-
edness is one that society itself is making, otherwise the novelist
would not perceive it, and the growing interest in the discussion of
the subject corresponds with the general increase in the value of the
individual. Laws, we may perhaps say, concern masses ; moral cor-
ruption is a personal matter that eludes the legislator. The ordinary
citizen is law-abiding by nature and education ; he does not consult
the statute-book and trim his life in such a way as to avoid the grip
of the constable ; the policeman is his ally, not his foe. This altera-
tion in men's way of modeling their lives has not been without effect
on the position of the Church. Sermons are still preached that are
remote from close connection with human interests, but there are many
instances of the attemjrt that is making to save religion from the dry-
rot of ecclesiasticism. Doctrinal exposition is giving place to simpler
explanation of right and wrong, and to aid in the government of life.
What was once a hierarchy is becoming a democracy. We see a
proof of this in the way in which books of casuistry are left stranded
for the entertainment of the curious. Society has nothing more to do
with those huge folios in which the leaders of the Church tormented
themselves to devise possible sins for which they constructed ingenious
reproofs. This treatment of the problems of sin reminds us of the
barren and intricate exercises of the logicians who were contemporary
with the casuists. Nowadaj^s no one dreams of consulting a book to
find out how wicked he has been, any more than an orator w^ho wishes
to influence his hearers practices with x, y, and z — the skeleton of the
syllogism — to ascertain how he shall move the feelings of his audience.
A man trusts to his conscience, to the sentiments of his neighbors, to
tell him what his conduct shall be. The possession of the test of right
and wrong has spread from a class to society at large. In the same
way, with every year less stress is laid on the cosmogony of the Old
Testament, and more on the ethics of the New. It is no longer de-
manded that we believe in the literal truth of Genesis, or in the ever-
varying reconciliations, as they are called, with which theologians try
not to be left behind by modern thought.
These modifications of ecclesiasticism — that is to say, the relaxa-
tion of dogmatism coincident with a general comprehension of mo-
