UNWRITTEX HISTORY. 333
Herodotus for the filling up of the Arabian Gulf — twenty thousand
years — is very mnch below the time required for the formation of the
delta.
Thus far we have traced the unwritten history of Egypt, and the
gulf of the Mediterranean, postulated by Herodotus, is not yet in
sight. Nevertheless, at a much more remote epoch — in that called
miocene by geologists — the gulf was assuredly there.
Near the tombs of the Caliphs at Cairo (according to Schwein-
furth, two hundred feet above the level of the Mediterranean), in the
neighborhood of Sakkarah and in that of the great pyramids, the lime-
stone rocks, which look so like a sea-shore, were found by Professor
Fraas to display the remains of a veritable coast-line. For they ex-
hibit the tunnels of boring marine mollusks {Pholades and Saxicavce),
and they are incrusted with acorn-shells, as if the surf had only lately
ceased to wash them. At the feet of these former sea-cliffs lie ancient
sandy beaches, containing shells of oysters, scallops, and other marine
mollusks, with the skeletons of sea-urchins. The specific characters of
these marine organic remains leave no doubt that they lived during
the miocene, or middle tertiary, epoch. Marine beds of the same age
occur at Ain Musa, between Cairo and Suez.
There can be no question, therefore, that, in the miocene epoch, the
valley of the delta was, as Herodotus thought it must have been, a
gulf of the sea. And, as no trace of marine deposits of this, or of a
later age, has been discovered in Upper Egypt, it must be assumed
that the apex of the delta coincides with the southern limit of the
ancient gulf.
Moreover, there is some curious evidence in favor of the belief
that, at this period, however remote as measured by our standards of
time, the Nile flowed down from Central Africa as it flows now, but
probably in much larger volume. Every visitor to Cairo makes a pil-
grimage to the " petrified forest," which is to be seen in the desert a
few miles to the northeast of that city. And indeed it is a spectacle
worth seeing. Thousands of trunks of silicified trees, some of them
twenty or thirty feet long, and a foot or two in diameter, lie scat-
tered about and partly imbedded in the sandy soil. Not a trunk has
branches, or roots, or a trace of bark. None are upright. The struc-
ture of wood, which has not had time to decay before silicification, is
usually preserved in its minutest details. The structure of these
trunks is often obscure, as if they had decayed before silicification ;
and they are often penetrated, like other decayed wood, by fungi,
which, along with the rest, have been silicified.*
* See Unj»er, " Der versteinerte "Wald bei Cairo," " SitzunKsberichte der Wiener
Akadcmie," 1858. Dr. Schweinfurth ("Zur Beleuchtung der Fraq;e uebcr den verstein-
erten Wald," "Zeitschrift der deutschen geologischcn Gescllschaft," 1882) considers that
the trees grew where they arc found, but his arguments do not appear to me to be con-
vincincr.
