THE GREAT BRIDGE AXD ITS LESSONS. 339
the solar radiation is more intense and more constant than in Pai'is.
Th(? engraving correctly represents the arrangement of the apparatus.
M. Pil're's insolator is shown in the center, with its great parabolic
mirror. The engine which it drove is shown by the side of it, while
on the right and in the foreground may be seen the press printing the
journal. We have a right to believe that heliodynaniics may at some
future time be usefully and profitably employed in hot countries.
THE GREAT BRIDGE AND ITS LESSONS.
Address by ABRAM S. HEWITT.
TWO hundred and seventy years ago the good ship Tiger, com-
manded by Captain Adraien Block, was burned to the water's
edge as she lay at anchor, just off the southern end of Manhattan
Island. Her crew, thus forced into winter quarters, were the first
M'hite men who built and occupied a house on the land where New
York now stands ; " then," to quote the graphic language of Mrs.
Lamb, in her history of the city, "in primeval solitude, waiting till
commerce should come and claim its own. Nature wore a hardy
countenance, as wild and as untamed as the savage landholders. Man-
hattan's twenty-two thousand acres of rock, lake, and rolling table-
land, rising at places to a height of one hundred and thirty-eight feet,
were covered with somber forests, grassy knolls, and dismal swamps.
The trees were lofty, and old, decayed, and withered limbs contrasted
with the younger growth of branches ; and wild flowers wasted their
sweetness among the dead leaves and uncut herbage at their roots.
The wanton grape-vine s\vung carelessly from the topmost boughs of
the oak and the sycamore ; and blackberry and raspberry bushes, like
a picket-guard, presented a bold front in all possible avenues of ap-
proach. The entire surface of the island was bold and granitic, and
in profile resembled the cartilaginous back of the sturgeon." This
primeval scene was the product of natural forces working through
uncounted periods of time ; the continent slowly rising and falling in
the sea like the heaving breast of a world asleep ; glaciers carving
patiently through ages the deep estuaries ; seasons innumerable cloth-
ing the hills with alternate bloom and decay.
The same sun shines to-day upon the same earth ; yet how trans-
formed ! Could there be a more astounding exhibition of the power
of man to change the face of Nature than the panoramic view which
presents itself to the spectator standing upon the crowning arch of the
bridge whose completion we are here to-day to celebrate in the honored
presence of the President of the United States, with their fifty mill-
ions ; of the Governor of the State of New York, with its five millions ;
