THE GREAT BRIDGE AXD ITS LESSOXS. 341
In no previous period of the world's history could this bridge have
been built. Within the last hundred years the greater part of the
knowledge necessary for its erection has been gained. Chemistry was
not born until 1776, the year when political economy was ushered into
the world by Adam Smith, and the Declaration of Independence was
proclaimed by the Continental Congress, to be maintained at the point
of the sword by George Washington. In the same year Watt pro-
duced his successful steam-engine, and a century has not elapsed since
the first specimen of his skill was erected on this continent. The law
of gravitation was indeed known a hundred years ago, but the intricate
laws of force which now control the domain of industry had not been
developed by the study of physical science, and their practical applica-
tions have only been effectually accomplished within our own day, and,
indeed, some of the most important of them during the building of the
bridge. For use in the caissons, the perfecting of the electric light
came too late, though happily in season for the illumination of the
finished work.
This construction has not only employed every abstract conclusion
and formula of mathematics, whether derived from the study of the
earth or the heavens, but the whole structure may be said to rest upon
a mathematical foundation. The great discoveries of chemistry, show-
ing the composition of water, the nature of gases, the properties of
metals, the laws and processes of physics, from the strains and press-
ures of mighty masses to the delicate vibrations of molecules, are all
recorded here. Every department of human industry is reiaresented,
from the quarrying and the cutting of the stones, the mining and
smelting of the ores, the conversion of iron into steel by the pneu-
matic process, to the final shaping of the masses of metal into useful
forms, and its reduction into wire, so as to develop in the highest de-
gree the tensile strength which fits it for the work of suspension.
Every tool which the ingenuity of man has invented has somewhere,
in some special detail, contributed its share in the accomplishment of
the final result.
" Ah ! what a wondrous thing it is
To note how many wheels of toil
One word, one thought can set in motion I "
But without the most recent discoveries of science, which have
enabled steel to be substituted for iron — applications made since the
original plans of the bridge were devised — we should have had a
structure fit, indeed, for use, but of such moderate capacity that we
could not have justified the claim which we are now able to make, that
the cities of New York and Brooklyn have constructed and to-day re-
joice in the possession of the crowning glory of an age memorable for
great industrial achievements.
This is not the proper occasion for describing the details of this
undertaking. This grateful task will be performed by the engineer in
