342 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
the final report, "vvitlx wliu-li every great work is properly committed
to the judgment of posterity. Hut there are some lessons to be drawn
from the hasty considerations I have presented, which may encourage
and comfort us as to the destiny of man and the outcome of human
progress.
What message, then, of hope and cheer does this achievement con-
vey to those who would fain believe that love travels hand in hand
•with light along the rugged pathway of time ? Have the discoveries
of science, the triumi)lis of art, and the progress of civilization, which
have made its construction a possibility and a reality, promoted the
welfare of mankind and raised the great mass of the people to a higher
plane of life ?
This question can best be answered by comparing the compensa-
tion of the labor employed in the building of this bridge with the
earnings of labor employed upon works of equal magnitude in ages
gone by. The money expended for the work of construction proper
on the bridge, exclusive of land damages and other expenses, such as
interest, not entering into actual cost, is nine million ($9,000,000) dol-
lars. This money has been distributed in numberless channels — for
quarrying, for mining, for smelting, for fabricating the metals, for
shaping the materials, and erecting the work, employing every kind
and form of human labor. The wages paid at the bridge itself may
be taken as the fair standard of the wages paid for the work done
elsewhere. These wages are :
Average.
Laborers $1 75 per day.
Blacksmiths 3 50 to $4 00 "
Caqienters 3 00 to 3 50 "
Masons and stone-cutters 3 50 to 4 00 "
Riggers 2 00 to 2 50 "
Painters 2 00 to 3 50 "
Taking all these kinds of labor into account, the w^ages paid for
work on the bridge will thus average 82.50 per day.
Now, if this work had been done at the time when the Pyra-
mids were built, with the skill, appliances, and tools then in use, and
if the money available for its execution had been limited to nine mill-
ion ($9,000,000) dollars, the laborers employed would have received
an average of not more than two cents per day, in money of the same
purchasing power as the coin of the present era. In other words, the
effect of the discoveries of new methods, tools, and laws of force, has
been to raise the wages of labor more than a hundred-fold in the in-
terval which has elapsed since the Pyramids were built. I shall not
weaken the suggestive force of this statement by any comments upon
the astounding evidence of progress, beyond the obvious corollary
that such a state of civilization as gave birth to the Pyramids would
now be the signal for universal bloodshed, revolution, and anarchy. I
do net underestimate the hardships borne by the labor of this century.
