THE GREAT BRIDGE AXD ITS LESS OX S. 343
They are, indeed, grievous, and to liL;liten them is, as it should he,
the chief concern of statesmanship. But this comparison proves that
through forty centuries these hardships have been steadily diminished ;
tliat all the achievements of science, all the discoveries of art, all the
inventions of genius, all the progress of civilization, tend, by a higher
and immutable law, to the steady and certain amelioration of the con-
dition of society. It shows that, notwithstanding the apparent growth
of great fortunes, due to an era of unparalleled development, the dis.-
tribution of the fruits of labor is approaching, from age to age, to
more equitable conditions, and must, at last, reach the plane of abso-
lute justice between man and man.
Jjut this is not the only lesson to be drawn from such a compari-
son. The Pyramids were built by the sacrifices of the living for the
dead. They served no useful purpose, except to make odious to future
generations the tyranny which reduces human beings into beasts of
burden. In this age of the world such a waste of effort would not be
tolerated. To-day the expenditures of communities are directed to
useful purposes. Except only works designed for defense in time of
war, the wealth of society is now mainly expended in opening chan-
nels of communication for the free play of commerce and the com-
munion of the human race. An analysis of the distribution of the
sur})lus earnings of man after providing food, shelter, and raiment,
shows that they are chiefly absorbed by railways, canals, ships, bridges,
and telegraphs. In ancient times these objects of expenditure were
scarcely known. Our bridge is one of the most conspicuous examples
of this change in the social condition of the world and of the feeling
of men. In the middle ages, cities walled each other out, and the
fetters of prejudice and tyranny held the energies of man in hopeless
bondage. To-day men and nations seek for free intercourse with each
other, and the whole force of the intellect and energy of the world is
expended in breaking down the barriers, established by Nature or
created by man, to the solidarity of the human race.
And yet in view of this tendency, the most striking and character-
istic feature of the nineteenth century, there still are those who believe
and teach that obstruction is the creator of wealth ; that the peoples
can be made great and free by the erection of artificial barriers to the
beneficent action of commerce, and the unrestricted intercourse of men
and nations with each other. If they are right, then this bridge is a
gigantic blunder, and the doctrine which bids us to love our neighbors
as ourselves is founded upon a misconception of the Divine purpose.
But the bridge is more than an embodiment of the scientific knowl-
edge of {>hysical laws, or a symbol of social tendencies. It is equally
a monument to the moral qualities of the human soul. It could never
have been built by mere knowledge and scientific skill alone. It re-
quired in addition the infinite patience and unwearied courage by which
great results are achieved. It demanded the endui'ance of heat and
