344
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cold and physical distress. Its constructors have had to face death in
its most repulsive form. Death, indeed, was the fate of its great pro-
jector, and dread disease the heritage of the greater engineer who has
brought it to completion. The faith of the saint and the courage of
the hero have been combined in the conception, the design, and the
execution of this work.
Let us then record the names of tlie engineers and foremen who
have thus made humanity itself their debtor, for the successful achieve-
ment which is not the result of accident or of chance, but is the fruit
of design, and of the consecration of all personal interest to the public
weal. They are : John A. Roebling, who conceived the project and
formulated the plan of the bridge ; Washington A. Roebling, who,
inheriting his father's genius, and more than his father's knowledge
and skill, has directed the execution of this great work from its incep-
tion to its completion ; aided in tlie several departments by Charles C.
]Martin, Francis Collingwood, William II. Payne, George W. McNulty,
Wilhelm Ililderbrand, Samuel R. Probasco, and E. F. Farrington, Ar-
thur V. Abbott, William Van der Bosch, Charles Young, and Harry
Tupple, who, in apparently subordinate positions, have shown them-
selves peculiarly fitted to command, because they have known how to
serve. But the record would not be complete without reference to
the unnamed men by whose unflinching courage, in the depths of the
caissons, and upon the suspended wires, the work was carried on amid
storms, and accidents, and dangers, sufficient to appall the stoutest
heart. To them we can only render the tribute which history accords
to those who fight as privates in the battles of freedom, with all the
more devotion and patriotism because their names will never be known
by the world whose benefactors they are. One name, however, which
will find no place in the official records, can not be passed over here in
silence. In ancient times when great works were constructed, a god-
dess was chosen, to whose tender care they were dedicated. Thus the
ruins of the Acropolis to-day recall the name of Pallas Athene to an
admiring world. In the middle ages the blessing of some saint was
invoked to protect from the rude attacks of the barbarians and the de-
structive hand of time the building erected by man's devotion to the
worship of God. So, with this bridge will ever be coupled the thought
of one through the subtile alembic of whose brain, and by whose facile
fingers, communication was maintained between the directing power
of its construction and the obedient agencies of its execution. It is
thus an everlasting monument to the self-sacrificing devotion of woman,
and of her capacity for that higher education from which she has been
too long debarred. The name of Mrs. Emily Warren Roebling will
thus be inseparably associated with all that is admirable in human na-
ture, and with all that is wonderful in the constructive world of art.
This tribute to the engineers, however, would not be deserved if
there is to be found any evidence of deception on their part in the
