PHYSICS IX GENERAL EDUCATION. 21
It seems, therefore, not improper to raise the question, "What can
this Association do, or, more specifically, what can this section do, to
increase the efiiciency of instruction in physics ?
I do this the more willingly for the reason that a considerable ma-
jority of the members of the section are engaged in this instruction
durino- the greater portion of the year. In America a few only are
privileged to devote themselves to original research. Here instruction
and investigation, to a great extent, go hand in hand, and it is gener-
ally admitted that it is better so. The teacher does not reach his
greatest efficiency, indeed he must fail completely, unless he contin-
ues a student, not of the works of men alone, but of Xature herself.
On the other hand, some of the best and most fruitful inspirations of
the investigator spring from his contact with those to whom he is
communicating the finished products of his work. The history of
science goes to show that many, perhaps most of those who have con-
tributed to its advancement, have been great teachers. We neglect
our duty, then, when we fail to give attention at proper times and
under proper circumstances to the improvement of methods of in-
struction.
Perhaps in no other department of science has a greater change in
these methods been wrought during the last ten years than in physics.
And yet this change has been going on in an irregular, unmethodical
sort of a way. There has been little or no concerted action among
those interested and engaged in the work. Although all have had
practically the same end in view, each individual has, in the main,
worked out his own solution of the problem in accordance with his
own views, modified and often largely controlled by the conditions
and restrictions to which he was subjected.
It is not surprising, therefore, that results attained shovdd in many
cases be widely different and, on the whole, not entii*ely satisfactory.
In this new instruction many things have been attempted that
could not be, and some things that ought not to be, accomplished.
That overburdened and somewhat obnoxious vrovd 2yracf2cal has found
a place in our vocabulary, and we hear much of practical instruction in
physics, whatever that may mean.
The subject, considered as a whole, naturally divides itself into
two parts, pertaining respectively to higher instruction and elementary
instruction : instruction in the colleges and instruction in the schools.
Let us briefly consider each of these.
In referring to higher or collegiate instruction, it will be remem-
bered that I do not include that of the post-graduate course in the
university, properly so called, for which laboratories for research are
equipped and maintained, and to which students are admitted only
when thoroughly prepared by previous training. Fortunately for
American students, a few such courses in physics are now open in this
country, and it goes without saying that those who are conducting
