THE GREAT BRIDGE AXD ITS LESSOXS. 347
bridge and the increase in strength rendered necessary by a better
comprehension of the vohxme of traffic between the two cities. The
items covered by the original estimate of $7,000,000 have thus been
raised to §9,000,000, so that :?2,000,000 represents the addition to the
original estimates, and for this excess, amounting to less than thirty
per cent, there is actual value in the bridge in increased dimensions
and strength, whereby its capacity has been greatly increased.
The carriage-ways, as originally designed, would have permitted
only a single line of vehicles in each direction. The speed, of the en-
tire procession, more than a mile long, would therefore have been lim-
ited by the rate of the slowest ; and every accident causing stoppage
to a single cart would have stopped everything behind it for an in-
definite period. It is not too much to say that the removal of this
objection, by widening the carriage-ways, has multiplied manifold the
practical usefulness of the bridge.
The statement I have made is due to the memory not only of John
A. Roebling, but also of Henry C. Murphy, that great man, who de-
voted his last years to this enterprise ; and who, having, like Moses,
led the people through the toilsome way, was permitted only to look,
but not to enter, upon the promised land.
This testimony is due also to the living trustees, and to the engi-
neers who have controlled and directed this large expenditure in the
public service — the latter, in the conscientious discharge of professional
duty ; and the former, with no other object than the welfare of the
public, and without any other possible reward than the good opinion
of their fellow-citizens.
I do not make this statement without a full sense of the responsi-
bility which it involves, and I realize that its accuracy will shortly be
tested by the report of experts who are now examining the accounts.
But it will be found that I have sjDoken the words of truth and sober-
ness. "When the ring absconded, I was asked by "William C. Have-
meyer, then the ]Mayor of New Yoi'k, to become a trustee, in order
to investigate the expenditures, and to report as to the propriety of
going on with the work. This duty was performed without fear or
favor. The methods by which the ring proposed to benefit themselves
were clear enough, but its members fled before they succeeded in
reimbursing tliemsolves for the preliminary expenses which they had
defrayed. With their flight a new era commenced, and, during the
three years when I acted as a trustee, I am sure that no fraud was
committed, and that none was possible. Since that date the board has
been controlled by trustees, some of whom are thorough exjicrts in
bridge-building, and the others men of such high character that the
suggestion of malpractice is improbable to absurdity.
The bridge has not only been honestly built, but it may be safely
asserted that it could not now be duplicated at the same cost. Much
money might, however, have been saved if the work had not been
