348 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
delayed through want of means, and unnecessary obstacles interposed
by mistaken public officials. Moreover, measured by its capacity, and
the limitations imposed on its construction by its relation to the
interests of traffic and navigation, it is the cheapest structure ever
erected by the genius of man. This will be made evident by a single
comparison with the Britannia Tubular Bridge, erected by Stephenson
over the Menai Strait. He adopted the tubular principle because he
believed that the suspension principle could not be made practical for
railway-traffic, although he had to deal Avith spans not greater than
470 feet. lie built a structure that contained 10,540 tons of iron, and
cost £001,000, or about $3,000,000. Fortunately, he has left a calcu-
lation on record as to the possible extension of the tubular girder,
showing that it would reach the limits in which it could bear only its
own weight (0:2,000 tons) at 1,570 feet. Now, for a span of 1,000 feet,
the Brooklyn Bridge contains but 6,740 tons of material, and Avill sus-
tain seven times its own weight. Its cost is SO, 000,000, whereas a
tubular bridge for the same span would contain ten times the weight
of the metal, and, though costing twice as much money, would be
without the ability to do any useful work.
Roebling, therefore, solved the problem which had defied Stephen-
son, and upon his design has been built a successful structure at half
the cost of a tubular bridge that would have fallen when loaded in
actual use. It is impossible to furnish any more striking proof of the
genius which originated and of the economy which constructed this
triumph of American engineering.
We have thus a monument to the public spirit of the two cities,
created by an expenditure as honest and as economical as those which
gave us the Erie Canal, the Croton Aqueduct, and the Central Park.
If it had been otherwise, it would have been a monument to the eternal
infamy of the trustees and of the engineers under whose supervision
it has been erected ; and this brings me to the final consideration
which I feel constrained to offer on this point.
During all these years of trial and false report a great soul lay in
the shadow of death, praying only to stay long enough for the com-
pletion of the work to which he had devoted his life. I say a great
soul, for in the spring-time of youth, with friends and fortune at his
command, he gave himself to his country, and for her sake braved
death on many a well-fought battle-field. When restored to civil
life, his health was sacrificed to the duties which had devolved upon
him as the inheritor of his father's fame and the executor of his father's
plans. Living only for honor, and freed from the temptations of nar-
row means, how is it conceivable that such a man — whose approval
was necessary to every expenditure — should, by conniving with job-
bers, throw away more than the life which was dear to him that he
might fulfill his destiny and leave to his children the heritage of a
good name and the glory of a grand achievement ? Well might this
