THE GREAT BRIDGE AXD ITS LESSO^''S. 349
suffering hero quote the Avortls of " Hyperion " : " Oh, I have looked
with Avonder upon those who, in sorrow and privation, and bodily dis-
corafort, and sickness, which is the shadow of death, have worked
right on to the accomplishment of their great purposes ; toiling much,
enduring much, fultilling much ; and then, with shattered nerves and
sinews all unstrung, have laid themselves down in the grave and slept
the sleep of death, and the world talks of them while they sleep !
And as in the sun's eclipse we can behold the great stars shining in
the heavens, so in this life-eclipse have these men beheld the lights of
the great eternity, burning solemnly and forever ! "
And now what is to be the outcome of this great expenditure upon
the hi«:;hway which has been constructed between the two cities, for
which Dr. Storrs and I have the honor to speak to-day ? That Brook-
lyn will gain in numbers and in wealth with accelerated speed is a
foregone conclusion. Whether this gain shall in any wise be at the
expense of New York is a matter in regard to which the great me-
tropolis does not concern herself. Her citizens are content with the
knowledge that she exists and grows with the growth of the whole
country, of whose progress and prosperity she is but the exponent and
the index. Will the bridge lead, as has been forcibly suggested, and
in some quarters hopefully anticipated, to the union of the two cities
under one name and one government? This suggestion is in part
sentimental and in part practical. So far as the union in name is
concerned, it is scarcely worth consideration, for in any comparison
which our national or local pride may institute between this metropolis
and the other great cities of the world, its environment, whether in
Long Island, Staten Island, or New Jersey, will always be included.
In considering the population of London, no one ever separates the
city proper from the surrounding parts. They are properly regarded
as one homogeneous aggregation of human beings.
It is only when we come to consider the problem of governing great
masses that the serious elements of the question present themselves,
and must be determined before a satisfactory answer can be given.
The tendency of modern civilization is toward the concentration of
population in dense masses. This is due to the higher and more diver-
sified life which can be secured by association and co-operation on a
large scale, affording not merely greater comfort and often luxury, but
actually distributing the fruits of labor on a more equitable basis than
is possible in sparsely settled regions and among feeble communities.
The great improvements of our day in labor-saving machinery and
its application to agriculture enable the nation to be fed with a less
percentage of its total force thus applied, and leave a larger margin of
population free to engage in such other pursuits as are best carried on
in large cities.
The disclosures of the last census prove the truth of this statement.
At the first census in 1790 the population i-esident in cities was 3 3 per
