THE GREAT BRIDGE AX I) ITS LESSONS. 351
to a generous rivalry in perfecting each its own government, recogniz-
ing the truth that there is no true liberty without law, and that eter-
nal vigilance, which is the only safeguard of liberty, can best be exer-
cised within limited areas.
It would be a most fortunate conclusion if the completion of this
bridge should arouse public attention to the absolute necessity of good
municipal government, and recall the only principle upon which it can
ever be successfully founded. There is reason to hope that this result
will follow, because the erection of this structure shows how a prob-
lem, analogous to that which confronts us in regard to the city govern-
ment, has been met and solved in the domain of physical science.
The men who controlled this enterprise at the outset were not all
of the best type ; some of them, as we have seen, were public jobbers.
But they knew that they could not build a bridge, although they had
no doubt of their ability to govern a city. They thereupon proceeded
to organize the knowledge which existed as to the construction of
bridges, and they held the organization thus created responsible for
results. Now, we know that it is at least as difficult to govern a city
as to build a bridge, and yet, as citizens, we have deliberately allowed
the ignorance of the community to be organized for its government,
and we then complain that it is a failure. Until we imitate the exam-
ple of the ring, and organize the intelligence of the community for its
government, our complaint is childish and unreasonable. But we shall
be told that there is no analogy between building a bridge and gov-
erning a city. Let us examine this objection. A city is made up of
infinite interests. They vary from hour to hour, and conflict is the
law of their being. Many of the elements of social life are "what
mathematicians term " variables of the independent order." The prob-
lem is to reconcile these conflicting interests and variable elements into
one organization which shall work without jar, and allow each citizen
to pursue his calling, if it be an honest one, in peace and quiet.
Now, turn to the bridge. It looks like a motionless mass of ma-
sonry and metal ; but, as a matter of fact, it is instinct with motion.
There is not a particle of matter in it which is at rest even for the
minutest portion of time. It is an aggregation of unstable elements,
changing with every change in the temperature and every movement of
the heavenly bodies. The problem was, out of these unstable elements
to produce absolute stability ; and it was this problem which the engi-
neers, the organized intelligence, had to solve, or confess to inglorious
failure. The problem has been solved. In the first construction of
suspension-bridges it was attempted to check, repress, and overcome
their motion, and failure resulted. It was then seen that motion is the
law of existence for suspension-bridges, and provision was made for
its free play. Then they became a success. The bridge before us
elongates and contracts between the extremes of temperature from
fourteen to sixteen inches ; the vertical rise and fall in the center of
