THE GREAT BRIDGE AND ITS LESSOXS. 353
if it be exercised, the will of the community can never be paralyzed.
Our safety and our success rest on the ballot in the bands of freemen
at the polls, deliberately deposited, never for an unworthy man, but
always with a profound sense of the responsibility which should govern
every citizen in the exercise of this fundamental right.
If the lesson of the bridge, which I have thus sought to enforce,
shall revive the confidence cf the people in their own power, and in-
duce them to use it practically for the election of good men to office,
then indeed will its completion be a public blessing worthy of the
new era of industrial development in which it is our fortunate lot to
live.
Great indeed has been our national progress. Perhaps we, who
belong to a commercial community, do not fully realize its significance
and promise. We buy and sell stocks, without stopping to think that
they represent the most astonishing achievements of enterprise and
skill in the magical extension of our vast railway system ; we specu-
late in wheat, without reflecting on the stupendous fact that the plains
of Dakota and California are feeding hungry mouths in Europe ; we
hear that the Treasury has made a call for bonds, and forget that the
rapid extinction of our national debt is a proof of our prosperity and
patriotism, as wonderful to the world as was the power we exhibited
in the struggle which left that apparently crushing burden upon u?^
If, then, we deal successfully with the evils which threaten our po-
litical life, who can venture to predict the limits of our future wealth
and glory — wealth that shall enrich all ; glory that shall be no selfish
heritage, but the blessing of mankind? Beyond all legends of Ori-
ental treasure, beyond all dreams of the golden age, will be the splen-
dor, and majesty, and happiness of the free people dwelling upon this
fair domain, if, as may be fairly anticipated, they shall then have
learned how to make equitable distribution among themselves of the
fruits of their common labor. As our own Bryant sang as long ago
as 1821 :
" Here the free spirit of mankind at length
Throws its last fetters off; and who shall place
A limit to the giant's untamed strength,
Or curb its swiftness in the forward race !
Far, like the comet's way, through infinite space,
Stretches the long, untraveled path of hglit
Into the depths of ages; we may trace
Distant, the brightening glory of its flight,
Till the receding i-ays are lost to human sight."
At the ocean gateway of such a nation, well may stand the stately
figure of " Liberty enlightening the World " ; and, in hope and faith,
as well as gratitude, we write upon the towers of our beautiful bridge,
to be illuminated by her electric ray, the words of exultation, Finis
coronat opus.
Tc«.. xxm. — 23
