358 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
960,792 per acre ; while one busliel, planted October 15th, gave only
812,160.
Two plants of 24 ears each gave 1,911 and 1,878 grains, or 79 per
ear ; 20 ears per foot, at 48 grains only per ear, would produce 88
bushels per acre. All th*» conditions of time and space being fulfilled,
we can obtain from a single jiarent-grain as many ears as are ordina-
rily obtained from twenty grains, with this most important advantage,
viz. : these ears being produced from plants which have attained (or
nearly so) perfect development of their growth, contain more than
double the common number of grains, and their contents may be
largely increased by the continued annual selection of the most vigor-
ous parent-grains. These small quantities may be drilled on a large
scale in the following manner : The object is to insure perfect single-
ness and regularity of plant, with uniformity of depth. The two latter
may be obtained by the drill, as may the former also by adopting the
following plan : The seed-cups ordinarily used in drilling wheat are
so large that they deliver in bunches of grains, consisting of six or
seven, which fall together within a very small area, from which a less
produce will be obtained than if it had been occupied by a single
grain. The additional grains are thus not only wasted, but are posi-
tively injurious. By using seed-cups which are only large enough to
contain one grain at a time, a stream, of single grains is delivered, and
the desired object, viz., the depositing of grains singly, at once at-
tained. The intervals in the rows will not be exactly uniform, but
they xcill he siifficiently so for all X)ractical purposes. The w^idth of
these intervals will, of course, depend on the speed with which the
seed-barrel revolves, which can be regulated at will by adjusting the
gear which drives it. By this mode of drilling, the advantage of the
"broad-cast" system is obtained (equal distribution), as the rows may
be close together, and the grains as thin in the rows as may be desired.
The crop should be hoed, as soon and as frequently as possible,
with a horse-hoe. If the seed has been sown early, this should be
done in the autumn, as it causes the plants to tiller and occupy the
whole ground before winter sets in. It is essential to the success of
thin seeding to keep the land perfectly free from weeds during the
growth of the crop.
Now, what are the advantages of Major Hallett's system ? A
bushel of pedigree wheat (original red) produced from single grains,
planted 12 inches X 12 inches, contains about 460,000 grains, while a
bushel of ordinary wheat contains 700,000 or more grains. Therefore,
in two crops consisting of exactly the same number of grains, the crop
from thin seeding would be upward of 70 bushels against 46 bushels
per acre. Again, a bushel of pedigree barley, produced from grains
planted singly, contains 390,400 grains ; while a bushel of ordinary
barley contains upward of 550,000, or, in two crops of equal numbers
of grains, the one would be 55 bushels, the other 39 bushels, per acre.
