22 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
them do not need advice from us. It is for the large class of luider-
graduates who pursue the study of physics for a greater or less time
that we may he concerned.
Contemporary with the recognition of the possibility of greatly
improved methods of instruction was the recognition of the value of
the more thorough study of physics as an element in what is called a
liberal education.
These were alike the results of the tremendous strides made by
physical science, beginning twenty-five or thirty years ago. Grand
and beautiful generalizations commanded the admiration of men skilled
in other departments of human knowledge, and equally wonderful ap-
plications of principles to practice touched our every-day existence
upon so many sides as to draw forth applause from the millions who
are without the " inner court." Physics thus found or forced its way
upon the college curriculum to an extent much greater than had j)re-
viously been thought possible or desirable.
A few keen-sighted men, combining in themselves, happily, the
student and the teacher, recognized the fact that thorough instruction
in physics implied and demanded the use of laboratory methods,
such as had been utilized for some years in chemistry, and were
rapidly coming into prominence in every other department of natural
science.
Among these was, notably, Professor Pickering, whose establish-
ment of a working physical laboratory for purposes of instruction, in
the Institute of Technology at Boston, must be regarded as an epoch
in the history of this progress ; and with this also might be linked,
although following at a little later date, the widely-known establish-
ment made by Professor Mayer at Hoboken,
These were quickly followed by others in the East and in the "West,
and at the present time there are many institutions of learning in which
the laboi'atory methods of instruction are in use, and whose equipment
includes a so-called physical laboratory.
To all interested in the study of the present condition of this
vrork I would especially recommend the very valuable " Report on the
Teaching of Chemistry and Physics in the United States," prepared by
Professor Clarke, of the University of Cincinnati, and issued about a
year ago by the Bureau of Education. This report is full of facts
of great value, and doubtless fairly represents the relative standing of
collegiate instruction in these two important subjects at the present
time.
Professor Clarke has classified the various courses of instruction in
physics as follows :
1. Full course, including higher mathematical physics, advanced
laboratory work, and research.
2. Full course, with mathematical physics and elementary labora-
tory work.
