SELECTIOX AV GRAIX-GROWING.
359
Thus in the increased size alone v.'e get an increased crop of forty to
fifty per cent.
The saving of seed from such a practice is immense. The wheat
area of the United States is not less than 40,000,000 acres, and the
average seeding is very much higher than two bushels per acre. But, if
these figures be taken as a basis, we shall not err on the wrong side.
To plant grain at the rate of one berry to each square foot would be
equal to 43,560 grains per acre of 4,840 square yards, or less than two
English quarts. This shows that the farmers of the United States
have it in their power to reduce their consumption of seed-wheat from
80,000,000 bushels to 2,500,000. Good seed-wheat ought certainly to
be worth a dollar a bushel out West, and is worth very much more in
the East ; but on this showing we have a possible saving of 677,500,000
in seed only for the wheat-crop alone. One dollar and a half per head
of the population is worth attention.
The roots of wheat sown in August become by the middle of Octo-
ber so developed as to render it quite safe from lifting by the frost,
and attacks of wire- worm would be almost unknown. If winter wheat
were all drilled by the 10th of September, the entire fall would be at
the farmer's disposal for clearing the land and sowing spring crops
early. The crop could not become winter-proud, or be laid by the
summer rains. The harvest would be from two to three weeks earlier.
The harvest being over at least a fortnight earlier, would be of immense
advantage in clearing the land. Seasons are frequently most unfavor-
able to late-sown cereals, but they are scarcely ever so to early-sown
ones. On well-farmed lands, on the common practice, the average
contents of the wheat-ears must be from 20 to 30. Were it grown on
Major Hallett's system, the average contents would be, at the very
least, from 40 to 60, and far more likely from 60 to 90 ; for under
such a system so small an ear as one of 40 grains is quite the excep-
tion. And this increase of the contents of the ears would be obtained
without any diminution of their number ; the crop, in fact, would be
doubled where now fairly good farming yields 30 bushels to the acre.
These promises are not illusions, since a good many men in European
countries, and in the United States also, have accomplished great
results in agriculture by the application of commonly accepted princi-
ples of science. Major Hallett has himself grown 216 bushels from
three acres with one bushel of seed, or 72 bushels to the acre ; and over
a whole field 82 bushels of barley, weighing 57 pounds to the bushel,
from only two gallons of seed per acre.
In reference to the point of time of sowing, it must be borne in
mind that the rate of growth for wheat during the different months
in England is as follows :
Wheat sown on September 1st comes up in 7 days.
" " October 1st \ , .,, ( " " 14 "
" " November 1st - -l " " 21 "
" December 1st ) ^"'"^°' ( » " 28 "
