360 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Taking this as the relative rate of wheat-growth, Avhen it is uji,
then wheat which is up on the 1st of September makes in the tirst
fifteen days of that month a growth equal to that of the whole of
October ; in the next ten days a growth equal to that of the whole of
November ; and, in the last five days of September, a growth equal
to that of the first twenty days of December ; or, in other words,
wheat up on September 1st has a double autumn for growth before
winter sets in ; and, indeed, the case is in reality much stronger than
this, for, if winter were to set in early, there would be for wheat sown
at the end of October little or no autumn growth above-ground. The
importance of every day (especially the early days) of September
growth can not be overrated. To illustrate this, Miss Hallett made
two very accurate drawings, which her father produced publicly.
They were taken on December 30th, of two plants of wheat, each
from a single grain, one of which was up on September Ist, the
other on September 19th, and had thus lost the growth (after hav-
ing come up) of the first nineteen days of September, the develop-
ment of the earlier being double that of the later. These facts
clearly point to the necessity of sowing in August. Kature, too,
in shedding the grain in August, seems to indicate it as the proper
time, or rather as a not unfit time, or the species would not be per-
petuated. Within the present century it was the custom of many
English farmers to go to wheat-sowing whenever it rained during
harvest.
In determining the sjyace to he assigned to each grain, we must
deal with seed the result of continued selection, for the vital powers of
the different grains of ordinary wheat are so very unequal that it
would be impossible to fix upon any uniform distance. In planting
grains of wheat in August, singly and twelve inches apart each way,
all the requisite conditions of time and space seem to be best fulfilled,
as will be seen further on. Wheat has been planted September 9th,
9 inches X 9 inches, and produced at the rate of 108 bushels per acre.
It must be borne in mind at all times that it is a matter for mature
study and judgment to correctly apportion the quantity of seed to the
time of sowing, and to all the existing surrounding circumstances. A
large quantity of seed sown early is just as much opposed to reason as
a small quantity of seed sown late, and in fact more so, as in the first
case it will become winter-proud and can not succeed, while the sea-
son may be such as to enable the last to do so. As a general basis,
the drilling of wheat on a large scale might be conducted between the
end of August and the 10th of September, at the rate of two to three
gallons per acre ; for each week later to the end of September, a gallon
extra. When observing the unimpeded growth of cereals, there is
seen to exist a striking variation in their modes of growth and powers
of production. The superiority of some individuals over others is so
marked in various ways as to lead irresistibly to the conclusion that
