362 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The toil and misery, disappointment and mortification of skimming
broad acres for meager results must give place to farming for profit.
The change, when it comes, will be aided to some extent by profes-
sional guides and public men, but the foundation for it is within. The
farmer is a near neighbor of hard facts, and living in days when every-
thing is questioned, and nothing is taken for granted — when every in-
stitution in the land has to make good its claim to existence by the
results produced — he is not likely to be deceived, or to grab any
longer at the shadow for the substance. His wealth and happiness
consist not in the number of his acres so much as in the principles of
his farm practice. He will discover, as many of his confreres have
already done, that the future of American agriculture will be deter-
mined by the extent to which fundamental truths of science are ap-
plied.
THE CAUSE OE sea-sice:nt:ss.
Bt eobeet w. lovett.
"TTyHEN such an apparently simple disorder as sea-sickness exists
> V in the midst of mankind for at least two thousand years?
claiming yearly more victims, and all in spite of the best efforts of
medical mankind to overcome it, it becomes of interest to inquire
whether this is because its true nature has never been understood, or
because it is essentially incurable.
The phenomena of sea-sickness are too well known to need detailed
description. Violent and persistent vomiting is associated with it in
most minds, and is the prominent symptom in most cases ; but there are
also a cold, clammy skin, headache, continuous nausea, great prostra-
tion, and indifference, the whole being accompanied by nervous irrita-
bility, and, in most cases, intense mental depression.
Plutarch was, perhaps, the first theorist on the subject. He thought
that sea-sickness was caused by the smell of the salt-water ; and, fol-
lowing him, men have propounded theory after theory, only to leave
us of to-day with a large stock of theories, and but few good results to
show for them.
Perhaps the most acceptable theory to-day is the one which places
the origin of the trouble in the inner ear. The ear consists of three
parts : the outer of these runs in as far as the drum ; the middle part
is inside of the drum, and contains the chain of ear-bones ; while the
inner ear is a complicated affair, containing the essential organ of hear-
ing.
As far as we are concerned, the inner ear is a membranous bag
filled with fluid, and situated in the solid bone. From the back part
of this bag run out three semicircular tubes communicating at both
