THE CAUSE OF SEA-SICKNESS. 363
their ends with the bag or vestibule. These run in three different
planes, and are lined with hair-like nerve-filaments, which are much
more abundant and more sensitive at the anterior part of the tubes.
The tubes are filled with liquid in which float little calcareous par-
ticles, the otoliths. These tubes are known as the semicircular canals.
It was difiicult to see what connection with the sense of hearing these
canals could possibly have, and some time ago it was noticed that in-
juries to these impaired the sense of hearing in no way, but caused most
curious effects in the loss of equilibrium.
For instance, in pigeons, when the vertical canal was cut, the bird
turned a series of back somersaults ; and, when the horizontal canal
was cut, the pigeon whirled around in an horizontal plane, in every case
tending to rotate in the plane of the canal which was cut. And what
is especially interesting to us is, that in these and other experiments
iritation or injury to these canals was almost invariably followed by
vomiting. Experiments, by Professor Ferrier and others, point to a
very close relation between these canals and the sense of equilibrium,
and an especially strong suggestion is given by the disease known as
labyrinthine vertigo, or Meniere's disease. This is characterized by an
irritated and congested condition of these semicircular canals, due to
some internal cause, and its symptoms are the same throbbing in the
head, the pale, cold skin, and vomiting, as in sea-sickness, and in
addition the patient reels and staggers, being unable to keep his bal-
ance. In this disease we seem to have the exact reverse of sea-sick-
ness, the irritated condition of the canals causing the unusual move-
ments of the body ; whereas in sea-sickness we have the unusual move-
ments of the body which result from the pitching of the ship, causing
the irritation of the canals, and in both'cases the irritated state of the
semicircular canals is accompanied by vomiting. The mechanical ex-
planation of why such irregular motion should cause irritation of the
canals seems simple. By the pitching movements of the ship, which
are by far the worst, the head is carried backward and forward
through a long arc. At the end of the descent the head stops, but by
its inertia the fluid in the canals rushes on and washes the otoliths up
against the nerve-filaments at the front of the canals. These are ex-
tremely sensitive, and the repetition of this process a few times serves
to establish an excessive irritation which is expressed by giddiness and
vomiting. Why such gradual motions should cause sea-sickness, while
much more violent ones, such as horseback-riding, do not, can only be
explained by saying that in the more violent ones the individual has a
stimulus to adapt his positions to the motion, which he has not in the
often unnoticed pitching of a ship. At any rate, this theory explains
why lying down should afford relief, as the otoliths then rest at the
back and less sensitive part of the canals ; and it also exj^lains why
riding backward should cause nausea and giddiness, as here, of course,
the otoliths drag behind and irritate the anterior parts of the canals.
