364 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Moreover, in some recent inquiries addressed to deaf-mntes upon another
subject, the fact was noticed that all who were insusceptible to dizzi-
ness on account of the impairment of their semicircular canals by dis-
ease reported themselves also exempt from sea-sickness.
But the semicircular canals must not receive all the credit. The
viscera of the abdomen arc very full of blood, and irritated in sea-
sickness, and this condition will cause vomiting, as shown by very
many experiments on animals. The intestines are attached loosely to
the backbone by a fold of membrane containing some very large
blood-vessels. Ordinarily the intestines are held up and supported in
place by the muscles of the abdomen, and consequently do not drag
too heavily on their attachment. But in sea-sickness, it is said, either
on account of confused messages sent to them from the irritated semi-
circular canals, or because of the novelty and uncertainty of the mo-
tions of the ship, these muscles are unable to tell when to contract and
when to relax, thus affording but poor support to the intestines. Con-
sequently by their inertia the intestines bulge forward at the end
of each descent of the ship, thereby stretching and irritating their
attachment, and in consequence the abdominal blood-vessels are
engorged with blood, and this condition is expressed by vomiting,
which is merely Nature's effort to equalize the circulation. Force is
lent to this view of sea-sickness by the fact that jumping from a
great height causes fearful nausea on reaching the ground — in this
case also the intestines pushing forward the abdominal wall and
stretching their attachment.
There is probably a minor kind of sea-sickness, caused by the mere
churning about of food in the stomach, irritating the nerves there as
they would be irritated by a dose of mustard. This is often the sort
experienced in small boats, and is at once relieved by vomiting.
The power of the imagination as one of the causes of sea-sickness
ought not to go without some mention. Whether or not it is more
powerful here than in other diseases it would be hard to say, but so
prominent is the mental effort that Mr. Bache some years ago wrote
a very interesting article on the subject, in which he maintained that
sea-sickness was wholly of mental origin ; that the idea of motion was
the result of the concurrent testimony of the senses ; and that in a
new motion, where there was a conflict of impressions, the brain was
disturbed. He said that motion caused nausea in two cases — 1. When
the motion of the observer's body is in doubt ; 2. When the motion is
acknowledged by the mind but the motion is not felt. But, however
attractive this may be, it offers us little that is tangible. Of the very
many other causes suggested, it seems only necessary to name the
prominent ones. Naylor suggested spasm of the capillaries of the
brain. Barris attributed it to the instability of surrounding objects.
Stocker thinks it largely due to a partial vacuum in the lungs. Wol-
laston believed it was caused by the rise and fall of blood in the
