388 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
small jiart of the weight. Engineer Koebling says that the cables
are strong enough to pull up the anchorages, but, as each of these
■vroighs 00,000 tons, they probably will never be called upon to perform
that feat.
The roadway on the approaches is 100 feet wide, on the spans 85
feet. The outside avenxies are for vehicles, the next two are car-tracks,
and a footway 10 feet wide occupies the middle. This latter is paved
with asphalt as far as the anchorage, and is only three feet above the
driveways. Here it rises by a flight of steps to a plank walk twelve
feet above the driveways, from which a clear view over both sides of
the bridge can be had. To prevent danger in case the brakes should
fail to control a train coming down the incline of the roadway, the
ear-tracks are kept at the same level for the last COO feet on each ap-
proach, which brings them out at about the level of the elevated roads.
The cai"s are to be propelled by means of an endless wire rope, which
will run between the rails of each track, over grooved wheels, set up-
right 25^ feet apart. Motion is communicated to the rope by two
stationary engines located on the Brooklyn side. It is calculated that
the cars can take 80,000 passengers across in an hour, that 50,000 more
can cross on the promenade, while the driveways will accommodate
nearly 1,500 vehicles an hour.
The roadway is lighted by 70 electric lights, set on posts upon the
trusses that run between the car-tracks and carriage-ways.
The bridge, which had been fourteen years in building, was for-
mally opened May 24, 1883. Up to April 1st there had been paid out
on the work $14,429,003.25, and the expenses then remaining to be
met will bring the cost up to nearly §10,000,000. In length of span
the Brooklyn Bridge surpasses every other bridge in the world. The
span of Roebling's Niagara suspension-bridge is 821 feet, a little more
than half as great ; the span of the suspension-bridge at Fribourg,
built in 1832, the longest in Europe, is 870 feet ; while Roebling's
Cincinnati bridge, which has the second longest span in the world,
measures 1,057 feet between the towers, or about two thirds the length
of the East River span.
THE IXDUSTRIAL POSITION OF WOMEN.
By EMILY BLACKWELL, M. D.
AMONG all the questions affecting women, and society through
women, there is none more vital than that of their industrial
position. It is conceded that women should work, but there is a great
difference of opinion as to what their work is, and how they should
do it. This difference of public opinion is not merely a matter of
theory ; it leads to very positive practical results, for the support of
