392 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
they prefer. They are not to be found as nurses, seamstresses, and
chambermaids in wealthy families, but rather as the sole workers in
small and simple country families, where they have the kitchen to
themselves, and the contrast between the social position of themselves
and their employers is not so great.
In all such matters feeling is quicker than reason. Every woman
instinctively feels that, in exchanging the position of an outside worker
for that of domestic service, she descends one step in the social scale,
and approaches one degree nearer to personal servitude. Upon what
does this servile nature of domestic service depend ? It is not due
simply to difference of wealtb and social standing ; that difference
exists everywhere between the employer and the employed. It is due
to the conditions under which the work is done in the house, each
servant dependent upon the mistress in the details of her personal life,
doing work more or less undefined in its nature, amount, and time of
doing. These conditions imply a direct, perpetual, personal subordi-
nation, necessarily servile. It is the absence of these conditions that
renders non-domestic work independent, instead of servile. The limi-
tation of the work within certain hours, outside of which all subordi-
nation or accountability to the employer ceases, the freedom of per-
sonal life thus gained, the more defined nature of the work, its larger
scale, the numerous workers engaged in it — all these characteristics
render the relation between employer and employed a business, not a
personal one.
We can only imagine the servile character absent from domestic
service in a state of society so simple and homogeneous that the work
of each family was done by its own women ; and one in which there
were so few women not required at home that they could be absorbed
by those families in which there was a paucity of women, and there
work upon an equal footing with the wives and daughters. Is there
anything in the tendencies of modern life pointing to such a state of
society ? Are they not sweeping us in an entirely different direction ?
Would it not be more in accordance with the forces shaping modern
life to suppose that the problem of domestic service will be solved
rather by changing the mode in which domestic work is done, than the
relative position of mistress and servant ? Will not such a change be
the natural result of a continuance of the process which has already
transferred one occupation after another from the sphere of domestic
work to that of business organization ? Is it not inevitable that all
the material arrangements of life shall ultimately thus be taken pos-
session of ?
There is no reason why what is now done by domestic service should
always continue to be so done. As weaving and tailoring have gone,
so the making of women's and children's clothing is now going. There
is no reason inherent in the nature of things why washing, cooking,
mending, etc., should not go also, and be done by business organiza-
