THE INDUSTRIAL POSITION OF WOMEN. 393
tions from outside, instead of by domestic service. Thus domestic
work will be reduced to the minimum, to that part most intimately
connected with the personal life of the family. The need of domestic
service will diminish in the same proportion, and the problem it pre-
sents will be solved by its diminution, or gradual disappearance ; while
domestic life will be more and more freed from the necessity of carry-
inor on a variet^ of domestic work.
The obstacles to be overcome in bringing about this result do not
differ in kind from those which are disappearing elsewhere before the
ingenuity and perseverance of business enterprise. The difficulties in
the way of supplying cooked instead of raw food are very similar to
those being now overcome in the transport of delicate and perishable
food, and in the preserving such food in perfection through the whole
year. There is no reason why bakers should necessarily supply inferior
bread, or why cooking done on a large scale should always be inferior
to that done at home. That the work which remains to be so dealt
with is the most difficult to be thus treated is the reason it has re-
mained to the last. That our efforts in this direction are as yet at-
tended by imperfect success is no proof that this will always be the
case. Until business organization has advanced so far as to do the
work as well as the same can be done at home, and more conveniently
and cheaply, its imperfection will keep up our present system of do-
mestic service.
It may be objected that so radical a change in the conditions of
household work must imply the destruction of the home as we at present
understand, it. But why should this be the result of the changes to
come, any more than of the equally great changes that have been already
accomplished ? The dread of it arises from the same sort of feeling
which has made it so difficult for geologists to accept the fact that
the wonderful changes recorded upon the surface of the earth have
been accomplished by the same agencies which are at work upon it
to-day, so silently as to be imperceptible to the multitude.
It may be objected that the failure to marry is the reason so many
women are seeking employment ; and that, were marriage sufficiently
universal, the immense majority of women would be occupied in their
own homes. Facts do not seem to bear out this view. The propor-
tion of persons who pass through life unmarried is comparatively small.
The mass of working-women is composed not of middle-aged single
women, to whom alone the criticism could refer that they have pre-
ferred other work to marriage. The great bulk is composed of young
women under twenty-five, whose families can not afford to support them
for the sake of their domestic work, and the majority of these will
probably eventually marry. There is also a considerable number of
married women who, by the death or inability of the husband, are
thrown back upon the necessity of self-support. This last is a much
larger class than is usually supposed. It would probably at least equal
