AFRICAN PSYCHOLOGY. 399
not bear on all sides the complaint that, from the highest forms of
braiu-work to the lowest forms of band-work, the strain requisite for
success breaks down prematurely those w^ho follow them ? Is not the
choice, too often, virtually between immediate death from want, or a
more gradual and protracted death from overwork, or the unhealthy
conditions of work ?
Our organization of labor is exceedingly one-sided and imperfect.
It is directed almost exclusively to the advancement of the work, with-
out any reference to the welfare of the worker. We have a long way
to go before we can be rid of the most crying evils of our present
state.
It is only too evident that we have not yet solved the most funda-
mental problems in regard to labor, when we see such glaring contra-
dictions as produce spoiling in the fields because there is no market
for it, and mills stopping work because the market is over-supplied,
when at the same time thousands are suffering from want of food and
clothes. So long as the relations between workers and work are so
imperfect, the hardships thus entailed must fall upon women as well
as upon men.
One of the first requisites for improvement is to know the direction
in which effort should be made. We must learn to distinguish the
movement of the tide from the eddy caused by resistance to its ad-
vance. One of the greatest difficulties in the way of freedom of work
for women will be removed when once it is recognized that in this di-
rection is the onward movement of the current, however turbid it may
be from the obstacles that disturb its course.
AFEICATs^ PSYCHOLOGY.
By max BUCHNEE.
ALL of those parts of South Africa which are under the dominion
of the Bantu race are ethnographically so homogeneous that
the essential facts that may be stated of one tribe apply almost exactly
to all, and the differences in dress, stature, color of the skin, utensils
and weapons, ornaments, customs, and ideas, which are produced by
external and different temporary, not local, changes only, are limited
in every case by the same lines. Many of the photographs brought
by my friend and colleague Buchta from the Egyptian Soodan might
as well have come from the territory I explored, diagonally opposite
to it. The language of King IMtesa's W^aganda has the same gram-
matical structure as that of the Angolese, and the vocabularies of both
people have numerous similar words.
