400 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The negro in his native condition is not apparently of a lower
grade of natural intelligence llian the European of the common class.
He probably excels the European in a kind of selfish cunning, Avhile
the restraint of moral scruples and of the finer feelings operates less
strongly upon him. Yet he is not destitute of a sort of moral in-
stinct, of a kind of taboo-conscience, that causes him to hesitate to do
wrong. If he can not resist the temptation, he resorts to sophistics to
give himself an apparent justification. This is a remarkably well-de-
veloped trait in his character. For this reason the negro is never an
open thief, but will always seek or make an excuse, under the opera-
tion of which his robbery may be caused to appear in the light of a
reparation made to him. Of such character are the numerous nii-
longas which play so great a part in the life of the traveling trader,
the name of which, a much-used word of unpleasant sound, combines
in itself various equivocal ideas of criminal process, liability to penal-
ties, oppression, and a great clamor. As an exami^le of the milonga,
we may notice a favorite trick among several of the tribes of sending
their women into the camps of passing traders to tempt their members
by coquettish behavior. On the slightest occasion, the men, who have
been watching, rush in in a threatening way, and demand a quantity
of goods as a recompense for the affront that has been offered them.
The trader has to satisfy them, for he has not force enough to resist
them. Another trick is to leave manioc-roots or baskets of grain in
the road, where the hungry travelers may be pi'ompted to take them
up, when a similar scene of surprise and extortion will be enacted.
The negro is above everything positivist, practical, and materialist,
and is inaccessible to intangible considerations. He is not, it is true,
destitute of a sense of beauty, and has a word for the idea. But al-
though, other conditions being the same, he will prefer a handsome
woman to an ugly one, he is always moved by practical views in his
choice. "With this practicality is associated the persistent propensity
toward falsehood that makes the traveler's way so hard. Hunger and
thirst, heat and cold, fever and privation have, I confess, often proved
less wearing upon me than the impossibility of ascertaining a fact by
means of direct questioning ; and I have frequently, in ray vain strug-
gles after clear information, been tempted to anathematize language
as a tool of error. In indifferent matters the negro will say the first
thing that occurs to him, because that is the easiest ; in matters that
touch his interest, such as the value of anything he may have for sale,
no reply will suit him better than a false one. To these two incentives
to lying — indifference and cunning — is added a third, the sense of the
comic which much questioning arouses within him. Some traders are
able to enjoy the stories the blacks tell under such circumstances ; and
they are perhaps harmless, unless the traveler puts them into his note-
book and prints them for truth. The negro's moods are cheerful and
wanton, superficial and changeable. Passion and hysterical anger are
