AFRICAN PSYCHOLOGY. 401
not uncommon, but they pass away as suddenly as they come on.
Lasting friendships are not known. Relations apparently the closest
are suddenly broken uj) or changed into enmity by the most insignifi-
cant causes.
Melancholy tones can hardly be attributed to the negro spirit, and
I would have averred that suicide was inconceivable among them, had
I not learned from trustworthy sources that instances of it had oc-
curred. These were, however, only among more nearly civilized indi-
viduals. The ruling passions of the race concern the gratification of
pleasure and greed for property. The most serious troubles originate
in these spheres. The theft of a goat will afford a chief a more ready
provocation for war than a box on the ear. The ideas of honor and
manliness are almost wholly wanting, at least among the common men.
Blows are unpleasant to them only in so far as they cause pain. They
■will bear the cuffs of their lord with resignation and as matters of
course, as a part of the contract, while they will most likely toward
strangers put themselves timidly and passively in an attitude of de-
fense.
The question, " Has the negro a religion ? " can not be answered at
once either aflirmatively or negatively. It must first be made clear
what is to be understood by religion. If it be defined as a system of
conceptions, aspirations, hopes, and apprehensions, and the moral pre-
cepts suggested by their operation, then the negro has no religion. If
we call a confused mixture of vague wants and superstitious impulses
a religion, then he has one. We might, perhaps, say more correctly
that the common human weaknesses which are among ordinary motives
of religion — feelings of anxiety, longings, illusions, fancies, and the
corresponding efforts to get light — are not wanting in the negro, but
he lacks the deep reflective power to build up a symmetrical structure
out of his theological raw material. As the nesrro is in the habit of
dreaming of his dead relatives, and is very apt to imagine that this or
that dead person allows him no rest in the night, and must be silenced
by propitiatory offerings, he is not very far from believing in the im-
mortality of the soul. I have frequently inquired of the most intelli-
gent blacks under my command, of those who had been baptized and
considered themselves Christians, what they thought of their future
after death, and have never received any other answer than that " then
life will be at an end, and we shall be buried in the ground and eaten
by worms."
They have a word, nsamhi, which might be translated by "God."
The following are examples of the way it is used : Dinlee dia nsambi,
God's sky ; Kalunga Jca nsamhi, God's sea ; dikemhi dia nsamhi, God's
sun ; dikua dia nsambi, God's axe — the name of a grass that cuts very
badly ; the name nsamhi is also applied to the mantis, or praying
insect. Personally and practically hoAvever, this nsamhi, as my Au-
gustus once told me, is of no interest to the negroes. He does them
VOL. xxui. — 26
