AFRICAX PSYCHOLOGY. 403
a kind of a rattle, utters some appropriate sentence, while the peti-
tioner repeats it in unison with him. Particularly well-trained pray-
ing-masters deliver themselves of the prayer in a high falsetto, which
appears to them to have a more insinuating, and therefore more
effective, sound. There is no real priest class. There are negroes
accustomed to daily religious exercises, like devotees among us ; but
of earnestness and devotion, in the sense in which we understand
those terms, not a trace can be observed. The cheerfulness of the
negro temperament is never suppressed. If a person happens to come
upon any of their religious exercises, and betrays an expression of
amusement, the whole company of worshipers Avill break out into
laughter, and be glad that their demeanor has been found so pleasing.
Aside from the fear of wicked fetiches, which is a great source of
trouble, and from the pleasure of trading, which occasionally carries
him hither and thither, the life of the negro passes with a uniform
freedom from care. He is born, brought up, takes a wife, begets
offspring, grows old, and dies, without having undergone any train-
ing, gone to school, had to choose a calling, or been subject to any
other kind of anxiety. He has no regularly recurring festivals ; but
the revelries on the occasion of a death in the connection or in the
circle of neighbors and friends are often protracted through many
days or even weeks. How many years old he is he neither knows nor
cares.
A system for computing time' can hardly be predicated of such a
people ; but they have a kind of superficial calendar of the months,
which they make to help regulate their agricultural operations. The
Angola negroes count the moons during the period of cultivation,
and indicate them by numbers from one to ten. During the dry
season, when agriculture is dormant, the calendar also is asleep. In
August, when the distant lightning announces the approach of the
rainy season, the women start out to clear the fields for the crops ; and,
as soon as the ground has been wet by the first rains, they plant their
ground-nuts. The moon in which this is done is the first. The divis-
ions of the day are measured off according to the place of the sun in
the sky.
The often asked and variously answered question of the capacity
of the negro for civilization applies in an equal degree to him and to
all other savage people. It arises more frequently with respect to the
negro, only because the attention of philanthropic men has been more
prominently directed to him. It must be answered in his favor. The
negro undoubtedly possesses all the capacity for education and civili-
zation to at least as great an extent as our primitive ancestors had it.
But, just as our ancestors could not at once and immediately emerge
from barbarism into our present conditions of many-sided development
and refinement, so \\q have no reason to expect that the African sav-
ages can, in one or two generations, reach the standard of modem
