404 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Europeans. The fact that the psychical and intellectual, as well as
the physical, diflfercnces between particular races of men are really in-
signiticant, is destined to be made more plain the more the subject is
impartially studied, and the efforts of certain men, learned in distinc-
tions of types, to set up fixed marks of separation between them, will
not succeed. — Translated for the Pojmlar Science Monthly from '"'■Das
Axidand^''
SKETCH OF DR. WILLIAM FAER.
DR. WILLIA^I FARR, who died on the 14th of April last, aged
seventy-six, was the founder of the English system of vital
statistics, and was chiefly instrumental in bringing it to its present
state of perfection ; and, in the measure that the study of the sta-
tistical tables has furnished facts for the guidance of sanitary officers,
he may be said to have contributed directly and very greatly to the
improvement that took place in the public health conditions of Great
Britain during his career.
Dr. Farr was born at Kenley, Shropshire, England, in 1807. He
went to school at Dorrington and Shrewsbury, then entered upon a
university course in Paris, and concluded his studies in the University
of London, in 1831, He served for six months as house-surgeon of
Shrewsbury Infirmary, subsequently began the practice and teaching
of medicine in London, and afterward edited for some time the
"Medical Annual" and the " British Annals of Medicine." In this
work he exhibited a power of statistical analysis that attracted the
attention of the proprietor of the " Lancet," and he became a constant
and valued contributor to that journal, of articles dealing chiefly with
vital and medical statistics. He thus acquired a reputation in this
line of work, which induced his selection by the Government, in 1838,
as compiler of abstracts in the newly-created office of the Registrar-
General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages. An act of Parliament was
passed directing that a statement of the cause of death should be in-
serted in connection with the registry of the fact, and Dr. Farr was
assigned this work specifically on account of his known capacity for
statistically analyzing the materials that would come under his eye ;
the registrar-general stating in his first report that the assignment
had been made to him as "a gentleman of the medical profession,
whose scientific knowledge and intimate acquaintance with statistical
inquiries were ample pledges of his peculiar fitness." For forty years
in succession Dr. Farr's reports of his analyses were presented to the
registrar-general to form one of the most important parts of his re-
ports, and were the medium for contributing facts, the practical ap-
