SKETCH OF DR. WILLIAM FARR. ^07
grant me superannuation allowance to the extent of my full pay.
I have served under you nearly forty year^, I have taken with you
three censuses and I feel confident that I can leave my case in your
hands."
Dr. Farr's health failed so rapidly after his retirement that he was
soon practically lost to the field of scientific labor in which he had
been so long engaged, " and which he had graced," says an English
journal, "not only with exceptional intellectual power, but with a
genial modesty which charmed all with whom he was brought into
contact." His scientific friends, who always regretted that the value
of his services had not been recognized and better appreciated by
the Government, took measures to raise a testimonial fund for him.
Subscriptions were obtained to the amount of nearly a thousand
pounds sterling, and this sum was invested at his request, and al-
lowed to accumulate for the benefit of his daughters. An effort is
now to be made to obtain a grant from the civil list to his daughters,
in connection with which it has been remarked that the value of his
work has been more unreservedly acknowledged on the Continent and
in America than in his own country, where it has not yet received
the recognition it is entitled to at the hands of the nation and its
Government.
Dr. Farr's admirable personal and social qualities were well known
and esteemed by all who had the privilege of meeting him and being
associated with him at scientific assemblies. He was modest, kindly,
genial, and bright in his manner, and had a generous appreciation of
the services of others. " He was deservedly popular," writes one of his
biographers, " in the best sense of that word, and, while the friends who
mourn his loss on public and private grounds are innumerable, it seems
impossible, to those who knew him, to believe in his having a single
enemy."
"As a vital statistician," says an English professional writer, in
noticing his death, " Dr. Farr's name and work are inseparably bound
up with the rise and progress of a science which he had made peculiarly
his own. ... It was the national faith in Dr. Farr, personally, as a
vital statistician that invested with so much confidence the registrar-
general's statistics, which shed so clear a light upon the black figures
of our urban mortality statistics, and thus strengthened the hands of
other workers in the field of sanitary reform."
