LOS
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
CORRESPONDENCE.
SEWAGE AT THE SEA-SIDE.
Me»*r*. Editor*:
ALETTE R in the " Christian Advocate "
for March 22d denies the charges
made in my article in the " Monthly " lor
March, as to the unhygienic conilition of
Ocean Grove during the crowded jicriods of
past seasons. An editorial in the same
number of the " Advocate " and another
two weeks later call attention to this let-
ter, and challenge '' The Popular Science
Monthly " " either to prove or retract "
these charges. The editor, who says that
he is " witliout personal knowledge " of the
conditions of the place, assumes that Ocean
Grove has been slandered from anti-religious
motives, aiid avers " that the determining
reason which animated the singling out of
Ocean Grove for special mention as a sinner
above all others in sanitary matters was,
. . . because it was, as the writer phrases
it, a religious resort."
Now, the writer indignantly disclaims the
charge that the question of religion pre-
sented itself to her mind. It would, in-
deed, be a strange association of ideas that
could make her attack on bad sewage an
assault upon religion. Moreover, it is evi-
dent that this editor was not only " without
personal knowledge " of the place he cham-
pions, but that he was also without personal
knowledge of the article which he criticises.
Otherwise he presumably would not apply
the masculine gender to a writer giving a
name purely feminine, nor complain of the
"singling out of Ocean Grove," when it was
one of six places mentioned, and only twelve
lines were given to it. That I was not alone
in my criticism is naively acknowledged by
the editor in characterizing it as " one of
various unwarranted attacks," and in his
saying that " Ocean Grove has not been ex-
cepted from the unfavorable comments "
that have been made on various sea-side
resorts, and that " the intimations have
continued and become rumors detrimental
to the character of the place as a health
resort."
The letter above referred to is from the
Rev. E. H. Stokes, President of the Ocean
Grove Camp - Meeting Association. Mr.
Stokes says: "All our large hotels, and
many of our larger cottages, eighty in num-
ber, have sewer connections . . . Tiie
sewer runs up into the camp-ground occu-
pied bv tents, and takes off all the dopos-
its, both of privy and cesspool from there.
Tlie grounds on which the tents are located
are thoroughly raked over every morning,
and the air is pure." From the writer's
personal observation extending over a pe-
riod of three summers, she denies that the
sanitation of Ocean Grove was then even
tolerably good. Her account, written in
August, 1882, on the spot, and sent to the
" Jlonthly " in September, did not overesti-
mate the crowding, nor the effects of the
imperfect means which existed for remov-
ing fecal accumulations. This was matter
of common repute ; everybody could smell
the vile odors, and many physicians de-
nounced the unsanitary condition of the
place. Both the State and the National
Boards of Health took notice of these things
in their reports for 18S2. The former states
that in Ocean Grove "the system of water-
closet disposal is varied, and depends too
much upon the will of each family. The
town should ultimately adopt either a pub-
lic system of weekly dry removal, or con-
nect all closets, both indoors and out, with
a sewer system." It is further advised be-
cause Ocean Grove is "so much of a camp-
ing-place for the summer, that to the pails
thus occupied the strict rules of military
sanitary police should be applied and exe-
cuted by an insjjcctor constantly on duty."
"The Sanitarian" for April 5,"] 883, pub-
lished an abstract of a " Keport on the At-
lantic Coast Resorts," made by E. W. Bow-
ditch, C. E., to the National Board of Health,
in which is this statement : " The watering-
places on the Atlantic coast of New Jer-
sey are all more or less in a transition state ;
few have adequate water-supplies, and none
are supplied with sewers." Dr. Bowditch
thus practically ignored the attempts at sew-
erage made by the authorities of Atlantic
City and Asbury Park, as well as of Ocean
Grove.
These authorities, and the statement of
the writer's own experience, will perhaps
refute the " Advocate " editor's assertion
that, " without knowledge of any facts, the
reckless charges were penned," and the still
more vigorous language of the Rev. Mr.
Stokes, who arrogates a thorough knowledge
of the five other places criticised, when he
writes, " I pronounce the whole article
false " ! A virtual confession of the truth
of the charges is made by the activity dis-
played du)ing the winter in remedying the
causes of complaint. Faults in construction
of the Asbury Park sewers have been
remedied, and some eighteen thousand feet
of sewer-pipe have been laid in Ocean
Grove. Fletcher Lake, which last summer
was filled with muck, has been cleaned out
