EDITOR'S TABLE.
409
and transformed into a respectable body of
water. These and other hygienic improve-
ments which have followed in the wake of
the fault-finder will doubtless render Ocean
Grove and its close neighbor, Asbury Park,
satisfactory places for visitors during the
season of 1 883. That the past winter's work
is likely to prove efficient may be gathered
from Mr. Stokes's letter, in which he says,
"The State Hoard of Hialtli reports that
the sanitary matters of the Grove progress
satisfactorily."
It is hoped that the pleasure with which
this account is given of a better sanitary
prospect for the present summer over that
of former years will prove previous charges
of improper drainage to have been made
only in that spirit which sounds an alarm
to prevent danger.
Alice Htseman Rhine.
COST OF LIFE.
MeMrt. Editors:
In an article in the June number of your
magazine, entitled "Cost of Life," there are
some mathematical calculations, or rather
blunders, that make one wonder how they
could have been put forth in any journal,
though making less claims to science than
your valuable magazine. It is gravely stated
that a man weighing 150 pounds upon the
earth would, upon the planet Jupiter (hav-
ing 300 times the earth's mass), weigh 4.5,000
pounds = 22 J- tons. The relative mass of
Mars is said to be /„ that of the earth, and,
therefore, the man spoken of above would
weigh only 2+ pounds upon Mars. Now, if
the law of attraction as first announced by
Newton, and now taught to every .=choolboy,
is correct, the weight of the above man
upon Jupiter would be 2'55 (two and -,^0)
times his weight upon the earth = 382^
pounds — enough to make him decidedly un-
comfortable, but still not quite 22^ tons.
In regard to Mars there are two errors : first,
his mass is i^„^, that of the earth, not g^, as
stated ; second, if it were g^,, it would not
be right to divide 150 by 60, for that would
disregard a very essential part of the great
law or laws of gravitation. If the radius
of Mars is '52 that of the earth, would not
the supposed man weigh, if placed upon his
surface, 61 pounds ?
There may be some errors in these cor-
rections, but I think they are trifling com-
pared with those in Mr. Pratt's article.
R. S. BOsWORTU.
Wateetowx, New York, Hay 21, l3i3.
Messrs. Editors:
Allow me to call attention to certain
assertions in the article headed " Cost of
Life" in the June number of your journal.
The points I speak of relate to gravity on
the planets, and the statements made in re-
gard thereto. It is declared that a man of
150 pounds weight would on Jupiter weigh
about 45,000 pounds. It is an elementary
truth in physics that gravity decreases as
the square of the distance increases ; where-
fore, although Jupiter is more than 300
times as heavy as the earth, its diameter is
more than eleven times that of the earth,
and the relative weight must be divided by
the Kqnare of the ratio. In this case the
divisor is more than 121. The best deter-
minations of the force of gravity on Jujjiter
give it at a little less than two and three
fourths that on the earth. So the man of
150 pounds would, on Jupiter, weigh about
400 pounds, not that enormous figure quoted
above.
So, gravity on Mars is more than half
that on the earth, and our man would weigh
80 pounds, not 2i, as given in the article.
Every similar statement in the whole course
of the discussion is as badly in error as
these here noticed.
It is well known that the destructive
effect of a bullet fired by an explosive de-
pends not on the power of gravity, but on
that of the powder; and the philosophers
who, on Mars, should attempt to catch bul-
lets in their hands, might rue their philos-
ophy. As science, the article harmonizes
well with the kind in which Jules Verne is
accustomed to indulge.
R. W. McFarlasd.
Ohio Statb Univee^itt,
Columbus, May 2-3, 1553.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
THE BACK-DOWy OF DR. DIX.
OUR friend Dr. Dix has deserted us.
We have received divers sarcastic
congratulations upon our new ecclesi-
astical alliance, implying that we had
made no great acquisition, but we could
not anticipate that we should be left in
the lurch so soon. We were taken with
the impressive declamation about the
supremacy of the home sphere in the
life of woman, and when Dr. Dix said,
"These considerations give the turn to
every thought of ours about woman's
work " — and of course the preparation
