4io
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
for it, we supposed that this was a liv-
ing and stable couviotiou to be con-
sistently carried into practice when-
ever opportunity arose. But, if we
rightly interpret subsequent develop-
ments, our confidence was sadly mis-
placed.
For no sooner had Dr. Dix made
proclamation of his views on the woman
question, than a rare opportunity was
afforded him to reduce them to appli-
cation in a large and influential way.
The Association for the Promotion of
the Higher Education of Woman, in
New York, had petitioned the author-
ities of Columbia College to admit
women to their institution that they
might obtain this " higher education."
The petition was referred to a com-
mittee, of which Dr. Dix was chair-
man, and he is declared to be the
author of the report that was made
upon the subject. It was decided not
to admit women to co-education, and it
■was further declared that Columbia
was not able to establish an adjunct
institution for the use of female stu-
dents; but it was offered that, if the
women or their friends would provide
their own separate accommodations,
Columbia College would take charge
of the teaching ; and, in anticipation
of this possible event, the committee
prepared such a scheme of studies as
it deemed suitable for the purpose in
view, viz., to afford woman the facilities
for a " higher education" than is now
assumed to be available.
Dr. Dix, as we have intimated,
drew up this report and framed the
curriculum approved by the committee.
The situation was thus in every respect
most favorable for putting female edu-
cation upon a higher and more rational
basis, and conforming it to the require-
ments of the feminine character as a
preparation for woman's practical life.
There were no trammels, the institu-
tion was to be newly constituted, and
there was no reason for not appealing
to first principles in shaping the scheme
of studies and embodying all that has
been gained in the progress of educa-
tion. Moreover, there were abundant
precedents for shaping the course of
studies to the highest ends of practical
usefulness. Columbia College has al-
ready appended to it a group of colleges
devoted to applied knowledge — a min-
ing school, a medical school, a law
school, a school of arts, and a school of
political science. There was therefore
full freedom to construct a new curric-
ulum for female students designed to do
whatever a " higher education " can
accomplish for the improvement and
elevation of woman.
It might have been thought most for-
tunate that the subject was mainly in
the hands of a man who had given spe-
cial and earnest attention to the ques-
tion, and avowed fundamental convic-
tions which had a potent and salutary
bearing upon the result to be attained.
Dr. Dix had said : " The place and work
of woman in this world are a place and
work in social life ; and her place and
work are not tViose of the man." He
had said : " Whatever it be in thought,
deed, or will that works among us now
to break up the home, to make the home
idea mean and contemptible in the eyes
of woman, or to unfit her for domestic
duties, and disgust her with her proper
work, whatever now acts on her high-
wrought nature, her ambition, her self-
love, to turn her steps away from the
home-life, and inflate her with visions
of a career in the public places outside —
this, whatever it be, is working against
the best interests, the hope, the happi-'
ness of the human race." Could it be
imagined that one who had so vivid a
conception of womanly nature and des-
tiny, such an appreciation of the higher
sphere of her legitimate activities, and
so earnest a conviction of the pervert-
ing influences to which she is exposed,
would frame a working scheme expli-
citly designed to mold the feminine char-
acter in which these guiding ideas are
wholly ignored? Yet this is the anom-
