EDITOR'S TABLE.
411
alous fact. Drawing up a plan of
culture specifically tor a sex, nay, for
" the sex," the all-controlling element
of sex and its vital implications are
passed by as if they bad no existence.
Dr. Dix has prepared a programme of
feminine collegiate study in which there
is no more recognition of the claims
of the home as an object of cultivated
thought than there is in the curriculuras
of colleges exclusively for men. lie
proposes a course of training which will
preoccupy woman for at least a dozen
of her most impressible years with a
range of acquisitions that have no defi-
nite or distinct relation to home inter-
ests, and in which the "certificated"
young lady can come out as proficient-
ly ignorant of all these matters as
the " graduated " young gentleman.
His programme, which embraces nine
groups of subjects* to occupy four col-
lege years, and involves an elaborate
preparation for entrance, has not even
a corner for physiology, not to speak
of other subjects which should be fun-
damental in any rational system of
liigher female education.
The satirical writer on education
must have had Dr. Dix's plan in view in
penning the following well-known pas-
sage : " If by some strange chance not a
vestige of us descended to the remote
future save a pile of our school-books
or some college examination-papers, we
may imagine how puzzled an antiquary
of the period would be in finding in
them no indication that the learners
were ever likely to be parents. ' This
must have been the curriculum for their
celibates,' we may fancy him conclud-
ing. ' I perceive here an elaborate prep-
aration for many things, especially for
♦ Dr. Dix's college course for women : 1.
The Enijlish hn5nia<?e and literature. 2. Modern
lanjruaiiea and foreiirn literature. 3. The Latin
lauijiia^e and literniure. 4. Greek language and
literature. 5. HiHtoryand political science. C.
Moral and intellectual philosophy. 7. Mathe-
matics. 8. Physics, chemistry, and hygiene. 9.
Natural history, geology, paleontology, botany'
and zoology.
reading the books of extinct nations and
of co-existing nations (from which, in-
deed, it seems clear that these people
had very little worth reading in their
own tongue) ; but I find no reference
whatever to the bringing up of children.
They could not have been so absurd as
to omit all training for this gravest of
responsibilities. Evidently, then, this
was the school course of one of their
monastic orders.' "
PEKING DA Y OF THE SUSPENDED
EIGHWA Y.
ALTnoTTGH all the world has been
abundantly apprised of the fact, yet
there is pleasure in still repeating that
the opening of the new and splen-
did bridge over the East River, con-
necting the cities of Brooklyn and New
York, on the 24th of May, was a most
successful affair. The grand structure,
a monument alike of the marvelous
progress of science and art, of con-
structive genius, and of business enter-
prise, was recognized by all as a credit
to the generation, and the impulse was
spontaneous and universal to join in the
tributes of honor to the founders and
promoters of the enterprise, living and
dead, on the occasion of the completion
of the work. Business was therefore
widely suspended in the two cities ; the
day of opening became a holiday, and
countless thousands of the people gath-
ered to witness the impressive cere-
monies, and to express the enthusiastic
gratification that filled all minds at the
triumphant event. The ceremonies were
appropriate and imposing. Parades and
salutes, festivities and fire-works, and
all the demonstrative accompaniments
of high satisfaction, made the day and
night memorable among popular cel-
ebrations. The oratorical garnishing
was, of course, profuse, varied, and ex-
cellent, for the theme was well calcu-
lated to bring out eloquence of utter-
ance. But the address of Hon. A. S.
Hewitt was perhaps the most felicitous
