EDITOR'S TABLE.
413
future working upon domestic life. The
imlustrial progress of mankind, as is
well known, has been carried forward
by the division of labor, in which,
through greater proficiency of special-
ized work, improved machinery, and
efficient organization, the productive
capacities of society have been much
diversified and augmented. Dr. Black-
well's argument is that this great social
tendency has taken eflfect upon the do-
mestic sphere, and must take much fur-
ther eifect by removing those forms of
domestic labor with which women have
been so long burdened, to the outside
sphere of business organization. She
maintains that woman must follow out
these industries into the outer field of
competition, or be left without the
means of subsistence; while, by thus
getting rid of all work hitherto called
domestic, she will achieve her libera-
tion from that home bondage of which
she has so long been the victim. The
social movement here referred to has
two effects — the enlargement of exter-
nal competition for woman, and a cor-
responding diminution of the internal
sphere of home occupation. We must
very briefly object to Dr. Blackwell's
views upon both points.
As to the industrial tendencies of
social evolution invoked by Dr. Black-
well, she seems to have left out the
most important, and, indeed, in this
case, an all-determining consideration.
"While the common ditferentiations of
industry are a result of progress, that
between the sexes is not a result of
progress. The division of labor be-
tween the sexes is primordial — older
and deeper than all social development,
and a fundamental condition to it. Any
one who will consult the comprehen-
sive " Cyclopsedia of Descriptive So-
ciology," by Herbert Spencer, and refer
to the operative division of his tabu-
lar summaries, will find superabundant
proofs that in the very lowest stages of
all savage societies there was a funda-
mental and universal separation in the
active spheres of the sexes, so that "no
division of labor except that between
the sexes " becomes almost a stereo-
typed formula. Men devoted them-
selves to hunting, fishing, and war,
for the maintenance of the life of the
tribe, while women cooked the food,
made the clothes, took care of the chil-
dren, and occupied themselves chiefly
with the drudgeries of the rude home.
Thus, before industries began to take
any separate shape, there was already
a division of occupations so broad and
clear as to be evidently grounded in
the nature of things, and all the subse-
quent progress of mankind has been
achieved in subordination to it. The
first great specialization of human ac-
tivities is, therefore, not a product of
social evolution. We have here to
do with a fact of exceptional import,
deeply grounded in the constitution of
things, and not to be studied as an ef-
fect of social progress. And in its es-
sential quality, moreover, this separa-
tion of the spheres of action of men
and women is totally difl:erent from the
ordinary differentiations of industry.
The historic relation of the sexes, in
regard to their distinctive spheres of
action, is a non-competitive relation.
The family arose not merely by a union
of the sexes in marriage, but by a union
of interests which made their respective
spheres of occupation supplementary to
each other. There is here no industrial
rivalry, but the common ambition cen-
ters in the prosperity of the home.
This is the fixed order observed equally
in all stages of progress. As men fished,
hunted, and fought in thepre-industrial
stages of society, while women were oc-
cupied with the domestic cares, so the
men still labor without, struggling with
their fellows in the arena of business,
and earning wealth which it is their
pleasure and pride to expend upon the
home and for the advantage of the fam-
ily, while wives and mothers co-operate
in the household sphere, contributing
their indispensable and co-equal share
