4U
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to the common domestic welfare. But
the relation of woman throughout has
not only been non-competitive, but the
funilamontal fact in the case is that it
has been a relation of protection. Not
more in tl>e predatory life of the sav-
age than in the highest civilized life,
woman lias been the protected sex.
Her security, and through it the main-
tenance of the social order, and the
progress that has resulted, have not
arisen from the independent competi-
tive struggles uf woman, but from tiie
identification of lier interests with those
of man, through the division of their
spheres of action. We await the rea-
sons which are to convince us that
these deeply-grounded relations must
not continue throughout the future of
humanity. The precipitation of woman
into the outer world of conflicts, where
the strongest have their way, would in-
volve a dissolution of human society,
and is not even possible as an experi-
ment. Granting that the protection of
woman has always been, and is still,
very imperfect, progress must consist
in making it more perfect, and not in
subverting the order of which it is a
natural and necessary part.
And now lot us note the correlative
effect upon the home of Dr. Blackwell's
thorough-going social reform, and point
out its radical error. She says : " There
is no reason why what is now done by
domestic service should always continue
to be 60 done. As weaving and tailor-
ing have gone, so the making of wom-
en's and children's clothing is now go-
ing. There is no reason inherent in the
nature of things why washing, cooking,
mending, etc., should not go also, and
be done by business organizations from
outside, instead of by domestic service.
Thus domestic work will be reduced to
tlie minimum, to that part most inti-
mately connected with the personal life
of the family. The need of domestic
service will diminish in the same pro-
portion, and the problem it presents
will be solved by its diminution or grad-
ual disappearance." But tliis process
of the ''gradual disappearance" of do-
mestic activities and their relegation
to outside organization is to be carried
still further, so as to remove from the
home the nurture of even "very young
children." "There is nothing which
would seem more absolutely dependent
upon the mother than the care and
training of very young children. Yet
the careful study of the best modes of
training these early years, which has
come in with the Kindergarten, shows
how far the nursery alone is from meet-
ing their needs; how early and how
much skilled teachers, other children,
a variety of apparatus — that is, outside
help — are desirable for the best inter-
ests of the child, as well as for the as-
sistance of the mother."
It is not surprising that Dr. Black-
well should anticipate the very natural
objection " that so radical a change in
the conditions of household work must
imply the destruction of the home as
we at present understand it." She in-
timates that the dread is illusive, but
she by no means replies to the objec-
tion. And that the logic of her posi-
tion leads inevitably to this result is
undeniable. For, when the process of
removing all that can be removed from
the domestic sphere, and handing it
over to outside organization, is com-
pleted, not a remnant of family life "as
we at present understand it" can re-
main. As spinning and weaving, brew-
ing and drying fruits, tailoring and
knitting, butter and cheese making,
have gone, so washing, mending, sew-
ing, and cooking can go also in the same
way, and the sick can be sent out to the
hospitals. And when the Kindergar-
ten becomes a state institution, and
"compulsory education" takes away
the " very youug children " to he cared
for by outside arrangements, and all
kinds of domestic occupation are thus
eliminated, it might appear that the
home has been reduced to its mini-
mum as a place for the bare organic
