LITERARY NOTICES.
419
ary enthusiasm, and perhaps through a di-
vergency of views which became settled in
the later period of life. Both men went
through important transitional stages in
their mental experience, Emerson escaping
from the transcendentalism of which he was
the early apostle, and is said to have been
the inventor, in New England ; and Carlyle
escaping from the intense radicalism of his
opening career into the pessimistic con-
servatism of his maturer years. The work,
therefore, has abundant interest as a study
of character through the free disclosures of
a copious and varied private correspond-
ence. In the first place they were both men
of unrivaled powers of expression, and the
highest capacity of analyzing their own
mental conditions, and presenting them with
vividness and original force. It is, perhaps,
not to be supposed that they were uncon-
scious that what they said would ultimately
be given to the world ; but this considera-
tion operated as but a partial restraint upon
the freedom of their communications. They
were both men of opinions — thinkers, doc-
trinaires, students of men and society — and
therefore had much to say pertaining to
contemporary events, especially in the field
of current speculation, and in relation to the
literary phenomena of their period. They
spoke with a liberty about contemporary
men in the world of authorship which gives
a pungent interest to the letters, and which
was sometimes carried so far that the editor
is constrained to disguise the names of
parties implicated. But the strictures made
were generally within such proper limits
that no such editorial intervention was ne-
cessary. The two men are here pictured
by themselves in their full individualities.
These, of course, are shown in their respect-
ive writings, and it can hardly be said that
there are any new disclosures in the corre-
spondence that can much revise or affect
the judgment of those who are already fa-
miliar with their books ; but the result of a
penisal of their letters is like turning on the
gas which brings everything out into greater
distinctness. It is unnecessary, of course,
to commend these volumes to the attention
of readers. All those who are familiar with
the thought and the history of these men as
authors, displayed in their successive publi-
cations, are certain to procure and peruse
this correspondence. But Carlyle and Em-
erson now belong to the past, and the new
generation of readers can be but partially
familiar with those stages of mental devel-
opment through which they passed many
years since, and which were eagerly observed
by their contemporaries as they went for-
ward with the issue of their books. For
those younger readers, therefore, to whom
these authors are historic, the volumes be-
fore us may be recommended as full of
special instructiveness in interpreting the
character and position of these men whose
eminent position will be permanent in the
literature of the future.
TuE Examination of Medicinal Chemicals :
A Guide for thb Determination of their
Identity AND Quality. Illustrated ; third
edition, revised and enlarged. By Fred-
erick Hoffmann, A. M., Ph. D., Public
Analyst to the State of Xew York, etc.,
and Frederick B. Power, Ph. D., Pro-
fessor of Analytical Chemistry in the
Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. Phil-
adelphia : Henry C. Lea's Son & Co. Pp.
624. Price, $4.25.
The present edition of this valuable work
contains a large amount of new matter, and
has been adapted to the recent editions of
the United States and German Pharmaco-
poeias. Part I describes the operations and
reagents necessary for analytical work, gives
a system of qualitative analysis, directions
for volumetric analysis, and for detecting
the most important alkaloids. Part II de-
scribes the various substances that are used
medicinally, giving their physical and chem-
ical properties, the impurities that are to be
looked for in each, and the way to detect
them, and, whenever desirable, a method of
assay. Under their appropriate heads are
given directions for testing for the impor-
tant poisons in forensic investigations, pro-
cesses for the determination of glycerine in
wine and beer, of the alkaloids in cinchona-
barks, etc., and rules for the dilution of the
important acids, etc., together with tables of
the strength of solutions.
The authors have aimed to make each
article complete in itself, preferring to re-
peat text and illustrations rather than send
the reader to several cross-references. The
volume is well supplied with illustrations of
apparatus and forms of crystals, and con.
tains unusually detailed tables of equivalent
