420
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MOXTHLY.
wiight.>, measures, and temperature, in the
decimal and the old system. It has been
brought up to the latest established results
in its department, and can not fail to be a
valuable possession to every one whose busi-
ness it is to prepare, prescribe, or dispense
medicines.
The Possibility of not Dyino : a SpECtr-
LATioN. By IItland C. Kirk. New
York: G. P. Putnam's Sous. Pp. 112.
Price, 75 cents.
The author of this speculation says :
" The proposition ' all men are mortal ' is
an unsound assumption — unsound because
not based on actual knowledge. Men sub-
jected to certain conditions are mortal. This
is a true proposition. That men subjected
to certain other conditions may be immor-
tal, we can not deny. As knowledge is, our
subject involves merely a matter of uncer-
tainty, unless data can be procured such as
shall afford means of determining the truth."
The author then goes back, as usual, to
Columbus and Galileo, to show that both in
the realms of discovery and invention sup-
positions generally regarded as absurd have
proved to be correct. And as the doctrine
of the sphericity of the earth was once held
to be absurd, but is now proved to be true, j
he maintains that the theory of physical im- j
mortality, though now regarded as absurd,
may yet be found true. i
Moreover, it is a great time now for \
progress of all sorts, and after the telegraph
and phonograph and telephone, who shall
assume to say what may come ne.tt ? The I
secret of earthly immortality has been !
dreamed about a great deal, and patentable
arts of prolonging life indefinitely are no
novelty. Paracelsus announced that he had
found the elixir of life by which men might
be enabled to live forever, but, as he died \
himself in middle age, the announcement
seems to have been premature, the inven- [
tion, like that of perpetual motion, having
been probably not quite perfected. Mr. Kirk
oflEers no contrivance by which death may
be escaped, but he is full of ingenious rea-
sonings to sliow the theoretic possibility
that, by a system of right living, earthly life
could be made to last forever.
Mr. Kirk argues that the end he proposes
is desirable, which is far from certain. The
question is very seriously mooted nowadays
whether, even in its brevity, "life is worth
living " at all ; but it is pretty clear, at any
rate, that it is only tolerable through its
brevity. The experiment of trying life for
a time is certainly interesting; but the most
beneficent part of the arrangement is, that
its eternal continuance can be escaped, at
least in this state of being. Mr. Kirk con-
siders the matter from the point of view of
evolution, which, as it raises humanity to
a plane of higher possibilities, may find
everlasting life among them. But evolution
seems to be made possible only through
death — by constantly getting rid of the less
perfect to make room for the more perfect.
Shortening life multiplies lives, so that while
the vital stream is continuous, in an im-
mortal progress, individuals arc replaced in
the succession by better ones, and, if there
be the slightest advantage in living, it is
increased by the indefinite multiplication of
separate lives. If any one set could find a
way of holding on, would there not be an
end of evolution ? We are much inclined
to think that it would be hard to conceive
anything more calamitous than to have Mr.
Kirk's reform practically carried out. Even
now the " Old Hunker " element in human
affairs defies everything but death, but what
kind of a world would this be if the Civil-
Service Commission could confer upon office-
holders an immortal tenure ?
Bllletin of the United St.vtes Fish Com-
mission. Vol. I, for 1881. Washing-
ton : Government Printing-Office. Pp.
406, with Twenty-one Plates.
To secure a more speedy dissemination
of the information collected by the Pish
Commission, it has been authorized to pub-
lish an annual "Bulletin," of the edition of
which a part is to be distributed signature
by signature (in the sheets as they are print-
ed), and the rest in bound volumes. The
present is the first of the series of volumes.
It contains a large number of papers of va-
ried importance on the different aspects of
fish-culture and fishing, with a tfible of con-
tents arranged alphabetically by authors, and
an admirable index. Among the papers of
more general interest are those on " Recent
Contributions to Pond Cultivation," " Treat-
ment of Fish-Egss at Sea," " The Dry Trans-
mission of Fish-Eggs," " The Destruction of
