LITERARY NOTICES.
421
Young Fish by Unsuitable Fishing Imple-
ments," " The Winter Iladdock-Fishery of
New England," "The Influence on the Coast
Fisheries of the Steamers used in the Men-
haden Fishery," " Ariilicial Culture of Me-
dicinal Leeches and of Species of Helix,"
and " Changes in the Fisheries of the Great
Lakes during the Decade 1870-1880."
Electro-Magnets: The Determination of
THE Elements of their Construction.
By Th. Dl- Moncel. New York : D. Van
Nostrand. Pp. 122. Trice, 50 cents.
The author's purpose is to give a plain,
practical essay on the subject, adapted to
the use of amateurs, experimenters, and
working artisans, as well as of students.
Though the laws on which the formulas are
based have not been fully verified, yet re-
sults have been obtained so nearly approach-
ing verification as to make it safe to ad-
mit them as guides in the construction of
electro-magnets.
A Perpetual Calendar. By President F.
A. P. Barnard. Price, 40 cents.
The calendar, though having a rather
complicated appearance at first sight, be-
comes simple and easy of operation when its
theory is once explained. It consists of a
sheet of stiff pasteboard, to the top of which
is attached a revolving disk bearing the
names of the months and the numbers from
1 to 99, while the main sheet contains seven
parallel columns of the days of the month.
The disk should be properly set to the col-
umns at the beginning of each )'ear ; then
the day of the month can be found on look-
ing for it.
Pocket Logarithms, to Four Places of
Decimals. New York : D. Van Xos-
trand. Pp. 139. Price, 50 cents.
Surveyors and other persons engaged in
field-work often find themselves in need of
tables of logarithms in a form which they
can conveniently carry with them. The
present volume is for the use of such per-
sons. Its four-place tables give as close an
accuracy as is likely to be required in field-
work. They include the logarithm? of num-
bers, and logarithmic sines and tangents to
single minutes, with a tal)le of natural sines,
tangents, and co-tangents.
First Annual Report of toe Bureau of
Ethnology to the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, 1879-80. By
J. W. Powell, Director. Illustrated.
Washington : Government Printing-of-
fice. Pp. tJU3.
The act of Congress of March 3, 1879,
which established the United States Geologi-
cal Survey, made provision for continuing,
under the direction of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, the anthropologic work that had
been carried on by the earUer surveys. The
methods of the new bureau have been,
"first, the prosecution of research by the
direct employment of scholars and special-
ists ; and, second, by inciting and guiding
research immediately conducted by collabo-
rators at work throughout the country." The
latter division of the work has been fur-
thered by distributing manuals upon various
branches of the study, designed to make
the investigations of independent workers
systematic and thorough. Being convinced
that the social institutions of the Indians
can not be understood without a knowledge
of the means adapted to express accurately
the ideas embodied in those institutions,
Major Powell has directed a large share
of attention to language, and about two
thirds of the present volume is occupied by
papers on that subject. The longest of these
is one by Lieutenant-Colonel Garrick Mal-
lery on " Sign Language among North Amer-
ican Indians compared with that among
other Peoples and Deaf-Mutes." This is
drawn up merely as a report of progress,
and consists of a part of the data on this
subject that have been obtained by the
bureau. A large number of Indian signs
are herein graphically described and fully il-
lustrated, though perhaps more space is given
to describing the signs of other peoples than
is absolutely necessary for purposes of com-
parison. A paper by the director describes
quite a complete system of government that
exists among the Wyandots ; and another,
also by Major Powell, is an interesting and
thoughtful sketch of " Indian Mythology."
The contribution of greatest popular inter-
est is a second paper by Dr. II. C. Yarrow
on mortuary customs, which embodies many
communications from recent investigators,
together with a large number of extracts
from writers who have touched upon this
subject within the last two hundred years.
