LITERARY NOTICES.
423
Mancal of assaying Gold, Silver, Cop-
per, AND Lead Ores. By Walter Lee
Brown, B. 8c. Chicago : Jansen, Mc-
Clurg & Co. Pp. 318. With Illustra-
tions. Price, $1.75.
The author of this manual has aimed to
produce a guide for those who, having had
no previous training in chemical work, wish
to learn assaying. Hence, he gives first full
descriptions of the apparatus required, gen-
erally with illustrations, names of makers,
and prices. The reagents are as fully de-
scribed, and, wherever necessary, methods
of preparing and testing them are given.
The processes of assaying arc detailed with
great clearness, from the crushing of the
ore to the estimation of its value per ton,
and in the appendix are given various
special methods of assay, lists of minerals
likely to contain gold, silver, copper, or lead,
a list of books on assaying, various depai-t-
luents of chemistry, mineralogy, mim'ng law,
etc., and useful tables. The volume is got
up in much better style than is usual with
scientific and technical manuals.
liEPORTS OF Experiments, chiefly with
Kerosene, upon the Lnsects injuriously
affkcting the Ouange-Tree and the
Cotton-Plant, llade under the Direc-
tion of the United States Entomologist.
Washington : Government Printing-Of-
fice. Pp. 62.
The expediency of using kerosene has
been disputed, chiefly on account of the
danger of its injuring the plants. The ob-
jection is applicable to pure kerosene, and
with greater force as regards some species
than others. Professor Riley advises that
kerosene be used with caution where its ef-
fects arc not already known, and never be
employed pure. With this reservation, his
own experience and that of his assistants
shows that neither lye nor whale-oil soap,
the other substances recommended, " bears
comparison with an effectual kerosene emul-
sion as an effectual destroyer of scale-in-
sects and their eggs."
Shade-Trees, Indigenous SiTRrns, and
Vines. By J. T. Stewart, M. D. Second
edition, revised and improved. Peoria,
111. : Transcript Publishing Company.
Pp. 37.
This paper was prepared with particular
reference to the city of Peoria, and was
read by request, in December last, before the
Scientific Association of that place. It is
the fruit of many years of observation and
much careful study, and consists chiefly of
notes on native species and their adapta-
bility to the soil, climate, and situation of
Peoria, with directions for their cultivation
and care. Much of it is applicable to other
places than Peoria.
Professional Papers of the Corps of
Engineers, United States Army. No.
24. Report upon the Primary Triangu-
lation of the United States Lake Sur-
vey. W^ith 30 Plates. By Lieutenant-
Colonel C. B. Comstock. Washington :
Government Printing-Office. Pp. 922.
This is the final report of the survey, be-
gun in 1841, of the Northern and Northwest-
ern lakes. The work is described under the
headings, " Standards of Length, Bases, and
Base Apparatus." " Primary Triangulation,"
" Astronomical Determinations," and " Prin-
cipal Results of the Geodetic Work." A
short history of the survey is prefixed to
the volume.
Astronomical Papers, prepared for the Use
of the American Ephemeris and Nautical
Almanac, under the Direction of Simon
Newcomb, Ph.D., LL. D. Vol. L
Washington : Bureau of Navigation,
Navy Department. Pp. 487.
In this volume is begun the publication
of a series of papers whose objects are " a
systematic determination of the constants of
astronomy from the best existing data, a
reinvestigation of the theories of the celes-
tial motions, and the preparation of tables,
formula?, and precepts for the construction
of ephemerides, and for other ai)plication3
of the results." The present volume con-
tains papers on the " Recurrence of Solar
Eclipses," " Hansen's Lunar Theory," " A
Determination of the Velocity of Light,"
"A Catalogue of 1,098 Standard Clock and
Zodiacal Stars," on " Gauss's Method of
computing Secular Perturbations," and a
" Discussion of Transits of Mercury from
1677 to 1881."
The Bacteria. Bv T. J. Birrill, Ph. D.
Springfield, 111.": II. W. Korker, State
Printer. Pp. 65, with Illustrations.
Everybody wants to know all about the
bacteria which have been found to play so
