POPULAR MISCELLANY.
427
polysulphide of calcium, a one-in-fivc solu-
tion of chloride of manganese, a one-in-five
solution of sulphate of iron, a one-in-five
solution of borate of soda, a onc-in-five solu-
tion of tannic acid, a one-in-ten solution of
sulphate of quinine, a one-half solution of
hyposulphite of soda, essence of turpentine,
and monobromide of camphor ; of gases,
ammonia, sulphurous acid, and chloroform.
A saturated solution of oxalic acid, a one-in-
twcuty solution of permanganate of potash,
a oue-in-five solution of soda, vapor of chlo-
rine, and sulphide of carbon, destroyed the
fresh virus, but had no efifect on that which
had been dried, while the activity of the lat-
ter was destroyed only by solutions of car-
bolic acid (two per cent), salicylic acid (1 in
1,000), nitrate of silver (1 in 1,000), sul-
phate of copper (1 in 5), boric acid (1 in 5),
saturated salicylic alcohol, corrosive subli-
mate (1 in 5,000), and bromine vapor. Thus
many substances, unanimously regarded as
antiseptic, were without effect upon the
virus, even in the fresh state. This is the
case with pure and camphorated alcohol,
with which surgeons are accustomed to
wash their instruments, quicklime, with
which dead bodies are consumed, etc.
The Poisons in Tobacco-Smoke. — Herr
Kissling, of Bremen, has published a useful
paper on the poisonous constituents of to-
bacco-smoke, among which he specifies as
strong in quality, carbonic oxide, sulphuret-
ed hydrogen, prussic acid, picoline bases,
and nicotine. The first three substances,
however, occur in such small proportions,
and their volatility is so great, that their
share in the action of tobacco-smoke on the
system may be neglected. The picoline
bases, too, are present in comparatively
small quantity ; so that the poisonous char-
acter of the smoke may be almost exclu-
sively attributed to the large proportion of
nicotine present. Only a small part of the
nicotine in a cigar is destroyed by the proc-
ess of smoking, and a relatively large pro-
portion passes off with the smoke. The
proportion of nicotine in the smoke de-
pends, of course, essentially on the kind of
tobacco ; but the relative amount of nico-
tine which passes from a cigar into smoke
depends chiefly on how far the cigar has
b^'cn smoked, as the nicotine-content of the
unsmoked part of a cigar is in inverse ratio
to the size of this part — that is, more nico-
tine the shorter the part. Evidently, in a
burning cigar, the slowly advancing zone
of glow drives before it the distillable mat-
ters, so that in the yet unburncd portion a
constant accumulation of them takes place.
More, relatively, of this substance passes
into smoke in the case of cigars that are
poor in nicotine than in the case of cigars
with much of that substance. Nicotine,
notwithstanding its high boiling-point, has
remarkable volatility.
Fisheries of Xew York. — According to
the reports of the Census Bureau, New York
is fourth in the list of fish-producing States
the value of its products being $4,380,565,
but it holds a still more prominent position
in several special branches. Its menhaden-
fisheries are more extensive than those of
any other State, its yield of the products
of that branch being more than half that
of the whole country. The value of its
oyster-products, ^l.oTVjOoO, is greater than
that of any of the other States, except
Maryland, Virginia, and New Jersey. It
returns the largest quantities of clams, both
hard and soft ; and it ranks third in respect
to the shad-fisheries. Seven thousand two
hundred and sixty-six of its inhabitants,
and §2,629,585 of capital are engaged in
the fishing industries.
Liquid Air and Solid Alcoliol. — M. Cail-
letet, a French chemist, some time ago suc-
ceeded, by liquefying ethyline and causing it
to boil, in producing a temperature of — 105°
C. (—157° Fahr.), at which he liquefied a
few gases under strong pressure, and even
caused oxygen to approach the liquid state.
M. Wroblewski, of Cracow, one of his pu-
pils, continuing the experiments, has, by boil-
ing liquid ethyline in a vacuum, produced
a temperature of —136° C. (212^° Fahr.), at
which sulphuret of carbon and alcohol were
congealed, and oxygen and nitrogen became
liquid. The change in the form of oxygen
was obtained on the 9th of April in three
experiments in which the conditions of
prcj^sure (22i to 2Gi atmospheres) and tem-
perature were slightly but not essentially
varied. Liquid oxygen is transparent and
colorless, differing in this from ozone, which
