42S
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
is deep blue. Liquid nitrogen has a similar
appearance. Sulpluirct of carbon is a white
solid at — 116° C, but becomes liquid when
raised to —110° C. At —130° C, alcohol
assumes the form of a white solid, which
becomes viscous at — 129°. Carbonic oxide
was liquefied under similar conditions with
nitrogen.
indent Cities In Gnatemala. — Mr. A. P.
Maudslav, at one of the recent meetings of
the London Geogi-aphical Society, described
some ruined cities in Guatemala which he
had visited during parts of the winters of
ISSl and 1882. At Quirigua, not a very
great distance from Livingstone, the Atlan-
tic port of the country, the ruins consist of
raised terraces or mounds, usually faced with
stone, and elaborately carved monoliths, rep-
resenting human and animal figures, situated
near them. The upright monoliths meas-
ure from three to five feet across the sides,
stand from twelve to twenty-five feet out
of the ground, and bear human figures, of
which the heads are sculptured in high re-
lief, and are usually surmounted by gro-
tesque masks, whence spring elaborately
carved head-dresses. The body and dress
are covered with the most intricate and
elaborate oraament, in which small human
faces and grotesque forms frequently occur.
Of the animal shaped stones, some had
curved claws and indications of armor like
that of an armadillo, and held a human
head, apparently the head of a woman, be-
tween their jaws. The largest of these
stones, which was estimated to weigh about
eighteen tons, represented a turtle, whose
head was replaced by a huge grotesque hu-
man head, while in place of its tail was a
life-sized figure of a woman sitting cross-
legged, and holding in her hand a manikin
scepter somewhat resembling the children's
toy of a monkey on a stick. The whole sur-
face of the stone was covered with a profu-
sion of ornaments. All of the monuments
bore hieroglyphics and carved tablets —
probably symbolical — of curious character.
At Tikal, in the extreme northern part of
the state, all the houses were made of stone,
and coated with plaster, with walls about
three feet thick, and the roofs built in the
form of gables, without any attempt at an
arch. The most imposing buildings are the
five temples raised on almost pyramidal
foundations. Beams of sapota-wood were
used in supporting the building, and many
of them remain in various states of pres-
ervation, while all were elaborately carved.
The ruins of Usumacinta, on the river of
the same name, and on the border of the
Mexican State of Chiapas, were visited for
the first time. The houses are more spa-
cious than those at Tikal, and the lintel-
beams are of stone, and handsomely carved.
One of the houses, which is described as a
typical specimen, is built on a succession of
terraces ; the first terrace, seventy-three feet
long by seventeen feet broad, has three
doorways, each with a rather poorly carved
stone lintel, and is finished off with a pro-
jecting cornice. Above it is a second course
of eleven feet of stone-work, and over this
is a hollow superstructure, looking like a
pigeon-house with numerous pigeon-holes.
The entire height of the building is about
forty-two feet. The whole house has been
covered with stucco, and painted in various
colors. On the second story are three large
and eight small panels, which once held hu-
man figures molded in plaster ; and in the
center of the " pigeon-hole " course is an-
other panel, which once contained a figure
of more than twice the size of life. Only
parts of these figures now remain, but
enough to indicate what they were. Inside
the house is a great stone idol, twice the
size of life, well carved and sitting cross-
legged, with its hands on its knees, like the
figures of Buddha ; the remains of a can-
opy of ornamental plaster-work were found
near it. Remains of circular stone altars
were found in different parts of the ruins,
and earthen pots, partly filled with some
half-burned resinous substance. The La-
candone Indians, who live here, speak the
Maya dialect of Yucatan, and were ob-
served to be lighter colored than Mr. Mauds-
lay's Indian workmen, and to have thick
lips, a prominent nose, and an extraordina-
ry receding forehead, nearly resembling the
foreheads represented on the carved stones.
Their only weapons, so far as Mr. Mauds-
lay could see, were stone-tipped arrows.
Their communities were often at war with
each other, generally on account of the ef-
forts of one or the other to carry off wom-
en. The pots of half-burned incense found
