43°
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
of social life often makes it seem that the
closing of the school is indispensable to the
checking of the disease. The necessity of
such an extreme measure may, however, be
nearly always prevented by the exercise of
proper foresight. The teacher should be
watchful of absences and their causes, and
should give notice, when infectious disease
is in question, to the proper officers. The
sick p«pil should then be isolated from the
well ones, and his home and family sur-
rounded with the most rigorous sanitary
precautions for not less than eight weeks.
Dr. David Page, sanitary officer of West-
moreland, England, has always avoided the
necessity of extreme measures by adhering
to these principles. The school should be
closed only when it has obviously become a
starting-point of infection, or when the con-
trol specified above can not be exercised.
The term of suspension must be determined
by circumstances, and can not be previously
regulated, but a premature reopening should
be avoided ; and the reopening should be
preceded by a thorough disinfection, by
fumigation with sulphur and washing the
walls with lime and the wood-work with soap
and carbolic acid. The continuance of day-
schools during the prevalence of scarlatina
is justified, says Dr. Page, when the children
would be otherwise exposed to much risk in
playing about their doors with children of
infected families, and with those barely re-
covered from illness. Under such circum-
stances, always provided that due supervis-
ion over infected families is maintained, a
child runs less risk in regular attendance at
school. But in scattered country districts,
where the children coming from all points
are brought together only during school-
hours, the breaking up of the school is the
best and safest course.
Earth-Tromors. — The committee ap-
pointed by the British Association, two or
three years ago, to measure the lunar dis-
turbance of gravity, have met with unex-
pected difficulties in the accomplishment
of their task, and have substantially given
it up as for the present unattainable. The
Messrs. Darwin, who undertook the obser-
vations at Cambridge, found that, as soon
as they had made their instrument sensitive
enough to record the lunar disturbances.
they had to deal with other disturbances,
" so incessant and so lawless that the steady
march of the lunar swing was utterly over-
borne and lost." The earth was never really
still. It quivered and throbbed and warped
and bent under the pendulum night and day,
and even, as it seemed, in the absence of all
merely local agencies that could be detect-
ed." A situation at the bottom of a deep
mine was then suggested, but with no bet-
ter success. The earth yields there under the
operation of deep-reaching causes that can
not be got rid of, and which produce effects
of the same order of magnitude as the di-
rect effect of the moon, and are at present
inextricably entangled with it. These causes
are the varying mass of the air, that shifts
and changes according to the indications of
the barometer, and the varying mass of the
water on the shores, that shifts and change*
with the tides. It is easy enough to believe
that, when a mountain-mass is set down
upon the earth, the crust must yield and a
depression form at the spot upon which the
excess of weight is placed. "But it was
probably never imagined till now that, when
the barometer rises an inch over a land area
like that of Australia, the increased load of
air sinks the entire continent two or three
inches below the normal level. Over a like
sea area the water surface may be depressed
a foot or more. Thus, as the mass of air
sweeps in wind or creeps by slower convec-
tion from place to place, the yielding earth
sways up and down beneath its weight " ; a
depression is formed, toward the center of
which the surface slopes from all sides, and
the plumb-line ceases to be perpendicular
to the surface. The mass of air which hov-
ers over the spot also acts like a moun-
tain and draws the pendulum toward it;
the two effects are superimposed, and the
apparent displacement of the vertical is ex-
aggerated. The two influences always act
together, and are proportional ; and this
twofold deviation is of the same order as
that which the moon produces, but is per-
petually varying and incalculable. It there-
fore vitiates all pendulum observations. The
tides exercise a similar power, depressing
the shore at the flood and allowing it to rise
at the ebb. The advance and retreat of the
water will also tell on the plummet by mere
attraction. The lead will seem to be pulled
