432
TlIK POPULAR SCIENCE MOXTHLY.
TnE Cockcville Iron and Ptcel Company
at Soi-aiiiL', Iklgiuni, ciBploying about ton
thousand workiucn of all kinds, maintains
free night-schools, which are attended by
about two thousand boys and adults from
the woiks ; an industrial or technical school,
which is attended by about eighty fitters and
boiler-makers, and by the clever young men
in all the departments; and a mining-school,
w ith two hundred students. In the steel de-
partment all the young men under eighteen
are required to attend the night-school, and
those who willfully absent themselves are
liable to expul.-ion. At the great zinc-w orks
Dear Liege, also, the apprentices are re-
quired to attend evening-schools.
The Davenport (Iowa) Academy of Sci-
ences has recently received from the Kev. J.
Gass a number of the peculiar " curved-
base " mound-builders' pipes. One of them
is a finely carved stag's head, representing
the antlers bent around the bowl, in relief ;
another is an eagle, perched and holding
some small animal in its claws ; two others
are neatly carved birds ; another is a finely
sculptured blaik bear; a sixth is supi)osed
to represent a f<>.\, with the face turned i
backward ; a seventh is a nondescript aui- |
mal. Others are plain. The bear is cut
from a black stone ; the other pipes are in
ash-colored pipestone or red catlinite.
Up to the present date, we understand,
there have been received in answer to the
official letter of inquiry to the members of
the British Association, as to whether they
intended to go to ^lontreal or not, replies in
the affirmative from three hundred and for-
ty. Among these are a good niany w ho may
be said to be really representative of Eng-
lish science, but, as might be expected, the
younger men are present in a larger pro-
portion than the older. — Xature.
Pierre Carbonnier, the distinguished
French pisciculturist, has recently died. lie
was the author of several monographs on the
natural history and cultivation of fishes, and
contributed many papers to scientific jour-
nals. He was also director of the Aquarium
of the Trocadero at the French Exhibition !
of 1878.
Mr. W. S. Barnard, of the Department
of Agriculture, observes that ants may do
valuable service as destroyers of larvit and
insects, particularly of the cotton - worm,
which appears to be fiercely attacked by all
the species. Even the smallest ant all alone
will assault and worry the worm, and the
insects af)pear plentiful in all the fields.
They dispatch the younger worms very
quickly, but the older ones more often es-
cape. Ants are, however, detrimental, though '
indirectly, to vegetation, in that they protect '
aphides or plant-lice by keeping off the in- ,
sects that would prey upon them. This they i
do for the sake of the honey-dew which
the lice excrete while sucking the juices of
the plants on which they live. It may be
noticed that plants suffer most from aphides
where ants are most numerous.
The agricultural interests of the south
of France have been nearly ruined by the
substitution of the artificial alizarine for
madder in dyeing, the silk-w orm disease, and
the phylloxera. The cultivation of madder
will have to be given up, for it can not
again be made profitable. The disasters
wrought by the silk-worm disease and the
phylloxera, now that remedies have been
discovered, may be reiJiiired in time. To
expedite the recovery of the depressed agri-
culture, an extensive scheme of irrigation
has been arranged, by vhich water will be
drawn from the river Rhone in canals, and
distributed to all the country within reach.
Mr. George Sctton, of Aurora, Indiana,
traces the causes of the floods in the West-
ern rivers to the great aerial currents which
bring on extensive storms indej^endently of
local influences, now in the Missouri, now
in the Mississippi, now in the Ohio Valley,
in sunjmer or winter as the storms may oc-
cur. Whenever four inches of water fall
suddenly over the seventy-seven thousand
square miles of the Ohio Valley, a rise of
sixty-thiee feet will be produced in the river
at Cincinnati ; and if the ground be deeply
frozen and heavily covered \<ith snow, the
flood will be much higher. What the peo-
ple of the river \ alleys need to enable them
to avoid disaster fiom fiords is to know be-
forehand the height to which the water will
rise, and this may be deti rmined by ascer-
taining how much rain is falling. The Sig-
nal-Service Office could provide this informa-
tion by systematically collecting and pub-
lishing measurements of the rain-fall at
points in all parts of the water-sheds of the
large rivers.
As Association of American Naturalists
was organized at Spiingfield, Massachusetts,
in April last, of which Professor A. Hyatt
was chosen president. Professors II. N.
Martin and A. S. Piu-kaid, Jr., vice-presi-
dents, and Professor S. F. Clarke, of Williams
College, secretary. Twenty-seven members
were enrolled. The Association adopted the
name of the "Society of Naturalists of the
Eastern United States."
A noteworthy feature of the recent
third annual meeting of the German Geo-
graphical Society, at Frankfort, was the
piesencf, as the hero of the occasion, of the
youthful African explorer. Lieutenant Wiss-
mann, and by his side Dr. Piippell, now
eighty-nine years old, who explored Eg}pt
and Nubia seventy years ago, and Abyssinia
and the other Red Sea countries twenty
years later.
