CHAXGES IX XEW EXGLAXD POPULATIOX. 435
erf 111 influence physical organization has upon the character of a peo-
ple. The permanent prosperity of any community depends far more
upon the laws of inheritance than is generally supposed.
Let the most enterprising and promising among the young people
emigrate from a place, and it must, in the course of time, have its
influence. "Whether the vital interests of New England have not suf-
fered in this respect, from so many persons emigrating in the prime
of life pi'esents a question worthy of careful consideratiou.
IxTERCHAXGE OF POPULATION. — There is another change going
on in these States quite different from the one described. This con-
sists in frequent removals from one State to another.
The census of 1880 shows that Massachusetts had at that time
68,226 residents born in Maine ; 54,088 born in Xew Hampshire ;
26,869 in Vermont ; 20,514 in Connecticut ; and 17,067 in Rhode
Island, making 186,764 persons who have removed there from other
States. At the same time these five other States had 85,478 persons
living in their bounds born in Massachusetts. Deduct these 85,478
from the 186,764, and Massachusetts gains over 100,000, mostly from
Maine, Xew Hampshire, and Vermont.
There is very little migration from the other New England States
to Connecticut or Rhode Island, and scarcely any from the latter to
the former. Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island, make very
nearly equal exchanges, neither gaining nor losing much. These re-
movals from one State to another are prompted from a great variety
of interests, personal and local. The States most benefited by them
are those employed largely in manufacturing business. These changes
are carried on chiefly between villages and cities, and seldom take
place in the rural or country districts. It may be said that the foreign
element is largely concerned in these removals.
CouxTEY Life exchanged for the City. — This change is not
governed at all by State lines. It commenced forty or fifty years ago,
from country districts to places M^here trade or business demanded
help. The introduction of manufactures and mechanical pursuits of
various kinds, as well as the opening of railroads, created a great de-
mand for laborers. By means of those changes and other agencies,
trade and commerce became very much enlarged, and furnished em-
ployment for increased numbers.
Here and there new centers of business were formed ; new vil-
lages sprang up, and large towns were converted into cities. In some
parts of New England these removals have taken place to such an
extent as to change the face of the country and the state of society.
It commenced first in the small farming towns, and has prevailed
most in places remote from markets and railroad accommodations.
The effect of such removals is especially marked in Massachusetts,
as she possesses a larger number of cities, more railroad facilities, and
a greater diversity of pursuits. The census shows the following facts :
