PHYSICS IN GENERAL EDUCATION. 27
ence of the class-room with the critical knowledge of the scholar.
We may import them from Europe, it is true, as we must also our
more advanced text-books, but, although in the main vastly superior
to our own, they are still not entirely suited to the wants of American
schools and American pupils. These books, in the hands of teachers
who know little or nothing outside of the books they use, and often
falling far short of that, serve to put the instruction in elementary
pliysics in this country in a condition over which no one can grow very
enthusiastic ; and this, in spite of the prominent place which has been
given it and the considerable attention it has received. Unsound doc-
trines and absurd theories are promulgated because of an inability to
distinguish the ring of genuine metal. These become so deeply rooted
that it is difficult and often impossible in after-years to clear them
away.
I believe it to be possible for this Association to exert a strong in-
fluence in favor of an improvement in the character of the instruction
in physics in both elementary and higher institutions of learning in
America. Much of it at present does us no credit, and must eventu-
ally do us much harm. At a meeting of this Association in Nashville,
five years ago, a committee was appointed to report upon science-teach-
ing in the public schools. At the Boston meeting, two yeai's ago, this
committee presented a report which embodied much thought upon the
subject, and was replete with just and keen criticisms of present sys-
tems. It is greatly to be regretted that this report can not have found
its way into the hands of those whom it would most benefit. A Avide
distribution ought to have been secured, and I am convinced that it is
not yet too late to remedy this error.*
The same gentlemen were continued as a committee to report upon
the "Best Method of Science-Teaching in Public Schools," and it is to
be hoped that a scheme may be presented at no distant day. I will
venture the opinion, however, that the best results will not be obtained
until this, or a similar, committee shall work in co-operation with
rej^resentatives of the public schools themselves, and I would suggest
the feasibility of securing such co-operation through the National
Educational Association.
No such difficulty is in the way of securing an improvement in
the teaching of physics in colleges and universities, for those most
interested are, in the main, a part of this Association and of this
section.
I will not venture to suggest in what manner the Association might
best make itself felt in this matter, although I think that would not
be difficult to ascertain. I have only endeavored to direct attention
to some of the salient features of the problem, and to ask its consid-
eration at the hands of many members of the section who come in
almost daily contact with it, and who will, I am convinced, sustain
* This report will appear in the next issue of " The Popular Science Monthly,"
