CHANGES IN NEW ENGLAND POPULATION. 441
The marriage-rate is much higher in this class than with the American.
It is possible that, in the process of time, changes in the style of living,
and by adopting modern fashions, the birth-rate of this class may be
somewhat reduced, but certainly not at present.
Religious influences have a powerful hold upon this class of people,
so that they will be restrained from violating the laws of the physical
system. In process of time, there may be such a change in the organ-
ization of this people as to reduce the birth-rate. The " Catholic
"World " stated six years ago that " nearly 70 per cent of the births in
New England were those in Catholic families." This estimate we
thought at the time was too large, but with the increase of births
since belonging to this class, and the addition of the births of large
numbers of the foreign-born and foreign descent who are not Catho-
lic, it will increase this percentage.
In most of the cities more than half of the births for years have
been connected with the foreign element, but it was not expected that
the same proportion could be found to exist in rural districts and
country towns.
It does not seem possible that three fourths of all the births in New
England at the present time can be classed under a foreign head, but
the indications are pretty certain that such will be the case before
many years, and then we shall be compelled to believe the fact. The
inquiry is frequently made if the two classes do not intermarry, and
what is the prospect in this direction ? There are occasional inter-
marriages between the American, the English, the Scotch, and the emi-
grants from the Provinces, but not often between the Americans and
the Irish. Still, cases of this kind do occur occasionally between the
laboring classes, and we think they are increasing. The registration
reports divide certain married parties into two classes — the foreign-
bom father and native mother, and vice versa.
The term native here might apply to the strictly American, but a
careful examination shows that each party called native was of foreign
element, so that there was no mixing of the two races. This class of
marriages has been constantly increasing. In Massachusetts, accord-
ing to the registration report of 1881, there were 7,386 births of this
class, nearly one eighth of the whole number.
Change in Physical Organization. — The most serious evil re-
sulting from the introduction of this foreign element is in causing a
change in the 'physical organization of Nexo-Englanders. In the case
of men — that part of farming requiring hard work — those kinds of
the mechanical pursuits demanding physical strength, and, in fact,
nearly all manual labor out-of-doors, have already passed mainly into
the hands of foreign help. This change, commencing thirty or forty
years ago, has everywhere been taking place, but more rapidly of late
years.
This exchange of regular physical exercise for lighter employment
