4+2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
aud in-door work is calculated to develop nerve-tissue rather than
the muscles, to impair the power of digestion, and reduce the vital
forces of the system. That a course of physical degeneracy to some
extent has thus been going on Avith New England men must now, upon
thorough examination, be generally admitted.
But a change more marked and serious in its character has been
taking place in female organization. Formerly all kinds of house-
work and domestic duties were performed by New England women.
Before foreign help could be obtained, our young women were gen-
erally employed as domestics in families. It was customary for the
more wealthy and many families of the middling class, where there
were no daughters, to employ one or more domestics.
In many families all the house-work was done by the daughters
and mother, without any imported help. It was considered becoming
and praiseworthy for all females, of whatever age or family connec-
tions, to engage on hire in domestic service.
All such employment was then considered respectable. Skill, fidel-
ity, and success in domestic duties, were the best recommendations
that any young woman could possess. Practice and public sentiment
in these respects have entirely changed. Very few Yankee girls can
now be persuaded at any price to engage in domestic labor. Such
service is generally considered by them menial, and every kind of em-
ployment or business away from the kitchen and domestic hearth is
preferred. In families where there are daughters, the hardest portion
of the house-work is now performed by the mother or hired help.
"What are some of the effects of this change in domestic life ? No
kind of exercise in the world is so well calculated to develop all parts
of the body in the female, and promote good health, as house-work.
No study or employment whatever can fit the young girl so well for
housekeeping as practical training in such duties.
In this way home and the family are pretty sure to secure a strong
attachment. By these means all parts of the body are harmoniously
developed ; a sound constitution, good health, and long life, are se-
cured. Instead of educating the girl in accordance wuth the laws of
her physical system, and training her for the great practical duties of
the family, from the age of ten to eighteen she is kept at school
nearly all the time, so that the brain and nerves are developed at the
expense of other organs. This partial and one-sided development of
the body is increased and intensified in the female, by being thrown
out of her natural sphere in domestic labor and family relation.
Hence great multitudes of young women from fifteen to twenty-five
have nothing to do, are everywhere seeking employment, and are con-
stantly exposed to an excited or morbid state of feeling.
The ill-health of New England women is proverbial. It is less
than half a century since it attracted public attention. A careful ex-
amination will show that its history and extent run almost parallel
