446 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tempt to browbeat tlie Commonwealth of Massachusetts into a more
pious observance of the day than that eminent official thought would
be likely to be made in the absence of such pressure. The eflforts of
those who wish to inoculate the constitution with a particularly pure
theological virus tend in the same direction, and would make the
father of Positivism smile were he alive.
The revolutionary doctrine, according to Comte's nomenclature,
is that which proclaims liberty in its widest sense — an unlimited
right of free inquiry, and an unlimited freedom for the people of po-
litical action. As Comte well points out, this school offers to society
no definite guidance whatever — simply proclaims that all principles
are to be examined and all experiments tried. That, after a certain
amount of examination and experimentation, some set of principles
might emerge, which society could accept as final, the revolutionary
leaders are careful not to hint, lest they should be suspected of hav-
ing some such set of principles in their mind, and so being at heart
doctrinaires and perhaps even partisans of order. No, the revolu-
tionary ideal is the negation of all trammels, change for the sake of
change, a constant bubbling of the social caldron, so that no unit
may remain long at the top, or long at the bottom, or long anywhere.
But society can not live on change ; and, in the absence of any definite
doctrines of their own, the revolutionary school, when they are at the
head of affairs, are compelled to make use of the principles and habi-
tudes they find established, and even to fall back on rags and tatters
belonging by right to their reactionary opponents. Thus the free-
thinkers who now control the government in France are dogmatically
teaching theism in the public schools. They want to give some kind
of support to ideas of duty ; and, having no coherent views of their
own on the subject, they adopt, as a temporary make-shift, a theory
and a synthesis which some of them would individually reject, and
which none of them probably would care to be called on to expound.
The "stationary" school is that which erects into a doctrine a per-
manent principle of political action — the necessity of balancing reac-
tion against revolution ; holding out to society no prospect beyond
that of an eternal seesaw of opposite tendencies. Disdaining all Uto-
pias, it yet proposes to itself, as Comte observes, the very wildest of
Utopias — that, namely, of securing social well-being by playing off the
instinct of order against the instinct of progress. Having no princi-
ples of its own, it subsists wholly upon contradictory borrowings from
the two antagonist doctrines. While it acknowledges that neither the
one nor the other is fit to preside over social and political action, it
thinks that, if both can be applied at once, all will go well. What has
chiefly given vitality to this school, according to Comte, has been the
example of England — which, however, has been, he asserts, an emi-
nently misleading one ; the stability of the English polity having been
due to altogether exceptional circumstances, which are not and can
