28 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
me in the belief that it is not unworthy to be brought before this
body.
In preparing this discussion of the subject, I have not had access
to such information as would have been desirable concerning the work
which is being done in many institutions, nor have I been able to con-
sult with others who are especially engaged in its management. In-
deed, it was this very lack of accessible information, this very impos-
sibility of personal consultation, with which I met in the outset, that
convinced me of the importance of directing the attention of the sec-
tion to the subject.
What the section could do in the direction indicated seems to be
tolerably clear and certain. Whether it is wise or desirable that it
should undertake to do anything is a matter which I willingly leave
for it to determine.
MICROSCOPIC LIFE IK THE AIE.
By LOUIS OLIVIER.
AKCIEXT Pantheism animated all nature. Gnomes in caverns,
naiads in springs, sylphs in the air, represented life, pervading
everything. Twenty centuries having passed, science has resuscitated
these elementary genii under the form of organic germs ; and we are
forced to-day to recognize that the reality surpasses all the bold con-
ceptions of the fable. From pole to pole the atmosphere transports
myriads of microscopic animals and plants. They are counted by
hundreds in each cubic metre of air that we breathe in Paris. Devel-
oping themselves in the organic infusions into which they fall, they
soon determine their complete decomposition ; and they play their
parts in virulent diseases and in fermentations. No doubt is permis-
sible on this point after the admirable labors of M. Pasteur ; and every
day a new workman brings his stone as a contribution to the grand
edifice of which this illustrious physiologist has drafted the plan and
himself laid the impregnable foundations.
A considerable work has just appeared on this subject. For sev-
eral years, M. Miquel has pursued interesting researches upon the
microbes of the air ; and, in addition to the regular publication of his
investigations in the " Annuaire " of the Observatory at Montsouris,
he has just completed an important memoir, which includes valuable
facts respecting these organisms. We propose to show here how this
department of science has been developed, and what means of carry-
ing out its objects it possesses, F. A, Pouchet devised the aeroscope
that bears his name, for collecting dust from the air. It consists of
a small cylinder connected with an aspirator ; a disk of glass coated
