THE ANARCHY OF MODERN POLITICS. 451
multiplication of public offices, by making access to these as easy as
possible, and by changing the incumbents as often as possible. Yield-
ing in the lirst place to an evil necessity, they have afterward con-
verted that necessity into a general resource of government, by trust-
ing, as a regular thing, to the interested support of energetic and
ambitious men with whom they divide the protits arising from the
management of the public business. How dangerous such an expe-
dient is from the point of view of the governments themselves, it is
almost needless to point out ; since it must necessarily call forth far
more claims than it can satisfy, and consequently excite against the
established regime passions far stronger than any it can evoke for its
support.* If we just look at the selections for a generation or two past
for the most eminent political functions, is there any reason why the
great majority of our aspiring men should not conceive the hope of
climbing in their turn to similar positions ? Another marked feature
of the times is the disposition to trust to material agencies or mere
acts of legislation for the removal of evils that have their root in men's
ideas and in social customs. An amendment to a constitution or a
charter is proffered as a plan of political salvation ; or, worse still, we
are asked to rest our hopes on the substitution of this man for that in
a cabinet. Meanwhile, the absence of any clear or comprehensive con-
ception of the social future affords a career only to the most vulgar
kind of ambition. At no former epoch, probably, were such chances
ever offered to a presuming and adventurous mediocrity. The quality
chiefly required in public life is fluency of speech ; above all, a fluency
which suffers no abatement if it is suddenly called on to change sides
on a question. In a time of weak and wavering convictions there has
naturally been a demand for I'cpresentatives characterized by the
vagueness of their intellectual habits and an habitual lack of fixed
opinions. Unless we could hope that such a condition of things would
be but transitory, it would really constitute the most shameful social
degradation. That hope we may, however, entertain. If there are
forces of decomposition at work, there are also — though their action
may not be so conspicuous — forces of regeneration ; and what is needed
to give these a decisive victory is the formulation and application of a
true political philosophy.
Such was the view taken by Comte, over forty years ago, of the
then political situation in France and other countries enjoying consti-
tutional 7't'f/imes. Matters have not mended since his day : principles
are more than ever discredited in political affairs ; parties no longer
even profess them ; and government and legislation are carried on at
mere hap-hazard. The great object with party managers is to get
all important questions taken " out of politics," so that there may be
* How exactly this applies to the existing situation in Franco, and how nearly it de-
scribes the situation here, no reader will fail to remark.
