4,-2 THE rOPVLAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nothiiiij to cni1>arrass the scramble for offices. The Now York "Sun"
lately reminded the Democrats that their business was "to elect a
President," not to reform the tariff. Seek first, it says, to " elect a
President," and all good things will be added unto you ; but grapple
with a great question like the tariff, and your opi)oneuts will surely
get the better of you. Another leading organ observes that, now that
the offices are no longer generally available, owing to the passage of the
Pendleton civil-service bill, for the reward of political sei'vices, there
remains nothing for a victorious party but "a damned barren ideality."
The strength of the language, which m'C reproduce with absolute faith-
fulness, may be taken as a gauge of the disgust which the average
politician feels when he sees nothing before him but a chance of doing
his duty, without any special reward therefor. The novel, " Democ-
racy," about which so much has been said, does not overstate the case
in the least. When Mrs. Lee, in that lively story, tells the senator,
who pays her the compliment of consulting as to the best course to
take in a certain complication, to do " what is most for the public
good," her counsel falls utterly pointless and abortive, simply because
" the public good " had nothing whatever to do with the matter in
hand. The senator himself could not pretend to tell her at what point
the two things came into any kind of relation with each other. The
questions involved were questions purely of self-interest, and, what-
ever course was taken, the country had nothing to gain.
If we turn to England, signs are not wanting that there too the ab-
sence of political principles is leading up to a crisis. "The notion,"
said the London " Times " recently, " that any particular set of men
are in possession of principles especially calculated to promote the na-
tional well-being, or that any particular trick of government could add
appreciably to the sum of happiness, is one which nowadays finds re-
markably few advocates. Moreover, there is a pretty general feeling
that it is very little use to rely upon principles of any kind. ... At
the present time we are not proceeding upon any principle known to
either political party ; and it is that fact which explains the hollowness
of all political discussion, and the marked incredulity of the intelli-
gent public toward all political professions. The fact is, that our
political principles are worn out, and that the conflict which raged
around them while they were vital is being mechanically carried on by
men whose business it is to fight about something." When remarks
like these can be made by the "leading journal," it would certainly
seem as if Comte was not far wrong in his prediction that the English
system would before long reveal its essential weakness. The question
then arises, Can government be permanently carried on under these
conditions ? As Comte has remarked, the absence of principle in public
life reacts upon private life ; and certainly, in the latter sphere, the dis-
order we now witness is not what might have been expected in an age
of such general enlightenment. It would seem as if, before long, those
