4 56 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
any jKirticipant in the excellent work of that organization, he can not,
in good English, be less than an assistant, and yet only ofticers of the
highest attainable grade are entitled to the latter distinction. Still
below the assistants and sub-assistants come the aids, young officers
Avhose inferiority of position is mollified by the possession of a title
synonymous in meaning with that of their superiors, and therefore
equally respectable in the popular comprehension. Such is the pov-
erty of this nomenclature that it carries witk it only the general idea
of subordination. Surely it would not be impossible to devise some
system of titles which would at the same time convey some hint of
the duties and the relative rank of the scientists of that body.
ON EADIATION.*
Bv JOHN TYNDALL, F.R.S.
SCIENTIFIC discoveries are not distributed uniformly in time.
They appear rather in periodic groups. Thus, in the first two
years of this century, among other gifts presented by men of science
to the world, we have the voltaic pile ; the principle of Interference,
which is the basis of the undulatory theory of light ; and the discov-
ery by William Herschel of the dark rays of the sun.
Directly or indirectly, this latter discovery heralded a period of
active research on the subject of radiation. Leslie's celebrated work,
*' On the Nature of Heat," was published in 1804, but he informs us,
in the preface, that the leading facts which gave rise to the publica-
tion presented themselves in the spring of 1801. An interesting but
not uncommon psychological experience is glanced at in this preface.
The inconvenience of what we call ecstasy, or exaltation, is that it is
usually attended by undesirable compensations. Its action resembles
that of a tidal river, sometimes advancing and filling the shores of
life, but afterward retreating and leaving unlovely banks behind.
Leslie, when he began his work, describes himself as " transported at
the prospect of a new world emerging to view." But further on the
note changes, and before the preface ends he warns the reader that he
may expect variety of tone, and perhaps defect of unity, in his disqui-
sition. The execution of the work, he says, proceeded Avith extreme
tardiness ; and, as the charm of novelty wore off, he began to look
upon his production with a coolness not usual in authors.
The ebb of the tide, however, was but transient ; and to Leslie's
ardor, industry, and experimental skill, we are indebted for a large
body of knowledge in regard to the phenomena of radiation. In the
prosecution of his researches he had to rely upon himself. He devised
* A " Friday EveniDg Discourse," recently delivered in the Royal Institution.
