Oy RADIATION. 457
bis own apparatus, and applied it in his own way. To produce radiat-
ing surfaces, he employed metallic cubes, which to the present hour
are known as Leslie's cubes. The different faces of these cubes he
coated with different substances, and, filling the cubes with boiling
water, he determined the emissive powers of the substances thus
heated. These he found to differ greatly from each other. Thus, the
radiation from a coating of lamp-black being called 100, that from the
uncoated metallic surface of his cube was only 12. He pointed out
the reciprocity existing between radiation and absorption, proving
that those substances which emit heat copiously absorb it greedily.
His thcrmoscopic instrument was the well-known differential-thermom-
eter invented by himself. In experiment Leslie was very strong, but
in theory he was not so strong. His notions as to the nature of the
agent whose phenomena he investigated with so much ability are con-
fused and incorrect. Indeed, he could hardly have formed any clear
notion of the physical meaning of radiation before the undulatory
theory of light, which was then on its trial, had been established.
A figure still more remarkable than Leslie occupied the scientific
stage at the same time — namely, the vigorous, penetrating, and prac-
tical Benjamin Thompson, better known as Count Rumford, the origi-
nator of the Royal Institution. Ruraford traversed a great portion of
the ground occupied by Leslie, and obtained many of his results. As
regards priority of publication, he was obviously discontented with
the course which things had taken, and he endeavored to place both
himself and Leslie in what he supposed to be their right relation to
the subject of radiant heat. The two investigators were unknown to
each other personally, and their differences hardly rose to scientific
strife. There can hardly, I think, be a doubt that each of them
worked independently of the other, and that, where their labors over-
lap, the honor of discovery belongs equally to both.
The results of Leslie and Rumford were obtained in the labora-
tory ; but the walls of a laboratory do not constitute the boundary of
its results. Nature's hand specimens are always fair samples, and, if
the experiments of the laboratory be only true, they will be ratified
throughout the universe. The results of Leslie and Rumford were in
due time carried from the cabinet of the experimenter to the open
sky, by Dr. Wells, a practicing London physician. And here let it be
gratefully acknowledged that vast services to physics have been ren-
dered by physicians. The penetration of "Wells is signalized among
other things by the fact recorded by the late Mr. Darwin, that, forty-
five years before the publication of the " Origin of Species," the Lon-
don doctor had distinctly recognized the principle of Natural Selection,
and that he was the first who recognized it. But Wells is principally
known to us through his "Theory of Dew," Avhich, promjited by the
experiments of Leslie and Rumford, and worked out by the most re-
fined and conclusive observations on the jiart of Wells himself, first
