458 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
revealed the cause of this beautiful phenomenon. AVells knew that
through the body of our atmosphere invisible aqueous vapor is every-
where diffused. lie proved that grasses and other bodies on which
dew was deposited were powerful emitters of radiant heat ; that, when
nothing existed in the air to stop their radiation, they became self-
cliille<l ; and that while thus chilled they condensed into dew the
acpieous vapor of the air around them. I do not 6uj)pose that any
theory of importance ever escaped the ordeal of assault on its first
enunciation. The theory of Wells was thus assailed ; but it has
proved immovable, and will doubtless continue so to the end of time.
The interaction of scientific workers causes the growth of science
to resemble that of an organism. From Faraday's tiny magneto-
electric spark, shown in this theatre half a century ago, has sprung
the enormous practical development of electricity at the present time.
Thomas Secbeck in 18:22 discovered thermo-electricity, and eight years
subsequently bars of bismuth and antimony were first soldered together
by Nohili so as to form a thermo-electric pile. In the self-same year
Melloni perfected the instrument and proved its applicability to the
investigation of radiant heat. The instrumental appliances of science
have been well described as extensions of the senses of man. Thus
the invention of the thermopile vastly augmented our powers over the
phenomena of radiation. Melloni added immensely to our knowledge
of the transmission of radiant heat through liquids and solids. His
results appeared at first so novel and unexpected that they excited
skepticism. He waited long in vain for a favorable report from the
Academicians of Paris ; and finally, in despair of obtaining it, he pub-
lished his results in the " Annales de Chimie." Here they came to the
knowledge of Faraday, who, struck by their originality, brought them
under the notice of the Royal Society, and obtained for Melloni the
Rumford medal. The medal was accompanied by a sum of money
from the Rumford fund ; and this, at the time, was of the utmost im-
portance to the young political exile, reduced as be was to penury in
Paris. From that time until his death, Melloni was ranked as the
foremost investigator in the domain of radiant heat.
As regards the philosophy of the thermopile, and its relation to
the great doctrine of the conservation of energy, now everywhere
accepted, a step of singular significance was taken by Peltier in 1834.
Up to that time it had been taken for granted that the action of an
electric current upon a conductor through which it passed was always
to generate heat. Peltier, however, proved that, under certain circum-
stances, the electric current generated cold. He soldered together a
bar of antimony and a bar of bismuth, end to end, thus forming of
the two metals one continuous bar. Sending a current through this
bar, he found that when it passed from antimony to bismuth across
the junction, heat was always there developed, whereas, when the
direction of the current was from bismuth to antimony, there was a
