ox RADIATION. 461
out with dominant brilliancy. To my surprise, at the very point where
I expected this brilliant band to appear, a band of darkness took its
place. By humoring the voltaic arc a little, the darkness vanished,
and the bright band which I had sought at the beginning was ob-
tained. On reflection the cause was manifest. The first ignition of
the sodium was accompanied by the development of a large amount of
sodium-vapor, which spread outward and surrounded, as a cool envel-
ope, the core of intensely heated vapor inside. By the cool vapor the
rays from the hot were intercepted, but on lengthening the arc the
outer vapor in great part was dispersed, and the rays passed to the
screen. This relation as to temperature was necessary to the produc-
tion of the black band, for, were the outside vapor as hot as the inside,
it would, by its own radiation, make good the light absorbed.
An extremely beautiful experiment of this kind was lately made
here by Professor Liveing, with rays which, under ordinary circum-
stances, are entirely invisible. Professor Dewar and Professor Liveing
have been long working with conspicuous success at the ultra-violet
spectrum. Using prisms and lenses of a certain kind, and a powerful
dynamo-machine to volatilize our metals, like Professor Liveing, I cast
a spectrum upon the screen. Far beyond this terminal violet, waves
impinge upon the screen which have no sensible effect upon the organ
of vision ; they constitute what we call the ultra-violet spectrum.
Professor Stokes has taught us how to render this invisible spectrum
visible, and it is by a skillful application of Stokes's discovery that
Liveing and Dewar bring the hidden spectrum out with wondrous
strength and beauty.
A small second screen is at hand, which can be moved into the
ultra-violet region. Felt by the fingers, the surface of this screen re-
sembles sand-paper, being covered with powdered uranium glass, a
highly fluorescent body. Pushing the movable screen toward the
visible spectrum, at a distance of three or four feet beyond the violet,
where only darkness existed before, light begins to appear. On push-
ing in the screen, the whole ultra-violet spectrum falls upon it, and is
rendered visible from beginning to end. The spectrum is not con-
tinuous, but composed for the most part of luminous bands derived
from the white-hot crucible in which the metals are to be converted
into vapor. I beg of you to direct your attention to one of these
bands in particular. Here it is, of fair luminous intensity. IMy object
now is to show you, with Professor Dewar's aid, the reversal, as it is
called, of that band, which belongs to the vapor of magnesium, exactly
as a moment ago you were shown the reversal of the sodium band.
An assistant will throw a bit of magnesium into the crucible, and you
are to observe what first takes place. The action is rapid, so that you
will have to fix your eyes upon this particular strip of light. On
throwing in the magnesium, the luminous band belonging to its vapor
is cut away, and you have, for a second or so, a dark band in its place.
