462 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
I repeat the experiment three or four times in succession, with the
same unfailing result. Here, as in the case of the sodium, the mag-
nesium surrouuileil itself for a moment by a cool envelope of its own
vapor, which cut off the radiation from within, and thus jjroduced the
darkness.
And now let us pass on to an apparently different, but to a really
similar result. Here is a feebly luminous flame, which you know to be
t-hat of hydrogen, the ]iroduct of combustion being water-vapor. Here
is another flame of a rich blue color, which the chemists present know
to be the flame of carbonic oxide, the product of combustion being
carbonic acid. Let the hydrogen-flame radiate through a column of
ordinary carbonic acid — the gas proves highly transparent to the radi-
ation. Send the rays from the carbonic-oxide flame through the same
column of carbonic acid — the gas proves powerfully opaque. Why is
this? Simply because the radiant, in the case of the carbonic-oxide
flame, is hot carbonic acid, the rays from which are quenched by the
cold carbonic-acid gas, exactly as the rays from the intensely heated
sodium-vapor were quenched a moment ago by the cooler envelope
which surrounded it. Bear in mind the case is always one of syn-
chronism. It is because the atoms of the cold acid vibrate with the
same frequency as the atoms of the hot that the pulses sent forth from
the latter are absorbed.
Newton, though probably not with our present precision, had formed
a conception similar to that of molecules and their constituent atoms.
The former he called corpuscles, which, as Sir John Herschel says, he
regarded " as divisible groups of atoms of yet more delicate kind."
The molecules he thought might be seen if microscopes could be
caused to magnify three or four thousand times. But, with regard to
the atoms, he made the remark already alluded to : "It seems impos-
sible to see the more secret and nobler works of Nature within the cor-
puscles, by reason of their transparency."
I have now to ask your attention to an illustration intended to
show how radiant heat may be made to play to the mind's eye the
part of the microscope, in revealing to us something of the more
secret and noble works of atomic Nature. Chemists are ever on the
alert to notice analogies and resemblances in the atomic structures of
different bodies. They long ago pointed out that a resemblance exists
between that evil-smelling liquid, bisulphide of carbon, and carbonic
acid. In the latter substance we have one atom of carbon united to
two of oxygen, while in the former we have one atom of carbon united
to two of sulphur. Attempts have been made to push the analogy
still further by the discovery of a compound of carbon and sulphur
which should be analogous to carbonic oxide, where the proportions,
instead of one to two, are one to one, but hitherto, I believe, without
success. Let us now see whether a little physical light can not reveal
an analogy between carbonic acid and bisulphide of carbon more occult
