THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 489
enterprise ; but, iipon his return to Lis palatial residence at Bencoolen,
he and all his household were prostrated by the jungle-fever, and, at
the end of a life perhaps unequaled for successful activity, he found
himself bankrupt, childless, and hopeless. At a time when beef or
pork steaks and a bottle of porter were the essentials of a Chris-
tian breakfast, a vegetarian official of the East India Company might
have defied ill-luck to outweigh the advantage of permanent good
health where good health obtained the highest premium. Even now,
by their obstinate adherence to their native diet, the British residents
of the East Indies are almost decimated every year, especially where
the zymotic tendency of that diet is aggravated by the effect of foul
air.*
For on the other hand it is equally sure that strict attention to
ventilation and a liberal use of cold air and sponge-baths will palliate
the effects of many dietetic sins. The patient has either to adapt his
diet to the temperature of the South, or adapt his temperature to the
diet of the North. Experience has taught the Creoles to take things
coolly. "With all their excitable tem23erament, they avoid violent out-
bursts of passion ; they do not overwork themselves ; they preserve
the even tenor of their way, even if they are behind time and know
that their dinner is getting cold. And, above all, they indulge in
liberal siestas. Hard work in the hot sun, with a stomach full of greasy
viands, obliges the vital force to resist the triple fire of a furnace
heated by the sun-rays, by exercise, and by calorific food. Brain- work,
too, is apt, in hot weather, to exert an undue strain on the vital ener-
gies, and to complicate the difficulties of the digestive apparatus.
Cold air is a peptic stimulant, but even in the North a man can not
labor with his brain without impeding the labors of his stomach ; but,
in the languid atmosphere of a southern marsh-land, that impediment
becomes an absolute prevention, and the brain-worker who eats for the
purpose of nourishing his organism had better save his food for sup-
per than oblige his stomach to carry it for half a day in an undi-
gested condition. For during that half day putrescent decomposition
anticipates the work of gastric disintegration ; the ingesta ferment,
catalytic humors pass into the circulation and prepare the way for
the reception and development of zymotic germs from without. The
hygienic alternative is, therefore, a long siesta, or a considerable post-
ponement of the dinner-hour. South of Cape Hatteras, Nature exacts
an account for every superfluous act that tends to raise the tempera-
ture of the system by a single degree. Keej) cool becomes the first
commandment of her sanitary code. He who scrupulously avoids
anger, enthusiasm, and other calorific passions, who performs the prin-
* " In the [East Indian] jails under British control there are usually confined no fewer
than 40,000 prisoners, and the average annual mortality of the whole was recently ten
per cent, rising in some cases to twenty-six per cent, or more than one in four " (Dr.
MacKinnon's " Treatise on the Public Health of Bengal," Ca\vnpore, 1848, chap. i).
