THE FORMATION OF SEA-WAVES. 493
in fact, if we carefully examine a "wave, we shall find that it is covered
with very fine ripples, that correspond to the atmospheric vibrations.
The ripples give rise to wavelets, which correspond to the undulations
of the air, and are seen on the upper part of the waves. The wave
proper appears to consist of a series of wavelets. A number of waves
constitute a billow ; a series of billows gives rise to a heavy sea {pa-
quet de mer) ; a series of heavy seas produces the great swell or tidal
wave of the storm.
From the nautical point of view, the ripples are of no importance,
for they are seldom more than a few millimetres in diameter ; but
from the scientific point of view they may be considered as the origin
of the swing of the liquid element, for they engender the wavelets.
The last are still of no interest to the sailor, but are important in their
relation to works of art, which are disintegrated by their blows, ap-
parently insignificant, but infinitely multiplied. The wavelets are
from ten to thirty centimetres in diameter and not very long. A very
heavy wind breaks them up and contributes to the formation of a fine
dust of salt water or salt spray, which is destructive to vegetation on
exposed coasts. The wave proper may, in the English Channel, be
about ten feet high, thirty feet or more broad, and eighty feet long ;
its proportions do not disturb large ships, but it is destructive, in
the long run, to port works, and is dangerous to small craft when it
breaks. We may estimate that ten waves make a billow. The first
of the ten may be relatively small, but the others go on increasing to
the last.
The heavy seas are the terror of sailors. They represent an enor-
mous volume of water in motion. A gust of wind can not possibly
raise up such a mass, and it can only be the result of the combined
efforts of the tempest. A heavy sea may reach a height equal to
twenty-five or thu-ty or more feet. It is massive, and strikes like
a battering-ram. On the land it causes great damage, and makes
breaches in works of earth and stone ; at sea, it can send a trans-
atlantic packet to the bottom with a single blow.
The great tidal wave is produced by two causes. On one side, it
is the general resultant of the billows and the great seas; and, on the
other hand, it is produced by barometrical depressions causing the
waters of the ocean to rise. In cyclones, the rise of the water in the
center would be neutralized by the centrifugal force, and it is there-
fore probable that the former cause acts alone. The tidal wave has
but small amplitude, but, when inclosed by parallel coasts, it may
rise to a height of several metres. It then causes inundations of low
shores.
The singular fact has been remarked at Ha^Te that in a storm the
swell almost always comes after the tide. The sea rises to its normal
high-water mark at the prescribed hour, and then begins to retire as
usual ; all at once it rises again, to a height generally much greater
