494 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
than before. This high sea continues for a considerable time, some-
times for several hours ; and it has been known to last twenty-four
hours.
The billows, heavy seas, and tidal waves possess a considerable in-
ertia, and keep up the swell after the tempest has subsided. The real
waves fall, while the billows still subsist, but flattened. It is then
easy to estimate the distance between them. On the 26th of March,
1882, I counted eight in a space of four thousand metres.
The most serious event that can take place at sea is a change of
wind, such as nearly always occiirs in cyclones. The phenomena we
have described being well established and sure to continue for a con-
siderable time by virtue of their inertia, when the wind veers around
so as to reproduce them in another direction, the new waves cross the
old ones, and a chopped sea, dangerous to navigation, is the result.
If any one interested in scientific matters comes to the shore to
study the formation of waves, he will experience some disappoint-
ment, for the configuration of the coasts, the eddies, and the currents,
modify the phenomena in a thousand ways. They are, however, al-
ways apparent, even in the calmest weather, and vary only in their
amplitude. To observe them it is enough to take notice of the level
of the water against a post, a jetty, or other structure. Changes of
level are produced there quite similar to the pulsations of the sea ; and
the extent of these pulsations gives quite exact data respecting every-
thing that we have mentioned.
Waves may be classified as direct waves and waves of transmission.
The former, with which the surface of the sea is frequently agitated,
are those which the wind raises directly. Waves of the second class
may be produced in the calmest weather ; their origin is frequently
quite distant from the places where they are observed ; and they reach
those places by transmission. A well-known physical experiment will
suggest an explanation of the phenomenon of an agitated and raging
sea when there is no wind. If we have a long line of billiard-balls
arranged in contact one with another, and give a quick blow to the
first one, the last one will roll away. The shock is transmitted from
the first ball to the last one, without the intermediate ones suffering
any appreciable motion. Marine disturbances caused by direct waves,
tides, earthquakes, etc, may in the same way be transmitted through
molecules of still water without agitating them. If the liquid space is
free, the vibrations are gradually extinguished ; if they meet an obsta-
cle, there is a shock. If the obstacle is a shore, they form a tidal-wave
and raise large billows, while a few miles away from the shore the sea
is quiet. When the obstacle is a shoal or a contrary vibration, heavy
waves are raised on the surface of the sea ; they seem to start from
the bottom, and put ships in great danger. The waves produced in
both cases are waves of transmission, as also are those which beat
on reefs in pleasant weather, and those which prolong the swell after
