498 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
ing series according to the degree of intelligence manifested by their
most gifted members :
1. Bimana, higher man only, however,
2. Quadrwnana, especially the larger anthropoid apes.
3. Carnivora, including especially the dog and cat.
4. Proboscidla, the elephant.
5. Ungulata, especially the horse, mule, and ass.
6. Moclentia, especially the beaver and rat.
Apparently the elephant has always been regarded as an animal of
third or fourth rate intelligence, as compared with common domestic
animals and the great apes. Cuvier, in his " Regne Animal," i-ecords
his conviction that in sagacity the elephant in no way excels the dog,
and some other species of carnivora. Sir Emerson Tennent, even after
a careful study of the elephant, is disposed to award the palm for men-
tal superiority to the dog, but he hastens to add, "not from any ex-
cess of natural capacity, but from the higher degree of development
consequent on his more intimate domestication and association with
man."
Surprising as these opinions may seem in the light of certain facts
to be presently adduced, much more surprising is the opinion of Mr.
G. P. Sanderson, who has been more intimately associated with ele-
phants than any man living. After several years' continuous service,
entirely devoted to the capture of wild herds and their management
while under training in captivity, he writes as follows of the Indian
elephant :
" Its reasoning faculties are undoubtedly far below those of the
dog, and possibly of other animals ; and in matters beyond the range of
its daily experience it evinces no special discernment. While quick
at comprehending anything sought to be taught to it, the elephant is
decidedly wanting in originality."
An opinion from such an authority is entitled to great weight in a
consideration of the entire subject, and it is possible that Sanderson's
estimate of the elephant's powers of original reasoning is correct ; but
in the mind of the writer there is no question of the elephant's general
intellectual superiority over all other animals, except higher man.
More than this, I believe that the hitherto universal failure to recog-
nize this fact has been a real loss to the student of psychology.
While the subject-matter of this article has been drawn almost
wholly from observations of the Indian, or Asiatic, elephant both in a
wild state and under various conditions of captivity, there is no evidence
whatever to prove that, according to an idea which has quite generally
prevailed, the African elej)hant is less intelligent and tractable than
his East Indian congener. While many intelligent people have been
led to believe that Africanus can not be trained to service at all,
actual proof of his intellectual inferiority is wholly wanting, and there
is no good reason for believing that any can be found. Whenever it
