MENTAL CAPACITY OF THE ELEPHANT. 499
becomes necessary to accumulate evidence in his favor, the task will be
a simple and easy one.
^lian and Pliny describe the performances of African elephants
in the amphitheatre at Rome, the former with considerable detail.
African elephants were used by the Carthaginians in their wars with
the Romans, but it is stated by the historian Armandi that, from in-
experienced and deficient training, they proved less effective than the
elephants of India.
A gentleman who lately arrived in this city from the west coast of
Africa informed the writer that he had just seen at St. Paul de Loanda
an African elephant, considerably larger and older than Jumbo, at work
loading timbers into a ship, and that the animal performed his tasks
with surprising intelligence and precision.
The Indian elephant's reputation for mental superiority over the
African is apparently due to accidental circumstances. It is true that
trained elephants of the former species outnumber the African by per-
haps more than sixty to one, but it is also true that in Africa the in-
habitants are mostly negro savages who have neither the resources,
intelligence, nor inclination necessary to the wholesale capture and
domestication of elephants. Unlike the inhabitants of Hindostan,
Ceylon, Burmah, and Siam, who from time immemorial have made a
business of the capture and training of wild elephants, the negroes of
Africa look upon the elephant only as an ivory-producer. The splendid
tusks of Africanus make his total extermination only a question of
time. Long before the world will have reached the necessity of util-
izing this animal as a beast of burden, the ivory hunters will have
finished their war of extermination, now being waged with such alarm-
ing success, and the chances are that the zoologist of the future will
describe this animal as so entirely inferior to the Indian species, both
in intelligence and temper, that only a few individuals were ever suc-
cessfully trained. It is the misfortune of Africanus that he belongs
to the undeveloped continent. Two centuries hence, when the last of
his race goes to join the mammoth and the mastodon, his captive con-
gener in India will still be devouring his four hundred pounds of green
fodder per day, in peaceful domestication, while in the jungles, the
progeny of the wild herds which now roam the forests, secure from
destruction under the stringent English laws, will still be protected
for the perpetuation of the species.
The intelligence of an animal may be measured by taking into
account, separately, its intellectual qualities^ as follows :
1. Powers of independent reasoning or observation.
2. Memory.
3. Comprehension under tuition.
4. Accuracy in the execution of man's orders.
Closely allied to these are the moral qualities which go to make up
an animal's temperament and disposition, about as follows :
