MENTAL CAPACITY OF THE ELEPHANT. 507
usually obeyed with tardiness and hesitation, and very often mani-
fested nervousness and uncertainty.
In the mind of the elephant, e. g., each elephant, there was no
confusion of ideas, but, on the contrary, a mental grasp on the whole
subject, so secure and comprehensive that the animal felt himself mas-
ter of the situation.
I have never yet seen a performance of trained dogs which could
be considered worthy of serious comparison with the accomplishments
of either performing or working elei:)hants. In the matter of educa-
tional capacity the dog can not on any grounds be considered the rival
of the elephant. The alleged mental superiority of the dog is based
almost wholly upon his powers of independent reasoning and observa-
tion as exhibited in a state of almost perfect freedom. Until the edu-
cated elephant, who has grown to maturity under man's influence, is
allowed the dog's freedom to plan and execute, no comparison can be
made between them in this respect.
Finally, we come to a consideration of the elephant's moral quali-
ties, but it is not pertinent to this inquiry to discuss more than those
having a direct bearing upon the subject. In India the elephant bears
a spotless reputation for patience, amiability, and obedience, except in
the case of such individuals as have been afilicted with insanity, either
temporary or permanent. I know of no instances on record wherein
an elephant has been guilty of culpable homicide, or even of attempting
it. I have never heard of an elephant in India so much as kicking,
striking, or otherwise injuring either human beings or other domestic
animals. There have been several instances, however, of persons
killed by elephants which were temporarily insane, or " must,^^ and also
by others permanently insane. It is the misfortune but not the fault
of the elephant that in advanced age and by want of necessary exer-
cise he is liable to be attacked by a fit of must, during which period
he is clearly irresponsible for his acts.
So many men have been killed by^elephants in this country that the
idea has of late years been steadily gaining ground that they are nat-
urally ill-tempered and vicious to a very dangerous extent. Nothing
could be further from the truth. We have seen that in the hands of
the " gentle Hindoo " the elephant is gentle and reliable, and never
attacks man except under the circumstances already stated. In this
country, however, where he is at the mercy of quick-tempered and
sometimes brutal showmen, who very often do not understand the tem-
perament of the animals under their control, and who during the trav-
eling season are rendered perpetually ill-tempered and vindictive by
reason of overwork and insufficient sleep — with such masters as these
to mete out punishment, without judgment or reason, it is no wonder
that the animal occasionally rebels, and executes vengeance. I am con-
vinced that an elephant could by ill-treatment be driven to insanity,
and I have no doubt this has been done more than once in this country.
