THE CHEMISTRY OF COOKERY. 515
succulent joints of larger households. A little reflection on the prin-
ciples applied in my last to the grilling of steaks and chops will ex-
plain the source of this little difficulty, and I think show how it may
be overcome.
I will here venture upon a little of the mathematics of cookery, as
well as its chemistry. While the weight or quantity of material in a
joint increases with the cube of its through-measured dimensions, its
surface only increases with their square — or, otherwise stated, we do
not nearly double or treble the surface of a joint of given form when
we double or treble its weight ; and, vice versa, the less the weight,
the greater the surface in proportion to the weight. This is obvious
enough when we consider that we can not cut a single lump of any-
thing into halves without exposing or creating two fresh surfaces where
no surfaces were exposed before. As the evaporation of the juices is,
under given conditions, proportionate to the surface exposed, it is evi-
dent that this process of converting the inside middle into two outside
surfaces must increase the amount of evaporation that occurs in roast-
ing.
What, then, is the remedy for this ? It is twofold: First, to seal
up the pores of these additional surfaces as completely as possible ; and,
secondly, to diminish to the utmost the time of exposure to the dry
air. Logically following up these principles, I arrive at a practical
formula, which will probably induce certain orthodox cooks to de-
nounce me as a culinary paradoxer. It is this : That the smaller the
joint to he roasted the higher the temperature to v:hich its surface
should he exposed. The roasting of a small joint should, in fact, be
conducted in nearly the same manner as the grilling of a chop or steak
described in my last. The surface should be crusted or browned —
burned, if you please — as speedily as possible, in such wise that the
juices within shall be held there under high pressure, and only al-
lowed to escape by burst and splutters, rather than by steady evapora-
tion.
The best way of doing this is a problem to be solved by the prac-
tical cook. I only expound the principles, and timidly suggest the
mode of applying them. In a metallurgical laboratory, where I am
most at home, I could roast a small joint beautifully by suspending it
inside a large red-hot steel-melter's crucible, or, better still, in an appa-
ratus called a " muffle," which is a fire-clay tunnel open in front, and so
arranged in a suitable furnace as to be easily made red-hot all round.
A small joint placed on a dripping-pan and run into this would be
equally heated by all-round converging radiation, and exquisitely
roasted in the course of about ten to thirty minutes, according to
its size. Some such an apparatus has yet to be invented in order that
we may learn the flavor and tenderness of a perfectly-roasted small
joint of beef or mutton.
For roasting large masses of meat, a different proceeding is neces-
