DISTRIBUTION OF NORTH AMERICAN FORESTS. 517
The difference of time is so great that the smaller relative surface
is insufficient to compensate for the evaporation that must occur if the
grilling principle, or the pure and simple action of radiant heat, were
only made available, as in the above ideal roasting of the small joint.
What, then, is added to this ? How is the desiccating difficulty
overcome in the large-scale roasting ? Simply by hasting.
All night long and all the next morning men were continuously at
work pouring melted fat over the surface of the slowly-rotating car-
cass of the Warwick ox, skillfully du'ecting a ladleful to any part that
indicated undue dryness.
By this device the meat is more or less completely enveloped in
a varnish of hot melted fat, which assisted in the communication of
heat while it checked the evaporation of the juices. In such roasting
the heat is partially communicated by convection through the medi-
um of a fat-bath, as in stewing it is all supplied by a water-bath.
I purpose making an experiment, whereby this principle will be
fully carried out. I shall melt a sufficient quantity of mutton-fat to
form a bath, in which a small joint of mutton may be immersed, or of
beef -fat for beef ; and then keep the melted fat at about the cooking
temperature, or a little above it — say the boiling-point of water, which
will be indicated by the spluttering due to the evaporation of the
water in the meat. The result of this experiment will be duly re-
ported to the readers of " Knowledge " when I reach the general sub-
ject of frying. In my next I must continue this subject of roasting,
which is by no means e?;hausted yet. Count Rumford devotes sev-
enty pages to it, and I quote his words for my own use. He says :
" I shall, no doubt, be criticised by many for dwelling so long on a
subject which to them will appear low, vulgar, and trifling ; but I
must not be deterred by fastidious criticisms from doing all I can do
to succeed in what I have undertaken. Were I to treat my subject
superficially, my writing would be of no use to anybody, and my labor
would be lost ; but by investigating it thoroughly I may, jjerhaps,
engage others to pay that attention to it which, from its importance,
it deserves." * — Knowledge.
THE GEOLOGICAL DISTRIBUTION OF NORTH AMERI-
CAN FORESTS.
By THOMAS J. HOWELL.
THE causes which have determined the present distribution of the
flora of the world have occupied the minds of some of the ablest
students of natural history, but no satisfactory solution of the problem
has yet appeared. If we accept the theory of Raumer, that plants are
* "Essays Political, Economical, and Philosophical," vol. iii, p. 129.
