5i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
limited in their northern extension by heat alone, we shall find many
anomalies difficult to reconcile, as no isothermal lines limit s^^ccies.
Kor will De Candolle's theory, that the limits are governed by the val-
ues of heat which are useful to a plant, assist the student ; for climatic
causes are not the only ones which limit vegetable species, or we should
then find the same species growing in every portion of any isothermal
belt of a continent, where the same conditions of heat and moisture
exist, which is not the case. Some species, apparently very local in
their habits and confined to a very limited area, are found many miles
farther north, with no intervening stations. For example : the Shizcea
jyusilla, a little fern, was thought to be peculiar to New Jersey, where
it is confined to the pine-barren district, but it has lately been found
in Nova Scotia and Newfoundland, while no intervening stations have
as yet been reported.
Plere we have a plant, capable of propagating itself in New Jersey,
which was long thought to be its only home, reappearing several de-
grees farther north, Avhere the climate is colder and otherwise different,
and yet unknown west of the Alleghany Mountains, where the climate
is very like that of New Jersey. Neither do we find many of the
plants of the western slope of the Alleghanies growing upon the east-
ern side.
It is well known that if a piece of coniferous forest be cleared of its
timber, in Virginia or Pennsylvania, its site will soon be covered with
a growth of deciduous trees, but, if then left undisturbed, the conifer-
ous trees of the original growth will finally reassert their supremacy,
and in course of time the forest again becomes exclusively coniferous.
The black-walnut {Juglans niger), which grows naturally from North
Carolina to the Great Lakes, and will grow with equal luxuriance on the
Pacific coast at latitude 45°, bearing fruit which will germinate if
planted, has never yet been known by the writer to grow in Northern
Oregon if left to itself. I have examined the walnuts in the spring in
Oregon, which fell from the trees the previous fall — they were inva-
riably rotten. Now, as one of the necessary conditions of plant-distri-
bution is the production of seed which will grow unaided by man upon
the soil which supports the parent, it follows that there is some other
cause than the requisite amount of heat that prevents the black- walnut
from becoming naturalized in Oregon.
In the Smithsonian Report for 1858, page 246, is an article by Dr. J.
G. Cooper on the " Forests and Trees of North America," accompanied
with a map of North America north of Mexico.
This map * is divided into provinces and regions, according to the
distribution of forest-trees, and the views herein maintained will be
more intelligible to the reader who will refer to it, and compare it with
a geological map of the same territory.
* A better map forms the frontispiece to the Agricultural Report of the Patent-OflBce
Report for I860.
