DISTRIBUTIOX OF NORTH AMERICAN FORESTS. 519
It will perhaps be best to describe the provinces briefly :
The Lacustrine province extends from the Rocky Mountains east
to the coast of Labrador, and from the northern limit of trees south
to latitude 42° at or near the level of the sea. The line marking the
southern boundary curves gradually from west to northwest ; com-
mencing at the west end of Lake Erie, on reaching Lake "Winnipeg it
pursues a northwestern direction to the base of the Rocky Mountains
about latitude G0°.
The Appalachian province comprises the Atlantic States south of
latitude 43° and east of the border of the j^rairies ; the latter, com-
mencing at the west end of Lake Erie, forms a curve nearly parallel
to the Atlantic coast, and ends at the southwest corner of Louisiana.
The Campestrian province commences at latitude G0° in the
Rocky Mountains ; its northern boundary extends southeast to Lake
Erie ; its eastern boundary extends from the latter point south to the
mouth of the Sabine River. The valley of the Rio Grande forms the
southern boundary. The western boundary is formed by the base of
the Rocky Mountains, extending northwest from longitude 104" 30' to
latitude 60°.
The Rocky Mountain province embraces the high central moun-
tains from the Campestrian province to the foot-hills of the Cascade
and Sierra Nevada Mountains.
The Caurine province begins at the northern limit of trees, on the
Pacific coast, and extends east to the western boundaries of the La-
custrine and Campestrian provinces. Its southern boundary begins at
latitude 48°, on a southern extension of the western boundary of
the Campestrian province, extends northwest to the British line at its
junction with the line between Washington and Idaho Territories,
thence south to latitude 42°, and then southwest to the Pacific Ocean
at latitude 38°.
The Nevadian province lies south of the Caurine, between the
Rocky Mountain province and the Pacific Ocean.
The Mexican province lies south of the Rocky Mountain prov-
ince, between the Campestrian on the east and the Xevadian on the
west.
Now, comparing this forest - map with a geological map of the
territory embraced, it will be found that the provinces and regions of
the former coincide with the geological formations to a remarkable
degree.
Beginning with the Lacustrine province it will be found that the
formation is mostly granite, or what is popularly known as such, with
some beds of Silurian and Devonian ; also a few patches of tertiary
rocks along the coast. Hence, the three regions comprising this
province are really but one ; and, accordingly, it has no trees not found
south of it in the Alleghany Mountains, which are an extension of the
granitic rocks. This province is characterized by its great numbers
