520 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of coniferous trees ; while some of the trees peculiar to the valleys
west of the Alleghanies grow on the Silurian and Devonian beds.
The Appalachian province is composed of all the geological forma-
tions of North America, and its regions are very distinct.
The Alleghany region, comprising the eastern slopes of the up-
lands, and the lower Alleghanies, terminating in a point of latitude 34°
in Georgia, is mostly granitic, but has streaks of Silurian and Triassic
running through it. We find the same class of trees in it that grow
in the Canadian region (Canada), with a few added Avhich are perhaps
limited by heat. These, with a few oaks and hickories, which are more
prevalent on the Triassic formation than elsewhere, form the bulk of
the forest-growth.
The Ohio region, embracing the eastern uplands of the Ohio Valley,
east of the prairies and north of latitude 38°, is composed geologically
almost wholly of Silurian, Devonian, and carboniferous beds, covered
in i^laces with drift from the north. It is marked by its large number
of deciduous trees, no other country boasting of so many fine oaks,
hickories, and walnuts. It is, however, very poor in conif erte, and, but
for a few stragglers, might be said to have none. Allied species are
found to be plentiful in the tertiary formation nearly across the conti-
nent, indicating that this class of trees at one time reached from the
Alleghanies to the Rocky Mountains, the middle of the belt having been
destroyed by the more recent changes of the physical conditions of the
earth's surface. As they have never returned since the glacial epoch,
the inference is that the conditions of soil and climate have been so
changed that the country west of the ninety-seventh degree of longi-
tude is not capable of supporting these trees.
The Tennesseean region is a southwestern continuation of the
Ohio region. It is composed of the same geological beds, with a few
spurs of the granite ridges of the Alleghanies running into it, and
therefore contains more coniferse than the Ohio region. Still, the
bulk of its timber is of the same class of broad-leaved trees that are
found north of it, the only differences being such as climate alone
makes.
The Carolinian region borders on the Atlantic coast between the
Alleghany Mountains and the ocean from Middle Georgia to Long
Island. It is composed of cretaceous and tertiary beds, with a strip
of Triassic along the western edge. In the northern portion are some
beds of drift of granite from the north. Here we have a distinct class
of coniferffi on the cretaceous beds that are peculiar to this region,
and another class on the drift that are also found growing farther
north. Arthur Hollick,* who has made observations on the flora of
Staten Island, says : " TVe have on Staten Island two well-marked
geological formations : the drift, which covers about two thirds of the
entire island, nearly all of the northern part, and extending as far
* " Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club," vol. vii, p. 14.
