DISTRIBUTION OF NORTH AMERICAN FORESTS. 523
impression on the flora, are all jirairie, "s^-ith scattered groves of oak
( Quercus gargana), and this of but one species. The Abies Douglasii,
Pimis ponderosa, and TJaiga gigantea, are samples of this flora, for I
have never seen any of them growing on any land that Avas not made
from the disintegration of basaltic rocks.
The Kevadian province is composed of nearly all the geological
formations common to North America, and, in accordance with our
views, it has a flora of corresponding variety. Nearly all the genera
of Eastern forests are represented, though different species are com-
mon. It has some very local trees, no doubt confined to geological
formations of a peculiar character. Of these are the two Sequoice —
the redwood and the " big tree." The former is confined to a narrow
strip along the coast, the latter to the tops of the high mountains in
isolated groves. Exact data are wanting, but it appears from the
geological maps at the writer's command that the redwood is con-
fined to the cretaceous formation which extends from about latitude
34° to 40°. As this is about the range of the redwood-groves, it will
probably be proved, on close investigation, that this tree is confined
to the above formation.
The Sequoim have a peculiar interest for the students of natural
history, being the only living representatives of a once large and widely-
distributed genus now found in the tertiary beds from British Columbia
to California, and east to Nebraska. It appears to have been nearly
exterminated about the glacial epoch, and is now confined to small
localities that appear not to have been covered by the ice at that time.
In the foregoing pages I have made use only of trees to illustrate
the aflinity of plants for certain geological strata, but, should I have
taken the general flora, the argument would appear still more convinc-
ing. To do this, however, it would have been necessary to divide the
country into smaller regions, and to have given the geological charac-
ters more in detail than is at present practicable.
Were other proofs wanting to demonstrate the intimate relations
existing between geological formations and the geographical distribu-
tion of the flora, they are close at hand in the writings of our eminent
botanists. Sir Joseph D. Hooker, in a lecture on the distribution of
the North American flora,* treats the subject upon the theory that all
plants originated from small centers of creation and spread by slow
encroachment upon the adjacent territory as fast as this was in a con-
dition to receive them, and that climatic influences alone limit their
extension. He makes four general floral regions :
" 1. The great Eastern forest-region, extending over half the conti-
nent, and consisting of mixed deciduous and evergreen trees, reaches
from the Atlantic to beyond the Mississippi, dwindling awa}' as it
ascends the western feeders of that river on the prairies. It is note-
worthy for the number of kinds, especially of deciduous trees and
* "American Naturalist," xiii, 155.
