524 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
shrubs, to be found in it. . . . 2. The prairie-region succeeds ; a grassy
land, Tvith many peculiar herbaceous American genera, including Mexi-
can tyjDcs, of which last the most conspicuous are a yucca and the
cacti, which latter increase in number as the Rocky Mountains are ap-
proached, where they form a noticeable feature in the landscape. In
the pai'ks and lower valleys of the Rocky Mountains, deciduous trees
are few and scattered, and the forest is an open one of conifers. . . .
Higher on the mountains the coniferous forests are dense. ... 3. De-
scending to the sink-region, . . . deciduous trees are very few and
confined to the gullies of the mountains. . . . The hardy sage-brush
{Artemisia) covers immense tracts of dry soil, and saline plants oc-
cupy the more humid districts. 4. The Sierra Nevada is clothed with
the most gigantic coniferous forests to be found on the globe, among
which a very few species of deciduous trees are scattered ; but none of
these are identical with trees of the Eastern forests."
Applying the geological charts to these four general floral regions,
we find corresponding to each of them respectively : 1. The great
Silurian and carboniferous beds, with their large varieties of decidu-
ous trees, the Alleghanies on the east, with their coniferous plants,
and the loess-beds on the west, with their peculiar prairie flora,' and a
few trees along the streams. 2. The deeper loess-beds with a pecul-
iar flora, and the Rocky Mountains with their mixed geological char-
acters, mainly volcanic, and with a mixed flora of Eastern and Western
trees, the latter predominating. 3. The tertiary beds of the saline
region, which are different from those of the East, with their peculiar
sage-brush and saline flora. 4. The Sierra Nevada region, with mixed
geological characters of gneiss and lava, and a mixed Mexican and
Northwest flora.
Thus, from more than one point of view, the Xorth American flora
is susceptible of being divided into three or more distinct floras, cor-
responding to the different geological formations which they inhabit.
PERKIER ON THE THEORY OF DESCENT.
By M. a. ESPIXAS.
THE preface of twenty pages with which M. Edmond Perrier has
introduced M. Leveque's French translation of Mr. Darwin's essay
on " Earth-Worms " is a masterly work, the importance of which will
escape no one. We know that this eminent naturalist, after having
given a quite cool reception to the theory of descent, at last, in his
"Colonies Animales," accepted it, under reserves, the tendency of
which was to restrict the bearing of evolution at different points.
First, he denied that that theory could explain the passage from the
