526 THE POPULAR SCIEJ^CE MONTHLY.
dependence, one npon another, and provoke morphological variations
which wholly change the aspect of each one of them. " The probosces
of bees and of butterflies would be useless to them if there existed no
flowers." The teeth of mammals tell what their regimen is. All their
structure is likewise derived and by a kind of reaction from it. " The
tongue of the ant-bear and its enormous salivary glands can evidently
be useful only for the capture of ants, termites, and other insects liv-
ing in societies. There are insects that never come out of the ant-
hills ; some of them are blind, and others can not eat anything but
the food with which the ants gorge them." Innumerable parasites
have been modified in a similar manner by the animal environment
accidentally chosen by them ; and all, starting from very different
points, have, under the empire of analogous conditions of existence,
put on similar characters. It is Darwin's glory to have established
that while the physical and organic mediums are incessantly changing
and endlessly producing the most varied and most unforeseen condi-
tions, there are none among them to which organisms have not been
able to bend themselves with a flexibility almost without limits.
These relations of the being with its medium furnished " the most
powerful arguments for the doctrine of final causes. For this doc-
trine will hereafter be substituted a higher, a broader philosophy, a
conception of the living world which will be wonderful only by its
majestic simplicity. Every adaptation of a living being to a deter-
mined mode of existence has become no longer only a marvel to ad-
mire, but is also a problem to be resolved. This study, in fact, is
that of the whole of natural history."
At this point is given a brilliant picture, in which, reviewing the
great divisions of the animal kingdom, the author designates in each
of the dominant forms of living beings the effect of the conditions of
their existence. Every type, we may say, is thus formed by these con-
ditions. To them must be attributed not only the variations in detail
which only are commonly called adaj)tations, but the essential traits of
the type, "due also to an anterior adaptation, the effects of which
have been transmitted from more or less remote ancestors to their j^os-
terity." It results from this that the characteristics proceeding from
the most ancient adaptations should be and are the most widely spread.
And, as it is precisely the degree of generality of a characteristic
which gives it its methodical value (the most general have been called
dominant by Cuvier), their order of subordination is simply their
order of antiquity. "The classifications, of which the dryness was
formerly legendary, thus become all-palpitating with historical inter-
est," for they relate to us the series of conditions of which the animal
kingdom is the work and the witness.
Must man be excepted from the general operation of these laws ?
In no way. It is from the natural sciences thus renovated that we
must demand, says M. Perrier, " an exact and scientific notion of the
