528 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pages, in -wliich Mr, Karl Knortz, under the title " Mythology and
Civilization of the North American Indians," gives the impression
made on him during a visit among the Indians. Having read such
books as we have on the subject, he has selected and briefly sketched
a few of the myths, drawing some deductions from them. In the sec-
ond part of the pamphlet he takes a rather favorable view of the
prospect of civilization among the remaining tribes. It will be a pity
if the book is not translated, as its pleasant style would make it pop-
ular reading among many who are not capable of taking it in the
present form. We call attention to this book as an indication that the
subject is receiving the attention abroad which it should have at home.
In what follows, an attempt is made to indicate a direction in
which the Indian myths throw light on early religion. There is noth-
ing new in the view taken, though it is one which has not yet re-
ceived sufiicient consideration.
The civilization of Europe to-day is generally accepted as the re-
sult of passing through three stages of social growth :
First, that of hunters, wandering over the country in search of
animal food for daily sustenance.
Second, that of nomadic shej)herds, moving about from pasture to
pasture with herds of domesticated animals, which supply food and
clothing more regularly and with less hardshij) than does the hunt.
Third, the stage of agriculture, when the plow anchors man to the
spot of chosen land. Out of this has grown, after a long and tedious
struggle, our complicated commercial civilization.
The Indian belongs to the first of these stages, and in attempting
to civilize him we are trying to raise him to the third, without his
having passed through the second. To say the least, it is extremely
doubtful if even our assistance can accomplish a result which Nature
has denied everywhere else. However, to return, the Indian myths
are those of a hunter ; and the Aryan was once, long, long ago, a
hunter. This point of contact is what gives the myths their principal
interest. They preserve the religious feeling of what is considered
the earliest civilization, and are, therefore, valuable to a student of
the progressive growth of religion ; and this, however different an-
thropology and physiology may show the Aryan and Indian.
In all religions there are two great omnipresent relations — of man
to nature, to God, and of man to man. One is the worship side, the
other the moral side. Confining ourselves to the relation of man
to nature, what has the study of early Aryan myths shown to be
man's first concejition of the nature around him ? The Hindoos have
probably wandered less over the face of the earth, and suffered less,
than any other Aryan people. Their early religious records are con-
sequently the clearest and the best preserved. From these it appears
that the earliest religion was what is now called animisn. This is,
as you choose, the soul, ghost, or spirit theory of nature ; and is sup-
