53°
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
kan. " He looks at sun, moon, and stars, but knows not who made
them, or of what they are composed ; he hears the winds, but, as their
nature and source are to him unknown, they are icaJcan.''''
To the Indian, wind and his own breath are of all nature most like
bis conception of the spirit force, and so these are regarded as sym-
bols, even as embodiments, of the spirit. The principal Creek god is
" the Lord of Breath " ; of the Cherokees, " The oldest of the winds " ;
of the Choctaws, simply " storm- wind."
Like the Aryans, the Indians believe in immortality, and perform
elaborate ceremonies for the benefit of departed souls.
Not content with souls and spirits in themselves and in the forces
of nature, they give them also to animals ; so that in the dog compan-
ion is often the guardian spirit of the Indian.
As you have already noticed, there are spirits of unequal rank and
unequal powers in the Indian animism, but, though a principal spirit is
at times found, yet there is no idea of a single all-powerful spirit from
Avhicli all others come !
Now for some examples of the Indian polytheism. Compare the
following story with some myths of early Europe. It is given in the
words of jMr. Knortz : " When the world still lay in darkness, say
the Mixtecas, there appeared a god, 'lion-serpent' by name, and a
goddess, ' tiger-serpent.' They went to live on a high mountain, where
two sons were born to them, one of whom they named ' Wind of the
Nine Serpents,' and the other, ' Wind of the Nine Caves.' When the
elder of these wanted amusement, he assumed the form of an eagle and
flew about in the world ; but the other changed himself to a winged
serpent, in which shape he could fly not only through the air, but also
through rocks and mountains." How nearly is this play of fancy like
that which in dark Europe created dragons for the fabled knights.
The Algonquins have a hero-god, Menabuscho, whose remarkable
adventures Mr. Knortz recounts at some length. Among others is an
incident of the mysterious value of dragon-oil, which we have learned
in the Siegfried myth : " Then he (Menabuscho) set out to war against
the great chief Pearl-feather, who had slain his grandfather. He
shot the serpent standing guard, and with the oil of the royal beast
greased his boat, so that without stopping it ran through the fatal sea
of misfortune." After death it became the privilege of Menabuscho
to lead the souls of Indians into paradise.
There are numerous myths of the creation of the world and of
man ; others of a deluge from which only a single pair, man and wom-
an, escaped.
These few examples give but an incomplete and very inadequate
presentation of Indian mythology. But they are sufficient to show
the presence of animism, and add another straw to the already accu-
mulated evidence that animism is the first definite shape which reli-
gious feeling takes.
