LOCUSTS AS FOOD FOR MAN.
535
sculptures deposited in the British Museum represents men carrying
different kinds of meat to some festival, and among them some carry-
ing long sticks, to which locusts are tied, thus showing that they were
of sufficient importance to form part of a public feast.
Locusts have been, and are yet, extensively employed as an article
of food in parts of Europe, Asia, and Africa. The Romans are said
to have roasted them to a bright golden yellow before eating them ;
and in Russia they are salted or smoked like herrings. Pliny says
that locusts were highly esteemed by the Parthians; Herodotus speaks
of a tribe of Ethiopians that fed on locusts; and the records of their
use in ancient times as food, in both Southern Europe and Asia, are
abundant. At the present day this use still continues.
Riley, in his narrative,* says: "Locusts are esteemed very good
food by the Moors, Arabs, and Jews, in Barbary, who catch large
numbers of them in their season, and throw them, while jumping
alive, into a pan of boiling argan oil ; here they hiss and fry until
their wings are burned off, and their bodies are sufficiently cooked,
when they are poured out and eaten. I have seen many thousands
cooked in this manner, and have had the curiosity to taste them ;
they resemble, in consistence and flavor, the yolks of hard-boiled
eggs."
The Riff Arabs, when they see a swarm of locusts hovering in the
air and clouding the sky, watch them with anxiety, and when they
descend near their habitations they receive them with shouts of grati-
tude to God and Mohammed, throw themselves on the ground, and col-
lect them as fast as possible. The locusts, deprived of their heads,
legs, and wings, are well boiled in butter, and served up with a sub-
stance called alcuzcitz. The Riff Arabs consider them delicious
food. Their camels also eat them greedily. The Moors use them to
this day, by first boiling and then frying them. The Moorish Jews,
more provident than their Mussulman neighbors, salt them and keep
them for making a dish called dafina which forms the Saturday's
dinner of the Jewish inhabitants. This dish is made by putting meat,
fish, eggs, tomatoes, locusts, " in fact, almost anything edible, into a
jar, placing the latter in an oven on Friday night, and then taking it
out hot on the Sabbath." In this manner the orthodox Hebrew gets
a hot dinner without committing the sin of lighting a fire upon that
day.
The Indians of California and the Great Basin also collect locusts
for food. The Digger Indians roast them and grind or pound them
into a sort of flour, which they mix with pounded acorns, the nuts of
the pinon-pine, or with berries. This mixture they make into cakes
and dry in the sun for future use.
Among the other uses to which locusts are applied is fish-bait for
the sardine-fisheries off the coast of Spain ; and similar bait might be
* Published in 1859.
