536 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
prepared by tlie Western farmers for use upon the Atlantic and Pacific
fishing-grounds. A very important chemical substance used in the
arts may be extracted from locusts by the action of sulphuric acid.
This is formic acid, for which many applications have been found in
therapeutics and in the laboratory. By collecting, killing, and bury-
ing them in trenches, or in compost-heaps, these insects might be
utilized as fertilizing agents, or they might be collected in large quan-
tities, dried, and sent East in bales as food for poultry.
Although the writer does not profess to be an advocate of ento-
mophagy, nor does he intend to become an acridophagist himself,
unless absolutely necessary, yet he believes, with Professor Riley, that,
when the devastations of the Rocky Mountain locusts lay waste our
Western domain, the inhabitants of these regions need not die for
want of food so long as a supply of locusts exists. Persons should
not allow prejudice and squeamishness to stand in the way of self-
preservation.
A NATURAL SEA-WALL.
By LOUIS BELL.
ALONG the New Hampshire sea-coast, in the towns of Rye and
North Hampton, stretches a curious and massive formation,
which at first sight appears as if built at enormous expenditure of time
and labor. On closer examination, however, it proves to be only one
of Ocean's eccentric freaks, executed in this case with almost human
intelligence and care.
A sea-wall, compactly formed of water-worn pebbles of all sizes,
shapes, and materials, runs along the beach for about six miles, here
and there broken by rocky points and little inlets, somewhat modified
by its situation, but preserving with astonishing regularity several re-
markable features. In places it is so high and wide that one can hardly
believe it anything but a carefully constructed dike, designed to
shelter the adjoining fields. Along part of its extent, where it sepa-
rates the ocean from an extensive salt-marsh, it is utilized by the
farmers of the neighborhood for a cart-road. Along another stretch,
a plank-walk surmounts it for half a mile.
It first appears in the form of a low wall composed of three ter-
races, near Little Boar's Head, in the town of North Hampton, thirty
rods south of the slight projection known on the charts as Fox Hill
Point. This portion of the wall is only about twenty rods in length,
and seems much like a stone facing to the steep beachward slope. Some
forty rods north of the point it reappears, this time in the form of a
large and compact dike, and extends along the water-line in a crescent
form for at least fifty rods, terminating at a small cove directly east of
