546
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
The mouth-tube communicates with the inside of the box or air-
chamber, and the sound-waves act upon the tympanum from below.
On the side of the box are seen a telegraph key, e, and sounder, for sig-
nalizing between the transmitting and receiving stations. This is the
transmitter successfully used, as will be seen, by Yeates, in Dublin,
in 1865. So sensitive was this transmitter that it was found unneces-
sary, in its early use, to speak directly into the mouth-piece ; and in
practice the speaker talked and sang at a little distance from it. In
the reports of experiments with this instrument the rattling noises
which were sometimes complained of as heard in the receiver were
undoubtedly due to the complete breaking of the circuit by too loud
talking or singing in the mouth-piece. The Berliner and Blake trans-
mitters are liable, unless specially guarded, to the same misadventure
from the same cause.
The receiver in Fig. 2 is Reis's latest form of the " knitting-needle "
instrument. A helix of insulated wire is attached horizontally to a
sounding-box. Through the helix a steel wire or knitting-needle is
passed without contact, and supported at each end by a bridge. The
vibrations of this knitting-needle magnet, corresponding exactly to
the vibrations of the tympanum of the transmitter, are converted into
sound-waves by the extended surface of the box acting upon the air.
On the side of the box is a telegraph-key to communicate back to the
transmitter. The code of signals suggested in the accompanying
" Prospectus " contains the following :
" One tap = sing.
Two taps = speak."
An original telegraphic letter alphabet is also suggested, showing
how slight was Reis's acquaintance with ordinary telegraphing.
Fig. 3.
Fig. 3 represents the form of transmitter, figured and described by
Reis in his first memoir of 1861. I present it, out of chronological
order, on account of its simplicity and close resemblance to the mod-
ern transmitters. A conical chamber, a h, is bored through a cubical
