550 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
rent-regulator, identical with the combination used by Reis. Too
loud shouting in either the Reis or Blake transmitters spoils the ar-
ticulation by breaking the circuit.
Reis's transmitters have been called make- and break-circuit instru-
ments. If so, the Berliner and Blake transmitters, operating on the
same principle, are also make- and break-circuit instruments. If, on
the other hand, the Berliner and Blake transmitters, by their current-
regulators, determine undulatory electric currents, in correspondence
with the sound-waves, the Reis transmitters, by the same mechanism,
necessarily do the same.
The identity of the mechanism of the current-regulators in four of
Reis's transmitters with the mechanism in six modern forms of trans-
mitter is strikingly exhibited by Professor Thompson in a compara-
tive plate.
In connection with the Reis current-regulator, now in almost uni-
versal use, it has been in later times found generally advisable to use
an induction-coil. It is an interesting fact in the evolution of the
telephone, though it may not be stated in the book before us, that
Ferguson's chemistry, published in 1868, states that Dr. Wright in
England used a Reis transmitter in the primary circuit of an induc-
tion-coil. The combination of current-regulator and induction-coil in
the modern transmitters is therefore old.
In the third section of the appendix, Reis's receivers are compared
with recent instruments. The examination in this case, also, is much
aided by a comparative plate. Reis's electro-magnetic receiver is
shown to combine the three following essential elements, which enter
into the Yeates, Gray, Bell, Edison, and other receivers : 1. An arma-
ture acted on by an electro-magnet ; 2. An armature elastically mount-
ed ; 3. An armature of sufficiently extended surface to set in motion
aerial sound-waves. This discussion has been anticipated in previous
pages. Professor Thompson, in summing up his close analysis, points
to Reis as the genius by whom the essential principles of all the elec-
tro-magnetic receivers now in use were discovered and combined so
as to reproduce articulate speech.
A section in the appendix is devoted to the "undulatory" cur-
rent in Reis's telephone. We have already seen that the function of
the Reis transmitter was to vary the strength of the electric current,
and not to break it. Reis was accustomed to speak of opening and
closing the circuit in describing these instruments, not in the techni-
cal sense of modern telegraphy, nor with the idea of sending inter-
mittent signals, but in the sense of increasing or diminishing the
current, without going so far as absolutely to break it. This is abun-
dantly proved by the context in his descriptions, and by the operation
of his instruments. He states, in his first memoir, that, to reproduce
any sound, or combination of sounds, all that is necessary is to set up
in the receiver vibrations whose curves are identical with those of the
