CORRESP ONDENGE.
553
tries are not yet surveyed, and some of the
surveys not yet patented.) Out of this sys-
tem endless confusion and litigation arose
in settling the disputed lines and overlap-
ping entries and surveys.
This litigation was not wholly settled
until long after I came to the bar, in 1847,
and it was my fortune to be engaged in
many of these cases. In the trial of these
cases it very frequently became important
to show the date of the surveys These
dates were shown by the indorsement on the
survey itself, and corroborated by an ex-
amination of the hacks on the line and cor-
ner trees of the survey. These hacks in-
variably left a scar, which, to the practical
surveyor, was readily detected, even after a
lapse of sixty years. By "blocking" the
tree, as it was called, and taking the block
and counting the concentric rings, from the
hack made by the surveyor to the outside
of the tree, it invariably corresponded with
the dates as they appeared upon the returns
made by the surveyor, showing as many
rings as years had elapsed from the date of
the survey, thus proving that for each year
of the life of the tree an additional concen-
tric ring had been added.
The prevailing timber was oak, in its
many varieties, and they were rarely marked
unless they were at least four inches and
upward in diameter. It will be very diffi-
cult to convince an old surveyor, or an old
lawyer who has tried many of these land
cases, that each concentric ring, on an oak-
tree at least, does not indicate a year's
growth only of such tree.
Judge N. H. Swa\-ne, late of the Su-
preme Court of the United States, but now
residing in Xew York city, practiced for
many years, before he was called to a seat
on the bench, in the Virginia military dis-
trict, and is familiar with these facts. If
you will drop a note to him, he will cor-
roborate me. P. C. Smith.
CmcLEViLLE, Orao, January 3, 1853.
"WOHLEE KSTt "VITAL ENERGY."
Messrs. Editors :
In the June issue of your magazine (vol.
xxiii, Xo. II), in the opening paragraph of
an article entitled "Darwin and Copernicus,"
reference is made to Wohler as the " chemist
who by the first organic synthesis helped to
dispel the illusion of vital energy." Have
the artificial production of urea by synthe-
sis and subsequent achievements in that
line satisfied scientists that vital energy is
an illusion, or does Du Bois-Reymond so
characterize it upon the basis of his own
speculations and the conjecture of a school
of physicists'? If the non-existence of vital
energy has not been demonstrated beyond
question, does he not violate "scientific
candor" in his assertion? A well-known
chemist, for several years pupil and assist-
ant of Wohler, familiar with his work, and
conversant with later chemical research, has
told me that in his judgment the expression
referred to above is unwarrantable.
Very respectfully,
Austin B. Bassett,
Department of Physics, Massachusetts Agri-
cultural College.
AiiHEBST, Jane 5, 1853.
TEACHING ENGLISH,
Messrs. Editors :
Not long since the Board of Education
in this city decided to employ a teacher of
English and Elocution for their high-school,
one of the largest for places of equal size
in the country. But, although the Univer-
sity of Michigan, with its fourteen hundred
students, is situated here, no one could be
found among its graduates competent to
teach how to write the most important and
forcible of all languages, our own mother-
tongue, and at the same time speak it with
ease, grace, and the most artistic expression.
Hundreds are prepared to teach dead lan-
guages, none to write and speak the Eng-
lish, and hence a teacher had to be im-
ported. Herbert Spencer's question, " What
knowledge is of most worth ? " is very per-
tinent here. Why so much time on dead
languages, and none on speaking our own ?
X.
Ann Aeboe, Mich., June 26, 1SS3.
THE CASE OF THE DOG PLUTO.
Messrs. Editors:
In your issue of the present month ap-
pears the article of Mr. Eugene N. S. Kingue-
berg, describing the strange actions of his
pointer Pluto. It seems to me a strained
explanation which attributes the conduct of
this dog, as described, to supei-stilion or the
fear of ghosts, etc.
In your number of April last was a pa-
per on " Perceptional Insanities," by Dr. W.
A. Hammond, and any person who has read
that article, or who is otherwise at all fa-
miliar with the subject of illusions and hal-
lucinations, must recognize the fact that all
which is related by Mr. Ringueberg is more
reasonably to be accounted for by suppos-
ing Pluto to have been a victim of percep-
tional insanity.
The animals, sharing much with man
even as to mental or spiritual qtialities, are,
like him, subject to madness and insanity,
and there is no reason for supposing that
they do not occasionally suffer from decep-
tion of the senses. In the case of Pluto,
the first noticed attack followed immediate-
ly upon hearing the noise caused by the fall-
ing of a stick of wood in the stove behind
which the dog was sleeping. It seems prob-
