556
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
idea of evolution in the organic sphere
— the principle of heredity. He showed
that there is an element of truth in both
views, and that, while on the one hand
all ideas are derived from experience,
it is not alone the experience of the in-
dividual, but the experience of the race
and of ancestral races, by which the men-
tal elements become organized, trans-
mitted, and augmented in vast time, so
that each individual is born with a herit-
age of innate and ajiriori aptitudes and
capacities — the products of evolution.
Thus the philosophical conflict of ages
was harmonized in our own time, and
the brilliancy of the solution is already
tempting some of our ablest thinkers
to venture the assertion of rival claims
to the honor of having independently
reached this great result. But the pri-
ority of Herbert Spencer is here im-
pregnable, as is unreservedly conceded
by the most competent authorities. "We
quote the last that comes to hand. Dr.
Edmund Montgomery, in a masterly se-
ries of articles on " Causation and its
Organic Conditions," recently contrib-
uted to "Mind," thus refers to Spen-
cer's enunciation of the principle :
" Until quite recently I can not de-
tect any movement in philosophy con-
taining a germ of sufficient power to
be capable of effecting by development
the deliverance from the constant and
almost fruitless see-sawing of the two
schools. . , .
"Suddenly, however, light began to
pierce the hitherto immovable darkness.
It was Mr. Herbert Spencer who caught
one of those rare revealing glimpses
that initiate a new epoch in the history
of thought. He saw that the evolution
hypothesis 'furnishes a solution of the
controversy between the disciples of
Locke and Kant,' To us younger think-
ers, into whose serious meditations Dar-
winism entered from the beginning as
a potent solvent of many an ancient
mystery, this reconciliation of trans-
cendentalism and experientialism may
have consistently presented itself as an
evident corollary from the laws of he-
redity. But what an achievement for
a solitary thinker, aided by no other
light than the penetration of his own
genius, before Darwinism was current,
to discover this deeply-hidden secret of
nature which with one stroke disclosed
the true relation of innate and acquired
faculties, an enigma over which so many
generations of philosophers had pon-
dered in vain I "
We speak far within bounds in say-
ing that the book embodying these and
kindred views, and recasting the most
subtile and complex of the sciences,
must be classed with the few great
works of the century, the value of
which, as a contribution to progressive
thought, it is hard to overestimate.
Had Mr. Spencer done nothing more
than to make his powerful contribution
to the regeneration of mental philoso-
phy, this capital service to the advance
of thought should have been honorably
signalized by the French Academy a
quarter of a century ago. But this re-
search only prepared the way for labors
of greater magnitude. His system of
Psychology, matured in thought in 1853,
and written in 1854, shows how early
and how firmly he had grasped the
princijile of evolution at that early time.
That he should have been enchained by
the new view was inevitable. The sci-
ences were full of the raw materials of
the inquiry, and evidence rapidly accu-
mulated that a common process of un-
folding transformation may be traced
through all orders of phenomena. It
was while writing the "Psychology"
that Mr. Spencer first reached the con-
viction that evolution is a universal law
of the course of nature. So vast and
so pregnant an idea could not fail to
have an all-determining influence upon
his future course of thought. He saw
that the scientific elucidation of this
grand generalization, the discovery of
the causes and conditions of the univer-
sal process, and the comprehensive ap-
plication of the principle to the reoF-
