EDITOR'S TABLE.
557
ganization of knowledge, must be the
next great step in the progress of mod-
ern ideas. The import of the new view
could hardly be exaggerated. Hitherto
the unity of nature had been a specu-
lative conception favored by the tend-
encies of science, but not resulting in
any valid unification of knowledge. An
epoch was now reached by the recogni-
tion of a demonstrable, all-unifying,
objective law, capable of bringing the
great divisions of science into closer
co-ordination, and a more intimate mu-
tual dependence. This made possible a
philosophy of nature based upon the
sciences, and to the working oat of
such a scheme of thought Mr. Spencer
devoted all the powers of his mind.
His qualifications for the task were em-
inent. His encyclopedic acquisitions,
his remarkable power of analysis, his
capacity of organization and generali-
zation, declared by the " Saturday Re-
view " to have been unequaled in Eng-
land since Xewton, prepared him to
engage upon a great intellectual under-
taking which lie was himself the first
to conceive and to project, and he re-
solved to work out a philosophical sys-
tem of thought constructive and syn-
thetic in its predominant character, and
embodying the principle of evolution
as its central and controlling concep-
tion.
Mr. Spencer entered upon this ex-
tensive project in 1858 by drawing up
a scheme designed to occupy seven vol-
umes and to contain a fundamental ex-
position of the proofs and principles of
the theory of evolution, a broad appli-
cation of it to the laws of life, of mind,
and of human society, and finally to
ethical science by showing the bearing
of evolutionary doctrine upon the regu-
lation of human conduct — the whole to
constitute a systematic philosophy of
evolution. His method was then ma-
ture, but upon further consideration the
scheme was amplified in 1859 to ten
volumes, and embodied in a prospectus
for publication, which presented the
course of the elucidation in detailed or-
der of logical dependence nnder thirty-
three consecutive divisions, and which
referred to various extended tracts of
the general investigation already writ-
ten and published. This prospectus was
printed in March, 1860, and has been
adhered to, with no essential de\iation,
in the subsequent carrying out of the
undertaking.
Xow, in any critical estimate of Mr.
Spencer's original contributions to the
progress of knowledge, it is of the first
importance to bear distinctly in mind
the time at which they were matured.
For this purpose we are closely con-
cerned with his status as a thinker in
1858, as recognized by men of the high-
est ability while yet the general pub-
lic knew nothing of him. There is
evidence upon this point that must not
be overlooked. When Mr. Spencer had
elaborated the first programme, and re-
solved to execute it, he had at once
to meet the primary difficulties of self-
support and of publication. Thinking
there might be some Government place
of light duty and small emolument
which he could consistently fill, and
still have leisure for his labors, a few
friends were consulted, and they gave
him letters designed to be published
and to favor his application. But Mr.
Spencer gave up the plan and never
printed them, and the use now made
of them is by no consent of his. These
letters were from John Tyndall, J. S.
Mill, George Grote, T. H. Huxley, E. G.
Latham, J. D. Hooker, and A. C. Fra-
ser. Their joint import was that Mr.
Spencer was a man of remarkable en-
dowments, eminently qualified to do a
great intellectual work, which would
be an honor to the nation and a last-
ing service to mankind — a work like
that of Bacon, although more arduous
and difficult, owing to the vast accumu-
lation of knowledge in modern times.
One of the most distinguished of the
writers said :
"I am glad to have an opportunity
