558
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of expressing my sense of the value
which attaches to the writings of my
friend Mr. Herbert Spencer, and of the
high estimation in which I, as a prac-
tical man of science, hold his specu-
lative labors.
" Founded as it is upon the accurate
observation of facts, science would soon
stagnate if the co-ordination of its data
did not accompany their accumulation ;
and I can conceive nothing that would
give a more vigorous impulse to the
progress of science than the promul-
gation of a modern Novum Organon
adapted to the state of knowledge in
these days, and showing the unity of
method of all science, and the mutual
connection and interdependence of all
forms of acquisition.
"I can not testify more strongly to
my estimation of Mr. Spencer's abilities
than by expressing my belief that, if
health and moderate leisure be granted
him, he will very satisfactorily perform
this necessary piece of work for us.
And I base my conviction not so much
upon a knowledge of Mr. Spencer's
works (tliough I could amply justify it
from them), as upon that intimate ac-
quaintance with himself which it has,
for some years past, been my privilege
to enjoy."
The eminent and responsible pledges
thus tendered twenty-five years ago of
Mr. Spencer's preparation to enter upon
a great intellectual undertaking for the
advancement of human knowledge have
now been amply redeemed. Seven vol-
umes of the " Synthetic Philosophy "
have been given to the public, have
been translated into various languages,
and are recognized by the best minds
as authoritatively representing a new
epoch of thought, and as taking rank
among the monumental works of the
century. Though it may seem useless
to quote authorities in confirmation of
this statement, yet they have so impor-
tant a bearing upon our present pur-
pose that we must be excused for cit-
ing a few expressions testifying to the
position of the man as shown by the
character of his accomplished work.
Dr. Masson, of the Edinburgh Uni-
versity, spoke several years ago, in one
of his books, of Spencer as the rising
power in British philosophy ; and G.
H. Lewes, in his " History of Philoso-
phy," declared " that no thinker of finer
caliber had appeared in England." Pro-
fessor Jevons, in his " Principles of
Science," ranks the works of Spencer
as in their influence among the most
important that have appeared since the
" Principia " of Newton. Dr. J. D.
Morell, author of the " History of Phi-
losophy," testified to Spencer's " extra-
ordinary power of analysis and gener-
alization," and Dr. Fairbairn recently
declared that to conceive such a system
as Spencer's " is in itself an education
to an age." Professor Huxley remarked
before the Poyal Institution that " the
only complete and systematic statement
of the doctrine (evolution) with which
I am acquainted, is that contained in
Mr. Herbert Spencer's ' System of Phi-
losophy.' " Mr. J. S. Mill has referred
to his " encyclopedic knowledge " ; Mr.
Darwin spoke of him as " our great
philosopher " ; H. W. Beecher as " king
of the thinkers of this age " ; President
McCosh recognized his " giant mind,'^
and President Barnard speaks of him as
" not only the profoundest thinker of
our time, but the most capacious and
the most powerful intellect of all time."
These emphatic declarations regard-
ing Spencer's genius and position as
evinced by the greatness of his work
must be construed as applying to Avhat
he had really achieved in 1858-'59. It
is not that his works stand to-day con-
fessed in their supereminence, but that
he was before all other men in arriving
at the views they contain. Evolution
has now become a commonplace of
thought ; it was the guiding principle
of Herbert Spencer's intellectual labor
thirty years ago. "While yet the doctrine
was scouted as a chimera by one half the
world, and execrated as an abomination
