LITERARY NOTICES.
559
by the other half, there was with Mr.
Spencer no slightest question of its
truth, the evidence for it being to him
overwhelming and irresistible on every
hand. While a few scientific men were
giving to it a reserved adhesion, or test-
ing it in special directions, Mr. Spencer
was reconstructing the sciences by its
guidance, and building a philosophy out
of its principles. In any attempt to
appraise his intellectual rank, we are
bound to remember the originality and
the priority of the labors it is now so
easy to applaud. When it is a question
of grading the searcher after truth, it
makes a profound difference whether
he is a pioneer or a follower ; and it is
but naked justice to Mr. Spencer to
recognize that he had worked out the
grand doctrine of evolution in system-
atic completeness as now formulated
and accepted before Mr. Darwin had
published a word of his important con-
tributions to the subject.
Clearly, then, the action taken by
the French Academy is discreditable to
its intelligence and to its impartiality.
By all the equities that should control
it in the discharge of its self-assumed
office of rating the intellectual services
of eminent men, the name of Herbert
Spencer ought long since to have been
enrolled among the first in honor. By
its culpable tardiness its belated verdict
is alike superfluous to the recipient and
to the world which long ago formed its
judgment of the rank of this philosophi-
cal thinker. And when at last the de-
cision comes, it betrays a misconcep-
tion of the case, which may be fitly
characterized as a blunder, while only
the following sorry apology can be of-
fered for it. It is well known that the
French are behind the world in their
appreciation of the doctrine of evolu-
tion. The French mind has never re-
covered from the warp it received half
a century ago in getting committed on
the wrong side by the overshadowing
genius of Cuvier, whose brilliant rhe-
torical triumph over Geoffroy Saint-
Ililaire, in the walls of the Academy
itself, strongly biased the national
thought in relation to this subject.
The savants of France may therefore
be not very competent judges of the
foreign contributions to the knowledge
of it. But surely they should have
known better than to offer Herbert
Spencer the successorship to " Tappan,
of Detroit ! " In what way this gentle-
man ever got into the French Academy,
let those explain who can ; but certain-
ly, if the place was suited to him, it is
not such as should have been proffered
as an honor to the most commanding
intellect of the age.
LITERARY NOTICES.
Notes of Talks on Teaching. Given by
Francis W. Parker, at the Martha's
Vineyard Summer Institute, July 17 to
August 19, 1882. Reported by Lelia
E. Patridge. New York : E. L. Kel-
logg & Co.
The normal schools all over the land
have for the past twenty-five years been
sending out graduates whose mission it has
been to replace the old rote-system of les-
son-learning by methods better adapted to
the minds of children. We commend this
book to that great body of earnest teachers.
It contains a series of twenty-five full, clear,
and much-needed expositions of the princi-
ples that underlie primary and grammar
school teaching. The first half of the vol-
ume is devoted to lectures, or " talks," as
they are called, upon teaching children to
read, to spell, and to write. There are nine
further " talks " upon teaching composition,
numbers, arithmetic, geography, and histo-
ry. Then follow a chapter upon examina-
tions, another upon school government, and
another upon moral training.
It is said, by some of our leading teach-
ers, that the noise about Colonel Parker
and the " Quincy System " is largely due to
the prominence of his trumpeters — the Ad-
amses. And, no doubt, many willing learn-
ers will ask : " Is there really anything new
in Colonel Parker's teaching ? Have we
not, for a generation, been using identical
methods ? " We reply that this book cer-
