560
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
tainly contains a great deal that we have
not before seen in the literature of school-
reform. Candid readers, familiar with cur-
rent school ideals and practices, will see,
we think, that Colonel Parker is working
from a stand-point of his own, and that his
view of the situation is not the generally
recognized one.
The fashion of modern educational re-
formers has been to exalt " method " above
all other things. Normal pupils have been
trained early and late in metliock of teach-
ing. To the acquirement of method they
have given long practice, under sharp criti-
cism. And the practical issue of all this
drill has too often been a kind of teach-
ing which has at once fallen to the level
of dead routine. The method, mechani-
cally acquired, has been mechanically ap-
plied. Colonel Parker evidently sees this.
With him methods are nothing without com-
petent teachers ; and competent teachers
evolve their own methods. The " talks " in
this volume are mostly of the underlying
psychological principles that should shape
methods, and rarely of special practices.
He reiterates his warning to teachers against
imitation. Teaching, with him, is a vital
intercourse between the mind of the teacher
and the mind of the scholar. It is in his
greater reliance upon the guidance of prin-
ciples, and the personal activity of the teach-
er, working on his own hook independently
of anybody's method, that Colonel Parker's
claim seems to us to consist.
He has unusual insight into mental phe-
nomena. He is a student of psychology,
with an intuitive tendency to seek the causes
of things. Further than this, he has strong
sympathy with childhood, and these com-
bined traits give originality to his work as a
teacher. They make him a reformer of the
reformers. He sees through the barren
formulas and absurdities that have fre-
quently replaced the old-fashioned school
routine.
His sense of the inanity of prevailing
practices is often seen in these pages. For
instance, in speaking of so-called analytical
teaching, he gives the following familiar
example of recitation in arithmetic :
Teachei: — "If one apple costs three
cents, what will four apples cost ? "
Child. — " If one apple costs three cents.
four apples will cost four times as many
cents as one apple will cost. Therefore,
four apples will cost four times three cents.
Four times three cents are twelve cents.
Therefore, if one apple costs three cents,
four apples will cost twelve cents."
Colonel Parker adds : " I think I have
not put in all the words that can be put into
this complex and useless explanation. If
the previous work has been correct, all the
child needs to say is, ' twelve cents,' and go
on performing a dozen examples, instead of
agonizing over this one."
By " previous work " Colonel Parker
means the early study of numbers, which
should be " by bringing the mind to bear
directly upon the relations of things. ... As
well might we try to teach the facts in bot-
any without plants, in zoology without ani-
mals, form without form, and color without
colors, as to teach number without numbers
of objects. All primary ideas of numbers
and their relations must be obtained imme-
diately through the senses, and by their
repeated limitations as numbers of things,
as to how many. . . . From repeated tests,
given by myself and by teachers under my
supervision, the average child of five or six
years of age does not know three when he
enters the school-room. . . . Ability to count,"
says Colonel Parker, " must not be con-
founded with the knowledge of numbers.
Knowing a number is, first, knowing the
equal numbers that make it up ; second,
the equal parts of a number ; and, third,
any two unequal numbers in a number and
any two unequal numbers that make it up.
This applies to numbers from one to twenty,
and is learned by experiments with things.
I have tried during the last eleven years to
teach numbers to little folks, and I have
never succeeded in teaching, nor have I seen
ten really taught, during the first year. By
using language without regard to what it
expresses, fifty or one hundred may be
taught; i. e., the child, by unceasing drill,
may repeat gibberish that seems to be
knowledge to the casual observer. Ask him
to verify his statement by showing the real
relations among things, and you find he has
been repeating an unknown language."
Colonel Parker's criticisms upon much
that goes as object-teaching are equally
trenchant and thorough-going. With him,
