584 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
were but different stages of one and the same plant. This view has
long since been recognized as false. But even yet some botanists claim
that all bacteria are but one species, appearing under different forms ac-
cording to their surroundings, and that these forms are mutually con-
vertible. The question is a difficult one to answer, since bacteria of
widely differing powers may resemble each other in form. Hence, if
a species cultivated in a flask be contaminated by other germs acci-
dentally introduced, which is very likely to happen, the gravest errors
may arise. But the more our methods gain in precision, and the more
positive our experience becomes, the more do we drift toward the view
that each variety of bacteria represents a species as distinct and char-
acteristic as the separate species among the higher animals. From a
medical stand-point this view, indeed, is the only acceptable one.
A disease remains the same in essence, no matter whom it attacks
or what its severity be in the individual case. Each contagious dis-
ease breeds only its own kind, and no other. When we experiment
with an isolated disease-producing, germ it causes always one and the
same affection, if it takes hold at all.
But evidence is beginning to accumulate that, though we can not
change one species into another, we can modify the power and ac-
tivity, in short, the virulence, of parasites. Pasteur has shown that
when the bacteria of chicken cholera are kept in an open vessel, ex-
posed to the air for many months, their power to struggle with the
animal cells is gradually enfeebled. Taken at any stage during their
decline of virulence, and placed in a fresh soil in which they can
grow, be it in the body of an animal or outside, they multiply as
before. But the new breed has only the modified virulence of its
parents, and transmits the same to its progeny. Though the form
of the parasite has been unaltered, its physiological activity has been
modified : it produces no longer the fatal form of chicken-cholera, but
only a light attack, from which the animal recovers. By further en-
feeblement of the parasite, the disease it gives to its host can be re-
duced in severity to almost any extent. These mild attacks, however,
protect the animal against reijetitions. By passing through the modi-
fied disease, the chicken obtains immunity from the fatal form. In
the words of Pasteur, the parasite can be transformed into a " vaccine
virus " by cultivation under conditions which enfeeble its power.
The splendid view is thus opened to us of vaccinating, some day,
against all diseases — in which one attack grants immunity against
another. Pasteur has succeeded in the same way in another disease
of much greater importance, namely, splenic fever. The parasite of
this affection has also been modified by him, by special modes of
cultivation, so as to produce a mild attack, protecting against the
graver form of the disease. Pasteur's own accounts of his results,
in vaccinating, against anthrax, the stock on French farms, are daz-
zling. But a repetition of his experiments in other countries, by his
