THE GERM-THEORY OF DISEASE. 585
own assistants, has been less conclusive. In Hungary the immunity
obtained by vaccination was not absolute, while the protective vac-
cination itself destroyed some fourteen per cent of the herds.
Yet, though much of the enthusiasm generated by Pasteur's re-
searches may proceed further than the facts warrant, he has at least
opened a new path which promises to lead to results of the highest
importance to mankind.
The ideal treatment of any parasitic disease would be to admin-
ister drugs which have a specific destructive influence upon the para-
sites, but spare their host, i. e., the cells of the animal body. But no
substance of such virtue is known to us. All so-called antiseptics, i. e.,
chemicals arresting bacterial life, injure the body as much as if not
more than the bacteria. For the latter of all living beings are char-
acterized by their resistance to poisons. Some attempts, indeed, have
been made to cure bacterial (if not all) diseases by the internal use of
carbolic acid, but they display such innocent naivete as not to merit
serious consideration. More promising than this search after a new
philosopher's stone is the hope of arresting bacterial invasion of the
human body by rendering the conditions unsuitable for the develop-
ment of the germs, and thus affording the organism a better chance to
struggle with them. Let me illustrate this by an instance described
by Pasteur. The chicken is almost proof against splenic fever. This
protection Pasteur attributes to the high normal temperature of that
animal, viz., 42° Cent. At that degree of warmth the anthrax-ba-
cillus can yet develop, but it is enfeebled. The cells of the bird's
body, thriving best at their own temperature, can hence overcome the
enfeebled invader. Reduction of the animal's temperature, however,
by ; means of cold baths, makes it succumb to the disease, though
recovery will occur if the normal temperature be restored in due time.
In the treatment of human diseases, we have not yet realized any
practice of that nature, but research in that direction is steadily con-
tinuing.
The most direct outcome of the germ-theory, as far as immediate
benefits are concerned, is our ability to act more intelligently in limit-
ing the spread of contagious diseases. Knowing the nature of the
poison emanated by such patients, and studying the mode of its dis-
tribution through nature, we can prevent it from reaching others, and
thus spare them the personal struggle with the parasite. In no in-
stance has the benefit derived from a knowledge of the germ-theory
been more brilliantly exemplified than in the principles of antiseptic
surgery inaugurated by Lister. This benefactor of mankind recog-
nized that the great disturbing influence in the healing of wounds is
the admission of germs. It had been well known, prior to his day,
that wounds heal kindly if undisturbed, and that the fever and other
dangers to life are an accidental, not an inevitable, consequence of
wounds. But Lister was the first to point out that these accidents
