38 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The number rises at first during the hot season, but diminishes under
the influence of a progressive desiccation toward the second or third
week.
The diminution in hygrometric conditions manifested in September
and October explains the recrudescence of the bacteria during these
months. Some micrographers have suggested that the germs may be
transported by the vapor of water ; but M. Miquel's experiments in-
validate this hypothesis, and indicate that the evaporation of water
from the surface of the ground never carries any schizophytes with it.
On the other hand, numerous tests have shown that dry dusts, espe-
cially those of hospitals, proceeding from substances in a state of putre-
faction, sanious pus, and the dejections of the sick, are charged with
microbes. Great agglomerations of men furnish the most of them.
According to the measurements made in the Rue de Rivoli and Mont-
souris, the air in the interior of Paris is nine or ten times richer in
bacteria than that in the neighborhood of the fortifications. At the
observatory, the winds from the north bring many more than the
winds from the south.
The vertical distribution of the microbes also shows that they come
mostly from the dirt of our streets and houses. While a cubic metre
of air at the top of the Pantheon contains only twenty-eight of them,
the same quantity of air in the Park of Montsouris contains forty-five,
and in the maii'ie of the fourth arrondissement, four hundred and sixty-
two. These numbers are, however, insignificant in comparison with
those furnished by the analyses of sewer-waters. We give a few
specimens from M. Miquel's analyses, in which is shown the number
of microbes found in a litre of water from each of the sources named :
Condensed atmospheric vapor, 900 ; water from the drain of Asnieres,
48,000 ; rain-water, 64,000 ; water of the Vanne (Montrouge basin),
248,000 ; water from the Seine (drawn at Bercy), 4,800,000 ; water
from the Seine (drawn at Asnieres), 12,800,000 ; sewer-water (drawn
at Clichy), 80,000,000. These figures represent the minima. Left to
stagnate, sewer-water putrefies in a very short time, through the mul-
tiplication of its germs, and the microbes become a thousand times as
numerous as indicated in the summary.
Thus, we see, we are surrounded on every side by myriads of
schizophytes. What proportion, among these minute inhabitants of
the atmosphere and the waters, have a part in producing contagious
maladies and the epidemics by which the populations of our large
cities have been decimated at times ? We do not know yet. The con-
tinuation of the statistical researches that have been begun at Mont-
souris, and the microscopic analysis of the air and of water, particularly
of sewer-water, cultivation, botanical and physiological investigation,
and inoculation with the resultant germs, will certainly conduct to the
solution of the problem. Then only, having become acquainted with
our enemies, shall we be able to destroy them. The precautions that
