THE CHEMISTRY OF COOKERY. 587
maid, and parlor-maid, besides the gardener and his boy, and they dine
at supper-time.
In the days of the one marchioness and the basement kitchen, these
citizens " of credit and renown " dined at dinner-time, and were in the
habit of placing a three-legged open iron triangle in a brown earthen-
ware dish ; then spreading a stratum of peeled potatoes on said dish,
and a joint of meat above, on the open triangular support. The com-
bination was carried by the marchioness to the bakehouse round the
comer at about 11 a.m., and brought back steaming and savory at
1 r. jr.
This was not done always, but at other times, as when the con-
dition of the mistress's wardrobe offered no particular motive for going
to church, slie staid at home and roasted the Sunday dinner. The
experience thus obtained demonstrated a material difference between
the flavor of the roasted and the baked meat very decidedly in favor
of the home-roasted. Why ?
The principal reason was, I believe, that the baker's large bread-
oven contained at dinner-time a curious medley of meats — mutton,
beef, pork, geese, veal, etc., including stuffing with sage and onions,
besides the possibility of a joint or two that had been hung longer than
"was necessary for procuring tenderness. The vapors of these would
induce a confusion of flavors in the milder meats, fully accounting for
the observed superiority of the home-roasted joints.
A little reflection on the principles already expounded will show
that, theoretically regarded, a given piece of meat would be better
roasted in a closed chamber radiating heat from all sides toward the
meat than it could be when suspended in front of a fire and heated
only on one side, while the other side was turned away to cool more
or less, according to the rate of rotation.
If I agreed with the popular belief in the advantage of open-air
exposure to direct radiation from glowing coal, I should suggest that
for large joints a special roasting fire be constructed, by building an
upright cylinder of fire-brick, and erecting within this a smaller cylin-
der or grating of iron bars, so that the fuel should be placed between
these, and thus form an ujjright cylindrical ring or shirt of fire, in-
closed outside by the bricks, but open and glowing toward the inside
of the hollow cylinder, in the midst of which the meat should be sus-
pended to receive the radiation from all sides.
The whole apparatus might stand under a dome, terminating in an
ordinary chimney, like a glass-house or a steel-maker's cementing fur-
nace ; or, in this respect, like those wondrous kitchens of the old
seraglio, to which I have already alluded, where each apartment is a
huge chimney, outspreading downward, so that the cooks and their
materials and apparatus, as well as the huge fires themselves, are all
under the great central chimney-shaft.
I do not, however, recommend such an apparatus, even to the most
