596 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
glowing heat, and that of the floor in a somewhat lower degree, When
this heating is completed (the judgment of which constitutes the chief
element of skill in thus baking) the embers are carefully brushed out
from the floor, the loaves, etc., inserted by means of a flat battledoor
■with a long handle, called a " peel," and the door closed and firmly
luted round, not to be opened until the operation is complete. Baked
clay is an excellent radiator, and, therefore, the surface of bricks
forming the arched roof of the oven radiates vigorously upon its con-
tents below, which are thus heated at top by radiation from the roof,
and at bottom by direct contact with the floor of the oven. The dif-
ference between the compact bottom crust and the darker, bubble-
bearing top crust of an ordinary loaf is thus explained.
As the baking of a large joint of meat is a longer operation than
the baking of bread, there is another reason besides that already given
for the inferiority of meat when baked in a baker's oven constructed
on this principle. The slow cooling down must tend to produce a
flabbiness and insipidity similar to those of the roast meat which is
served at restaurants, where a joint remains " in cut " for two or three
hours. Of this I speak theoretically, not having had an opportunity
of tasting a joint that has been cooked in a brick oven of the construc-
tion above described, but have observed the advantage of maintaining
a steady heat throughout the process of roasting in the iron oven of a
kitchener, or American stove, or gas-oven.
AGEICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIOiN^S.
By H. p. AEMSBY.
WITHIX the past eight years there have been founded in several
States institutions which, though they have not yet attracted
much attention from the general public, can hardly fail to exert, in the
near future, an important influence both on the material and mental
welfare of the people. These institutions are the agricultural experi-
ment stations, of which six now exist in this country, with a pros-
pect of the speedy establishment of at least two more.
By an agricultural experiment station is understood an institution
established and maintained "for the purpose of promoting agricul-
ture by scientific investigation and experiments." Such institutions
have, in most cases, owed their existence to governmental action, and
have been sustained at the public expense, though in a few instances
universities and private individuals have carried on what are in effect
experiment stations, the most notable example of the latter being the
well known Rothamsted experiments of Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert, in
England.
