AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS. 603
It is this characteristic, and this alone, which gives them their greater
value, and justifies the expenditure of the public funds to make them.
Farmers have been experimenting since Adam was expelled from Eden,
yet scarcely a meeting of farmers occurs where the most diverse opin-
ions are not maintained on the most familiar subjects. Our exj)eri-
ment stations should improve on this state of things. It is a com-
paratively simple matter to make experiments — as simple as playing
Hamlet's pipe — but to so experiment as to obtain results that will
stand is quite another matter. Experimenting is an art, and requires
an apprenticeship no less than music. Now, all real scientific training
— cramming we do not consider — is a training in the art of experi-
menting, and hence the statement, that the first qualification for the
director of an experiment station is scientific training, is equivalent
to saying that he must have learned his trade.
In the second place, the director of an experiment station must
know what experiments to make as well as how to make them. He
must be familiar with the needs of agriculture on the one hand, in
order not to waste time in making needless experiments ; and he must
know what other experimenters have done, that he may not needlessly
repeat their work.
To sum up briefly, the director of an agricultural experiment
station should be a trained scientist, who has made a special study of
agricultural science, and who is reasonably familiar with agricultural
practice. We have named these requirements in what we believe to
be the order of their importance. A certain measure of all of them
is indispensable, but deficiencies in the latter two may be more or less
readily made up, while lack of the first is, in our view of the matter,
fatal.
Many other points regarding the organization and management of
experiment stations suggest themselves for consideration, but it is the
purpose of this article simply to point out the general principles which
should prevail in the founding of these stations, their organization,
and the determination of their lines of work. In the decision of these
questions public opinion is the most powerful factor, and if this
paper shall contribute in any degree to the formation of liberal and
enlightened views on a subject of growing importance, or even suc-
ceed in awakening more general interest in it, and directing inquiry
toward it, its object will have been accomplished.
