6o4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE EEMEDIES OF NATURE.
By FELIX L. OSW^VLD, M. D.
ASTHMA.
IT has been said that no doctrine can ever attain a large degree of
popularity without containing some admixture of truth. The
rare exceptions from that rule do not include that most preposterous
of all medical theories, the " Brunonian System of Physics." John
Brown, M. D., of Preston, Scotland, divided all disorders of the hu-
man organism into " sthenic " and " asthenic " diseases : the former
produced by an excess of vitality, and to be counteracted by bleeding
and cathartics ; the latter arising from a defect of vital power, and to
be cured by beefsteaks and brandy, etc. The grain of truth in the
chaff-barrel of absolute nonsense is the ^pathological influence of asthe-
nia, or a deficiency of vital power. Impaired vitality can not be re-
stored by alcoholic stimulants, but its causal connection with a large
number of functional disorders admits of no doubt. Every process
of the animal organism derives the impulse of its normal performance
from a reserve fund of vital energy and the depletion of this fund
impairs the efliciency of the organic functions. A man may be too
tired to sleep. A child may be too feeble to breathe, too weak to as-
similate its food. Exhaustion alone may lead to that total suspension
of the vital process which we call death.
But generally asthenia is only a proximate cause of disease. It
reveals a pre-established morbid diathesis by affecting the weakest
part of the organism, and its influence becomes thus localized. The
affected part may become the center of attraction for a variety of
asthenic agencies, for each successive attack increases the morbid di-
athesis, and thus, as it were, confirms the pathological precedent. This
convergence of asthenic influences is most strikingly illustrated in the
pathology of the asthmatic affections. Asthma, or chronic dyspncea,
a torpor of the semi-voluntary muscles which effect the process of
respiration, has thus far not been traced to its original cause. Pro-
fessor Reese ascribes it to a spasm of the muscular fibers inclosing the
bronchial tubes ; Dr. E. Bock defines it as a diminished elasticity of
the pulmonary air-cells, caused by an undue dilation of the lungs (as
in violent exercise). Yillemin considers it as a purely ner\'0us affec-
tion. In its most frequent form, however, it seems to be a legacy of
arrested tuberculosis — an intermittent affection induced by a tendency
to a pulmonary torpor that may remain latent for an indefinite time,
but unmistakably connected with an asthenic proximate cause. Chronic
asthma, in the strictest sense of the word, occurs only during the last
stage of pulmonary consumption. When the lungs have been reduced
I
