6o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
so after she had eaten of it she was attacked with acute urticaria
(nettle-rash), showing large erythematous patches and wheals very-
prominent on the face and neck. She then was seized with violent
attacks of spasmodic asthma, which obliged her to leave the table.
I inquired if she had ever suffered this before, and she informed me
she had, after eating hare." *
Asthma is a warm-weather disease. The first frost mitigates its
worst symptoms as surely as it would cure a fever or relieve insomnia,
and " hay-asthma," often ascribed to the effect of some vegetable pol-
len, is probably a consequence of the relaxing influence of the first
warm weather ; for in midwinter, when the air is entirely free from
vegetable spores, a single mild day, following upon a protracted frost,
may produce symptoms exactly resembling those of a hay-catarrh.
The complication of chronic bronchitis, sometimes described as bron-
chial asthma, should propei'ly be called bronchial congestion, and dif-
fers from an asthmatic affection as a constipation differs from a gastric
spasm. Asthma proper occurs under three forms : phthisical asthma
(in the last stage of pulmonary consumption), chronic asthma, and
acute spasmodic asthma. In the latter phase the disease recurs at
longer intervals than in its chronic form, and limits its attacks to a
few minutes or hours, but involves a greater amount of distress than
any other disorder of the pulmonary organs — ^not excepting the pleu-
ritic tortures of pneumonia. In pneumonia the difiiculty of breathing
consists in its painfulness ; in asthma, in the persistent torpor of the
respiratory organs. The patient feels as if the expansion apparatus of
his chest were utterly paralyzed, the inhaled breath seems to come to
the gate of the lungs and no farther ; no gasping avails ; the increas-
ing distress of the air-hunger appears only to aggravate the stubborn-
ness of the inert organ. The violence of the paroxysm often turns
the color of the face into a livid purple, the throbbing of the heart
becomes spasmodic, but, when the hopes of the sufferer are almost re-
duced to the supposed euthanasia of strangulation, the rigor suddenly
relaxes, a deep gasp fills the lungs to their very bottom, and a few
minutes after the breathing becomes quiet and regular, and only a cold
perspiration reminds the patient that he has passed through the chill
shadow of death.
As the primary cause of asthma is as yet unknown, its diathesis is
not directly curable, though its latency may be prolonged by avoiding
and counteracting the well-ascertained proximate causes. The mode
of treatment varies with this twofold object : prevention and palli-
ation — which frequently differ where we have to deal with spasmodic
affections that call for the promptest means of relief. Thus horseback-
riding is an approved cure for epilepsy, but during the progress of the
fit the application of the specific might lead to strange consequences.
Yacht-sailing in a storm would be a bad way of curing sea-sickness,
* Quoted in the St. Louis " Eclectic Medical Journal," June, 1883, p. 269.
