6o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
however, be carefully avoided, even at the risk of incurring the penal-
ties of social non-conformity. An asthmatic old Antwerp merchant
of my acquaintance used to retire to his gardenhwjs, a little summer-
house at the farthest end of his garden, whenever his feelings became
unduly excited, and also after dinner, as he had noticed that an inter-
ruption of his siesta was apt to react on his lungs. One afternoon,
however, he had a visit from a commercial associate who had threat-
ened to break the partnership, but now came to lubricate matters and
tender a very acceptable peace-offering. At his return from the inter-
view Mynheer made no attempt to conceal his glee, but suddenly be-
came thoughtful and monosyllabic. "What's the matter?" asked his
broker, " are you afi'aid it's a trap ? " — " No, no," said he, " N is
all right, but " — with a sigh — " d — n him, anyhow ; it will cost me a
week's tussle with old Nick." " With the asthma ? What ! — the
mere excitement?" — "Yes," he groaned, "the talk, the miserable for-
malities, and the tight necktie — and right after dinner ! "
Any waste of vital power may bring on a fit of spasmodic asthma,
and the aggravating effect of incontinence is so jDrompt and so unmis-
takable that experience generally suffices to correct a penchant to
errors in that respect. Like gout, asthma is a moral censor, but its
reproofs do not so often come too late. With an ordinary amount of
will-force, even persons of an inherited tendency to asthma may man-
age for years to keep its worst symptoms in abeyance.
Among the palliatives of spasmodic asthma cold water ranks first.
A plunge-bath into a pond (or tub) of water, of a sufficiently low tem-
perature to produce a gasp and a shiver, rarely fails to break the spell
of the suffocating stricture. It is the most reliable remedy, for, un-
like chemical antispasmodics, it acts irrespective of precedents — its
efficiency does not decrease with each subsequent application. After
the second or third time, " asthma-weeds " have to be used in almost
lethal doses before they produce any appreciable effect, though their
disagreeable after-effects are perceptible enough. For these weeds are
generally strong narcotic poisons. Tahac de Cidne, or " Chinese to-
bacco," is a mixture of tobacco-leaves and inspissated opium. Stramo-
nium {Datura fer ox) is as virulent as belladonna, and the smoking of
the leaves produces vertigo, heart-spasms, and violent headaches. It
does relieve asthma, on the principle that diseases yield to more se-
rious diseases. Thus the languor of dyspepsia can be temporarily
relieved by alcoholic stimulants, but the dose has to be steadily in-
creased, till the remedy becomes worse than the original evil. Such
household remedies as black coffee (swallowed by the quart) or
sulphur-and-vinegar fumes are liable to the same objection. They
help once or twice, and afterward only in monster doses. Coffee-
poisoning, which old habitues avoid by a very gradual increase of the
dose, is a frequent sequel of an asthma-cure by domestic narcotics.
The mediaeval physicians, with their penchant for heroic remedies,
