THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 611
In exceptionally malignant cases it may be necessary to supple-
ment the legumen-cure by refrigeration — sponge-baths, or artificially
cooled bedrooms ; and while there is any danger of a relapse it is the
safest plan to postpone the bed-hour beyond the usual time. After
rolling and tossing about till relieved by that form of sleep which the
Germans call " Ein-dummern " — the twilight state between sleeping
and waking — the patient is almost sure to start up with a feeling of
strangulation, but the slumber induced by the silence and drowsiness
of the small hours is not apt to be thus interrupted. Leaving the
club-house at 11 p. m., or the family circle at 10 ; then a few hours
with an interesting book, reserved for that special purpose ; perhaps
a little midnight lunch (but no coffee, unless habit has palliated its
anti-hypnotic effect) ; then a somnolent old story-book ; an easy-chair
within reach of a boot-jack, ready to take advantage of the first
drowsy spell — for those spells come and go — and a well-timed attempt
will secure immediate success, with large odds in favor of a good
night's rest.
An horizontal position aggravates dyspnoea, and with a few extra
pillows, or by simply raising the head of the bedstead, the patient can
sleep in a half-sitting posture^ and should still further assist nature by
opening the bedroom-windows, or removing his bed to the airiest
place in the house. After a heavy supper, an unventilated dormitory
alone can lethargize the lungs to a suffocating degree, for a nightmare
is mostly nothing but a transient fit of asthma.
Fresh air, combined with a lung -stimulating exercise, is the last re-
sort in an obstinate case of chronic asthma, and a foot-journey in sum-
mer adds to those stimulants the too often underrated nerve-tonic of
sunlight. Maurus Nagy, the Hungarian Natur-Doctor, used to cure
his asthma-patients by making them strip to the waist, and keeping
them at work in his mountain-vineyard. The ancient Romans had
establishments for regular sun-baths {solaria) ; and I can not help
thinking that the robust health of their country population had much
to do with their habit of working bareheaded and bare-shouldered in
while both among the North-German schnapps-drinkers and the abstemious natives of
Southern France the complaint is almost as frequent as consumption. In explanation of
the paradox some German doctors have alleged the " diffusion of the tonic eifect," se-
cured by the large quantity of the Bavarian stimulant ; others, the demulcent influence of
malt-liquors. The key of the enigma, I suspect, is the peptic influence of a liberal dilu-
ent. Our greasy, pungent, and concentrated diet needs a larger admixture of fluids.
The dread of cold water, and of water-drinking during meals, is a consequence of the
sadly -prevalent delusion that suspects the competency of our natural instincts. The food
of our arboreal relatives contains at least eighty per cent of pure water ; the diet of the
grape-cure patients about ninety-five per cent. Instinct is a pretty safe guide in such
matters, and, unless the habitual indulgence in distilled liquors has made water distaste-
ful, the stomach craves about a pint of fluids for each pound of solid food. Fresh water
is healthier than beer, but even in the form of lager-beer an abundant diluent would
relieve the symptoms of gastric distress resulting from a daily struggle with an overdose
of undiluted viands.
