FIRE-PROOF BUILDING CONSTRUCTIOX. 613
FIRE-PROOF BUILDIXG CONSTRUCTIOX.*
Br WILLIAM E. WAED.
IF society is indebted to tlie restless spirit of progress for most of
its modern comforts and conveniences, it certainly is not yet a
debtor for any methods which guarantee immunity against calamities
from fire. While other departments of industry have received the
benefits of improvement, the persistent use of combustible material for
exposed portions of buildings has limited the intrinsic elements of the
art of building construction, and confined improvements only to mat-
ters of design.
Incombustible materials are easily obtained, and, for every ap-
parent reason, much better adapted to the purpose. Doubtless, the
question of increased cost, both in money and in time required for
more thorough construction, may be in a measure responsible for the
tardiness in adopting safer methods ; and, in addition to greater ex-
penditure, there may have been a want of confidence in the fire-proof
methods which have been offered to the public for adoption. The
importance of this question induced the writer, in 1871-'72, to make
some experiments in a new and special direction, for the purpose of
ascertaining whether a practically fire-proof building could be designed
and constructed at a comparatively moderate cost.
The incident which led the writer to the invention of iron with
heton occurred in England in 1867, when his attention was called to
the difficulties of some laborers on a quay, tiying to remove cement
from their tools. The adhesion of the cement to the iron was so firm
that the cleavage generally appeared in the cement rather than be-
tween the cement and the iron.
The experiments which followed were confined exclusively to
working up the reciprocal value of beton, in combination with iron, in
the construction of beams which were designed for supporting floors
and roofs made of the same material. In this particular the facts
were conclusively developed that the utility of both iron and beton
could be greatly increased for building purposes, through a properly
adjusted combination of their special physical qualities, and very
much greater efficiency be reached through their association than
could possibly be realized by the exclusive use of either material, sepa-
rately, in the same or in equal quantity.
Experience had long ago proved that unprotected iron, associated
with combustible materials, is altogether imreliable for building pur-
poses when exposed to a severe fire-test ; but it has been demonstrated,
* Read at the meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, held in
Cleveland, Ohio, June, 1S83.
