6i4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that, if iron is well protected by a heavy clotliiDg of beton, its integ-
rity can be safely depended upon in almost any emergency.
When all doubts concerning the reliability of the several combina-
tions of materials required in the construction were removed, a build-
ing, embracing the following radical new features, was erected, for
dwelling purposes, near Port Chester, New York : Not only the ex-
ternal and internal walls, cornices, and towers of the building were
constructed of beton, but all of the beams, floors, and roofs were made
exclusively of beton, re-enforced with light iron beams and rods.
Furthermore, all the closets, stairs, balconies, and porticoes, with
their supporting columns, were molded from the same material ; the
only wood in the whole structure being window-sashes and doors,
with their frames, mop-boards, and the stair-rails, thus excluding
everything of a combustible nature from the main construction.
Beton can be used in any form of construction, and will serve the
requirements of any architectural or decorative effects. All the ex-
terior portions of this house, which are more or less ornamental in
their functions, were made of beton in place during the progress of
the work. In the interior of the house, the cornices, stiles, and panels
of the ceilings are formed of beton, and covered with the hard finish
usual in such work. There appears to be no limit to the reproduc-
tion in beton of any form used in stone masonry or in stucco. The
proportions of material composing the beton for the work varied in
strength to meet the requirements of the different parts of the struc-
ture : the heavy walls needing the least proportion of cement, while
the beams, floors, and roofs required a much larger proportion. Only
the best quality of Portland cement, clean beach-sand, and crushed
blue-stone, were used in combination with iron for constructing the
building.
The proportions used for the heavy wall-work were one part of
cement to four parts of sand and fine gravel, thoroughly mixed dry,
and dampened with only sufiicient water to give it the consistency of
well-tempered molding sand.
A finely crushed and screened, hard, blue limestone was found to
be better adapted for use in combination with the beton than a coarse-
sized stone filling, because small-sized stones pack closer than large
ones, thereby realizing a proportional saving in cement. The tests
made to ascertain the comparative transverse strength of different
compositions proved that the bond was stronger in beton made with
small stone. In breaking test-sections made of b6ton in the form of
bricks, the fracture of those filled with small stone was almost in-
variably across the stone lying in the line of fracture, while the frac-
ture of the test-bricks made with a filling of stone three or four times
larger showed a frequent tearing away from the bond between the
beton and the larger stone filling, the composition of the beton being
the same in both cases.
