FIRE-PROOF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. 615
The proportions of cement and coarse beach-sand and gravel, used
in re-enforcing iron beams for floors and roof -supports, were one part
of cement to two parts of sand and gravel. The size of the iron beam,
selected for an experimental test, was a four-inch I-beam of lightest
pattern, twelve feet long, weighing thirty pounds to the yard, and its
safety load was limited to eleven hundred and fifty pounds. A plank
mold was made the length of the iron beam, twelve inches deep by
five inches wide, in the bottom of which a layer of beton was first
moderately tamped down to an inch in thickness ; then the iron beam
was laid on the course at equal distances from each side of the mold,
and settled down on the surface of the course of beton to a good bear-
ing. This brought the top surface of the beam seven inches below
the top of the mold. The work of filling and tamping the courses
was then continued until the mold was tilled.
The reason for placing the iron beam so near the bottom of the
mold was to utilize its tensile quality for resisting the strain below
the neutral axis when this composite beam was exposed to heavy
loads, while the beton above this line was relied on for resisting com-
pression from load-strain. The beton became thoroughly hardened in
about thirty days, when the following tests of transverse strength
were made : It was placed upon suitable supports, with a bearing
of three inches at each end. A lever was adjusted so as to bring
the testing-load on a knife-edge bearing at the center of the beam.
Weight was then applied to the long end of the lever, until the stress
on the center of the beam reached nine thousand five hundred pounds.
Under this load there was a deflection at the center of the beam of
seven sixteenths of an inch, but not a sign of rupture appeared at any
point.
The load was then removed, and the beam returned to the original
line it occupied before the test, showing that the combination pos-
sesses the essential quality of elasticity in addition to the enormous
increase of capacity to resist strain over that which was possible for
either material to sustain if used separately, and in the same quantity.
It is suggested that for future construction an inverted j^-beam
would furnish a more preferable distribution of iron in the composite
beams than the I-beams which were used.
The result of this experiment demonstrated the reliability of the
composite beam of iron and beton, and showed that the adhesion of
the cement to the iron could be depended on under heavy strains. This
warranted the adoption of beton, re-enforced with small rods, for the
floors and roofs.
The beams for supporting the floors throughout the house were
placed at such convenient distances apart as to insure perfect safety
to the floors, and at the same time afford ample opportunities for
producing the best effects in deep, paneled ceilings.
All the beams were molded in the positions where they belonged.
