6i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
both for the floors and roofs, and by the same method as the experi-
mental beam above described. The iron beams varied in width and
weight per yard in accordance with their length and the prospective
load, the largest being nineteen feet long by seven inches wide.
When the combination beams wei'e completed and ready for the floors
and roofs, heavy planks were firmly placed in position and securely
supported between the beams, the upper surface of these plank foun-
dations being adjusted on a level with the top surface of the molded
beams. These planks served as the bottom of the floor-molds, and,
after the beton forming the floor was hardened, they were removed.
Channel-ways had been molded in the walls, on a line with the top
of the beams, for the purpose of sujiporting the outer edges of the
floors.
Before the floors and roofs were laid, care was taken to cover all
the suj^porting surfaces with paper, to prevent the adhesion of floor
and roof sections to their supports. This precaution was necessary, to
permit the movement of the floors and roofs that would unavoidably
take place under varying temperatures and loads.
A part of the experimental system contemplated an attempt to
warm the house by passing currents of heated air between the floors
and ceilings, and up through flues, made in close proximity to each
other, for that purpose, in the interior walls of the building; and it
was necessary to core out a liberal area of lateral openings through the
upper portion of the beams, in order to permit a free circulation of
heated air. The ceilings rested upon flanges projecting from the lower
portion of the beams, as shown in Fig. 1.
Instead of using sand and gravel, or both, in combination with
cement, for floor and roof construction, the preliminaiy experiments
that proved the superior value of broken blue-stone for massive work,
led to the adoption of washed, fine screenings from the same material
for the floors and roofs, because its greater angularity insured a
stronger bond in the work than could be realized by using sand and
gravel.
The proportions of materials used for this purpose were, one part
of Portland cement to two parts of the fine stone screenings. The
preparations being completed for laying down the floors, a thin course
of the beton was first put on, and evenly tamped down, to about an
inch in thickness, over the whole space intended to be covered. Then
rods of iron, five sixteenths of an inch in diameter, were placed both
longitudinally and laterally, at a uniform distance of eight inches
apart, over the whole surface. Then, on this, a final layer of two
inches in thickness was carefully tamped down. In about eight hours,
the beton was hardened sufliciently to allow the application of the top
surface, which was floated down with a half-inch coat of cement and
fine beach-sand mortar, made of equal parts of each. This completed
the finish, and made the Avhole thickness of the work three and a
