622 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and, in subjecting them to heat of different intensities to see how
much they could withstand before breaking up, there was no per-
ceptible difference observed in the tendency to fracture, whether the
bricks were exposed to a gradual or rapid heating. Not one of them
broke when subjected to a white heat. Several were heated to a
bright-red heat, and then plunged into a bath of cold water. They
withstood this test without showing a decidedly damaging fracture,
and one of the bricks was exposed to an alternate heating and cooling
three times before breaking up.
These results were a surprise, and they suggest the advantage of
using such a material for the walls of buildings, as a sure defense
against uncontrollable conflagrations. The facts that appear to be
established by the line of experiments are :
1. That a system of iron beams re-enforced with beton can be made
to sustain weights many times greater than the iron beams alone can
bear without re-enforcing.
2. That floors and roofs can be economically made of beton re-en-
forced with iron rods, capable of sustaining heavier loads, with a less
number of supporting beams, than any other system of flooring and
roofing, of equal cost, now in use.
3. That the system of re-enforced beams and beton floors affords
advantages for a more perfect method of heating buildings uniform-
ly than by the steam or hot-water system.
4. That the sanitary requirements of complete ventilation are
plainly within the reach of this system of construction.
5. That it affords a perfect defense against the interior destruction
of buildings by fire.
The intrinsic worth of beton construction appears most valuable in
furnishing the elements of fire-proof construction, and thus inaugurat-
ing a reform in the prevailing system of building based on the prin-
ciple that safety can be more economically realized through reforma-
tion than by exclusive dependence on insurance indemnities for losses
by fire. The amount of capital destroyed by fire appears almost fab-
ulous, and has been estimated by insurance authorities to be over one
hundred million dollars annually in this country. This enormous esti-
mate takes no cognizance of the losses due to the disturbance of busi-
ness relations and labor by such enforced interruptions of industry,
but the sum of the losses accounted for seems to be enough to awaken
an interest in the discovery of some effective remedy for reducing
them.
Yet, if the remedy is only to be found in building more thoroughly,
its adoption may remain doubtful so long as the hazardous method of
building, and the rates for insuring hazardous property, occupy their
present relations to each other. Such radical departures from con-
servative ideas of building as are herein described must necessarily
find a slow recognition.
