WATS OF PRESERVING FOOD. 625
count of the amount of sugar required to make it efficient. Dr. Bersch
has suggested a way of cheapening it by adding salicylic acid to the
sugar. His directions are to dissolve 100 grammes of sugar and
three grammes of salicylic acid in hot water, and to pour the solu-
tion, after it has cooled to about 100", over the fruit to be preserved.
If the fruits are wholly covered with the solutions they can be kept in
open vessels without changing ; but it is best to seal the vessels with
salicylic-acid paper (made by dipping common writing-paper into an
alcoholic solution of the acid), so as to keep out the dust. Thus pre-
pared, a ten per cent sugar-solution is strong enough for such fruits as
cherries, apples, pears, etc., and an eighteen to twenty per cent one
for the sweeter fruits. A difficulty in the application of this process
arising out of the qualities of salicylic acid as to solubility may be ob-
viated by previously dissolving the acid in glycerine. The old-fash-
ioned way of packing meat in salt and saltpeter is bad, because it
takes all the juices from the meats. It is preferable to prepare a brine
by heating a kilogramme of salt, 160 grammes of white sugar, and 80
grammes of saltpeter in six litres of water over a gentle fire, and pour
the mixture, after it has been cooled, over the meat.
Fruits, cucumbers, and meat, may be preserved for a long time
with vinegar, by processes which are too well known to require a close
description. Meat is not generally preserved by the direct action of
vinegar, but by the vapors of acetic acid. For this purpose the meat
is placed on a shelf in a cask, in the bottom of which concentrated
vinegar has been poured. The escaping acetic vapors exercise a pre-
servative influence which is effective for a considerable time; The-
processes of pickling and smoking are so well known that we speak
particularly only of a rapid-smoking process, which consists in painting
the meat some three or four times with a brush dipped in pyroligneous
acid, after which it acquires the taste and properties of well-smoked
meat.
The processes of direct drying, which have long been employed
with fruits, have more recently been applied to vegetables. By late
improvements they have been brought to a degree of perfection in
which the freshness, taste, and tenderness of the fruits and greens are
well preserved. Potatoes are dried by Casseten, at Lubec, into a light,
citron-yellow, gummy, transparent mass, which, when cooked with
water and a little salt, regains the color and mealy consistency of the
original tuber, and can not be distinguished by its taste from a freshly-
cooked potato.
Meat is dried, by the processes of Endemann and others, into a
very nourishing food. By Endemann's method, the meat, cut into
slices, is placed in a chamber heated to a temperature of about 140°,
in which a current of air of the same temperature is kept constantly
circulating. If the ventilation is sufficiently active the meat will be
dry enough in three hours to be ground up in a mill. The powder,
TOL. XXIII. — 40
