644 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mSECTS AND DISEASE— MOSQUITOES AND
MALAKIA.*
By Professor A. F. A. KING, M. D.
THE animalcular, or insect, origin of disease is not a new idea. It
was suggested by Linnasus, by Kircber, and by Nyander, but gained
little ground. It received a new impetus after tbe publications of
Ehrenberg on tbe Infusoria. Later, it received attention in Bradley's
work on " Tbe Plague of Marseilles," in Dr. Drake's books on " Epi-
demic Cholera " and on " The Toj^ography and Diseases of the Missis-
sippi Valley," as well as in Sir Henry Holland's " Medical Notes," and
other works.
Moi*e recently the researches of Dr. Patrick Manson in China, Dr.
Bancroft in Australia, Dr. J. R. Lewis in India, and Dr. Sonsino in
Egypt, have tended to show that the mosquito "acts as the interme-
diary host oi Filar ia smiguinis hominis,'''' and is thus indirectly instru-
mental in the production of chyluria, elephantiasis, lymph-scrotum,
etc. (London " Medical Times and Gazette," January 12, 1878, p. G9 ;
September 7, 1878, p. 275 ; December 28, 1878, p. 731 ; and June 4,
1881, p. 615).
Still later, M. le Dr. Ch. Finlay has hypothetically considered the
mosquito an agent of transmission of yellow fever ("El mosquito hipo-
teticamente considerado como agente de transmission de la fiebre
amarilla," Havana, 1881 ; and " Pathogonia de la fiebre amarilla,"
1882). These paj^ers were communicated to I'Academie royale des
sciences medicales, physiques et naturelles at the dates mentioned.
A review of them, by Dr. A, Corre, aj^peai's in the "Archives de med.
Navale," tome xxxix, pp. 67-70, 1883, Paris. (See also " Lancet," 1878,
i,p.69.)
Viewed in the light of our modern " germ theory " of disease, the
punctures of proboscidian insects, like those of Pasteur's needles,
deserve consideration, as probable means by which bacteria and other
germs may be inoculated into human bodies, so as to infect the blood
and give rise to specific fevers. It has long ago been demonstrated
that "malignant pustule" is produced in man by the bite of a fly
(" British Medical Journal," January 24, 1863, p. 239). Dr. Budd, in
the article just quoted, refers to the greater frequency of this disease
in hot, dry summers where insect life is active and teeming ; and this,
he thinks, would go far to explain the greater frequency of the malig-
nant pustule in Burgundy than in England and the north of France,
* Abstract of a paper on " The Prevention of Malarial Disease, illustrating, inter alia,
the Conservative Function of Ague," read before the Philosophical Society of Washing-
ton, February 10, 1882. For another paper, on "The Conservative Design of Organic
Disease," see this journal for June, 1875.
