INSECTS AND DISEASE. 651
work. (See also p. 416 of Dr. Johnson's work, and p. 15 of Dr. AV. J.
Evans on " Endemic Fevers of West Indies," 1837.)
Dr. Oldham (" What is Malaria ? " p. 172) tells us that the Jeevas of
the Punjaub, employed in fishing and catching wild-fowl, spend the
whole night in their boats, under the reeds of the marshes, " unharmed
in the midst of malaria " ; but they are wrapped from " head to foot "
in a peculiar costume that completely envelops them, and which they
always put on at sunset ; and, moreover, a smoldering fire is kept up
in the boat.
It is almost needless to add that, while these nets, curtains, etc., can
hardly be conceived to intercept marsh-air, they certainly can and do
intercept and protect from mosquitoes.
18. Malaria spares no age, but it affects infants much less fre-
quently than adults.
The child in utero has even been alleged to suffer from ague when
its mother was affected : she has felt it, as she supposed, shivering or
executing spasmodic movements during the paroxysm, and Guch in-
fants have been born with enlarged spleens. Nevertheless, it is a mat-
ter of daily observation that the sucking infant is less liable to malarial
disease than older children and adults.
Young infants, however, be it remembered, are usually carefully
housed, and in summer their beds or cradles are generally provided
with mosquito-curtains to keep off house-flies, and they may thus be pro-
tected from mosquital inoculation. Furthermore, since the human in-
fant, in savage life, and without the artificial protection of gnat-cur-
tains, would be presumably helplessly exposed to mosquito-bites, it
would not surprise us if Nature had given the infant some inbred ec-
centricity by which the inoculations would be rendered harmless ; just
as the bite of the African tsetse-^j, which will destroy cows and oxen,
is perfectly harmless when inflicted upon the sucking calf, as attested
by Burton, Livingstone, and Stanley.
19. " Of all human races the white is most susceptible to marsh-
fevers, the black least so."
The black man, however, is not entirely exempt, and is probably
more secure in his native clime than in the United States and other
civilized countries to which he has been imported. Acclimatization is
alleged to be the proper explanation of this exemption. The negro,
it is said, is born in a country where he is obliged almost incessantly
and universally to breathe malarial emanations ; he is descended from
ancestors who, from prehistoric times, have lived in such poisoned
air ; he has thus become acclimatized to it more than any other race,
and on this account is able to prosper in places where the white man
would suffer for a long time (see Quatref ages's " Human Species," p.
223, Appletons' "International Scientific Series"). But we are not
told in what this acclimatization consists. Will the mosquito theory
furnish any probable explanation ?
