652 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Crude, simple, and at first sight ludicrous as it may appear, it is
nevertheless worthy of consideration that the negro is black, and, in
the absence of moonlight or artificial illumination, can not at night be
so readily seen as a white man ; he may therefore on this account escape
the sight, and consequently the bite, of the mosquito. The deep tint
of his skin possibly constitutes a ^^ protective coloring,^'' such as in
many other species affords a defense against natural enemies. More-
over, the habit, common with many negro races in their native heath,
of daily anointing the body with grease, affords additional protection
against mosquitoes, as do also, probably, the offensive odor and greasi-
ness of his cutaneous secretions. In this connection the work of Dr.
Balfour on " Sol-Lunar Influence " in malarial fevers, hitherto ignored,
deserves reconsideration. The light of a full moon would render the
negro more visible to his culicidal enemy.
When the negro is imported into this country, and subjected to the
conditions of civilized life — which usually comprise, among the rest,
his remaining during a part of the evening in rooms artificially illumi-
nated, or sleeping with his black body portrayed in bold relief upon
white bedclothing — the mosquital blood-suckers will then have little
difficulty in finding their victim, notwithstanding his protective mela-
notic mantle.
The Coxservative Function of Ague. — In my original paper,
read before the Philosophical Society of Washington, on the 10th of
February last (and of which, as I have said, the pi'esent production is
an abstract), I suggested that the natural conservative design of the
processes embodied in the term ague was to develop malarial melano-
sis — in fact, to change the skin from white to black, thus securing adap-
tation to (i. e., protection against) the environment of inoculating gnats,
by clothing the individual with a cutaneous mantle of " protective
coloring." The spleen I therefore regarded as the organ, one of whose
offices is, as it were, to preside over and determine the cutaneous col-
oring of the individual — a function not hitherto ascribed to it ; though
its pigment-forming function, by destruction of blood-corpuscles in its
substance, has been long known. The absolute transformation from
white to black under the influence of malarial disease has been fre-
quently observed (see a case by Dr. William H. Falls, in the " Cincin-
nati Lancet and Observer," November 18, 1882, pp. 479-488). Sur-
geon-General C. A. Gordon, in his account of the fever among the
British troops in Cyprus (" London Medical Press and Circular," new
series, vol. xxx, p. 303), in 1878, says : " The Forty-second Regiment
suffered terribly at Cyprus ; the men looked worse than they did on
the Gold Coast — pale and sallow, or hlacJc (italics his), the pure malarial
melanosis."
Be it noted, further, that the causes or conditions that lead to
different tints of color in different races of men — since it is now known
not to depend, as once supposed, upon heat of climate — is a complete
