INSECTS AND DISEASE. 653
and inexplicable mystery ; a mystery, however, that may be now pos-
sibly explained by man's geographical relations with his zoological tor-
mentors, the proboscidean diptera.
That malarial diseases occur frequently without the development
of malarial melanosis is not difficult of explanation. The disease is
not permitted to pursue its natural course ; it is interrupted by qui-
nine. The individual, moreover, is clothed, or protected from the sun
— an artificial appendage and addition to the organism which the an-
cestrally inherited powers of adaptation could scarcely anticipate would
occur. Possibly, if every ague-patient were exposed to a broiling sun,
naked, during the chill, and were then suffered to follow the bent of his
successive inclinations during the remaining stages of the disease, the
accumulated pigment enlarging the spleen would find its natural and
more salutary destination in an even distribution over the cutaneous
surface — a phase in the natural career of the disease which seems to
be further indicated by the circumstances that the chills of ague only
occur, in typical cases, between sunrise and sunset, the paroxysms get-
ting of later and later occurrence, as they are wont to do, until reach-
ing sunset, when the night is " skipped," and the attacks begin early
next morning. It seems as if Nature required the sun during the chill,
in order that her beneficent purpose of protective cutaneous pigmenta-
tion should be carried out.
Although the ethnological bearings of this subject hardly belong
to a medical paper, I can not refrain from expressing the suggestion
that it is not at all impossible that future study and observation may
demonstrate that much of the difference in type between the lowest
grade of negro and the most perfect Caucasian white may find its true
explanation in the changes produced by an environment of inoculat-
ing gnats. Even the characteristic type of the negro skeleton and
the capacity of his brain, it is not impossible, may be susceptible of
explanation in this manner ; for, when we remember that the spleen
and its allies are not the only pigment-forming organs, this function
being also performed by the marrow of bones, and when we recall,
further, the aching of bones that so often attends an ague-chill, in
some cases so severe as to have originated the term "break-bone
fever," it is not difficult to conceive that the bone-marrow, like the
spleen, may become congested during the chill, and in this way, in the
course of time, so far lead to modified nutrition of the osseous struc-
tures as to set up, finally, a change of type in the embryological forma-
tion of the skeleton.
In certain tropical regions it has already been observed by ethnolo-
gists that tribes inhabiting elevated regions in the interior are supe-
rior to those dwelling on low tracts on the sea-coast, the superiority
being manifest both in mental and bodily qualities. The lowlands
and sea-coasts, however, are favorite habitats of the fever-producing
and pigment-producing mosquito.
