INSECTS AND DISEASE. 655
The same thing has been observed by Macculloch in the Roman
Campagna, where, he says (p. 124), it is remarked that, " if the laborers
cut down certain plants (a bushy thistle chiefly), a fever, that would
otherwise not have occurred, is the consequence."
In opposition to the mosquital origin of malarial disease it is known
that numerous mosquito wounds may be inflicted without the occur-
rence of malarial disease ; but this is by no means incompatible with
the theory. We do not yet know whether the poison be mosquital
saliva, or whether the fever-producing element be a bacillus with which
the puncturing proboscis of the insect may be loaded at the time of
inflicting its wounds. The scratch of a lancet will not produce vac-
cinia, unless the instrument be charged with vaccine matter ; the
puncture-needles of Pasteur would be harmless and impotent, did he
not load them w^ith infecting bacteria ; so with dog-bites and hydro-
phobia, etc.
Nay, it may even turn out that, under certain circumstances, mos-
quito-bites shall even be protective against malarial disease, for as
Pasteur and others are able to produce, artificially, " attenuated cul-
ture-fluids," the inoculation of which, while producing slight symptoms,
protects from more serious phases of disease, so may there exist in
nature naturally " attenuated " fever-poison fluids, the inoculation of
which, by mosquital puncture, may produce trivial symptoms, and thus
protect from more decided attacks of veritable fever. What product
of man's art has not been anticipated by Nature ? Hardly any.
In the absence of direct experiments with the mosquito as a fever-
producing agent, I have endeavored to ascertain if the geographical
distribution of the insect had any relation with that of malarial dis-
ease. But the insect and the disease are both so wide-spread that it is
difiicult to find any locality entirely exempt from either. Tasmania,
Singapore, New Zealand, Ceylon, and the Dismal Swamp of North
Carolina, as well as the bog-country of Ireland, are said by some
medical writers to be entirely exempt from fevers. Others discredit
this statement. I do not know who is right ; but I have endeavored
to ascertain whether insects of the mosquito tribe were or were not
rife in these localities. On this point there seems to be little sci-
entific knowledge available. Of the insects of Singapore — a locality
in which the absence of fever seems to be generally admitted — I have
been able to find no account. With relation to Tasmania (Van Die-
men's Land), where exemption from fever is again generally admitted,
I have only been able to find, in the Capitol Library, one reference to
its insects. This is from the work of James Bischoff (London, 1832,
p. 33), who, quoting from Widowson's " Present State of Van Die-
men's Land," says : "The insects are not so numerous or so annoying
as in most other tropical countries. The ant, the mosquito, and a
common green fly are chiefly seen. The mosquito does not sting so
severely as in hotter climates."
