INSECTS AND DISEASE. 657
ing the indigenous air of any natural environment should be, and
without warning of danger, a means of death. Such a supposition is
inconsistent with that general beneficence of Nature as exhibited in
the signals of danger, instinctively recognized by all living things,
when contemplating their natural enemies, and when in the presence
of conditions that are destructive to life.
Man naturally loves beautiful things — woman and the flowers.
But the serpent also is beautiful — superficially smooth, tapering in
form, elegantly elastic, absolute in symmetry, undulating in motion,
every element of beauty in woman finds its counterj)art in the snake ;
yet we love the one, loathe the other — loathe it because we have in-
herited the instinct that tells us it is one of our natural enemies, whose
touch is destruction ; and, when sight is not sufficient, the rattle is
added, so that even in darkness we may hear the warning note of
danger.
When man is prompted by Nature to invade a swamp in pursuit
of fowl and fish, his natural foods, it can not be that the silent air
he breathes shall, like a subtle enemy, and without any admoiiition,,
destroy his life. But when night comes, should he there lie down to
rest, the annoying puncture of the mosquito and its siren-song, like
the warning note of the serpent's rattle, would emjihatically and per-
sistently tell him, " This is no place to sleep ! "
The mosquital origin of malarial disease is in this respect, there-
fore, more in accord with the beneficence of Nature's arrangements
than is the conception of malarial fevers being produced by the respira-
tion of a marsh-vapor.
I have before referred to " color-protection " as a means of defense
from natural enemies. Acuteness of audition is another well-known
means. It curiously happens that some forms of fever are followed
in those who convalesce by a remarkable acuteness of hearing, which
lasts for Aveeks and months, thus indicating another phase of adapta-
tion to environment, an additional means of recognizing the warning
note of the inoculating mosquito, or other insects inaudible to ordi-
nary ears. Dr. J. B. Allan refers to this symptom in his description
of a remittent fever prevailing on the African sea-coast (" IMonthly
Journal of the Medical Sciences," August, 1841, page 545). He says ::
"The acuteness of hearing sometimes came on during the second day
in those who recovered. It was very distressing for the first six
weeks or two months of convalescence ; and every wave that burst
on the distant reef was counted with pain and even dread."
If the mosquital origin of malarial fevers be correct — if protec-
tion from mosquital inoculation protects from ague — the means of
prophylaxis from malarial disease will not be difficult. It comprises
the following items :
1. Personal protection from all winged insects, especially during
evening and night, by gauze curtains, window-screens, or clothing im-
TOL. XXIII. — 42
