658 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
penetrable to their probosces — a further protection from these, as well
as from the bites of creeping insects, especially during epidemics and
endemics in jails, ships, etc., by a daily inunction of the whole body
with some terebinthinate, camphorated, or eucalyptalized ointment or
liniment.
2. Domiciliary 'protection, exteriorly, by screens of trees. Myalls,
fences, etc., interposed at some distance between dwellings and the
sources of malaria or mosquito nurseries, together with fires, lamps,
or electric lights, to act as traps for the attraction and destruction of
such winged insects as may approach nearer ; a further protection in
the interior of dwellings being secured by the use of smoke (such as
that of tobacco or pyrethrum), or of some volatile aromatic oil, as of
camphor, etc., which may be offensive to proboscidian intruders.
3. Municipal protection, by the destruction or draining of swamps
and pools which produce mosquitoes ; and by the planting of forests
to obstruct the latter in their flight, or cordons of electric lights for
the same purpose, as well as for the destruction of insects that may
be attracted by the flame or incandescence.
THE GROWTH OF HYGIEXIC SCIENCE.*
By Professor DE CHAUMONT, M. D., F.E. S.
IT is a little difficult in a necessarily restricted lecture to convey any
exact idea of the way in which modern hygiene became formu-
lated into so much of a science as it can at present lay claim to ; but
I will attempt to make a brief sketch of its more salient points. In
the eighteenth century there were several important questions in-
quired into, and to a large extent solved, of which the chief were —
1. The influence of air as a factor in the spread of disease ; 2. The true
cause and prevention of scurvy ; and, 3. The prophylaxis of small-
pox. Taking the last first, we may say that the introduction of inocu-
lation was a most important step, even although we must admit that
it introduced a greater danger to the community at large than could
be compensated for by the protection to individuals. But it was the
first step on the road which led at the close of the century to vaccina-
tion, one of the most signal triumphs of preventive medicine, and in
our own time to the magnificent results obtained by the renowned
Pasteur, results which seem pregnant with so much hope for the future
of our race.
The inquiry into the causes of scurvy was another step in advance,
of the most signal importance. No one in the present day can form
* From the inaugural lecture of the Parkes Museum, delivered June 1, 1883.
