ROW THE EARTH WAS PEOPLED. 681
without decisive proofs. Moreover, the pithecans seem to have been
evolved in an inverse direction from man. Rejoicing in the heat,
they perish rapidly when brought into the temperate zones, and this
is especially the case with the anthropoid apes. Thus, while man, com-
ing from the north, advances toward the south only when the depres-
sion of temperature favors his progress in that direction, the monkeys,
to which a strong heat is a vital element, were developed in an age
when Europe had a sub-tropical climate, and disappeared from that
continent as soon as the climate became temperate, so that their de-
parture coincides with the arrival of man. They fled south to find the
heat they needed, precisely when the diminution of the heat opened to
man the region from which it excluded his predecessors. The neces-
sity of placing the cradle of the pithecans in a hot country enables us
to separate the monkeys of the Eastern and Western Continents into
two distinct groups marked by differences in dentition important
enough to oblige us to assume an extreme antiquity for their separa-
tion. Both are descended from the leraurians, now represented only
in Madagascar, but of which early tertiary fossils are found in Eu-
rope. The most recent lemurians in Europe are found at the end of
the Eocene. It is later, in the Miocene and that not the lowest, that
we meet pithecans similar to those of the equatorial zone of the East-
ern Continent, At this epoch, which was nearly that of Oeningen and
the Mollassic Sea, which divided Europe from east to west, a sub-
tropical climate still prevailed in the center of the continent, and the
palm-trees extended up into Bohemia, along the northern banks of the
great interior sea. By favor of this temperature the monkeys occu-
pied Europe to near the forty-fifth degree, but without going above
it, to disappear forever as soon as it became cool enough for men and
elephants.
The Mesopithecus Pentellci, of which M. Gaudry has discovered
twenty-five individuals at Pikermi, was small, walked on its four paws,
and lived on twigs and leaves. The Dryopithecxis of St. Gaudens had
the characteristics of the highest anthroporaorphs, with the bestial
face of the gorilla ; but it is to this animal that M. Gaudry is inclined
to attribute the flints, intentionally chipped, according to the Abbe
Bourgeois, of the Beauce limestone at Thenay, in the St. Gaudens
geognostic horizon. The Pliopithecus of Sansan (Gers) resembles a
gibbon. To find the present analogues of the Pliopithecus and Dryo-
pithecus of Miocene Europe, it is necessary to go across the tropic of
Cancer to about 12° north latitude, or more than thirty degrees south
of the locality of these fossils. If, as is probable, the same interval
existed between the perimeter frequented by the European anthropo-
morphs and the natal region in which man was oi'iginally confined, we
shall find the latter in the latitude of Greenland, at 70^ or 75°. This
is indeed an hypothetical calculation, but it is based on a double argu-
ment hard to refute.
