PRIMITIVE MAP-MAKING. 685
works have an important defect, which strikes the eye at once. They
can not comprehend the great changes in the trend of the land toward
the different points of the compass ; but represent everything as run-
ning generally in the same direction. The student must, therefore,
make himself accustomed to this straightforward mode of projection,
in order to understand them aright. Abundant evidence, nevertheless,
exists of the value of these maps in perfectly unknown regions. C. W.
Parry acknowledges his obligations to a remarkable Esquimau woman,
Iligliuk, for a map by the aid of which he discovered the Fury and
Hekla Straits, sailing north from Hudson's Bay. Dr. I. I. Hayes
speaks of a rude map of the coast from Cape York to Smith's Sound,
on which all the inhabited places of Western Greenland were marked,
that was made for him by the guide Hans. Franklin states that in
his second voyage the Esquimaux, when inquired of, drew the outlines
of the coast on the sand, divided it off by days' journeys, indicated the
islands and their size and shape by heaps of gravel, marked the moun-
tains with sand and stones, and inhabited places with sticks, and ex-
hibited so much anxiety to be correct as to consult with each other on
points respecting which any of them had doubts.
An autograph map by an Esquimau of his own home may be seen
in the Royal Hand-bibliothek at Stuttgart, where it is catalogued
under the name of " Niakuntigok " ; and I have noticed other draw-
ings of Esquimau maps in Hall, and in the journal " Globus " for
1877.
Drake, in his "Book of the Indians," gives several examples of
maps by the North American aborigines. The efforts of these people
are of interest enough to deserve a more special account. DraAvings
in the sand are frequently mentioned as made by them ; as, for ex-
ample, by Mackenzie, by Lieutenant Whipple of the Kiowumis, and
by Captain J. Jacob of the Haidas on Vancouver Island. The Indians
have not, however, rested satisfied with these primitive methods of
representation, but have, like some Esquimaux and Polynesians, made^AV* "^ •
the great step of the discovery of portable maps, and have even made-*: -^ *^
more advanced efforts in this art, and far more extensive applicatiofiS*
of it, than the others. Their maps furnish correct data with refdf- -
ence to the roads and coast-lines, and also to whole districts, with
the rivers, mountains, towns, and the connecting roads, and have the
days' journeys carefully marked on materials of the most diversified
character. Heckewelder and De Smet describe maps that were made
with ashes and coal on pieces of bark and deer-skin ; Hunter saw in
Carolina plans of whole districts on the blankets of the chiefs, with
the boundaries of the different hunting-grounds carefully marked off.
The chiefs of many tribes were in the habit of keeping portable maps
filed, and already attached great value to them when they first came
in contact with Europeans, certainly before they had had an oppor-
tunity to learn the use of maps from them. Travelers of the seven-
