SKETCH OF SIR WILLIAM E. LOGAN, LL.D., F.G.S. 693
the coal-seams were formed, and devoted a large share of his scanty
leisure to making a geological map of the district. His drawings were
offered to Sir Henry de la Beche, when the latter began his govern-
ment survey in that region, and Sir Henry gladly availed himself of
them, giving due credit to Logan. While he remained in its vicinity,
Logan did much for the museum of the Royal Institution of South
Wales, and held the positions of Honorary Secretary and Curator of
the Geological Department. He presented to it valuable collections
of minerals and metallurgical products, laboratory apparatus, draw-
ings, and a collection of Canadian birds. Logan rapidly became known
among British geologists, and in 1837 was elected a Fellow of the
Geological Society, The next year his uncle died, and Logan gave
up his position in the Morriston copper-works.
The problem of the formation of coal-strata, which had engaged
Logan's attention, was at this time far from settled, one party firmly
maintaining that the carbonaceous matter had collected as drift-wood
collects ; another, that the seams were deposited like peat in the
swamps. "In these circiimstances," says his biographer, Professor
Harrington, " Logan had the sagacity to observe and turn to account
a fact which has settled forever the question of the origin of coal, in
favor of the theory of growth in situ. Under eighty or more coal-
seams, which occur in the Welsh coal-field, the miners had observed
the invariable presence of a bed of more or less tenacious and bleached
clay, which they called the ' under-clay ' of the coal, and which was
often of practical importance as affording facilities for under-cutting
the coal. The constancy of this fact Logan confirmed by his own ob-
servations, and added to it the further and important discovery that in
all these under-clays there occurred abundance of remains of the pecul-
iar plant known as Stigmaria, in such circumstances as to show that
the plant was in situ, and not drifted. In February, 1840, Mr. Logan
communicated his results to the Geological Society of London, in a
paper entitled " On the Characters of the Beds of Clay immediately
below the Coal-Seams of South Wales."
In his letters from Wales to his brother James, Logan had repeat-
edly asked for specimens of the Canada minerals, and had expressed
the wish to examine for himself the rocks of his native region. Ac-
cordingly, in the summer of 1840, he left England for Canada.
During his year's visit to America, he made geological studies in the
neighborhood of Montreal, in Maine, and, just before his return,
visited the coal-fields of Pennsylvania and of Nova Scotia. The re-
sults of two of his investigations he embodied in a paper entitled " On
the Packing of Ice in the St. Lawrence, and on a Land-Slide in the
Valley of the Maskinonge," which he read before the Geological
Society of London in June, 1842. From the parts of this paper
quoted by Thomas Keefer in his " Report on the Bridging of the St.
Lawrence," George Stephenson is said to have obtained useful hints in
