CHEMISTRY AXD PHARMACY. 47
who establishes the facts which are to be made use of. He spends his
time in delving in out-of-the-way corners, turning over this and that,
and endeavoring to got at the principles which underlie what is called
chemical action. Such a one is following the science of chemistry.
Now you, gentlemen, are primarily chemists in the first sense — you
are to practice to a limited extent the art of chemistry.
It has seemed to me that, during the short time to be devoted to
my remarks, it might be both interesting and profitable to examine
into the questions : What has Chemistry to thank Pharmacy for ? and
what has Pharmacy to thank Chemistry for?
As regards the former question, it may be answei-ed that, in the
first place, the desire to discover new substances for medical purposes
originally formed a strong incentive to those engaged in chemical work,
and undoubtedly a large number of valuable observations have been
made by those who were working primarily to gain possession of sub-
stances which might be valuable to pharmacy. We know that the col-
lection and the manufacture of drugs of many forms is one of the most
ancient of occupations, and it seems to have been regarded as a very
important one, as all who have ever been afflicted with the ills that flesh
is heir to (and who has not ?) can easily appreciate. The alleviation of
human suffering is a high object to strive for, and for this purpose the
physician and pharmacist join hand to hand, and they had been work-
ing together for long ages before chemistry and chemists were ever
heard of. While gaining experience which proved of direct value to
them in their professions, they were also, though unconsciously, doing
something toward laying the foundations of a science which has since
been developed. They were helping to collect the material, the accu-
rate scientific study of which was undertaken at a later date. Finally,
there came the time when men began to study some of the substances
which they gained possession of, with no other purpose in view than
to learn something more with reference to their general properties, and
their conduct under different circumstances. When that time came,
the science of chemistry was born.
Again, in addition to the collection of much of the material which
formed the basis of the first chemical study, indeed, as a consequence
of this, we find that during a considerable period — from the middle of
the seventeenth century — many of those who achieved the greatest
distinction in chemical work were those who began as pharmacists.
Among the earliest of these may be mentioned Kunkel, the discov-
erer of phosphorus ; Lemery, author of one of the most valuable of the
text-books of chemistry ; Geoffroy, whose investigations on chemical
affinity were of such great importance to chemistry ; Marggraf, the
discoverer of alumina and of the composition of gypsum ; Scheele, the
great discoverer of oxygen and of chlorine ; in France, Lef evre, Glaser,
and others ; and, finally, more recently, the most influential chemist of
modem times, the great German, Liebig.
