SKETCH OF SIR WILLIAM E. LOGAN, LL.D., F.G.S. 695
breakfast, he would buckle on his instruments, grasp his hammer, and,
with map in hand, march off to the field, in which he would toil on
without cessation, without thinking for a moment of food or rest,
until the shades of evening gave warning that it was time to re-
trace his steps toward home, or to seek some temporary dwelling."
Such a day Logan would supplement, in Canada, by writing up
the day's notes and his journal in a wigwam, often working past
midnight.
The winters, which interrujjted field-work, by no means brought
idleness to him. There were the geological specimens to sort, label,
and arrange in cabinets, reports to write up, expense accounts to pre-
pare, and maps to construct, work on which the smallness of the appro-
priations allowed only scanty assistance.
In 1850 the Provincial Government decided to send a collection of
Canadian economic minerals to the London World's Fair of the next
year, and Logan was sent in charge of the exhibit. During this visit
to England, Logan was present at a meeting of the British Association,
and read a paper entitled " On the Age of the Cojiper-bearing Rocks
of Lakes Superior and Huron, and Various Facts relating to the Physi-
cal Structure of Canada." He was elected a Fellow of the Royal So-
ciety at this time, being " the first native Canadian elected for work
done in Canada." He also served as one of the eight jurors in the
Mineralogical and Metallurgical Department of the Exhibition. Logan
was also one of the two Special Commissioners in charge of the Cana-
dian exhibit at the French Exhibition of 1855, and here as before he
worked almost incessantly for many weeks arranging his section. He
was not suffered to go unrewarded, for he received the Grand Gold
Medal of Honor for his map and minerals, and was presented by the
Emperor with the cross of the Legion of Honor. Other honors were
now bestowed upon him in rapid succession. On the 29th of the fol-
lowing January he was knighted by the Queen at Windsor, for ser-
vices rendered at the two exhibitions, and about the same time he was
informed that the Palladium or Wollaston medal — " the greatest honor
the Geological Society has to bestow" — would be publicly presented
to him at the annual meeting of the society. Other honors and testi-
monials were tendered to him on his return to Canada.
Sir William at once resumed his former labors and continued them
until he was interrupted by another exhibition — that of 1862 in Lon-
don. He was sent as Chief Commissioner from Canada, and was again
made a juror ; but the hurry in which his work had to be done, and the
invitations that were showered upon him, were not to his taste, and he
sought an early opportunity to return to Canada. Li the next year
his "Geology of Canada" was published, of which work Professor
Harrington writes : " It was more than eight years since its prepara-
tion had been ordered by Government, and many thought that its pub-
lication ousrht not to have been so loner deferred. But neither the
