696 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
country nor science lost anything by the delay ; for the volume was
not a mere summary of the earlier reports of the survey, but a new
book containing all the earliest facts concerning the geology of the
country. The work is too well known to require any comment here,
but it may be stated that, although published nearly twenty years ago,
it remains to-day the most valuable book of reference on the geology
and mineralogy of the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec." In 1864
Sir "William went to England to attend to the final work on the large
geological map of Canada and the neighboring States, which was to
accompany his " Geology." He attended the meeting of the British
Association in September, and read papers on the fossils of the Lauren-
tian rocks — Eozoon Ganadense — which he and Drs. Hunt and Dawson
had been mainly instrumental in bringing to notice. The significance
of this discovery may be indicated by a sentence from the presidential
address of Sir Charles Lyell for that year : " We have every reason to
suppose that the rocks in which these animal remains are included are
of as old a date as any of the formations named azoic in Europe, if not
older, so that they preceded in date rocks once supposed to have been
formed before any organic beings had been created."
At the Paris Exhibition of 1867, the geology of Canada was well
represented under charge of Dr. Hunt. Sir AVilliam was promoted
by the Emperor of France to an officer of the Legion of Honor, and
a few months later the Council of the Royal Society awarded him
one of the two Royal Gold Medals of the year for his " geological
researches in Canada, and the construction of a geological map of that
colony."
In 1869 Sir "William, finding that his private work demanded all
his somewhat declining energies — he was then seventy-one years old —
resigned his position as director of the Canadian survey. He con-
tinued geological work, however, in Canada and adjoining parts of
New England for several seasons, his last investigations being made in
the Eastern Townships in the summer of 1874. In August he sailed
for England, intending to return in the spring, but during the winter,
while he was staying in "Wales with a sister, the disease which had
been gradually coming upon him grew rapidly more serious ; he rallied
somewhat in the spring, but never got really strong again, and died
June 22, 1875.
" Those who had the good fortune to know Sir William Logan "
(we quote from Professor Harrington's biography) "will remember
him not merely as an enthusiastic geologist, but as a frank, true, and
genial friend. Many a fellow-creature was cheered by his cheerfulness,
helped by his kindly advice and sympathy, or in the more substantial
way which ample private means rendered possible. In many respects
his was a solitary life. Unlike his great contemporaries, Murchison
and Lyell, he never enjoyed the sympathy and assistance of a wife.
His over-active mind, no doubt, needed to be drawn from the geologi-
