EDITOR'S TABLE.
701
to convert your monthly into a medium for
the settlement of doctors' differences. I
only wish to correct a misstatement of facts
concerning the condition of practitioners of
the homoeopathic school in the Province of
Ontario; in regard to which, the position
I have held on the Board of Examiners
and the Medical Council may justify me in
speaking with authority. The misstatement
is to the effect that " in Ontario, up to ten
years ago, homcpopaths were yearly regis-
tered by scores ; since then they have to
pass through the same courses and exami-
nations as the regular students, in all but
therapeutics and pharmacy. The conse-
quence is, that in ten years there have only
been two or three applications for examina-
tions as homoeopaths. Homoeopathy is now
dying a natural death."
1. Up to ten years ago, homoeopaths
were not " registered " (licensed, he means,
for there was then no registering) by scores.
Half a score a year was considered a large
number. The old law required a longer
course of study from homreopathic than al-
lopathic students ; and much longer than
was necessary for graduation in a United
States college. As a consequence, fully
five sixths of our students settled across the
line.
2. In the ten years following, under the
new law, instead of only two or three homoe-
opaths licensed for the whole period, there
have been applicants every year — some as
homoeopaths, while others have passed the
allopathic examinations. And, though the
number of applicants may be less now than
formerly, the diminution applies to students
of all schools — the result of our extended
course of study and rigid examinations.
The proportion of allopathic and homoeo-
pathic applicants remains about the same.
3. The way "homoeopathy is dying" in
Ontario is illustrated by the fact that the
President of the Medical Council, the ez-ojfi-
cio head of the medical profession, is this
year an avowed homoeopathist, and a gradu-
ate of a homoeopathic college. And he has
been elected to that position by a two-thirds
vote of a body in which allopathic physi-
cians have a majority of five to one.
As nearly all the statements regarding
homoeopathy in the article referred to have
as much foundation in fact as those I have
taken the liberty of correcting, it is evident
that your contributor's assertions will need
more than a single grain of salt to render
them acceptable. Misstatements of facts
are always made either in ignorance or in
malice. Your contributor probably knows
better than I the cause of those that have
called forth my corrections.
Cl. T. Campbell.
London, Ontaeio, June 25, 18S3.
"OUR MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE LAWS.'
Messrs. Editors:
Gordon A. Stewart, writing on " Our
Marriage and Divorce Laws " in the June
number of the " Monthly," in speaking of
the causes for which divorces may be granted
in different States, uses this language : . . .
" In Connecticut, Indiana, Illinois, Xonh
Carolina, and Maine, there is any cause that
a discontented and dishonest party may al-
lege, or that a judge in his discretion, influ-
enced by sympathy or corrupt motives, may
approve."
As applied to Indiana this statement is
wholly without foundation. In this State
the causes for divorce are clearly defined by
statute. No one is entitled to a divorce
who can not show the existence of some
one or more of the statutory grounds.
No discretion is vested in the judge,
further than that of saying when the evi-
dence is sufficient to prove the existence of
the cause for which a divorce is asked. At
one time Indiana had such a statute, but it
was repealed many years ago. Mr. Stewart
having thus (inadvertently, I presume) li-
beled our State, should make the ^^ amende
honorable'''' through the columns of the
" Monthly," and will doubtless take pleas-
ure in doing so when his attention is called
to the matter. R. W. McBrlde.
"Watekloo, Indiana, June 20, 1SS3.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
THE DEAD-LANGUAGE SUPERSTITION.
THE celebrated defense of classical
studies in college education deliv-
ered at the University" of St. Andrew's,
some fifteen years ago, by John Stuart
Mill, produced a very powerful eflfect
upon the public raind, aud was thought
by many to end all discussion upon the
question. Mr. Mill had a great repu-
tation, which was at that time at its
full height. He was a man of extensive
erudition, and fine mental accomplish-
ments, and was, moreover, a radical re-
former, and ranked high as a representa-
tive of modern ideas. Not being him-
self a university man, and standing as
a leading liberal, it was naturally sup-
posed that he would take the modern
