EDITOR'S TABLE.
703
ideal university was, therefore, but a
cloud-land romance. Its course of stud-
ies, patterned on his own comprehen-
sive erudition, was little else than an
elaborate recipe for making John Stu-
art Mills. He forgot that, whatever may
be a man's native intellectual power,
universality must be the eternal equiva-
lent of superficiality, and he was him-
self a striking illustration of this forgot-
ten truth. His acquaintance with sci-
ence was so superficial that he was
compelled to seek the aid of others in
getting even the scientific illustrations
needful for the exposition of his great
work on logic. We do not go too far
in saying that he lost his hold upon the
age as a philosophic thinker by his
want of command of the great scientific
results of modern inquiry. He had been
so long and so thoroughly steeped in
the spirit of antiquity that he was dis-
qualified for appreciating the grand im-
port of modern ideas. He was a power-
ful student of human affairs, but from
the antiquated point of view. He was
in the Golden-Age, Paradise-Lost dis-
pensation of thouglit in which the no-
tions of the early perfection of mankind
and the superiority of the ancients were
contrasted with the degeneracy of the
moderns, and so completely was his in-
tellect possessed and perverted by this
view, that he was disabled from appre-
ciating the immense and epoch-making
influence of the modern doctrine of evo-
lution.
Yet palpable as were its exaggera-
tions, and preposterous as were its es-
timates of the relative importance of
different kinds of knowledge, the St.
AndreAv's address had an extensive and
a very injurious, influence. It was a
godsend for the declining classical cause,
for, although Mr. Mill condemned un-
sparingly the existing teaching of clas-
sics, its partisans cared nothing for
that, so long as he conceded the pre-
dominance of classical claims. So his
authority became a new bulwark for
the defense of established abuses. It
strengthened the hands of educational
obstructives, and the specious argu-
ments offered for the exaltation of an-
cient learning re-enforced all its arro-
gant and exclusive pretensions. The
commendations of science went for
nothing, as the magnitude of the classi-
cal claims left no room for them. Mr.
Mill labored to extend the already ex-
cessive influence of dead-language stud-
ies in the colleges, and the power of
his name was thus effectually arrayed
against the rising demands of modern
knowledge.
We have recalled this memorable
discourse of Mr. MiU at the present
time, because it is a landmark in the re-
cent history of the controversy, and be-
cause since its publication the subject
of dead languages in the colleges has
had no such vigorous shake-up as has
been given to it by Mr. Charles Francis
Adams, Jr., in his telling address deliv-
ered before the Harvard chapter of the
fraternity of the Phi Beta Kappa on June
28th. Mr. Adams is, of course, on the
side of modern studies as against the
classics. Into the argument as presented
by Mr. Mill he does not enter, nor does
he deny the transcendent benefits which
some allege they have derived from the
study of dead languages. But, not con-
cerned with its ideals, he deals with tlie
current classical education as a famUiar
fact, and tests it by its actual fruits.
His point of view is that of common,
well-to-do people, who demand the ad-
vantages of a higher education, but
whose time of study is limited, and who
must pass from the college to the labors
and struggles of e very-day life. Appeal-
ing to experience, to hard practical re-
sults, he findshimself compelled to con-
demn the system as a failure, a defeat
of the true and highest purposes of edu-
cation, an outrageous wrong to youth,
and in its stubborn persistence against
all the dictates of common sense a scan-
dal to the intelligence of the age. Mr.
Adams, moreover, proves his case. "We
