704
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
venture to assert that no candid person
can read this production, in connection
with that of ilill, without recognizing
that, to all the intents and purposes of
the discussion, the American student of
railroads has given a crushing answer
to the Enghsh philosopher.
We are first of all glad to recognize
that Mr. Adams has dealt with the sub-
ject with the freedom of entire fear-
lessness, and has set a much-needed ex-
ample, lie has not minced matters,
but has boldly and bluntly said what a
great many others think but hesitate to
express. There is a good deal more in-
tense conviction upon this matter than
gets publicly uttered. Most men who
have invested in classical education,
and find tliat tliey have been sold, are
anything but eager to acknowledge it.
Having been cheated, they prefer to
keep quiet about it. But Mr. Adams
told the authorities of Harvard College
to their faces that he had been vic-
timized by their policy, and was there
to arraign it on that very intelligible
ground. In most explicit terms he char-
acterized the worthlessness of the fun-
damental studies of tliat school, and
which are the fundamental studies of
most other colleges. But little further
progress is to be made in the way of
plain speaking when the staple of col-
lege study is openly denounced in the
halls consecrated to it, and in the con-
gregated presence of all parties to it,
not only as a superstition, but as a
superstition of the lowest and grossest
sort. Greek and Latin, as pursued in
our higher institutions, he pronounced
to be nothing less or other than a " col-
lege fetich." It is among the native
African negroes that fetichism is in
most eminent vogue. A fetich is some
object, no matter what — a tree, a moun-
tain, a beast, a bit of wood, a lion's
tail, an old bone — which the besotted
native adores as possessed of religious
potency, and to which he ascribes mar-
velous or magical power. A " college
fetich " is, therefore, a study which is
looked upon with a kind of stupid ven-
eration, as capable of exerting myste-
rious and wonderful influences upon
the minds of those devoted to it. The
dead-language fetich is a matter of blind
adoration. It is of but little use to ar-
gue against it— of but little use to rea-
son with the fetichistic state of mind —
for the peculiarity of any inveterate
superstition is that it may be riddled
with logic through and through, and its
absurdity demonstrated over and over,
without impairing in the slightest de-
gree the mystical faith in its efficacy.
Mr. Adams, therefore, confined himself
mainly to an exposure of the results of
the dead-language superstition, as he
knew it and had suffered by it, in the
college which gave him his education.
His point of view was thus indicated :
" To-day, whether I want to or not, I
must speak from individual experience.
Indeed, I have no other ground on
which to stand. I am not a scholar ; I
am not an educator; I am not a phi-
losopher ; but I submit that, in educa-
tional matters, individual practical ex-
perience is entitled to some weight.
Not one man in ten thousand can con-
tribute anything to this discussion in
the way of more profound views or
deeper insight. Yet any concrete ac-
tual experience, if it be only simply
and directly told, may prove a contri-
bution of value, and that contribution
we all can bring. An average college
graduate, I am here to subject the col-
lege theories to the practical test of an
experience in the tussle of life." Mr.
Adams then describes how he entered
the Latin School and learned two gram-
mars by heart, and spent five years in
mastering " the other rudiments of
what we are pleased to call a liberal
education," and then went through
Harvard College, devoting himself in-
dustriously to all the regulation studies
of which Latin and Greek were funda-
mental. Entering upon active life with
his college preparation, he took hold of
one of the large problems which has
