48 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
For a long time the only chemical laboratories known were the
pharmacies, and of course all chemical work was then done by the
pharmacists. If any one desired a knowledge of chemistry, his only
way to acquire it was to enter a pharmacy, and this whether he desired
to practice the art or not. It was not until between the twentieth and
thirtieth year of the present century that there existed any laboratory
in which a student could acquire a special knowledge of chemistry.
In another way we see the intimate connection which but a short
time ago existed between chemistry and pharmacy. The principal
chemical journal of the world, which was stai-ted in the year 1832 by
Liebig, was called during a period of forty years the "Annals of
Chemistry and Pharmacy," and only about ten years ago was its name
changed to the " Annals of Chemistry " ; and many other publications
might be mentioned whose titles give clear indications of the close re-
lationship existing between the two subjects.
The fact is, the interests of chemistry and pharmacy were identical
during the period to which I have referred. What helped the one
helped the other. But, beginning as a partial offsjDring of pharmacy,
chemistry has attained to a position of great importance in the world,
and has become gradually the foundation of more than one occupation.
To-day not only pharmacists, but those of many other professions, have
to look to chemistry for that knowledge of substances and of kinds of
action which is necessary for their success. An extended examination
of the subject would show us that pharmacy played a very important
part in the founding, particularly of that field of chemistry which is
usually designated by the name " organic chemistry " — a field in which
many of the brilliant modern victories of chemists have been achieved.
Without the fundamental work of pharmacists in extracting from
plants their valuable constituents, organic chemistry would to-day be in
its infancy, instead of being what it is — a giant of mighty strength, ex-
erting a controlling influence upon a number of important occupations,
including pharmacy. But what this subject is to-day is only a promise
of what it is to be when the results, which we now see plainly fore-
shadowed, shall have been accomplished. I think it is clear, then,
that Chemistry has much to thank Pharmacy for; but what has Chem-
istry done toward paying the debt she owes ? Much, very much,
directly and indirectly. It is impossible to enter into details this
evening, I can only refer to a few features which seem to me worthy
of special notice.
The accurate scientific study of chemical substances, whether these
are of use to pharmacy or not, has led to the introduction of more
accurate methods in pharmacy. The extraction and preparation of
medicinal compounds were at first very crude and simple operations.
These were gradually improved upon, of course, as time passed on,
but they were only perfected when the science of chemistry began to
exert its influence. The point to be particularly observed here is this,
