EDITOR'S TABLE.
707
of those preparatory schools is to get the boya
through their examinations, not as a means,
but as an end. They are therefore all organ-
ized on one plan. To that plan there is no
exception; nor practically can there be any
exception. The requirements for admission
arc such that the labor of preparation occu-
pies fully the boy's study-hours. lie is not
overworked, perhaps, but when his tasks are
done he has no more leisure than is good for
play ; and you can not take a healthy boy
the moment he leaves school and set him
down before tutors in German and French.
If you do, he will soon cease to be a healthy
boy ; and he will not learn German or French.
Over -education is a crime against youth.
But Harvard College says, " We require
such and such things for admission to our
course." First and most emphasized among
them are Latin and Greek. The academies
accordingly teach Latin and Greek ; and they
teach it in the way to secure admission to the
college. Hence, because of this action of the
college, the schools do not exist in this coun-
try in which my children can learn what my
experience tells me it is all-essential tliey
should know. They can not both be fitted
for college and taught the modern languages.
And, when I say " tauglit the modem lan-
guages," 1 mean taught them in the world's
sense of the word, and not in the college sense
of it, as practiced both in my time and now.
And, here let me not be misunderstood, and
confronted with examination papers. I am
talking of really knowing something. I do
not want my children to get a smattering
knowledge of French and of German, such a
knowledge as was and now is given to boys
of Latin and Greek ; but I do want them to
be taught to write and to speak those lan-
guages, as well as to read them — in a word,
60 to master them that they will thereafter
be tools always ready to the hand. This
requires labor. It is a thing which can not
be picked up by the wayside, except in the
countries where the languages are spoken.
If academics in America are to instruct in
this way, they must devote themselves to it.
But the college requires all that they can well
undertake to do. The college absolutely in-
sists on Latin and Greek. . . .
But I now come to what in plain lan-
guage I can not but call the educational cant
of this subject. I am told that I ignore the
severe intellectual training I got in learning
the Greek grammar, and in subsequently ap-
plying its rules ; that my memory then re-
ceived an education which, turned since to
other matters, has proved invaluable to me ;
that accumulated experience shows that this
training can be got equally well in no other
way ; that, beyond all this, even my slight
contact with the Greek masterpieces has left
with me a subtile but unmistakable residu-
um, impalpable perhaps, but still there, and
very precious ; that, in a word, I am what is
called an educated man, which, but for my
early contact with Greek, I would not be.
It was Dr. Johnson, I believe, who once
said, " Let us free our minds from cant," and
all this, with not undue bluntness be it said,
is unadulterated nonsense. The fact that it
has been and will yet be a thousand times re-
peated can not make it anything else. In
the first place, I very confidently submit,
there is no more mental training in learning
the Greek grammar by heart than in learning
by heart any other equally difficult and, to a
boy, unintelligible book. As a mere work of
memorizing, Kant's " Critique of Pure Eea-
son" would be at least as good. In the ne.xt
place, unintelligent memorizing Ls at best a
most questionable educational method. For
one, I utterly disbelieve in it. It never did
me anything but harm ; and learning by
heart the Greek grammar did me harm — a
great deal of harm. While I was doing it,
the observing and reflective powers lay dor-
mant ; indeed, they were systematically sup-
pressed. Their exercise was resented as a
sort of impertinence. We boys stood up and
repeated long rules, and yet longer lists of
exceptions to them, and it was drilled into us
that we were not there to reason, but to rattle
oflf something written on the blackboard of
our minds. The faculties we had in common
with the raven were thus cultivated at the ex-
pense of that apprehension and reason which,
Shakespeare tells us, make man like the an-
gels and God. I infer this memory-culture
is yet in vogue, for only yesterday, as I sat at
the commencement-table with one of the
younger and more active of the professors of
the college, he told me that he had no diffi-
culty with his students in making them com-
mit to memory ; they were well trained in
that. But when he called on them to observe
and infer, then his troubles began. They
had never been led in such a path. It was
the old, old story — a lamentation and an
ancient tale of wrong. There are very few
of us who were educated a generation ago
who can not now stand up and glibly recite
long extracts from the Greek grammar ; sorry
am I to say it, but these extracts are with
most of us all we have left pertaining to that
language. But, as not many of us followed
the stage as a calling, this power of rapidly
learning a part has proved but of question-
able value. It is true, the habit of correct
