LITERARY NOTICES.
and of similar passages in other writings,
while the remaining chapter takes up the
difference between natural morality and the
religious systems of ethics. The author's
estimate of Christianity is as follows : " The
Eastern world was fortunate in possessing
many great moral and religious teachers ;
and it was out of their doctrines, ever in-
creasing in perfection as time went on, that
was gradually and naturally built up the
most complete and beautiful religion of all.
Hence (we may say) it was vecessary that,
in the process of evolution, this develop-
ment should be reached, and that Christi-
anity should come: yet this is no reason
why we need hesitate to add — but blessed
be he through whom it came." Moreover,
he considers that the evidence brought for-
ward tends to show " that much of Christ's
doctrine was necessarily of only temporary
and local value ; but that the Church has
greatly hindered the progress of knowledge
and scientific morality by insisting that her
founder's teaching is final on all points,"
and "that science is now proving the ori-
gin and nature of man to be entirely differ-
ent to those assumed by religious teachers,
and thereby contradicting much that is es-
sential to their doctrines."
Eve's Daughters; or, Common Sense for
Maid, Wife, and Mother. By Marion
IIarlaxd. New York : John R. Ander-
son and Henry S. Allen. Pp. 454. §2.
A BOOK of sound principles on the in-
struction and training of gii-ls and women
with reference to the principal function of
their life. That it has met a large demand
and approval by the public is attested by
the fact that it is now in its twentieth
thousand. The subject of the book is the
training and treatment of woman, in re-
spect chiefly to her physical well-being and
moral culture, in every age and condition of
life — as an infant, as a girl at pla}', as a
school-girl, "young lady," wife, and mother.
The infant is commended to the mother's per-
sonal nursing and care, and to an enlightened
regime, in order to give which the mother
must seek the necessary knowledge. For the
girl are claimed the freedom of action that
will secure to her the best development, and
the instruction and the sincerity of instruc-
tion that will best help her to make herself
a true and sound woman. As the school-life
period approaches, and the critical period
of the woman's life with it, more attention
is required to secure a proper development
of the physical and mental functions than
even in infancy, and the subject receives
a correspondingly greater particularity of
treatment. The calling of the woman to be
a housekeeper and the trainer of a new fam-
ily and the bearing of her education to
those ends are given their proper promi-
nence. We have also chapters on what
women who have grown up to be young
ladies should do for their mothers, on dress,
on the cure of gossip, on the period of mar-
riage and the duties of the expectant moth-
er. The book is a woman's book on a
woman's subject, in which the plainest
truths are presented in the most forcible
manner, yet with the most fully refined
delicacy ; and it is a book that will help
women, and in helping them will help the
human race.
Legal Provisions respecting the Exam-
ination AND Licensing of Teachers.
Washinston: Government Printing-Of-
fice. Pp. 46.
This pamphlet, published by the Bureau
of Education as one of its "Circulars of
Information," gives summaries of the rules
prevailing in the several States for ascer-
taining the qualifications of teachers pre-
paratory to giving them licenses. While
the Commissioner of Education has no de-
sire to call undue attention-to examinations,
and deprecates the cramming and the dan-
ger of making them an end in education
which it is likely to induce, he hopes to se-
cure a good purpose by showing how it has
seemed best to the people of the different
States to determine whether the teacher has
the qualifications required ; for which no
better general way seems to have been
found than some system of examination.
Bacteria and the Germ Theory of Dis-
ease. By Dr. H. Gradle, Professor of
Physiology, Chicago Medical College.
Chicago:" W. T. Keener. Pp. 216.
Price, $2.
Since this book consists of medical lec-
tures, the treatment of the subject is natu-
rally technical rather than popular. It is a
presentation of the results so far attained
in researches as to the nature of germs, and
their action as agents of disease.
