718
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
alence of scarlet fever is for New York en-
tirely opposed to that for London. Thus,
the lowest death-rate from this disease
happens in New York between the end of
July and early in October, when the mor-
tality from it in London is greatest. Again,
the curve of lowest mortality in London falls
in February, March, and April, reaching its
lowest point when the mortality is greatest
in New York. " We are therefore," Dr.
Tripe remarks, " driven to the conclusion
either that the same meteorological changes
which appear to increase the disease in
London decrease it in New York, or, that
the mortality per cent of attack is greater
at one period of the year than at another.
Similar opposing curves arc noticeable as
regards whooping-cough. These are by no
means satisfactory results to have arrived
at after so much labor. On the other hand,
the curves of mortality from small-pox,
measles, diphtheria, typhoid fever, diarrhoea,
phthisis, bronchitis, pneumonia, heart-dis-
ease, and apoplexy closely correspond in
both these great cities."
Saggestions aTiout Bathing.— When and
under what conditions a bath will be most
beneficial is an important question. The
important point is to secure a speedy and
healthful reaction, or return of the blood to
the surface, and all the conditions should
be arranged with reference to that end.
Obviously, says the " Lancet," it is not right
to dare the dangers of a chill either when
undressing or by immersion in the cold
water. In most cases a sweating surface
indicates some measure of exhaustion al-
ready set in ; and it is unwise to bathe when
copious perspiration has continued for an
hour or more, unless the heat of the weather
be excessive or the sweating has been in-
duced by loading with clothes rather than
by exertion. When much perspiration has
been produced by muscular exercise, it is
unsafe to bathe, because the body is so fa-
tigued and exhausted that the reaction can
not be insured, and the effect may be to
congest the internal organs, and notably the
nerve-centers. The last gives cramp. If
the weather be chilly, or there be a cold
wind, so that the body may be rapidly cooled
at the surface while undressing, it is not
safe to bathe. Under such conditions, the
further chill of immersion in cold water will
take place at the precise moment at which
the reaction consequent upon the chill of
exposure by undressing ought to take place,
and this second chill will not only delay or
altogether prevent the reaction, but will
convert the bath from a mere stimulant to
a depressant, ending in the abstraction of a
large amount of animal heat and congestion
of the internal organs and nerve - centers.
The aim must be to avoid two chills, and to
make sure that the body is in such a con-
dition as to secure a quick reaction on emerg-
ing from the water, without relying too
much on the possible effect of friction by
rubbing. The actual temperature of the
water does not affect the question so much
as its relative temperature in comparison
with that of the surrounding air. It ought
to be much lower than that of the air.
These maxims receive a striking re-enforce-
ment from the case of a young soldier who
a few days ago plunged into the river near
Manchester, England, after having heated
himself by rowing. He was immediately
taken with cramps, and was drowned.
When taken out, his body was found
" twisted," and the vessels of his head
showed every evidence of congestion. Quin-
tus Curtius relates that Alexander the
Great attempted a bath in the Cydnus on
a very hot day, when all sweating. " Hard-
ly had he entered, when his limbs became
suddenly stiff, the body pale, and vital heat
seemed by degrees to abandon him. His
officers received him almost expiring in
their arms, and carried him almost sense-
less to his tent.
Satisfying Religions Scrnples. — Dr. Fran-
cis Day, formerly inspector-general, stated,
in a recent lecture on the fisheries of India,
that while as Buddhists the Burmans pro-
fess a religious horror of taking the lives
of the lower animals, they are immoderate
ly fond of fish-diet, and pretend to console
their consciences, while indulging in it, that
the death of the fish must be laid to the
fishermen, and can not be charged against
them! The prospects of the fishermen in
the next life appear, however, to be most
dreadful, for the temples have pictures of
terrible and artfully contrived tortures to
which they will be condemned. The poon-
