MATTER LIVING AND NOT-LIVING. 731
such countless times, in such countless directions, within such count-
less chambers, passages, recesses, that no wonder the broadest and
loftiest intellect of our time, or of any time, stood baffled at the
threshold of the labyrinth until he had fashioned the clew of Evolution
to guide him through its windings ; but the step, though infinitely
multiplied, is one and the same, spanning ever the same fathomless
chasm, and the faculties which enable us to take it once render us
competent to repeat it indefinitely. We thread the maze by a devel-
oped use of the powers by which we enter it, treading always over,
but never into, the meshes of infinity. The real difficulty, as already
implied, is that our present knowledge and intellectual training do not
match the complexity of the higher phenomena, which, notwithstand-
ing their astounding complexity, differ from the lower only as a prob-
lem in the calculus differs from a sum in addition and subtraction.
Fundamentally, there is no difference in the phenomena, and no break :
all are interconnected by one unbroken chain of causation. As the
watch-maker is developed from primitive man, so is life developed
from primitive matter, and the gap between these is no more impas-
sable and no less than the gap between those, or, for that matter, than
between the simplest compound and its elements, or between the atoms
of the elements themselves. The interval in every case is essentially
identical. If it makes life mysterious, it makes mysterious every other
thread in the texture of things. The mystery is the same throughout ;
and so is the only explanation with which the wit of man can em-
broider the somber secret.
Dr. Beale has nothing more to say Avith which we need concern
ourselves. He is, as I have said, a physician of eminence, and, I may
add, a microscopic observer of approved accuracy ; but as a philosoph-
ical critic he is not a success. I have treated him with courtesy, out
of respect for the proprieties of serious discussion rather than for his
deserts. The tone of his paper is not candid or respectful ; its spirit
is derisive ; and the body of it is composed chiefly of a tirade, not
conspicuous for judgment or comprehension, against the decay of
modern thought and the dogmatism of modern scientists, among whom
he generously singles out Professor Huxley as a scape-goat, and, lay-
ing both hands on his laureled head, confesses over him, with much
unction but no fair words, all the iniquities of the children of light,
and halloos him, crowned with the shining burden, into a land not in-
habited by members of the Victoria Institute. But all this I pass by.
It is tempting, I confess, but space or the lack of it, if nothing better,
delivers me from the temptation. On the title-page of Dr. Beale's
pamphlet is inscribed : " The New Materialism ; Dictatorial Scientific
Utterances, and the Decline of Thought." Of this inscription the
first part might stand, fitly enough, for the title proper, and the last
part for the characteristics of the jjaper, were it not that its " dictato-
rial utterances " happen not to be " scientific," and that its " thought "
