HOMCEOPATHY AS A SCIENCE. 733
ism in total ruins dominated by the vital principle. What, then, is
disease — typhoid, pneumonia, scarlet fever ? No ; disease is the im-
pairment of the equalization of the vital force, and it finds expression
where the organism is weakest.
What is cure — to take physic for typhoid or scarlet fever ? No ;
to cure is to locate the center of the disturbance, the diseased nerve-
cell, and restore the equilibrium.
How do you do this ? In spite of its many ramifying influences,
the nerve-cell presei*ves, to the close and exact student, its individ-
uality, often veiled under the apparently familiar features of others,
but still recognizable by the dilEferentiating mind. It is this similar
of state and remedy which the homoeopathic physician, who knows
and applies the law, seeks in the patient and in the materia medica ;
when found, the means of restoring the equalization of the vital cur-
rent is found with it.
As there is but one nerve-center of a disease, so is there but one
remedy.
The system has always a tendency to resist, by reaction, the mor-
bific cause which disturbs it. The similar stimulates reaction. When
you put your hot hand into hot water, and take it out and wipe it dry, by
the law of reaction it becomes cool. So, if to the frost-bitten ear or
hand you apply snow or ice, by the law of reaction the frozen part
burns under its stimulus. The power of resistance, which is reaction,
is the strength of the constitution, or is the constitution itself. It is
this law of reaction under which homoeopathy works, by its similars
stimulating the additional resistance necessary to aid in nature's cure.
If you go out into excessive cold, and the power of resistance is
equal to the demand, you turn red ; if not, and this power is over-
whelmed, you turn white. And the same difference is markedly ob-
servable among those who take sea-baths. By the law of reaction they
vary in color from that of a boiled lobster to the livid hue of death,
graduated and shaded off by the loss of the power of resistance. All
cures are sought by homoeopathy under this law, and depend for their
success upon this power of resistance, and it is of vital importance
that this power be not diminished, for without it there can be no
cure. Outside of medicine this law of reaction in the system is recog-
nized as an accepted fact. It is the law of cure, and the study of this
law is a science, and that science is homoeopathy.
The reason why scarlet fever, measles, chicken-pox, and small-pox
do not, as a general rule, recur in the system is that, at the first attack,
the system has reacted so strongly against these diseases as to be
proof against a second attack. The reaction has so strengthened the
system to resist the particular form of morbific influence that it will
not readily yield to it again.
•' Homoeopathy is another form of quackery," says a writer in the
June number of " The Popular Science Monthly." It might be ob-
