736 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
create different symptoms or sufferings, it likewise requires doses of
equal quantity to create similar symptoms to those to which the sys-
tem is already so greatly predisposed.
The atomic dose will, however, bear a much closer and more severe
test than has been applied to it. It is an approved and well-known
fact that a person of iron will will battle long and successfully with a
disease which baffles the aid of the most skillful physician, and it is
said that his will sustains him. By that is not meant that he leans
upon his will as upon a staff, nor that the immaterial, the will, comes
in actual contact with the material, the disease ; but that the will,
acting through the brain, rouses up in the system material resistance
to the disease, and effects a cure or prolongs the fight. How much
brain would one have to eat in order to obtain a decillionth part of a
grain of the will-power which operated in the system in effecting a
cure or battling with the disease ? The will operating through the
brain moves one joint of the little finger, then two, then three, and so
on until it moves by one operation of the will the whole fourteen
joints of the five fingers, which act in unison at one motion. Yet it
is clear that each additional joint moved resulted from the impression
made upon a larger area of the nerve-centers in the brain. Assuming
for the sake of argument that the correct method of cure is to arouse
in the system a direct reaction against disease, and that this can only
be accomplished through the brain, it follows that the remedy, which
in fonn is best adapted to act upon the brain, is the best so far as
mere form is concerned ; and if the immaterial, the will, can produce
such positive physical results, the quantity of the medicine operating
upon the brain is not required by any law of physics (or physiology)
to be many times greater than the nerve-cell, which is the body to be
operated upon ; especially must this be true when the object sought
is not to overwhelm the nerve-center, but simply to stimulate it to
increased action.
Professor Calderwood, in his " Relations of Mind and Brain," says
of the nerve-cells in the brain : " These are so numerous as to baffle
calculation. From the number seen within a small section under the
microscope, it is reckoned that there must be many thousands of them
in the human brain." Of the nerve-fibers he says : " In the brain it-
self they are sometimes as minute as a twelve-thousandth part of an
inch," and that the smallest of the nerve-fibers in the eye are from
30^(^0 to go^Qo part of an inch in diameter. As an adaptation of
means to end, a decillionth part of a grain, broken up into many still
more minute particles, does not appear to be so much out of propor-
tion to the nerve-cell or to the ducts, the nerve-fibers, as the two, four,
six, or more grains given by the allopaths.
The stench contained in a few drops distilled by a skunk attains a
potential existence in the air for not less than five hundred feet in
every direction. Taking one thousand feet cubed as a minimum, we
