HOMCEOPATHY AS A SCIENCE. 739
disease, so is the constitution to the condition of the patient when the
disease shall have left it. Convalescence in homoeopathy commences
when the correct remedy begins to act. In allopathy, when the rem-
edy and disease have left the patient prostrate, then Nature takes the
matter in hand. It is a common error with the ignorant traducers of
homoeopathy that the higher the potencies or its remedies the weaker
they become, as one weakens wine by adding water. It is sufficient
answer to quote the following high authority, who discloses the true
purpose and effect :
" If it be conceded that the vital principle is identical with elec-
tricity, the action of dynamized medicaments becomes easy of compre-
hension ; for in these preparations we have material substances sub-
divided to a degree that enables them to penetrate the most delicate
tissues of the body." — (Dr. Currie's preface to Jahr's " Homoeopathic
Manual.")
The writer's assertion, that " homoeopathy, being a system utterly
void of any scientific foimdation, is now dying a natural death," re-
ceives, to say the least, doubtful support from the animated debate
which has been progressing so vigorously in the New York County
Medical Society of the regular school in reference to consultation with
homoeopaths, where the exclusionists accused the more liberal brothers
of having an itching palm for the fat fees which now find their way,
without chance of tax, to the pockets of the homoeopathic physicians,
while the argument by the liberal members is that as now homoeopathy
has progressed and its discijDles have a thorough medical education,
there is no longer any reason why they should be treated as quacks
and impostors. So far as noted, the alleged moribund condition of
homoeopathy had escaped their observation.
What shall be said of the pretensions to be enrolled with the
sciences of that school which has progressed from one stage of uni-
versal disease or cause and remedy to another — typhoid, malaria,
miasm germ, bleeding, calomel, morphine, quinine — by discarding
nearly all that its pioneers held most dear ; which, before it can
build, must tear down ; which retreats from the necessary labor of
that scientific investigation which by great diligence and skill elimi-
nates every remedy but one as useless or hurtful, to take refuge in
a nauseous mixture of several powerful drugs, administered upon the
hit or miss blunderbuss principle — those drugs which are neither
allopathic nor homoeopathic to the disease, doing more potent injury
than the one (which by hap-hazard has some relation) can do good,
as Sir John Forbes says, " the monstrous poly-pharmacy which has
always been the disgrace of our " (the allopathic) " art " ?
It may well be doubted whether homoeopathy will ever have en-
rolled under its banners the same number of practitioners as the regular
school. The nearer we approach to an exact science, the fewer are its
votaries. The conditions admit fewer. In it there are no formulated
