CHEMISTRY AXD PHARMACY. 53
to look forward to as brilliant a future for aniroal-tar as has been the
past and is the present of coal-tar. Both substances, offensive as they
■are, are necessarily prepared in large quantities. The coal-tar is a re-
sult of the manufacture of gas ; the animal-tar is produced in the
manufacture of bone-black or animal-charcoal, which is used to such
an enormous extent for the purification of sugar. Had it not been for
the untiring and unselfish labors of scores of scientific investigators,
■who worked for no other object than to increase knowledge for the
sake of knowledge, we would to-day be in ignorance of the beautiful
and valuable possibilities of these two unattractive substances.
I might multiply examples indefinitely, but the time at my disposal
is limited. I have endeavored to show, gentlemen, that while Pharmacy
did a great deal to build up the science of Chemistry, Chemistry in her
turn, when she reached maturity, began to pay back the debt she owed
and pay it back with interest. It is to the science of Chemistry that
Pharmacy must look for future advancement, and even the most obscure
and most unintelligible of the many chemical investigations which are
being carried on at present may eventually prove to be important
steps in some line of reasoning which will have the enriching of phar-
macy as its result. Nothing in science is too insignificant for notice.
We can not tell what the simplest observation may lead to, and it be-
hooves every one whose daily occupation brings him in contact with
chemical substances to be ever on the alert and, in true scientific spirit,
to follow up, independently of any direct practical result, the slightest
observations. Many of you, gentlemen, wUl have the opportunity to
add materially to human knowledge. You will have laboratories at
your disposal, and you have been well instructed in chemistry. If you
have the desire, you may do much to help your profession. Your
chances of success will be better, if you keep yourselves interested in
the scientific as well as in the purely practical side of your calling.
There is enough work to be done. In certain directions chemistry has
only just begun to advance, and there are vast regions still entirely
unexplored. Many an arctic sea of chemistry, with its fascinating
north pole, awaits the first expedition. An eminent mathematician
once said that a new problem in mathematics might easily be furnished
for every man, woman, and child in this vast country, and there would
then be plenty left for foreigners. A similar remark might be made
concerning chemistry. As I have, then, attempted to show that you
must look to science for the advance of your calling, I desire above all
to leave upon your minds the impression that each of you, if you will,
can do something for the common cause. If, in after-years, it shall
be my privilege to hear that one among you has really been led to
enrich the domains of science, I shall look back upon my part in this
evening's proceedings with feelings of great satisfaction.
