74+
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
maining germ redia? continue to grow. The sporocysts also multiply-
by simple division, thus causing still greater increase in the number
of parasites in the snail. A young redia is shown in Fig. 8, with the
contents forming into the third generation of the liver-fluke. A full-
grown redia is seen in Fig. 9, much
magnified. Some of the germs of
the cercarla, as they are termed,
may be seen within the redia. Each
of these germs develops into a tad-
pole-like animal, with a slender
tail. A redia may produce a score
of the cercaria?, which escape from
the parent through a special open-
ing and then wriggle their way
out of the snail. The free-swim-
ming life of the " tadpole " does
not last long, and after coming to
rest it draws its body into a small
sphere, and exudes a gummy sub-
stance, which protects it from in-
jury. These encysted cercarice are
destined to find entrance to the
liver of the sheep and then de-
velop into the full-grown fluke.
Fig. 10 shows a free cercaria as
seen swimming in water, and in
Fig. 11 is seen a portion of grass
upon AUiich three cysts are fast-
ened. The cysts remain attached
to the herbage of the pasture, and
are swallowed by the sheej) in
feeding upon the ground. If the
cysts are not picked tip by the
sheep within a few weeks, the
young flukes which they contain will perish. It has been determined
that two hundred or more cercarise may descend from a single fluke-
egg, and, if the redise give rise to a generation of daughter-redise, a
single egg may produce more than a thousand cercaria?. " Not only
does the race of the liver-fluke multiply and increase abundantly in the
sheep by producing myriads of eggs, but there is a further and great
increase of the forms within the snail. If only the greatest degree of
ordinary increase were reached, a single fluke might give rise to more
than a hundred million descendants in the next generation of liver-
flukes proper inhabiting the sheep. But, fortunately for farmers, the
chances are enormously against any such disastrous increase."
Professor Thomas has determined that at least six weeks elapse.
Fig. 8.
Fig. 9.
