746 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
tbo snails after nursing the young flukes through three generations
distribute the tadpole cercaria?, which convey the infection back to
the sheep, and it there inhabits the liver and causes the disease.
The Prevextion of the Rot. — Now that the life-history of the
fluke is known, it is not difficult to comprehend the conditions neces-
sary for its existence. There must be : (1) Fluke-eggs on the ground ;
(2) wet ground or water during warm weather — (3) the BntxW Lim-
nccus truncatulus (?) ; and (4) sheep allowed to feed upon the infested
ground.
Under the first condition it may be said that wherever fluked sheep
are kept we shall have fluke-eggs. In some districts flukes are always
to be found, and where the conditions are the most favorable a sudden
outbreak may be expected. The disease sometimes appears in quar-
ters where it was previously unknown, and may have been introduced
in manure containing fluke-eggs, or adhering to the feet of cattle, dogs,
or men. The eggs and young flukes (embryos) may be conveyed by
running streams, floods, etc. Other animals than sheep are infested
with the parasite, and rabbits and hares may be the means of intro-
ducing the plague. The production of the fluke-eggs may be pre-
vented by killing the sheep so soon as they are found suffering from
the " rot." If there is a suspicion that a flock is attacked, one of the
members exhibiting the strongest signs may be killed and its liver ex-
amined. If rotted sheep are kej^t, they should be on dry ground,
where the fluke-eggs can not fall on wet land, or be swept into brooks
by the descending rains. The manure of infested sheep should not be
placed on wet land, and the livers of rotted sheep ought to be de-
stroyed or deeply buried.
The remedy for the second condition is a simple one, but not always
easy of application. Wet land should be thoroughly drained, and,
besides preventing the rot, it will greatly improve the pasturage.
AVhen draining can not be done, lime or salt may be scattered over
the surface. These substances will destroy the embryos, the more
developed encysted form of the fluke, and the snails which serve as
hosts. The salt or lime should be applied in early summer, when the
young flukes are present in the greatest numbers.
There seems to be only one snail in England which is host to the
young flukes, and the accounts of Professor Thomas in exposing other
species of Limnoeus to the embryos of the fluke are most interesting.
The Liinnceiis truncatulus (Fig. 5) is said not to exist in the United
States, though several other kinds of snails belonging to the same
large genus are found here. It is probable that with us some other
species than Hmnmus truncatulus serves as the host of the intermedi-
ate forms of our liver-flukes. Draining the wet land will reduce the
number of snails ; and dressings of lime or salt, as above mentioned,
also destroy them. The lime should be scattered especially on or
near marshy places and along ditches. If a pasture has been flooded,
