CYCLONES AND TORNADOES. 749
wind in advance of it will be easterly, blowing off an ai'ea of high
barometer into the low ; and the barometer will continue to fall.
Toward the north of the storm, the wind will be north ; and to the
south of it the w^ind will blow from the south, frequently causing
what are known on the Western plains as "sand-storms"; while, if
the storm occurs during the winter season, the wind and snow in the
northern portion is called a "blizzard." In the rear of the storm the
wind will be westerly, shifting to northwest, frequently blowing a
gale ; the barometer will rise and the temperature will fall, sometimes
rapidly, and clearing weather will follow.
Thus it will be observed that the true axis is the " storm-center,"
and that the storm revolves on this axis as it moves forward in an
easterly, northeasterly, or southeasterly dii-ection. This is the true
cyclone. It may be only a few hundred miles in diameter, or its in-
fluence may be felt from British America to the Gulf of Mexico. It
may be accompanied by w^hat are known as local showers or storms ;
or the rains may be general, and of several days' duration. The great-
est precipitation is frequently in advance of the storm-center, and may
be either rain or snow, depending upon the season of the year and
the temperature. During the spring and summer months the area of
low pressure is usually accompanied by precipitation in the form of
local showers, or thunder-storms, of more or less severity, in which
case the strongest air-currents move with the local storm-cloud, and
are known as simply high winds, sometimes approaching the severity
of a hui-ricane, but seldom extending over any considerable area of
territory.
The true cyclone usually travels from the Rocky Mountains to the
Atlantic coast, in nearly a straight line. Sometimes the distance is
traversed in four days and nights, exceeding the speed of a railway
express-train ; but frequently the progress is slow, and the time re-
quired much longer, depending largely upon the atmospheric condi-
tions met with in the vicinity of the Great Lakes.
Frequently, while the wind may be blowing from the southeast or
northeast, or between these points, the storm is approaching from an
opposite direction, and pushes out its cloudy streamers, or " feelers,"
hundreds of miles in advance. There is, then, no such thing as a
" northeast storm," as far as the interior of this continent is concerned.
TOENADOES.
The origin and movement of continental cyclones being under-
stood, we naturally turn, next, to the investigation of tornadoes.
These seem to occur most frequently in the Western States, and are
usually confined to the territory between latitude 35째 and 45째 north,
and longitude 10째 and 25째 west. They are purely local in effect, al-
though their cause may be remote ; always depend upon and fre-
quently accompany the meteorological conditions developed during the
