752 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Credible persons testify to having seen a horse carried over the
roof of a barn, and again let down, without receiving serious injury.
A child's necklace, with locket attached, was picked up in the village
of A , having been carried by the storra from W , eight miles
distant ! Mr. and Mrs. T , living in L , were both killed, and
their house destroyed by the tornado. A vest belonging to Mr. T ,
containing valuable papers and a sum of money, was found in the town
of P , twenty miles away, and restored to the relatives of the de-
ceased owner !
Wagons, agricultural implements, and household furniture, will be
carried a long distance and broken into fragments by the tornado,
while delicate mirrors and sets of glass-ware may be spared. The
giants of the forest will be torn to splinters, while the modest flowers
beneath them are left blooming as sweetly as if nothing had occurred !
The belief has obtained to some extent that tornadoes follow sub-
terranean veins of water. That they are repeated in certain localities,
have a fondness for belts of timber and small water-courses — provided
they run in the right direction — there can be no doubt. They also
travel over a portion of country previously moistened by rain. This
rule has but few exceptions.
The increasing frequency and severity of these visitations (not-
withstanding what may be said to the contrary) compel the writer to
believe that radical changes are taking place in our atmosphere and
climate ; that the construction of great railroad-belts across the conti-
nent and the erection of a vast network of telegraph and telephone
wires exert an influence upon the atmosphere, by disturbing the equi-
librium of electric forces. The fact that tornadoes do not closely
follow railroad and telegraph lines is not sufficient to disprove the
soundness of this theory ; and, whether true or false, the fact of the
climatic change remains, and opens a vast field for further exj^loration
by the electrician and the meteorologist.
Long-range predictions and weather forecasts may be safely in-
dulged in, if made in a general way ; but, when confined to fixed dates
and certain localities, they have usually proved a hollow mockery,
and brought ridicule upon the authors.
The United States Signal Service has proved to be quite reliable in
its observations and predictions of approaching storms, and should re-
ceive due credit for its service ]-endered in protection of life and prop-
erty. The benefits might be still further extended by a system of
railway-express signals, operated in connection with it and by the
direction of the Government observers at the different stations. Un-
fortunately, however, the warnings of this Service can not reach all
concerned in time to be of value, nor can it protect in the hour of
danger : as witness the tornado which visited the States of Texas,
Mississippi, and Louisiana, on the 22d of April, in the present year, by
which over one hundred persons lost their lives ; also those which
