HOW THE EARTH WAS PEOPLED. 753
swept over a portion of the States of Missouri, Illinois, and Wisconsin,
on the memorable evening of May 18, 1883. By this storm, sixty-five
persons were killed and two hundred wounded in the State of Illinois
alone ; and yet the percentage of lives lost was small compared with
the immense value of property destroyed.
As the matter now stands, the tornado seems to remain a problem
that baffles science — a veritable despot in the economy of nature. The
puny arm of man is powerless against it ; no structure he can rear will
successfully resist it, coming off unscathed in the conflict ; and no de-
vice his mind can plan will turn it aside from its chosen course. Ex-
perience has amply demonstrated that the safest place in the hour of
such danger is found in some subterranean retreat.
HOW THE EARTH WAS PEOPLED.
By M. le Marquis G. Db SAPORTA.
11.
IT follows from the exposition given in our former article that man,
issuing from a "mother-region" still undetermined, but which a
number of considerations indicate to have been in the North, has radi-
ated in several directions ; that his migrations have been constantly
from north to south ; and that they have given i-ise to races the more
ancient of which went farthest and were the most inferior. The supe-
rior races were those which, migrating later and becoming localized in
peculiarly favorable climatic conditions, have risen gradually to what
we call civilization.
M. de Mortillet has occupied himself with this progress, and, per-
suaded that existing mankind is only a resultant, and the last term of
a series of successive transformations, distinguishes between several
men, as tertiary man, quaternary man, existing man. The man of the
ancient quaternary, the Neanderthal, the Denise, and the Canstadt
man, appear to him so different from the historical type, that not only
does he separate them from it, but he creates for the times anterior to
the quaternary a human or pseudo-human category of a particular
order. There were, in his view, " precursors of man," to which he
applies the significant name of anthropopithecus, or " man-monkey,"
because he believes they preceded man in the scale of beings, and con-
stituted an intermediate type between the living anthropomorphic apes
and man. We should then have to deal with a creature high enough
above the gorilla and the chimpanzee to know how to cut flints and
use fire, low enough not to be able to rise above that industrial grade
and become a real man ; or with a race standing to the Bushman and
Tasmanian as they seem to stand to us. Theology does not abso
VOL. xxni. — 48
