54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
POSITION AXD STROKE IX SWIMMING.
By EICIIAKD LAMB, C. E,
PERHAPS there has been no science — at least none of equal im-
portance — that has been less developed theoretically than swim-
ming. The essay of Franklin upon the subject, although an answer to
the inquiry of " how to swim," is merely an article with advice as to
when and how long to bathe, and the narration of anecdotes of his
experience in swimming. In the literature of the subject we fail to
find any practical directions that could assist a novice in learning to
swim ; for this reason we propose briefly to analyze one or two im-
portant points, which, if put into practice, will make it an easy matter
to acquire the art.
It has been the writer's experience, in teaching beginners, that the
great difficulty lies, not in the inability on the part of the scholars to
master the correct stroke, but in the fact that while using the correct
stroke, for a certain reason, they find it difficult to keep their heads
above water. Some of the scholars did not lack in determination or
bravery, and yet their efforts were fruitless. They would apply the
correct stroke with great force, and yet eventually their heads would
sink. Finally, the complaint of one of the scholars, to the effect that
the effort seemed to tire the neck more than any other part of the
body, led to a contemplation of the cause of the fact.
While investigating the facts in the case, it was observed that a
beginner throws himself upon the w^ater in a stiff and straight posi-
tion, not allowing the body or back to bend at all, but merely bending
the neck. He kicks his legs in a vertical direction, tending to raise
the back to the surface of the water, and thus places himself in a posi-
tion parallel to the line of the surface. It is easily seen that he must
bend his neck nearly perpendicular to this line of direction in order to
keep his head above water (see Fig. 1). We have merely to try this
Fig. 1.
position on land, to experience its difficulty and disagreeableness. The
muscles of the throat are greatly strained, while the air-tube is nearly
closed, causing difficult respiration.
It is not to be wondered at that the learner soon relaxes this un-
natural position of the head, and gives up the effort to keep his face
