HOW THE ANCIENT FORESTS BECAME COAL. 57
and sandstones, so as to show that there was nothing universal in the
phenomenon, and that it was liable to interruption by physical changes.
It is also easy to conceive that the formation of coal could not have
gone on unless the vegetation Avas adapted to the process, and the con-
ditions of the climate were suitable. The coal-plants could never have
grown and flourished as they did in the present climates of the North ;
and our hard-wood trees, with their firm foundations in the ground,
and their slow, periodical growth, could never by decaying in the
open air have produced the peculiar and rich combinations we find in
the coal-beds. The nature and bearing of these three concurrent fac-
tors have been carefully studied out by M. L. Grand' Eury, who has
for that purpose spent many years in personal inspection of various
mines and their surroundings, and has presented, in his " Memoire sur
la formation de la houille " (" Memoir on the Formation of Coal," Paris,
1882), a complete theory on the subject, including a review of the de-
tails of the process as taught by his observations of the phenomena.
The plants of the coal-measures, so far as their nature has been re-
vealed to us by their remains, were great ferns, gigantic lycopodiums,
called by the geologists lepidodendrons, and calamites and asterophyl-
lites, allied to existing Equisetacem ; all referable to the class of cryp-
togams. Besides these was another group, the character of which was
long problematical, composed of the sigillarias and stigmarias. It now
appears to be established that the stigmarias were a kind of rhizoma
which had the faculty of persisting for a long time under the mud un-
changed, growing and multiplying by stolons, but incapable in that
condition of producing sexual organs ; while under favorable circum-
stances they formed enormous buds whence shot up to the height of
a hundred or a hundred and fifty feet the huge leaf-clad stems
whose fossils, marked with the beautiful scars representing the leaf-
attachments, have been called sigillarias. Gymnosperms were also
quite plentiful, of one class of which, the cordaites, M. Grand' Eury
has made some happy restorations. He has found their leaves and
seeds in considerable abundance at Saint-Etienne, and he has observed
at the same place visible traces of their carbonized trunks, still stand-
ing erect and traversing the sandstone strata of some of the quarries.
A peculiar feature of these plants was the extraordinary predomi-
nance of the cellular or succulent tissues in them, and the correspond-
ing rarity of the hard or fibro-ligneous parts, which appear reduced to
insignificant cylinders. It was certainly not the destiny of these parts
to increase with time, after the manner of the wood of our trees ; and,
in examining the mature stems of the ancient plants, we never find
any more than an extremely thin ring of real wood. The rest is all
pith, and even the bark, except on the outside, frequently presents an
open or spongy texture. Such structure is similar to that of the
aquatic plants of the present time, which can not exist at all in the
air, and wither as soon as they are taken out of the water. An atmos-
