58 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
phere saturated with moisture was therefore essential to their vigor ;
and in such an atmosphere, according to M. Grand' Eury, they grew
continually, without interruption by changes of season, without rest
or alternations, to exhaustion ; then to fall to the ground, and give
place to other similar growths. So luxuriant a vegetation could only
have been produced by the combination of an ultra-tropical heat with
an excessive humidity, under no other changes of seasons than those
distinguished by intervals of relative calm and of torrential rains. At
the same time, the superabundance of green parts, which characterized
even the trunks of the trees, presupposes a considerable intensity of
light ; and all the phenomena point to a strong diffused light, the
direct rays of the sun being tempered by the interposed veil of vapors,
as that under the influence of which these growths were produced.
The third element of the problem, that of the material disposition
of the places in which the coal was formed, is the one that has offered
the most difficulties. Two theories have been held on this subject.
One is, that the materials were carried by ocean-currents or rivers
from considerable distances to the places of deposit. Naturalists,
however, who have applied themselves specially to the study of the
carboniferous flora, have not been able to reconcile the orderly ar-
rangement of the fragments, in which the specimens are so delicately
posed, mingled without confusion, and often distributed uniformly in
collections of leaves of the same species, with the confused drifts which
are the almost invariable results of such a method of transportation.
Moreover, in all coal-regions, recognizable trunks of calamites, tree-
ferns, sigillarias, and other types of the carboniferous flora are found
in the neighborhood of the coal, vertically crossing the strata of sand-
stone that accompany and separate the coal-beds in such a manner as
to show that they grew over the ground of the whole region, and to
indicate that their transformation was dependent ujjon some special or
local phenomenon which may have been quite simple, or at least nat-
ural, and were probably resultant from the physical conditions of the
land at that epoch. The other theory, that coal originated in the
decomposition of trees and plants that grew on the spot, is insufficient
to account for all the phenomena and circumstances, and raises new
difficulties.
M. Grand' Eury, in whose theory transportation, but of a different
character from that presumed in the first of these two theories, forms
an important element, has been enabled, through his investigations at
Saint-lfitienne, to form a clear idea of the nature of coal and the processes
to which we owe it, and also to enter into the details of the matter, to
go back to the true causes of the processes, and to describe with re-
markable precision how they must have taken place. The land of the
carboniferous formations appears, after an intelligent examination of
the stratigraphy, to have been frequently covered by the sea, and there-
fore in its immediate neighborhood. The coal-beds themselves were
