HOW THE ANCIENT FORESTS BECAME COAL. 61
a book. A close examination of coal and its textitre under the micro-
scope will show that only water could have taken all the fragments of
such different sizes and consistencies and arranged them in this way.
The disposition is the same as is always shown when leaves and frag-
ments of plants, having become thoroughly soaked, sink and form strati-
fications at the bottom of ponds. In the coal, the elements continue
visible, and their arrangement in superposed laminte is evident, while
the interstices between the planes of junction appear to have been
filled up in the course of the formation of the beds. These facts,
with the perfect condition of the organization of many of the frag-
ments ; their agglomeration in an amorjihous pulp, the resultant of the
previous maceration of a host of fragments ; and the reduction of the
whole mass by compression to half of its primitive thickness — all
parts of one and the same phenomenon — point to the action and weight
of the bed of water at the bottom of which the stratification took
place. The perfect uniformity which reigned over the formation of
coal has given it generally a schistous structure, in thin leaves dis-
posed in a parallel fashion and fissile in the direction of the plane of
deposition. It is also found, on attentive examination, to be some-
what varied in constituency, according to the varying character of the
elements of which it is composed, and the different stages of fresh-
ness and maturity in which they were deposited. One kind, which
M. Grand' Eury calls " fusaine," from its resemblance to a stick-char-
coal, comes from the decomposition of stems from which the anatom-
ical structure has disappeared while they preserve their form. The
green parts appear as crystalline laminae, or scales, or black particles
in the amorphous mass. This mass, the result of the maceration of
wholly decomposed particles, constitutes the amorphous coal in which,
besides " fusaine," we can always discover some remains of vegetable
structure testifying to the common origin of all the coal products.
Within these differences of type are innumerable variations passing
from one to another, the existence of which prevents our establishing
a clear distinction between the coals most homogeneous in appearance
and those which show the multifarious and manifest traces of hardly
altered organized elements.
M. Grand' Eury's sketches introduce us to the depths of the carbon-
iferous forests, into regions of dense moisture, at the feet of gentle
slopes where are accumulating in stagnant ponds immense drifts of
the remains of constantly active, exuberant, and quickly exhausted
vegetation. Masses of this kind may even now be observed in the
midst of the virgin forests of hot countries ; how much more might
we have expected to find them in ancient epochs, when the trees made
no wood, but sent up spontaneous, ungainly shoots, sudden growths in
green columns, the function of Avhich was as ephemeral as their texture
was weak ! Most of the carboniferous stems, hollow or filled with pith
only, fell by the sheer exaggeration of their growth ; the tree-ferns
