62 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
■were crowned with fronds of marvelous dimensions ; the stems of the
sigillarias shed their leaves rapidly ; and the remains of all these rank
growths were incessantly accumulating in a sultry shade on a water-
soaked soil. We can conceive the enormous production of humus.
Decomposition was accelerated by every rain, and the whole mass was
reduced, down to the very bottom, to a black pulp ; and this is why,
notwithstanding we have such abundant materials, we meet so many
difficulties in reconstructing the tyj^es. The fallen trunks seldom re-
mained whole, but swelled and burst. The soft and porous parts gave
way first, then the dense and fibrous parts were detached from the
cortical mass ; that, more tenacious and fii-m, spread out and resisted
longer than the rest. Nothing remained of the fern-stems but the
peripheric sheath or the disaggregated interior fibers ; of the cordaites,
sigillarias, and lepidodendrons only the cortical regions. The detached
leaves formed other accumulations ; and all these heaps, standing as
obstructions in different places, were waiting for the arrival and pas-
sage of the water to yield to it innumerable fragments in very unequal
degrees of decomposition. When the great rains came on, the waters,
filtering in from every side, trickling down all the sloj^es, gathered
here and there in temporary lakes, and finally overcame all the dams
of organic matter they met — an immense mass of detritus going down
to the lacustrine center. With these old and disorganized residues, the
rains, which we must imagine to have been torrential, brought down
also everything that would yield to their impulsion — tree-trunks,
leaves, young shoots, and at times entire plants. It is these remains,
so fresh in condition, these leaves so delicate, and clearly defined, these
organs so whole which we see in our collections distinguishable in their
slightest details, and lying spread out in the leaves of the great herba-
rium of which it is our privilege to turn the pages.
M. Grand' Eury's theory does not appear to offer anything that is
discordant either with ancient phenomena or with those of more recent
periods. It possibly has its place marked even now among the grand
scenes of contemporary nature. We read in the narratives of the travel-
ers who have ascended the great rivers of the interior of Africa, the
Xile, for example, how their boats have been stopped for days at a time
by submerged remains and the accumulations of plants hiding the river
on which they were floating. In the face of such pictures, which show
us sedges, water-lilies, and immense colonies of floating plants, under
which the river has disappeared, while its eddies, its lagoons, and its
deep basins are temporarily flooded after having been dry for months,
we can not escape being carried back in mind to the phenomena, doubt-
lessly not quite parallel, but assuredly of the same order, to which was
due the formation of the coals and lignites in ancient epochs. These
were certainly not accidental or episodical phenomena, produced by
circumstances which, once realized, were never to appear again, but
occurred in the course of a series of analosrous combinations of condi-
