64 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
we disposed of him, two years later. These paroxysms would, at
times, gain such complete control of his mind as to either paralyze or
j)ervert all his physical senses.
The first one that I observed was brought on by the falling of a
stick in the stove, back of which he was sleeping. WhereuiDon he
started up, and commenced barking violently at a small leaf that was
lying on the floor, every now and then making a dash toward it, after
which he would retreat in the greatest terror. Then he would crawl
slowly toward it again, and when he came within reach Avould strike
at it with one of his fore-paws, drawing the paw back quickly with a
little yelp, and then carefully looking it over as if to find an imagined
injury, and licking it.
While the leaf was in the room he appeared to be entirely insensi-
ble to feeling or sound. Severe blows were administered with a stout
stick, but they produced no more impression than if they had fallen
upon the floor. He did not shrink, nor even by the slightest tremor
give any indication that pain accompanied their infliction. Neither
would he pay any attention to commands that were given in a loud
voice close to his ear, although he had always shown himself obedient
to any commands that he could understand ; nor would any other
sound, no matter how loud, cause him to make the slightest motion
indicating that he had heard it.
After this his peculiar mental condition became more noticeable ;
the most trivial circumstance would sometimes be sufiicient to destroy
his mental equilibrium. A slight noise might bring on one of his
paroxysms ; but, singularly, it would generally have no eifect unless it
proceeded from the kitchen, which seemed to be to him a haunted
chamber. Often in passing through the room he would cringe and
put his tail between his legs.
At other times he would fix his eyes upon a spot on the ceiling or
in a corner, or upon a towel hung up to dry, and would retreat from
the object upon which his gaze was fixed, with dilated pupils and
every other sign of intense fear of the imaginary " ghost." At these
times his senses, instead of being simply deadened, were generally
active, but in a perverted condition. If he was struck by a person
behind him, instead of shrinking away, he would give a start toward
the person who had struck him. Likewise a sudden noise, as the
stamping of a foot, no matter from what part of the room it came,
would invariably cause him to retreat violently from the imaginary
object of his terror. He was apparently so prepossessed by one idea
for the time being that, to his perverted senses, every noise was made
and every blow was struck by the object which had excited him.
Sometimes he would stand on his hind legs and, directing his at-
tention to the middle of the ceiling, would retreat back^vard, barking
violently all the while. Then, seeming to be entirely mastered by his
terror, he would droj) on all-fours and run out of the house at full
