FROM BUTTERCUPS TO MONK'S-HOOD. 65
speed, with his tail between his legs. It would be some time before
he could be induced to enter the house again, and even then he would
tremble violently.
Certainly in the case of this dog the mental phenomena exhibited
can safely be termed superstition, and, whether it was normal or super-
induced by momentary insanity, it was plain that for the time being
he actually saw " ghosts." For this reason the case is a very interest-
ing one, as it furnishes additional evidence of the similarity existing
between the mental actions of man and those of the lower animals.
T
FEOM BUTTEKCUPS TO MONK'S -HOOD.
By Peofessoe GKANT ALLEN.
look at these queer, irregular blue flowers, growing on a long
-x_ and handsome spike in the old-fashioned garden border, nobody
would ever dream of saying that they were in reality altered and
modified buttercups. And yet that is just what they really are, with
all the marks of their curious pedigree still clearly impressed upon
their very form. Pull one of the blue blossoms off, and pick it care-
fully to pieces, and you will see how strangely and profoundly it has
been distorted by insect selection. Monk's-hood is most essentially a
bee-flower, and in examining it we see the results of bee action plainly
set forth in every organ. If we pick a common meadow buttercup
for comparison with it, we shall be able to see exactly wherein the
two flowers differ, as well as why the one has gained an advantage in
the struggle for existence over the other.
The outside whorl of the buttercup consists, of course, of five
separate greenish sepals, which together make up its calyx. Inside
the sepals come the five golden petals composing the cup-shaped co-
rolla ; and inside the petals, again, come the numerous stamens, and
the equally numerous carpels or unripe fruits, each containing a single
solitary little seed. Moreover, all these parts are regularly and sym-
metrically arranged round a common center, so as to form a series of
concentric whorls. But when we look at the monk's-hood we see no
such simple and orderly arrangement in its architectural plan. At
first sight, we recognize no distinct sepals or petals : and the colored
organs that take their place are very irregular in shape, and disposed
in an unsymmetrical fashion — or rather, to speak more correctly, their
symmetry is not radial, but bilateral. When we begin to pull our
blue blossom to pieces, however, we gradually recognize the various
parts of which it is composed. First of all come five sepals, not green-
ish as in the buttercup, but bright blue ; and not all alike, but specially
modified to fulfill their separate functions. The uppermost sepal of
VOL. xxni. — 5
