FROM BUTTERCUPS TO MONK'S-HOOD. 6-j
metrical, and never one-sided, because the conditions are the same all
round, and the visiting insects can light upon them equally from every
side. But flowers which grow sideways from a spike are very apt to
become bilaterally symmetrical ; indeed, whenever they are not so,
one can always give an easy explanation of their deviation from the
rule. Probably the blossoms of the monk's-hood began by arranging
themselves in a long and handsome spike, so as more readily to attract
the eyes of insects ; and that was the real starting-point of all their
subsequent modifications. Or, to put the same thing more literally,
those monk's-hoods which happened to grow spike- wise succeeded best
in attracting the bees, and therefore were most often fertilized in the
proper manner. Next, we may sujDpose, the large green sepals, being
much exposed to view, began to acquire a bluish tinge, as all the
upper parts of highly developed plants are apt to do ; and the bluer
they became, the more conspicuous they looked, and therefore the
better they got on in competition with their neighbors, especially since
bees are particularly fond of blue. As each bee would necessarily
light on the middle or lower portion of the flower, he would begin by
extracting the honey from the two upper petals ; but it would be
rather awkward for him to turn round head downward, and suck the
nectaries of the three bottom ones. Hence, in course of time, espe-
cially after the flower began to acquire its present shape, the two top
petals became specialized as nectaries, while the three lower ones grad-
ually atrophied, since the colored sepals had practically usurped their
attractive function. But as the flower can only succeed by being fer-
tilized, all these changes must have been really subordinate to the
great change which was simultaneously going on in the mechanism
for insuring fertilization. Slowly the blossoms altered to the bilateral
shape — they adapted themselves by the bee's unconscious selection to
the insect's form. The uppermost sepal grew into the hood, so arranged
that the bee must get under it in order to reach the long nectaries
containing their copious store of honey. At the same time the bee
must brush against the stamens, and cover his breast with a stock of
adhesive pollen-grains. When he flies away to the next flower he car-
ries the pollen with him ; and, as he rifles the nectaries in the second
blossom, he both deposits pollen from the last plant upon the sensitive
surface of the carpels in this, and also collects a fresh lot of pollen to
fertilize whatever other flower he may next favor with a call. The
increased certainty of fertilization thus obtained enables the plant to
dispense with some of the extra carpels which its buttercup ancestors
once possessed ; and, by lessening the number to three, it manages to
get the whole set impregnated at a single visit. But, as three seeds
would be a small number to depend upon in a world of overstocked
markets and adverse chances, it makes up for the diminution of its
carpels by largely increasing the stock of seeds in each.
Thus the whole shape and arrangement of the monk's-hood bear
