68 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
distinct reference to the habits and tastes of the fertilizing bees. It is
a mountain plant by origin, belonging to a tribe which took its rise
among the great central chains of Europe and Asia, and these Alpine
races are usually highly developed in adai)tation to insect fertilization,
because they depend more absolutely upon a few upland species than
do the eclectic flowers of the plains, which may be impregnated hap-
hazard by a dozen difl^erent flies, or moths, or beetles. We can still
dimly trace many of the links which connect it with very simple and
primitive buttercups, if not directly, at least by the analogy of other
plants. For all the buttercup tribe show us regular gradations in the
same direction. The simplest kinds are round, yellow, and many-car-
peled, like the buttercups. Then those species which display their
sepals largely have dwarfed petals, like hellebore and globe-flower, or
have lost them altogether, like marsh-marigold, which trusts entirely for
color display to its big golden calyx. The still higher anemones have
the sepals white, red, or blue ; and the very advanced columbine has
all the petals spurred, and developed into nectaries, like those of monk's-
hood. But columbine still keeps to single terminal flowers, so that
here the five petals remain regular and circularly symmetrical, though
the carpels are reduced to five. Fancy a number of such columbine-
flowers crowded together on a spike, however, and you can readily
picture to yourself by rough analogy the origin of monk's-hood. The
sepals would now become the most conspicuous part ; the two upper
petals would alone be useful in insuring fertilization, and the lower
ones would soon shrivel away from pure disuse. The development of
the hood and the lengthening of the upper petals would easily follow
by insect selection. It is a significant fact that our only other spiked
buttercup, the larkspur, has equally irregular and bilateral flowers,
though its honey is concealed in a long spur formed by the petals, and
accessible to but one English insect, the humble-bee. — luiou-ledge.
OK THE COLORS OF WATER.
By M. W. SPEING,
OF THE TTNIVERSITT OF LIEGE.
YIEWED in relatively shallow masses, clear water ajjpears wholly
colorless. In our daily dealings with the liquid we seldom have
occasion to observe it in great depths ; hence it has been generally
believed that water is quite destitute of color. The ancients were
accustomed to explain the transparency of some bodies by assuming
that they partook of the nature of water ; and we now speak of a
diamond as of the first water, to emphasize its perfect transparency and
colorlessness. If, however, we regard the larger masses of water in
