6i2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the sunlit fields, imbibing vitality at the fountain-head, for the same
sun that evolved the fern-forests of the Miocene alluvium has still
means of his own for quickening the vital energy of the most complex
organisms. That tonic catholicon operates even through the trijDle
teguments of a French uniform. After the tedium of a long voyage,
and the delay in the Vera Cruz harbor-barracks, the French troops in
Mexico suflfered from a form of asthma that resisted all medication,
but a six days' march through the hills of the tierra templada brought
permanent relief, except to a few invalids who had been transported
in closed ambulances. At first, though, the remedy is apt to aggravate
the evil. After a couple of sleepless nights, the first day of a pedes-
trian tour, even through the paradise of a June landscape, is steep, up-
hill work, but, with the aid of a merry traveling-companion and a
light knapsack. Nature will at last prevail, and three days' hardship is
a cheap price for the remission of a three weeks' daily and nightly
martyrdom — besides the possible sequelae. For the chief danger of
chronic asthma is the probability of serious pathological complica-
tions. The direct result of dyspnoea is the impoverishment of the
blood by an impeded process of aeration, and the concomitants of the
disease are therefore analogous to those of pulmonary phthisis and
protracted in-door life — hypertrophy of the heart, emphysema, or
swelling of the lungs, inflammation of the bronchi, dropsical swellings
of the extremities. Even short attacks often lead to malignant after-
efEects — insomnia, indigestion, headache, and a peculiar affection of
the lungs that closely simulates the premonitory symptoms of pneu-
monia ; after the asthma proper has entirely subsided, a new difliculty
of breathing supervenes in the form of twitching pains in the pleura
and the upper lobes of the lungs. Before the end of the second day,
rest, embrocations with hot mutton-tallow, and a spare diet, generally
relieve these symptoms, which follow more frequently after a drug-
suppressed case of asthma than after the pedestrian-cure. The latter
method of treatment is intuitively indicated by the restlessness of
asthma-patients. The same hygienic instinct which makes a passion-
ate longing for refrigeration a regular symptom of climatic fevers
seems here to prompt peripatetic enterprises by associating in-door
life with the idea of apoplexy and suffocation.
Like consumption, asthma is a house-disease. Want of fresh air
and exercise will counteract all prophylactics, while the out-door liver
can confine his precautions to the beginning of the warm season. A
frugal diet, both as an hygienic aperient and a sedative of irate pas-
sions, will help the patient over the asthma-weeks (May and June
in the north, and April and May in the lower latitudes) ; an airy bed-
room and cold baths, over the summer season. The winter months will
take care of themselves, and every year thus passed diminishes the
danger of relapse.
