92 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
parallel through a condensing lens, passes through a square glass ves-
sel containing clear water. We introduce a pane of violet glass into
its path. The illuminating radiation is cut off by it. and only a few
violet rays are transmitted. The ultra-violet ones, however, are repre-
sented much more abundantly in the now invisible pencil. Their ex-
istence is revealed at once when we add a few drops of the quinine
solution to the water. Bright blue-colored clouds now move within
the vessel, generated by the quinine absorbing the ultra-violet rays
and changing them into blue light. The appearance becomes still
brighter by substituting the more energetic fluorescent esculine in
place of the quinine.
If we draw a sketch * upon yellow paper with an esculine solution,
it is invisible in daylight as well as by electric light. But if we in-
sert the violet glass into the pencil-cone, the single parts of the pic-
ture begin to shine vividly with a blue light. The sketch flames up
at once in the obscurity before our eye, and we might imagine that
we have been transported into Fairy-land.
We have until now had our attention engaged with the ultra-violet
rays ; it remains to speak of their practical adajjtation. On account
of their chemical effect upon the salts of silver, they constitute the
basis of an important branch of industry — photography. As we
have seen above, the red rays have almost no influence upon such
preparations, while the effect of the yellow and green ones, when com-
pared to that of the blue, violet, and ultra-violet, is not very great.
Many mysteries of photography, incomprehensible to the layman, are
explained hereby. A red and a black dress, for instance, are exactly
alike upon a photograph, while blue and white, in their effect, ap-
proach nearer to white.
We now turn to the opposite end of the spectrum — the ultra-red
rays. Our proposition is, " Are we able to render pei'ceptible to the
eye, the organ of sight, those rays that operate upon our sense of
feeling simply as conveyers of heat ? " We can attain our purpose
only by augmenting the number of vibrations the thermal rays, by
their influence upon suitable bodies, in such a manner that they
are rendered perceptible to the visual organ. We provide the elec-
tric lamp with a parabolic reflector, A B, silvered and polished
within, with incandescent carbon-points in its focus. The intense
rays of the lamp are made parallel by the reflector, and pass through
the room as a bright horizontal column. We recognize their course
by the illuminated dust-particles of the air. We interpose another
spherical reflector, C D, also silvered and polished, in the course of the
rays. According to the law of reflection, all the rays falling upon the
latter unite into one point, the focus (Fig. 3). It is easily recognized,
since it brightly illuminates the dust-particles of the air. But not
* The one employed by Mr. W. Fried, of Augsburg, represents a Renaissance ornamen-
tation, of about sixty centimetres in diameter.
