LENGTHENING TEE VISIBLE SPECTRUM. 93
alone tlie luminous, but also the thermal rays, are united at this point.
We become convinced of this fact by holding a cigar at the focus : it
is at once ignited, begins to smoke, and bursts into flame. In conse-
quence of the concentration of C
the caloric rays, the most varied ^^
inflammable bodies may be ig-
nited at this luminous point.
Paper is perforated and charred
in a moment, zinc consumes
with a bright violet flame. ^g
Very thin, blackened platinum "^i
is brought to a white heat, and
emits an intense white light. TTe place a test-tube filled with water
within the focus ; it begins at once to burst into bubbles, and com-
mences to boil. Are these observed occurrences effected by the rays
of heat or of light, emanating from the incandescent carbon-points ?
"We answer this question by placing a body in the course of the rays,
which, although it transmits the luminous rays, absorbs the thermal
ones. Such a one is a concentrated solution of alum in water. We
place a glass vessel, filled with this perfectly transparent solution, be-
tween the two reflectors, and in this manner sift the rays emanating
from the carbon-points. The luminous focus is still there, but the
ebullition of the water in the test-tube ceases at once. We remove the
vessel, and ebullition is resumed with violence. Those rays, therefore,
that caused the boiling were absorbed by the alum solution. This had
meanwhile been raised in temperature, and, if left sufiiciently long, it
would begin to boil. We return the solution into the path of the rays,
and place white paper within the focus. It is illumined brightly, but
not consumed. We repeat the experiment with gun-cotton wrapped in
white paper. It might lie there for a hundred years without exploding.
We remove the vessel, and explosion occurs at once. We continue the
experiment with black paper, by bringing it into the focus of the rays
sifted through the solution, when it is at once perforated and ignited.
Gun-cotton wrapped in black paper explodes almost instantly. Why
is it that the same rays that left white paper intact at once ignite
black ? The luminous radiation transmitted by the solution is not
absorbed, but reflected, by the white paper. It is brightly illumined,
but not heated. Black paper, however, absorbs these rays, is heated
thereby, and ignites.
The preceding experiments convince us that the combustion and
heating of bodies in the focus are solely caused by the dark rays emit-
ted by the carbon-points. We confirm this conviction by introducing
into the path of the rays a body transmitting the dark radiation with
the greatest facility, while completely absorbing the luminous one.
According to Tyndall's experiments, this condition is complied with
to a very high degree by a solution of iodine in carbonic disulphide.
