94 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
TVe introduce a very thin-walled glass cell, filled with such a solution,
between the reflectors. Light is now cut off, but heat passes through
freely. The focus is absolutely dark, but it still contains heat, of
which fact we can soon convince ourselves by introducing a cigar into
it : it is ignited and bursts into flame. White as well as black paper
is charred and ignites in it. A piece of platinum-foil is raised to white
heat in the dark focus. If we examine the incandescent platinum
with a prism, we find that it emits again all colors, from the most ex-
treme red to the most extreme violet ; consequently, we have here the
counterpart of fluorescence. The dark rays, by the augmentation of
the number of vibrations, are converted into luminous ones, influencing
the eye. Tyndall, who first observed and examined this appearance,
called the conversion calorescence.
We have thus passed through a domain of physics, the more exact
knowledge of which we mainly owe to the researches of our century,
more especially to very recent times. That part of radiation percep-
tible to our organs of sense was extended far beyond the violet end
of the spectrum, in investigating the chemical effects of light and
fluorescence. We succeeded at the same time in rendering visible
that part simply felt by the eye. It can not for a moment be sup-
posed that there are no more rapid or slow rays, besides those already
known to us, and ranging in the number of vibrations from one hun-
dred and sixty to two thousand billions. Their existence can just as
little be doubted as that of the ultra-violet. Whether we shall ever
succeed in rendering them perceptible to our organs of sense remains
a task for the investigations of the future. — Westermann's Monats-
hefte.
THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY.
L
IS GRAVITATION UNIVERSAL?
By EGBERT S. BALL,
ASTRO NOMEE-EOTAL OF lEELAND.
IT is proposed in this and the following paper to trace some parts
of the boundary-line which divides the truths which have been
established in astronomy from those parts of the science which must
be regarded as more or less hypothetical. It will be obvious that only
a small part of so wide a subject can be discussed, or even alluded to,
in the limits proposed. We intend, therefore, to select certain promi-
nent questions, and to discuss those questions with such fullness as the
circumstances will admit.
It will be desirable to commence with that great doctrine in as-
tronomy which is often regarded as almost universally established.
