THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY. 95
The doctrine to which we refer is known as the law of universal gravi-
tation. It is customary to enunciate this law in the proposition that
every particle of matter attracts every other particle with a force
which varies directly as the product of the masses and inversely as
the square of their distance. It is no doubt convenient to enunciate
the great law in this very simple manner. It might seem awkward
to have to specify all the qualifications which would be necessary if
that enunciation is to assert no more than what we absolutely know.
Perhaps many people believe, or think they believe, the law to be
true in its general form ; yet the assertion that the law of gravitation
is universally true is an enormous, indeed, an infinite, exaggeration of
the actual extent of our information.
To make this clear, let us contrast the law of gravitation as gen-
erally stated with the proposition which asserts that the earth rotates
on its axis. No one who is capable of understanding the evidence on
the question can doubt that the earth really does rotate upon its axis.
I purposely set aside any difiiculties of a quasi-metaphysical character,
and speak merely of words in their ordinary acceptation. In stating
that the earth rotates upon its axis, we assert merely a definite propo-
sition as regards one body, all the facts which the assertion involves
are present to our minds, and we know that the assertion must be true.
Equally conclusive is the evidence for the statement that the earth
revolves around the sun. Concrete truths of this kind could be multi-
plied indefinitely. We can make similar assertions with regard to the
planets. We can assert that the planets rotate upon their axes, and
that the planets revolve around the sun. But the law of gravitation
is a proposition of quite a different nature. Let us examine briefly
the evidence by which this law has been established.
The science of dynamics is founded upon certain principles known
as the laws of motion. The simplest of these principles asserts that
a body, once set moving in a straight line, will continue to move on
uniformly forever in the same straight line, unless some force be per-
mitted to act upon that body. For nature as we know it, this law
seems to be fully proved. It has been tested in every way that we
have been able to devise. All these tests have tended to confirm that
law. The law is therefore believed to be true, at all events through-
out the regions of space accessible to us and to our telescopes. Assum-
ing this law and the other principles analogous to it, we can apply
them to the case of the revolution of the earth around the sun. As
the earth is not moving in a straight line, it must be acted uj^on by
some force. It can be shown that this force must be directed toward
the sun. It will further appear that the intensity of this force will
vary inversely as the square of the distance between the earth and the
sun. The movements of the planets can be made to yield the same
conclusions. All these movements can be accounted for on the sup-
position that each planet is attracted by the sun with a force which
