96 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
varies directly as the product of the masses, and inversely as the
square of the distance between the two bodies. When more careful
observations are introduced, it is seen that the planets exhibit some
slight deviations from the movements which they would have were
each planet only acted upon by the attraction of the sun. These
deviations do not invalidate the principle of attraction. They have
been shown to arise from the mutual attractions of the planets them-
selves. Each of the planets is thus seen to attract each of the other
planets. The intensity of this attraction between any pair of the
planets is proportional to the masses of these planets, and varies in-
versely as the square of the distance between them. We may use
similar language with regard to the satellites by which so many of
the planets are attended. Each satellite revolves around its primary.
The movements of each satellite are mainly due to the preponderating
attraction of the primary. Irregularities in the movements of the
satellites are well known to astronomers, but these irregularities can
be accounted for by the attraction of other bodies of the system. The
law of attraction thus seems to prevail among the small bodies of the
system as well as among the large bodies. It is true that there are
still a few outstanding discrepancies which can not yet be said to
have been completely accounted for by the principle of gravitation.
This is probably due to the difficulties of the subject. The calcula-
tions which are involved are among the most difficult on which the
mind of man has ever been engaged. We may practically assume
that the law of gravitation is universal between the sun, the planets,
and the satellites ; and we may suppose that the few difficulties still
outstanding will be iinally cleared away, as has been the case with so
many other seeming discrepancies. But even when these admissions
have been made, are we in a position to assert that the law of gravi-
tation is universal throughout the solar system ? We are here con-
fronted with a very celebrated difficulty. Do those erratic objects
known as comets acknowledge the law of gravitation ? There can be
no doubt that in one sense the comets do obey the law of gravitation
in a most signal and emphatic manner. A comet usually moves in an
orbit of very great eccentricity ; and it is one of the most remarkable
triumphs of Newton's discovery, that we were by its means able to
render account of how the movements of a comet could be produced
by the attraction of the sun. As a whole, the comet is very amenable
to gravitation, but what are we to say as to the tails of comets, which
certainly do not appear to follow the law of universal attraction?
The tails of comets, so far from being attracted toward the sun, seem
actually to be repelled from the sun. Nor is even this an adequate
statement of the case. The repulsive force by which the tails of the
comets are driven from the sun is sometimes a very much more intense
force than the attraction of gravitation.
I have no intention to discuss here the vexed question as to the
