THE BOUNDARIES OF ASTRONOMY. 97
origin of tlie tails of comets. I do not now inquire whether the re-
pulsion by which the tail is produced be due te the intense radiation
from the sun, or to electricity, or to some other agent. It is sufficient
for our present purpose to note that, even if the tails of comets do
gravitate toward the sun, the attraction is obscured by a more poAver-
ful repulsive force.
The solar system is a very small object when viewed in comparison
with the dimensions of the sidereal system. The planets form a group
nestled up closely around the sun. This little group is separated from
its nearest visible neighbors in space by the most appalling distances.
A vessel in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean is not more completely
isolated from the shores of Europe and America than is our solar sys-
tem from the stars and other bodies which surround it in space. Our
knowledge of gravitation has been most entirely obtained from the
study of the bodies in the solar system. Let us inquire what can be
ascertained as to the existence of this law in other parts of the uni-
verse. Newton knew nothing of the existence of the law of gravita-
tation beyond the confines of the solar system. A little more is known
now.
Our actual knowledge of the existence of gravitation in the celes-
tial spaces outside the solar system depends entirely upon those very
interesting objects known as binary stars. There are in the heavens
many cases of two stars occurring quite close together. A well-known
instance is presented in the star Epsilon Ljrrae, where two stars are so
close together that it is a fair test of good vision to be able to separate
them. But there are many cases in which the two stars are so close
together that they can not be seen separately without the aid of a
telescope. We may take, for instance, the very celebrated double star
Castor, well known as one of the Twins. Viewed by the unaided eye,
the two stars look like a single star, but in a moderately good tele-
scope it is seen that the object is really two separate stars quite close
together. The question now comes as to whether the propinquity of
the two stars is apparent or real. It might be explained by the sup-
position that the two stars were indeed close together compared with
the distance by which they are separated ; or it could be equally ex-
plained by supposing that the two stars, though really far apart, yet
appeared so nearly in the same line of vision that when projected on
the surface of the heavens they seemed close together. It can not be
doubted that in the case of many of the double stars, especially those
in which the components appear tolerably distant, the propinquity is
only apparent, and arises from the two stars being near the same line
of vision. But it is, also, undoubtedly true that in the case of very
many of the double stars, especially among those belonging to the class
which includes Castor, the two stars are really at about the same dis-
tance from us, and, therefore, as compared with that distance, they are
really close together.
VOL. xxm. — 7
