98 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Among the splendid achievements of Sir William Herschel, one of
the greatest was his discovery of the movements of the binary stars.
It was shown by Herschel that in some of the double stars one star of
the pair was moving around the other, and that their apparent dis-
tances were changing. The discoveries inaugurated by Herschel have
been widely extended by other astronomers. One of the more rapidly
moving of the double stars lies in the constellation of Coma Berenices-
The revolution of one component around the other requires a period
of 25*7 years. The two components of this star are exceedingly close
together, the greatest distance being about one second of arc. There
^is very great difficulty in making accurate measurements of a double
star of which the components are so close. More reliance may con-
sequently be placed upon the determination of the orbits of other bi-
nary stars of which the comi^onents are farther apart. Among these
we may mention the remarkable binary star ^ Ursae Majoris. The dis-
tance between the two components of this star varies from one second
of arc to three seconds. The first recorded measurement of this ob-
ject was by Sir William Herschel, in 1781, and since that date it has
been repeatedly observed. From a comparison of all the measure-
ments which have been made it appears that the periodic time of the
revolution of one of these components about the other is about sixty
years. This star has thus been followed through more than one entire
revolution. The importance of these discoveries became manifest
when an attempt was made to explain the movements. It was soon
shown that the movements of the stars were such as could be explained
if the two stars attracted each other in conformity with the law of
gravitation. It would, however, be hardly correct to assert that the
discovery of the binary stars proved that the two stars attracted each
other with a force which varies inversely as the square of their dis-
tance. Even under the most favorable circumstances the observations
are very difficult ; they can not be made with the same accuracy as is
attained in observing the movements of the planets ; they have not
even the value which antiquity will often confer on an observation
which has not much else in its favor. There are probably many dif-
ferent suppositions which would explain all that has yet been observed
as to the motions of the binary stars. Gravitation is but one of those
suppositions. Gravitation will no doubt carry with it the prestige
acquired by its success in explaining phenomena in the solar system.
I do not know that any one has ever seriously put forward any other
explanation except gravitation to account for the movements of the
binary stars, nor is any one likely to do so while gravitation can con-
tinue to render an account of the observed facts ; but all this is very
different from saying that the discovery of the binary stars \xa^ proved
that the law of gravitation extends to the stellar regions.
Except for what the binary stars tell us, we would know nothing as
to the existence or the non-existence of the law of gravitation beyond
