102 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
quite correct in assuming that the distance is not less than two hun-
dred billions of miles. This star is, indeed, ten times as far from us
as a Centauri, which is generally considered to be the sun's nearest
neighbor in our sidereal system. The proper motion and the distance
of 1880 Groombridge being both assumed, it is easy to calculate the
velocity with which that star must be moving. The velocity is indeed
stupendous and worthy of a majestic sun ; it is no less than 200 miles
a second. It would seem that the velocity may even be much larger
than this. The proper motion of the star which we see is merely the
true proper motion of the star foreshortened by projection on the sur-
face of the heavens. In adf^pting 200 miles a second as the velocity
of 1830 Groombridge, we therefore make a most moderate assumj^tion,
which may and probably does fall considerably short of the truth.
But, even with this very moderate assumption, it will be easy to show
that 1830 Groombridge seems in all probability to be merely traveling
through our system, and not permanently attached thereto.
The star sweeps along through our system with this stupendous
velocity. Now, there can be no doubt that if the star were perma-
nently to retain this velocity, it would in the course of time travel
right across our system, and, after leaving our system, would retreat
into the depths of infinite sjDace. Is there any power adequate to re-
call this star from the voyage to infinity? We know of none, unless
it be the attraction of the stars or other bodies of our sidereal system.
It therefore becomes a matter of calculation to determine whether the
attraction of all the material bodies of our sidereal system could be
adequate, even with universal gravitation, to recall a body which seems
bent on leaving that system with a velocity of 200 miles per second.
This interesting problem has been discussed by Professor Newcomb,
whose calculations we shall here follow. In the first place, we require
to make some estimate of the dimensions of the sidereal system, in
order to see whether it seems likely that this star can ever be recalled.
The number of stars may be taken at one hundred million, which is
probably double as many as the number we can see with our best tele-
scopes. The masses of the stars may be taken as on the average five
times as great as the mass of the sun. The distribution of the stars is
suggested by the constitution of the milky way. One hundred million
stars are presumed to be disposed in a flat, circular layer of such dimen-
sions that a ray of light would require thirty thousand years to traverse
one diameter. Assuming the ordinary law of gravitation, it is now
easy to compute the efficiency of such an arrangement in attempting
to recall a moving star. The whole question turns on a certain criti-
cal velocity of twenty-five miles a second. If a star darted through
the system we have just been considering with a velocity less than
twenty-five miles a second, then, after that star had moved for a cer-
tain distance, the attractive power of the system would gradually bend
the path of the star round, and force the star to return to the system.
