104 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
supposed that the peculiarities which it presents ai"e absolutely unique.
It seems more likely that there may be many other stars which are at
present passing through our system. In fact, considering that most or
all of the stars are actuall}^ in motion, it can be shown that, in the course
of ages, the whole face of the heavens is gradually changing. We are
thus led to the conclusion that our system is not an absolutely isolated
group of bodies in the abyss of space, but that we are visited by other
bodies coming from the remotest regions of space. — Contemporary
Meview.
OX BRxUN-WORK AND IIAXD-WOEK.
Bt E. M. N.
DR. BEARD'S treatise on the "Longevity of Brain-Workers"
was ably reviewed some years ago in the "Journal of Science."
Still it appears to me that the last word on this topic has not yet
been said. Certain points, both of distinction and of resemblance,
seem to have been overlooked as well by reviewer as by author, and
certain of the conclusions drawn are at least open to question.
I may perhaps be allowed to put the opening question. What is
work ? The common reply is, " Any pursuit by which a man earns or
attempts to earn a livelihood and to accumulate wealth." This defi-
nition is the more to be regretted because it cherishes, or rather begets,
the vulgar error that all persons who do not aim at the accumulation
of wealth are "idlers," In point of fact such men may be doing far
greater services to the world than the most diligent and successful
votary of a trade or a profession. Darwin, having a competency, was
therewith content. To him, and to others of kindred minds, the opjjor-
tunity of devoting his whole life to the search after scientific truth was
a boon immeasurably higher than any conceivable amount of wealth.
Shall we call him an idler ? Nor is science the only field which opens
splendid prospects to men of independent means. Art, literature, phi-
lanthropy, have all their departments, unremunerative in a commercial
point of view, or at least not directly remunerative, and for all these
cultivators are wanted. Therefore, reversing the advice given by rou-
tine moralists, I would say to wealthy young men of ability : " Do not
take up any trade, business, or profession, but do some of the world's
unpaid work. Leave money-making to those who have no other option,
and be searchers for truth and beauty." Every one who follows this
advice will contribute something to show the world that the race for
wealth is not the only pursuit worthy of a rational being. I should
define work as the conscious systematic application of mind or body to
any definite purpose.
I said " of mind or body." Perhaps the expression may sound old-
