Oy BRAIX-WORK AND HAXD-WORK. 105
fashioned ; so, to avoid grating on the nerves of a monistic world, I will
say " of brain or muscle," But can we draw a sharp, well-defiued
boundary-line between brain-work and muscle-work ? Recent investi-
gations into the functions of the brain show that it has the task of
directing and co-ordinating muscular effort. The athlete, or say the
musical performer, has not merely to strengthen his muscles and ac-
quire flexibility of arm, hand, and finger ; his exercises serve at the
same time to develop and perfect those regions of the brain by which
the muscles in question are actuated and co-ordinated.
Professor Du Bois-Reymond, in his admirable articles on *' Exer-
cise" ("Popular Science Monthly" for July and August, 1882), con-
tends that " bodily exercises are not merely muscle-gymnastics, but also
nerve-gymnastics," and that practice in the movements of the limbs is
" essentially exercise of the central nerve-system." Hence muscle-work
which is not at the same time brain-work is a chimera, which has no
existence. But it will now be asked, Is there any brain-work without
muscle- work ? Undoubtedly ; we may see phenomena, we may reason
upon them, and come to a conclusion concerning their nature without
any muscular action at all. But if we even wish to write down our
results, or to tell them to a friend, some muscular action, small though
it be, is needed. Or we wish to go further : not content with merely
observing the phenomena which chance brings before our eyes, we go
forth in search of facts. Here muscular-work is blended with brain-
work. A step further : We wish to put definite questions to Nature,
to perform physical, chemical, or physiological experiments. In all
these cases the hand has to be the inseparable companion of the brain.
The efficiency of the one will not compensate for inefficiency in the
other. Now, the work of the exi^erimentalist rarely requires great
strength, but it invariably stands in need of delicacy, nicety of touch
and movement, bodily or, if you will, muscular, attributes to be reached
only by training.
It is the same in the fine arts. The painter needs not merely an
exquisite perception of form and color, an instinctive — as it appears to
outsiders — appreciation of their relations and harmonies ; unless he
possesses in addition to all this the requisite nicety of touch, he must
fail to embody in visible form the conceptions present in his brain.
Precisely the same is it with the musician. The orator and the actor
must also, in addition to their mere mental gifts, have vocal organs
thoroughly developed and disciplined. Thus we see that in the high-
est walks of science and art, brain-work and muscle-work exist, I might
say, in a state of interpenetration.
Again, at a work-table in Y Street sits a microscopist, care-
fully studying the peculiarities of a newly detected raicrobion, or dis-
secting the larva of the Phylloxera. What is he ? Brain-worker, or
muscle- worker ? You pronounce him a brain- worker ; his brain, in
your opinion, doing the larger — the essential — part of his task. So be
