Oy BRAIN-WORK AXD HAND-WORK. 107
lawyers, physicians, merchants, scientists, and men of letters — live
very much longer than the muscle-working classes ; that the greatest
and hardest brain-workers of history have lived longer on the average
than brain-workers of ordinary ability and industry ; that clergymen
are longer-lived than any other great class of brain- workers.
The first of these propositions admits of statistical proof or dis-
proof. The life-lengths of the classes of men above mentioned can be
ascertained, and their average duration compared with the mean length
of life prevalent in their times and countries. But is the superior lon-
gevity of these classes due to the fact that they are brain-workers, or
must it not be traced to a complication of causes ? If brain-work is
per se salutary and conducive to long life — which I do not deny — and
if, as we may gather from Dr. Beard's second proposition here given,
its beneficial influence is proportionate to its intensity, we should find
the men whose brain-work is devoted to origination stand highest in
the list. As such I should undoubtedly rank discoverers in science,
inventors in the industrial arts, poets, musical composers, and painters
(not of portraits). But the third proposition entirely clashes with this
conclusion. Dr. Beard tells us that, of all brain-workers, clergymen
are the most long-lived. Yet they can scarcely be called the hardest
brain-workers, since what is demanded from them is not origination,
creation, but expression. If a clergyman initiates new doctrines he is
in danger of becoming a heretic. He is expressly forbidden to do what
is expressly demanded from the man of science or the author. In-
deed, till a comparatively recent date, the life of an English country
clergyman has always been considered as one of the easiest of all ca-
reers, making no heavy demands either upon brain or muscle.
Indeed, Dr. Beard, when he undertakes a formal explanation of the
great longevity of the clergy, makes some very important concessions.
He remarks that " their calling admits of a wide variety of toil " —
" In their manifold duties their whole nature is exercised " — " Public
speaking, when not carried to the extreme of exhaustion, is the best
form of gymnastics that is known." Dr. Beard here admits, what I
also maintain, that the most healthful work is that which duly and
harmoniously calls into play all the various faculties of a man. Brain-
work is in itself good and wholesome — undoubtedly better than pur-
suits which exercise the muscles alone, leaving certain regions of the
nervous centers inactive. But it is still inferior to work which exer-
cises the entire system. Whatever calling effects this most thoroughly
and equally will be the ideal vocation. But it may be said that the
duties of the physician call a wide circle of powers into play. Why,
then, is he less long-lived than the clergyman ? In his case there is
wanting any physical exercise which may take the place of public
speaking, and he is more exposed to death from contact with malig-
nant disease.
As an instance of the especial benefit to be derived from an exer-
