THE REMEDIES OF NATURE. 769
emphasis ; " no man shall look me in the face, on the clay of judgment,
and tell the Almighty that Dr. Rush made him a drunkard ! "
I do not intend to deny that the use of mild alcoholic tonics, as a
substitute for the frightful remedies of the mediaeval Sangrados, is a
decided improvement, but, still, it is only a lesser evil, a first step of a
progressive reform. Alcohol lingers in our hospitals as slavery lingers
in the West Indies, as the witchcraft delusion lingers in Southern
Europe. Has alcohol any remedial value whatever ? Let us consider
the matter from a purely empirical stand-point. Does alcohol protect
from malarial fevers ? It is a well-known fact that the human organ-
ism can not support two diseases at the same time. Rheumatism can be
temporarily relieved by producing an artificial inflammation ; a head-
ache yields to a severe toothache. For the same reason the alcohol-
fever affords a temporary protection from other febrile symptoms —
i. e., a man might fortify his system against chills and ague by keeping
himself constantly xmder the stimulating influence of alcohol. But
sooner or later stimulation is followed by depression, and during that
reaction the other fever gets a chance, and rarely misses it. The his-
tory of epidemics proves that pyretic diseases are from eigJit to twelve
times more destructive among dram-drinkers than among the temper-
ate classes ; rich or poor, young or old, abstainers are only centesimated
by diseases that decimate drunkards. On no other point is the testi-
mony of physicians of all schools, all times, and all countries, more con-
sistent and unanimous.
Is alcohol a peptic stimulant ? No more than Glauber's-salt or
castor-oil. The system hastens to rid itself of the noxious substance,
the bowels are thrown into a state of morbid activity only to relapse
into a morbid inactivity. The effect of every laxative is followed by
a stringent reaction, and the habitual use of peptic stimulants leads to
a chronic constipation which yields only to purgatives of the most
virulent kind.
Does alcohol impart strength ? Does it benefit the exhausted sys-
tem ? If a worn-out horse drops on the highway, we can rouse it by
sticking a knife into its ribs, but, after staggering ahead for a couple
of minutes, it will drop again, and the second deliquium will be worse
than the first by just as much as the brutal stimulus has still further
exhausted the little remaining strength. In the same way precisely
alcohol rallies the exhausted energies of the human body. The pros-
trate vitality rises against the foe, and labors with restless energy till
the poison is expelled. Then comes the reaction, and, before the pa-
tient can recover, his organism has to do double work. Nature has to
overcome both the original cause of the disease and the effect of the
stimulant.
Alcohol has no remedial value. But that would be a trifle, if it
were not for the positive mischief which the wretched poison is liable,
and very liable, to cause. Four repetitions of the stimulant-dose may
VOL. XXIII. — 49
