io8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cise of the whole system, I may glance at the lessons to be gathered
from the experience of exploring expeditions in unhealthy countries.
The first to succumb are porters, guides, muleteers, private soldiers
and sailors, etc. Next come military and naval officers, while the doc-
tor, the botanist, the geologist, etc., hold out to the last, their sole ad-
vantage being a more thorough exercise of the whole system, muscle
and brain alike.
Dr. Beard gives another reason for the longevity of the clergy —
their comparative freedom from anxiety. This is the critical point to
decide whether brain-work shall be healthful or harmful. Let a man
work knowing that his livelihood is secure — that it is indifferent whether
he completes any given task this month or this time six months — and
no amount of study will harm him. But tell him that he must com-
plete some task by a given date under penalty of dismissal, or that his
prospects in life depend on his passing an examination better than a
score of competitors, and the probability is that his studies will bring
on softening of the brain, heart-diseases, or perhaps Bright's disease.
Dr. Beard formally admits that " worry is the one great shortener
of life under civilization, and, of all forms of woriy, financial is the
most frequent and the most distressing." Hence the differences be-
tween his views and mine are very much smoothed over, and we must
take in a " Pickwickian sense " his declaration elsewhere that " brain-
work is the highest of all antidotes to worry."
He brings forward yet another reason for the longevity of clergy-
men — " their superior temperance and morality." That such superi-
ority, if it exists, will have an influence in favor of health and long
life, I readily admit. But it is very doubtful whether they are in this
respect superior to other brain-workers. In the career of the scientist
mutinous passions- are simply crowded out. For him the struggles
with temptation, of which the ethicists tell us, have simply no exist-
ence. How it may be among those brain- workers who move in a more
emotional sphere, I can not presume to say.
Dr. Beard's contention that the brain-worker is, as a class, happier
than the muscle-worker, is very questionable. He asks : " Where is the
hod-carrier that finds joy in going up and down a ladder ; and, from
the foundation of the world until now, how many have been known to
persevere in ditch-digging or sewer-laying, or in any mechanical or
manual calling whatsoever, after the attainment of independence ? "
Such persons, I think, might be found. Many of these manual occu-
pations would, as far as I can judge, seem happier than a life spent at
the merchant's desk or at the exchange. If the man of business " con-
tinues to work in his special calling long after the necessity has ceased,"
it is because he has been trained to believe that accumulation of wealth
is the whole duty of man. " Nearly all the money of the world," says
Dr. Beard, "is in the hands of brain- workers." This maybe true;
yet, at the same time, many of the hardest and most capable brain-
