SKETCH OF PROFESSOR RICHARD OWEN, F.R.S. in
1845 appeared his " Odontography," a very important work, founded
on microscopic examinations, containing descriptions and drawings of
the structure of the teeth of every class of animals. His " Lectures
on Comparative Anatomy and Physiology" were published between
1843 and 1846. His great work on the "Archetype and Homologies
of the Vertebrate Skeleton " was the fruit of twenty-one years of study
of the subject, and presented a revision of Cuvier's conclusions in the
direction of recognizing a greater conformity to type than his illus-
trious predecessor had been willing to admit. In forwai'ding a copy
of this work to Professor Silliman, of Yale College, Professor Owen
wrote, in 1846 : " You may remember the condition in which this phil-
osophical department of anatomy was left by the great Cuvier and
Geoffroy, and the discussions which unhappily tended to sever those
estimable men in the latter period of their lives. The result was the
formation of two schools, or parties, in the French world of anatomy,
and subsequently the facts and arguments bearing upon these tran-
scendental questions have been viewed in Paris through the prism of
such party feeling. The chief and most cherished labor and reflec-
tions of many past years have been devoted by me to the acquisition
of such truth as might lie at the bottom of the well into which this
philosophy of anatomy seemed to have sunk after the departure of the
great luminaries of the Jardin des Plantes."
In this work, and' one on " The Nature of Limbs," that appeared
after it. Professor Owen developed the idea of Oken, that the typical
form of development in the higher mammals is the vertebra. In
another work, " On Parthenogenesis," he introduced a term, which has
since come into general use, to describe a most curious and interesting
phenomenon in reproduction.
A very important division of Professor Owen's investigations is his
work relating to the apteryx, and other fossil gigantic birds of New
Zealand, concerning which he presented numerous carefully elaborated
papers to the Royal and Zoological Societies. The successful restora-
tion of one of these birds, from the few parts first found, was regarded
by him as affording a vindication of Cuvier's principle, that the entire
animal may be reconstructed from a single bone, or articular facet of a
bone. By other applications of this principle to more or less complete
fossil remains he was able to restore many remarkable forms of extinct
animals from the fossil fragments brought home by Darwin from South
America. He carried on valuable studies on the sloths from the same
region, among which was the mylodon, and described the gigantic ex-
tinct marsupials of Australia. Turning his attention to the fossil beds
at home, he published memoirs on the chelonia of the Purbeck lime-
stones and Wealden clays, and the reptiles of the London clay and the
cretaceous formations, and a monograph of the British fossil mammalia.
Among his later studies in the field of fossil anatomy is his reconstruc-
tion of the curious long-tailed bird from Solenhofen, the Archeopteryx.
