ii6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nothing novels, and women who want cheap
books have to read them, because the men
who print books dont want women to get
a higher education, they really dont, and
so they just flood the country with books
that women have to read, because they
cant get into the public liberaries, and aint
allowed to buy books by Spensur and oth-
er learned people. Its just a conspiracy,
Cousin Ralph says, to keep women down.
I think its a great shame, dont you. Ma.
But Suse and me mean to see if we cant
get a first class education somehow. More
next time, from
Your affectionate daghter,
Molly.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
GREEK AND LATIN AGAINST NATURE
AND SCIENCE.
-T\T-OTWITHSTANDING all the ef-
-LN forts to reconcile and bring into
harmony these great elements of educa-
tion, it must be admitted that the antag-
onism stands out to-day more decisive
than ever before. All the tendencies
concur to sharpen and intensify it. In
the light of the Baconian conception that
" man is the interpreter of Xature, and
Science its right interpretation," natu-
ral knowledge is rapidly extending and
vindicating its increasing claims upon
the mental cultivation of the age. But
the capacities of acquisition on the part
of youth remain limited ; life is short,
the period of study shorter, and the
competition of subjects has forced more
urgently than ever the necessity of
choosing what shall be adopted as
means of education and what passed
by. Meantime the traditional culture
fights every inch of the ground, will
concede nothing, and redoubles its ef-
forts for extension at every opportunity.
The colleges raise their standards of
the amount of Latin and Greek required
for admission, and thus react upon the
preparatory schools to stimulate classi-
cal studies and give them a higher place
in popular consideration. There is, be-
sides, a vigorous and wide-spread move-
ment in behalf of what is called the
" higher education of woman," which
simply means the traditional ideal of
culture. The female colleges are proud
to duplicate the curriculums of the old
classical establishments, and boast that
thej do not lower the standard of Latin
and Greek. The boys have had a Latin
school in Boston for two hundred and
fifty years, to prepare for college ; and
the girls of that city, after failing to
get into the old one, have established
another within the past five years, which
is said to be most flourishing and suc-
cessful : rivalry and conflict are therefore
inevitable, and our age has before it the
broad issue between Latin and Greek
on the one hand, and Nature and Science
on the other hand, as means of cultivat-
ing the youthful mind.
The classical education is old, estab-
lished, and invested with historic digni-
ty, and as a consequence it is imperious
and arrogant. That it has gone on for
many centuries, is ofiered as its best
reason why it should always go on.
That there has been a progress in knowl-
edge and in the human mind which
has brought about a new order of things
is ignored by it as of no significance.
Nature and Science are regarded by it
as mere upstarts of yesterday, full of
vain pretension, and deserving only to
be snubbed and thrust contemptuously
aside. The last expression which we
have seen of studied disparagement of
Nature and Science in connection with
education is an article by Mr. E. K. Sill,
that appeared in the "Atlantic Monthly "
for February, on " Herbert Spencer's
Theory of Education." Mr. Spencer's
little book upon that subject, as is well
known, is a plea for more of nature and
of science in our methods of mental cul-
tivation, and Mr. Sill's article is a pro-
test against this whole doctrine. He
comes forward as a partisan of the old
