EDITOR'S TABLE.
117
classical education, as opposed to the
modern study of nature by the method
of science. Exactly what he means by
"Nature" does not so plainly appear,
but by his instincts as a classicist, alive
to the present emergencies, he is " down
upon it " whatever it be — witness the
following passage :
For what is this " Nature " (with a capital
N) which figures so largely as a final arbiter
in the enthusiastic eulogies of Science (with
a capital S) ? Does this Nature include man
and his operations, or does it not? If it does,
then these very interferences are also a part
of Nature. And certainly the human part of
Nature has as good a claim to be the arbiter
as any other part. But if it does not include
man, and is merely a name for the forces and
processes of the world outside of the human
world, then we may safely assert our right to
come down upon this Nature, and mold and
control it according to our needs. Or if, to
take a third supposition, this capital-lettered
Nature is meant to include man only in his
" natural" condition — the wild man so called,
the savage, the animal — then surely the very
effort of all civilization, and of education as
its chief instrument, is to oppose, and whip
in, and convert, and take conmaand of tlaese
untamed forces of Nature, that we may de-
velop the savage into the higher human being.
Now, the nature about which Mr.
Sill is here so dubious, and of which he
seems to be so jealous, is by no means a
difficult thing to define and understand.
For the purpose here in view it is the
order of things in which man is placed,
of which he is a part, and of which it
is his highest intellectual prerogative to
be the interpreter. And it is to be re-
membered that " this Nature " is some-
thing which had no existence in that
golden age of classical antiquity which
gave origin to those literatures still
claimed to be best for the cultivation
of the human mind.
It is sufficiently obvious that rela-
tively to man what nature is depends
upon what he is. To him who is igno-
rant of it, nature is one thing ; to him
who understands it, nature is another
and a very different thing. How the
savage regards the world, we need not
here inquire, but it is desirable to know
how it was possible to regard it after
human culture had become greatly ad-
vanced.
Man did not begin his mental career
by the study of nature. The earlier
forms of mental cultivation were liter-
ary. The Greeks and Romans developed
poets, dramatists, orators, historians,
critics, and artists of fine accomplish-
ments while yet nothing was known of
nature. The external aspects of things
were described with great fidelity, but
the view was sentimental, poetic, and
superficial. Into the secrets of nature
at that time men could not penetrate,
its course they could not explain, its
order they could not conceive. They
had no clew to the interpretation of
even its simplest phenomena. They
could look, but they could not observe ;
they could construct, but they could
not experiment ; they could guess, but
they could not verify ; they could spec-
ulate, but they could not create positive
knowledge. There is much of interest,
art, and beauty in the literatures of
Greece and Rome that has been a
source of pleasure to all succeeding
times; but these proficiencies brought
no capacity to explore and understand
the surrounding world. In all the
thinking, therefore, of the classical
ages, nature was simply left out.
But this was not always to continue.
The earlier and lower forms of mental
efi"ort gave a preparation for prof ounder
work. Yet it was only in modern times
that men began to learn how properly
to inquire, and to prize the truth that
results from inquiry. After much va-
grant exertion, and a long and painful
apprenticeship in the processes of in-
vestigation, science began to take defi-
nite form as a higher manifestation
of intellectual power. Humanity had
grown to a new function. The art of
questioning Nature through observation
and experiment was slowly perfected ;
the facts arrived at were classified and
inductive truths established, and there
