122
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
If, througli ease, self-indulgence, and luxury,
through curiosity of learning, through self-
esteem and ambitious rivalry of man, a wom-
an becomes disloyal to the home-idea, and
despises it in her heart, she is, though per-
haps uuaware of the fact, helping othei-s to
upset the social order.
These weighty words express the
central, illuminating, and all-control-
ling conception of the Lenten lectures.
It may be that Dr. Dis could not get a
patent on these ideas for their novelty,
but ai-e they the views which, as the
'■ Post " alleges, have been employed to
resist the elevation of woman in all
times ? And what is there in them, ex-
pressed or implied, that can be con-
strued as unfavorable to female eleva-
tion ? Dr. Dix is no opponent of the
improvement of woman by education ;
he only lays down the conditions on
which all education which can really
elevate her must depend. His views
may not be new, but they have an ur-
gent application to the tendencies of
the present time. The prime postulates
of all his reasoning are that woman is
a different being from man, and has a
different sphere from man, and, if she
is to be educated in accordance with the
requirements of her nature and posi-
tion, she must have a different culture
from that of man. His telling strict-
ures are accordingly leveled against the
wide - spread demand of the present
time, that woman shall gain access to
the men's colleges that they may ob-
tain the "higher education" of men,
and thus adapt themselves to the sphere
and pursuits of men. Dr. Dix main-
tains that this would inevitably be sub-
versive of the home - feeling ; and he
charges that the aspirants for wider
careers have become restive under the
restraints and obligations of their sex,
and are cherishing ambitions which lead
to a general neglect of home-life, and
that will only confirm and strengthen
the sentiment of disloyalty to the
home. The " Evening Post " charac-
terizes these views as a " bold defiance
of the soundest, most enlightened,
most religious, most conscientious judg-
ment of the day in all lands, on the con-
dition and needs of female education."
But is Dr. Dix really so far wrong
as this extravagant language implies?
"We have not so read the signs of the
times. If there is one thing that per-
vades and characterizes what is called
the "woman's movement," it is the
spirit of revolt against the home, and
the determination to escape from it
into the outer spheres of activity that
will bring her into direct and open
competition with men. In all the talk
about female "higher education," and
in all the new plans for its extension,
it is notorious. that distinctive home in-
terests find no place. The literature of
the woman's movement is saturated
with denunciations of the vulgarity,
drudgery, and slavery of life in the do-
mestic sphere; and the "higher edu-
cation " proposed is not an attempt to
ameliorate, redeem, and exalt it, but
a rebellion against it. The education
that prepares for the home, that would
awaken interest in it, give dignity to
it, and transform it, is simply scouted.
That the feminine nature is different
from the masculine nature — different
throughout, physically, intellectually,
emotionally ; that woman's claims, her
duties, and her destiny, are profoundly
different from those of men, and that
her culture should have relation to the
requirements of her nature — is derided
by all the leaders of the present cru-
sade to get women into the men's col-
leges.
The fundamental law of educational
progress is differentiation of the mental
activities, division of labor. In accord-
ance with this law, we have classical
colleges, medical colleges, law colleges,
engineering colleges, agricultural col-
leges, dental colleges, and veterinary
colleges, all different in the knowl-
edge they impart and the preparation
they give for the work of active life.
And we have also female colleges —
J
