LITERARY NOTICES.
123
Vassar, Cornell, Smith, "Wellesley — all
distinguished by a violation of this
fundamental law of progressive educa-
tion. They are all imitations of the
old classical establishments, and their
pride is in the perfection of the imita-
tion. It is their boast, if not, indeed,
the first condition of their endowment,
that the feminine nature has no recog-
nition either in their objects or grades
of study.
If there is one female college in the
land which is devoted to the cultivation
of woman as an intelligent being for
the discharge of her responsibilities in
domestic life — which qualifies her for
it, as the medical college qualifies the
yjhysician for his practice — we have not
heard of its existence. It is a conse-
quence of the rapid diffusion of educa-
tion that the traditional methods ot
instruction are enormously extended,
while existing institutions and current
educational literature combine to give
omnipresent influence and irresistible
strength to distinctively masculine
thought — that is, thought mainly per-
taining to masculine spheres of action.
The whole force of tliese ideas is
brought to bear to kindle in woman
ambitions of study in aU these direc-
tions. Thus influenced, she wants to
go into politics, law, medicine, art,
literature, philanthropy, religion ; and,
thus influenced, she is drawn away from
the home sphere, despises it for its vul-
garity, and hates it as a clog and drag
upon all her noblest aspirations.
Let it be emphasized, then, that those
who oppose the entrance of women into
the colleges that have grown up to meet
the distinctive requirements of men are
not, therefore, opposed to the better or
liigher education of woman. But that
only is " higher education " for woman
which perfects her nature, capacities,
and requirements. Dr. Dix's view of
the import of the home in civilization,
its vital and ruling place in the so-
cial order, we believe to be profoundly
true, and that it must be taken as the
starting - point of all substantial im-
provement and higher cultivation of the
female sex. Let women have their own
colleges, that shall be neither copies nor
appendages of men's colleges, and that
shall confer a culture comprehensive,
refined, and practical, but with supreme
reference to a higher preparation for
administering home aff'airs intelligently,
and thus in the most efiicient way ele-
vating the standard of social life. "When
they ask for this education, there will
be no opposition, and there will be
plenty of means to secure it.
It was inadvertently stated, in notic-
ing " The Gospel of the Stars " last
month, that its author. Rev. Joseph A.
Seiss, was a clergyman of the Episcopal
Church. This turns out to be a mistake,
and is resented as an imputation upon
that highly respectable body, if we may
judge by the number of letters we have
received, denying the statement, with
varying comments, and declaring that
Dr. Seiss belongs to the Lutheran com-
munion, which must be held responsi-
ble for him.
In the article " Speculations on the
Nature of Matter " (" Popular Science
Monthly " for April), the following
corrections should be made : On page
798, eighth line from the top, it should
read, " namely, the inverse squares of
the distance without the sphere, and di-
rectly as the distance within it." And,
on line 27th of the same page, it should
read " directly as the distance."
LITERARY NOTICES.
INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC SERIES.
No. XLIV.
Animal Intelligence. By George J. Ro-
manes, LL. D., F. R. S. New York : D.
Appleton & Co. Pp. 520. Price, $1.75.
The author of this work has come prom-
inently forward within the last few years as
an able cuhivator of the science of compara-
tive psychology, and the treatise he has now
