126
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
has been indirect, and the result of the hab-
its of thought engendered strictly within the
physical sphere. Yet so considerable has
been the impression made upon these sub-
jects in this direction, that it is much more
common now than it formerly was to speak
of the science of philology and the science
of history.
In the case of history, other influences,
no doubt, have come into play to modify it,
j-et the reaction of the scientific method is
seen in the more rigorous scrutiny of his-
toric evidence, in the clearer conception of
a natural order in human society, and in
the greater importance assigned to the en-
vironing conditions of nature. But besides
this it has been the effect of science to com-
pel a closer attention to and a higher esti-
mate of elements formerly neglected or
overlooked. Science has thus concurred
with the general advance of democratic
ideas in giving greater consideration to the
character and interests of the common peo-
ple. Macaulay was no scientist, but he was
a man of sufficient breadth and sagacity to
discern the unmistakable tendencies of mod-
ern thought to obliterate the old factitious
distinctions between the dignified and the
vulgar in historic exposition. Down to the
time of this writer, history remained very
much what it had always been, a chronicle
of the doings of kings, commanders, diplo-
matists, and the ruling classes of society. He
made an epoch in historic literature by first
systematically taking the people into ac-
count in his delineation of the progress of
historical events. His example has been
inevitably followed by other authors, so
that a new quality, so to speak, has been
given to recent historic works. Mr. McMas-
ter's book has been written from a thorough
appreciation of the later point of view. It
is a history, and the first yet attempted, of
the people of the United States. It is said
it is an imitation of Macaulay ; but it is
high praise to recognize it as a successful
imitation of his method in a new field.
It is not, however, to be supposed that
Mr. McMaster has ignored the political as-
pect of the history of the country, or neg-
lected the eminent political characters that
have figured in American affairs. No ac-
count of the American people would be at
all sufficient that did not give prominence
to their relations to government. The citi-
zens of the United States have always been
participants in the political activity of the
country ; more so, indeed, than has been the
case in any other nation. The work before
us is, therefore, necessarily to a large ex-
tent a political history, and in the first vol-
ume, now issued, we have an interesting
survey of the movements of the various
communities which were at length fused into
a national unity by the adoption of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
Yet that which distinguishes the work is
the detailed delineation of those various so-
cial conditions, characteristics, and habits
of the common people, which are both of
intrinsic importance in themselves and in-
dispensable to the understanding of the
course of political action. The pictures of
the social life of the people at the close of
the Revolution, in the various modifications
it manifested in different localities, are most
instructive. The accounts of the morals
and manners, education and religion, pro-
fessions and industries, the diet and dress
of the people, their ideas and prejudices,
the conflicts of sects and parties, the condi-
tion of cities, and the particulars of country
life, in short, all the circumstances by which
the complexion of society was affected, are
described with a freshness of illustration
which shows the most indefatigable and ex-
tended research into all available sources of
information upon the subject.
This characteristic alone would give a
fascinating interest to Mr. McMaster's vol-
ume, but that interest is greatly enhanced
by the clearness, directness, simple earnest-
ness, and often the eloquenoe of his style.
This history is emphatically a book for the
people, not only in the import and adapta-
tion of its subject-matter, but in its thor-
oughly popular literary form. It is a book
to please everybody. History here descends
from its rhetorical stilts, and uses the plain
vernacular of common sense, without abat-
ing a jot of its attractiveness. There is no
fine writing, no straining after effect, be-
cause the interest of the topics is abun-
dantly sufficient to maintain the reader's
attention. We congratulate the author on
the success of his undertaking, and all his
readers on the pleasure they will have in
perusing his book.
