LITERARY NOTICES.
127
Pharmacectische Rundschau. (Pharma-
ceutical Review.) Published by Dr. Fr.
Hoffmann, 64 Ann Street, New York.
Monthly. Pp. 24. $2 a year.
This new publication, conducted by a
gentleman of the best standing in his pro-
fession, starts out with the promise of being
a journal of a high order and a valuable ad-
dition to the literature of scientific special-
ties. It is devoted to the scientific and pro-
fessional interests of pharmacy and kindred
branches in the United States, and labors
with well-directed vigor in every depart-
ment for the maintenance and elevation of
the standard of scientific attainment in its
profession. The February number contains
editorial articles on " Pharmacy and Public
Sanitary Conditions," and "Pharmacy and
Homoeopathy." In the March number the ed-
itor, under the heading " Kurpf uscherei ? " —
which we might translate "Cure-bungling"
— presents a well-considered and well-tem-
pered discussion of the propriety of allow-
ing apothecaries to dispense medicines, and
of requiring them to qualify themselves to do
so with discretion. The two numbers con-
tain original contributions on the testing of
liquorice-juice and of quinine-pills, sorghum-
sugar, mass-analysis, the " Pharmacopoeia of
the United States," and the preparation of
medicinal doses by compression. A consid.
erable part of each number is occupied with
the systematic presentation in a compressed
form of notable facts in the progress of the
science as currently recorded in the various
journals of this and other countries, and to
the proceedings of pharmaceutical societies
and associations.
Whence, What, Where ? A View of the
Origin, Nature, and Destiny of Man.
By James R. Nichols, M. D., A. M., Edit-
or of " The Boston Journal of Chem-
istry." Third edition, revised. Boston :
A. Williams & Co. Pp. 198. Price, SI-
This thoughtful volume consists of incul-
cations, reflections, and speculations touch-
ing those questions of the origin, nature,
and destiny of man that have ever been re-
garded as of transcendent interest. How
man has originated, what is the true con-
stitution of his being, and how he stands
related to the great indefinite future, are
inquiries that, on the one hand, find simple
answers in the beliefs of uninstructed people.
and which, on the other hand, have tasked
the highest philosophy of all ages, with no
final agreement. But, although there re-
mains, perhaps, as much conflict as ever over
these problems, it would be wrong to say
that the outcome of inquiry in all these di-
rections has been futile. Certainly, as re-
gards the whence and the what of humanity,
a great deal is now known of which men
in earlier times were profoundly ignorant.
Man's nature — that is, the laws of his con-
stitution — has been studied with fruitful re-
sults, and the laws and the knowledge thus
obtained have thrown a not entirely uncer-
tain light upon the question of his origin.
Of one thing we have positive assurance :
the order of phenomenal nature, of which
man is a part, is no inscrutable secret ; it is
open to the research of reason, and it is
capable of being understood as far as the
nature of human intelligence will permit.
The field is, therefore, open in which we
may verify and extend the inquiries already
begun in regard to what man essentially is
and whence he has originated — the field of
orderly, phenomenal, explorable nature.
But there are those — and they are pos-
sibly more numerous in these days than ever
before — who maintain that man is shut into
the present sphere by inexorable limits, and
that, while he i-emains the being he is, he can
never know that which is beyond the cosmic-
al sphere of his observation and experience.
They hold that this human intelligence is
finite, and therefore by its quality is re-
stricted to finite things, and can never grasp
what is beyond the finite. They claim that,
in its very essence, knowing is but a recog-
nition of finite relations ; that mind itself
has been evolved and constituted by inter-
course with nature, and is without capaci-
ties to deal with any other sphere of being.
They insist that, as the human mind is finite
and limited, it must stop somewhere by
virtue of inherent incapacity, and that this
boundary is the phenomenal sphere of be-
ing. That there may be other orders of
being, and other universes beyond, they do
not deny ; but they say that our relations
to them can never include a knowledge of
them In the sense in which the term knowl-
edge is applied to the surrounding order of
things.
But the protest against this circumscrip-
