128
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tion of the human mind is ancient, univer-
sal, and very deep in human nature. It is
held that man has as much right to be
measured by his aspirations as by any other
of his psychical traits, and that he has
reaches of intuition and inspirations of in-
sight that will not be hemmed in by his
transient experiences of time and space.
They say he has a bodily organism by which
he is confined to a very narrow area upon
the little planet which he inhabits, but that,
nevertheless, in virtue of his higher capaci-
ties, he makes himself at home in a universe
of which he can nowhere find the limit,
and they hold that this fact gives high as-
surance that there may be still vaster possi-
bilities and extensions in the ever-unfolding
future.
The author of the little book before us
belongs to this class which refuse to be
shut in by the material limitations of the
surrounding world. While admitting that
science is phenomenally circumscribed, they
hold that the unknown may not be exhausted
by its methods. The book is a quiet but
earnest presentation of the considerations
which, in the mind of the writer, are suffi-
cient to justify a steadfast faith in man's
immortal future. It is impossible here to
give any synopsis of the course of Dr.
Nichols's reasoning ; but those who are in-
terested in its line of thought will find that
its arguments are ingenious and instructive,
and by many they will undoubtedly be re-
garded as cogent and valid. But they are
not put forward in any dogmatic spirit.
They aim simply to be suggestive and help-
ful, and from this point of view there are
multitudes who will find them satisfactory.
Bulletin of the Arch^ological Insti-
tute OF America. I. January, 1883.
E. H. Greenleaf, Secretary. Boston : A.
Williams & Co. Pp. 40.
The work of the Institute was carried on
at the ancient Greek city of Assos, in Asia
Minor, during the spring, summer, and au-
tumn of 1882, with fruitful and interesting
results. The explorations, not yet com-
pleted, will be continued during the present
year, till the expiration of the permission
which has been accorded by the Turkish
Government. It is probable, the report
states, that, when all is done, " the remains
at Assos will not only present the most per-
fect idea of a Greek city that is anywhere
to be obtained, but will afford a better in-
sight into the life of an antique city than
is to be gained even from the streets and
houses of Pompeii." Mr. Ad. F. Bandelier
presents an interesting summary of his work
in New Mexico, chiefly among the ruined
pueblos, and outlines the plan of a journey
of archaeological exploration which he is
now making through the comparatively un-
explored regions of the Mexican border.
On the Loess and Associated Deposits
OF Des Moines. By W. J. McGee, of
Farley, Iowa, and R. Ellsworth Call,
of Des Moines, Iowa. New Ilaven, Con-
necticut : Tuttlc, Morehouse & Taylor,
Printers. Pp. 24.
We have here a careful study in local
geology and physical geography, from which
interesting conclusions are drawn respecting
the contour of the glacial terminal moraine
and the conditions under which the drift-
deposits were accumulated in the region of
Des Moines. The peculiar fact is brought
out that the rivers in this region have avoid-
ed low-lying plains and sought elevated pla-
teaus and ridges of both sedimentary rocks
and quaternary deposits, and that their gen-
eral course is at right angles to the mean
slope of the surface which they drain.
"Papilio." a Monthly Journal, devoted
solely to Lepidoptera. Henry Edwards,
Editor, 185 East 116th Street, New York.
Price, $2 a year.
The publication of this journal has now
been continued for over two years, the first
number having appeared in January, 1881.
During this time it has contained articles
upon the insects within its scope, by the
most distinguished entomologists in Europe
and the United States. The two volumes
that have been completed contain, together,
about 430 pages of matter and six colored
lithographs, besides several woodcuts of in-
terest. As occurs in the early career of
most natural history publications, this mag-
azine has entailed upon its projectors a
heavy loss. But they are still full of hope,
and urgently ask of all who recognize the
importance of such a publication, that such
help as can be afforded may be freely given,
in order that so excellent a labor may not
