LITERARY I^'-QTICES.
131
" Journal of Social Science," containing
THE Transactions of the American
Association, December, 1882. Sara-
toga Papers of 1882. Boston: A.Wil-
liams & Co. New York: G. P. Put-
nam's Sons. Pp. 164. §1.
The present number of the " Journal "
contains, besides the opening address of
the President of the Association, Professor
Francis Wayland, and the report of the
General Secretary, the papers read at the
meeting in the Health and the Social Econ-
omy Departments. Among the papers in
the former department we notice especially
those of Dr. Ezra M. Hunt, on " The Health
Care of Households, with Especial Refer-
ence to House Drainage" ; of Dr. D. F. Lin-
coln, on " The Health of Boys' Boarding-
Schools " ; of Dr. E. M. Mosher, on " The
Health of Criminal Women " ; and of Dr.
A. N. Blodgett, on " The Management of
Chronic Inebriates and Insane Drunkards."
Two papers in the Social Econorqy Depart-
ment, those of Mrs. Robinson on "Early
Factory Life in Xew England " and Lucy
Larcom on " American Factory Life," de-
pict a condition of life and intelligence
among factory-operatives, and relations be-
tween employers and employed, which Amer-
icans were once proud of, and foreigners
admired, but which have now — thanks
largely to the protective policy — become
things of the past, and which we can hardly
hope to enjoy again.
On the Value of the " Nearctic," as one
OF the Primary Zoological Regions.
By Professor Angelo Ueilfrin, Phila-
delphia. Pp. 20.
The "Nearctic," in Messrs. Sclater and
Wallace's classification, corresponds with
the North American zoological region, as
distinguished from the Palsearctic or Eur-
Asian, and the Neotropical, or South Amer-
ican, regions. The question under discus-
sion is " whether the Nearctic region should
be kept separate, or whether it should form
part of the Pala3arctic or of the Neotropical
regions." Eminent authorities differ on
the subject. Professor Heilprin makes an
examination, by families, genera, and spe-
cies, of the mammalia, birds, reptiles, and
partially the butterflies and mollusca of
the three regions, inquiring how many of
each are common to the Nearctic and one
of the two others, and to which of the two ;
and concludes "that, by the community of
its mammalian, batrachian, and reptilian
characters, the Nearctic fauna ... is shown
to be of a distinctively Old World type, and
to be indissolubly linked to the Palsearctic
(of which it forms only a lateral extension)."
The conclusion is further illustrated by the
mollusca and the butterflies.
Department of Agricxtltcre : Report of
the Entomologist for the Year end-
ing June 30, 1882. By Charles V.
Riley, M. A., Ph. D. Washington : Gov-
ernment Printing-Office. Pp. 168, with
Twenty Plates.
The present report, which necessarily
covers only a small part of the work actu-
ally done in the entomologist's ofiice, is de-
voted to some of the more important obser-
vations and experiments of a practical na-
ture on such subjects as the cultivation of
pyrethrum and its use as an insecticide,
silk-culture, the cotton-worm, the chinch-
bug, the army-worm, the insects affecting
the orange and those affecting rice, some
new depredators on com, and various mis-
cellaneous insects that attracted more than
usual attention during the year. The large
number of letters, asking for information,
received at the ofiice, has led to the prepara-
tion of bulletins on special subjects to be
sent out. Such bulletins are ready on the
Northern army-worm, the boll- or corn-worm,
and canker-worms, and others are in prepa-
ration on cabbage-insects and the chinch-
bug. Three special reports, which will be
more bulky, are in preparation — a bibliog-
raphy of economic entomology, and reports
on the insects affecting the orange-tree, and
forest-tree insects.
Bulletin of the Buffalo Naturalists'
Field Club. Vol. I. Nos. 1 and 2.
Charles Linden, President ; George S.
Wardwell, Corresponding Secretary.
Buffalo, N. Y. : W. W. Hicks, Printer.
Bimonthly. Pp. 48. Price, $1 a year.
The club was organized in 1880, and has
shown great vitality and enlisted much in-
terest. Being in a condition to establish a
periodical of its own, and that seeming de-
sirable, it has originated the " Bulletin," the
plan of which is to publish brief summaries
of general papers read at the winter meet-
ings of the club, short original papers, or
