LITERARY NOTICES.
133
would desire, but deems it best to give the
results tentatively, concludes that the work
was intended chiefly as a ritual or religious
calendar, to guide the priests in the observ-
ance of religious festivals, in their ceremo-
nies, and in other duties ; that the figures in
the spaces are symbolical or pictographs,
and refer to religious ceremonies or to the
habits, customs, and occupations of the peo-
ple ; that the work appertained to an inland,
peaceable, and sedentary people ; and that
the original of it was written in about the
middle or latter half of the fourteenth cen-
tury. Dr. Brinton gives, in his introduction,
a summary of what is known respecting the
Maya language and writings, which, it
must be borne in mind, are quite distinct
from those of the Aztecs. Two other Maya
manuscripts have been published in chro-
mo-lithography, but no attempt appears to
have been made to decipher them, and sev-
eral are believed to exist in private hands.
In addition to the manuscripts, we have the
mural paintings and inscriptions of Palen-
que, Copan, Chichen Itza, and other ruined
cities, of the same general character. The
use of the Maya mode of writing ceased af-
ter the Spanish conquest, on account of the
intolerance of the priests, but many books
were written by natives in their own lan-
guage with the Spanish alphabet, a number
of which still exist.
The Elements of Forestry. By Franklix
B. Hough, Ph. D., Chief of Forestry Di-
vision, United States Department of
Agriculture. Cincinnati : Robert Clarke
& Co. Pp. 381. With numerous Illus-
trations. Price, $2.
This work is designed to afford informa-
tion concerning the planting and care of
forest-trees for ornament or profit, and to
give suggestions upon the creation and care
of woodlands, with the view of securing the
greatest benefit for the longest time ; and
is particularly adapted to the wants and
conditions of the United States. The au-
thor believes it to be the first attempt to
present, in our language, and in one vol-
ume, the subject of forestry in the compre-
hensive sense in which he has defined it.
He has endeavored to adapt the work to
the wants of students of the subject, whether
they be in the class-rooms of an institution,
or engaged in practical labors, and to pre-
sent information applicable to our own
coimtry, and to those regions where tree-
planting is most needed, and often most
diflScult. The matter of the treatise has
been admirably condensed, so that the vol-
imae is made to contain an amount of infor-
mation, all of practical bearing and well
expressed, that might have been made to
fill two or three times the space without ap-
pearing " padded." Besides reviewing the
general principles of forest botany, forest-
ry, and the growth of trees in their various
aspects, it includes chapters on the repro-
duction of trees from seed, and by other
methods ; the best manner and systems of
planting ; special suggestions on ornamental
planting, and planting for hedges, screens,
and shelter-belts ; forest-fires, and protec-
tion from them, and from other sources of
injury; the ravages of insects; the profit
of forest cultivation ; the acts of Congress
in reference to timber-rights ; European
plans of forest management; the cutting
and seasoning of wood, defects in timber
and processes for increasing the durability
of timber and improving its quality; the
various products obtained from wood and
trees ; descriptions of particular species of
trees, their uses and adaptations ; with a
special chapter on the eonifers; and tree-
planting in Kansas and Nebraska — the
whole constituting a treatise at once scien-
tific and practical.
The American Journal of Forestry. Vol.
I. Kos. 1, 2, and 3, October, November,
and December, 1882. Edited by Frank-
lin B. Hough, Ph. D. Cincinnati : Rob-
ert Clarke & Co. Pp. 48 each. Price,
S2 a year.
This new publication is devoted to the
interests of forest-tree planting, the forma-
tion and care of woodlands and ornamental
plantations generally, and to the various
economies therein concerned, and comes
very appropriately when public attention is
called to the subject by a dozen different
influences and agencies. The present num-
bers are occupied to a considerable extent
with the proceedings of the American For.
estry Congress, at its Cincinnati and Mont*
real meetings, and publish some of the val-
uable papers that were read there. One of
the most noticeable papers is that of Mr.
Charles Mohr, of Mobile, Alabama, on tha
