134
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" Distribution of the more Important Forest-
Trees in the Gulf Region." The editor con-
tributes observations in forestry matters
made by him during a recent journey in
Europe; Professor Spalding, of Ann Ar-
bor, a paper on " Forestry in Michigan " ;
and Dr. Warder, of Ohio, accounts of ex-
perimental forest plantations in Iowa and
near Waukegan, Illinois.
The Scientific apo) Technical Reader.
London, Edinburgh, and New York :
T. Nelson & Sons. Pp. 400. Price,
25. 6d
The " Reader " is a compendium of brief
selections in different departments of sci-
ence, usually from standard authors, ar-
ranged so as to present a general order of
collection, and designed to instruct the
reader on the subjects discussed in an
agreeable manner. The selections are clas-
sified and arranged under the heads " Ge-
ographical," " Geological," " Botanical,''
"Zoological," "Physiological," "Physical,"
and " Technical."
Tables for the Use of Students and Be-
ginners IN Vegetable Histology. By
D. P. Penhallow, B. S. Boston : S. E.
Cassino. Pp.41. (With blank pages for
notes.)
This work was first conceived as an aid
to the author's own students in vegetable
histology. It has been prepared with the
aim to bring together the most prominent
facts and reactions of an elementary course
of histology in such a manner that the stu-
dent may have them on his work-table ready
for immediate and constant reference, and
may use them as a general guide. The work
being tentative, it has been deemed desirable
not to make it too extended till the plan has
been approved by qualified judges.
Transactions of the LiNNiEAN Society of
New York. Vol. I. New York: Pub-
lished by the Society. H. B. Bailey, Cor-
responding Secretary. Pp. 168. Price,
paper, $2 ; cloth, $3,
The Linnffian Society of New York was
formed in 1878, with eleven members, and
was organized with Clinton Hart Merriam
as president ; Harold Herrick as vice-pres-
ident ; and Ernest IngersoU as secretary.
Abstracts of its proceedings and various pa-
pers read before it have appeared in differ-
ent scientific serials, but it has felt the need
of a direct medium of publication. The
outgrowth of that need is the present vol-
ume, executed in the highest style of the
printer's art, with thick paper and wide
margins — a volume worthy of the objects
of the society, and of the valuable and inter-
esting papers which it contains. The papers
are : " The Vertebrates of the Adirondack
Region, Northeastern New York (General
Introduction — Mammalia ; Carnivora), by
Clinton Hart Merriam, M. D. ; " Is not the
Fish-Crow (^Corvus ossifragiis, Wilson) a
Winter as well as a Summer Resident at the
Northern Limit of its Range ? " by William
Dutcher ; and " A Review of the Summer
Birds of a Part of the Catskill Mountains,
with Prefatory Remarks on the Faunal and
Floral Features of the Region," by Eugene
P. Bicknell. The volume is adorned with a
steel-plate portrait of Linnaeus, from an old
engraving in the possession of Mr. L. S.
Foster, as a frontispiece.
Ansichten iJBER DIE Ursachen der Vul-
CANE (Opinions on the Causes of Vol-
canoes). Pp, 6. NePTCNISCH ODER
Plutonisch? (Neptunian or Pluton-
ian?) Pp. 14. Both by Ed. Reyer,
Vienna.
The first of these papers is a review of
the three theories — those of interior heat,
chemical action, and mechanical action — of
the origin of volcanoes, with a discussion
of the causes of eruptive phenomena and
outbreaks. The second essay considers the
relations of granite, porphyry, and lava, and
the origin of granite.
The Foundation Principle of Education
BY the State. By Samuel Barnett.
Boston : New England Publishing Com-
pany. Pp. 11.
This pamphlet includes the substance of
an address delivered before the joint session
of the National Teachers' Association and
the National Institute of Instruction at Sara-
toga, in July last. The purpose of the ad-
dress is to show the close connection between
the educational development of citizens and
the welfare of the State, and the interest the
State has in seeing that educational facili-
ties are provided and improved.
