80 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
we may specify its subprdinate classes thus : ' A verte-
brate animal is either a mammalian, bird, reptile, or
fish/ Nor is there any limit to the number of possible
alternatives. ' An exogenous plant is either a ranun-
culus, a poppy, a crucifer, a rose, or it belongs to some
one of the other seventy natural orders of exogens at
present recognised by botanists/ A cathedral church in
England must be either that of London, Canterbury,
Winchester, Salisbury, Manchester, or of one of about
twenty-four cities possessing such churches. And if we
were to attempt to specify the meaning of the term
' star/ we should require to enumerate as alternatives,
not only the many thousands of stars recorded in cata-
logues, but the many millions yet unnamed.
Whenever we thus distinguish the parts of a general
notion we employ a disjunctive proposition, in at least
one side of which are several alternatives joined by the
so called disjunctive conjunction or, a contracted form of
other. There must be some relation between the parts
thus connected in one proposition ; we may call it the
disjunctive or alternative relation, and we must carefully
inquire into its nature and results. This relation is that
of doubt and ignorance, giving rise to choice or uncer-
tainty. Whenever we classify and abstract we must open
the way to such uncertainty. By fixing our attention on
certain attributes to the exclusion of others we necessarily
leave it doubtful what those other attributes are. The
term * molar tooth ' bears upon the face of it that it is a
part of the wider term ' tooth/ But if we meet with the
simple term 'tooth' there is nothing to indicate whether it
is an incisor, a canine, or a molar tooth. This doubt,
however, may be resolved by other information, and we
have to consider what are the appropriate logical pro-
cesses for treating disjunctive propositions in connection
with other propositions disjunctive or otherwise.
