PREFACE.
I have, in fact, almost restricted myself to showing that"
all classification is fundamentally carried out upon the
principles of Formal Logic and the Logical Abecedarium
described at the outset.
In certain concluding remarks I have expressed the
conviction which the study of Logic has by degrees forced
upon my mind, that serious misconceptions are entertained
by some scientific men as to the logical value of our know-
ledge of nature. We have heard much of what has been
aptly called the Reign of Law, and the necessity and uni-
formity of natural forces has been not uncommonly inter-
preted as involving the non v existence of an intelligent and
benevolent Power, capable of interfering with the course
of natural events. Fears have been expressed that the
progress of Scientific Method must therefore result in dis-
sipating the fondest beliefs of the human heart. Even the
' Utility of Religion ' is seriously proposed as a subject of
discussion. It seemed to be not out of place in a work on
Scientific Method to allude to the ultimate results and
limits of that method. I fear that I have very imper-
fectly succeeded in expressing my strong conviction that
before a rigorous logical scrutiny the Reign of Law will
prove to be an unverified hypothesis, the Uniformity of
Nature an ambiguous expression, the certainty of our
scientific inferences to a great extent a delusion. The
value of science is of course very high, while the con-
clusions are kept well within the limits of the data on
wh;ch they are founded, but it is pointed " out that our
experience is of the most limited character compared with
what there is to learn, while our mental powers seem to
fell infinitely short of the task of comprehending and
explaining fully the nature of any one object. I draw the
conclusion that we must interpret the results of Scientific
Method in an affirmative sense only. Ours must be a
truly positive philosophy, not that false negative philo-
