124 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
qualitative reasoning, the syllogism was only by analogy
or simile called an Instrument. Swift satirically described
the Professors of Laputa as in possession of a thinking
machine, and in 1851 Mr. Alfred Smee actually proposed
the construction of a Kelational machine and a Differential
machine, the first of which would be a mechanical dic-
tionary and the second a mode of comparing ideas ; but
with these exceptions I have not yet met with so much
as a suggestion of a reasoning machine. It may be added
that Mr. Smee's designs, though highly ingenious, appear
impracticable, and in any case do not attempt the per-
formance of logical inference *.
The Logical Abacus soon suggested the notion of a
Logical Machine, which, after two unsuccessful attempts,
I succeeded in constructing in a comparatively simple and
effective form. The details of the Logical Machine have
been fully described by the aid of plates in the Phi-
losophical Transactions^ and it would be both tedious
and needless to repeat the account of the somewhat
intricate movements of the machine in this place.
The general appearance of the machine is shown in a
plate facing the title-page of this volume. It somewhat
resembles a very small upright piano or organ, and has
a keyboard containing twenty-one keys. These keys are
of two kinds, sixteen of them representing the terms or
letters A, a, B, b, 0, c, D, d, which have so often been
employed in our logical notation. When letters occur
on the left-hand side of a proposition, formerly called
the subject, each is represented by a key on the left-hand
half of the keyboard ; but when they occur on the right-
1 See his work called ' The Process of Thought adapted to Words and
Language, together with a description of the Relational and Differential
Machines.' Also 'Philosophical Transactions/ [1870] vol. 160, p. 518.
k 'Philosophical Transactions/ [1870] vol. 160, p. 497. 'Proceedings
of the Royal Society/ vol. xviii. p. 166, Jan. 20, 1870. 'Nature/ vol. i.
P- 343-
