170 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
1 . That we acquire a perfect knowledge of the compara-
tive numbers of balls of each kind within the box.
2. That the contents of the ballot-box remain unchanged.
Of the latter assumption, or rather that concerning the
constitution of the world which it illustrates, the logician
or physicist can have nothing to say. As the Creation of
the Universe is necessarily an act passing all experience
and all conception, so any change in that Creation, or, it
may be, a termination of it, must likewise be infinitely be-
yond the bounds of our mental faculties. No science, no
reasonii^ upon the subject, can have any validity ; for
without experience we are without the basis and materials
of knowledge. It is the fundamental postulate accordingly
of all inference concerning the future, that there shall be
no arbitrary change in the subject of inference ; of the pro-
bability or improbability of such a change I conceive that
our faculties can give no estimate.
The other condition of inductive inference that we
acquire an approximately complete knowledge of the
combinations in which events do occur, is at least in some
degree within the bounds of our perceptive and mental
powers. There are many branches of science in which
phenomena seem to be governed by conditions of a most
fixed and general character. We have much ground in 4
such cases for believing that the future occurrence of
such phenomena may be calculated and predicted. But
the whole question now becomes one of probability and
improbability. We leave the region of pure logic to enter
one in which the number of events is the ground of
inference. We do not leave the region of logic ; we only
leave that where certainty, affirmative or negative, is the
result, and the agreement or disagreement of qualities the
means of inference. For the future, number and quantity
will enter into most of our processes of reasoning ; but then
I hold that number and quantity are but portions of the
