PRINCIPLES OF NUMBER. 173L
certainty begins and ends with numerical determination.
Nothing is more certain and accurate than logical truth.
The laws of identity and difference are the tests of all
that is true and certain throughout the range of thought,
and mathematical reasoning is cogent only when it con-
forms to these conditions, of which logic is the first
development. And if it be erroneous to suppose that all
certainty is mathematical, it is equally an error to imagine
that all which is mathematical is certain. Many processes
of mathematical reasoning are of most doubtful validity.
There are many paints of mathematical doctrine which are
and must long remain matter of opinion ; for instance, the
best form of the definition and axiom concerning parallel
lines, or the true nature of a limit or a ratio of infinitesimal
quantities. In the use of symbolic reasoning questions
occur at every point on which the best mathematicians
may differ, as Bernouilli and Leibnitz differed irreconcile-
ably concerning the existence of the logarithms of ne-
gative quantities a . In fact we no sooner leave the simple
logical conditions of number, than we find ourselves in-
volved in a mazy and mysterious science of symbols.
Mathematical science enjoys no monopoly, and not even
a supremacy in certainty of results. It is the boundless
extent and variety of quantitative questions that surprises
and delights the mathematical student. When simple
logic can give but a bare answer Yes or No, the algebraist
raises a score of subtle questions, and brings out a score
of curious results. The flower and the fruit, all that is
attractive and delightful, fall to the share of the mathe-
matician, who too often despises the pure but necessary
stem from which all has arisen. But in no part of human
thought can a reasoner cast himself free from the prior
conditions of logical correctness. The mathematician is
a Montucla, ' Histoire des Mathematiques,' vol. iii. p. 373.
