198 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
much confidence in the accuracy of his result . b It required
the skill of James Bernouilli to decide the number of
transpositions to be 3312, under the condition that the
sense and metre of the verse shall be perfectly preserved.
In approaching the consideration of the great Inductive
problem, it is very necessary that we should acquire correct
notions as to the comparative number of combinations
which may exist under different circumstances. The
doctrine of combinations is that part of mathematical
science which applies numerical calculation to determine
the number of combinations under various conditions.
It is a part of the science which really lies at the base
not only of other sciences, but of other branches of mathe-
matical science. The forms of algebraical expressions are
determined by the principles of combination, and Hinden-
burg recognised this fact in his Combinatorial Analysis.
The greatest mathematicians have, during the last three
centuries, given their best powers to the treatment of
this subject ; it was the favourite study of Pascal ; it
early attracted the attention of Leibnitz, who wrote his
curious essay, De Arte Combinatoria, at twenty years
of age ; James Bernouilli, one of the very profoundest
mathematicians, devoted no small part of his life to the
investigation of the subject as connected with that of
Probability ; and in his celebrated work, De Arte Con-
jectandi, he has so finely described the importance of
the doctrine of combinations, that I need offer no excuses
for quoting his remarks at full length. * It is easy to
perceive that the prodigious variety which appears both
in the works of nature and in the actions of men, and
which constitutes the greatest part of the beauty of the
universe, is owing to the multitude of different ways
in which its several parts are mixed with, or placed
near, each other. But, because the number of causes
b Wallis, 'Of Combinations,' &c., p. 119.
