PHILOSOPHY OF INDUCTIVE INFERENCE. 261
fuse at lower temperatures than their constituent metals,
I may with more or less probability draw a general in-
ference to that effect, and may thence deductively ascer-
tain the probability that the next alloy examined will fuse
at a lower temperature than its constituents. It has been
asserted, indeed, by Mr. J. S. Mill 1 , and partially admitted
by Mr. Fowler k , that we can argue directly from case to
case, so that what is true of some alloys will be true of
the next. Doubtless, this is the usual result of our
reasoning, regard being had to degrees of probability ; but
these logicians fail entirely to give any explanation of the
process by which we get from case to case. To point, as
Mr. Mill has done, to the reasoning, if such it can be
called, of brute animals, is little better than to parody
philosophy 1 . It may well be allowed, indeed, that the
knowledge of future particular events is one main purpose
of our investigations, and if there were any process of
thought by which we could pass directly from event to
event without ascending into general truths, this method
would be sufficient, and certainly the most brief and
simple. It is true, also, that the laws, of mental asso-
ciation lead the mind always to expect the like again in
apparently like circumstances, and even animals of very
low intelligence must have some trace of such powers of
association, serving to guide them more or less correctly,
in the absence of true reasoning faculties. But it is the
very purpose of logic, according to Mr. Mill, to ascertain
whether inferences have been correctly drawn, rather than
to discover them m . Even if we can, then, by habit,
1 ' System of Logic/ bk. II. chap. iii. Mr. Bain has not adopted the
views of Mr. Mill, on this particular point, so far as I can ascertain. See
his 'Inductive Logic/ p. i.
k ' Inductive Logic/ pp. 13-14.
1 'System of Logic/ bk. II. chap. 3, 3. Fifth ed. pp. 213-213,
m Ibid., Introduction, 4. Fifth ed. pp. 8-9.
