266 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
covered by the observation of particular cases, and may
again be so discovered. We have Newton's own state-
ment, to the effect that he was thus led to the all-impor-
tant Binomial Theorem, the basis of the whole structure
of mathematical analysis. Speaking of a certain series of
terms, expressing the area of a circle or hyperbola, he says,
' I reflected that the denominators were in arithmetical
progression ; so that only the numerical co-efficients of
the numerators remained to be investigated. But these,
in the alternate areas, were the figures of the powers of
the number eleven, namely 1 1, 1 1 1 , 1 1 3 , 1 1 3 , 1 1 4 ; that is,
in the first i ; in the second i, i ; in the third i, 2, i ; in
the fourth i, 3, 3, i ; in the fifth i, 4, 6, 4, i. I inquired,
therefore, in what manner all the remaining figures could
be found from the first two ; and I found that if the first
figure be called m;all the rest could be found by the
continual multiplication of the terms of the formula
m o ra i m 2 mi
X X X - X &c.'P
1234
It is pretty evident, from this most interesting statement,
that Newton having simply observed the succession of the
numbers, tried various formulae until he found one which
agreed with them all. He was so little satisfied with this
process, however, that he verified particular results of his
new theorem by comparison with the results of common
multiplication, and the rule for the extraction of the
square root. Newton, in fact, gave no demonstration of
his theorem ; and a number of the first mathematicians
of the last century, James Bernouilli, Maclaurin, Landen,
Euler, Lagrange, &c., occupied themselves with discovering
a conclusive method of deductive proof.
These are the figurate numbers considered in pages 206-216.
P * Commercium Epistolicum. Epistola ad Oldenburgum,' Oct. 24,
1676. Horsley's 'Works of Newton', vol. iv. p. 541. See De Morgan
in 'Penny Cyclopaedia', art. Binomial Theorem, p. 412.
