PHILOSOPHY OF INDUCTIVE INFERENCE. 269
absolutely certain, and are either exactly true or capable
of being carried to any required degree of approximation.
In a perfect triangle, the angles must be equal to one half-
revolution precisely ; even an infinitesimal divergence
would be impossible ; and I believe with equal confidence,
that however many are the angles of a figure, provided
there are no re-entrant angles, the sum of the angles will
be precisely and absolutely equal to twice as many right-
angles as the figure has sides, less by four right-angles.
In such cases, the deductive proof is absolute and com-
plete ; empirical verification can at the most guard against
accidental oversights.
There is a second class of geometrical truths which can
only be proved by approximation ; but, as the mind sees
no reason why that approximation should not always go
on, we arrive at complete conviction. We thus learn that
the surface of a sphere is equal exactly to two-thirds of
the whole surface of the circumscribing cylinder, or to four
times the area of the generating circle. The area of a
parabola is exactly two-thirds of that of the circumscribing
parallelogram. The area of the cycloid is exactly three
times that of the generating circle. These are truths that
we could never ascertain, nor even verify by observation ;
for any finite amount of difference, vastly less than what
the senses can discern, would falsify them. There are
again geometrical relations which we cannot assign ex-
actly, but can carry to any desirable degree of approxi-
mation. Thus, the ratio of the circumference to the
diameter of a circle is that of 3* 141 59265358979323846
to i, and the approximation may be carried to any ex-
tent by the expenditure of sufficient labour, as many as 607
places of figures having been calculated. 11 Some years since,
I amused myself by trying how near I could get to this
ratio, by the careful use of compasses, and I did not come
" ' English Cyclopaedia/ art. Tables.
