282 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
lines in the sun's spectrum. Such coincidences could
never be observed with certainty, because, even if the lines
only closely approached, the instrumental imperfections of
the spectroscope would make them apparently coincident,
and if one line came within half a millemetre of another,
on the map of the spectra, they could not be pronounced
distinct. Now the average distance of the solar lines on
KirchhofFs map is 2 millemetres, and if we throw down
a line, as it were, by pure chance on such a map, the pro-
bability is about one-half that the new line will fall within
^ millemetre on one side or the other of some one of the
solar lines. To put it in another way, we may suppose
that each solar line, either on account of its real breadth
or the defects of the instrument, possesses a breadth of
^ millemetre, and that each line in the iron spectrum has
a like breadth. The probability then is just one-half that
the centre of each iron line will come by chance within
T millemetre of the centre of a solar line, so as to appear
to coincide with it. The probability of casual coincidence
of each iron line with a solar line is in like manner -|.
Coincidence in the case of each of the sixty iron lines is
a very unlikely event if it arises casually, for it would
have a probability of only (l) 60 or less than i in a trillion.
The odds, in short, are more than a million million millions
to unity against such casual coincidence 01 . But on the
other hypothesis, that iron exists in the sun, it is highly
probable that such coincidences would be observed ; it is
immensely more probable that sixty coincidences would
be observed if iron existed in the sun, than that they
should arise from chance. Hence by our principle it is
immensely probable that iron does exist in the sun.
All the other interesting results given by the com-
parison of spectra, rest upon the same principle of proba-
d KirchhofTs 'Researches on the Solar Spectrum.' First part, trans-
lated by Professor Roscoe, pp. 18, 19.
