314 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
cal power, a very precise instrument would be useless.
Measuring apparatus and mathematical theory should ad-
vance paripassu, and with just such precision as the theorist
ran anticipate results, the experimentalist should be able
to compare them with experience. The laborious and scrupu-
lously accurate observations o Flamsteed, were the proper
complement to the intense mathemetical powers of Newton.
''Every branch of knowledge commences with quantita-
tive notions of a very rude character. After we have far
progressed, it is often amusing to look back into the
infancy of the science, and contrast present with past
methods. At Greenwich Observatory in the present day,
the hundredth part of a second is not thought an in-
considerable portion of time. The ancient Chaldseans
recorded an eclipse to the nearest hour, and even the
early Alexandrian astronomers thought it superfluous to
distinguish between the edge and centre of the sun.
By the introduction of the astrolabe, Ptolemy and the
later Alexandrian astronomers could determine the places
of the heavenly bodies within about ten minutes of arc.
But little progress then ensued for thirteen centuries,
until Tycho Brahe made the first great step towards
accuracy, not only by employing better instruments,
but even more by ceasing to regard an instrument
as correct. Tycho, in fact, determined the errors of his
instruments, and corrected his observations. He also took
notice of the effects of atmospheric refraction, and suc-
ceeded in attaining an accuracy often sixty times as great
as that of Ptolemy. Yet Tycho and Hevelius often erred
several minutes in the determination of a star's place, and
it was a great achievement of Roemer and Flamsteed to
reduce this error to seconds. Bradley, the modern Hip-
parchus, carried on the improvement, his errors in right
ascension being under one second of time, and those of
declination under four seconds of arc according to Bessel.
