THE EXACT MEASUREMENT OF PHENOMENA. 321
of the light received, and thus admits more or less light
according to circumstances. The moon which shines with
almost dazzling brightness by night, is pale and nearly
imperceptible while the eye is yet affected by the vastly
more powerful light of day. Much has been recorded
concerning the comparative brightness of the zodiacal
light at different times h , but it would be difficult to prove
that these changes are not due to the varying darkness
at the time, or the different acuteness of the observer's
eye. For a like reason it is exceedingly difficult to esta-
blish the existence of any change in the form or compara-
tive brightness of nebulas ; the appearance of a nebula
greatly depends upon the keenness of sight of the ob-
server, or the accidental condition of freshness or fatigue
of his eye ; the same is true of lunar observations 1 ; and
even the use of the best telescope fails to remedy this
difficulty. In judging of colours again, we must remember
that light of any given colour tends to dull the sensibility
of the eye for light of the same colour.
Nor is the eye when unassisted by instruments a much
better judge of magnitude. Our estimates of the size of
minute bright points, such as the fixed stars, are com-
pletely falsified by the effects of irradiation. Tycho calcu-
lated from the apparent size of the star- discs, that no
one of the principal fixed stars could be contained within
the area of the earth's orbit. Apart, however, from irradia-
tion or other distinct causes of error, our visual estimates
of sizes and shapes are often astonishingly incorrect.
Artists almost invariably draw distant mountains or other
objects in ludicrous disproportion to nearer objects, as a
comparison of a sketch with a photograph at once shows.
The extraordinary apparent difference of size of the sun
h 'Cosmos,' Translated by Ott, vol. i. pp. 131-134.
i 'Report of the British Association,' 1871, p. 84. Grant's 'History
of Physical Astronomy/ pp. 568-9.
Y
