340 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
ing the principle of repetition in perfection, was employed
with wonderful skill by Sir George Airy, in his experi-
ments on the Density of the Earth at the Harton Colliery ;
the pendulums above and below being compared with
clocks, which again were compared with each other by
electric signals. So exceedingly accurate was this method
of observation, as carried out by Sir George Airy, that he
was able to measure a total difference in the vibrations at
the top and bottom of the shaft, amounting to only 2*24
seconds in the twenty-four hours, with an error of less
than one hundredth part of a second, or one part in
8,640,000 of the whole day x .
The principle of repetition has been elegantly applied
in observing the motion of waves in water. If the canal
in which the experiments are made be short, say twenty
feet long, the waves will pass through it so rapidly that
an observation of one length, as practised by Walker, will
be subject to much terminal error, even when the observer
is very skilful. But it is a result of the undulatory theory
that a wave is quite unaltered, and loses no time by com-
plete reflection, so that it may be allowed to travel back-
wards and forwards in the same canal, and its motion, say
through sixty lengths, or 1 200 feet, may be observed with
the same accuracy as in a canal 1200 feet long, with the
advantage of greater uniformity in the condition of the
canal and water y. It is always desirable, if possible, to
bring an experiment into a small compass, so as to be well
under command, and yet we may often by repetition
enjoy at the same time the advantage of extensive obser-
vation.
One reason of the great accuracy of weighing with a
good balance is the fact, that weights placed in the same
* 'Philosophical Transactions/ (1856) vol. 146, Part i. p. 297.
y Airy, < On Tides and Waves,' Encyclopaedia Metropolitan, p. 345.
Scott Russell, ' British Association Report/ 1837, p. 432.
