350 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
and should serve only as a means of comparison between
.two or more magnitudes. As a general rule, we should
not even attempt to make the divisions of the measuring
scale exact multiples or submultiples of the unit, but,
regarding them as arbitrary marks, should determine their
values by comparison with the standard itself. Thus the
perpendicular wires in the field of a transit telescope, are
fixed at nearly equal but arbitrary distances, and those
distances are afterwards determined, as first suggested by
Malvasia, by watching the passage of star after star across
them, and noting the intervals of time by the clock.
Owing to the perfectly regular motion of the earth, these
time intervals give an exact determination of the angular
intervals. In the same way, the angular value of each
turn of the screw micrometer attached to a telescope, can
be easily and accurately ascertained.
When a thermopile is used to observe radiant heat, it
would be almost impossible to calculate on a priori
grounds what is the value of each division of the galvano-
meter circle, and still more difficult to construct a galva-
nometer, so that each division should have a given value.
But this is quite unnecessary, because by placing the ther-
mopile before a body of known dimensions, at a known
distance, with a known temperature, and radiating power,
we measure a known amount of radiant heat, and in-
versely measure the value of the indications of the ther-
mopile. In a similar way Mr. Joule ascertained the actual
temperature produced by the compression of bars of metal.
For having inserted a simple thermopile composed of a
single junction of copper and iron wire, and noted the
deflections of the galvanometer, he had only to dip the
bars into water of different temperatures, until he pro-
duced a like deflection, in order to ascertain the temperature
developed by pressure .
'Philosophical Transactions' (1859), vol. cxlix. p. 119, &c.
