UNITS AND STANDARDS OF MEASUREMENT. 361
yet we cannot feel or know abstract and absolute time.
Duration must be made manifest to us by the recurrence
of some phenomenon. The succession and change of our
own thoughts is no doubt the first and simplest measure
of time, but a very rude one, because in some persons and
circumstances the thoughts evidently flow with much
greater rapidity than in other persons and circumstances.
In the absence of all other phenomena, the interval be-
tween one thought and another, would necessarily become
the unit of time. The earth, as I have already said, is
the real clock of the astronomer, and is practically assumed
as invariable in its movements. But on what ground is
it so assumed ? According to the first law of motion, every
body perseveres in its state of rest or of uniform motion
in a right line, unless it is compelled to change that state
by forces impressed thereon. Rotatory motion is subject
to a like condition, namely, that it perseveres uniformly
unless disturbed by extrinsic forces. Now uniform mo-
tion means motion through equal spaces in equal times,
so that if we have a body entirely free from all resistance
or perturbation, and can measure equal spaces of its path,
we have a perfect measure of time. But let it be remem-
bered at the same time, that this law has never been
absolutely proved by experience ; for we cannot point to
any body, and say that it is wholly unresisted or undis-
turbed ; and even if we had such a body, we should need
some entirely independent standard of time to ascertain
whether its motion was really uniform. As it is in moving-
bodies that we find the best standard of time, we cannot
theoretically speaking use them to prove the uniformity
of their own movements, which would amount to a petitio
principii. Our experience amounts to this, that when
we examine and compare the movements of bodies which
seem to us nearly free from disturbance, we find them
give nearly harmonious measures of time. If any one
