360 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
same length, or even two bars bearing a perfectly defined
ratio to each other, is beyond the power of human art. If
two copies of the standard metre be made and declared
equally correct, future investigators will certainly discover
some discrepancy between them, proving of course that they
cannot both be the standard, and giving cause for dispute
as to what magnitude should then be taken as correct.
If one invariable bar could be constructed and main-
tained as the absolute standard, no such inconvenience
could arise. Each successive generation as it acquired
higher powers of measurement, would detect errors in
the copies of the standard, but the standard itself would
be unimpeached, and would, as it were, become by degrees
more and more accurately known. Unfortunately to con-
struct and preserve a metre or yard is also a task which
is either impossible, or what comes nearly to the same
thing, cannot be shown to be possible. Passing over the
practical difficulty of defining the ends of the standard
length with complete accuracy, whether by dots or lines
on the surface, or by the terminal points of the bar, we
have no means of proving that substances remain of in-
variable dimensions. Just as we cannot tell whether the
rotation of the earth is uniform, except by comparing it
with other moving bodies, believed to be more uniform
in motion, so we cannot detect the change of length in a
bar, except by comparing it with some other bar sup-
posed to be invariable. But how are we to know which
is the invariable bar ? It is certain that many rigid
and' apparently invariable substances do change in di-
mensions. The bulb of a thermometer certainly contracts
by age, besides undergoing rapid changes of dimensions
when warmed or cooled through 100 Cent. m Can we
m "Watts' ' Dictionary of Chemistry/ vol. v. pp. 766, 76?. Dr. Joule
has recently confirmed the statements concerning the contraction of a
thermometer-bulb.
