390 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
called the Pyrheliometer, for ascertaining the heating
power of the sun's rays. In both instruments the heat
of the sun was absorbed by a reservoir containing water,
and the rise of temperature of the water was exactly
observed, either by its own expansion or by the readings
of a delicate thermometer immersed in it. The details
of the construction and use of these instruments are im-
material to our immediate purpose. Now in exposing the
actinometer to the sun, we do not obtain the full effect
of the heat absorbed, because the receiving surface is at
the same time radiating heat into empty space. The
observed increment of temperature is in short the dif-
ference between what is received from the sun and lost by
radiation. But the latter quantity is capable of ready
determination ; we have only to shade the instrument
from the direct rays of the sun, while leaving it exposed
to the rest of the open sky, and we can observe how
much it cools in a certain time. The total effect of the
sun's rays will obviously be the apparent effect plus the
cooling effect in an equal time. By alternate exposure
in sun and shade during equal intervals the desired result
may be obtained with considerable accuracy c .
Two quantitative effects were beautifully distinguished
in an experiment of John Canton, devised in 1761 for the
purpose of demonstrating the compressibility of water d .
He constructed a thermometer with a large bulb full of
water and a short capillary tube, the part of which above
the water was freed from air. Under these circumstances
the water was relieved from the pressure of the atmo-
sphere, but the glass bulb in bearing that pressure was
somewhat contracted. He next placed the instrument
under the receiver of an airpump, and on exhausting the
air, observed the water sink in the tube. Having thus
c Pouillct, 'Taylor's Scientific Memoirs,' vol. iv. p. 45.
(1 Jmniii, '('ours <le Plrysujue,' vol. i. p. 158.
