426 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
provided that we have a series of observations sufficiently
numerous and long continued to enable us to balance all
the larger effects against each other. For this purpose
the observations should be continued over at least one
complete cycle, in which the effects run through all their
variations, and return exactly to the same relative position
as at the commencement. If casual or irregular disturbing
causes exist, we should probably require many such cycles
of results to render their effect inappreciable. We obtain
the desired result by taking the mean of all the observa-
tions in which a cause acts positively, and the mean of all
in which it acts negatively. Half the difference of these
means will be the desired quantity, provided indeed that
no other effect happens to vary in the same period.
Since the moon causes so considerable a movement of
the ocean, it is evident that its attraction must have some
effect upon the atmosphere. The laws of these tides were
investigated by Laplace, but as it would be impracticable
by theory to calculate their amount, we can only determine
them by observation, as Laplace predicted that they would
one day be determined m . But the oscillations of the
barometer thus caused are far smaller than the oscillations
due to several other causes. Storms, hurricanes, or changes
of weather produce movements of the barometer some-
times as much as a thousand times as great as the tide in
question. There are also regular daily, yearly, or other
fluctuations, all greater than the desired quantity. To
detect and measure the atmospheric tide it was desirable
that observations should be made in a place as free as
possible from irregular disturbances. On this account
several long series of observations were made at St.
Helena, where the barometer is far more regular in its
movements than in a continental climate. The effect of
the moon's attraction was then detected by taking the
111 ' Kssai Philosophique sur les Probabilites/ pp. 49, 50.
