THE METHOD OF MEANS. 429
affected by the very principles of gravity. Nevertheless
it can be detected ; for if we place one plumb-line to the
north of a mountain, and another to the south, they will
be about equally deflected in opposite directions, and if
by observations on the same star we can measure the angle
between the plumb-lines, half the inclination will be the
deviation of either, after allowance has been made for the
inclination due to the difference of latitude of the two
places of observation. By this mode of observation ap-
plied to the mountain Schehallien the deviation of the
plumb-line was accurately measured by Maskelyne, and
thus a comparison instituted between the attractive forces
of the mountain and the whole globe, which led to a very
probable estimate of the earth's average density.
In some cases it is actually better to determine the zero
point by the average of equally diverging quantities than .
by direct observations. Thus in delicate weighings by a
chemical balance it is requisite to ascertain exactly the
point at which the beam comes to rest, and when standard
weights are being compared the position of the beam is
ascertained by a carefully divided scale viewed through a
microscope. But when the beam is just coming to rest,
friction, small impediments or other accidental causes
may readily obstruct it, because it is near the point at
which the force of stability becomes infinitely small.
Hence it is found better to let the beam vibrate and
observe the terminal points of the vibrations. The mean
between two extreme points will nearly indicate the posi-
tion of rest. Friction and the resistance of air tend to
reduce the vibrations, so that this mean will be erroneous
by half the amount of this effect during a half vibration.
But by taking several observations we may determine
this retardation and allow for it. Thus if a, ~b, c be the
terminal points of three excursions of the beam from the
zero of the scale, then ^ (a + b) will be about as much
