448 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
has crept into several works which allude to this subject.
Mr. Mill, in treating of the ' Elimination of Chance/ re-
marks in a note * that ' the mean is spoken of as if it were
exactly the same thing with the average. But the mean,
for purposes of inductive inquiry, is not the average, or
arithmetical mean, though in a familiar illustration of the
theory the difference may be disregarded/ He goes on to
say that, according to mathematical principles, the most
probable result is that for which the sums of the squares
of the deviations is the least possible. In Bowen's l Treatise
on Logic' (p. 439), we find the Method of Least Squares
mentioned as ' a mode of finding the most probable result
in those cases in which the arithmetical mean is not an
applicable expedient for determining the probability/ It
seems probable that these and other writers were misled
by Dr. Whewell's remarks on the subject ; for he says k
that * The Method of Least Squares is in fact a Method of
Means, but with some peculiar characters. . . . The
method proceeds upon this supposition ; that all errors
are not equally probable, but that small errors are more
probable than large ones/ He adds that this method
* removes much that is arbitrary in the Method of Means/
It is strange to find a mathematician like Dr. Whewell
making such remarks, when there is no doubt whatever
that the Method of Means is only an application of the
Method of Least Squares. They are, in fact, the same
method, except that the latter method may be applied to
cases where two or more quantities have to be determined
at the same time. Many authorities might be quoted to
this effect, but it will be sufficient to mention Lubbock
and Drink water, who say \ ' If only one quantity has to be
i 'System of Logic,' bk. iii. chap. 17, 3. 5th ed. vol. ii. p. 56.
k ' Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences,' 2nd ed. vol. ii. pp. 408, 409.
1 'Essay on Probability,' by J. W. Lubbock and J. E. Drinkwater,
Useful Knowledge Society, 1833, p. 41.
