THE LA W OF ERROR. 451
The Probable Error of Mean Results.
When we draw any conclusion from the numerical
results of observations we ought not to consider it suf-
ficient, in cases of importance, to content ourselves with
finding the simple mean and treating it as true. We
ought also to ascertain what is the degree of confidence
we may place in this mean, and our confidence should be
measured by the degree of concurrence of the observations
from which it is derived. In some cases the mean may
be so close to the correct result that we may consider it
as approximately certain and accurate. In other cases it
may really be worth little or nothing. The Law of Error
enables us to give exact expression to the degree of con-
fidence proper in any case ; for it shows how to calculate
the probability of a divergence of any amount from the
mean, and we can thence ascertain the probability that
the mean in question is within a certain distance from the
true number. The probable error is taken by mathema-
ticians to mean the limits within which it is as likely as
not that the truth will fall. Thus if 5*45 be the mean of
all the determinations of the density of the earth, and '20
be approximately the probable error, the meaning is that
the probability of the real density of the earth falling be-
tween 5*25 and 5 '6 5 is J. Any other limits might have
been selected at will. We might readily calculate the limits
within which it was one hundred or one thousand to one
that the truth would fall ; but there is a general conven-
tion to take the even odds, one to one, as the quantity of
probability of which the limits are to be estimated.
Many books on the subject of probability give rules for
making the calculations, but as, in the gradual progress of
science, all persons ought to be more familiar with these
processes, I propose to repeat the rules here and illustrate
their use. The calculations, when made in strict accordance
with the directions, involve none but arithmetic operations.
Gg 2
