THE LAW OF ERROR. 457
should then make it a point of prime importance to dis-
cover the exact nature and amount of such an error, and
either prevent its occurrence for the future or else intro-
duce a corresponding correction. In many researches the
whole difficulty will consist in this detection and avoidance
of sources of error. Thus Professor Roscoe found that the
presence of phosphorus caused serious and almost una-
voidable errors in the determination of the atomic weight
of vanadium r . Sir John Herschel, in reducing his obser-
vations of double stars at the Cape of Good Hope, was
perplexed by an unaccountable difference of the angles of
position as measured by the Seven-feet Equatorial and
the Twenty-feet Keflector Telescopes, and after a careful
investigation was obliged to be contented with introducing
a correction experimentally determined 8 .
Even the most patient and exhaustive investigations
will sometimes fail to disclose any reason why some results
diverge in an unusual and unexpected manner from others.
The question again recurs Are we arbitrarily to exclude
them ? The answer should be in the negative as a general
rule. The mere fact of divergence ought not to be taken
as conclusive against a result, and the exertion of arbitrary
choice would open the way to the most fatal influence of
bias, and what is commonly known as "the 'cooking' of
figures. It would amount in most cases to judging fact
by theory instead of theory by fact. The apparently
divergent number may even prove in time to be the true
one. It may be an exception of that peculiarly valuable
kind which upsets our false theories, a real exception, ex-
ploding apparent coincidences, and opening the way to a
wholly new view of the subject. To establish this position
for the divergent fact will of course require additional re-
search ; but in the meantime we should give it a fair
r Bakcrian Lecture, 'Philosophical Transactions' (1868), vol. clviii. p. 6.
8 ' Results of Observations at the Cape of Good Hope/ p. 283.
