OBSERVATION.
experiment. When the earliest astronomers simply noticed
the ordinary motions of the sun, moon, and planets upon
the face of the starry heavens, they were pure observers.
But astronomers now select precise times and places for
important observations of stellar parallax, or the transits of
planets. They make the earth's orbit the basis of a well
arranged natural experiment, as it were, and take well
considered advantage of motions which they cannot control.
Meteorology might seem to be a science of pure observation,
because we cannot possibly govern the changes of weather
which we record. Nevertheless we may ascend mountains,
or rise in balloons, like Gay-Lussac and Glaisher, and may
thus so vary the points of observation as to render our
procedure experimental. We are wholly unable either to
produce or prevent earth currents of electricity, but when
we construct long lines of telegraphic wires, we gather
such strong currents during periods of disturbance as to
render them capable of easy observation.
The most well arranged and assiduous systems of ob-
servation, however, would fail to give us a large part of
the facts which we now possess. Many of the processes
which are continually going on in nature may be so slow
and gentle in operation that they would for ever escape
our powers of observation. Lavoisier remarked that the
decomposition of water must have been constantly pro-
ceeding in nature, although its possibility was unknown
till his time . No substance is wholly destitute of mag-
netic or diamagnetic powers ; but it required all the
experimental skill of Faraday to prove that iron, and a
few other metals had no monopoly of these powers.
Passive and accidental observation long ago impressed
upon men's minds the phenomena of lightning, and the
attractive properties of amber. Experiment only could
have shown that phenomena so diverse in magnitude and
c Lavoisier's 'Elements of Chemistry/ transl. by Kerr, 3rd ed. p. 148.
B 2
