OBSERVATION. 19
the fertilization of orchids by agency of insects is proved
as well as any fact in natural history, Mr. Darwin has
never been able by the closest watching to detect an insect
in the performance of the operation. Mr. Darwin has him-
self, indeed, adopted one conclusion on purely negative
evidence, namely that the Orchis pyramidalis and certain
other orchidaceous flowers secrete no nectar. But his
caution and unwearying patience in verifying the con-
clusion give an impressive lesson to the observer. For
twenty-three consecutive days, as he tells us, he examined
flowers, in all states of the weather, at all hours, in various
localities. As the secretion in other flowers sometimes
rapidly takes place and might happen at early dawn, that
inconvenient hour of observation was specially adopted.
Flowers of different ages were subjected to irritating
vapours, to water, and every condition likely to bring on
the secretion ; and only after the invariable failure of this
exhaustive inquiry was the barrenness of the nectaries
assumed to be proved x .
In order that a negative argument founded on the non-
observation of an object shall have any considerable force,
it must be shown to be probable that the object if existent
would have been observed, and it is this probability which
defines the value of the negative conclusion. The failure
of astronomers to see the planet Vulcan, supposed by some
to exist within Mercury's orbit, is no sufficient disproof of
its existence. Similarly it would be very difficult, or even
impossible, to disprove the existence of a second satellite of
small size revolving round the earth. But if any person
make a particular assertion, assigning place and time, then
observation will either prove or disprove the alleged fact.
Thus if it is true that when a French observer professed
to have seen a planet on the sun's face, an observer in
Brazil was carefully scrutinizing the sun and failed to see
x Darwin's ' Fertilization of Orchids/ p. 48.
C 2
