34 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
but there can be no doubt as to the acuteness with which
Leslie points out the difficulty. In Well's investigations
concerning the nature of dew, we have, again, very
complicated conditions. If we expose plates of various
material, such as rough iron, glass, polished metal, to the
midnight sky, they will be dewed in various degrees ;
but since these plates differ both in the nature of the
surface and the conducting power of the material, it would
not be plain whether one or both circumstances were of
importance. We avoid this difficulty by exposing the
same material polished or varnished, so as to present dif-
ferent conditions of surface" 1 ; and again by exposing
different substances with the same kind of surface.
When we are quite unable to isolate circumstances we
must resort to the procedure described by Mr. J. S. Mil!
under the name of the Joint Method of Agreement and
Difference. We must collect as many instances as possible in
which a given circumstance produces a given result, and as
many as possible in which the absence of the circumstance
is followed by the absence of the result. To adduce his
example, we cannot experiment upon the cause of double
refraction in Iceland spar, because we cannot alter its
crystalline condition without altering it altogether, nor can
we find substances exactly like calc spar in every circum-
stance except one. We can only resort therefore to the
method of comparing together all known substances
which have the property of doubly-refracting light, and
we find that they agree in being crystalline 11 . This in-
deed is nothing but an ordinary process of perfect or
probable induction, already partially described, and to be
further discussed under the subject of Classification. It
may be added, however, that the subject does admit of
m Herschel, ' Preliminary Discourse on the Study of Natural Philo-
sophy/ p. 16 1.
n ' System of Logic/' bk. III. chap. viii. 4, 5th. ed. vol. i. p. 433.
