EXPERIMENT. 39
Fraunhofer were equally struck by the prominence of the
yellow line in the spectrum of nearly every kind of light.
Talbot expressly recommended the use of the prism for
detecting the presence of substances by what we now call
spectrum analysis, but he found that all substances, how-
ever different the light they yielded in other respects,
were identical as regards the production of yellow light.
Talbot knew that the salts of soda all gave this coloured
light, but in spite of Davy's previous difficulties with salt
in electrolysis, it did not occur to him to assert that where
the light is, there the sodium must be. He suggested
water as the most likely source of the yellow light, be-
cause of its usual presence ; but even substances which
were apparently devoid of water gave the very same
yellow light*. Brewster and Herschel both experimented
upon flames almost at the same time as Talbot, and
Herschel unequivocally enounced the principle of spec-
trum analysis". Nevertheless Brewster, after numerous
experiments attended with great trouble and disappoint-
ment, found that yellow light might be obtained from
the combustion of almost any substance. It was not until
1856 that Professor W. Swan discovered that an almost in-
finitesimal quantity of sodium chloride, say a millionth
part of a grain, was sufficient to tinge a flame of a bright
yellow colour. The universal diffusion of the salts of
sodium, joined to this unique light-producing power, was
thus shown to be the unsuspected circumstance which had
destroyed the confidence of all previous experimenters in
the use of the prism. Some references concerning the
history of this curious point are given below x .
* ' Edinburgh Journal of Science,' vol v. p. 79.
11 'Encyclopaedia Metropolitana/ article Light, 524; Herschel's
' Familiar Lectures,' p. 266.
x Talbot, * Philosophical Magazine/ 3rd Series, vol. ix. p. i (1836);
Brewster, 'Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh/ [1823] vol.
