40 VIIE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
In the science of radiant heat, early inquirers were led
to the conclusion that radiation proceeded only from the
surface of a solid, or from a very small depth below it.
But they happened to experiment upon surfaces covered
by coats of varnish, which is highly athermanous or
opaque to heat. Had they properly varied the character of
the surface, using a highly diathermanous substance like
rock salt, they would have obtained very different results > T .
One of the most extraordinary instances of an erroneous
opinion due to overlooking interfering agents is that con-
cerning the increase of rainfall near to the earth's surface.
More than a century ago it was observed that rain-
guages placed upon church steeples, house tops, and other
elevated places, gave considerably less rain than if they
were on the ground, and it has very recently been shown
that the variation is most rapid in the close neighbourhood
of the ground 2 . All kinds of theories have been started to
explain this phenomenon ; but I have attempted to show a
that it is simply due to the interference of wind, which
deflects more or less rain from all the guages which are
at all exposed to it.
The great magnetic power of iron renders it a constant-
source of disturbance in all magnetic experiments. In
building a magnetic observatory great care must therefore
be taken that no iron is employed in the construction, and
that no masses of iron are near at hand. In some cases
magnetic observations have been seriously disturbed by the
existence of masses of iron ore in the neighbourhood. In
Faraday's experiments upon feebly magnetic or diamag-
ix. pp. 433, 455; Swan, ibid. [1856] vol. xxi. p. 411.; 'Philosophical
Magazine,' 4th Series, vol. xx. p. 173, [Sept. 1860] ; Roscoe, 'Spectrum
Analysis,' Lecture III.
y Stewart, ' Elementary Treatise on Heat,' p. 192.
z British Association, Liverpool, 1870. 'Report on Rainfall,' p. 176.
a 'Philosophical Magazine,' Dec. 1861, 4th Series, vol. xxii. p. 421.
