46 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
million times greater than that of light ; but it does not
really follow that it is instantaneous ; and were there any
means of detecting the action of one star upon another
exceedingly distant star, we might possibly find an ap-
preciable interval occupied in the transmission of the
gravitating impulse. Newton could not demonstrate the
absence of all resistance to matter moving through
space, or the adamantine basis of light ; but he ascer-
tained by one of the most beautiful experiments with the
pendulum, elsewhere more fully described (vol. ii. p. 55),
that if such resistance existed, it was in amount less
than one five-thousandth part of the external resistance
of the air P.
Innumerable incidents in the history of science tend to
show that phenomena, which one generation has failed
to detect, may become accurately known to a succeeding
generation. The compressibility of water which the Aca-
demicians of Florence could not prove, because at a low
pressure the effect was too small to perceive, and at a
high pressure the water oozed through their silver vessels,
has now become the subject of exact measurements and
precise calculation. Independently of Newton, Hooke
entertained very remarkable notions concerning the nature
of gravitation. In this and other subjects he showed, in-
deed, a genius for experimental investigation which would
have placed him in the first rank in any other age than
that of Newton. He correctly conceived that the force of
gravity would decrease as we receded from the centre of
the earth, and he boldly attempted to prove it by experi-
ment. Having exactly counterpoised two weights in the
scales of a balance, or rather one weight against another
weight and a long piece of fine cord, he removed his
Laplace, 'System of the World/ transl. by Harte, vol. ii. p. 322.
P Trincipia/ bk. II. sec. 6, Prop. xxxi. Motte's translation, vol. ii. p. 108.
1 ' Essaycs of Natural Experiments/ &c. p. 117.
