G4 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
periodic likewise ; rior is there any limit to the complica-
tion of periods beyond periods, or periods within periods,
which may ultimately be disclosed. In studying, then, a
phenomenon of rhythmical character we have a succession
of questions to ask. Is the periodic variation uniform 1
If not, is the change uniform ? If not, is the change itself
periodic \ Is that new period uniform, or subject to any
other change, or not ? and so on ad infinitum.
In some cases there may be many distinct causes of
periodic variations, and according to the principle of the
superposition of small effects, to be afterwards more fully
considered, these periodic effects will be simply added
together, or at least approximately so, and the joint result
may present a very complicated subject of investigation.
Thus the tides of the ocean consist of a series of super-
imposed undulations, of which the number and character
have by no means been determined as yet. Not only are
there the ordinary and very obvious semi-diurnal tides
caused by sun and moon, but a series of minor tides,
such as the lunar diurnal, the solar diurnal, the lunar
monthly, the lunar fortnightly, the solar annual and solar
semi-annual are gradually being disentangled by the
labours of Sir W. Thomson and others r .
Variable stars present very interesting periodic pheno-
mena ; while some stars, S Cephei for instance are
subject to very regular and equal variations, others, like
Mira Ceti, are less constant in the degrees of brilliancy
which they attain or the rapidity of the changes, pos-
sibly on account of some much longer periodic variation 8 .
The star /3 Lyrse presents a double maximum and
minimum in each of its periods of nearly 13 days, and
since the discovery of this variation the period in a period
has probably been on the increase. 'At first the varia-
r < British Association Report/ 1870, p. 120.
s Herschel's ' Outlines of Astronomy/ 4th edit. pp. 555-557.
