THEORY OF APPROXIMATION, 75
straight lines, triangles, circles, and other regular geo-
metrical figures ; to our science it is a matter of indif-
ference whether they do or do not exist, because in any
case they must be beyond our powers of appreciation. If
we submitted a perfect circle to the most rigorous scrutiny
and measurement, it is impossible that we should discover
whether it were perfect or not. Nevertheless in geometry
we argue concerning perfect rectilineal figures and curves,
and the conclusions apply to existing objects so far as we
can assure ourselves that they agree with the hypothetical
conditions of our reasoning. Now this is in reality all that
we can do in the most perfect of the sciences of nature.
Doubtless in astronomy we meet with the nearest ap-
proximation to actual conditions. The law of gravity is
not a complex one in itself, and we believe it with much
probability to be exactly true ; but we cannot calculate
out in any one case its accurate results. The law asserts
that every particle of matter in the universe attracts every
other particle, with a force depending on the masses of the
particles and their distance. We cannot then know the
force acting on any one particle unless we know the masses
and distances and positions of all the other particles in the
universe. The physical astronomer has from the first
made a sweeping assumption, namely, that all the other
millions of existing systems exert no perturbing effects in
our planetary system, that is to say, no effects in the least
appreciable. Thus the problem becomes at once hypo-
thetical, because there is little doubt that gravitation be-
tween our sun and planets and other systems must exist
in some degree. But even when they consider the re-
lations of our planetary bodies inter se, all their processes
are grossly approximative. In the first place they assume
that each of the planets is a perfect ellipsoid, with a
smooth surface and a homogeneous interior. That this
assumption is untrue every mountain and valley, every
