THEORY OF APPROXIMATION. 83
Potassium is the only element whose atomic weight has
been determined with great care, but which has not
shown an approach to a simple ratio with the other ele-
ments. This exception may be due to some unsuspected
cause of error *. A similar assumption is also made in the
law of definite combining volumes of gases, and Sir B. C.
Brodie has clearly pointed out the line of argument by
which the chemist, observing that the discrepancies be-
tween the law and fact are within the limits of experi-
mental error, assumes that they are due to error k .
Faraday, in one of his researches, expressly makes an
assumption of the same kind. Having shown, with some
degree of experimental precision, that there exists a simple
proportion between quantities of electrical energy and the
quantities of chemical substances which it can decompose,
so that for every atom dissolved in the battery cell an
atom ought theoretically, that is without regard to dissi-
pation of some of the energy, to be decomposed in the
electrolytic cell, he does not stop at his numerical results.-
' 1 have not hesitated,' he says, ' to apply the more strict
results of chemical analysis to correct the numbers ob-
tained as electrolytic results. This, it is evident, may be
done in a great number of cases 1, without using too much
liberty towards the due severity of scientific research/
The law of the conservation of energy itself, one of the
widest of all physical generalizations, must rest upon the
same footing. The most that we can do by experiment is
to show that the energy entering into any experimental
combination is almost exactly equal to what comes out of
it, and more nearly so the more accurately we perform all
the measurements. Absolute equality is always a matter
of assumption. We cannot even prove the indestructibility
i Watts, 'Dictionary of Chemistry,' vol. i. p. 455.
k ' Philosophical Transactions/ (1866) vol. clvi. p. 809.
1 ' Experimental Researches in Electricity/ vol. i. p. 246.
G 2
