THEORY OF APPROXIMATION. 85
Newton, indeed, was one of the few men who could
make two great steps at once. He did not rest contented
with the spherical hypothesis ; having reason to believe
that the earth was really a spheroid with a protuberance
around the equator, he proceeded to a second approxima-
tion, and proved that the attraction of the protuberant
matter upon the moon accounted for the precession of the
equinoxes, and led to various complicated effects. But,
as I have already mentioned (vol. ii. p. 76), even the
spheroidal hypothesis is far from the truth. It takes no
account of the irregularities of surface, the great protu-
berance of land, for instance, in Central Asia and South
America, and the deficiency in the bed of the Atlantic.
To determine the law according to which a projectile,
such as a cannon ball, moves through the resisting atmo-
sphere is a problem very imperfectly solved at the present
day, but in which many successive advances have been
made. So little was known concerning the subject three
or four centuries ago that a cannon ball was supposed to
move at first in a straight line, and only after a time to
be deflected into a curve. Tartaglia ventured to maintain
that the path was curved throughout, as by the principle
of continuity it should be ; but the ingenuity of Galileo was
required to prove this opinion, and to show that the curve
was approximately a parabola. It is only, however, under
several forced hypotheses that we can assert the path of a
projectile to be truly a parabola : the path must be through
a perfect vacuum, where there is no resisting medium of
any kind ; the force of gravity must be equal and act in
parallel lines; and the moving body must be either a
mere point, or a perfect centrobaric body, that is a body
possessing a definite centre of gravity. None of these
conditions can be really fulfilled in practice. The next
great step in the problem was made by Newton and
Huyghens, the latter of whom asserted that the atmo-
