THE USE OF HYPOTHESIS. 139
about 700 billions of vibrations in each second, are state-
ments of an inconceivable and absurd character in one
sense ; but they are so far from being opposed to fact that
we cannot on any other suppositions account for the phe-
nomena observed. But if an hypothesis involve self-con-
tradiction, or is inconsistent with known laws of nature, it
is so far self-condemned. We cannot even apply processes
of deductive reasoning to a self-contradictory notion ; and
being entirely opposed to the most general and certain
laws known to us, the primary laws of thought, it thereby
conspicuously fails to agree with facts. Since nature,
again, is never self-contradictory, we cannot at the same
time accept two theories which lead to contradictory
results. If the one agrees with nature, the other cannot.
Hence if there be a law which we believe with high pro-
bability to be verified in observation, we must not frame
an hypothesis in conflict with it, otherwise the hypothesis
will necessarily be in disagreement with observation.
Since no law or hypothesis is proved, indeed, with ab-
solute certainty, there is always a chance, however slight,
that the new hypothesis may displace the old one ; but
the greater the probability which we assign to that old
hypothesis, the greater must be the evidence required in
favour of the new and conflicting one. A decisive ex-
perimentum crucis to negative the one, and establish the
other, will probably be requisite to allay the strife.
I am inclined to assert, then, that there is but one test
of a good hypothesis, namely, its conformity with observed
facts; but this condition may be said to involve, at the
same time, three minor conditions, nearly equivalent to
those suggested by Hobbes and Boyle, namely :
1 i ) That it allow of the application of deductive reason-
ing and the inference of consequences.
(2) That it do not conflict with any laws of nature, or
of mind, which we hold as true.
