THE VSti OF HYPOTHESIS. ^^.^ 141
so far liken it to matter. And as when applying those
laws to the elastic medium air, we are able to infer the
phenomena of sound, so by arguing in a similar manner
concerning ether we are able to infer the existence of
light phenomena corresponding to what do occur. All
that we do is to take a material elastic substance, increase
its elasticity in an almost indefinite degree, and denude it
of gravity and some others of the ordinary properties of
matter, but we must retain^ sufficient likeness to matter to
allow of deductive calculation^-
The force of gravity is in some respects an almost in-
comprehensible existence, but in other respects entirely
conformable to experience. We can distinctly observe
that the force is proportional to mass, and that it acts in
entire independence of the other matter which may be
present or intervening. The law of the decrease of in-
tensity as the square of the distance increases, may be
observed to hold true of light, sound, and any other
influences emanating from a point, and spreading uni-
formly through space. The law is doubtless connected
at this point with the primary properties of space itself,
and is so far conformable to our necessary ideas.
It may well be said, however, that no hypothesis can
be so much as framed in the mind unless it be more or
less conformable to experience. As the material of our
ideas is undoubtedly derived from sensation, so we cannot
figure to ourselves any existence or agent, but as endowed
with some of the properties of matter. All that the mind
can do in the creation of new existences is to alter com-
binations, or by analogy to alter the intensity of sensuous
properties. The phenomenon of motion is familiar to
sight and touch, and different degrees of rapidity are also
familiar : we can pass beyond the limits of sense, and
suppose the existence of rapid motion, such as our senses
could not measure or observe. We know what is elasticity,
