THE USE OF HYPOTHESIS. 147
analogy which doubtless suggested the theory. The
failure was in the first and third requisites ; for, as already
remarked, the theory did not allow of any precise cal-
culation of planetary motions, and was so far incapable
of rigorous verification. But so far as we can institute a
comparison, facts are entirely against the vortices. Newton
carefully pointed out that the Cartesian theory was incon-
sistent with the laws of Kepler, and would represent the
planets as moving more rapidly at their aphelia than at
their perihelia 1 . Newton did not ridicule the theory as
absurd, but showed k that it was 'pressed with many
difficulties/ The rotatory motions of the sun and planets
on their own axes are in striking conflict with the revo-
lutions of the satellites carried round them : and comets,
the most flimsy of bodies, calmly pursue their courses in
elliptic paths, altogether irrespective of the vortices which
they intersect. We may now also point to the inter-
lacing orbits of the minor planets as a new and insuper-
able difficulty in the way of the Cartesian ideas.
Newton, though he established the best of theories, was
also capable of proposing one of the worst ; and if we
want an instance of a theory decisr\ 1 v contradicted by
facts, we have only to turn to his views concerning the
origin of natural colours. Having analysed, with incom-
parable skill, the origin of the colours of thin plates, he
suggests that the colours of ah 1 bodies and substances are
determined in like manner by the size of their ultimate
particles. A thin plate of a definite thickness will reflect
a definite colour ; hence, if broken up into fragments it
will form a powder of the same colour. But, if this be a
sufficient explanation of coloured substances, then every
coloured fluid ought to reflect the complementary colour of
that which it transmits. Colourless transparency arises,
i ' Principia,' bk. II. Sect. ix. Prop. 53.
k Ibid. bk. III. Prop. 43. General Scholium.
L 2
