160 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
the three elementary combustible substances, diamond,
phosphorus, and sulphur, have by far the highest re-
fractive indices known in proportion to their densities c ,
and there are only a few substances, such as chromate of
lead or glass of antimony, known to exceed them in ab-
solute power of refraction. The oils and hydrocarbons
generally possess an excessive index. But this knowledge
remains to the present day purely empirical, no connexion
having been pointed out between this coincidence of in-
flammability and high refractive power, with other laws of
chemistry or optics. It is worthy of notice, however,
as pointed out by Brewster, that if Newton had argued
concerning two minerals, Greenockite arid Octahedrite, as
he did concerning diamond, his predictions would have
proved false. In the present day, the relation of the
refractive index to the density and atomic weight of a
substance is becoming a matter of theory ; yet there
remain specific differences of refractive power known only
on empirical grounds, and it is curious that in hydrogen
also an abnormally high refractive power has been found
to be joined to inflammability.
The science of chemistry, however much its theory may
have progressed, still presents us with a vast body of
empirical knowledge. Not only is it at present hopeless
to attempt to account for the particular group of qualities
belonging to each element, but there are multitudes of
particular facts of which no further account can be given.
Why should the sulphides of many metals be intensely
black 1 Why should a slight amount of phosphoric acid
have so great a power of interference with the crystalliza-
tion of vanadic acid d . Why should the compound silicates
of alkalies and alkaline metals be transparent ? Why
should gold be so highly ductile, and gold and silver the
c Brewster, ' Treatise on New Philosophical Instruments/ p. 266, &c.
d Roscoe, Bakerian Lecture, 'Philosophical Trans.' (1868), vol. clviii. p. 6.
