EMPIRICAL KNOWLEDGE, EXPLANATION, &c. 163
planes of cleavage, and a nearly complete comprehension
of the internal structure of crystalline substances was soon
the result. Here we see how much more was due to the
reasoning powers of the philosopher, than to an accident
which must often have happened to other persons.
In a similar manner, a purely fortuitous occurrence led
Malus to discover the polarization of light by reflection.
The phenomena of double refraction had, of course, been
long known, and when engaged in Paris in 1808, in
investigating the character of light thus polarized, Malus
chanced to look through a double refracting prism at the
light of the setting sun, reflected from the windows of the
Luxembourg Palace. In turning the prism round, he w T as
surprised to find that the ordinary image disappeared at
two opposite positions of the prism. He remarked that the
reflected light behaved exactly like light which had been
already polarized by passing through another prism. He
was induced to test the character of light reflected under
other circumstances, and it was eventually proved that
polarization is connected by invariable laws with the act of
reflection. Some of the most general laws of optics, pre-
viously unsuspected, were thus discovered by pure accident.
In the history of electricity, accident has had a large
part. For centuries some of the more common effects of
magnetism, or friction al electricity, had presented them-
selves as exceptional and unaccountable deviations from
the ordinary course of Nature. Accident must, of course,
have first directed attention to such phenomena, but how
few of those who witnessed them had any conception of
the all-pervading power thus manifested. The very
existence of the so-called galvanism, or electricity of
low tension, was unsuspected until Galvani accidentally
touched the leg of a frog with pieces of metal. The
decomposition of water by voltaic electricity is also said
to have been accidentally discovered by Nicholson in 1801,
M 2
