EMPIRICAL KNOWLEDGE, EXPLANATION, &c. 167
nature, which explains and harmonizes the motions of all
the heavenly bodies, that is, shows that there is a similar
force which governs all those motions, or the explanation
may involve nothing more than a single identity, as when
we explain the appearance of shooting stars by showing
that they are identical with portions of a comet. Wherever
we detect resemblance, there is a more or less satisfactory
explanation. The mind is always somewhat disquieted
when it meets a novel phenomena, one which is sui
generis; it seeks at once for any parallels which may be
found in the memory of past sensations. The so-called
sulphurous smell which attends a stroke of lightning long
excited the attention and fears of men, and it was not ex-
plained, until the exact similarity of the smell to that of
ozone, or allotropic oxygen, was pointed out. The marks
upon a flagstone are explained when they are shown
to correspond with the feet of an extinct animal, whose
bones are elsewhere found. Explanation, in fact, generally
commences by the discovery of some very simple re-
semblance ; the theory of the rainbow began as soon as
Antonio de Dominis pointed out the resemblance be-
tween its colours &id those presented by a ray of sun-
light passing through a glass globe full of water.
The nature and limits of explanation can only be fully
considered, after we have entered upon the subject of
generalization and analogy. It must suffice to remark, in
this place, that the most important process of explanation
consists in showing that an observed fact is only one case
of a general law or tendency. Iron is always found com-
bined with sulphur, when it is in contact with or included
in coal, whereas in other parts of the coal strata it always
occurs as a carbonate. We explain this empirical fact as
being due to the ordinary reducing powers of carbon and
hydrogen, which prevent the iron from combining with
oxygen, and leave it open to the affinity of the sulphur.
