182 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
and C may usually be made to produce a consequent of
the nature of A inverted in direction. When we apply
heat to a gas it tends to expand ; hence if we allow the
gas to expand by its own elastic force, cold is the result ;
that is B (air) and C (expansion) produce the negative of
A (heat). Or again, B (air) and compression, the nega-
tive of C, produce A (heat). Similar results may be ex-
pected in a multitude of cases. It is a most familiar law
that heat expands iron and nearly all solid bodies. What
may be expected, then, if instead of increasing the length
of an iron bar by heat we use mechanical force and stretch
the bar 1 Having the bar and the former consequent, ex-
pansion, we should expect the negative of the former
antecedent, namely cold. The truth of this inference was
proved by Dr. Joule, who investigated the amount of the
effect with his usual skill f .
This inversion of cause and effect in the case of heat
may be itself again inverted in a highly curious manner.
It happens that there are a few substances which are un-
explained exceptions to the general law of expansion by
heat. India-rubber especially is remarkable for contracting
when heated. Since, then, iron and india-rubber are oppo-
sitely related to heat, we may expect that as distension
of the iron produced cold, distension of the india-rubber
will produce heat. This is actually found to be the case,
and any one may detect the effect by suddenly stretching
an india-rubber band while the middle part is in the mouth.
Whenever stretched it will be found to grow slightly warm,
and when relaxed cold.
The reader will readily see that many of the scientific
predictions mentioned in preceding sections were due to
the principle of inversion ; for instance, Professor Thomp-
son's speculations on the relation of pressure and the
melting-point. But many other illustrations could be
f ' Philosophical Transactions/ (1855) vol. cxlv. pp. 100, &c.
