ACCORDANCE OF QUANTITATIVE THEORIES, &c. 203
conclusion that the velocity was not really more than
185,172 miles per second. No repetition of the experi-
ment as thus performed would shake this result, and there
was accordingly a discrepancy between the two astrono-
mical and the experimental results of about 7000 miles
per second demanding explanation.
Now a very little consideration show^s that both the
astronomical determinations involve the magnitude of the
earth's orbit as one datum, because our estimate of the
earth's velocity in its orbit depends upon our estimate of
the sun's mean distance. Accordingly as regards this
quantity the two astronomical results must count only
for one. Though the transit of Venus had been con-
sidered to give the best data for the calculation of the
sun's parallax and distance, yet astronomers had not neg-
lected other less favourable opportunities. Thus Hansen,
calculating from certain inequalities in the moon's motion,
had estimated it at 8" - 9 1 6 ; Winneke, from observations of
Mars, at 8"* 9 64 ; Leverrier, from the motions of Mars,
Venus, and the moon, at 8"' 9 50. Now these independent
results agree much better with each other than with that
of Bessel (8"'578) previously received, or that of Encke
(8"'58) deduced from the transits of Venus in 1761 and
1769, and though each separately might be worthy of less
credit, yet their close accordance renders their mean result
(8" '94 3) probably comparable in probability with that of
Bessel. It was further found that if Foucault's value for
the velocity of light were assumed to be correct, and the
sun's distance were inversely calculated from that and the
other requisite data, the sun's parallax would appear to
be 8 /A 96o, which closely agreed with the above mean
result. This further correspondence of independent re-
sults threw the balance of probability strongly against the
results of the transit of Venus, and rendered it desirable
to reconsider the observations made on that occasion.
