ACCORDANCE OF QUANTITATIVE THEORIES, <bc. 205
subject, we have often a wide choice opened to us as
regards the methods of measurement, which may thence-
forth be made to give the most accurate results. If we
can only measure one fundamental quantity we may often
be able by correct theory to assign with accuracy a great
many other quantitative results. Thus, if we can once
determine satisfactorily the atomic weights of certain ele-
ments, we do not need to determine with equal accuracy
the composition and atomic weights of their several com-
pounds. When we have once learnt the relative atomic
weights of oxygen and sulphur we can calculate the
composition by weight of the several oxides of sulphur.
Chemists accordingly select with the greatest care that
compound of any two elements which seems to allow of the
most accurate analysis so as to give the ratio of their
atomic weights. It is obvious that we only need to have
the ratio of the atomic weight of each element to that of
some other common element, in order to calculate with
the greatest ease that of each to each. Moreover the
atomic weight stands in simple relation to other quanti-
tative facts. The weights of equal volumes of elementary
gases at equal temperature and pressure have the same
ratio as the atomic weights ; now as nitrogen weighs 1 4*06
times as much as hydrogen, under such circumstances
we may infer that the atomic weight of nitrogen is about
14*06 (probably 14*00) that of hydrogen being unity.
There is much evidence, again, to show that the specific
heats of elements, and even of compounds, are inversely
as their atomic weights, so that these two classes of quan-
titative data throw light mutually upon each other. In
fact the atomic weight, the atomic volume, and the atomic
heat of an element, are quantities so closely connected
that the determination of any one may lead to that of the
others. The chemist accordingly has to solve a most com-
plicated problem in deciding in the case of each of 60 or
