210 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
considerably exceeded that obtained by any other method,
being no less than 6-566, or 6-623 as finally corrected.
In 1844 Sir John Herschel remarked in his Memoir of
Francis Baily f , that ' the mean specific gravity of this our
planet is, in all human probability, quite as well deter-
mined as that of an ordinary hand-specimen in a mine-
ralogical cabinet, a marvellous result, which should teach
us to despair of nothing which lies within the compass of
number, weight, and measure/ But at the same time he
pointed out that Baily's final result, cf which the probable
error was only 0*0032, was the highest of all determina-
tions then known, and Airy's investigation has since given
a much higher result, quite beyond the limits of probable
error of any of the previous experiments. If we treat all
determinations yet made as of equal weight, the simple
mean is about 5*45, the mean error nearly 0*5, and the
probable error almost 0*2, so that it is as likely as not that
the truth lies between 5-65 and 5*25 on this view of the
matter. But it is remarkable that the two most recent
and careful series of observations, by Baily and Airy?, lie
beyond these limits, and as with the increase of care the
estimate rises, it seems requisite to reject the earlier
results, and look upon the question as still requiring
further investigation. In this case we learn an impressive
lesson concerning the value of repeated determinations by
distinct methods in disabusing our minds of the reliance
which we are only too apt to place in results which show
a certain degree of coincidence.
Since the establishment of the dynamical theory of heat
it has become a matter of the greatest importance to
determine with accuracy and high probability the mecha-
nical equivalent of heat, or the quantity of energy which
f ' Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society' for 8th Nov.
1844, No. X, vol. vi. p. 89.
S 'Philosophical Magazine/ 2nd Series, vol. xxvi. p. 61.
