CHARACTER OF THE EXPERIMENTALIST. 223
many of the thoughts and theories which have passed
through the mind of a scientific investigator, have been
crushed in silence and secresy by his own severe criticism
and adverse examination ; that in the most successful
instances not a tenth of the suggestions, the hopes, the
wishes, the preliminary conclusions have been realized/
Nevertheless, in Faraday's researches published either
in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' or in minor papers, in
his manuscript note-books, or in various other materials,
fortunately made known in his interesting life by Dr.
Bence Jones, we find invaluable lessons for the experi-
mentalist. These writings are full of speculations which
we must not judge by the light of subsequent discovery.
It may even be said that Faraday sometimes committed
to the printing press crude ideas which a cautious friend
would have counselled him to keep back or suppress. There
was occasionally even a wildness and vagueness in his
notions, which in a less careful experimentalist might have
been fatal to the attainment of truth. This is especially
apparent in a curious paper concerning Kay-vibrations ;
but fortunately Faraday was fully aware of the shadowy
character of his speculations, and expressed the feeling
in words which must be quoted. * I think it likely/ he
says a , * that I have made many mistakes in the preceding
pages, for even to myself my ideas on this point appear
only as the shadow of a speculation, or as one of those
impressions upon the mind, which are allowable for a time
as guides to thought and research. He who labours in
experimental inquiries knows how numerous these are,
and how often their apparent fitness and beauty vanish
before the progress and development of real natural
truth/ If, then, the experimentalist has no royal road
to the discovery of the truth, it is an interesting matter
a ' Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics,' p. 372.
Philosophical Magazine, 3rd Series, May 1846, vol. xxviii. p. 350.
