228 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
strikes the reader of the work as the exhaustiveness of his
treatment, and the almost infinite power of his insight.
If he treats of central forces, it is not any one law of force
which he discusses, but many, or almost all imaginable
cases, the laws and results of each of which he sketches
out in a few pregnant words. If his subject is a resisting
medium, it is not air or water alone, nor any one resisting
medium, but resisting media in general. We have a
good example of his method in the Scholium to the twenty-
second proposition of the second book, in which he runs
rapidly over many possible suppositions as to the laws of
the compressing forces which might conceivably act in an
atmosphere of gas, a consequence being drawn from each
case, and that one hypothesis ultimately selected which
yields results agreeing with experiments upon the pressure
and density of the terrestrial atmosphere.
Newton said that he did not frame hypotheses, but, in
reality, the greater part of the ' Principia ' is purely hypo-
thetical, endless varieties of causes and laws being ima-
gined which have no counterpart in nature. The most
grotesque hypotheses of Kepler or Descartes were not
more imaginary. But Newton's comprehension of logical
method was perfect ; no hypothesis was entertained unless
it was definite in conditions, and admitted of unquestion-
able deductive reasoning ; and the value of each hypo-
thesis was entirely decided by the comparison of its conse-
quences with facts. I do not entertain a doubt that the
general course of his procedure is identical with that view
of the nature of induction, as the inverse application of
deduction, which I have advocated throughout these
volumes. Francis Bacon held that science should be
founded on experience, but he wholly mistook the true
mode of using experience, and in attempting to apply his
method he ludicrously failed. Newton did not less found
his method on experience, but he seized the true method
