CHARACTER OF THE EXPERIMENTALIST. 229
of treating it, and applied it with a power and success
never since equalled. It is wholly a mistake to say that
modern science is the result of the Baconian philosophy ;
it is the Newtonian philosophy and the Newtonian method
which have led to all the great triumphs of physical
science, and I repeat that the ' Principia ' forms the true
( Novum Organum.'
In bringing his theories to a decisive experimental veri-
fication, Newton showed, as a general rule, an exquisite
skill and ingenuity. In his hands a few simple pieces of
apparatus were made to give results involving an unsus-
pected depth of meaning. His most beautiful experimental
inquiry was that by which he proved the differing refran-
gibility of rays of light. To suppose that he originally
discovered the power of a prism to break up a beam of
white light would be a great mistake, for he speaks of
procuring a glass prism to try the celebrated phenomena
of colours. But we certainly owe to him the theory that
white light is a mixture of rays differing in refran-
gibility, and that lights which differ in colour, differ also
in refrangibility. Other persons might have conceived
this theory ; in fact, any person regarding refraction as a
quantitative effect, must see that different parts of the
spectrum have suffered different amounts of refraction.
But the power of Newton is shown in the tenacity with
which he followed his theory into every consequence,
and tested each result by a simple but conclusive experi-
ment. He first shows that different coloured spots are
displaced by different amounts when viewed through a
prism, and that their images come to a focus at different
distances from the lense, as they should do, if the refran-
gibility differed. After excluding by various experiments
a variety of indifferent circumstances, he fixes his atten-
tion upon the question whether the rays are merely
shattered, disturbed, and spread out in a chance manner,
