236 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
heavy glass, but solids and liquids, acids and alkalis,
oils, water, alcohol, ether, all possess this power ; but he
was not able to detect its existence in any gaseous sub-
stance. His thoughts cannot be restrained from running
into curious speculations as to the possible results of the
power in certain cases. ' What effect,' he says, ' does this
force have in the earth where the magnetic curves of the
earth traverse its substance ? Also what effect in a mag-
net?' And then he falls upon the wholly original notion
that perhaps this force tends to make iron and oxide of
iron transparent, a phenomenon never previously or since
observed. We can meet with nothing more instructive
as to the course of mind by which great discoveries are
made, than these records of Faraday's patient labours,
and his varied success and failure. Nor are his unsuccess-
ful labours upon the relation of gravity and electricity
less interesting, and worthy of study.
Throughout a large part of his life, Faraday was pos-
sessed by the idea that gravity cannot be unconnected
with the other forces of nature. On March lo/th, 1849,
he wrote in his laboratory book ' Gravity. Surely this
force must be capable of an experimental relation to elec-
tricity, magnetism, and the other forces, so as to bind it
up with them in reciprocal action and equivalent effect 11 .'
He filled twenty paragraphs or more with reflections and
suggestions, as to the mode of approaching the subject
by experiment. He anticipated that the approach of one
body to another would develope electricity in them, or
that a body falling through a conducting helix would
excite a current changing in direction as the motion was
reversed. ' All this is a dream,' he remarks ; * still ex-
amine it by a few experiments. Nothing is too wonderful
to be true, if it be consistent with the laws of nature;
h See also his more formal statement in the ' Experimental Researches
in Electricity,' 24th Series, 2702, vol. iii. p. 161.
