250 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
The very use of science consists in enabling us to act with
confidence, because we can foresee the result. Now this
foresight must rest upon the knowledge of the powers
which will come into play. That knowledge, indeed, can
never be certain, because it rests upon imperfect induc-
tion, and the most confident beliefs and predictions of the
physicist may be falsified. Nevertheless, if we always
estimate the probability of each belief according to the
due teaching of the data, and bear in mind that probability
when forming our anticipations, we shall ensure the mini-
mum of disappointment. Even when he cannot exactly
apply the theory of probabilities, the physicist may acquire
the habit of making judgments in general agreement with
its principles and results.
Such is the constitution of nature, that the physicist
soon learns to distinguish those properties which have
wide and uniform extension, from those which vary
between case and case. Not only are certain laws dis-
tinctly laid down, with their extension carefully defined,
but a scientific training gives a kind of tact in judging
how far other laws are likely to apply under any parti-
cular circumstances. We learn by degrees that crystals
exhibit phenomena depending upon the directions of the
axes of elasticity, which we must not expect in uniform
solids. Liquids, compared even with non -crystalline
solids, exhibit laws of far less complexity and variety ;
and gases assume, in many respects, an aspect of nearly
complete uniformity. To trace out the branches of science
in which varying degrees of generality prevail, would be
found to be an inquiry of great interest and importance ;
but want of space, if there were no other reason, would
forbid me to attempt it, except in a very slight manner.
Gases, so far as they are really gaseous, not only have ex-
actly the same properties in all directions of space, but one
gas exactly resembles other gases in a great many qualities.
