264 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
expected to exhibit great apparent differences of conduct,
arising simply from the very various intensity of the forces
brought into play. Many persons have thought it requi-
site to imagine occult forces producing the suspension of
the clouds, and there have even been absurd theories
representing cloud particles as minute water-balloons
buoyed up by the warm air within them. But we have
only to take proper account of the enormous comparative
resistance which the air opposes to the fall of minute
particles, to see that all cloud particles are probably con-
stantly falling through the air, but so slowly that there
is no apparent effect. Mineral matter again is always
regarded as inert and incapable of spontaneous movement.
We are struck by astonishment on observing in a power-
ful microscope, that every kind of solid matter suspended
in extremely minute particles in pure water, acquires an
oscillatory movement, often so marked as to resemble
dancing or skipping. I conceive that this movement is
entirely due to the vast comparative intensity of chemical
actions when exerted upon minute particles, the effect
being 5000 or 10,000 greater in proportion to the mass
than in fragments of an inch diameter (vol. ii. p. 9).
Much that was formerly obscure in the science of elec-
tricity, arose from the extreme differences of intensity
and quantity in which this form of energy manifests
itself. Between the instantaneous and brilliant discharge
of a thunder-cloud and the gentle continuous current pro-
duced by two pieces of metal and some dilute acid, there
was no apparent analogy whatever. It was therefore a
work of great importance when Faraday demonstrated
the identity of the forces in action, showing that common
frictional electricity would decompose water like that from
the voltaic battery. The relation of the phenomena be-
came plain when he succeeded in showing that it would
require 800,000 discharges of his large Ley den battery to
