GENERALIZA TION. 265
decompose one single grain of water. Lightning was now
seen to be electricity of excessively high tension, but
extremely small quantity, the difference being somewhat
analogous to that between the force of one million gallons
of water falling through one foot, and one gallon of water
falling through one million feet. Faraday estimated that
one grain of water acting on four grains of zinc, would
yield electricity enough for a great thunderstorm.
It was long believed that electrical conductors and in-
sulators belonged to two opposed classes of substances.
Between the inconceivable rapidity with which the cur-
rent passes through pure copper wire, and the apparently
complete manner in which it is stopped by a thin parti-
tion of gutta-percha or gum-lac, there seemed to be no
resemblance. Faraday, again, laboured successfully to show
that these were but the extreme cases of a chain of sub-
stances varying in all degrees in their powers of conduc-
tion. Even the best conductors, such as pure copper or
silver offer some resistance to the electric current. The
other metals have considerably higher powers of resist-
ance, and we pass gradually down through oxides and
sulphides. The best insulators, on the other hand, allow
of an atomic induction which is the necessary antecedent
of conduction. Hence Faraday inferred that whether we
can measure the effect or not, ah 1 substances discharge
electricity more or less r . One consequence of this doctrine
must be, that every discharge of electricity produces an
induced current. In the case of the common galvanic
current we can readily detect the induced current in any
parallel wire or other neighbouring conductor, and can
separate the opposite currents which arise at the moments
when the original currents begin and end. But a dis-
charge of high tension electricity like lightning, though
it certainly occupies time and has a beginning and an end,
r 'Experimental Researches in Electricity,' Series xii. vol. i. p. 420.
