GENERALIZA TION. 269
what is true of one case will be true of similar cases, and
probably true of what are probably similar. Whenever
we find that a law or similarity is rigorously fulfilled up
to a certain point in time or space, we expect with a very
high degree of probability that it will continue to be ful-
filled at least a little longer. If we see part of a circle,
we naturally expect that the form of the line will be
maintained in the part hidden from us. If a body has
moved uniformly over a certain space/we expect that it
will continue to move uniformly. The ground of such
inference is doubtless identical with that of all other in-
ductive inferences. In continuous motion every infinitely
small space passed over constitutes a separate constituent
fact, and had we perfect powers of observation the smallest
finite motion would include an infinity of information, which,
by the principles of the inverse method of probabilities,
would enable us to infer with actual certainty to the next
infinitely small portion of the path. But when we attempt
to infer from one finite portion of a path to another finite
part, the inference will be only more or less probable,
according to the comparative lengths of the parts and
the accuracy of the observations ; the longer our expe-
rience is, the more probable our inferences will be ; the
greater the length of time or space over which the in-
ference extends, the less probable.
This principle of continuity presents itself in nature
in a great variety of forms and cases. It is familiarly
expressed in the dictum Natura non a git per saltum, in
other words, no change in a natural phenomenon comes
on with perfect suddenness or abruptness. There is always
some notice some forewarning of every phenomenon, and
every change begins by insensible degrees, could we observe
it with perfect accuracy. The cannon ball, indeed, is forced
from the cannon in an inappreciable portion of time ; the
trigger is pulled, the fuze fired, the powder inflamed, the
