GENERA LIZA TION. 2 7 1
longer in movement. A delicately suspended pendulum
is almost free from friction against its supports, but it is
gradually stopped by the resistance of the air ; place
it in the vacuous receiver of an air-pump and we find
the motion immensely prolonged. A large planet like
Jupiter experiences almost infinitely less friction, in
comparison to its vast momentum, than we can produce
experimentally, and we find through centuries that there
is not the least evidence of the falsity of the law. Expe-
rience, then, informs us that we may approximate indefi-
nitely to a uniform motion by sufficiently decreasing the
disturbing forces. It is a pure act of inference which
enables us to travel on beyond experience, and assert that,
in the total absence of any extraneous force, motion would
be absolutely uniform. The state of rest, again, is but a
singular case in which motion is infinitely small or zero,
to which we may attain, on the principle of continuity, by
considering successively cases of slower and slower motion.
There are many interesting cases of physical pheno-
mena, in which, by gradually passing from the apparent
to the obscure, we can assure ourselves of the nature of
phenomena which would otherwise be a matter of great
doubt. Thus we can sufficiently prove, in the manner of
Galileo, that a musical sound consists of rapid uniform
pulses, by causing strokes to be made at intervals which
we gradually dimmish until the separate strokes coalesce
into a uniform hum or note. With great advantage we
approach, as TyndaU says, the sonorous through the
grossly mechanical. In listening to a great organ we
cannot fail to perceive that the longest pipes, or their
partial tones, produce a tremor and fluttering of the
building. At the other extremity of the scale, there is
no fixed limit to the acuteness of sounds which we
can hear ; some individuals can hear sounds too shrill for
other ears, and as there is nothing in the nature of the
