GENERALIZATION. 277
endless chain to be hung over the planes, and to hang
below in a symmetrical festoon. If the chain were ever
to move by gravity, there would be the same reason for
its moving on for ever, and thus producing a perpetual
motion. As this is absurd, the portions of the chain
lying on the planes, and equal in length to the planes,
must balance each other. On similar grounds we may
disprove the existence of any self-moving machine, for if
it could once alter its own state of motion or rest, in how-
ever small a degree, there is no reason why it should not
do the like time after time ad infinitum. Even Newton's
proof of his third law of motion, in the case of gravity, is
of this character. For he remarks that if two gravitating
bodies do not exert exactly equal forces in opposite direc-
tions, the one exerting the strongest pull will carry both
itself and the other away, and will move with constantly
increasing velocity ad infinitum. But though the argu-
ment might seem sufficiently convincing, Newton in his
characteristic way made an experiment with a loadstone
and iron floated upon the surface of water f . In recent
years the very foundation of the principle of conservation
of energy has been placed on the assumption that it is
impossible by any combination whatever of natural bodies
to produce force continually from nothing . The principle
admits of frequent application in various subtle forms.
Lucretius attempted to prove, by a most ingenious argu-
ment of this kind, that matter must be indestructible.
For if a definite quantity, however small, were to fall out
of existence in any finite time, an equal quantity might
be supposed to lapse in every equal interval of time, so
that in the infinity of past time the universe must have
ceased to exist h . But the argument, however ingenious,
f * Principia/ bk. I. Law iii. Corollary 6.
Helmholtz, Taylor's ' Scientific Memoirs' (1853), vol. vi. p. 118.
fa ' Lucretius/ bk. I. lines 232-264.
