200 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
geometric problems. It is true that Regiomontanus, Tar-
taglia, Bombelli, and possibly other early algebraists, solved
isolated geometrical problems by the aid of algebra, but
particular numbers were always used, and no consciousness
of a general method was displayed. Vieta in some degree
anticipated the final discovery, and occasionally represented
the roots of an equation geometrically, but it was reserved
for Descartes to show, in the most general manner, that
every equation may be represented by some curve or
figure in space, and that every bend, point, cusp, or other
peculiarity in the curve indicates some peculiarity in the
values of the algebraic symbols. It is impossible to describe
in any adequate manner the importance of this discovery.
The advantage was twofold : algebra aided geometry, and
geometry gave reciprocal aid to algebra. Curves such as
the long described sections of the cone were found to
correspond to quadratic equations of no great difficulty ;
and it was impossible to manipulate the symbolic equa-
tions without discovering properties of those all important
curves. The way was thus opened for the algebraic treat-
ment of motions and forces, without which Newton's
' Principia ' could never have been worked out. Newton
indeed was possessed by a strange and, to some extent,
unfortunate infatuation in favour of the ancient geome-
trical methods ; but it is weh 1 known that he employed
symbolic methods to discover his profound truths, and he
every now and then, by some accidental use of algebraic
expressions, confessed its greater powers and generality.
Geometry, on the other hand, gave the greatest assist-
ance to algebra, by affording concrete representations of
relations which would otherwise be too abstract for easy
comprehension. A curve of no great complexity may
give the whole history of the variations of value of a
troublesome mathematical expression. As soon as we
know, too, that every regular geometrical curve repre-
