292 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
existence like force demands much power of conception,
but it has a perfect concrete representative in a line, the
end of which may denote the point of application, and the
direction the line of action of the force, while the length
can be made arbitrarily to denote the amount of the force.
Nor does the analogy end here ; for the moment of the
force about any point, or its product into the perpen-
dicular distance of its line of action from the point, is
found to be correctly represented by an area, namely
twice the area of the triangle contained between the
point and the ends of the line representing the force.
Of late years a great generalization has been effected ;
the Double Algebra of De Morgan is true not only of
space relations, but of forces, so that the triangle offerees
is reduced to a case of pure geometrical addition. Nay,
the triangle of lines, the triangle of velocities, the triangle
of forces, the triangle of couples, and perhaps other
cognate theorems, are reduced by analogy to one simple
theorem, which amounts merely to this, that there are
two ways of getting from .one angular point of a triangle
to another, which ways, though different in length, are
identical in their final results f . In the wonderful system
of quaternions of the late Sir W. R. Hamilton, these
analogies are embodied and carried out in the most
general manner, so that whatever problem involves the
threefold dimensions of space, or relations analogous to
those of space, is treated by a symbolic method of the
most comprehensive simplicity. Since nearly all physical
problems do involve space relations, or those analogous
to them, it is difficult to imagine any limits to the work
which may be ultimately achieved by this calculus.
It ought to be added that to the discovery of analogy
f See Goodwin, 'Cambridge Philosophical Transactions' (1845),
vol. viii. p. 269. O'Brien, * On Symbolical Statics/ Philosophical
Magazine, 4th Series, vol. i. pp. 491 &c.
