294 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
movement we pass by analogy to waves of sound, varying
in length from about 32 feet to a small fraction of an inch.
We have but to imagine, if we can, the fortieth octave of
the middle C of a piano, and we reach the undulations of
yellow light, the ultra-violet being about the forty-first
octave. Thus we pass gradually from the palpable and evi-
dent to that which is obscure, if not incomprehensible. Yet
the very same phenomena of reflection, interference, and
refraction, which we find in the one case, may be expected
to occur mutatis mutandis in the other cases.
From the great to the small, from the evident to the
obscure, is not only the natural order in which inference
proceeds, but it is the historical order of discovery. The
physical science of the Greek philosophers must have re-
mained incomplete, and their theories groundless, because
they do not seem ever to have understood the nature and
importance of undulations. All their systems were there-
fore based upon the entirely different notion of continuous
movement of translation from place to place. Modern
Science tends more and more to the opposite conclusion
that all motion is alternating or rhythmical, energy
flowing onwards but matter remaining comparatively
fixed in position. Diogenes Laertius indeed correctly
compared the propagation of sound with the spreading of
waves on the surface of water when disturbed by a stone,
and Vitruvius displayed a more complete comprehension
of the same analogy. It remained for Newton to create
the theory of undulatory motion in showing by mathe-
matical deductive reasoning that the particles of an elastic
fluid, by vibrating backwards and forwards, might carry-
forward a pulse or wave moving onwards from the source
of disturbance, while the disturbed particles return to their
place of rest. He was even able to make a first approxi-
mation by theoretical calculation to the velocitv of sound-
waves in the atmosphere. His theory of sound formed a
