310 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
to be Is there any breach of the law at all ? It may
be that the supposed exceptional fact is not a fact at
all, that it is a mere figment of the imagination. When
King Charles requested the Eoyal Society to investigate
the curious fact that a live fish put into a bucket of
water does not increase the weight of the bucket and
its contents, the Eoyal Society wisely commenced their
deliberations by inquiring whether the fact was so or not.
Every statement, however false, must have some cause or
prior condition, and the real question for the Royal Society
to investigate was, how the King came to think that the
fact was so. Mental conditions, as we have seen (vol. ii.
p. 4), enter into all acts of observation, and are often a
worthy subject of inquiry. But there are many instances
in the history of physical science, in which much trouble
and temporary error have been caused by false assertions
carelessly made, and carelessly accepted without experi-
mental verification.
The reception of the Copernican theory was much im-
peded by the objection, that jf the earth were perpetually
moving, a stone dropped from the top of a high tower
should be left behind, and should appear to move towards
the west, just as a stone dropped from the mast-head of
a moving ship would fall behind, owing to the motion of
the ship. The Copernicans attempted to meet this grave
objection in every way but the true one, namely, that of
showing by trial that the asserted facts are not correct
ones. In the first place, if a stone had been dropped with
suitable precautions from the mast-head of a moving ship,
it would have fallen close to the foot of the mast, because
by the first law of motion it would remain in the same
state of horizontal motion communicated to it by the
mast. As the anti-Copernicans had assumed the contrary
result as certain to ensue, their argument would of course
have fallen through at once. Had the Copernicans next
