EXCEPTIONAL PHENOMENA. 315
would require the sine of an angle to be greater than the
radius. It might seem, perhaps, that this was an exception
of the kind elsewhere described as a limiting exception, in
which a law is shown to be inapplicable beyond certain de-
fined limits ; but in the explanation of the exception
according to the undulatory theory, we find that there
is really no breach or exception to the general law.
Whenever an undulation strikes any point in a bounding
surface, spherical waves are produced and spread from
the point. The refracted ray is the resultant of an infi-
nite number of such spherical waves, and the bending of
the ray at the common surface of two media depends upon
the comparative velocities of propagation of the undula-
tions in those media. But if a ray falls very obliquely
upon the surface of a rarer medium, the waves arising
from successive points of the surface may spread so rapidly
as never to intersect, and no resultant wave will then be
produced. We thus perceive that from general mathe-
matical conditions may arise very distinct apparent effects.
There may occur from time to time distinct failures in
our most well-grounded predictions. A comet, of which
the orbit has been well determined, may fail, like Lexell's
Comet, to appear at the appointed time and place in the
heavens. In the present day we should not hold such an
exception to our successful predictions to weigh against
our belief in the theory of gravitation, but should assume
that some unknown body had through the action of gravi-
tation itself deflected the comet. As Clairaut remarked,
in publishing his calculations concerning the expected re-
appearance of Halley's Comet, a body which passes into
regions so remote, and which is hidden from our view
during such long periods, might be exposed to the influ-
ence of forces totally unknown to us, such as the action
of other comets, or even of some planet too far removed
from the sun to be ever perceived by us. In the case of
