EXCEPTIONAL PHENOMENA. 317
in the heavens an apparent relative motion of rotation
from east to west ; but out of countless thousands which
obey the rule the Pole Star alone seems to break it.
Exact observations indeed show that it also revolves
in a small circle, but it might happen for a short time
that a star existed so close to the pole that no appreciable
change of place would be caused by the daily rotation.
It would then constitute a perfect singular exception ;
for, while really obeying the law, it would break the terms
in which it is usually stated. In the same way the poles
of every revolving body are singular points.
Whenever the laws of nature are reduced to a mathe-
matical form we may expect to meet with singular cases,
and, as all the physical sciences will meet in the mathema-
tical principles of mechanics, there is no part of nature
where we may not probably encounter them. In me-
chanical science itself the circular motion of rotation may
be considered a single exception to the rectilineal motion
of translation. It is a general law that any number of
parallel forces, whether acting in the same or opposite
directions, will have a resultant which may be substituted
for them with like effect. This resultant will be equal
to the algebraic sum of the forces, or the difference of
those, acting in one direction and the other ; it will pass
through a point which is determined by a simple formula,
and which may be described as the mean point of all the
points of application of the parallel forces (vol. i. p. 422).
Thus we readily determine the resultant of parallel forces,
except in one peculiar case, namely, when two forces are
equal and opposite but not in the same straight line.
Being equal and opposite the amount of the resultant is
nothing, yet, as the forces are not in the same straight
line, they do not balance and destroy each other. Exami-
ning the formula for the point of application of the re-
sultant, we find that it gives an infinitely great magnitude,
