318 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
so that the resultant is nothing at all, and acts at an infi-
nite distance, which is practically the same as to say that
there is no possible single resultant. Two such forces
constitute what is known in mechanical science as a couple,
which occasions rotatory instead of rectilineal motion, and
can only be neutralized by an equal and opposite couple
or pair of forces.
The most beautiful instances of singular exceptions are
furnished by the science of optics. It is a general law,
for instance, that in passing through transparent media
the plane of vibration of polarized light remains un-
changed. But in certain cases, to which reference has
already been frequently made, namely, certain liquids,
some peculiar crystals of quartz, and transparent solid
media subjected to a magnetic strain, as in Faraday's ex-
periment (vol ii. pp. 234, 287), the plane of polarization is
rotated in a screw-like manner. This effect is so entirely
sui generis, so unlike any other phenomena in nature, as
to appear truly exceptional ; yet mathematical, analysis
shows it to be only a single case of much more general
laws. As stated by Thomson and Tait f , it arises from
the composition of two uniform circular motions. If
while a point is moving round a circle, the centre of that
circle move upon another circle, a great variety of curious
curves will be produced according as we vary the dimen-
sions of the circles or the rapidity of the motions. In
one case where the two circles are exactly equal, the point
will be found to move gradually round the centre of the
stationary circle, and describe a curious star-like figure
connected with the molecular motions out of which the
rotational power of the media arises. Among other sin-
gular exceptions in optics may be placed the conical refrac-
tion of light, already noticed (vol. ii. p. 175), connected
with the peculiar form assumed by a wave of light when
f ' Treatise on Natural Philosophy,' vol. i. p. 50.
