EXCEPTIONAL PHENOMENA. 321
the principles of probability, sometimes to deeper reasons.
Among every large collection of persons, we shall probably
find some persons who are remarkably large or remark-
ably small, giants or dwarfs, whether in bodily or mental
conformation. Such cases appear to be not mere lusus
natures, since they usually occur with a frequency closely
accordant with the law of error or divergence from an
average, as shown by M. Quetelet and Mr. Gal ton (vol. i.
p. 446). The rise of genius, or the occurrence of extra-
ordinary musical or mathematical faculties, are attributed
by M. Galton to the same principle of divergence.
Under this class of exceptions I am inclined to place
all kinds of remarkable events arising from an unusual
conjunction of many ordinary tendencies. When several
distinct forces happen to concur together, we may have
surprising or alarming results. Great storms, floods,
droughts and other extreme deviations from the average
condition of the atmosphere thus arise. They must be
expected to happen from time to time, and will yet
be very unfrequent compared with minor disturbances.
They are not anomalous but only extreme events,
exactly analogous to extreme runs of luck. There seems,
indeed, to be a fallacious impression in the minds of many
persons, that the theory of probabilities necessitates uni-
formity in the happening of events, so that in the same
space of time there will always be closely the same
number, for instance, of railway accidents and murders.
Buckle has superficially remarked upon the comparative
constancy of many such events as ascertained by Quetelet,
and some of his readers acquire the false notion that
there is a kind of mysterious inexorable law producing
uniformity in natural and human affairs. But nothing
can be more opposed to the teachings of the theory of
probability, which always contemplates the occurrence of
extreme and unusual runs of luck. That theory shows
VOL. II. Y
