322 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
the great improbability that the number of railway acci-
dents per month should be always equal, or nearly so.
The public attention is strongly attracted to any unusual
conjunction of events, but there is a fallacious tendency to
suppose that every such conjunction must be due to a
peculiar new cause coming into operation. Unless it can
be clearly shown that such unusual conjunctions occur
more frequently than they should do according to the
theory of probabilities, we should regard them as merely
divergent exceptions.
Eclipses and remarkable conjunctions of the heavenly
bodies may also be regarded as results of ordinary laws,
which nevertheless appear to break the regular course
of nature, and never fail to excite surprise or even fear.
Such conjunctions of bodies vary greatly in frequency.
One or other of the satellites of Jupiter is eclipsed almost
every day, but the simultaneous eclipse of three satellites
can only take place, according to the calculations of War-
gentin, after the lapse of 1,317,900 years. The relations of
the four satellites are so remarkable, that it is actually im-
possible, according to the theory of gravity, that they should
all suffer eclipse simultaneously. But it may happen occa-
sionally that while some of the satellites are really eclipsed
by entering Jupiter's shadow, the others are either occulted
or rendered invisible by passing over his disk, as seen by
us. Thus on four occasions, in 1681, 1802, 1826, and 1843,
Jupiter has been witnessed in the singular condition of
being apparently deprived of satellites. A close conjunc-
tion of two planets always excites surprise and admira-
tion, though conjunctions must naturally occur at intervals
in the ordinary course of their motions. We cannot
wonder, then, that when three or four planets approach
each other closely, the event is long remembered. A most
exceptional conjunction of Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, and Mer-
cury, which took place in the year 2446 B.C., was adopted
