EXCEPTIONAL PHENOMENA. 323
by the Chinese Emperor, Chuen Hio, as a new epoch for
the chronology of that Empire, though there is some
doubt whether the conjunction was really observed or was
calculated from the supposed laws of motion of the planets.
It is certain that on the i ith November, 1524, the planets
Venus, Jupiter, Mars, and Saturn were seen very close
together, while Mercury was only distant by about 16 or
thirty apparent diameters of the sun, this conjunction being
probably the most remarkable which has occurred in his-
torical times.
Among the perturbations of the planetary motions* we
may find divergent exceptions arising from the peculiar
accumulation or intensification of effects, as in the case of
the long inequality of Jupiter and Saturn (vol. ii. p. 70).
Leverrier has shown that there is one place between the
orbits of Mercury and Venus, and another between those
of Mars and Jupiter, in either of which, if a small planet
happened to exist, it would suffer comparatively immense
disturbance in the elements of its orbit. Now between Mars
and Jupiter there do occur the minor planets, the orbits
of which are in many cases exceptionally diver gent &.
It is worthy of notice that even in such a subject as
formal logic, divergent exceptions seem to occur, not of
course due to chance, but exhibiting in an unusual degree
a phenomenon which is more or less manifested in all other
cases. I pointed out in p. 163 of the first volume, that
propositions of .the general type A = BC ! be are capable
of expression in six equivalent logical forms, so that they
manifest in a higher degree than any other proposition
yet discovered, the phenomenon of logical equivalency.
Under the head of divergent exceptions we might
doubtless place all or nearly all of the instances of sub-
stances possessing physical properties in a very high or
low degree, which were described in the chapter on
g Grant's ' History of Physical Astronomy/ p. 116.
Y 2
