332 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
it preserves throughout its course until extinguished. This
is indeed but one case of the general principle of undula-
tory movement, which Sir John . Herschel has stated in
the most complete manner under the title, 'Principle of
Forced Vibrations' (vol. ii. p. 65), and has asserted to be
absolutely universal and without exception. But Sir John
Herschel himself described in the * Philosophical Transac-
tions' for 1845 a curious appearance in a solution of qui-
nine ; as viewed by transmitted light the solution appeared
colourless, but in certain aspects it possessed a beautiful
celestial blue tint. Curiously enough the coloured light
comes only from the first portion of liquid which the
light enters. Similar phenomena in fluor-spar had been
described by Sir D. Brewster in 1838. Professor Stokes,
having minutely investigated the phenomena, discovered
that they were more or less present in almost all vegetable
infusions, and in a number of mineral substances. He
came to the conclusion that this phenomenon, called by
him Fluorescence, could only be explained by a degrada-
tion or alteration in the refrangibility of the rays of light ;
he asserts, in fact, that light- rays of very short length of
vibration in falling upon certain atoms excite undulations
of greater length, in total opposition to the principle of
forced vibrations. No complete explanation of the mode
of change is yet possible, because it evidently depends
upon the intimate constitution of the atoms of the sub-
stances concerned ; but Professor Stokes believes that the
principle of forced vibrations is true only so long as the
excursions of an atom are very small compared with
the magnitude of the complex molecules 11 . It is now also
well known that in Calorescence the refrangibility of rays
may be increased and the wave-length diminished. Rays
of obscure heat and low refrangibility may be concentrated
so as to heat a solid substance, and make it give out rays
n 'Philosophical Transactions' (1852), vol. cxlii. pp. 465, 548, &c.
