350 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
sition. The identically same substance, again, is occa-
sionally found crystallized in two essentially different
crystallographic forms ; calcium carbonate, for instance,
appearing as calc-spar and arragonite. Now the simple
truth is that if we are unable to discover any correspond-
ence, or, as we shall call it, any correlation between the
several properties of a mineral, we cannot make any one
arrangement which will enable us to treat at any one
time all these properties. We must really classify mine-
rals in as many different methods as there are different
unrelated properties of sufficient importance. Even if,
for the purpose of describing minerals successively in
some one order in a treatise, we select one system, that,
for instance, having regard to chemical composition, we
ought mentally at least to regard the same minerals as
classified in all other possible modes.
Exactly the same may be said of the classification of
plants. An immense number of different modes of classi-
fying plants have been proposed at one time or other,
an exhaustive account of which will be found in Rees'
' Cyclopaedia/ article ' Classification/ or in the Introduc-
tion to Lindley's ' Vegetable Kingdom/ There have been
the Fructistae, such as Csesalpinus, Morison, Hermann,
Boerhaave or Gaertner, who arranged plants according
to the form of the fruit. The Corollistas, Eivinus, Lud-
wig, and Tournefort, paid attention chiefly to the number
or arrangement of the parts of the corolla. Magnol se-
lected the calyx as the critical part, while Sauvage
arranged plants according to their leaves ; nor are these
instances more than a small selection from the actual
variety of modes of classification which have been tried.
Of such attempts it may be said that every proposed sys-
tem will probably yield some information concerning the
relations of plants, and it is only after trying many modes
that it is possible to approximate to the best.
