366 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
ability. The more recently discovered and rare tellurium
presents greater difficulties, for it has many of the physical
properties of metal, and yet all its chemical properties are
analogous to those of sulphur and selenium which have
never been regarded as metals. Great chemical differences
again are by degrees discovered between the five metals
just mentioned; and the class, if it is to have any chemical
validity, must be made to include other elements, having
none of the original properties, on which the class was
founded. Hydrogen is a transparent colourless gas and
the least dense of all substances, yet in its chemical ana-
logies it is a metal, as suggested by Faraday m in 1838,
and almost proved by the late Professor Graham ; it
must be placed in the same class as silver. In this way
it comes to pass that almost every classification which is
proposed in the early stages of a science will be found
to break down as the deeper similarities of the objects
come to be detected. The most obvious points of differ-
ence will have to be neglected. Chlorine is a gas, bromine
a liquid, and iodine a solid, and at first sight these might
have seemed formidable circumstances to overlook ; but in
chemical analogy the substances are closely united. The
progress of organic chemistry, too, has yielded wholly new
ideas of the similarities of compounds. Who, for instance,
would recognise without extensive research a close simi-
larity between glycerine and alcohol, or between fatty sub-
stances and ether. The class of paraffins contains three
substances gaseous at ordinary temperatures, several
liquids, and some crystalline solids. It required much in-
sight to detect the perfect affinity which exists between
such apparently different substances.
The science of chemistry now depends to a great extent
on a correct classification of the elements, as will be learnt
by consulting the able article on Classification by Pro-
m ' Life of Faraday,' vol. ii. p. 87.
