CLASSIFICATION. 385
regarded by some persons as its inventors. The Ramean
Tree is a name frequently employed instead of the Por-
phyrian Tree, or the *A>a, that is, the Ladder of Por-
phyry, as it was sometimes called by the Greek logicians.
Although I have looked through several commentaries
upon the Dialectics of Eamus, I do not find that very
much is said upon the subject. In the Questions of
Frederick Beurhusius r , the method of dichotomy is
described as 'ilia naturalis et antiquissimorum philoso-
phorum prsestantissima Dichotomia,' but in none of the
works do I find the Tree itself given.
Among modern logicians Jeremy Bentham possesses
the great merit of having drawn attention to the logical
importance of bifurcate division. His remarks on the
subject are contained in that extraordinary collection of
digressive, and often almost incomprehensible papers,
called Chrestomathia 8 , two of the formidable title-pages
of which are given below. The fifth appendix in this
work, forming the larger and most important part of the
book, consists of an Essay on Nomenclature and Classifi-
cation*. Although written in his later and worse style,
this essay is well worth reading, and full of forcible
remarks. It may be regarded, I believe, as the first of
r In Petri Kami, Eegii Professoris Clariss. Dialectics Libros duos
Lutetise Anno LXXII, postremo sine Prselectionibus seditos, explica-
tionum Quaestiones : quse Psedagogiae Logicse de Docenda Discendaque
Dialectica. Auctore Frederico Beurhusio. Londoni, 1581, p. 120.
8 'Chrestomathia : being a Collection of Papers, explanatory of the Design
of an Institution proposed to be set on foot, under the name of the
Chrestomathic Day School, or Chrestomathic School, for the extension of
the New System of Instruction/ &c. By Jeremy Bentham, Esq., London,
1816.
* 'An Essay on Nomenclature and Classification: including a Critical
Examination of the Encyclopedical Table of Lord Bacon, as improved by
D'Alembert : and the first lines of a new one grounded on the application
of the Logical Principle of Exhaustively Bifurcate Analysis.' London,
1817.
VOL. II. C C
