CLASSIFICATION. 387
one scheme. He also points out the apparent loss of
labour in making any large bifurcate classification ; but
this he considers to be fully recompensed by the logical
value of the result, and the logical training acquired in its
execution. Jeremy Bentham, then, fully recognises, as I
conceive, the value of the Logical Abecedarium under
another name, though he apprehends the limit to its use
placed by the finiteness of our mental and manual powers.
Mr. George Bentham has also fully recognised the
value of bifurcate classification, both in his * Outline of a
New System of Logic ' u (pp. 105-118), and in his ' Essai
sur la Nomenclature et la Classification/ This latter
work consists of a free translation or improved version in
French of Jeremy Bentham's 'Essay on Classification/
Further illustrations of the value of the bifurcate method
are adduced from the natural sciences, and Mr. Bentham
points out that it is really this method which was employed
by Lamark and Decandolle in their so-called analytical
arrangement of the French Flora. The following table
contains an excellent example of bifurcate division, con-
sisting of the principal classes of Decandolle's system, as
given by Mr. Bentham in Table No. III. p. 108 of his
Essay, the names, however, being translated :
u Concerning the connexion of this work with the great discovery of
the quantification of the predicate, I may refer the reader to the remarks
and articles of Mr. Herbert Spencer and Professor Thomas Spencer
Baynes, in the 'Contemporary Review' of March, April, and July, 1873,
vol. xxi. pp. 490, 796 ; vol. xxii. p. 318 ; as also to my own article in
answer to Professor Baynes in the same Review for May, 1873, vol. xxi.
p. 821. Professor Baynes makes it evident that, when Sir W. Hamilton
reviewed Mr. Bentham's work in 1833, he did not sufficiently acquaint
himself with its contents. I must continue to hold that the principle of
quantification is explicitly stated by Mr. Bentham, and it must be re-
garded as a remarkable fact in the history of logic that Hamilton, while
vindicating, in 1847, his own claims to originality and priority against
the scheme of De Morgan, should have overlooked the much earlier
and more closely related discoveries of Bentham.
C C 2
