390 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
partly arises from the fact, that so high a philosophical
authority as Mr. Herbert Spencer has denied that gene-
ralization is implied in abstraction x , making this doctrine
the ground for rejecting previous methods of classifying
the sciences, and for forming an ingenious but peculiar
method of his own. The question is also a fundamental
one of the highest logical importance, and involves subtle
difficulties which have made me long hesitate in forming
a decisive opinion.
Let us attempt to answer the question by examination of
a few examples. Compare the two classes gun and iron
gun. It is certain that there are many guns which are
not made of iron, so that abstraction of the circumstance
' made of iron' increases the extent of the notion. Next
compare gun and metallic gun. All guns made at the
present day consist, I believe, of metal, so that the two
notions seem to be co-extensive ; but guns were at first made
of pieces of wood bound together like a tub, and as the
logical term gun takes no account of time, it must include
all guns that have ever existed. Here again extension
increases as intension decreases. Compare once more
' steam-locomotive engine' and ' locomotive engine.' In
the present day so far as I am aware all locomotives are
worked by steam, so that the omission of that qualifica-
tion might seem not to widen the term ; but it is quite
possible that in some future age a different motive power
may be used in locomotives ; and as there is no limitation
of time in the use of logical terms, we must certainly
assume that there is a class of locomotives not worked by
steam, as well as a class that is worked by steam.
When the natural class of Euphorbiacese was origin-
ally formed, all the plants known to belong to it were
devoid of corollas ; it would have seemed therefore that
the two classes ' Euphorbiacese/ and ' Euphorbiacese devoid
x ' The Classification of the Sciences,' <fcc., 3rd edit. p. 7.
