CLASSIFICATION. 391
of Corollas/ were of equal extent. Subsequently a number
of plants plainly belonging to the same class were found
in tropical countries, and they possessed bright coloured
corollas. Naturalists believe with the utmost confidence
that 'Ruminants' and 'Ruminants with cleft feet' are
identical terms, because no ruminant has yet been dis-
covered without cleft feet. But we can see no impossibility
in the conjunction of rumination with uncleft feet, and it
would be too great an assumption to say that we are
certain that an example of it will never be met with.
Instances can be quoted, without end, of objects being ulti-
mately discovered which combined properties or forms
which had never before been seen together. In the animal
kingdom the Black Swan, the Ornithorhyncus Paradoxus,
and more recently the singular fish called Ceratodus For-
steri, all discovered in Australia, have united characters
never previously known to co-exist. At the present time
deep-sea dredging is bringing to light many animals of a
new and unprecedented nature. Singular exceptional dis-
coveries may certainly occur in other branches of science.
When Davy first succeeded in eliminating metallic potas-
sium, it was a well established empirical law that all
metallic substances possessed a high specific gravity, the
least dense of all metals then known being zinc, of which
the specific gravity is 7*1. Yet, to the surprise of chemists,
potassium was found to be an undoubted metal of less
density than water, its specific gravity being 0*865.
It is hardly requisite to prove by further examples that
our knowledge of nature is incomplete, so that we cannot
safely assume the non-existence of new combinations.
Logically speaking, we ought to leave a place open for
animals which ruminate but are without cleft feet, and
for every other possible intermediate form of animal, plant,
or mineral. A purely logical classification must take
account not only of what certainly does exist, but of what
may in after ages be found to exist.
