392 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
I will go a step further, and say that we must have
places in our scientific classifications for purely imaginary
existences. A very large proportion of the mathematical
functions which are conceivable have no application to the
circumstances of this world. Physicists certainly do in-
vestigate the nature and consequences of forces which
nowhere exist. Newton's ' Principia ' is full of such inves-
tigations. In one chapter of his ' Mecanique Celeste '
Laplace indulges in a remarkable speculation as to what
the laws of motion would have been if momentum instead
of varying simply as the velocity had been a more com-
plicated function of it. I have already mentioned (vol. i.
p. 256) that Sir George Airy contemplated the existence
of a world in which the laws of force should be such that
a perpetual motion would be possible, and the Law of
Conservation of Energy would not hold true.
Thought is not bound down to the limits of what is mate-
rially existent, but is circumscribed only by those Funda-
mental Laws of Identity, Contradiction and Duality, which
were laid down at the outset. This is the point at which
I should differ from Mr. Herbert Spencer. He appears to
suppose that a classification is complete if it has a place
for every existing object, and this may perhaps seem to
be practically sufficient ; but it is subject to two profound
objections. Firstly, we do not know all that exists, and
therefore in limiting our classes we are erroneously omitting
multitudes of objects of unknown form and nature which
may exist either on this earth or in other parts of space.
Secondly, as I have explained, the powers of thought are
not limited by material existences, and we may or, for some
purposes, must imagine objects which probably do not
exist, and if we imagine them we ought (strictly speak-
ing) to find appropriate places for them in the classifi-
cations of science.
The chief difficulty of this subject, however, consists in
