402 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
ways, according to subject, language, date or place of
publication, size, the initial words of the book itself,
of the title-page, the colophon, the author's name, the
publisher's name, the printer's name, the character of the
type, and so on. Every one of these modes of arrange-
ment may be useful, for. we may happen to remember one
circumstance about a book when we have forgotten all
others ; but as we cannot usually go to the expense of
forming more than two or three indices at the most, we
must of course select those circumstances for the basis
of arrangement which will be likely to lead to the dis-
covery of a book most surely. Many of the criteria
mentioned are evidently inapplicable. The language in
which a book is written is no doubt definite enough, but
would afford no criterion for the classification of any large
group of English books, or of those written in any one
language. Classification by subjects would be an exceed-
ingly useful method if it were practicable, but experience,
or indeed a little reflection, shows it to be a logical
absurdity. It is a very difficult matter to classify the
sciences, so close and complicated are in many cases the
relations between them. But with books the complica-
tion is infinitely greater, since the same book may treat
successively of different sciences, or it may discuss a
problem involving many entirely diverse principles and
branches of knowledge. A good history of the steam
engine will be antiquarian, so far as it traces out records
of the earliest efforts at discovery ; purely scientific, as
regards the principles of thermodynamics involved ;
technical, as regards the mechanical means of applying
those principles ; economical, as regards the industrial
results of the invention ; biographical, as regards the
lives of the inventors. A history of Westminster Abbey
might belong either to the history of architecture, the
history of the church, or the history of England. If we
