CLASSIFICATION. 403
abandon the attempt to carry out an arrangement accord-
ing to the natural classification of the sciences, and form
comprehensive practical groups, we shall be continually
perplexed by the occurrence of intermediate cases, and
opinions will differ ad infinitum as to the details. If,
to avoid the difficulty about Westminster Abbey, we form
a class of books devoted to the History of Buildings, the
question will then arise whether Stonehenge is a building,
and if so, whether, cromlechs, mounds, or even monoliths
are so. At the other end of the scale we shall be uncer-
tain whether to include under the class History of Build-
ings, lighthouses, monuments, bridges, &c. In regard to
purely literary works, rigorous classification is still less
possible. The very same work may partake of the nature
of poetry, biography, history, philosophy, or if we form a
comprehensive class of Belles-Lettres, nobody can say
exactly what does or does not come under the term.
My own experience entirely bears out the opinion of
the late Professor De Morgan, that classification according
to the name of the author is the only one practicable in a
large library, and this method has been admirably carried
out in the great Catalogue of the British Museum. The
name of the author is the most precise circumstance con-
cerning a book, which usually dwells in the memory. It
is more nearly a characteristic of the book than anything
else. In an alphabetical arrangement we have an exhaus-
tive classification, including a place for every possible
name. The following remarks^ of De Morgan seem there-
fore to be entirely correct. * From much, almost daily use,
of catalogues for many years, I am perfectly satisfied that
a classed catalogue is more difficult to use than to make.
It is one man's theory of the. subdivision of knowledge,
and the chances are against its suiting any other man.
Even if all doubtful works were entered under several
d * Philosophical Magazine/ 3rd Series (1845), vol. xxvi. p. 522.
D d 2
