CLASSIFICATION. 407
same kind of natural classification which is best in biology
will apply also in mineralogy, in chemistry, or in astronomy.
The universal logical principles which underlie all classifi-
cations are of course the same in natural history as in the
sciences of brute matter, but the special logical resem-
blances which arise from the relation of parent and
offspring will not be found to prevail between different
kinds of crystals or mineral bodies.
The genealogical view of the mutual relations of ani-
mals and plants leads us to discard all notions of any
regular progression of living forms, or any theory as to
their symmetrical relations. It was at one time a great
question whether the ultimate scheme of natural classifi-
cation would prove to be in a simple line, or a circle, or a
combination of circles. Macleay's once celebrated system
was a circular one, and each class-circle was composed of
five order-circles, each of which was composed again of
five tribe- circles, and so on, the subdivision being at each
step into five minor circles. Thus he held that in the
animal kingdom there were five sub-kingdoms the Ver-
tebrata, Annulosa, Radiata, Acrita, and Mollusca. Each
of these was again divided into five the Vertebrata con-
sisting of Mammalia, Eeptilia, Pisces, Amphibia, and
Aves. It is quite evident that in any such symmetrical
system the animals were made to suit themselves to the
classes instead of the classes being suited to the animals.
We now perceive that the ultimate system will be an
almost infinitely extended genealogical tree, which wih 1
be capable of representation by lines on a plane surface
of sufficient extent. But there is not the least reason to
suppose that this tree will have a symmetrical form.
Some branches of it would be immensely developed com-
pared with others. In some cases a form may have pro-
S Swainson, ' Treatise on the Geography and Classification of Animals,
'Cabinet Cyclopaedia/ p. 201.
