408 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
pagated itself almost from primeval times with little vari-
ation.
In other cases frequent differentiations will have oc-
curred. Strictly speaking, this genealogical tree ought to
represent the descent of each individual living form now
existing or which has existed. It should be as personal
and minute in its detail of relations, as the Stemma of the
Kings of England. We must not assume that any two
forms are absolutely and exactly alike, and in any case
they are numerically distinct. Every parent then must
be represented at the apex of a series of divergent lines,
representing the generation of so many children. Any
complete and perfect system of classification must regard
individuals as the infimse species. But as in the lower
races of animals and plants the differences between indi-
viduals are usually very slight, and apparently unimportant,
while the numbers of such individuals are immensely great,
beyond all possibility of separate treatment, scientific men
have always stopped at some convenient but arbitrary
point, and have assumed that forms so closely resembling
each other as to present no constant difference were all of
one kind. They have, in short, fixed their attention
entirely upon the main features of family difference. In
the genealogical tree which they have been unconsciously
aiming to construct, diverging lines meant races diverging
in character, and the purpose of all efforts at so-called
natural classification was to trace out the relationships
between existing plants or animals. Now it is evident
that hereditary descent may have in different cases pro-
duced very different results as regards the problem of
classification. In some cases the differentiation of charac-
ters may have been very frequent, and specimens of all
the characters produced may have been transmitted to the
present time. A living form will then have, as it were,
an almost infinite number of cousins of various degrees,
