422 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
observed that classification is the opposite process to dis-
crimination. If we feel that two tastes differ, for instance,
the tastes of two specimens of wine, the mere fact of
difference existing prevents inference. The detection of
the difference saves us, indeed, from false inference, be-
cause so far as difference exists, all inference is impossible.
But classification consists in detecting resemblances of all
degrees of generality, and ascertaining exactly how far
such resemblances extend, while assigning precisely at the
same time the points at which difference begins. It
enables us, then, at once to generalize and make inferences
where it is possible, and it saves us at the same time from
going too far. Full classifications constitute a complete
record of all our knowledge of the objects or events
classified, and the limits of exact or scientific knowledge
are identical with the limits of classification.
It must by no means be supposed that every group
of natural objects will be found capable of rigorous
classification. There may be substances which vary by
insensible degrees, consisting, for instance, in varying
mixtures of simpler substances. Granite is a mixture
of quartz, felspar, and mica, but there are hardly
two specimens in which the proportions of these three
constituents are alike, and it would be impossible to lay
down definitions of distinct species of granite without
finding an infinite variety of intermediate species. The
only true classification of granites, then, would be founded
on the proportions of the constituents present, and a
chemical or microscopic analysis would be requisite, in
order that we should assign any specimen to its true
position in the series. Granites vary, again, by insensible
degrees, as regards the magnitude of the crystals of fel-
spar and mica. Precisely similar remarks might be made
concerning the classification of other plutonic rocks, such
as syenite, basalt, pumice-stone, lava, tuff, &c.
