RESULTS AND LIMITS OF SCIENTIFIC METHOD. 437
fibres, but something requires to be added to our sciences
in order that we even explain these subtle phenomena. .
(Now there is absolutely nothing in science or in scien-
tific method to warrant us in assigning any limit to this
hierarchy of laws. J When in many undoubted cases we
find law overriding law, and at certain points in our
experience producing unexpected results, we can never
venture to affirm that we have exhausted the strange
phenomena which may have been provided for in the
original constitution of matter. /The Universe might
have been so designed that it should for long intervals
go through the same round of almost unvaried existence,
and yet so that events of exceptional character should
from time to time be produced. ; Charles Babbage showed
in that most profound and eloquent work, ' The Ninth
Bridgwater Treatise/ that it was theoretically possible
for human artists to design a machine, consisting of
metallic wheels and levers, which should work invari-
ably by one simple law of action during any finite
number of steps, and yet at a fixed moment, however
distant, should manifest a single breach of law. Such
an engine might go on counting, for instance, the natural
numbers until they might reach a number requiring for
its expression a hundred million digits. * If every letter
in the volume now before the reader's eyes/ says Babbage 6 ,
' were changed into a figure, and if all the figures con-
tained in a thousand such volumes were arranged in order,
the whole together would yet fall far short of the vast
induction the observer would have had in favour of the
truth of the law of natural numbers . . . Yet shall the
engine, true to the prediction of its director, after the
lapse of myriads of ages, fulfil its task, and give that one,
the first and only exception to that time-sanctioned law.
What would have been the chances against the appear-
e 'Ninth Bridgwater Treatise/ p, 140.
