RESULTS AND LIMITS OF SCIENTIFIC METHOD. 441
data show that no appreciable change can be going on,
and experimental data to indicate any change are wholly
wanting. Geological investigations show indeed that there
have been extensive variations of climate in past times ;
vast glaciers and icebergs have swept over the temperate
regions at one time, and tropical vegetation has flourished
near the poles at another time. But here again the vicis-
situdes of climate assume a periodic character, so that
the ultimate stability of the earth's condition does not
seem to be affected.
All these statements may be reasonable, but they do
not in the least establish the Uniformity of Nature in the
sense that extensive alterations or sudden catastrophes
are impossible. In the first place Laplace's theory of the
stability of the planetary system is of an abstract character,
as paying regard to nothing but the mutual gravitation
of the planetary bodies and the sun. It overlooks several
physical causes of change and decay in the system which
were not so well known in his day as at present, and it also
presupposes the absence of any interruption of the course
of things by conflict with foreign astronomical bodies.
It is now commonly acknowledged by astronomers that
there are at least two ways in which the vis viva of the
planets and satellites may suffer loss. The friction of the
tides upon the earth produces a small amount of heat
which is radiated into space, and this loss of energy must
result in a decrease of the rotational velocity, so that
ultimately the terrestrial day will become identical with
the year, just as the periods of revolution of the moon
upon its own axis and around the earth have already
become equal. Secondly, there can now be little doubt
that various manifestations of electricity upon the earth's
surface depend upon the relative motions of the planets
and the sun, which give rise to various periods of in-
creased intensity. Such electrical phenomena must result
