442 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
in the production and dissipation of heat, the energy of
which must be drawn, partially at least, from that of the
moving bodies. This effect is probably identical, as I
have suggested (vol. ii. p. 213), with the very evident loss
of energy of comets attributed to a so-called resisting
medium. But whatever be the theoretical explanation of
these phenomena, it is almost certain that there exists a
tendency to the dissipation of the energy of the planetary
system, which will in the indefinite course of time result
in the fall of the planets into the sun.
It is hardly probable, however, that the planetary
system wiU be left undisturbed throughout the enormous
period of time required for the dissipation of its energy
in this way. Conflict with other bodies is so far from
being improbable, that it becomes approximately certain
when we take very long intervals of time into account.
As regards cometary conflicts, I am by no means satisfied
with the negative conclusions drawn from the remarkable
display on the evening of the 2/th of November, 1872.
We may often have passed through the tails of comets,
which are probably electrical manifestations no more
substantial than the aurora borealis. Every remarkable
shower of shooting stars may also be considered as pro-
ceeding from a cometary body, so that we may be said to
have passed through the thinner parts of various comets.
But the earth has probably never passed, in times of which
we have any record, through the nucleus of a comet, which
consists perhaps of a dense swarm of small meteorites. We
can only speculate upon the effects which might be pro-
duced by such a conflict, but it would probably be a much
more serious event than any yet registered in history.
The probability of its occurrence, too, can hardly be
assigned ; for though the probability of conflict with any
one cometary nucleus is almost infinitesimal, yet the
number of comets is immensely great (vol. ii. p. 1 1).
