4G2 THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENCE.
By a different distribution of atoms in the primaeval
world a different series of living forms on this earth must
have been produced. IFrom the same causes acting accord-
ing to the same laws, the same results will follow ; but
from different causes acting according to the same laws,
different results will follow/ 1 So far as we can see, then,
infinitely diverse living creatures might have been cre-
ated consistently with the theory of evolution, and the
precise reason why we have a back-bone, two hands with
opposable thumbs, an erect stature, a complex brain, about
223 bones, and many other peculiarities, is only to be
found in the original act of creation. ] I do not, any less
than Paley, believe that the eye of man manifests design.
I believe that the eye was gradually developed, and we
can in fact trace its gradual development from the first
germ of a nerve affected by light rays in some simple
zoophyte. In proportion as the eye became a more
delicate and accurate instrument of vision, it enabled its
possessor to escape destruction, but the ultimate result
must have been contained in the aggregate of the causes,
and these causes, so far as we can see, were subject to
the arbitrary choice of the Creator.
Although Professor Agassiz is clearly wrong in holding
that every species of animals or plants has appeared on
earth by the immediate intervention of the Creator, which
would amount to saying that no laws of connexion be-
tween forms are discoverable, yet he seems to be right in
asserting that \Jiving forms are entirely distinct from those
produced from purely physical causes.) ' The products of
what are commonly called physical agents,' he says u , 'are
everywhere the same (i. e. upon the whole surface of the
earth) and have always been the same (i. e. during all geo-
logical periods) ; while organized beings are everywhere dif-
ferent and have differed in all ages. Between two such series
u Agassiz, 'Essay on Classification/ p. 75.
