RESULTS AND LIMITS OF SCIENTIFIC METHOD. 465
even in the absence of all disturbance, our inferences are
merely the best which can be made, and do not approach
to infallibility. If, however, interference be possible, even
the theory of probability ceases to be applicable, for, the
amount and nature of that interference being arbitrary
and unknown, there ceases to be any connexion between
premises and conclusion. Many years" of reflection have
not enabled me to see any way of avoiding this hiatus of
scientific certainty. The conclusions of scientific inference
appear to be always of an hypothetical and purely pro-
visional nature. I Given certain experience the theory of
probability yields us the true interpretation of that ex-
perience and is the surest guide open to us. But the best
calculated results which it can give are never absolute
probabilities ; they are purely relative to the extent of
our information. It seems to be impossible for us to judge
how far our experience gives us adequate information of
the universe as a whole, and of all the forces and pheno-
mena which can have place therein.
I feel that I cannot in the space remaining at my com-
mand in the present volume, sufficiently follow out the
lines of thought suggested, or define with precision my
own conclusions. This chapter contains merely Reflections
upon subjects of so weighty a character that I should
myself wish for many years nay for more than a lifetime
of further reflection. My purpose, as I have repeatedly
said, is the purely negative one of showing that atheism
and materialism are no necessary results of Scientific
Method. From the preceding reviews of the value of our
scientific knowledge, I draw one distinct conclusion, that
we cannot disprove the possibility of Divine interference
in the course of nature. Such interference might arise, so
far as our knowledge extends, in two ways. It might
consist in the disclosure of the existence of some agent or
spring of energy previously unknown, but which effects a
VOL. n. H h
