S CIENTIFIC LIT ERA TUBE.
133
sound basis for education, but more partic-
ularly those instructors to whom we look
for guidance from kindergarten to college.
Mr. Frank Sargent Hoffmann's book on
The Sphere of the State * is the substance,
chiefly, of lectures delivered before the senior
class of Union College in 1898, and is in-
tended to set forth clearly and concisely the
ethical principles involved in the rights and
action of the state, and to show how they
may be applied under present conditions
and principles. Tn the author's view the
state is the primal and universal unit of so-
ciety ; it is coextensive with the human
race, and is independent of the existence of
nations, and every man is born into it. It
is manifold, for many distinct divisions of
mankind called states may exist at any
given period. The supreme control of all
persons and commodities must be with it,
and there can never be an individual right
to anything in the state that is not subordi-
nate to its right. Dismissing such concep-
tions as base the organization and extent of
the state on geography, race, family rela-
tion, language, or religion, the author ac-
cepts that which founds it on brotherhood
and the needs thereof, and makes the chief
and ultimate end of the state, to which all
other ends must be subordinate, the perfec-
tion of the brotherhood ; and all this, the
state, the entity, is distinguished from the
government, which is only an instrument.
The state's first duty is to enlighten its
members respecting their ever-vai-ying rela-
tions, and what they require education.
AVhile the true and distinctive ground of
proj>erty is labour, by which it is acquired,
and that is performed by individuals, the
natural right to property is ultimately re-
solved into a state right, and the individual's
right must in the end be controlled by the
needs of the state or the good of the whole
brotherhood ; and " only from the concep-
tion of property as ultimately owned and
controlled by the state can we come to a
true conception of the property right of
each citizen of the state." The principles
thus laid down are followed out in their ap-
* The Sphere of the State, or the People as a
Body Politic ; with Special Consideration of Cer-
tain Present Problems. By Frank Sargent Hoff-
mann. New York and London : G. P. Putnam's
Sons, pp. 275.
plication to the various functions and fea-
tures of civic and social life ; to the crea-
tion of corporations and the assigning them
their places in the state ; to the matter of
transportation and its relation to the state ;
to taxation, the right to impose which be-
longs only to the state as a whole and is
absolute there, but not to any individual i
to questions of money ; to the treatment of
criminals; to relations with the poor; to
the government of cities, the family, the
Church, and relations with other states.
The author's reasoning is profound and com-
prehensive, his tone is conservative, and the
book is full of thought.
Of all the leaders in the late war for the
preservation of the Union, General Sheridan *
probably comes nearest among the Unionist
commanders to fulfilling the popular ideal of
a hero. Brave, alert, often brilliant, and
nearly always successful, he acquired his full
measure of glory while in active service,
while nothing happened in his after-life to
dim his renown. His biographer was for-
tunate in his subject. We may say that the
subject is as fortunate in its biographer.
General Davies sei'ved with distinction in the
cavalry corps of the Army of the Potomac
under General Sheridan from September,
1863, till the end of the war, and his brigade
was present in all Sheridan's battles. It was
mainly for this reason that he was chosen by
the editor of this series to be Sheridan's bi-
ographer. He was an officer of correct mili-
tary information and was, as his narrative
proves, a writer with clear perception of what
should go into a biography, and was able to
estimate correctly the value of each action
and to describe his hero justly and without
exaggeration or extravagance. He died one
month after he had completed this book.
He regards General Sheridan as having pos-
sessed to an eminent degree the most indi-'-
pensable qualities of a commander. " He
had the ability to think and act promptly
and energetically, and, if need were, independ-
ently of instructions, and to assume and sup-
port with ease whatever responsibilities his
situation might require ; he had the power
to impress his will and personal influence
* Great Commanders : General Sheridan. By
General Henry .y. Davies. With Portrf.it and
Maps. New York : D. Appleton & Co. Pp. 332.
Price, $1.51
