13^
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
upon all who were under his command." He
was not a martinet or a rigid disciplinarian,
but exacted implicit obedience from his sub-
ordinates and a prompt and energetic per-
formance of duty. He also recognized the
reciprocal relations that should exist between
a commander and his troops. Great stress
has been laid by some writers upon his
" dash," but no estimate of his character
coald be more erroneous than that which
made him only a hard-riding, hard-fighting,
and reckless soldier, whose fame and success
were due to desperate personal courage and
impulsive combativeness, with exceptional
good fortune. He had energy and dash, and,
added to these, judgment, patience, industry,
and full knowledge of all the duties of a
commander and a soldier, and deserved all
the distinction he won.
The Annual Report of the New York
State Board of Charities for 1894, a bulky
volume of 5*76 pages, is a valuable compila-
tion of statistics relating to the charitable
institutions and other charities of the State.
The total expenditure of the State charities
department for the year ending September
30, 1894, was $3,8'77,'709.80 ; of county and
city institutions, $3,872,985.50 ; and of pri-
vate and incorporated societies and associa-
tions, $13,231,698.52. This was a total in-
crease over 1893 of $574,410.88.
The Teacher^s Mentor (Bardeen, 50 cents)
is written to aid the inexperience and guide
the uncertainty regarding practical details of
the beginner who is without special training.
It is, the author says, based on what he now
sees would have been useful to him in his
early years of teaching. Among the topics
considered are, the outfit for teaching, in-
cluding knowledge of subjects to be taught
and general information desirable ; necessity
for understanding the children ; what educa-
tion is ; relations between teacher and trus-
tee; desirability of producing a good first
impression on the children ; and school rou-
tine in detail.
The studies on which Le Petrolc, VAs-
phalte, et le Bitume?i {FetroXenm, Asphalt, and
Bitumen), of the late Prof. A. Jaggard^ of
Neufch^tel, is based, were begun in the Jura
and the asphalt bed of the Val-de Travers,
and were stimulated by the discovery of min-
eral oil in the United States. Their purpose
was to investigate the origin of the natural
hydrocarbons. The various theories of pe-
troleum are criticised, the mode of its forma-
tion is discussed, the discoveries of beds of
it in the Old and New Worlds are described ;
and Ijitumen and asphalt are similarly treated.
The author concludes that no extraordinary
processes or forces are needed to account for
the production of these substances, but that
it is still going on in the usual course of
events, by a kind of natural, slow distillation
of organic matter. But in studying the beds
it is necessary to discriminate between the
original formation of the substances and the
displacements which they may have under-
gone afterward, and which may have had
much to do in bringing them into their pres-
ent position. The book is published by Felix
Alcan, Paris, as a number of the French In-
ternational Scientific Series.
In a similar line, though the starting-
point is different, is Les Merveillcs de la Flore
Primitive (Wonders of the Primitive Flora)
of M. A. Froment, which is published by
Georg & Co., at Geneva and at Paris. It be-
gins with a minute study of the carboniferous
vegetation, its structure and forms, and pro-
ceeds to the discussion of the way in which
the coal-forming plants may have been accu-
mulated and converted into coal. This is
done by gradual, unheated distillation, which,
under certain other conditions, produces the
hydrocarbons. A preponderant function is
ascribed to electricity in the production of
the coal plants. This well-reasoned essay is
followed by a remarkable speculation over
what may have happened if Australia fell
upon the earth as a meteoric mass.
In obedience to an act of Congress, the
Commissioner of Labor has made an investi-
gation and a report on The Slums of Balti-
more^ Chicago, New York, and Philadelphia.
The report embraces thirty-three tables, in
which are given under various classifications
the color or race, country of birth, citizen-
ship, illiteracy, occupations, weekly earnings,
number of children, bodily condition, etc.,
of the inhabitants of the districts examined,
also the school attendance of their children,
the number of families to a tenement, air
space to a person, rent paid, and sanitary
condition of the tenements. From an analy-
sis of the tables it appears that the slums, as
compared with other parts of the cities in
which they are, have a larger proportion of
