136
TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTnLY,
TTnited States Coast and Geodetic Survey.
Chart Corrections for August, 18U5. Pp. 12.
United States Fish Commission. Bulletin. Vol.
XTV, 1894. Washington : Government Printing
OiBce. Pp.496.
United States Geological Survey. Monographs.
Vols. XXIII and XXIV. Green Mountains in
Massachusetts. By Raphael Pnmpelly, J. E.
WolfE, and T. N. Dale. Pp. 206. with Plates.
Mollupca and Crustacea of the Miocene Forma-
tions of New Jersev. Bv Robert Parr Whitefleld.
Pp. 19.5, with f lates. Biilletine: No. 118. A Geo-
graphic Dictionary of New Jersey. By Henry
Gannett. Pp. l.?l ; No. 119. A Geological Re-
connoissance In Northwest Wyoming. By G. H.
Eldridge. Pp. 72 : No. 121). The Devonian Sys-
tem of Eastern Pennsylvania and New Yorli. By
C. S. Proeser. Pp. 81 ; No. 121. A Bibliography
of North American Pafcontology, 1888-1892. By
C. R. Keyes. Pp. 2.51 : No. 122. Results of
Primary Triangulatlon. By Henry Gannett. Pp.
412.
University of the State of New York Exami-
nation Bulletin. No. 3. Academic Syllabus. Pp.
100. Extension Bulletin, No. 9. Summer Scho Is.
Pp. 142. Regents' Bulletin. No. 31. Proceedings
of the Tenth Annual Conference of Associated
Academic Principals, December, 1894. Pp. 132.
Ward, Lester F. The Place of Sociolofry
among the Sciences. Pp. 12. Saporta and Wil-
liamson and their Work in Palieobotany. Pp. 18.
Fossil Plants. Pp. 8.
Weir, James. Jr. The Effect of Female Suf-
frage on Posterity. Pp. 10.
Wiley, Harvey W. Principles and Practice
of Agricultural Analysis. Vol. II, Fertilizers.
Easton, Pa. : Chemical Publishing Company.
Pp. 332.
%xxi^\\xt\\\s 0f ^citttct.
Natnre's Defenses against Disease. It
is maintained by Dr. C. Theodore Williams,
of the Hospital for Consumptives, Brompton,
England, that in most of the specific modes
of treating consumption, particularly in the
antiseptic modes, the greatest factor of all
the resisting power of the organism to dis-
ease is ignored, and that it is to this that
the physician should lend his aid and sup-
port. For if his means are effectual he can
ward off disease, or if a patient has been
already attacked he can limit its inroads and
possibly arrest it altogether. The history of
the treatment of phthisis shows that life in
the pure air, judicious exercise, light, nour-
ishing dietary, and such aids as cod-liver oil
and tonics have effected more than all the
bacillicide treatment put together. These all
act on the old principle of helping Nature to
help herself and reducing the vulnerability
of the patient to attack. The weapons of
resistance which Nature lends the human
body are the leucocytes or phagocytes, stud-
ied by Metchnikoff, which absorb the bacilli
and destroy their energy. Another destroyer
of bacilli is the serum of certain animals ;
and a third method of destruction is seen in
the process of fibrosis, which is largely pres-
ent in chronic consumption. In a well-or-
ganized, well-developed, and therefore well-
protected person the bacilli are overwhelmed
by the irruption of phagocytes at the point
of entry, and immunity is the result. In one
of less protective power they may enter and
be carried along by the lymphatics to the
lymphatic glands, where they undergo diges-
tion and destruction. When, however, the
tubercle bacilli gain an entrance, and settle,
and destroy the tissues, as in the case of the
lung, the most that can be hoped for is that
the progress may be obstructed by fibrous
growth, or that, through developing and ex-
panding the healthy lung in the neighbor-
hood, pressure may be brought to bear on the
diseased portion, inducing a drying process
incompatible with the life of bacilli. This
process is encouraged by living at high alti-
tudes. The problem of treatment resolves
itself principally into means to increase the
number and activity of the phagocytes and
thus render more probable the destruction
of the tubercle bacilli. Moreover, whatever
improves the quality of the phagocytes would
also improve and enrich the blood and lymph
serum, of which they form a principal part.
To this quality the author attributes the
virtue of cod- liver oil to which he has
found, he says, no substitute comparable.
Sunshine and pure air are the best bacilli-
cides. At Davos and St. Moritz phthisical
patients ahnoat invariably sleep with open
windows throughout the winter, when the
thermometer not uncommonly registers 4
F., or 36 below the freezing point, care, of
course, being taken to heat the room with
stoves, to provide plenty of blankets and
coverlets, and to see that the current of ex-
ternal air is not directed on to the patient,
