FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
'39
equally true, and tbat as a general law large
seeds produce stronger plants with a greater
capacity for reproduction than small seeds
of the same kind. In the economy of Na"
ture, as the food supply is lessened, a greater
effort is made on behalf of the parent plants
to enhance the chances for perpetuity, but
at the same time the largest seeds, having
the greatest potentiality, stand the best
chance in the future struggle, and, although
the best, nourished plants produce the fewest
seeds, their greater size gives them decided
advantages over seeds from starved plants.
The two laws acting together, therefore, aid
in maintaining the perpetuity of the species
and its full measure of vigor. The two cate-
gories of methods for the improvement of
crops are the enrichment and cultivation of
the soil and the selection of seed, especially
of large seed. It is desirable to know that
intensive farming will give a better return in
all crops grown for fodder, or for the roots,
or other portions of the vegetative part of
plants, than in those grown for grain and
fruit. In either case, but more especially in
the latter, the highest vigor and best returns
can be obtained only by the use of the best
and heaviest seed. When this is done high
tillage will increase the yield and make pos-
sible the greater improvement of succeeding
crops.
Happiness of Animals. " What makes
the happiness of wild animals ? " asks a
writer in the London Spectator. What the
happiness of wild creatures consists in, he
continues, " can perhaps' be best judged by
their daily habits. Within certain limits
they are free to choose their life, and pre-
sumably they choose what pleases them best'
In nearly every case this is one of pure routine.
It consists in a daily repetition of a limited
series of actions, the greater number of
which seem to give them satisfaction rather
than pleasure, but make up in the aggregate
the sum of animal happiness. Unlike the
domestic dog, which welcomes any break in
the monotony of life, they never, except in
the courting season, seem to seek change, or
adventure, or excitement. It may be doubted
whether, if the food supply were plentiful and
constant, animals or birds would ever care to
move beyond the circle in which they can
find enough for their daily wants. The prob-
able whereabouts of deer at any time in
the twenty-four hours, and their occupation)
whether feeding, sleeping, or resting, are
known with the utmost certainty by those
whose business it is to watch the forest, and
could be predicted for any month in the year.
. . . The adventurous life, if it is found any-
where among wild creatures, belongs to the
carnivorous animals. Yet most of these only
wander just so far as is necessary to find their
prey, and then prefer to kill some creature that
will provide a meal for more than one day.
They are naturally indolent, and active only
from necessity." Even lack of space is not
a serious drawback to the happiness of most
animals at the London "Zoo." "The lions
and tigers feel the confinement of their inner
cages and often strike impatiently at the
doors which separate them in winter from
their summer palaces, and the wild cattle
would enjoy life far more if a roomy pad-
dock could be added to their pens. No
hawks or eagles can be happy in cages, be-
cause exercise in flight is essential to their
health. Parrots, on the other hand, dislike
exercise, and consequently live to the great
est age of any creatures in the gardens
Bears seem to share this dislike for unneces
sary movements, and 'my lords the ele
phants,' and all the camels, with true Ori
ental indifference, would prefer to stand at
day doing nothing, if they were not com
pelled to earn their living by carrying visitors,
All the reptiles lead the life of lotus-eaters,
and, so far as their brief day lasts, the trop-
ical butterflies in their cages seem equally
happy with those which flit among the flow-
ers that line the garden walks."
Pictnrcsqae Arctic Natnre. How small,
says Julius von Payer, is the matter for ar-
tistic reproduction in the old civilized world
compared with the rest of the globe ! " Has
the desert been depicted in such a manner
as it undoubtedly deserves to be ? Or the
Tundra, the primeval forest of the Dark Con-
tinent, the swampy shores of Lake Chad, the
bridle-path of the Cordilleras, the Tibetan
mountain lake, or the coral islands ? What
of the animal world, if we except our do-
mestic animals and some wild game: the
Indian beasts of prey ; the African pachy-
derms ; the troops of monkeys or tortoises
of Brazil ? And then the scenes of human
