14-0
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
activity : the negro battles ; the dreamy, still
life of the South Sea islanders ; the buEfalo
hunters ; Yakuts so hardened as to sleep al-
most naked in the snow ; India-rubber col-
lectors on the Amazons ; Patagonian giants ;
Niam Niam dwarfs, etc." The author espe-
cially commends the polar regions as artis-
tically attractive, where great effects are pro-
duced with little color by the varying charms
of light conferring life upon even the most mo-
notonous views. In the four years and a half
he spent there he was ever charmed by the
change in pictures of Nature. " What a magic
spell, for instance, is produced even by the
twilight, . . . the time without bright light,
almost without shade ; that of soft, dreamy
silhouettes, of the clear green sky, and the
pale, silvery tone of the mountains ! The
snow is now melted, and the blue sea-ice lies
bare, scarcely tinged with red by the setting
sun. Even the long winter night possesses
its artistic charm from the midday arch
of light, or the moon, which changes the
channels beneath into rivers of silver. The
arctic sky alone would enrapture the painter.
As the returning sun nears the horizon, every
color glows forth, a border of light dividing
the part of the atmosphere still in the shadow
of the earth from that already lighted up."
Then there are the infinitely varied phe-
nomena of refraction, with Fata Morgana,
giving the most curiously odd and unlike
appearances to various objects ; vapor ef-
fects ; the ice blink ; variations of snow
and bare ground ; pastures with reindeer
and musk oxen ; and vegetation, for, " al-
though there is never the thick flora of
our meadows, yet one meets with limited
areas either yellow with Papava nudicaule
or Ranunculus, or carmine with Silene or
Saxifraga, or blue with forget-me-not, or
white with Crasfmm. East Greenland has
its huge Kaiser Franz Josef fiord, surpassing
the fiord of Norway, and the whole of Green-
land furnishes surpassing mountain land-
scapes ; Spitzbergen has a profile like a saw ;
and Novaya Zemlya is a table land, but-
tressed by mountain cones."
Forest Protection in the Tnited States.
In a paper published in the Proceedings
of the American Forestry Association, Mr.
George II. Parsons, of Colorado Springs,
shows that measures for the protection of
forests were taken by some of the colonies
as early as in the seventeenth century.
These provisions were continued everywhere
after the formal organization of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and now each
State and Territory has some law, providing
more or less severe punishment to any per-
son setting fire to woodland or prairie. But
as it is very difficult to find the offender, or
to convict him afterward, laws of this class
are operative, if at all, by their threat rather
than by their execution, and with few excep-
tions have become dead letters. The only
States said to be comparatively free from
forest fires are Maine and Massachusetts, and
especially New York, whose forest commis-
sioner reports that they are now a thing of
the past. Laws encouraging the planting
and growing of timber and shade trees are
found on the statutes of twenty-two States
and Territories, having been adopted more
generally in the prairie States. They have
been the means of covering with trees thou-
sands of acres, and have driven the prairies
many miles westward. Kansas is credited
with the largest area planted with forest
trees, and Nebraska comes next. These
laws have done much good, but, after all,
tree-planting along roadsides, and in small,
isolated clumps, is not forestry, and legisla-
tion of this kind, though indirectly aiding
the cause in an educational way, does not
preserve or create forests. In the same
direction of education is the appointment of
Arbor Day, which has become a legal holi-
day in thirty States and Territories. Being
celebrated in the public schools, it is made a
most important factor in creating an interest
in trees and a knowledge of plant life among
people at their most impressionable age.
Regular forest commissioners or commissions
have been appointed in ten States. They
began work actively and enthusiastically,
but it is now a question whether they are
able to do much good. Politics is gnawing
their vitals out.
A Volcanic Dnst Deposit In Kansas. A
large deposit of volcanic dust is described in
Science by II. J. Harney as existing in cen-
tral Kansas, in McPherson County, north of
the watershed between the Smoky Hill and
Little Arkansas, and in the great depression
extending from Salina to the Little Arkansas.
