FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
141
The exposure is about fifteen miles long,
from two to four feet thick, from forty to
fifty feet high, rests on a bed of clay, and is
overlaid by a bed of yellow marl. At the
lowest point the dust is well assorted and
stratified ; at the higher points it shows signs
of having been deposited in shallow water.
It is composed chiefly of silica, with small
proportions of ferric and aluminum oxides,
protoxide of manganese, water, lime, and
traces of other substances. The microscope
shows it as consisting almost wholly of micro-
scopic, transparent, silicious flakes of various
irregular forms.
Geological Society of America. The
seventh summer meeting of the Geological
Society of America was held at Springfield,
Mass., Prof. N. S. Shaler presiding. A paper
was read by C. H. Hitchcock on the Cham-
plain Glacial Epoch, which was regarded as
corresponding with Prof. James Geikie's
Mecklenbergian Epoch. In a paper on the
Glacial Genesee Lakes, H. L. Fairchild ex-
hibited the relations of the Genesee River
drainage basin to surrounding river systems,
and endeavoured to determine the glacial
history of the region. In his paper on the
Bearing of Physiography on Uniformitarian-
ism, W. M. Davis maintained that the suc-
cess in the interpretation of Nature by means
of the physiographic study of land forms
confirmed the correctness of the postulates
of uniformitarianism and brought to its sup-
port a series of facts not in the beginning
of the study supposed to bear upon it. J. C.
Branner described the decomposition of rocks
going on in Brazil as being more profound
there than in temperate regions. The chief
mechanical agency promoting it is the daily
change of temperature to which rocks exposed
to the sun are subject, which causes exfolia-
tion and the admission of a number of de-
structive agencies and reactions. Among
these agencies are rain, bringing down cor-
rodmg acids, insects, and plants. Many
papers of more special interest were read on
subjects of stratigraphical, glacial, and eco-
nomical geology, and paleontology. A com-
mittee which had been appointed in 1898 to
secure the expropriation of the region about
Mount Rainier as a public park reported
that it had presented the case to a committee
of the United States Senate, but had failed
to have a bill recommended. The committee
was continued, to make another effort.
Tlie French Scientific Association. The
French Association for the Advancement of
Science met for 1895 in Bordeaux, where its
first meeting was held in IS'Z'i. The maire,
in welcoming the association, referred to the
changes which had taken place in the city
since then all for good, and largely for the
diffusion of knowledge and the promotion
of public comfort. The number of primary
schools had been tripled ; the Lyceum, in
whose halls the sectional meetings were held,
had been built, and faculties of law, science,
letters, and medicine and pharmacy had been
established and an observatory erected ; all
attracting an attendance of more than two
thousand students, and giving the place all
the privileges of a university except the
name. Museums also and art galleries had
been founded, and benevolent institutions
brought into existence. All these, the maire
intimated, were the results of the scientific
activity which began with the meeting of
1872. The president, M. Emile Trelat, took
salubrity as the subject of his address, in
which he gave a felicitous description of the
ideal city of health. The work of the pre-
vious meeting of the association, which was
held at Caen, and the history of the associa-
tion during the year, were reviewed by the
secretary, M. Livon. The association lost
many of its distinguished members during
the year, among whom were Baron Adolphe
d'Eichthal, one of the founders, a benefactor,
and president in 1875 at Nantes; Verneuil,
the eminent doctor, president in 1885 at
Grenoble; Gustave Cotteau, several times
president of the Geological Section ; Al-
phonse Guerin, Ferdinand de Lesseps, Re-
cipen, and Armand Lalande, founders; Vic-
tor Duruy, and others ; and among the for-
eign associates the Russian mathematician
Tchebichef and Carl Vogt, who had attended
a number of the meetings. It appears from
the financial reports presented by M. ifimile
Galante, treasurer, that the year's receipts
of the association were 86,244 francs.
Infectiousness of Milk. The Massachu-
setts Society for Promoting Agriculture has
issued a report of work done under its aus-
pices on the above subject. It being already
