142
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
well established that there was much clanger
of the milk being contaminated if the cow
from which it came had tuberculosis of the
udder, attention was restricted to the ques-
tion whether the milk was ever infected
when the disease was confined to other parts
of the animal. Bacilli were found in the
milk from twelve out of thirty-six tubercu-
lous cows. Milk from six out of fifteen in-
fected cows produced bacilli when inoculated
into guinea-pigs, and the milk of four out of
nineteen cows produced bacilli in rabbits.
Bacilli developed in two out of forty-eight
rabbits, five out of twelve pigs, and eight
out of twenty-one calves to which milk from
tuberculous cows was fed. It is interesting
to note that microscopic examination re-
vealed bacilli in only one out of thirty-three
samples of milk ordinarily supplied to con-
sumers in Boston, but bacilli appeared in
rabbits after inoculation with three of the
samples which gave negative results under
the microscope. A circular sent to eighteen
hundred physicians and veterinarians asking
*' Have you ever seen a case of tuberculosis
which it seemed possible to you to trace to
a milk supply as a cause ? " brought replies
from one thousand and thirteen, eight of
whom reported cases where they believed
children had been infected by mother's milk,
and eleven reported cases in which children
had been infected by cow's milk, while six-
teen spoke of suspicious cases which they
had not been able to verify. Some results
of inquiries as to the prevalence of bovine
tuberculosis and as to tuberculosis among
Hebrews are also given.
Extermination of British Species. In
the inaugural address of the president of
the Cheltenham, England, Natural History
Society, Dr. E. T. Wilson, on Man and the
Extinction of Species, are some historical
notes on the disappearance of certain species
in the British Islands. Within limited areas,
the author says, species were not unfrequent-
ly eradicated before the use of firearms, as
the beaver m England, which, though once
common, was in the twelfth century only to
be found in one river in Wales and one in
Scotland ; and wolves, which were practically
exterminated in four years after the demand
by Edgar for a tribute of five hundred heads
annually from liis Welsh subjects. " But
even the introduction of firearms at first did
little beyond giving man an increased advan-
tage in his contest with the more formidable
of the lower animals. Far otherwise is it,
however, when man, the primitive hunter,
gives place to man the tiller of the soil, man
the cultivator, who fells forests, drains
marshes, plows prairies, and in a thousand
ways alters the face of Nature." To most of
the larger quadrupeds, and to many birds,
space is of vital importance, and space is
being rapidly curtailed. The bustard, de-
scribed by Bewick as common on the plains
of Wiltshire, Dorset, and Yorkshire, has dis-
appeared before advancing cultivation. The
egret and the crane, once common in Scot-
land, are now among the rarest of visitors.
Drainage in the broads and fens has led to
the banishment of many former inhabitants,
such as the grey lag goose, and in many
parts the bearded tit. Between 1825 and
1855 the avocet, the bustard, and the god-
wit ceased breeding in Norfolk. About the
same time the ruff became uncommon, and
the bittern left off breeding regularly in
1850. Eagles and large hawks, such as the
kite and the buzzard, and among mammals
the otter and even the harmless badger, are
becoming rarer year by year before the gun
or the trap of the gamekeeper; while the
trade collector, with his demand for whole
clutches of eggs, contributes to the destruc-
tion of some of the rarer species. In 1893
an item was published that two sloops had
visited the island of Foula in the Shetland?,
the chief breeding station of the great skua,
and carried off several dozens of the eggs,
and there was reason to believe that not a
single young bird was reared on the island
during the breeding season of that year.
The Feigning of Death. The probability
of this phenomenon being a pure reflex, in
most animals, is indicated by the following
experiment on a currant moth, whose powers
of " shamming " are so familiar, which is
described in a recent letter to Nature by a
Mr. Oswald H. Latter : " The moth was first
seized by one wing, and it at once feigned
death ; thereupon its head was cut off with
a pair of scissors, and the miimal cotitinued
to feign death. I use the expression advised-
ly, for absolute immobility was maintained
for some seconds and then violent fluttering
