FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
H3
ensued, causing the animal to rush wildly
about the table, but failing to lift it into the
air. In this condition any impulse, such as
touching or pinching, induced a repetition of
' shamming.' After a strong impulse the
shamming was prolonged, and, indeed, a
direct connection was obvious between the
strength of stimulus and the length of period
of quiescence. This power of response to
stimulus was maintained for two days, and
then weak fluttering set in for some hours,
followed by death. "We are forced, then, to
conclude that here, at any rate, death-feign-
ing is a purely reflex phenomenon, and that
the sensory stimulus received by the surface
of the body caused inhibitory impulses to
arise reflcxly from the ganglia of the cen-
tral nerve chain, and prevented all movement
of the locomotor muscles. In confirmation
of this it may be mentioned that denuding
the wing of its scales over any area caused
a marked diminution of sensitiveness over
the area so treated. Since all stages be-
tween sensory hairs and ordinary scales oc-
cur in Lepidoptera., it is not unreasonable to
assume that the scales still function as tac-
tile end organs in spite of their modification
subserving decorative purposes."
MINOR PARAGRAPHS.
Navigators and other writers of the six-
teenth and seventeenth centuries speak of a
pretended art of controlling the winds which
was claimed by Finnish and Lapp wizards,
who sold wind in packages consisting of a
cord with three knots. " If the first knot
is untied," Grimm says, " the wind be-
comes favourable ; if the second, a still bet-
ter wind is secured ; but a tempest inevita-
bly follows the undoing of the third knot."
Speaking of Greenland, Nightingale says:
" The sailors of the north are so credulous
that they often buy these magical cords ;
and they believe that, if they follow the in-
structions concerning the way of untying
them, they will get whatever sort of wind
they want." Like accounts are given by
Leems and Scheffer; and the belief is re-
ferred to by Shakespeare in Macbeth.
A SUMMARY is published in the journal
Himmel und Erde of reports made to the
Bureau of Statistics in Berlin, which seem to
show that cases of damage from lightning
are regularly increasing. Thus while, accord-
ing to Prof, von Bezold, the average number
of accidents per year in Bavaria was thirty-
two from 1833 to 1843, it has gone up from
period to period till in 1880-83 it was one
hundred and thirty-two; and, while in 1855
one hundred and thirty-four persons were
struck by lightning and seventy-three of them
were killed, the number struck thirty years
later was one hundred and eighty-nine, of
whom one hundred and sixty-one were killed.
The increase is ascribed to a variety of causes,
among which are the use of electricity in in-
dustry; changes worked upon the earth's
surface by the cutting away of woods, drain-
age, etc. ; and the fouling of the air with
coal smoke.
As presented by General Greely in a pa-
per at the recent International Geographical
Congress, arctic exploration has passed
through three important phases. The first
was a commercial phase, when the discov-
eries of Chancellor gave rise to the Mus-
covy Company and the institution of trade
between Great Britain and Russia. The sec-
ond was the geographical phase, which culmi-
nated in the beginning of the present cen-
tury, and under which an unparalleled wealth
of geographical results has been harvested.
The third phase of scientific investigation
has been prominent in later years, and now
dominates, so that no expedition can com-
mand support unless its aim is scientific.
Altogether, it can be proved that arctic in-
dustries have contributed some $12,250,-
000,000 to the wealth of the world.
Herr S. a. Andree presented his plan for
a balloon expedition to the north pole before
the recent International Geographical Con-
gress. He advises that the balloon should
be capable of carrying three persons, neces-
sary instruments, and provisions for four
months ; that it should be so impermeable
that it can be kept afloat thirty days ; that it
be filled somewhere in the arctic region, and
be to a certain extent steerable. The start
should be made in July, as early as the
weather would permit, on a clear day with a
brisk south wind blowing, so that it may go
north quickly. The central and most inac-
cessible part of the polar region should be
