144-
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
aimed for. Besides geographical work, ex-
tensive meteorological observations should
be carried on, all possible data collected, and
the topographical outfit should not be for-
gotten.
M. Charles Dufour has found, from ob-
servations of the variations of refraction on
the Lake of Geneva, that when the air is
colder than the water the refracted ray is
turned from the perpendicular, and that fine
mirages like those of the desert are present-
ed ; while, when the water is colder than the
air, the refraction is toward the perpendicu-
lar, and objects may be seen which are usu-
ally concealed by the roundness of the earth.
Hence the horizon is usually depressed be-
low the average in winter, and less so in
summer. The author suggests that such
variations may sometimes lead to errors in
observations made at sea.
NOTES.
At a ferry across the Yarkand River,
which was crossed by Captain H. Bower dur-
ing a trip to Turkestan, no rafts are kept ready,
bat when wanted they are made by the
villagers from inflated skins and poplar poles.
This raft is tied by a rope to a horse's tail ;
the horse is then driven into the water and
guided by a man strapped to an inflated
skin who swims alongside. " How our things
got safely over," says Captain Bower, " has
been a puzzle to me ever since. The raft
was of the craziest description, and swayed
about in the current, threatening to capsize
every minute. All our things got wet, but
no disaster happened, and nothing was miss-
ing when an inspection of our baggage was
made in the evening.''
A SATISFACTORY pavcmcnt has been made
at Chino, Cal., with the refuse molasses of a
sugar factory there. The molasses is mixed
with sand to about the consistence of asphalt,
and is laid on like an asphalt pavement.
The composition dries quickly and becomes
permanently hard, the heat of the sun only
making it harder.
Having added to its collections during
the past year specimens of the ev, yagu-
anmdi, the fishing cat of India, and the Ben-
galesecat, the Zoological Society of Philadel-
phia has now thirteen species of the cat
family iu its gardens,
Mr. James Constantine Pilling, bibli-
ographer of the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy, who died July 26th, made the study of
the languages and literature of the North
American Indians his life-work. Soon after
becoming connected with the Geological and
Geographical Surveys, under Major Powell,
in 1875, he made himself very useful in
collecting the vocabularies, myths, and le-
gends of the tribes, and in the study and de-
scriptions of their ceiemonials. He retired
from the survey in 1891, on account of fail-
ing health, and devoted himself to the study
of the bibliography of American languages.
He had published, at the time of his death,
nine parts of his work on this subject, relating
to as many languages or families of languages
a work which can not fail to be of gi-eat
value to future students.
Prop. Charles V. Riley, late chief of
the Bureau of Entomology, died in Washing-
ton, September 14th, from injuries received
while riding a bicycle. He was born in Lon-
don in 1843, studied in France and Germany,
came to the United States in 1860, and set-
tled on a farm. He was afterward engaged
in editorial work ; served in the army during
the last year of the civil war ; and was ap-
pointed State Entomologist of Missouri in
1868. In 1877 he was made chief of the
United States Entomological Expedition sent
to investigate the Rocky Mountain locust.
Later he was placed in charge of the en-
tomological division of the Bureau of Agri-
culture. He was a prolific writer, chiefly of
entomological monographs. He received a
gold medal from the French Government for
his investigation of the phylloxera, and a
medal from the International Forestry Ex-
hibition at Edinburgh.
M. H. Baillon, the French botanist, who
died July 19th, was the author of a Botanical
Dictionary, and a History of Plants, which
have become standard works in their own
country. While he was not a member of
the Academy of Sciences, he had been elected
to the Royal Society.
One hundred and thirty-eight dollars
have been contributed at Princeton Uni-
versity, through Prof. J. Mark Baldwin, to-
ward the memorial to Prof. Helmholtz.
The death is announced of Dr. Hoppe
Seyler, for many years a professor in the
University of Tiibingen, and, since 1852,
Professor of Physiological and Pathological
Chemistry in the University of Strasburg.
He was born in 1825.
Prof. Louis Pasteur, the world-famous
investigator of germ diseases and on those
of the extended application of the system of
inoculation as a remedy and preventive, died
at his home near St. Cloud, France, Septem-
ber 2Sth. He had been in a low condition
for some time as a result of the increasing
paralysis with which he had been afflicted,
but became suddenly worse on Friday even-
ing, the 27th, and suffered much from fre-
quent spasms until a few hours before his
death, when he became unconscious. A bio-
graphical sketch of M. Pasteur was given,
with a portrait, in The Popular Science
Monthly for March, 1882 (vol. xx, p. 883).
