2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
taxation is to our body politic what blood is to the body physical :
if healthy, infusing life and warmth ; but if unhealthy, the agent
for producing discontent, decrepitude, and paralysis.
The absence or existence of limitations on the power of a gov-
ernment to make compulsory levies on the property or persons of
its people for its use or support, constitutes the dividing line be-
tween a despotism and a free government a fact most pertinent
to legal, economic, and societary studies which has attracted little
attention.
The methods and scope of what is called taxation regulate
more than all other agencies the distribution of wealth, which is
really the great question of the future to all nations. Ever since
Adam Smith wrote his paramount work on the Wealth of Nations
the political economists and students of social science have con-
cerned themselves mainly with the production of wealth. That
problem has been practically solved. Wealth is now produced
with a rapidity that the world had never before supposed possible,*
and the laws governing its production have become well under-
stood by those who have made a special study of the subject. An
inevitable result of this condition of affairs has been, that wealth
produced under the greater control that man in general has ob-
tained over the forces of Nature has aggregated itself, as it always
will, in the hands of those whose faculties especially qualify them
to obtain and manage it, and who, in common parlance, have
received the name of " money-getters." These have become enor-
mously rich, while the masses, whose material condition is also
absolutely much better than at any former period of the world's
history, are, however, relatively poorer. Improved facilities for
transportation have greatly facilitated intercommunication,! and
the opportunity thus afforded for the observation of extreme con-
trasts in individual conditions has operated as a very great factor
in occasioning discontent among the masses, who by reason of the
* Recent investigations indicate that the absolute effective force available to the Ameri-
can people for the production of wealth is more than three times greater at the present time
than it was in 18G0. The outflow of British capital for investment in foreign securities
and negotiated in London alone, during the eight years next previous to 1890, has been
estimated by those best qualified to express an opinion, to have amounted to the large sum
of nearly or quite $700,000,000 per annum. And this estimate does not comprise all the
British capital loaned to foreign countries, but only such as was subject to public cog-
nizance.
f The number of people annually transported on the railroads alone in the United States
exceeds many times the total population of the country, the annual number for the New Eng-
land States being more than sixteen times greater than their population. The widening of
the sphere of one's surroundings, and a larger acquaintance with other men and pursuits, have
long been recognized as not productive of content. Writing to his nephew more than one
hundred years ago, Thomas Jefferson thus concisely expressed the results of his own observa-
tion: " Traveling," he says, " makes men wiser, but less happy. When men of sober age
