PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 149
tlie never-ending and predominant theme for discussion alike to
the press, the politicians, the pulpit, Congress, and the local legis-
latures. There had been, indeed, fierce discussions and political
divisions in 1836-'38 respecting the organization and manage-
ment of banks, and the establishment of a national bank ; and in
1840-'41 and 18-46, respecting the construction and adjustment of
the tariff, and the principles of free trade and protection. But
during the decade from 1850 to 18G0 all of these questions were
generally regarded as old-time issues, and by the generation that
then had control of the business and government of the country
were both substantially ignored and forgotten ; and it was dur-
ing the latter years of this period, or from 1851 to 18G0, that the
comparative growth and progress attained by every department
of American trade, commerce, and industry was greater than for
any corresponding period either before or since, in the history of
the nation. During the same decade the increase in population
of the country was returned at 35 "59 per cent, its increase in
wealth at 126*4 per cent, and the average of property to each in-
dividual at $510. In short, it would be difficult to find a more
happy illustration of the influence of the "noninterference" or
" nonobstructive " policy of a government with the trade, com-
merce, and industry of a highly civilized and active people, than
the condition of the United States at that time afforded.
That the country, viewed from a politico-economic standpoint,
was at this time in all respects what it should or might have
been, is not, however, asserted. The institution of slavery, deny-
ing to over four millions of human beings the freedom of the
person, the right to real property, and the blessings of education,
was tolerated and supported by law. The paper and ordinary cur-
rency of the country, neglected by the General Government, and
issued by local banks under almost as many different systems as
there were States in the Union, was as defective as could be well
imagined, and often necessitated a rate of exchange between
the different sections of the country which was equal to or in
excess of the current rates of interest at the principal commer-
cial centers.
But notwithstanding these drawbacks the people in general
were highly prosperous. Pauperism, apart from the large cities,
was almost unknown; wealth was very equitably distributed;
while the opportunities for elementary education were free, and
in all the more densely populated portions of the country amply
provided. In short, the prosperity of the people was so great,
through the utilization of their natural resources, their activity,
and the continued influx of the population and capital of other
countries, that it constituted in itself an obstacle to reform ; and
the nation at large may be said to have actually preferred to en-
