150 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
dure tlie various economic and social evils incident to their situa-
tion rather than devote time to their consideration and meet the
grave political issues consequent upon any change or reforma-
tion. What would have happened ? what would have been the
economic and social condition of the United States, had not the
people of its southern section appealed to the arbitrament of the
sword in the matter of slavery and consented to its peaceful
abolition,* constitutes a most curious and interesting theme for
speculation. Certainly it would have been something without
precedent in the world's former experience.
It was with such antecedents and under such conditions, that
the nation found itself in the early months of 1861 suddenly and
unexpectedly involved in a gigantic civil war, in which its very
existence was threatened by the uprising of at least a third of its
population against the legitimate and regularly constituted Gov-
ernment. The most urgent and important requirement of the
Federal Government at the outset was revenue. Men in excess of
any immediate necessity volunteered for service in the army, but
to equip and supply even such as were needed precipitated an
avalanche of expenditure upon the Treasury. To meet these finan-
cial requirements there was on the part of the Government neither
money, credit, nor any adequate system of raising revenue by
taxation ; the previous reliable supply of revenue from the cus-
toms having at the most critical period, through the diminution
of imports consequent upon the political disturbances, become
subject to a serious and ominous impairment ; while the money
returns from all sources, other than loans, for the year 1862 were
only $2,867,057. For this latter year the total ordinary receipts
of revenue of the Government were but $51,919,000, and its ex-
penditures $456,379,000.
At the outset it was assumed that the war would be short, and
that the expenditures of the Government could be met by the
agency of loans and an issue of paper money, the detailed history
of which, although not yet familiar to the American public, is not
directly pertinent to the subject under consideration, and would
require a separate essay for its presentation in any degree of full-
ness. All direct or internal taxation was accordingly for a time
avoided; there having been apparently an apprehension on the
part of Congress that inasmuch as the people had never been
accustomed to it, and as all machinery for assessment and collec-
tion was wholly wanting, its adoption would create popular dis-
content, and thereby interfere with a vigorous prosecution of
hostilities. Congress accordingly confined itself at first to the
* Subsequent events have made it clear that with the continuance of slavery the devel-
opment of the nation must have been greatly retarded.
