PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 151
enactment of measures looking to an increase of revenue from
the increase of indirect taxes upon imports, and it was not until
four months after the actual outbreak of hostilities that a direct
tax of twenty million dollars was apportioned among the States,
and an income tax of three per cent on all incomes in excess of
eight hundred dollars was authorized, the first being made to take
effect practically eight and the second ten months after date of
enactment. Such laws, of course, became operative in the loyal
States only, and produced but comparatively little revenue ; and
although the sphere of taxation was soon extended, the aggregate
receipts from all sources by the Government for the third year
of the war from excise, income, stamps, and all other internal
and direct taxes was less than forty million dollars, and that too
at a time when the expenditures were in excess of sixty million
dollars per month, or at the rate of more than seven hundred
million dollars per annum. And as showing how novel was this
whole system of direct and internal taxation to the people, and
how completely the Government officials were lacking in all ex-
perience in respect to it, the following incident may be cited :
The Secretary of the Treasury in his report for 1863 stated that
with a view of determining his resources he had employed a very
competent person, with the aid of practical men, to estimate the
probable amount of revenue to be derived from each department
of internal taxation for the current year. The estimate arrived
at was eighty-five million dollars, but the actual receipts were
less than forty million $37,640,787.
The people of the loyal States were, however, more determined
and earnest in respect to this matter of taxation and revenue than
were their rulers, and everywhere the one opinion expressed was,
that taxation in all its forms should immediately, and to the
largest extent, be made effective and imperative. And Congress,
spurred up by and rightfully relying on public sentiment to sus-
tain its action, at last resolutely took up the matter, and devised,
or rather drifted into, a system of internal taxation which for its
universality and peculiarities has no parallel in anything which
had theretofore been recorded in civil history, or is likely to be
thereafter.
The great necessity of the situation was revenue, and to obtain
it speedily and in large amounts through taxation was the only
principle recognized (if it can be called a principle), and was akin
to that recommended to the traditionary Irishman on his first
visit to Donnybrook Fair : " Wherever you see a head, hit it ! "
"Wherever you find an article, a product, a trade, a profession, a
sale, or a source of income, tax it ! And so an edict went forth to
this effect, and the people cheerfully submitted. Incomes under
five thousand dollars were taxed five per cent, with an exemption
