152 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of five hundred dollars and lionse rent actually paid. Incomes
in excess of five thousand dollars and not in excess of ten thou-
sand dollars were taxed two and a half per cent in addition, and
incomes over ten thousand dollars, five per cent additional, with-
out any allowance or exemptions whatever. Nearly every indus-
trial product was taxed. Cotton was taxed at the rate of two
cents per pound; salt, six cents per hundred pounds; tobacco,
from fifteen to thirty-five cents per pound; cigars, from three
to forty dollars per thousand ; sugar, from two to three cents and
a half per pound. Distilled spirits were taxed progressively ; first
at twenty cents, and finally at two dollars per proof gallon.
But the most curious and complex taxes were those imposed
on the various products of what may be termed ordinary manu-
facturing industry a tax, by intent or construction, being first
imposed on the raw material, and then on the total or increased
value, according to circumstances, of each successive stage of its
elaboration up to the finished product. And, as if this was not
enough, every manufacturer was compelled to take out an annual
license, while the goods produced, if sold by dealers or agents
independent of the manufacturers, were subject to an additional
tax of one tenth of one per cent, reckoned upon the amount of
sales. This tax upon manufactures and products, with the excep-
tion of a few articles, was at first fixed, in 1864, at an average of
five per cent ; but in 1865 the rate was increased twenty per cent,
making the tax for most articles six per cent.
Under the operation of this system the Government actually
levied and collected on many articles of finished industrial prod-
ucts a tax of six per cent, the effect of which may be thus illus-
trated : Many manufacturing establishments sold products an-
nually to three times the amount of their invested capital. If the
capital invested was one hundred thousand dollars and the sales
three hundred thousand, the tax on that business was eighteen
thousand dollars, or eighteen per cent on the cost of the establish-
ment.
The sales of its products by a manufacturing establishment are,
however, no indication of its profits. It may make and sell to the
amount of a million dollars without making a dollar of profit,
but that, under the law, was no reason for the nonassessment and
noncollection of a tax of sixty thousand dollars on the value of
the product represented by its sales.
Again, the effect of the tax on every stage of elaboration of a
manufactured product may be illustrated by a great variety of
actual examples. Thus, in the case of the manufacture of um-
brellas and parasols, it was shown that separate taxes were paid,
first, on- the sticks or supporting rods ; then upon the handles, if
carved or turned separately, of bone, wood, or ivory ; then, in like
