PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 153
manner, upon the brass runners, the tips, the ribs, the cloth com-
posing the cover, the elastic band which fastened the cover when
closed, the rubber of which the band was composed, the button to
which it was attached ; and finally upon the umbrella itself, when
the separate parts were aggregated, and thereby converted into a
finished product. And if any of the constituents of the umbrella
as the ivory, the silk, or the metal were of foreign production,
the same were subjected on coming into the country to an import
duty in addition.
In the case of books and pamphlets, it was proved by the New
York Publishers' Association that, including the license and in-
come taxes, the finished book and its constituent materials paid
from fifteen to twenty separate and distinct taxes before it
came to the reader the paper and its constituents, the cloth, the
glue, the starch, the leather, the slaughtered animal whence the
hide furnishing the leather was obtained, the dyes with which
the cloth or leather was colored or stained, the thread, the gold
leaf, the type metal, the type, and the printing machinery ; and
then, when the whole was combined, the finished book paid an
additional tax of six per cent, which was levied not upon the cost
of manufacture but upon the price at which the book was sold.
In addition to all these taxes, the manufacturer or publisher paid
for the privilege of doing business an annual license tax, and an in-
come tax of from five to ten per cent on his profits, if he had any.
In short, it was as if a frontier line had been drawn about each
individual article or product in the nation, across which nothing
could pass without being submitted to an exaction.
Besides these taxes on manufactured products of the character
specified, a tax of from three to six per cent was imposed on re-
pairs when the value of the article repaired was increased by the
reason of the repairs to the extent of ten per cent ; and a further
tax of six per cent on what was termed " increased values," or the
additional value given to any article, which had either paid an
import or internal tax, by being "polished, painted, varnished,
waxed, gilded, oiled, electrotyped, galvanized, plated, framed,
ground, pressed, colored, dyed, trimmed, or ornamented."
The examples of difficult and nice adjudication experienced
in enforcing these two classes of taxes are so curious as to justify
somewhat more than a passing notice. Thus, if a worker in tin
or iron made a stove at one hour and in the next hour repaired a
stove to the extent of more than ten per cent of its value, he paid
on the product of his first hour's work a tax of six per cent, and
on his second three per cent. In like manner, a blacksmith making
a taxable article, and then repairing one exactly like it, was liable
to the payment of the two classes of taxes ; and the theory of the
law, furthermore, was that both the tinsmith and the blacksmith
VOL. XLVIIl. 11
