154 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
kept a separate and distinct account of their different transac-
tions. Again, if a worker in wood repaired a wheelbarrow worth
one dollar, and by so doing added ten cents to its value, the in-
creased value was taxable. But if, on the other hand, he repaired
a carriage or pianoforte worth five hundred dollars, no tax ac-
crued unless the value of the repairs exceeded ten per cent, or
fifty dollars. The following absurd case was presented for adju-
dication under these statutes :
A wheelwright repaired a carriage to the extent of eight per
cent. The owner then passed it successively to a blacksmith, a
painter, and an upholsterer, neither of whom added repairs to
the extent of ten per cent, or knew the value of previous repairs
or the value of the carriage before it was repaired. The question
then was, shall the repairs, however extensive, go untaxed, or
shall the owner be taxed ? The construction of the law was,
that the tax must be assessed on the manufacturer, or persons re-
ceiving pay for the work, and that the owner could not be the
manufacturer unless he furnished the materials, in whole or in
part, for making the repairs ; and then the further question arose,
whether the subject of repair in the shape of the old carriage fur-
nished \>^ the owner was a material for making the repair, and
thus constituted the owner a manufacturer, and as such liable to
taxation.
In another case the question came up whether the publishers
residing in one assessment district and having their books printed
and bound by contract in another, were to be regarded as manu-
facturers of the books ; or whether the printers and binders who
executed the work were to be so regarded and taxed. And in two
instances, in two contiguous districts in the State of Massachu-
setts, the law was interpreted in both ways, or in one way in one
district and another way in another district ; and the parties in-
terested submitted rather than incur the trouble and expense of
contesting the matter before the courts.
In fact, it is safe to say that no more complicated and absurd
questions have ever seriously occupied the minds of educated
men since the discussions of the schoolmen in the eleventh and
twelfth centuries (as, for example, as to how many angels could
stand at once on the point of a fine needle), than were evolved
from the tax system of the United States during and for some
time after the war period.
We have said that the people of the United States submitted
to such a system. They did more. For such was the fervor of
patriotism and the determination to push the war to a successful
issue, that they rejoiced in it ; and during the continuance of hos-
tilities there was no movement or protest against the system which
found any notable response among the masses. The country was
