NEW EVIDENCE OF GLACIAL MAN IN OHIO. 157
latter period of greatest increase in prices that the heaviest pur-
chases were made by the Government on account of munitions
and supplies. The increased cost of the war by reason of this in-
crease in the price of commodities, which in turn may be in a
great degree attributed to the use of irredeemable paper money
invested with legal-tender quality, has been estimated * at over a
thousand millions of dollars, and the interest on this increased
cost, another equal sum. By so much, furthermore, as these sup-
plies and other necessaries of life were increased in price through
the depreciation of the currency, those who rendered personal
service in the army and navy were deprived of what ought to
have been the purchasing power of the payments made to them
by the Government for such service.
NEW EVIDENCE OF GLACIAL MAN IN OHIO.
By Trof. G. FREDERICK WRIGHT.
THE doubt which lingers in the minds of many concerning
the sufficiency of the evidence for the existence of man in
America during the Glacial period is so great, and has been so in-
dustriously fomented in certain quarters, that special interest has
been manifested in a fresh discovery recently brought to light in
Ohio. The discovery consists of a chipped chert implement, one
inch and three quarters long and three quarters of an inch wide
in its broadest part, with a projecting shoulder upon one edge,
giving to it the character of what, in aboriginal usage, would be
called a knife. The implement was found a mile and a half be-
low Brilliant Station on the Ohio River, six miles from Steu-
benville, Ohio. In view of recent doubts upon the subject, it is
necessary to give special attention to the evidence in three par-
ticulars : 1. The competence and character of the discoverer.
2. The facilities for noting the undisturbed condition of the
gravel in which the implement lay. 3. The evidence that the
gravel is of glacial age.
1. The Competence and Character of the Discoverer. Mr. Sam
Huston, the discoverer, is a graduate of the Scientific Department
of Washington and Jefferson College, and has for twenty years or
more been the county surveyor of Jefferson County, Ohio, resid-
ing at Steubehville. Having charge of the public improvements
of the county, especially of the construction of the turnpikes, his
familiarity with the topography, and especially with the gravel
deposits along the river terraces, extensively resorted to for road-
* Edward Atkinson.
