NEW EVIDENCE OF GLACIAL MAN IN OHIO. 161
on both sides of tlie river. The most significant thing about these
high-level terrace deposits is that they contain granitic pebbles^
which are a sure indication that the deposit is postglacial ; for
none of the tributaries of the Ohio River have access to granite
rock, except as fragments have been brought over from Canada
by the glacial movement and deposited within their reach.
A sharp discussion concerning the age of the gravel upon
these high rock shelves is in progress. On the one hand, Prof. T.
C. Chamberlin contends that there have been two glacial periods ;
that the first period came on before the elevation of land which
led to the erosion of the rock gorge, and that therefore this ero-
sion is wholly interglacial, and is evidence of the lapse of an
extremely long time between the two periods. On the contrary,
I have maintained that the evidence of two distinct glacial
periods was insufiicient, and have regarded the erosion of this
Fig. 3. Section of the Trough of the Ohio at Bkilliant.
Location of the implemeut shown by a *.
inner rock gorge as preglacial that is, as having been effected
during the progress of that long period of late Tertiary elevation
which culminated in the Glacial period. On this view of the
case, the deposits of glacial gravel upon the three-hundred-foot
rock shelf have been produced partly by an extensive filling up
of the Alleghany gorge as far as Pittsburg and somewhat below,
and lower down by the effect of the Cincinnati ice-dam, which set
back the water up to this level, and is sufficient to account for
many of the facts. Under this view these high-level deposits
would coincide approximately with what Dana calls the " Cham-
plain epoch," during which there was considerable depression of
land at the north, the influence of which may have been felt as
far south as the latitude of Pittsburg.
But whatever may be the difference of opinion about the age
of these high-level gravels, there is no disagreement about the
glacial character and relatively late age of the lower terraces
along the Ohio River such as occur at Steubenville and Brilliant.
The rock gorge extends on the average a hundred feet below the
present bottom of the river, having been filled up originally by
gravel not only to that extent, but to the level of the terrace in
which the implement was found. That this extensive deposition
