NEW EVIDENCE OF GLACIAL MAN IN OHIO. 163
The northern tributaries of the Ohio had both these advantages
(or disadvantages), and therefore they have the terraces. On the
Ohio these are always larger and higher where a tributary conies
in from the glaciated region to the north, as, for example, at the
mouth of Big Beaver Creek, where the terrace is a hundred and
thirty feet above low- water mark. But down the river the sup-
ply of gravel diminished, and the terrace becomes correspondingly
lower, being at Steubenville and Brilliant only seventy or eighty
feet above low water.
I have personally examined every stream emerging from the
glaciated area from the Atlantic Ocean to the Mississippi River,
and can testify that everywhere substantially the same system of
gravel terraces marks them as that which characterizes the Ohio
and its tributaries. Without doubt they were formed during the
closing stage of the period, when both great torrents of water and
vast deposits of glacial debris were periodically released by the
melting ice sheet.
So far as direct evidence is concerned in estimating the age of
implements in these terraces, it relates to the question whether or
not they have been found in undisturbed strata of the original
terrace. If they are so found they are as old as the deposition of
the gravel which took place in glacial times ; for since that period
of deposition the action of the present river has been confined to
eroding an inner channel, such as is shown in Fig. 3, and to work-
ing over the gravel within the limits of its own flood-plain. No
disturbances by present floods could affect the gravel of the
eighty-foot terrace. That has remained constant from the time
of its original deposition.
The direct evidence, therefore, regarding this implement would
seem to be as clear and positive as it is possible to be. Relying
upon the strength of this, I took the implement to the meeting of
the American Association for the Advancement of Science at
Springfield, Mass., in August last with great confidence. Nor was
this misplaced. On being submitted, at a joint meeting of the
Geological and Anthropological Sections, to Prof. F. W. Putnam,
Mr. F. H. Gushing, Miss Alice Fletcher, and others, the corrobo-
rative indications of its antiquity were readily and emphatically
recognized.
Prof. Putnam remarked upon the distinctness with which it
retained the patina indicative of the conditions in which it is said
to have been found, and said without hesitation that the imple-
ment in itself bore evidence of being a relic of great antiquity.
Mr. Gushing remarked that there could be no question that it
was a finished implement, and not a "reject"; and that not only
had it been finished by careful chipping all along the edge, but
it had been finished twice, having been at least once resharpened
