igo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
young men, his length of lower limb is up to the one-hundred-
per-cent class, as in the case of Johnson (see Chart A, No. 2).
His other bone lengths are low, except his feet, which are
long. The hip and elbow girths show heavy bones. An old
fracture of the left femur, with shortening, invalidates the thigh
measures somewhat, but the calves are away below the knee
girths, while the insteps show a condition of flat foot in this
man also.
Great breadth and depth show splendid lung power in a chest
round, capacious, and barrel-shaped, but not very mobile, for he
has small expansion. His pulse is rather fast (eighty-four), and
his strength tests, much above his muscle measurements, would
give the impression that if determination and will power can do
it he will always be a winner.
In his case, as in that of all the men whose measurements are
here shown, the left thigh is the larger, probably from having
to bear the body weight in turning the corners of a rink. Fig. 5
shows well the rounded shape of the chest in exj^ansion, also the
type of figure shown in the chart.
J. K. McCulloch, of Winnipeg, is certainly the best representa-
tive that Canada has produced lately in speed skating, and he
takes front rank both in this sport and in bicycling. We would
hardly expect the typical development of a skater, however, in
this man, who excels as a gymnast and all-round athlete as well.
At eleven years of age he was winning boys' races, and his sum-
mer evenings are taken up by rowing, canoeing and lacrosse.
For the last three years bicycling has been his main form of ath-
letic exercise during the five summer months. In winter he is
the mainstay of the Winnipeg Hockey Team, and his special
'penchant for the parallel bars in the gymnasium shows in the
well-developed arms and chest. His measurements, plotted on
Chart B, show a few of the characteristics of the skater. With
height in the thirty-per-cent class we find comparatively short
legs and long thighs. His arms are also short. A glance at Fig.
6 well shows the shortness of his leg. His muscle girths are in
the eighty to ninety per cent class, while his knee-bone measure-
ments are down to twenty per cent ; his narrow hips give origin
to very powerful muscles, whose girth make up for these bony
deficiencies to speed skating (see Fig. G). His calves are large,
but he tells me since he stopped wheeling, four months ago, they
have decreased nearly an inch and a half in girth.
His chest is deep and his strength tests show well- developed
arms and back. Fig. G shows where his extraordinary speed is
obtained : the driving power lies in the very long and muscular
thighs. This young man is a natural athlete, and, although not
built for a skater, excels in that sport as he would in almost any
