SUGGESTIBILITY AND KINDRED PHENOMENA. 193
disastrous to symmetrical development. This type of figure is
seen at its best in such skaters as the Donahues, McCormick, the
old-time professional, who still skates a fast race although now
forty years of age, and in "Wilson Breen, a professional, who has
been a winner of much gold and glory by means of his long legs
and powerful thighs.
The conclusion that speed skating alone is not a good exercise
to develop a well-built, symmetrical man will be patent to any
one who reviews the facts. If indulged in, it should be, as done
by McCulloch, in conjunction with other forms of athletics
which bring into action the muscles of the arm, calf, shoulders,
and chest.
SUGGESTIBILITY, AUTOMATISM, AND KINDRED
PHENOMENA.*
By W. EOMAINE NEWBOLD, Ph. D.,
assistant peofessor of phil060pht in" the university of pennsylvania.
I. MENTAL CO-ORDINATION AND ORGANIZATION.
THE thoroughgoing parallelism of mind and brain may be
regarded as an accepted principle of current psychology.
There remain, it is true, a few psychologists who dispute it, and
many of those who accept it as a working principle refuse to re-
gard it as final. It is conceivable, say they, that when our knowl-
edge is more complete we shall discover that the relation of mind
and brain is very different from what we now suppose it to be.
Yet we may be sure that the facts upon which the doctrine of
parallelism rests will never be set aside by any new discoveries,
and will find their place in that final theory toward which we are
slowly moving.
It is somewhat surprising that few, even of those who accept
this theory as a working hypothesis, have endeavored to carry it
out into all its logical implications and to see how far they will
fit the actual facts. It is my own belief that the more thoroughly
this is done the more probable does it appear that every mental
state has its accompanying physical process, and the more rigor-
ously we apply the dynamic conceptions suggested by our scanty
knowledge of these physical processes to their accompanying
* I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to the recent French and English writers on
these topics, especially to Pierre Janet, with whose theory as developed in his work,
L'Automatisme Psychologique, the above doctrines are essentially identical. It should be
noted, however, that Janet expressly repudiates any attempt to bring his psychological
theory into connection with our psycho-physiological speculations.
TOL. XLVIII. 14
