194 ^^^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mental states, the more intelligible does our inner life become to
lis. Especially is this true of certain curious phenomena to which
our current psychology pays little attention those of automa-
tism, suggestibility, and double consciousness as seen in hypnosis,
spirit-writing, trance speech, et id genus omne. Not that we are
yet in position to explain these phenomena in detail. There is
much that defies analysis at our present stage of knowledge, but
I have no hesitation in saying that in these dynamic conceptions
we have found the key which will in time solve these and many
other psychological riddles.
We know little or nothing of what happens in the brain while
we live and move and have our being. In the early days of ex-
perimental psychology the physical bases of mental states were
crudely conceived as gross movements, either of the nerves them-
selves or of some fluid supposed to flow along the nerves and
veins to the brain and heart. Nowadays these simpler concep-
tions are displaced by theories of chemical activities or molecular
vibrations of some kind. For my own part, I am sometimes in-
clined to suspect that the true physical basis is none of these, but
a disturbance of the same medium that transmits light and heat
the ether and to regard the cellular and fibrous structures of
the nervous system as a mechanism for producing and transmit-
ting these disturbances, much as the battery and wires of an elec-
tric circuit produce and transmit that mode of ethereal disturb-
ance which we call electricity. However this may be, it is quite
certain that the processes which take place in the nervous system
are all of one order and are analogous to nay, a part of the phys-
ical transformations of energy which we see in the outer world.
Their proximate source is the stored-up molecular energy of the
food we eat; they are disengaged by the operation of external
and internal stimuli ; they can re-enforce or destroy one another ;
they can produce extensive muscular, secretory, and nutritive
changes in the body.
Although all of these processes are of essentially the same
order in that all taken together form one system of forces, the
constitution of every part of which depends for its character upon
the constitution of all the coexisting parts, it is probable that con-
sciousness is not connected with every part of the system, but
only with those processes that take place in the cortex that is,
the outer layer of gray matter that covers the surface of the
brain. At every moment of conscious life the cortex is the scene
of activities so delicate and complex that we can never hope to
frame an adequate conception of them. The masses of cells are
forever disengaging pulse after pulse of molecular or ethereal
disturbance, probably of a vibratory character ; by the countless
systems of interlacing fibers these pulses are transmitted from
