SUGGESTIBILITY AND KINDRED PHENOMENA. 197
ment involves a very complex co-ordination of the forces that
underlie it. And I have also shown that the permanent existence
of any element of consciousness, if at all complex, involves not
merely a co-ordination, which might be temporary, but a perma-
nent organization of certain of those forces into enduring sys-
tems. Not enduring in the sense that they are always actively
operating, but in the sense that when any one element is active it
calls into activity the other elements as well. The same is true of
consciousness as a whole. We may discern this in two quite dif-
ferent forms. The first is what we may call the permanent form
of consciousness. We observe that at any given time conscious-
ness has a certain form of organization which is so constant that
we are tempted to think it can not exist in any other form. Some
one element or organized group of elements tends to be more clear
and distinct than the others. This one is called the center of at-
tention or focus of consciousness ; the others constitute the mar-
gin. From moment to moment the focus shifts; new elements
rise into dominance, and the old fade away. Yet there is always a
dominant element, and this it is to which we attend. Usually the
focus and margin are inversely related to one another ; that is to
say, when any given group tends to become more clear and dis-
tinct the other elements tend to lose with respect to clearness and
distinctness. This is what we mean when we say that we can not
attend to two things at once. But it is not always true. There
are states in which the heightening of one element tends to
heighten all the others as well. In imminent danger, for in-
stance, there is frequently an intense exaltation of the total con-
tent of consciousness, and the same phenomenon is occasionally
found as a precursor of an epileptic attack. Now, this constant
form into which consciousness tends to fall, and which is, by the
way, the basis of our notion that the mind is a single entity of
some sort, is very suggestive. We know that all physical forces,
if they can in any way act upon one another, tend to coalesce into
one common resultant, and I think it probable that in the law of
attention we see the mental manifestation of some form of coa-
lescence between the physical forces which form its basis.
Again, the consciousness of each of us forms a permanent
entity which we severally call " myself." Into all the problems
connected with this word of many meanings I can not enter, but
of one thing we may be quite certain whatever the consciousness
of self may be, it is largely dependent upon the continuity and
uniformity of our memories. Any great change in a man's life
which introduces into his present a mass of experiences quite out
of keeping with his past is apt to introduce into his consciousness
of personal identity a strange sense of unreality and uncertainty.
He rubs his eyes and says : " Who am I ? Am I really John
