PROF. FORBES ON ''HARNESSING NIAGARA:' 199
to call for notice at this moment is a paper by Prof. Forbes,
which appeared in the September Blackwood's, entitled Har-
nessing Niagara.
It is doubtful if any American magazine would have pub-
lished that article, even had it contained fewer references to the
shortcomings of the United States. It seems to us, however, that
it would have been much better for it to have appeared in this
country than in Great Britain, because of the freer criticism it
would here have had, and because America's faults would then
have been told where it might be hoped that, coming from so
authoritative a source, certain valuable reforms would result.
A large portion of the article is devoted to a description of
Forbes's own unusual endowments and capabilities, natural and
acquired, which, it would appear, fitted him for the position of
consulting electrical engineer to the Cataract Construction Com-
pany, not less than for the suppression of the American railway
conductor.* A perusal of the article brings to one's mind the
couplet by a famous English librettist :
" He was the bravest man in France ;
He said so, and he ought to know."
Having noted the title of the paper, we are astonished at the
space that is devoted to yjlacing the demerits of this country in
relief against the author's excellences, especially in so short an
article. To quote certain instances, he says: "There are two
great mistakes commonly made as to Americans : one is, that
they are original inventors ; the other is, that they are humor-
ous. Neither of these propositions is true." The chief argument
he advances against our possession of humor is that " their
periodical literature is filled with so-called wit, but it smells
strongly of the midnight oil." This is most sadly true, but, if
one on this side of the water may judge, how much more so is it
with British publications of alleged humorousness ! The pro-
fesssor admits, however, that in the matter of humor there are
some most brilliant exceptions in America. May we not ask
whether Great Britain, for instance, can produce exceptions in
this line to vie with the United States ?
In support of his theory that the inventive faculty is lacking
in the New World, he states that Americans are competent
merely to design, not invent, and, by implication, informs us that
his own talents in the inventive line are the real article, and that
* He informs us that on a New York Central train he created disorder in the ranks of
six (?) conductors ("the most insolent class of men in the country"), who filled the
smoking room to the exclusion of himself. The subsequent verdict of one of the con-
ductors is stated to have been that there were no flies {sic) on Prof. Forbes.
