PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 5
ward dealing, he would be regarded as a worthy inmate for the
States prison. But this is exactly what the Government of the
United States does, or proposed to do, in the case of many of its
so-called tax statutes. Thus in the recent income-tax statute it
offered to its citizens considerations in money if they would for-
swear themselves, or practice deception ; and it imposed a direct
and heavy fine on those who were conscientious and truthful.
Again, when the Government imposes a tax of more than a thou-
sand per cent in excess of the prime cost of the article taxed, as
it did in 1864 in the case of distilled spirits (whiskey), it offered a
premium for the perpetration of fraud that human nature as
ordinarily constituted could not resist. Could any course of ac-
tion, if deliberately intended, be more demoralizing to a people ?
Do not these experiences go far in support of the theory that if a
people desire to have a paternal government it would be wise to
choose a despotic form, inasmuch as all experience has shown that
a republican or popular form of government is least fitted for
such work ? Give democracy a firm hold of the reins of govern-
ment, and it is no easy matter, as the French Revolution of 1789
and the present fiscal condition of France exemplify, to restrain
its excesses.
It should not furthermore be overlooked that that class of
the community to whom the questions of morality and religion,
are especially intrusted, rarely, if ever, give this subject of taxa-
tion any attention. If any sermon has ever been preached in this
country by any clergyman of any denomination on the moral
and religious results of a defective system of taxation, the writer
has never heard of it. One reason and apology for such conduct
may be found in the circumstance that intelligent and reliable
expositions of this subject are not readily accessible. Indiffer-
ence or antagonism to the study of taxation is not, however, con-
fined to the clergy. Minds trained in the law are not necessarily,
and indeed rarely, trained thereby to esteem or intelligently dis-
cuss economic subjects. One of the most eminent members of
the American bar recently remarked to the writer that, grant
whatever measure of importance we may to economic principles
and interests, they have no place in the legal profession, the
business of which was, not to make or amend laws as expressed
in enactments, but to interpret and determine their application.
Hence the popularity at the American bar of the legal maxim
stare decisis, which may be interpreted to mean, follow prece-
dents, and do not attempt to invalidate the reasons and conclu-
sions of the lawmakers. Such a theory and rule of practice would,
however, close the door on reason and truth, and constitute an
almost insuperable barrier to all social progress. If Lord Mans-
field, when the negro slave Somerset came before him with a de-
