PROF. FORBES ON ''HARNESSING NIAGARAS 201
ary efforts. One singular example of lack of dignity in tlie paper
under discussion is an attack on Lord Kelvin, describing a line of
action of his as hitherto unknown among professional men, in
which he attempts to take the edge off that statement by men-
tioning that distinguished man as his most esteemed and oldest
scientific friend.
A remarkable thing is that Prof. Forbes admits that there are
exceptions to his somewhat sweeping condemnation of this coun-
try, for, after making the uncompromising generalization about
the average American, he says that it is not necessary to meet
the specimen except in hotels and trains, and thereafter follows a
list of no less than fifteen names in one paragraph of fashionable
friends of his who were, of course, delightful, the bearing of
which on the title matter of the paper is obscure. At the begin-
ning of his article also he makes disparaging reference to our
experts, and, at the end, "wishes to bear tribute to the kindly
friendship which I almost universally experienced at the hands
of American engineers." "We have one fine sentiment to record :
" An Englishman in America should always try to retain his Eng-
lishness." This should apply to any one who is proud of his
country ; but, unfortunately, the reasons the professor urges for
holding that aim in view constitute only another fling at Ameri-
cans.
Turning now to such portions of the paper as do actually bear
upon the Niagara work, we have, as above mentioned, the pro-
fessor's remarkable claim to originality in the matter of the
revolving fields. Again, in describing the steps leading to his
choice of apparatus, he says : " I soon realized the fact that not
only could the latter (alternating) current be more easily obtained
at high pressures, but that it could more easily, and without
moving machinery, be transformed to any required pressure at
any spot when it was wanted." This statement, it is to be re-
gretted, is nothing short of dishonest. Forbes is here speaking
of the year 1890, at which date the fact that he refers to as hav-
ing worked out for himself was literally the A B C of electrical
work, and part of the common knowledge of thousands of " line "
laborers throughout the world.
With regard to the two points so far mentioned the distin-
guished engineer has not sought to belittle the work of others,
but only to magnify his own ; he has not, however, confined him-
self to this more moderate course, and we find him stating that
" the highest scientific authority in America had taken up the
same position as Lord Kelvin," referring to the latter's alleged
strenuous opposition to the use of the alternating current. The
eminent authority referred to would seem to be Prof. Rowland, of
Baltimore, This gentleman, who ought to know what it was he
