202 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
advised, states positively that he did not strenuonsly oppose the
use of the alternating current ; that he did not oppose it at all ;
and that, moreover, his opinion was given in 1889, not 1890; that
what he did advise at that early date, in view of the untried state
of either direct or alternating current transmission, was merely
caution in adopting plans, which advice, we may add, was most
carefully followed, as will be seen from the fact that the main
plans, not to speak of the details, were not decided upon until
three years later, during which interval some most remarkable de-
velopments had taken place both in the design of machinery for
use with alternating current and in the practical transmission of
the latter over an immense distance in Europe.
Our writer says : " Until I went to America the manufacturers
of electrical machinery never had a consulting engineer to reckon
with, but dealt directly with the financiers, who knew nothing
about cost or efficiency of machinery," and reference is later
made to his being the first to get guarantees of performance from
manufacturers of such machinery. The present writer speaks
from personal experience in declaring this to be incorrect. The
way in which a company, larger and even more representative
than the chief one with which Prof. Forbes did business, filled an
eleven-hundred-horse-power contract under guarantee, and later
supplied an auxiliary generator to make the guarantee good,
would perhaps have impressed that gentleman. The particular
occurrence referred to is immediately within the writer's knowl-
edge, and the extremely exacting specifications for the said ma-
chinery were written and insisted upon by consulting engineers
and not by the financiers. It should, however, be unnecessary to
say that, of course, the method of requiring guarantees and of
employing engineers to write specifications was common in the
electrical business, as well as in all others, long before the advent
of Forbes.
There are other points in the professor's paper besides those
already referred to which require contradiction, and still others,
covered by the matter in controversy between himself and Prof.
Rowland, which there is every reason to believe might be im-
proved in the matter of accuracy, but which, since directly oppo-
site statements are put forth by the two men, we must be content
to let stand in default of other sources of information regarding
them.
An opinion of Prof. Forbes that surprises us is set forth in the
sentence, " I had always wished to put the dynamos at the bot-
tom of the pit close to the turbines, and I still believe that this
arrangement would have served us better." It is the opinion
of the writer that it is an unusually good thing for the Niagara
Falls Power Company that the above was not done. In his ex-
