204 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
whicli reticence and a feeling of insignificance are struggling
with each other for supremacy.
Americans have faults and are not more sensitive to having
them pointed out than other people, but the tendency among de-
scendants of Anglo-Saxon stock to resent the imputation of the
possession of visual motes by ill-tempered owners of larger ocular
imperfections is deeply rooted. We have not for many a long day
seen an article in a prominent English journal so well designed,
by its gratuitous disparagements of America, to keep alive the
fast-expiring dislike to the mother country that it is to the
interest of all of us to see buried.
--
HEALTH EXPERIMENTS IN THE FRENCH ARMY.
By STODDARD DEWEY.
THE report made to the French Parliament in April of this
year by General Zurlinden, Minister of War, discloses a new
aspect of that life in barracks to which the armed peace of Eu-
rope condemns all her young men for a period of their best years.
It is nothing less than an experimenting on a giant scale with the
health and resistance to epidemic disease of French youth under
military regimen.
The first and most fatal enemy has always been typhoid fever.
In 1887 the annual number of cases reached eight thousand,
with a death-rate of about eight hundred, for much less than five
hundred thousand men. This gave an average of deaths from
this single disease very nearly equivalent to two out of every
thousand men, while the total mortality of the army was only
8"43 per thousand. In the mortality of French civil life, which
remains at eleven per thousand, the destructiveness of typhoid
fever is still greater, at least in a large number of towns and
cities.
Doctors have long known the cause of the prevalence of this
disease ; but it is not easy to persuade the ordinary citizen of the
necessity of precaution in the use of so common a thing as water.
Jules Simon tells a story, good by way of illustration, of the
alarming typhoid epidemic in Paris a few years ago. Both doc-
tors and Government had warned the people that the germs of
the disease were contained in the water of the Seine, and that
only filtered and boiled water could be used safely. One day a
cafe waiter was discovered replenishing the drinking decanter of
his customers from the common spigot giving forth the river
water in its unadulterated impurity. When reproached with his
deed, he answered indignantly :
