HEALTH EXPERIMENTS IN THE FBENCH ARMY. 207
theory that pure water is a preservative against typhoid fever.
It is probably more apparent than real. It concerns the attend-
ants on the sick in the military hospitals. These men can hardly
be exposed to the danger of drinking contaminated water, and
yet many of their number fall victims to each typhoid epidemic.
In their case the disease seems to have a real contagion. But it
should be remembered that the permanence of their service with
the sick undermines their strength until the system no longer
resists the action of the morbid germs, to which, moreover, they
are exposed in a thousand ways. Their case is no exception to
the rule that, under ordinary conditions of life, typhoid fever is
propagated only by impure drinking water.
With dysentery that other enemy of the soldier, both in gar-
rison and during campaign French military hygiene has not
proved itself so successful. Until 1892 there was even a steady
increase of cases, though not of deaths. Since that time there
has been a diminution of cases and, in a measure, of deaths. So
far, the only amelioration seems to result from a constant super-
vision of the daily disinfecting of privies, and from a provision
of conveniences which spare the soldier the necessity of suddenly
exposing himself to the chill of night in crossing an open yard.
With cholera, on the other hand, the most encouraging prog-
ress has been made. The epidemic of 1893 cruelly tried the civil
population of Lorient. The garrison had but a single case. This
was a soldier who contracted the disease in Vannes, where he had
been in attendance on his mother, who died of it. The same
experience was repeated at Brest, where the civil population
suffered for months together. In the garrison only two cases
declared themselves from jfirst to last. In Marseilles, out of nine-
teen cases there were only three deaths.
For measles and scarlatina the French army has found neither
remedy nor preventive. These diseases come to the barracks
from the civil population, among which they exist permanently.
Both have gone on increasing in the garrisons since 1887 measles
with spasmodic intermittences, scarlatina steadily.
The most disquieting progress has been made by that strange
malady la grippe. This alone, from the first months of the ,
present year, will give a high rate of mortality to 1895 among the
military as well as the civil population. Only one conclusion can.
so far be drawn from the experience of the army. This is the
simple fact that the disease is a permanent danger which military
physicians have henceforth to foresee as they do cholera, cerebro-
spinal meningitis, and diphtheria.
The latter disease, formerly so rare among adults, has also
made alarming progress since 1888 among soldiers. It is now
hoped that the antitoxine (serum) of Dr. Roux will be as success-
