2o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ful in dealing with the dangerous microbe in garrisons as it has
been in children's hospitals.
Vaccination continues to give satisfactory results against
smallpox. Certain attendant dangers, which are often alleged
against it, are avoided by the establishment of what are called
centres vaccinogenes, where military physicians supervise the
preparation of suitable vaccine. This, in the form of a glycerin-
ated pulp, has been distributed to the Madagascar expedition in
quantities sufficient for the revaccination of all the men during
the voyage out, and of all the porters and coolies that may be
needed after the arrival on the island.
In typhus, the lesson of the barracks confirms what has long
been thought to be the only safeguard against its spread. This is
the total isolation of cases. The disease, which is so peculiarly
contagious, seemed to have abandoned France (excepting certain
remote parts of Brittany) after the wars of the first Napoleon.
Two years ago it broke out among tramps in the workhouse of
Amiens, and soon appeared in Paris. It afterward spread among
'the same class of the population, in and out of prison, through
different parts of the country. In the following year, 1894, it
broke out again, to the despair of the medical profession. It
seemed to have come back to stay, though the present prospect is
more favorable. During both these years there were only six
cases in the army. Of these, two occurred among military in-
firmarians who had volunteered their services for the civil hos-
pitals, and one was that of a gendarme whose duties brought
him in close contact with tramps already attacked by the disease.
Certain lessons of hygiene, which have been learned from
harsh experience by the army, are not yet appreciated by the
general public. One of these is the necessity of keeping in hos-
pitals those who are undoubtedly convalescent from epidemic or
contagious diseases. This is sorely against the will of families,
and often of the patients themselves, who demand permission to
complete the cure at home. Formerly, when this was granted, a
frequent consequence was a relapse, and, oftener still, a communi-
cation of the disease to a new circle of the population. This has
.u been especially observed of typhoid and eruptive fevers, dysen-
tery, and the grippe.
The French army also profits by all the recent discoveries in
destroying the germs of disease. Disinfecting apparatus has been
indulged in to such an extent that the health service is ready even
for an unusual epidemic. What the French oddly call " coal-
tarisation" is applied constantly to the woodwork of barracks.
Methods of permanent ventilation have also been adopted. Each
garrison is now being provided with a suitable hospital, and the
separate barracks have infirmaries well fitted up.
