PREHISTORIC ENGINEERING AT LAKE COPAIS. 209
The final result of all this solicitude for the health of the sol-
diers, who are the choice youth of the entire nation, is twofold :
First, the steady lowering of the mortality among them is of
itself an increase of strength to the army and the country. Thus,
during the last five years, on the score of typhoid fever alone,
hygiene has saved to France the lives of twelve hundred and
sixty-five soldiers. In the seven years from 1880 to 188G the an-
nual death-rate was 8"43 per thousand. In the seven following
years it sank to 6'63, and in 1894 to 6*20 per thousand. Meanwhile,
the mortality among people who have not the advantage of living
under enforced hygiene remains at eleven per thousand.
Secondly, the compulsory military service, with all its disad-
vantages, gives the younger generation a strong training in prac-
tical hygiene. All able-bodied Frenchmen now learn, during a
term of years, the practice of bodily cleanliness and what consti-
tutes the health of habitation. These acquired habits they bring
back to civil life.
PREHISTORIC ENGINEERING AT LAKE COPAIS.
By JOHN DENISON CIIAMFLIN.
HOMER, in his famous catalogue of the Greek and Trojan
forces in the second book of the Iliad, enumerates more
than twenty towns around Lake Copais which contributed col-
lectively to the Greek fleet eighty ships, in each of which
"Were six score youths, Boeotia's noblest flower."
The district comprising the Copaic basin was at the time of
the Trojan war, and probably long anterior even to that, one of
the richest and most populous parts of Greece. Its wealth of
myth would prove this, even if historic record were wanting. A
circle with a radius of twelve or fifteen miles drawn around Co-
pais will include more sites famous in romance and in history
than almost any other place of like extent on earth. The Boeo-
tian plain is nearly shut in by mountains the bare mention of
whose names calls up a vast panorama of heroic figures, with a
shadowy background of demigods and of gods reaching back
into cloudland. Prominent above all is double-headed, snow-
crowned Parnassus, with Delphi at its feet, its flanks scarred with
caves and glens down which still leap the waters of Castaly.
South of it, hiding the Corinthian gulf, stretches the range of
Helicon, with its lovely valleys and ravines, home of Apollo and
the Muses. Still farther south is Cithjeron, whose groves echoed
the revels of Bacchus and his .train, and witnessed the punish-
ment meted to Acteon by the virgin goddess. Under its shadow
VOL. XLVIII. 15
