PREHISTORIC ENGINEERING AT LAKE COPAIS. 211
lies Platfea, its soil enriched with the blood of Mardonius and his
Persians ; and not far away Leuctra, fatal to Sparta's power, and
Cadmean Thebes, home of OCdipus and of Antigone, birthplace
of Heracles and of Dionysus, where Amphion sang and the Epig-
oni fought.
The Copaic basin itself and its surrounding hills are dotted
with ruined cities. On the west shore of the lake Minyean Or-
chonienus, from whose colony of lolcus sailed Jason and the
Argonauts, still dominates the plain with its acropolis, its walls
two miles in circuit. Its temple of the Graces, with its musical
festivals, drew thither poets and singers from all the Hellenic
world. Homer compares its wealth with that of the Egyptian
Thebes, and so powerful was it that it held subject all the sur-
rounding region until Heracles slew its king and made it vassal
to Thebes. A little west of it is fatal Chgeronea, where Philip of
Macedon rang the deathknell of Greece, and where, two and a
half centuries later, Sulla overthrew Mithridates. Between it and
Helicon lies Lebadea, where Croesus and Mardonius sought their
fate from the oracle of Zeus Trophonius ; and hard by is Coronea,
famous for its temple of the Itonian Artemis and the Pamboeotian
festival. Near the lake is Tilphusium, with its fountain of Til-
phusa, where blind Tiresias drank and died ; Alalcomenae, which
claimed to be the birthplace of Athene ; Haliartus, under whose
walls Ly Sander fell ; Onchestus, founded by Poseidon's son, meet-
ing-place of the Amphictyonic Council ; Acrsephise, noted for its
oracle of Apollo ; and Medeon, Copfe, Holmones, Hyettus, Hyle,
Peteon, and Ocalea, each famous in ancient story, and most of
which sent ships and troops to Troy.
With all these evidences of pre-Homeric prosperity, one is
tempted to ask, What has changed the conditions in this once
favored and still fertile land, which to-day supports but a few
thousand souls in scattered villages and hamlets ? We find the
answer in Strabo, who says : " The spot which the present Lake
Copais occupies was formerly, it is said, dry ground, and was cul-
tivated in various ways by the Orchomenians, who lived near it."
This traditional account, about the only record of the prehistoric
condition of the Copaic basin we possess, would seem to imply that
it was kept dry artificially, and we find a partial explanation in
other passages in which he describes certain subterraneous cav-
erns and fissures through which the waters were carried off. " If
the subterranean passages are stopped up, the waters of the lake
increase so as to inundate and cover cities and whole districts,
which become uncovered if the same or other passages are again
opened." The memory of such a catastrophe, caused by the stop-
page of the natural conduits, the result of seismic disturbances, as
Strabo intimates, or from want of care in consequence of political
