2 14 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
these four outlets, one passes southward under Mount Sphingium
into Lake Hylice or Likeri, from which there is probably a sub-
terraneous communication with Lake Paralimni and beyond it
with the sea. The three others pass eastward under Mount Ptoum
and its offshoots. The principal one, called the Katabothra of
Bynia, with two openings on the lake side, passes under the Hill
of Kephalari in a general direction from southwest to northeast,
and opens on the east side of the hill in a large grotto about forty-
five metres lower than its source, whence its waters flow through
the deep ravine of the Valley of Larymna into the sea,
Strabo says that Lake Copais is three hundred and eighty
stadia (about forty-seven miles) in circuit, but it differs greatly
at different seasons, sometimes threatening to inundate the whole
valley and sometimes forming only a series of fens overgrown
with reeds the auletic or flute reeds of the ancients, from which
Pan's pipes were made. Its bottom, which is ninety-five metres
above the sea, is a nearly level plain with a slight incline toward
the east and a little elevation in the center. Modern travelers,
from the time of Sir George Wheler upward, have noted on both
its north and its south shores the remains of ancient dykes, in some
parts re-enforced with masonry. These dykes, in several places
still used as roads, have generally been considered as ancient
causeways, means of communication in times of flood between the
towns on the banks ; but they are now shown to be parts of a sys-
tem of drainage canals by means of which the superfluous waters
of the basin were led to the katabothra under the hills.
The recession of the waters through the efforts of the present
engineers has shown that there were three main canals through
the entire length of the lake, branching at their western ends into
subsidiary canals or feeders for collecting the various tributary
waters. These main channels, which for convenience' sake we
will call the north, middle, and south canals, are constructed
partly of excavations and partly of a series of dykes or cause-
ways, strengthened where necessary by walls of cyclopean ma-
sonry. The north canal, the most carefully and solidly con-
structed of the three, receives the waters of the Cephissus and
conducts them into a common channel with those of the Melas,
a stream which, rising near Orchomenus, is navigable almost
from its source. After their junction the waters flow through a
bed, formed on the north by the rocky shore of the lake and on
the south by a massive embankment re-enforced by masonry, be-
hind the island of Topolias, the site of ancient Copse. Thence the
canal leaves the shore and, embanked on both sides, crosses the
Bay of Kephalari and conducts its waters into the natural fissures
under the mountain. This double embankment, though partly
ruinous, is still plainly traceable.
