PREHISTORIC ENGINEERING AT LAKE CO PAIS. 217
the sea and fifty-two metres above the bottom of Lake Copais.
Across this depression, from near the openings of the Katabothra
of Bynia in the Bay of Kephalari, runs a line of ancient wells or
shafts in a general direction from southwest to northeast, not in
a straight line, but following the contour of the hill, ending on
the east side not far from where the katabothra opens into the
Valley of Larymna. There are sixteen of these wells, cut through
the hard, gray limestone of which the mountain is composed, and
carefully squared, with an average horizontal section of three to
four metres. The first shaft, on the west side, is five hundred
metres from the lake ; the sixteenth, on the east side, two hundred
and twenty-five metres from the opening. The wells are at an
average distance from each other of about one hundred and sixty
metres, and the whole distance from opening to opening is about
twenty-four hundred metres.
These shafts are not mentioned by any ancient writer, but
have been frequently described by modern travelers, notably
by Forchhammer, who has given the most complete description
87.95
87.93
WELLS
N. IS
. jjoo_
82.53
.VVELLS
NS. 16
"T~u N rs) e. L_
6^.00
5l
Longitudinal Section between Wei.ls 15 and 16.
of them. The general conclusion in regard to their object was
that they were designed to facilitate the clearing of the kata-
bothra when, from caving or other causes, it had become clogged ;
but in 1846, M. Sauvage, who examined the shafts critically and
cleared several of them, came to the conclusion that they were
part of a tunnel scheme, and were sunk with the purpose of giv-
ing many points of attack to the workmen engaged in excavating
the tunnel instead of a single one at each end. To the ancients,
ignorant of the use of explosives, this was of great importance,
for the cutting with hammer and chisel was arduous and slow.
Even with these numerous shafts, which must themselves have
been a diificult undertaking, the excavation of so long a tunnel
would have cost the labor of many years. In 1882 several more
were cleared and thoroughly examined the first and the second on
the west slope toward the lake and the thirteenth, fourteenth,
fifteenth, and sixteenth on the east slope of the hill. The first
