THE RELIGION OF SAVAGES. 221
or a privilege, or a cliarm, or a preservative against evil, or an
engine of evil against others, it matters little as to whether it be
rendered to God, or spirit, or goblin, or devil, because, whatever
the worship is rendered to, the worshiper honestly feels he is in
the presence of one whose power is needed to aid him in his life
or work, and without whose help he can not be successful.
The chief contestant of universal religiousness has been, and
is. Sir John Lubbock, although the force of circumstances has
driven him of late to change his mode of presenting his contest.
In the earlier editions of his Prehistoric Times he claims that
" almost all the most savage races " are " entirely without a re-
ligion," " without idea of deity,'' and that the " almost universal
testimony of travelers" supports this assertion. In his fifth edi-
tion (1890) he still claims that " almost all the savage races " are
" entirely without a religion, without idea of deity," but he pro-
ceeds to define what religion is not. It is not " a mere fear of the
unknown," it is not " a more or less vague belief in witchcraft,"
it is something " higher" than all this; and if this "higher esti-
mate " of religion be adopted then his original assertion remains
true, that " many, if not all, of the most savage races " are " entire-
ly without a religion, without any idea of a deity." The object of
this definition of the word religion is plain. Between the years
1869 and 1890 evidence as to the religiousness of savage tribes
kept pouring in from all quarters of the world ; the list of un-
believing savages made public by Sir John Lubbock in 1869
was seriously interfered with, and the position taken by Waitz,
that " the religious element, so far from being absent from uncul-
tured peoples, influences their whole conception of Nature," was
powerfully substantiated. Then Sir John Lubbock repairs his
damaged argument, A\^orking with the implements of the most
bigoted member of an old-fashioned missionary society. He de-
fines religion as something spiritually " higher " than the belief
of a Hottentot or Eskimo, and then repeats his assertion of 1869
that " all of the most savage races are entirely without " such " a
religion."
Sir John Lubbock's method (pursued consistently through all
editions) of adducing evidence in favor of his assertion as to the
non-religiousness of savage tribes is palpably unreliable, as far
as he professes to give the full intention of the authors quoted.
Bates, Caillie, Ross, and others certainly say all that Sir John
Lubbock quotes, but they say much more ; and what is left un-
quoted often throws a totally different light on each quotation.
He quotes Caillie as follows : " I tried to discover whether the
Foulahs (of Wassoula, in central Africa) had any religion of
their own ; whether they worshiped fetiches, or the sun, moon,
or stars ; but I could never perceive any religious ceremony
