2 22 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
among them." * Here Sir John Lubbock plainly means to teach,
on the authority of Caillie, that the Foulahs were not even fetich-
worshipers ; that they were positively without any religion of
their own. But if he had read Caillie more carefully read the
context as well as the text he would have discovered that the
Foulahs and kindred tribes were idolaters ; for that well-known
explorer goes on to say : " Wassoula is a country inhabited by
idolatrous Foulahs ; they carry on little traffic, and never travel ;
their idolatry would indeed expose them to the most dreadful
slavery if they did. . . . They have each several wives, like all
other idolaters." It is plain that Caillie here makes a distinction
between higher forms of worship and the grosser worship of
images. He sought for the higher form of worship, and found
no trace of it, but he evidently found the grosser form, or evi-
dence of it. And it was this grosser form of idolatry that made
it dangerous for the Foulahs to travel outside of their limits ; for,
if they had done so, they would have come into contact with
Mohammedanism, pledged to the extirpation of idolatry, and in
many countries to the enslavement of persistent idolaters.
The same lack of thoroughness in quotation is noticeable in
Lubbock's treatment of the testimony of Bates as to the Brazilian
Indians. He says, " According to Bates, ' none of the tribes on
the upper Amazons have an idea of a Supreme Being, and conse-
quently have no word to express it in their language.' " This
quotation is perfectly correct, but it does not imply what Sir
John Lubbock is seeking to prove namely, that " almost all the
savage tribes are entirely without a religion." It simply affirms
that Brazilian Indians do not believe in a Supreme Being an
affirmation that might fairly be made with reference to many
tribes whose beliefs are very apj^arent. But in no sense can
Bates be quoted as a witness to the absence of religious belief
among Brazilian Indians ; his testimony runs in the opposite
direction. " The mind of the Indian," he writes, " is in a very
primitive condition. He has no idea of a Supreme Being, but at
the same time he is free from revolting superstitions, his re-
ligious notions going no further than belief in an evil spirit, re-
garded merely as a kind of hobgoblin who is at the bottom of all
his failures in fishing, hunting, and so forth." f In this testimony
the word " hobgoblin " depreciates in our minds the character of
this supernatural being, but few if any savages have such a word
in their mental vocabulary. Few if any evil spirits worshiped
by savages unite in them the clumsiness and trickery of a hob-
goblin ; their evil, awful spirits are terrors, entering into all as-
* Travels to Timbuctoo, vol. i, p. 303.
f Bates's Life in the Amazons, vol. ii, p. 13*7.
