THE RELIGION OF SAVAGES. 223
pects of life, filled with malignant purposes, and demanding con-
stant worship to propitiate them. Thus the Indians of Caracas,
in Venezuela, north of Brazil, while believing in good spirits,
render all their worship and offer all their sacrifices to a great
evil spirit, and do so because they feel that the good spirits are
naturally friendly and do not require to be lured on to perform
beneficent actions.
Sir John Lubbock's quotation from Ross as to the Eskimo is
equally lacking in thoroughness. Here is his quotation in full :
" Speaking of the Eskimo, Ross says : ' Ervick, being the senior
of the first party that came on board, was judged to be the most
proper person to question on the subject of religion, I directed
Sacheuse to ask him if he had any knowledge of a Supreme
Being ; but, after trying every word used in his language to ex-
press it, he could not make him understand what he meant. It
was distinctly ascertained that he did not worship the sun, moon,
stars, or any image or living creature. When asked what the
sun or moon was for, he said, to give light. He had no knowl-
edge or idea how he came into being, or of a future state ; but
said that when he died he would be put into the ground. Having
fully ascertained that he had no idea of a beneficent Supreme
Being, I proceeded, through Sacheuse, to inquire if he believed in
an evil spirit ; but he could not be made to understand what it
meant." ..." He was positive that in this incantation he did not
receive assistance from anything ; nor could he be made to under-
stand what a good or evil spirit meant.' "
This quotation, standing as it does alone, is unintentionally
unfair to Ross, for Sir John Lubbock either did not notice, or has
forgotten to quote, words used by Ross elsewhere with reference
to the Eskimo, although such words are very important. He
says: "Although there is no proof whatever that this people have
any idea of a Supreme Being, or of a spirit, good or bad, the cir-
cumstance of their having conjurers, and of their going to the
moon after death, are of a nature to prevent any conclusion from
being drawn to that effect ; especially as it must be evident that
our knowledge of their language was too imperfect to obtain the
whole of their ideas on the subject." *
It scarcely required these honest words of Ross, written, no
doubt, to prevent mistakes being made, because in the quotation
as given by Sir John Lubbock nothing can be clearer than the
fact that Ervick did not understand the questions put to him.
"I directed Sacheuse to ask him if had any knowledge of a Su-
preme Being, but after trying every word used in his own lan-
guage to express it, he could not maJce him understand tuJiat he
* Ross, Voyage of Discovery.
