THE RELIGION OF SAVAGES. 227
the Utita of the Hottentots. The term, however, may mean a
ghost, the firmament, or the sun."
Sir John's method of quotation sometimes implies total unbe-
lief without asserting it, as in his quotation from Father Dobritz-
hoffer with regard to the Abipones. The words quoted are, " The
whole language of these savages does not contain a single word
which expresses God or a divinity.^' * These words taken alone
imply atheism, or something akin to it, bat in common fairness
they should not be taken alone, for Dobritzhoffer tells us that the
Abipones hold a somewhat defined faith. They believe in an evil
spirit called Groaperikie i. e.. Grandfather who is represented in
the heavens by the Pleiades. In the month of May, on the reap-
pearance of the constellation, they welcome their Grandfather
back with joyful shouts, as if he had recovered from sickness,
and with the hymn, " What thanks do we owe thee ! And art
thou returned at last ? Ah ! thou hast happily recovered."
Next day they go out to seek honey to make mead, and as soon
as that is prepared they assemble in one place at the setting of
the sun to make public demonstration of gladness. Dobritzhoffer
further tells us that the Abipones, and indeed all the nations in
Paraguay, believe in a system of conjuring, the conjurers being
invested with great powers by the evil spirit Grandfather.
" From their custom of calling up the shades of the dead, we may
deduce that they believe in the immortality of the soul, as may
also be collected from their rites and conversation. The other
people of Paraguay hold the same opinion as to the immortality
of the soul. The jugglers perform the office of priests."
Colden's testimony as to the " Five Nation " Indians of Canada
is presented by Sir John Lubbock in such a way as to imply far
more than Golden intended. Sir John says, " Golden, who had
ample means of judging, assures us that the celebrated ' Five
Nations' of Canada had no public worship or any name for
God." f Golden certainly does tell us that " they have no kind of
public worship," but he plainly never meant to imply that they
had no idea of God because they could not express that idea in
one word. What he says is this : " I am told they have no radi-
cal word to express God, but use a compound word, signifying
the Preserver, Sustainer, or Master of the universe."
When one considers the influence that Sir John Lubbock's
Prehistoric Times has had on the reading public, and the shock
that his statements as to the utter irreligiousness of certain tribes
gave many of his readers, one feels inclined to question his au-
thority as a teacher, when his quotations are submitted to the
simple test of verification. One wonders how such a man as Sir
* Account of Abipones, vol. ii, p. 5*7. f The Five Nations of Canada.
