AMONG THE CANNIBAL ISLANDS. zzg
AMONG THE CANNIBAL ISLANDS.
By LAENAS GIFFOED WELD.
SPREAD out before you a chart of the South Pacific one
upon which are set down the many details useful to the
navigator of this strangely interesting region. Besides the in-
tricate labyrinth of islands, reefs, rocks, and shoals which are
scattered over its surface, there are recorded the variations of the
compass, the directions of the ocean currents, and the results
of countless soundings. Running your pencil through all the
points on this map for which the indicated depth is fifteen hun-
dred fathoms or thereabouts, you will be able to trace out an
irregular and more or less interrupted band, extending from the
East Indian seas nearly to the coast of South America. Within
the area thus marked out the sea is comparatively shallow ; so
that, were its bed to be elevated some thousands of feet, we
should see emerging from its surface a vast continental area,
bordered on the north and south by open seas.
We are told that such a continent once really existed, but
that for thousands of years it has been slowly subsiding. The
coral polyp has all this time been building up the countless reefs
and atolls of this region, keeping their summits flush with the
surface of the sea as the subsidence has gone on ; so that here,
instead of the dull monotony of an ocean desert, we have one of the
most striking physical features of the globe. There are volcanic
masses among these coral islands which, rising some few thou-
sand feet above the level of the great barrier reefs that surround
them, may be looked upon as remnants of this vanishing conti-
nent of the Pacific. Among these ancient landmarks none are of
more interest than the great Fiji group of islands.
Until within quite recent years the word Fiji was regarded as
a synonym for all that is barbaric ; and if that epithet, " King
of the Cannibal Islands," ever had any real claimant, it must have
been in the person of Thakombau, the native potentate who
played so important a part in the history of Fiji from the time
of its first settlement by Europeans till it was formally annexed
by Great Britain.
This regenerate old cannibal had spent the first forty years of
his life in wars with his neighboring chiefs and in the practice of
the most horrible barbarities. The strangling of his own mother
and of his father's four other wives was only a part of the usual
ceremony attending the assumption of the title of Tui Viti, or
King of Fiji. Thakombau was, however, not hostile to the
Wesleyan missionaries who had established themselves within
his domain ; but, while he listened respectfully to their remon-
