230 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
strances, he remained a determined heathen. This continued so
long as he was prosperous ; but when, in 1854, tribe after tribe had
successfully rebelled against him, he began to listen more favor-
ably to the counsels of the Christians. On the 30th of April of
that year he gave orders that the great drums at his capital,
which had been used till then to summon his people to cannibal
feasts, should be beaten to call them together at the mission
house to worship the true God. Two years later, having remained
true to his new faith, he was united in Christian marriage to his
favorite wife, and they were together baptized.
It was the same king who, at a later period, finding himself
a mere puppet in the hands of foreigners, who had formed them-
selves into a government, of which he was the nominal head,
brought about a general appeal from the most powerful chiefs to
England's Queen for protection an appeal which was, in 1874,
listened to with favor. Upon this occasion Thakombau sent to
Queen Victoria his favorite war club, which he himself styled
" the former, and until recently the only known, law of Fiji.''
The territory thus acquired by the British Empire comprises
over two hundred islands of various sizes, some seventy-five of
which are inhabited. The largest, Viti Levu, is oval in form, and
has an area nearly equal to that of the State of Connecticut.
Vanua Levu, lying to the northeast of Viti Levu, rather exceeds
Delaware in size. Between these two islands, which are by far
the largest in the group, is a channel some thirty miles in width ;
but the sea here, as well as over an immense area to the north, is
so full of coral patches that navigation is exceedingly dangerous.
The southern shores of the islands are more accessible, and afford
many excellent harbors, of which that of Suva, the English capi-
tal, on the southeast coast of Viti Levu, is the best.
The study of the difference in the character of the northern
and southern aspects of the larger islands affords an interesting
lesson in physical geography. Thrust upward into the currents
of the southeast trade winds to a height of over four thousand feet,
the mountain ranges act as huge condensers, precijjitating in
torrents of rain the moisture which these currents have absorbed
from the open sea. This condensation takes place principally as
the winds blow up the southern mountain slopes, so that com-
paratively little rain falls upon the north side of the islands.
The largest streams, therefore, flow back down the southern
slopes to the sea, where they discharge immense volumes of fresh
water. As fresh water is fatal to most species of coral polyps, we
find here, along the southern coast, comparatively few of those
dangerous reefs that fringe the islands on the north.
The fertility of the soil, which in the valleys and on all the
southern slopes is thoroughly saturated with moisture, is quite
