AMONG THE CANNIBAL ISLANDS. 231
equal to that of other similar regions. In the dense tropical
forests, which cover large areas, tree ferns, screw pines, and a
multitude of other strange forms contend with one another for
the light of day, while affording nourishment to an immense
variety of epiphytic mosses, lianas, and ferns, which connect the
larger stems and branches with an almost impenetrable network
of green.
There are few really indigenous species of animals ; rats and
flying foxes being the only mammals. As to the others now
found here, the names by which they are known point to their
European origin; thus we have seepi (sheep), goti (goat), collie
(dog), pussi (cat), etc. Even the hogs and fowls which run wild
in the jungles came originally from the Friendly Islands, where
they were introduced by the early navigators.
Living in such a little world as this, the Fijians were of neces-
sity much in advance of the races inhabiting the neighboring
Pacific islands. The struggle for securing and holding this fair
domain must of itself have led to its possession by a superior
race. We find evidences of this superiority not only in the splen-
did physical development of the Fijians, but also in their rela-
tively advanced religious notions and in their rather elaborate
system of mythology. One traveler has likened this people, in
some respects, to the primitive Greeks. If we compare the petty
maritime enterprises celebrated in Fijian song and story with
those recorded by the early Greek poets, we may imagine the dif-
ference to be in some measure due to the difference in character
of the two archipelagoes which were their respective scenes of
action. Upon taking the trouble to translate certain books of
Homer into Fijian it was found that their recital was listened to
by a company of these untutored savages with the most appreci-
ative attention. This fact certainly speaks well for the mental
quality of the race. The one foul blot upon the character of the
Fijians was their cannibalism ; but, in view of the readiness with
which they have abandoned this practice, now that animal food
can be easily obtained, we must hold Nature responsible, not only
for this curse, but also for the many other barbarities attend-
ing it.
The national character of Fiji finds its best expression in the
songs once common among the natives, but now, under Christian
influences, almost obsolete.. These songs or mekkes, as they are
called, generally recount the story of some ancient hero, of some
military campaign or naval expedition, or perhaps of a peaceful
fishing excursion. They are generally sung of evenings by the
men only, who assemble for the purpose in one of their long, low
huts. Here they sit in solemn state on mats laid upon the ground,
the only light being that of a smoky fire in one end. According
