232 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to Major Abercrombie, an eyewitness of the ceremony, one man
begins the chant alone ; a second soon joins liim, then a few more,
till finally all present have taken it up, accompanying the wild
music by much pantomime and earnest gesticulation. The time
is beaten upon a wooden drum by one of their number, and is
occasionally accentuated by a general clapping of the hands.
After a certain climax has been reached, the music stops quite
abruptly with one loud clap.
Yangona, the national beverage, is then served. This liquor
is brewed with much formality, accompanied by low chanting.
The great wooden bowl having been brought into the center of
the room, the operator in charge sits down cross-legged before it.
The yangona root is grated (it was formerly chewed by young
men selected for the purpose) and deposited in the bowl, the in-
side of which has, from long use, become covered with a beautiful
purple enamel. The requisite number of cocoanut shells of water
are measured out and poured over the grated root, the whole
being stirred to the music of a solemn chant. The floating par-
ticles of the grated root are collected and removed by means of a
net of hibiscus fibers skillfully handled by the person in charge of
the brew. The liquor thus prepared is handed round in cups of
cocoanut shell, the chief being the first to drink. Taking the
cup between his two palms, he slowly swallows its contents with-
out removing it from his lips, while the onlookers join in a meas-
ured clapping of the hands. When the cup is finally thrown
down with a spinning motion, to show that it is empty, all unite
in the chorus, "-4 matlia, a matlia" it is finished. The others
now drink in a certain order of precedence. The liquor is of a
dirty yellow color and has a bitter, aromatic taste, not altogether
disagreeable. Used in moderation, it acts as a stimulant, but if
indulged in too freely a temporary paralysis of the lower extrem-
ities follows, and the victim, while perfectly rational, reels and
staggers as if drunk.
It is at these meetings around the yangona bowl that the nu-
merous legends and fables of which the Fijians were passionately
fond have been handed down in song from generation to genera-
tion. As a specimen of these mythical tales we give one which
has been rescued from oblivion by the Rev. Thomas Williams
and recorded by Mrs. C. F. Gordon Gumming in her At Home in
Fiji. It tells of a gigantic bird called " Duck of the Rock." This
monster carried off Tutu Wathi Wathi, the beautiful wife of the
god Okovo and sister of Rokoua. The two gods gave chase in a
large canoe, and as they voyaged came to an island inhabited by
beautiful goddesses. Here the brother wished to remain, but, the
husband protesting, they sailed on to the Yasawas, the most west-
erly isles of the group. Here was the cavern in which dwelt the
