AMONG THE CANNIBAL ISLANDS. 233
great bird, but it was empty, and tliey found only one little finger
of the hapless Tutu Wathi Wathi. The angry gods now swore to
avenge her death, when presently they saw the monster approach-
ing, his great wings darkening the sea like the shadow of a storm
cloud. In his beak he carried five large turtles and in his talons
ten porpoises. These he deposited upon the rocks and proceeded
to devour, while Okovo prayed the other gods to help him by
sending a storm of wind. The prayer was answered, and a sudden
gust ruffled the feathers of the monster, so that Rokoua was able
to force a spear through an unprotected spot into his vitals. Hav-
ing thus accomplished their just revenge, they took one of the
smallest feathers for a new sail, and then cast the dead body into the
sea, causing such a surge as to " flood the foundations of the sky.^'
It is to be regretted that these legends have not been more
carefully collected by the earlier settlers in Fiji. Even the few of
them which have been preserved exhibit a truly interesting na-
tional character. But this national character has been lost since
the advent of the European. The Fijian of to-day does not like
to be reminded in any way of the old days when cannibalism was
in vogue. He is exceedingly sensitive to the sneer of the white
man. While the race has been partially rescued from barbarism,
it has lost its old vigor and spirit. The native population has of
late years been decreasing at an alarming rate. An epidemic of
measles, heedlessly introduced in 1875, carried off fifty thoueand
souls, about one third of the whole population of the islands.
Fiji is but the vestige of a former continent, which has gone down
beneath the steadily encroaching sea. The Fijians are fast be-
coming, before the resistless encroachments of the European, only
the vestige of a former race.
We have here now a well-ordered British colony. Sugar, cot-
ton, wool, tobacco, bananas, cocoanuts, and other agricultural
products are exported in great quantities. The extensive planta-
tions are worked largely by laborers introduced from India and
the neighboring Pacific islands. But as a colony Fiji does not
prosper. Better times are looked for when the Nicaragua Canal
shall have become a reality, as these islands lie upon the great
commercial route which will then be established between Eng-
land and Australia.
Enuivierating the applications that have been or may be made of
zoology to the arts and industries, Dr. William A. Hardman showed, ia the
British Association, that biological principles dominate medicine and sur-
gery ; bacteriology and brewing depend on the study of microscopic organ-
isms; economic entomology is of value in agriculture; and zoology has a
practical application to the fishing industry.
