MIRACLES IN FRENCH CANADA. 237
expedient of causing a fog to hide the vessel of her friends. She
rendered barren women fruitful, and once or twice cured the
dumb ; by her efforts attempts to plant Jansenism in the colony-
were frustrated ; she also brought to naught the designs of stray
Huguenots. At the siege of Quebec Wolfe dispatched an expe-
dition to harry the river parishes. " Wherever resistance was
offered," says Parkman, " farmhouses and villages were laid in
ashes, though churches were generally spared." The church at
Beauprd was not spared by the troops ; it was set on fire three
times, but each time Saint Anne extinguished the flames, and
some of the Highlanders confessed the miracle. When the north
shore down to Cap Tourmente was blazing, nearly all the farm-
houses in which she was specially venerated escaped.
But since 1860 or 1865, when the rush of poj)ulation to the
New England factories set in and French Canada began to receive
at second hand the new ideas absorbed by the emigrants, the saint
has been comparatively listless. She cures headache and dys-
pepsia, converts Protestants with Catholic wives, finds employ-
ment for clients, protects them while traveling, restores lost ob-
jects, procures young women admission to convents, and endows
those who come to her in a proper spirit with grace and strength
to quit evil practices. Now and then we hear of a hysterical girl
being cured on the spot, or of an epileptic finding relief, but as a
matter of fact the character of the miracles has deteriorated
since faith in them has been shaken by New England influences.
Hence the rather bitter remark, attributed to Mgr. B^gin, that if
the French Canadians are supplanting the Puritan stock, Puri-
tanism is having its revenge in French Canada.
Formerly images of Saint Anne were carried in procession
through a parish to bring on rain or to stop rain, a ceremony that
reminded one of the old Roman religion and the transportation of
Bacchus, Ceres, and Dea Dia through the fields and vineyards by
white-clad youths, followed by the lustral water and the full in-
cense box. The practice is falling into desuetude; the habitant,
like the rest of us, is beginning to be satisfied with the weather
as it comes, and to have confidence in the predictions of the
meteorological office. A bad crop is still attributed to the
backsliding of the farmers or to the nonpayment of tithes. In
French Canada the tithe, collectable by law and a first lien on the
soil, is every twenty-sixth bushel of cereals. Of late, since the
opening of the western prairies, the habitants have dropped cereal
growing and taken to raising hay for the United States market.
In this manner the cures have been cheated out of tithes, and some
in whom the sense of reverence must have been dim pointed to the
McKinley bill, which levied a duty of four dollars per ton, as an
expression of the divine wrath.
