238 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Normans and Bretons who colonized New France were
governed to the end of their nails, as they used to say, from the
mother country. The local self-government of the American
colonies, the town meeting and its ramifications, were unknown ;
they were not allowed to hold meetings nor even to tax themselves
for improvements without the royal permission. There were no
common schools ; the Recollets, or begging friars, taught the
A B C as they wandered from parish to parish, but only where
they found lodging for the night. As late as 1835 an act of the
legislature was passed permitting school trustees to sign their
reports with a mark. The feu-follet, or Will o' the wisp, was either
an unshriven soul or Satan himself ; sorciers were witches and
imps who held their sabbaths on the Isle of Orleans ; the cliasse-
galerie, a huntsman with a pack of dogs, appeared on the eve of a
storm ; but the most formidable apparition was the were- wolf, or
loup-garoii, which was seen as late as 17G7 in the county of
Kamouraska, seeking whom it might devour. None of these
ugly visitors could cross a stream which bore a saint's name. If
encountered in the woods, the feu follet could generally be dodged
by sticking a needle in the earth or holding out a half-open knife
after first making the sign of the cross ; but the only safeguards
against the others short of making a race for the St. Lawrence or
the St. Something-else was for the traveler to carry a bottle of
holy water, Le Formulaire, a prayer-book originally got up for
the Ursuline nuns, or the petit Albert, which contained the forms
for exorcising evil spirits.
The Jesuits have described the Arcadian simplicity of life and
manners and the extraordinary piety of the early settlers, kept
fervid both by their ministrations and by the constant Indian at-
tacks. Every church had its own saint and relic, not necessarily
of that particular saint, and its own miracles. Laval's successor
presented the parish of Saint Paul in the Isle of Orleans with an
arm bone of the great apostle of the Gentiles. A few years after-
ward the parish changed its name to Saint Laurent, and the ad-
joining parish of Saint Peter thereupon called itself Saint Peter
and Saint Paul. The cures agreed to exchange relics, but the
Saint Laurent people refused to be bound by that arrangement,
and one night entered the church of Saint Pierre, carried off their
old relic, and left the other, which they deemed an inferior one.
Miracles beyond number were reported and passed into popular
belief without being vouched for by ecclesiastical authority, such
as missionaries using their cloaks as rafts to cross lakes and rivers,
checking bush fires by drawing a line on the ground, being di-
rected when they had lost their way and providentially supplied
with food.
The Acadians had miracles in plenty. In the introduction
