MIRACLES IN FRENCH CANADA. 239
to A Legend of Montrose, Sir Walter Scott speaks of the por-
tents which announced the Highland clearings the notes of
the night wind howling down the pass of Balachra modeled to
the tune of We Return no More, the song with which High-
landers usually bade farewell to their native land ; " the uncouth
cries of the Southland shepherds and the barking of their dogs in
the midst of the hills long before their actual arrival." I have
been told at St. Pierre-Miquelon that the Acadians who fled to
those French islands from the country of Evangeline were quite
sure they had been forewarned of what was in store by the ap-
pearance of British armies in the sky, by dirgelike sounds from
the ocean, and the wailing of souls in purgatory heard during
Mass for a year before the calamity. In 1811-12 Bishop Plessis
visited Prince Edward Island, and in the account of his journey,
published long afterward,* we are told that mysterious voices
were heard in the Acadian churches, but not in the churches fre-
quented by the Roman Catholics of Highland Scotch extraction.
There was a groaning or sighing voice like that of a person in dis-
tress, and a singing voice like that of a woman or a child. On the
mainland of New Brunswick these voices followed the Acadians
to the lumber shanties, and were heard on Sundays when they
gathered for prayer. In the churches the voices were loudest
during the recitation of the litany of the Holy Name of Jesus.
The good bishop asks : " What are these voices ? Whence come
they, and for what reason do they make themselves heard ? " He
comes to the philosophical conclusion that " as they have done no
one any harm it matters little whether they cease or keep on."
At the grand derangement, as they call their deportation, the
Acadians received at least one mark of favor from the Virgin
Mary. Abb(^ Ferland tells the story in his La Gaspesie. Two
hundred and fifty of them on board a vessel bound from Port
Royal to the Carolinas overpowered the crew during a storm,
fastened a scapular to the rudder, and invited the Virgin to take
charge ; she did so, and in a few hours they made land at Riviere
Saint- Jean. The Virgin helped the French at the battle of Ticon-
deroga, appearing in white on the breastworks as the enemy came
up for each fresh attack. She did not appear on the Plains of
Abraham, nor during Montgomery's invasion ; in the latter cam-
paign, indeed, the mass of the French Canadians would probably
have been glad if she had helped the Bostonnais.
There were legends among the French Canadians of revela-
tions from heaven having been vouchsafed to the Indians. Mgr.
de S. Valier traveled through the Gulf region in 1685-87 in the
capacity of grand-vicaire to Laval, and published a report at
* Le Foyer Canadien, 1865.
