2+0 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Paris in 1688, reprinted at Quebec in 1857. He speaks of the Cru-
ciantaux Indians, who " have a particular respect for the cross,"
which they wore on their persons, planted over their graves, and
attached to their canoes. An Indian " one hundred or one hun-
dred and twenty years old " related that he had witnessed the
arrival of the first ship that came from Europe to that part of the
country. But the use of the cross among the Indians antedated
that event and had not been introduced by outsiders. Once upon
a time, during a famine, when the spirits had been appealed to in
vain by the medicine men, an old savage saw in a dream a yonng
man who promised the band an early deliverance by virtue of the
cross, and showed him three crosses one to protect them from
visitations, another to serve them in their councils, the third to
guard them in their journeys. When the old man woke he whit-
tled three crosses just like them, and this is how the cult began.
The incantations and jongleries of medicine men were sometimes
blamed by the early white settlers for causing a failure of the
crops. In these modern days the blasphemy of the habitant is
blamed, though as a rule he seldom blasphemes except when
plowing with fractious oxen. In a book (Une Mine, etc.) pub-
lished in 1880 a worthy Oblat father asks, " Why these bush
fires, droughts, wet seasons, frosts, hailstorms, worms, and flies
that rnin your crops ? " and goes on to ascribe them to the " tor-
rent of bad language that deluges your fields."
When Father Labrosse, a famous Gulf missionary, died at
Tadousac, the bells of all the churches were tolled by angels. The
crucifix outrage is among the relics of the Hotel-Dieu ; it was used
by a soldier in divinations by which he undertook to find lost
money. A fete was established by way of public atonement, and
miracles have since been performed with it. Here, as elsewhere,
the corruption of names has given rise to legends of the miracu-
lous and the uncanny. Thus Cap d'Espoir, Cape of Hope, has
been twisted by English sailors into Cape Despair; the French
have accepted the corruption and made it Cap D^sespoir. Then
to account for the name, tradition says one of the vessels of Sir
Hovenden Walker's expedition against Quebec was cast away at
the spot, and the remains of a wreck are still shown and known
as the naufrage anglais. Till a few years ago the fishermen at
Cap Ddsespoir used to be warned of storms by the apparition of
this English frigate, with her terror-stricken officers and men
gazing landward and the captain apparently upbraiding the pilot.
The fishermen of the Gulf of St. Lawrence are as superstitious as
fishermen elsewhere. They hear the lamentations of lost souls
like the braillard off Rivifere de la Madeleine and see supernatural
lights like the feu des Roussis at Paspebiac. The haddock, le
poisson de Saint-Pierre, was the first fish caught at the miracu-
