MIRACLES IN FRENCH CANADA, 241
lous dranglit in Lake Gennesaret, and the finger marks of the apos-
tle are on its back. Nevertheless it is not a lucky fish, possibly
because " their net brake " and they " filled both the ships so that
they began to sink." The French-Canadian fisherman and the
fisherman from old France work side by side on the Banks of
Newfoundland. There is a marked dijfference in their accent and
intonation as well as in their physical appearance, three hundred
years of existence in the New World having made the French
Canadian swarthier and leaner than the man from Saint Malo.
On the rocks of Cap h, I'Aigle at St. Pierre-Miquelon there is a
white statue of the Virgin, and as his vessel passes it the French
Canadian is careful to salute the "old mother," but the fisherman
from France ignores her. While the latter sings modern songs
from the cafes of Paris, the former sticks to the songs his ances-
tors brought from France Malbrough, Dans les prisons de Nantes,
Sur le pont d'Avignon, Par derri^r' chez ma tante. En roulant ma
boule, etc. Both believe that a sorcier can find the best fishing
ground on the Banks, that a dog on board brings good luck, that
it is bad luck to whistle, and so on. At home the French-Cana-
dian fisherman occasionally sees the Wandering Jew striding
along the beach in the direction of Labrador, which, by the way,
was the heritage of Cain. To meet him face to face brings good
luck if you happen to be returning from vespers, but not other-
wise. There is an old ballad about him in which, " near the town
of Bruxell's in Brabant," he accompanies two honest fellows into
a tavern and over a pot de Mere fraiche describes the events at
Jerusalem that led to his being banished " to everywhere and no-
where without end " :
** Sur le mont du Calvaire
Jesus portait sa croix ;
II ine dit, debonnaire,
Passant devant chez moi :
Veux-toi bien, mon ami,
Que je repose ici ? ''
But the Wandering Jew Isaac Laquedemme by name, and by
trade a shoemaker was in bad humor that day, and replied sans
raison :
" Otes-toi, crimiuelle,
De devant ma maison ;
Avance et marche done
Car tu me fais affront ! "
Then came the terrible sentence :
" Jesus, la bonte meme,
Me dit en soupirant:
VOL. XLvm. 17
