242 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
' Tu marcheras toi-meme
Pendant plus de mille ans ;
Le dernier jugemeut
Finira ton tourment ! ' "
He has been tramping ever since, wearing his shoemaker's
apron, and always with five sous, never more or less, in his pocket,
glad to drink a glass of wine with any honest bourgeois he meets,
hut much tormented in soul when he halts for that purpose. The
ballad, as sung in French Canada, is given in full in Ernest
Gagnon's collection.
Among the miracles recorded by ecclesiastics, the most strik-
ing was the defeat of the English expedition against Quebec in
1690 by the Virgin Mary, to whom a church, still standing in
Lower Town Notre Dame des Yictoires was forthwith dedicated.
Miraculous cures were wrought by the relics of the Jesuit Brebeuf,
murdered in the country of the Hurons near Penetanguishene,
and through invoking the Jesuit Le Jeune. These are about the
only miracles oiScially credited to the Jesuits ; they bear no com-
parison with those ascribed to the Jesuit Anchieta in Brazil ; still
less with those of St. Francis Xavier and the missionary thauma-
turgists of his day. The performance of miracles by the Cana-
dian Jesuits may possibly have been hindered by the presence of
heretic traders from the neighboring English and Dutch colo-
nies; it was cynically suggested at the time that unless they
could banish the smallpox, always raging among the Indians
and frequently attacking the settlements, it was useless to work
minor wonders as a means of impressing either red men or white.
The nuns were more successful. Marie de ITncarnation and
the Mfere de Saint- Augustin possessed the spiritual charismata of
the Christian women of whom Tertullian wrote : " There is at this
day among us a sister who has the gift of revelations, which she
receives in church amid the solemnities of the Lord's day by
ecstasy of the spirit; she converses with angels and sometimes
also with the Lord, and she both hears and sees mysteries." The
astounding visions of these two Quebec nuns are described at
length by a recent biographer, Abbd Casgrain. Both were fore-
warned of the earthquake of 1663, when, as the Relations say,
rivers and lakes changed their beds, mountains were swallowed,
and forests hurled in the air, the trees falling on end with the
roots upward ; the warning was conveyed by the appearance of
demons, which gathered over Quebec and were restrained for a
time, but only for a time, by a majestic youth of whom they
stood in awe. The statue of Notre Dame de Toute-Grace, at
the Hotel-Dieu Convent, was wonderfully gifted. The Mfere du
Saint-Esprit, of that house, foretold its destruction by fire. In
1810 a Protestant woman visited it at Christmas and prayed
