MIRACLES IN FRENCH CANADA. 243
before the manger. She bore a child, which was the image
of VEnfant Jesits, and became a nun of extraordinary piety,
on whom the Virgin lavished favors. Marguerite Bourgeois,
founder of the Congregation of Our Lady at Montreal, is now
undergoing the process of canonization ; numerous miracles were
worked by her before and after her death. Probably, in modern
opinion, the most splendid miracle of all was the courage dis-
played by these well-born women in crossing the ocean and
spending their lives amid the rigors of a semiarctic climate,
Indian alarms, sieges, pestilence, and all the privations and hard-
ships of a new colony for the glory of God.
When the Island of Montreal was wanted by the Sulpicians,
a lay agent, apparently under Jesuit influence, had a vision in
which the owner was guaranteed heaven without purgatory.
The property, which has made the Sulpicians one of the richest
orders in America, was immediately transferred. This, I believe,
is the only instance of note in which the supernatural was in-
voked for a doubtful purpose. All the other visions and miracles
can be accounted for without the hypothesis of conscious deceit.
It was essentially a time when, as Dean Milman wrote of another
age, "the Christian lived in a supernatural world; the notion of
the divine power the perpetual interference of the Deity, the
agency of the countless invisible beings which hovered over
mankind was so strongly impressed upon the belief that every
extraordinary and almost every ordinary incident became a mir-
acle ; . . . a mythic period was thus gradually formed in which
reality melted into fable, and invention unconsciously trespassed
on the province of history." This is kinder than Gibbon's ver-
dict : " If the eyes of the spectators have sometimes been deceived
by fraud, the understanding of the readers has much more fre-
quently been insulted by fiction."
The seigniorial tenure, a mitigated feudalism based upon the
Custom of Paris (1510), was abolished by the Canadian Parliament
in 1854. It was then, a scoffing Parisian said, that the habitant of
French Canada discovered that Louis XVI was dead. When he
began to migrate to New England he learned other things that are
slowly undermining his cradle beliefs, and we may say without a
scoff that it will not be long till Good Saint Anne is dead.
Remarking on some of the results achieved by the Challenger Expedi-
tion in the antarctic seas, Dr. Murray says that the amount of animal life
found in the antarctic region south of 40 is very much more abundant
than in any other part of the world. One of the great secrets of oceanic
circulation may possibly be found by investigation of those regions. Cer-
tainly one of the greatest pieces of scientific and oceanographic work yet to
be done on the surface of the globe awaits efforts in these regions.
