24+ THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
HAS IMMIGRATION INCREASED POPULATION?
By SYDNEY G. FISHER.
THE immigration which formed the basis of our colonial pop-
ulation was very slight. The men who fought the Revolution
and created the United States were almost exclusively native.
The population of New England, as is well known, was produced
out of an immigration of not much over 20,000, all of whom ar-
rived before the year 1640. From 1640 until about 1820, a period
of nearly two hundred years, the growth of New England was by
the childbearing of the original and native stock. There was no
immigration worth mentioning; but, on the contrary, an overflow
into neighboring colonies. New York and the West. Franklin,
writing in 1751, when the population of all the colonies was about
a million, said that the immigration which had produced this
number was generally believed to have been less than 80,000.*
Modern immigration set in some time in the beginning of the
present century, and had grown to noticeable proportions about
1820, when the national Government decided to take statistics of
it. By 1830 all observers agree that the foreigners had begun to
have a decided influence and effect, and that a change could be
distinctly seen. By 1840 the Native American or Know-Nothing
movement had begun ; in 1850 it had become a distinct political
party ; and in 1856 had a candidate for the presidency.
One of the strongest arguments used against the Know-Noth-
ings was that immigration would greatly increase the population,
and in that way the wealth and strength of the country. The rate
of increase by births among the colonists had been remarkably
rapid and had astonished the people of Europe. Franklin was
among the first to call the attention of learned men to this phe-
nomenon. In some parts of the country the people, without the
aid of immigration, doubled themselves in twenty-five or twenty-
seven years ; and there were traditions of particular localities in
which the doubling had taken place within less than twenty
years. No record of a like increase over such an extended terri-
tory could be found in the history of the civilized world.
For the fifty years that followed the Revolution, when immi-
gration was at a minimum, this natural increase was greater than
ever. The whole population in that time doubled itself about
every twenty-three years. It was therefore very natural for the
people who believed in the immigration experiment to suppose
that if to this increase in every decade were added a couple of mil-
lion immigrants, who would presumably have children in the same
* Franklin's Works (Sparks's edition), vol. ii, p. 319.
