HAS IMMIGRATION INCREASED POPULATION? 247
which contained the Revolution. The falling continues, with one
or two slight revivals, as we follow the column, until in the decade
1880 to 1890 it has reached the very low figure of 24"53 per cent
more than four per cent lower than during the Revolution.
It is to be observed that the first serious fall begins after the
year 1830, the point which all observers have fixed upon as the
time when the effects of immigration began to be palpably felt.
If we look at the number of foreigners for the year 1830, we
find them to have been 315,830 almost as many as there had been
in the three previous decades. In the next decade they more than
double, and in the next they almost treble, with the rate of native
increase steadily declining.
It is also rather significant that the first break and decline of
the native rate occurs after the year 1820, when immigration had
begun to attract so much attention that the Government decided
to take statistics of it.
These coincidences of the decline of the native increase with
the increase of immigration are so exact that they can hardly
have been accidental. There is, to say the least, a strong suspicion
of cause and effect. And if it should be asked what is the exact
nature of that relation of cause and effect, the question may be
concisely answered in the words of General Francis Walker,
superintendent of the tenth census and now President of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology :
" The access of foreigners, at the time and under the circum-
stances, constituted a shock to the principle of population among
the native element. That principle is always acutely sensitive
alike to sentimental and to economic conditions. And it is to be
noted, in passing, that not only did the decline in the native ele-
ment, as a whole, take place in singular correspondence with the
excess of foreign arrivals, but it occurred chiefly in just those
regions to which the newcomers most freely resorted."
That the arrival of the foreigners was a shock to the natives is
very clearly shown in the formation of the Native American or
Know-Nothing party, and the riots and violence which followed
for a period of twenty years. The foreigners came to work for
lower wages than the native and drove the native from his place.
For a hundred years the native had been accustomed to a standard
of living which was remarkably high. This was particularly true
of the New England and Middle States, where all classes had every
incentive in their surroundings to produce large families. They
felt that they owned their country, and were proud of it. They
were the creators of their own destinies and the architects of their
own fortunes. They built up homes and families. They were
sure there would always be enough for all, and that their children
would have to enjoy as good, if not better, conditions.
