2 50 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The English, it will be observed, never succeeded in doubling
themselves in any hundred years until 1780 to 1880, when they
almost quadrupled.
Civilization, then, does not appear to be a very serious hin-
drance to rapidity of growth ; and the reason is evident. As com-
pared with barbarism, it produces a larger food supply, greater
variety of it, better houses, better sanitary arrangements, better
health, longer life, and stronger reasons for wanting to live and
wanting to enable others to live. The people of the middle ages
lacked skill in producing the comforts and necessaries of life, their
sanitary arrangements were shocking and their lives despondent.
They were visited with plagues and epidemics which have not
now been known for four hundred years. Their minds were
clouded with dreadful delusions, superstitions, and terrors which
produced the "dance of death ^' and the continual slaughter of
witches. A large proportion of their children died, and even
adult life was short.
Long living and many who live long is as important an ele-
ment in the increase of population as numerous births. All the
children born in the United States in the year 1891, who die before
they are eight years old, will not increase the population either in
numbers or effective strength so much as one man born in that
year who lives to be thirty. The man, independently of his greater
usefulness, will be counted as an inhabitant in three censuses ;
the children will be counted in none.
Paupers, savages, and other people of low life are often sup-
posed to multiply very fast because they seem to be so reckless in
the number of children that are born to them. But the same
shiftlessness which brings the children into the world surrounds
them with conditions that destroy them. Negroes are supposed
to be very prolific; but the death-rate among them in cities is
almost double the death-rate among whites ; and the death-rate
among negro children is more than double the death-rate among
white children. The woman of the slums, who was recently re-
ported to have said that she ought to know something about the
nurture of children because she had buried fourteen of her own,
was doubtless a person of excellent intentions ; but she has not
done so well for the republic as some less boastful mother who
has raised one son to maturity.
It is often thoughtlessly asserted that modern city life de-
creases population. But, as compared with ancient city life, it
very much increases it. Previous to the year 1790, in all large
cities, the death-rate always exceeded the birth-rate. In London
the death-rate was often double the birth-rate. Immigration from
the rural districts and not their own power of reproduction kept
these cities from decay. Our modern cities contain certain dis-
