PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. n
city of Providence, R. L, was $379,000. In 1892 it was $2,333,000.
In the former year tlie taxable real and personal estate was valued
at $61,000,000, while for the year 1892 the valuation was $155,000,-
000. Thus the increase in the amount of taxes collected within
the thirty years was five hundred and fifteen per cent, while in
the amount of assessable property the gain was only one hundred
and fifty-four per cent. The rate of tax increased during the
same period from $6.50 per $1,000 to $15.
Among the leading nations of the world the comparative bur-
den of exactions by Government is heaviest in Russia, Italy, and
France. In Russia the present governmental exactions under
the name of taxes from the agricultural peasant are reported to
be about forty-five per cent of the value of his annual product or
earnings. In Italy the State exaction is believed to absorb from
one third to one half of the value of its agricultural product. The
present aggregate of annual taxation in France is undoubtedly
the greatest to which any country in modern times has been sub-
jected ; and including all taxes national and local is estimated
as in excess of $1,400,000,000, or about one fourth of the annual
income of its people. And yet it is claimed that the prosperity of
the nation is increasing. There can, however, be no doubt that
the financial strain caused by such great and continuous demands
on the income of the French people is beginning to be severely
felt ; and in a recent budget discussion in the Senate of the re-
public, M. Loubet, chairman of its financial committee, insisted
that taxation had reached its utmost endurable limit.*
As far back as 1879 the taxation imposed by Spain on her island
of Cuba was reported to have made the latter the most heavily
taxed country in the world ; the rate on its free population being
then estimated as equal to $34.50 per capita.
The cost of the Government of Great Britain for 1893-94 de-
frayed by what are termed imperial taxes mainly customs and
inland revenue, and deducting all items of compensating rev-
enue as receipts from crown lands, etc. was 75,427,000. The
* In a recent article in the lEconomiste Fran9ais, M. Leroy-Beaulieu presents Bome facts
which enable foreigners to form an opinion of the financial management of France under its
present democratic form of government. There is at present, according to this well-recog-
nized authority, an actual annual deficit of between three and four hundred million francs.
The floating debt, " official or concealed," has taken enormous proportions, and is met by a
variety of expedients, and mostly by secret loans (which are always costly), because the
Government does not dare contract a large public loan, the only regular and least expensive
means of extrication from financial embarrassments. Expenses are piling up and nobody
takes any thought of repressing them. In short, according to M. BeauUeu, there is under
the present Government, notwithstanding " constant and vain buzzing on the subject of
democratic reforms, the adhesion of a mollusc to the wretchedest routine and a downright
hatred of every kind of improvement."
