HAS IMMIGRATION IN' CREASED POPULATION? 251
tricts that are called slums. But tlie old cities were all slums.
The great increase of modern city life is due not to the degeneracy
of the race, as is often foolishly supposed, but to improved sanitary
conditions and improved health. The modern city grows by its
own productive force as well as by immigration and has ceased to
be a death trap for the people.
Rapid increase of population is due to cleanliness, thrift, intel-
ligence, prosperity, contentment, and happiness, because these
things preserve and lengthen life. As a rule, civilized people are
apt to be blessed in these particulars even when their birth-rate
is somewhat low. But it is not true, as is often supposed, that the
more civilized have necessarily a low birth-rate. Ireland and
Greece are countries of an inferior order of civilization, and their
birth-rates are respectively 277 and 24 per thousand inhabit-
ants ; while the birth-rate of England is 33 "3 per thousand, and of
Holland 34-8.
But we must not rest the question on mere generalizations.
Civilization includes many things and is a broad term. Increase
of population is accomplished by different causes, and not in every
instance by the same cause. Each instance should be considered
in all its surroundings before any general principles are applied.
Mere sentiment, opinions, and ideas often affect the growth of
population as much as the price of corn and meat. The failure of
the French to increase rapidly is generally believed to be caused
by an almost morbid desire on the part of French parents to
start their sons in life with a fortune and give their daughters a
dowry on their marriage. The size of these portions becomes a
matter of pride, and great importance is attached to them even
among the middle classes. The fewer the children the larger the
portions. This condition is generally believed by modern French
statesmen to have been brought about by the law of 1793 which
restricted the freedom of leaving property by will and compelled
parents to divide their estates evenly among their children.
On the other hand, the English feeling is just the reverse of this.
The Saxon race has always been remarkable for its love of facing
life single-handed, and battling with the chances of the world.
English parents of all classes have seldom any hesitation, and
often a pride, in bringing up more children than their fortune will
enable to live with ease. The thought that the eldest child will
have all their money and the rest have to begin life anew, or
that all will have to make their own way in the colonies, which
would fill a French family with horror, is rather pleasant to Eng-
lish parents.
Any one who will read the history of the Know-Nothing move-
ment in pamphlets, speeches, and deeds of that time can hardly
fail to be convinced that hundreds of thousands of native Amer-
