SKETCH OF DAVID DALE OWEN. 259
SKETCH OF DAVID DALE OWEN.
DAVID DALE OWEN was born at Braxfield House, near
New Lanark, Scotland, June 24, 1807. He was the fourth
son and sixth child in a family of eight children. All but the
first born, a son, lived to adult age. His father, Robert Owen,
the celebrated philanthropist, was a native of North Wales.
Robert Owen, after working in the drapery business in Lon-
don and elsewhere, entered into partnership with a mechanic, at
eighteen years of age, in the manufacture of cotton-spinning ma-
chines. A year later he took a position as superintendent of a
mill employing five hundred hands, and at twenty-two years of
age he became a partner in an old-established spinning concern
of Manchester. Having become attached to Miss Anne Caroline,
the eldest daughter of David Dale, proprietor of large mills at New
Lanark, near Glasgow, he arranged with his partners to buy the
works of the father, and soon after obtained for himself the hand
of the daughter. They were married in 1797. Undertaking the
management of the works ("government" he called it), he steadily
improved the condition of the factory hands, which had been
there as elsewhere bad to a degree now almost incredible. Some
of his measures were opposed by his partners, and led to several
dissolutions of partnership through which he retained the man-
agement, but he was forced to retire in 1829 when fifty-eight years
of age. In spite of what he spent for the workers, Owen always
made the business pay well. For several years beginning with
1815, he worked for the passage of Acts of Parliament beneficial
to factory operatives. Becoming convinced that social reform
could be best secured through communism, he bought from the
Harmony Society a tract of thirty thousand acres, and the build-
ings of their settlement at New Harmony, Ind. The Harmony
Society was prosperous but wished to change its location. Com-
ing to America in the spring of 1825, he organized a community of
about nine hundred persons on a provisional plan. He returned to
Scotland to look after his business, leaving his two oldest sons
at New Harmony.
William Maclure, of Philadelphia, a man of means and de-
voted to philanthropy and the advancement of science, took part
in founding the community. He heard of Owen's scheme on re-
turning to the United States after an attempt to found an agri-
cultural labor school in Spain, and believed that it would afford
favorable conditions for carrying out his cherished idea of an
educational institute founded on rational principles. He accord-
ingly bought a large tract of land in New Harmony and vicinity,
and removed thither his library and collection of minerals, which
