26o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
were extensive, and his valuable scientific apparatus. He induced
Gerard Troost, C. A. Lesueur, and Thomas Say, also Joseph Neef,
the Pestalozzian, to come into the community with him, to act as in-
structors in the institution proposed. When the society was divided
into a manufacturing and educational, and an agricultural branch,
Maclure became the leading spirit in the educational division.
Owen visited New Harmony a second time in the winter of
1825-'26. His third visit was made in the spring of 1828, and by
that time so many troubles had arisen that the community was dis-
banded. The failure of the undertaking was due to the one great
cause that makes all communistic enterprises impracticable in the
present age the imperfections of human nature. In the same
year Mr. Owen went to Mexico, on the invitation of the Govern-
ment, to put his ideas into practice there, but effected nothing be-
cause the Government insisted that the state religion of the pro-
posed community should be Roman Catholic. Some experiments
were afterward tried by him in Great Britain, and he continued
to advocate his views with voice and pen until his death, in 1858.
His followers received the name of " Owenites." He published a
considerable number of writings, including an autobiography.
David Dale Owen's early education, which was received from
a private tutor, included the English branches, the rudiments of
Latin, and a course in architectural drawing. He was also trained
in the use of carpenter's tools in the mechanical department con-
nected with his father's mills. He was for a time a pupil in the
grammar school, or academy, at New Lanark. His father, while
traveling on the continent of Europe, had visited the celebrated
educational institution of Emanuel von Fellenberg, at Hofwyl,
Switzerland, and was so much pleased with the system pursued in
it neither moral, physical, nor intellectual development being
neglected that he sent there first his two oldest sons Robert
Dale and William for a three years' course, and after their return
sent David and his younger brother Richard, in 1824, also for
three years. The studies of the more advanced classes were partly
elective, and David Dale and his brother chose chemistry, draw-
ing, and modern languages in addition to the prescribed mathe-
matical and literary course.
David Dale and Richard returned to Scotland in September,
1826, the former being then nineteen years old. They entered the
classes in physics and chemistry conducted by Dr. Andrew Ure,
author of the Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines, at
Glasgow, where their mother then resided. Their father was
absent at New Harmony. For that place the two younger sons
set out in November, 1827, going by a ship from Liverpool to New
Orleans, thence up the Mississippi by steamer, reaching the settle-
ment on the Wabash early in January, 1828.
