SKETCH OF DAVID DALE OWEN. 261
During the next tliree years they kept up and increased their
knowledge of chemistry by repeating the experiments of Dr. Ure's
course. Desiring to extend his knowledge of chemistry and geol-
ogy, David Dale Owen in 1831 returned to Great Britain. He
had as a companion Henry D. Rogers, and they both lived at the
house of Owen's father in London while attending the lectures of
Dr. Turner at the London University.
After about a year abroad Owen came back to the United
States. Soon after his return he was stricken with Asiatic chol-
era, which was epidemic in this country in the summer and fall of
1832, but was fortunate enough to survive the attack. Wishing
to increase his knowledge of anatomy and physiology as an aid in
the study of paleontology, he entered the Ohio Medical College,
in Cincinnati, and was graduated in the spring of 1836. He de-
voted the summer following his graduation to gaining practical
experience in field geology. To this end he accompanied at his
own expense Dr. Gerard Troost, who was then engaged on the
State Survey of Tennessee.
Dr. Owen married, March 23, 1837, Caroline C. Neef, the third
daughter of that pioneer of Pestalozzian education in America,
Joseph Neef.
Dr. Owen had been appointed State Geologist of Indiana and
immediately after his marriage he entered upon the duties of this
position. He made a preliminary reconnoissance in 1837 and 1838,
his report upon which was published immediately after its com-
pletion and reissued in 1859. Geological science being little un-
derstood in the West when this document first appeared, a brief
introductory exposition of the leading formations was given in it,
after which the rich deposits of coal, iron, and building stones
within the limits of the State were described.
The Hon. James Whitcomb, then Governor of Indiana, was
soon afterward appointed Commissioner of the General Land Office,
and Congress having ordered a survey of the Dubuque and Mineral
Point districts under the direction of his bureau, he selected Dr.
Owen, with whose ability he was well acquainted, to conduct this
examination. These districts comprised eleven thousand square
miles of the Northwest Territory, now included in the States of
Wisconsin and Iowa, and the object of the examination was to
enable the commissioner to reserve from sale those sections found
to contain mineral wealth. But a short time was allowed for the
work, hence it became necessary to organize a large force. The
difficulties involved in such a rapid prosecution of the survey are
indicated in the report presented by Dr. Owen to the commis-
sioner, April 2, 1840. " In one month from the day I received my
commission and instructions," he says, "(to wit, on September
17th), I had reached the mouth of Rock River ; engaged one hun-
