SKETCH OF DAVID DALE OWEN. 263
The scope of his examination was then enlarged so as to em-
brace a fuller survey of portions of the Northwest Territory,
lying mainly within the present States of Wisconsin, Iowa, and
Minnesota. This task required five years of field work and a final
year of laboratory and office work, ending with the year 1852. A
large appropriation was made by Congress for illustrating and
printing Owen's report, all the details of publication being com-
mitted to him. The result was a finely illustrated quarto volume
of six hundred and thirty-eight pages, many of the illustrations
being from the original drawings of Dr. Owen, who had great
facility in sketching. In this volume he applied for the first time
the medal-ruling style of engraving to cuts of fossils.
In an article on Geological Surveys in Missouri Mr. Arthur
Winslow says of Owen's reports up to this time: "These reports
supplied the guiding lines along which later stratigraphic work
in the Mississippi Valley was done. Without attempting here to
present the history of this work, its bearing upon the future work
in Missouri calls for brief mention. In the Indiana reports Owen
makes a separation of the rocks, in harmony with the English
classification, into 1. Bituminous coal formations. 2. Mountain
limestone. 3. Grauwacke. 4. Crystalline and inferior stratified
rocks. In the succeeding reports, as the results of wider observa-
tion and more thorough study, the classification was changed and
differentiated until, in the final report, we find a classification
which, not only in its general features, but in many of its details,
is still adhered to in Missouri."
From 1854 to 1859 Dr. Owen was occupied with the geological
survey of Kentucky, having been appointed State Geologist by
Governor Powell. The results of his explorations were published
as the work progressed, and compose four large octavo volumes.
Dr. Robert Peter, of Lexington, Ky., performed the chemical
work of the survey and made a special report upon it.
Toward the close of his labors in Kentucky, in October, 1857,
Dr. Owen was commissioned to conduct a geological survey of the
State of Arkansas. His principal assistant in the Kentucky sur-
vey, Mr. E. T. Cox, filled the same position in the new work. The
chemical assistant on the latter survey was Dr. Elderhorst, author
of a work on the blowpipe. Various incidents in his several sur-
veys prove Dr. Owen to have been a man of indomitable perse-
verance. Once, while on the Red River of the North with a
Canadian voyageur, the fowling-piece used by the latter for pro-
curing game was discharged in such a way as to lodge a number
of shot in Dr. Owen's shoulder. But he did not permit the acci-
dent to delay him an hour. Again, the summer occupied with the
field work of the Arkansas survey, a considerable part of which
was necessarily spent in the rich and malarious bottom lands.
