EDITOR'S TABLE.
269
might succumb. And then, after all,
why go to all this trouble of focaliza-
tion, etc., when it is just as easy, gener-
ally speaking, not to sit in a draught ?
It seems to us that in point of sim-
plicity materialistic teaching has, in
this matter at least, a decided superi-
ority over the spiritualistic. The be-
liever in the laws of matter says : " If
you sit in a draught, particularly
when you are heated and perspiring,
you will be in danger of catching cold,
which may take the form of pneu-
monia, pleurisy, lumbago, or some-
thing else both dangerous and pain-
ful ; therefore don't sit in a draught if
you can possibly help it." The spir-
itual philosopher says : " Don't sit in
a draught unless you are sure of your
subjective conditions. Draughts do
not cause illness ; it is your suscepti-
bility does that, and it should be your
aim to get rid of sucli susceptibility by
pursuing ideals and getting your at-
titude of mind properly focalized."
A poet already quoted, who gives us
many a shrewd hint, tells of a i)hilos-
opher who, while gazing at the stars,
walked into a well; and we should
be inclined to dread some not alto-
gether dissimilar catastrophe for the
devotee of this exalted doctrine.
It is a great mistake, we are told,
to say, "J am cold," "/ am ill," "J
have hurt myself." The proper
phrases to use are not given, but it
is implied that, if we would express
the truth, w^e should say, " The plas-
tic material which I, a soul, have
picked up is cold, ill, etc." The body
is the wicked j)artner that gets into
these scrapes, and we should remind
ourselves continually that the soul
has no complicity in such misdoings.
A man " may mentally say to him-
self even mechanically at first until
the habit is formed I, the real ego^
am well, I am strong, I am pure, I
am perfect, disregarding adverse
physical sensations." Ordinary com-
mon sense tells us that "adverse
physical sensations" ought not to
be disregarded, but on the contrary
ought to be taken as warnings that
we have violated in some way the
laws of our physical nature. If we
have an acute indigestion caused by
taking food excessive in quantity or
unsuitable in quality, we should,
according to the above teaching,
meet the emergency by eulogizing
our soul for its strength, its purity,
and its perfection, for its oneness
"with the divine spirit of whole-
ness." Not occupying so exalted a
plane as the advocate of mental
healing, we should be disposed to
consider the occasion a very unsuit-
able one for eulogizing the soul. If
the soul does not direct or control
the voluntai'y actions of the body, it
is hard to see what good it is ; and if
our soul has allowed us to make a
beast of ourselves, it would be better,
it seems to us, to tell it some home
truths. It is really almost too ridicu-
lous to say that if a man gets drunk
he is to ' disregard adverse physical
sensations," and sing a paean, how-
ever huskily, to his ego ; yet, where
is the line to be drawn ?
But again, what degree of tri-
umph over physical phenomena may
we expect to achieve ? It was prom-
ised to the early believers in Chi'is-
tianity that they should be able to
take up serpents with impunity, and
that if they drank any deadly thing
it should not hurt them. Is some-
thing like this the goal of the system
we are discussing ? Once take the
position that the material is the un-
substantial, and all the foundations
of our everyday life give way. The
" plastic material " which the soul
appropriated in order to acquire
"articulate manifestation" loses all
definite properties ; and how that
would answer the purposes of the
soul is a very obscure question. As
we have hinted in our headline, the
whole theory under discussion lies
