270
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
on the borderland of nonsense except
when it crosses the line. The only
saving truth it contains and that is
by no means its property is that
man is a rational creature, that his
mental life is very closely connected
with his physical life, and that the
proper ordering of his thoughts and
aims is, therefore, a matter of prime
importance for his happiness. All
the same, he requires a stable world
to live in one the laws of which will
not permit him to be wayward or
reckless, but which, while making
ample return for worthy effort, will
visit with penalties not to be averted,
"adverse sensations" not to be con-
jured away by any tricks of self-hyp-
notization, every departure from the
path of knowledge and self-control.
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL VIEW OF
CIVILIZATION.
We commented in onr last num-
ber upon the interesting address de-
livered by the President of the Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement
of Science, and we have now before
us an address of equal interest and
perhaps of greater practical impor-
tance from the president, Dr. Flinders
Petrie, of the Anthropological Sec-
tion of the British Association. Dr.
Petrie is widely known as one of the
most learned Egyptologists of the
present day, and as professor of that
study at University College, Lon-
don. He has spent many years in
actual research in Egypt, and has
thus been brought into close and
varied contact with different sec-
tions of the Egyptian people. Dur-
ing the period of his stay in that
country systematic efforts were be-
ing put forth to civilize the people
according to European ideas, and, as
a commencement, to teach them how
to read and write; and he has been
able to study the process in its prac-
tical results. In addition to his spe-
cial accomplishments, Dr Petrie is a
man of wide culture and of a vigor-
ous habit of mind, and one therefore
whose views are deserving of careful
and respectful attention.
He discusses for us, in his address,
the meanings which, from the stand-
point of anthropology, should be as-
signed to those often vaguely used
words "race" and "civilization."
We must pass over his remarks on
the first of these terms, though they
are both interesting and original.
In regard to the latter the position he
takes is that wherever there was a
human society there civilization is
to be found. " Civilization," he ob-
serves, " really means simply the art
of living in a community, the checks
and counter-checks, the division of
labor, and the conveniences that
arise from common action when a
group of men live in close relation
to each other." In other words, the
term has a relative, not an absolute
meaning; and the practical question
which confronts the so-called higher
races in certain cases is whether it
is desirable to replace, or attempt to
replace, the relative civilization of
a given lower race or one which
they regard as such by their own
more advanced modes of life.
This brings us to the most impor-
tant part of Prof. Petrie's discourse.
" Every civilization," he says, " is
the growing product of a very com-
plex set of conditions depending on
race and character, on climate, on
trade, and every minutia of the cir-
cumstances. To attempt to alter
such a system, apart from its condi-
tions, is to attempt the impossible.
No change is legitimate or beneficial
to the real character of a people, ex-
cept what flows from conviction and
the natural growth of the mind."
Such conviction and such mental
growth are not to be had if we pre-
sent uuassimilable ideas and ideals.
Our intentions may be excellent, but
