EDITOR'S TABLE.
271
the results will be none the less de-
plorable, if we ignore the limits
which Nature and history have
set to our efforts. " We talk
complacently," says the jjrofessor,
" about the mysterious decay of sav-
ages before white men." There is
nothing mysterious about it ; we
change their environment, we sub-
ject them to new laws, force them to
adopt new habits, give an unwonted
direction and exercise to their men-
tal faculties, subject them in a hun-
dred ways to a psychological strain
which they are unable to stand, and
the result is that they wither just as
we should do if we were similarly
treated. Of all svstems, that which
the Anglo-Saxon race seeks to im-
pose upon the weaker peoples with
which it comes into contact is the
most oppressive. "Scarcely a single
race," the professor emphatically de-
clares, " can bear the contact and the
burden." In regard to the Egyp-
tians, he gives his own experience.
"Some of the i)easantry are taught
to read and write, and the result is
that they become fools. I can not
say this too plainly : an Egyptian
who has had reading and writing-
thrust upon him is, in every case
that 1 have met with, half-witted,
silly, or incapable of taking care of
himself. His intellect and his health
have been undermined and crippled
by the forcing of education."
Is it impossible, then, for the more
advanced races to lend any real as-
sistance to the less advanced ? It is,
if the only idea of assisting them is
to Europeanize them ; but not, if the
more rational idea is adopted of a
gradual education along wholly nat-
ural lines, with due regard to condi-
tions both present and antecedent.
" Our bigoted belief," says Prof. Pe-
trie, " in reading and writing is not
in the least justified when we look at
the mass of mankind. The exquisite
art and noble architecture of Myke-
nae, the undying song of Homer, the
extensive trade of the bronze age, all
belonged to people who neither read
nor wrote. The great essentials of a
valuable character moderation, jus-
tice, sympathy, politeness and con-
sideration, quick observation, shrewd-
ness, ability to plan and prearrange,
a keen sense of the uses and prop-
erties of things all these are the
qualities on which I value my Egyp-
tian friends, and such qualities are
what should be evolved by any edu-
cation worth the name." The most
valuable educative influence is ex-
ample, if only it be of the right kind ;
and if the higher races could, in their
dealings with the lower, show that
they were steadily actuated by a
purer and higher morality, they
would insensibly modify for the bet-
ter the institutions and customs of
the latter.
The words in which Prof. Petrie
describes the characteristic results of
education in the best sense, and also
his remarks on the effect of forcing
education on minds unfitted for it,
may well afford matter for reflec-
tion, not only in connection with
the treatment of lower races, but
with the working out of pi'obleras
nearer home. In answer to the
question, " What can be the harm of
raising the intellect in some cases if
we can not do it in all ?" the pro-
fessor says, ''The harm is that you
manufacture idiots. " Now, seriously,
are we quite sure that our own edu-
cational methods does not in some,
nay in many, cases tend to the manu-
facture of idiots ? Does every young
man, or every second, or even every
third, young man who goes through
college come out of it intellectually
to say nothing of morally stronger
than he went in ? When we read
of the reckless and riotous insubor-
dination that sometimes marks " com-
mencement" days, we can not help
wondering whether the right kind
