2/2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of material has been gathered within
the college walls, or whether, if the
material is all right, the course of
instruction and discipline has been
what it should have been. But, this
consideration apart, has the public
learned to recognize in the average
college graduate a very intelligent,
helpful, and self-helping young man?
Or does just a suspicion of greater
or less silliness and incapacity attach
to the type ? That many bright
young men emerge from college it
would be foolish, even on the general
doctrine of probabilities, to doubt,
seeing that a young man, if he pos-
sesses any brightness, has so good a
chance in this country of being sent
to college; but what, we ask, is the
effect on those who have no bent
toward learning, but who go to sat-
isfy a social exigency or to fill up
a certain number of vacant years ?
We fear that Prof. Petrie might in
his haste pronounce some of them
manufactured idiots not unlike the
Egyptians he had seen spoiled by
overmuch reading and writing.
But, taking a wider view, are we
sure that even the public-school edu-
cation which we force on all chil-
dren alike is always an aid to true
intelligence and civilization ? Such
as it is, it enfeebles, we greatly fear,
rather than strengthens the brains of
some who are subjected to it, and
who are not intellectually fit for the
abstractions with which, it largely
deals. The whole subject requires
to be carefully studied apart from all
prepossession, prejudice, and senti-
ment. We have been forcing edu-
cation for a long time with all the
power of the state, but whether the
average intelligence of the commu-
nity has risen in response to our
efforts is a question which it would
not be safe to answer offhand. We
do not hesitate to say that to us it
appears as if our methods of educa-
tion were being insensibly adapted
to a lower and lower grade of gen-
eral intelligence. In the matter of
arithmetic, particularly, it seems to
be assumed that something like idio-
cy is not only the starting point in
the pupil's mind but a condition of
considerable duration. Forty years
ago no such elaborate means were
resorted to as seem necessary to-day
to get a few elementary principles of
numerical logic into a child's mind;
and it is a grave question whether in
the attempt to devise a system of
teaching adapted to the most de-
graded type of mind we are not run-
ning some risk of impairing the de-
velopment of minds of a higher
order. Exceeding bitter, we know,
has been the cry of many a parent
at the tedious drill and senseless
repetitions imposed upon his chil-
dren and the consequent needless
lengthening by two or three years
at least of the period of school edu-
cation. The philosophy of the whole
thing is apparent in the light of
Prof. Petrie's remarks. The state is,
to a not inconsiderable extent, en-
gaged in the manufacture of idiots.
The discussion which followed
the president's address was remark-
able in one respect, and that was that
among the speakers all men of dis-
tinction not one laid any stress, as
would certainly have been done a
generation ago, on the importance of
Christianizing the lower races. It
seemed to be assumed that Christian-
ity, as a doctrine and to some extent
as a moral system, involved too radi-
cal a change of ideas to be profitably
adopted by heathen tribes, unless in
a very gradual manner. The presi-
dent himself pointed out that the
apostle Paul had not seen it neces-
sary to prohibit slavery, polygamy,
or even gladiatorial shows. And yet
the preaching of Paul prepared the
way for " the greatest readjustment
of the moral sense that the world
has ever seen." We should learn
