SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
273
from tliis to have patience with the
imperfect usages of the heathen of
our day, and not insist on their ris-
ing at once to the full height of an
advanced Christian morality. It is
impossible to doubt that the address
of Prof. Petrie will have a powerful
effect in promoting rational views
oa the important questions with
which he dealt. It was not the ut-
terance of a partisan, a zealot, or a
narrow specialist, but of a man who
spoke from well-matured conviction
and a broad basis of knowledge.
Had the meeting of the British As-
sociation given us nothing moi-e
than this, it would have made
no slight contribution to the cause
of enlightenment and true civiliza-
tion.
^cxtuXiiit %itf:Xid\xxt.
SPECIAL BOOKS.
Man has ever been curious about the origins of things. In the child-
hood of the race he wondered where the wind came from and the water in
the streams, how the sun and moon were made, what caused the thunder
and the lightning, and how the first plants, the first animals, and the first
human beings came to be. Later the origin of arts and customs, the rise
of tribes and peoples, the production of material substances, and a host of
similar problems engrossed his attention. Two ways of answering these
questions have been relied upon by him at difi:'erent times. The first was
by speculation, and produced beautiful myths, fantastic cosmogonies,
quaint folklore, or pseudo-sciences, according as the genius of one people
differed from that of another. The second way depends upon research,
and has reached its highest development in the investigations of modern
science. Its inquiry into the past has given us a wealth of archasological
lore such as is embodied in two volumes now before us. In one of these
Prof. Mason* has set forth the results of a study of industry among prim-
itive peoples, revealing the manner in which the tools, devices, and
processes used in the arts must have originated. The arrow and spear
heads, knives, hammers, and axes of primitive man are the precursors of a
host of striking and cutting implements. Several kinds of drills have been
found in use by savage tribes. The screw, the pulley, and the wheel and
axle are known to savages only in a rudimentary way, but the lever and the
wedge are largely used by them. Modes of kindling and caring for fire
make an interesting chapter, a notable feature in which is the evolution of
the bellows. The use of stone is commonly thought of as characterizing
primitive arts, and this idea is embodied in the name " Stone age." This
is a misconception, for, as Prof. Mason points out, where one tool of stone
was used there were many constructed of the more easily worked materials,
wood, bone, shell, horn, and hide. We do not find them in ancient graves
and mounds, simply because their materials are much more perishable than
stone. Hence, while stone-working furnished wide scope for invention in
The Origins of Invention. By Otis T. Mason, Curator of the Department of Ethnology in the
United States National Museum. Pp. 419, crown 8vo. London : Walter Scott, Ltd., 3*. 6c?. New
York : Imported by Charles Scribner's Sons. Price, $1.25.
VOL. XLTIIl. 20
