274 ^^^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
primitive times, the working of wood did no less. The potter's art origi-
nated early, and the forms of primitive pottery are an ever-pleasing sur-
prise to the archaeologist and the technographer. The same is true of the
textile industry. In producing implements of war and the chase invention
made important advances in primitive times, and material is not lacking to
show how facilities for travel and transportation, both by land and sea,
arose. Coming to the end of the volume, we are impelled to query why the
author made his index so scanty, and why he divided it in the inconvenient
German fashion.
The other of the two hooks referred to above is concerned with the art
of writing.* The important aid which this art gives to man's progress by
preserving the experience of each generation to guide all that follow
makes it well worthy of separate treatment. The art of transmitting in-
telligence proceeds from objects serving as reminders through picture
writing to phonetic writing with an alphabet. The author has presented
this course of development especially as it is shown among the native races
of North America, from the Innuit in the north to the Mayas and ancient
Mexicans in the south, among whom all stages are represented. Illustra-
tions are frequently drawn also from the Egyptian and other Oriental
peoples. It is easy to see how objects can be represented by pictures, and
savage races have shown themselves very clever in representing action by
the same means. Thus in many of the Ojibwa records going, or running,
is represented by drawing either the sole of the foot or the lower j)art of
the legs. In the Mexican codices a distinction between running and walk-
ing is denoted by placing the legs in the correct position in each case. The
sign for eating or food among several peoples consists of a human figure
with the hand placed to the mouth. Lines proceeding from the mouth of
either a human or animal figure denote the use of the voice. Adding the
figure of the heart within the outline of the human body makes the voice
lines mean singing. Similarly wavy lines from the ears denote hearing.
To distinguish an object used as a proper name, a human figure or the
head alone is placed below it with a line from the mouth to the name
object. Such signs gradually become conventionalized and reduced to
simpler forms. When the name or sound suggested by one object comes
to be joined with another such sound to denote a word having only a
phonetic relation to the names of these two objects, then the ideograms
become phonograms. Further progress in this direction converts the
phonograms into alphabetic characters. At the discovery of America the
writing of the Mexicans and Mayas was rapidly approaching the syllabic
stage. The only phonetic alphabet actually devised by aboriginal Ameri-
cans is that of the Cherokee, Sequoya, but this uses the forms of the Roman
letters variously modified, and hence is not an independent creation. Dr.
Hoffman's volume contains four plates and over a hundred smaller figures,
and is adequately indexed.
The world is beginning to realize that " Peace hath her victories no less
renowned than war," and in consequence its appetite for butchery seems to
be abating. A set of books called the Century Science Series, that has been
* The Beginnings of Writing. By Walter James Hoffman, M.D. Anthropological Series. Pp.
209, 12mo. New York : D. Appleton & Co. Price, $1.75.
