SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE. 275
undertaken under the able editorship of Sir Henry E. Roscoe, will contrib-
ute to this result by showing that the laboratory and the explorer's camp
have their heroes as well as the battlefield. Sir Henry contributes the
opening volume to the series, taking as his subject his eminent British pred-
ecessor in the tield of chemistry, John Dalton* Dalton's great contribu-
tion to chemistry is the atomic theory, and it may be fairly ranked as the
comer stone of the science. He also established important laws concerning
the behavior of gases and made valuable meteorological researches. In
depicting the scientist, Sir Henry does not let us lose sight of the man. He
shows us Dalton as the Cumbrian Quaker lad, with his northern dialect and
mild though unpolished manners ; then as the young schoolmaster and the
tutor, careful of his scanty resources and no less so of his time ; afterward
as the plain and unpretending man of science, ever ready for a pipe and a
chat with the fi'iends of old times, but with no faculty for being agreeable
to persons who did not interest him. Having, when a young man, bought
a pair of silk stockings as a present for his mother, supposing them to be of
orthodox drab, he was greatly astonished to hear them pronounced " Varra
fine stuff, but uncommon scarlety." It was in this way that his eyes were
opened to the defect of his vision, and he at once proceeded to make the
first scientific study of color-blindness. Dalton had the frame of a north-
em yeoman, high but not extraordinary mental powers, and persever-
ance. To this last quality rather than to genius he ascribed whatever of
value he accomplished, and in this respect he seems to have judged correctly.
Is the story of the Herschels f especially dramatic, or is it Miss Gierke's
talent as a narrator that makes her contribution to the Century Series a
remarkably fascinating volume ? William Herschel's laying down the
baton of a musical director to become an astronomer is dramatic enough,
and so is his sister's dutiful abandonment of a career as a vocalist to serve
as his assistant. William had been trained in music by his father, who
was bandmaster in a Hanoverian regiment ; he had proved a bright boy at
school, and when he went to England at nineteen years of age was a young
man of pleasant address, " who spoke English perfectly, played like a virtu-
oso, and possessed a curious stock of varied knowledge." Miss Clerke has
made a continuous story of his life, intertwining the thread of his musical
and that of his scientific vocation, where these are contemporaneous, with
that of Lis personal history, A chapter devoted to Caroline tells of her
early years as a family drudge and her quarter century of retirement after
her brother's death, supplying also some additional details of her co-opera-
tion in his labors. The sketch of Sir John Herschel is given in much the
same style as that of his father. While mainly occupied with his observa-
tions in the southern hemisphere and other astronomical labors, it tells also
of his work in i^hysics and mathematics, and his writings not omitting
his verse. The volume contains a portrait of each of its subjects.
To those who imagine that the name J. von Liebig I stands merely for
a manufacturer of meat extracts, who may still be conducting his works
* John Dalton and the Rise of Modern Chemistry. By Sir Henry E. Roscoe. Pp. 216, 12mo. New
York : Macmillan & Co. Price, $1.25. London : Cassell & Co. Price, Ss. &<J.
t The Herschels and Modern Astronomy. By Agnes M. Clerke. Pp. 224, 12mo. New York :
Macmillan & Co. Price, $1.25. London : Cassell & Co. Price, 3s. 6d.
X Justus von Liebig : his Life and Work. By W. A. Shenstone. Pp. 219, 12mo. New York :
Macmillan & Co. Price, $1.25. London : Cassell & Co. Price, 3s. Qd.
