276 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
somewhere in Germany, Mr, Shenstone has a message. He wishes them
to know who Liehig was, what he did, and why all chemists and all those
who are versed in the history of science admire and esteem him so greatly.
To this end our author has taken especial pains to set forth Liebig's
applications of chemistry to the arts, even at the expense, as he concedes, of
doing "something less than justice'" to the great German's labors in pure
science. Liebig was the son of a color-maker, who was able to give him a
university education, but this was of little benefit to him in becoming a
chemist. His private studies, supplemented by admission to Gay-Lussac's
private laboratory, prejiared him for his profession. Mr. Shenstone enu-
merates four great departures in which Liebig took the lead. First, he
devised the process now followed in analyzing organic compounds, and
with this as an implement he determined the composition and discovered
cheaper and safer ways of making many substances important to science
and industry. Second, he showed that plants derive their nourishment not
so much from the humus as from the inorganic salts in the soil and the
carbon dioxide of the air, and went on to formulate rules for the making
and application of fertilizers and for the practical conduct of other agri-
cultural operations. His third great work was closely connected with this.
It related to physiological chemistry, taking up the office of the food of ani-
mals in producing tissue, maintaining the animal heat, etc. Liebig's fourth
great departure was introducing the laboratory method of teaching chemis-
try. This alone would have won him high fame. Mr. Shenstone does not
dwell upon Liebig's private life, but gives an insight into his combative
but generous character when telling of his collaboration with Wohler and
with Dumas, also in the chapter on his later years. Accounts of the
work of Faraday, Maxwell, Lyell, Davy, Pasteur, Darwin, and Helmholtz
are announced as in preparation, and if they are executed as acceptably
as the earlier volumes, this series will be a notably attractive and in-
structive one.
The multiplication of untechnical, familiar books about flowers, whether
of the garden, field, or forest, is a good sign. It .shows that more and more
people are growing interested in the subject, and that those who have not
had opportunity to take a course in botany, or whose time, or eyes, or pa-
tience are not sufficient to enable them to plod thi'ough the mass of minute
details involved in the technical identifications of the manuals, want to
know what they are and what their relationships. Mr. 3fatheivs, author
of Familiar Floicers of Field and Garden* enjoys a point of observa-
tion farther north than do most of the others who have given us books of
this kind, wanting from Campton, N, H., on the edge of the Franconia
Mountains. There he has a garden in which most of the western and
southwestei-n wild flowers are cultivated, while the wild flowers of New
England grow in the fields and woods around. With these he spends much
time ; and in this book he attempts to introduce them to the reader by name
and familiar description and picture, and to supplement the introduction
by a little friendly gossip based on personal experience. These flowers are
treated according to the seasons and months in which they appear ; while
* Familiar Flowers of Field and Garden, described and illustrated by F. Schuyler Mathews.
Pp308, 12mo. New York : D. Appleton & Ca Price, $1.75. London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trtibner
&Co.
