PRINCIPLES OF taxation: 13
A recent English writer has claimed that the experience in
reference to taxation of the forty-five anomalous sovereignties
which now make up the United States [none subordinate to a
national Government except to a limited extent and in respect
to particular questions], has thrown a great light upon the temper
of democracies. "Half a century ago every thinker predicted
that the one grand evil of democracy would be meanness ; that it
would display an ' ignorant impatience of taxation,' and that it
would refuse supplies necessary to the dignity, or at least to the
visible greatness, of the state." That prediction has, however,
proved itself, not only by the experience of the United States, but
also of the leading countries in Europe, to be the exact contrary
of the facts. "The lower the suffrage, the higher the budget
mounts. Democracy loves spending, is devoted to dignity, and,
provided they are indirect, or fall heaviest on the rich, will pay
any amount of taxes. The English democracy with household
suffrage, though it has reduced its debt, has increased its budget,
increased rates all over the country, and would not be frightened
to-morrow if a great socialistic experiment were to cost it a hun-
dred millions. It hardly shudders when it is asked to support
in comfort, at a cost of about 17,000,000 ($85,000,000), its whole
aged poor. The French democracy has nearly doubled its taxa-
tion and raised its debt more than a third, apart from the tribute
paid to Germany. The German democracy, with enlarged suf-
frage, a poor soil, and nearly universal poverty, is always grant-
ing new demands, whether for soldiers, ships, colonies, or central-
ized officials."
But it is in the United States, with universal suffrage and the
richest of estates, that the extravagance of government expendi-
tures, sustained by taxation, rises to a point which fiscal experts,
like Alexander Hamilton, Robert J. Walker, and Albert Gallatin
in the United States, and Sir Robert Peel or Ricardo in Eng-
land, could not have been persuaded to believe possible. Either
of them would have declared an American pension list amounting
to $155,000,000 (31,000,000) a year too absurd for credence, and
would have criticised the prophet who made the prediction for
his poverty of invention.
That the interests benefited by national extravagance will,
undfer free suffrage, always constitute a formidable obstacle to
judicious tax reform, especially if such reform contemplates na-
tional economizing, can not well be doubted ; and also that this
opposition will be re-enforced to some extent by a popular feeling
that something of color and dignity will go out of national life
by any marked curtailment of the expenditures of the State. On
the other hand, the political supremacy of the United States con-
fessedly yet resides in its agricultural classes, who more than any
