SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
279
same relation to the geology of the earth as
comparative anatomy to the anatomy of man.
His special application of it is to the geology
of the planets compared with that of the earth.
The fruits of his studies are now embodied in
a book bearing that title, which is published
by F61ix Alcan, Paris, in the French Interna-
tional Scientific Series. Though the materials
for such a study may at first sight seem lack-
ing, M. Meunier has found enough, in the re-
sults of telescopic and spectroscopic and other
observations, particularly of the moon and
Mars and the examination of meteorites, to
make possible a fairly distinct outline, and
to prompt further inquiry into this field.
In the Report of the Commissioner of
Edimation for 1891-92 most of the statis-
tics are relegated to the second volume, while
the first volume is devoted mainly to essays
on special subjects. Among the more ex-
tended of these are an account of the modes
of training teachers employed in Germany,
Austria, and Switzerland, by the able educa-
tional writer Dr. L. R. Klemm; also a de-
scription of German universities translated
from a book prepared for the German
educational exhibit at the Chicago Exposi-
tion, and a suggestive paper on preparation
for the civil service in France and Prussia,
by W. F. and W. W. Willoughby. James
C Boykin contributes an essay of nearly a
hundred and fifty pages on Physical Train-
ing, half of which consists of a history of
the subject from the siege of Troy to Dio
Lewis, while the rest is of greater practical
value, consisting of descriptions of various
modes of training in present use, with il-
lustrations and statistics. Coeducation is
treated by A. Tolman Smith, who supple-
ments his discussion with a large number of
opinions of educators and a bibliography.
The summer schools have now become so
important that a history of them comes in
very appropriately here. It was prepared by
W. W. Willoughby.
The treatise on Rocks and Soils, by
Horace Edward Stockbridge, has come to a
second edition (Wiley). The author, who
held a professorship in the Imperial College
of Agriculture at Sapporo, Japan, when the
first edition appeared, is now President of
the Agricultural College of North Dakota.
Numerous changes and additions have been
made in the new edition, which may be
found by a comparison with the former
edition.
Home Geography for primary grades, by
C C. Long (American Book Company, 25
cents), is a thoughtfully arranged introduc-
tion to the study of this science. The aim
is to give the child object lessons by the use
of the surrounding landscape ; by directing
his attention to some neighboring hill, im-
press the idea mountain upon him ; some
small level space indicates a plain ; a brook
represents a river, a pond or lake the ocean,
etc. The idea is a good one, and is well
carried out.
How (lie Republic is Governed, by Noah
Brooks (Scribners, 75 cents), consists of a
brief consideration in small compass of the
fundamental principles which direct our
actions as a nation. Among the special
topics are The Federal Constitution ; The
Government of the United States in its Three
Departments Legislative, Executive, and
Judicial ; National and State Rights ; the In-
dians ; Patents and Copyrights ; Pensions ;
Declaration of Independence, and the Con-
stitution.
Another attempt to solve the problem of
gravitation is made by Mr. Robert Stevenson
in his paper, A New Potential Principle hi
Nature Elasticity a Mode of Motion. His
principle comprises kinetic energy in the
line of motion of a body, and kinetic stabil-
ity tending to prevent displacement trans-
verse to that line. The latter acts partly as
a force of restitution to the original direc-
tion, with the resultant of causing a curvi-
linear motion. The author conceived his
idea while he was a student of Sir William
Thomson.
Notes on the Geology of the Island of
Citha is based upon a reconnoissance made
by the author, Mr. Robert T. Hill, for Alex-
ander Agassiz. Mr. Hill spent about a
month on the island, accompanied by some
American engineers who were familiar with
the country, and who, by reason of their
knowledge, were of great assistance to him.
Going into the interior to Villa Clara, to ac-
quaint himself with that region, he exam-
ined the features of the older nucleal area of
Cuba ; then made a thorough study of the
cut of the Yumuri River at Matanzas, and of
the limestone formations of the vicinity ; in-
vestigated the geology of Havana ; and
