FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
281
Progress of the "World. Monthly, Vol. I, No. 1,
October, 1895. New York : Progress of the World
Company, 1E6 Fifth Avenue. Pp. 156. 10 cents ;
$1 a year.
Richards, Frank. Compressed Air. New
York : John Wiley & Sons. London : Chapman
& Hall. Pp. SO."?.
Rlsteen, A. D. Molecules and the Molecular
Theory of Matter. Boston and London : Ginn &
Co. Pp. 233. $2.
Romanes, George John. Darwin and after
Darwin. II. Post-Darwinian Questions ; Hered-
ity and Utility. Chicago : Open Court Publish-
ing Company. Pp. 344. $1.50.
Salazar, A. E., and Newman. Q. Estudios
Ijienlquoe del Aire (Hygienical Studies of the Air).
Santiago, Chile. Pp. 20, with Plates.
Scott, E. G. Reconstruction during the Civil
War in the United States of America. Boston
and New York : Houghton, Mifflin & Co. Pp.
483. $3.
Sizer, Nelson. How to Study Strangers, by
Temperament, Face, and Head. New York :
Fowler & Wells Company. Pp. 367. $1.50.
Smithsonian Institution. An Account of its
Origin, History, Objects, and Achievements. Pp.
about 20, with Plates. The Exhibit of the In-
stitution at th,^ Cotton States Exposiiion, Atlanta,
1895. Pp. about 80.
Stevens, W. Le Conte. Recent Progress in
Optics. Salem, Mass. : The Salem Press. Pp. 22.
Stoddard, Charles Augustus. Cruising among
the Caribbees . New York : Charles Scribner's
Sons. Pp. 198. $1.50.
Stuver, E. Asexualization for the Limitation
of Disease, and the Prevention and Punishment of
Crime. Rawlins, Wyoming. Pp. 16.
United States Life-Saving Service, Annual
Report of Operations, 1894. Washington : Gov-
ernment Printing Office. Pp. 470.
Whiteley, R. Lloyd. Organic Chemistry. The
Fatty Compounds. New York and London :
Longmans, Green & Co. Pp. 285.
Winterburn, Florence Hull. Nursery Ethics.
New York : The Merriam Company. Pp. 341.
Wright, Carroll D., United States Commis-
sioner of Labor, and Gould, E. R. L. The Hous-
ing of the Working People. (Eighth Special Re-
p rt of the Commissioner of Labor.) Washington :
Government Printing Office. Pp. 461.
^ra0tweuts 0t ^cli^uc^.
Constitnents of Ocean Bottoms. In his
summary of the results of the Challenger
Expedition, Dr. Murray classifies marine de-
posits as littoral, shallow water, and deep
sea. Such deposits are, in origin, either
land-derived or pelagic that is, of the
ocean. The land-derived deposits edge the
shores, for the finest river mud is rarely met
with as far as three hundred miles from the
coast, and particles so large as to be called
sand remain close to it. Regarded in this
light, the whole ocean beyond the three-hun-
dred-mile belt of " territorial waters " pos-
sesses a distinct individuality, invaded by no
material of land origin except the mud and
boulders carried by drifting ice, the dust
which settles out of the air, and scraps of
floating pumice from volcanic eruptions. In
a few patches less than seventeen hundred
fathoms deep, far from land, the remains of
relatively large and delicate shells which
lived on the surface abound at the bottom,
mixed with innumerable shells of dense,
nearly microscopic foraminifera and a little
clayey matter, the whole receiving the general
name of pteropod ooze, from the characteris-
tic shells of pteropods which occur in it. In
deeper waters no pteropod or other delicate
shells are found, and the calcareous meal of
foraminifera, closely resembling softened
chalk, is called globigeiina ooze, from the
particular genus of surface-living organ-
ism which occurs in largest proportion. At
greater depths globigerina ooze is found in
which the microscopic shells appear much
corroded ; and finally, in the deeps or areas
more than three thousand fathoms below the
surface, the deposit is almost free from car-
bonate of lime, and forms a stiff red clay
composed of decomposed volcanic or atmos-
pheric dust and those constituents of shells
that are not readily dissolved by sea water.
The process of formation has been clearly
shown. Over the whole surface the same
shell-bearing creatures die in myriads ; their
bodies fall continuously as a gentle calcare-
ous snow shower through the water, which
slowly dissolves them. The large thin shells
vanish first, and only reach the bottom in
shallow water ; the dense spheres of the pin-
head and smaller foraminifera resist longest,
and only the insoluble residue reaches the
greatest depth. Thus the excess of carbon-
ate of lime dissolved in the deepest layers
of the ocean is readily explained. The red
clay forms so slowly that particles of metal-
lic dust from exploded meteorites, which are
covered up by the surface accumulations
