282
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
everywhere else, form an appreciable pro-
portion of its substance. In places where
silicious organisms like sponges and radio-
larias are numerous on the surface, their
glassy spicules form a considerable ingredi-
ent in the red clay, which, when the propor-
tion reaches a considerable value, is called
radiolarian ooze. Again, in the cool and less
saline water of the southern ocean, and in
other cases where the water is freshened,
the microscopic, silica-sheathed, self-moving
plants known as diatoms swarm in such vast
numbers that the deposit consists in very
large degree of their shells. When the pro-
portion reaches one half it is described as
diatom ooze. The red clay covers about
fifty-one million square miles of the ocean
floor ; globigerina ooze is spread over about
fifty million square miles ; and diatomooze
occupies a belt encircling the globe in the
southern ocean, with a total area of about
ten million square miles. These three kinds
of deposits are thus believed to spread over
a surface twice as extensive as all the land
of the earth. The terrigenous or land-
derived deposits occupy about nineteen mil-
lion square miles, and one of the strongest
arguments for the existence of an antarctic
continent is the fact that they border the
belt of diatom ooze on the southward wher-
ever it has been passed.
Tenacity of Old Ritnals. While explor-
ing an ancient cemetery near Cuzco, Peru,
Mr. George A. Dorsey observed a curious
ceremony performed by the Quichua Indi-
ans which illustrated to him the tenacity
with which the old rites are held, and the
manner in which recognition of living spirits
of the dead and sacrifice to them still pre-
vail. The men had been unwilling to assist
him in disturbing the tombs of the dead,
because they contained the remains of their
ancestors, to remove which would be sacri-
lege, but were drafted into his service by a
peremptory order from the prefect. On ap-
proaching the tombs the men knelt and pro-
nounced in unison an invocation which be-
gan with a recital to the spirits of the chiefs
as sons of the great Pachacamac of the doc-
trine of the Trinity and continued with the
address : " Chiefs, sons of the sun, we have
not come to disturb your tranquil sleep in
this your abode. We have come because
we have been compelled by our superiors ;
toward them may you direct your vengeance
and your curses ! " Then they made offer-
ings of coca, aguardiente, and chicha, and
called on a lofty, snow-capped mountain,
Sancahuara, to witness the truth of their
invocation.
A New Bear. A new bear is mentioned
by William H. Dall, in Science, as having
been observed frequenting the vicinity of
the glaciers of the St. Elias Alpine region.
It is regarded by the Indians and hunters as
distinct from both the black and the brown
bears of Alaska. It is not large, no skin
being more than six feet long, is shy, and
not so fierce as the other bears. Its general
color resembles that of the silver fox. The
fur is not very long, but is remarkably soft ;
and it has a rich bluish-black under fur,
while the longer hairs are often white, at
least in the distal half. The dorsal line, the
back of the ears, and the outer faces of the
limbs are jet-black. The sides, neck, and
rump are black and silver. The under sur-
face of the belly and the sinuses behind the
limbs are grayish white or pure white. The
bright tan color of the sides of the muzzle
and the lower fore part of the cheeks is in-
variable, and has not been seen by Mr. Dall
in any other American bear. The structure
of the claws is adapted to the climbing of
trees. Mr. Dall believes that it is at least
a well-defined local race, and proposes for it
the racial name of Emmoiisii. The Sitka
fur dealers call it the glacial or blue bear.
The Indians speak of another animal, un-
known to naturalists, as inhabiting the higher
mountains of the mainland. It is described
as resembling the mountain goat, with horns
nearly as long, but almost straight.
Agricultnrc on City Lots. A satisfactory
report upon the working of the experiment
tried in Detroit in 1894, of engaging the poor
and unemployed of the city in the cultivation
of vacant lands and lots, is published by the
SterUng Publishing Company, New York.
About four hundred and fifty acres, or seven
thousand city lots, were divided into quarter-
and half-acre tracts, and about three times
as many applications for allotments were re-
ceived as could be granted. The crops were
planted, cultivated, aud harvested by the
