FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
283
people themselves, under the supervision of
the committee ; about nine tenths of the
pieces were well taken. care of. The com-
mittee estimate that the potato crop aver-
aged about fifteen bushels per lot, giving
fourteen thousand one hundred and seventy-
five bushels in all ; and large quantities of
beans, turnips, and other vegetables were
raised and daily consumed, of which no rec-
ord was made. The estimated value of the
crops produced was from twelve to fourteen
thousand dollars, to say nothing of the pota-
toes that were eaten before they had attained
any considerable size. The entire cost to
the committee was thirty-six hundred dollars,
a sum that was made up by subscriptions.
" Should the experiment be continued, it is
best to get tracts of as many in a piece as
possible, and, if poor land, to collect the
sweepings of the streets to be put upon the
land in the spring or carry it upon the land
from time to time as collected to enrich the
soil ... It is believed that with the expe-
rience gained this year, the plan could in
many respects be improved and the cost
greatly reduced by beginning it in time. The
committee finds that about one third of an
acre is sufficient land for a family to raise
enough potatoes to last them through the
winter and furnish vegetables through the
summer." It should be recollected that the
experiment was tried under many disadvan-
tages. It was a step in the dark ; vacant
city lots are in appearance the most unpro-
ductive soil imaginable; the planting was
not begun till late in June, and the season
was one of the worst for garden crops which
the country had had for many years. Yet
the success was great. A like success is
claimed for a similar experiment tried in
Buffalo, N. Y., in 1896. Many problems of
economy, morals, and good taste would be
solved if the system should become general
and permanent.
Onyx Marble. The stone called onyx
marble, which is much used now in ornamen-
tal articles of furniture, is really a calcare-
ous or lime rock, which has been deposited
as a travertine or tufa from water in which
it was held in solution. Water, while it can
not alone dissolve lime rock, can take up
considerable quantities of it when it holds
carbonic acid in solution, but must drop it
again when the carbonic acid has escaped.
Both these processes are of common occur-
rence, and hence, in the springs where they
are going on, tufas or travertines are formed.
We know this much of what takes place, but
we do not know, says Mr. George P. Merrill,
in his paper on this subject, just what are
the conditions governing the compactness
and condition of crystallization of the de-
posit why in some cases it should be sus-
ceptible of an enamel-like polish, and in
others should be light and tufaceous. Onyx
marble is also found in caves as a constitu-
ent of the stalagmites and stalactites which
grow there, and much in the same way as in
the springs. Water charged with carbonic
acid percolating through the roof of the cave
brings down dissolved limestone, hangs in
drops to the roof, is evaporated or loses its
carbonic acid, and leaves a calcareous deposit
to be enlarged by continuous accretions. It
rarely happens that all the water evapo-
rates from the ceiling of the cave. Some
of it usually falls to the floor, whence it is
in its turn evaporated and leaves there a
continually growing deposit a stalagmite.
As the water in percolating through the roof
dissolved only the pure lime carbonate, or
took up only a trace of impurity, these sta-
lactitic and stalagmitic deposits are of purer
lime, refined and recrystallized under new
conditions. It follows almost from necessity
from their mode of origin that the beds of
onyx marbles, both spring and cave deposits,
are as a rule far less extensive and regular
in their arrangement than are the ordinary
stratified and imbedded marbles. Spring
action is more or less intermittent, and the
place of discharge, as well as the character of
the deposit, is variable. The deposit usually
takes the form of a comparatively thin crust,
conforming to the contours of the surfaces
on which it lies. The various layers thicken
and thin out irregularly, and are often len-
ticular in cross-section. Sound and homo-
geneous layers of more than twenty inches in
thickness are not common. A marked and
beautiful feature of the onyx marbles in gen-
eral, and particularly of those which originate
as spring deposits, is the fine, undulating par-
allel bands of growth or lines of accretion
shown on a cross-section, which are due to
its mode of origin through successive depo-
sitions upon the surface. The stone owes
