284
TH^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
its chief value for decorative purposes to
its translucency, fine venation, and color.
Sometimes the original hues have become
enhanced by oxidation and through the de-
velopment of reticulating veins of smal'
size, into which percolating waters have in-
troduced new coloring substances or locally
oxidized the protoxide carbonates which
seem to form the chief colouring constituent.
The finer grades of stone of this type are
obtained from few and scattered localities,
and, except those that are of cave origin,
generally, so far as the author has observed,
the most eminently desirable for ornamental
purposes are from hot and arid countries and
regions not far distant from recent volcanic
activity.
Giant Mountain Plants. Two Swiss bot-
anists, MM. Sommier and Sevier, who have
recently explored the Caucasus, tell of the
discovery of a mountain flora of giant her-
baceous plants, of which little was known
before, and which they designate as macro-
Jlora. At the altitude of about fifty-eight
hundred feet some plants reach a size
which they never attain in the valleys. A
campanula, which does not exceed about two
feet below, grows to about six feet at that
height, with an unpliable stem. The large,
kidney-shaped leaves of a valerian are borne
at the end of petioles so rigid that they can
be carried as parasols. These fields resem-
ble the pampas, and the rocks are hidden in
a growth of large plants of different kinds.
The luxuriance of this vegetation is ascribed
by the authors partly to the extraordinary
fertility of the soil, from which the accu-
mulated mold of ages has never been re-
moved ; while, as a second way of accounting
for them, they are regarded as survivals of
the grand flora of some former geological age.
A New Race of Ancient Egyptians. The
continued explorations of Mr. W. Flinders
Petrie on the west side of the Nile below
Thebes have resulted in the discovery of
what he regards as a hitherto unknown race
of men, who probably lived in Egypt about
five thousand years ago. In the near neigh-
borhood of sites yielding potteries of the
best known Egyptian dynasties he found
the remains of a town, with cemeteries of
which about two thousand graves were ex-
cavated, in which there was not a single
Egyptian object or the trace of the observ-
ance of any Egyptian custom. The bodies,
instead of being mummified or buried at full
length, were contracted, with heads to the
south and faces to the west. They were of
fine physiognomy, without prognathism ; of
remarkable stature some being more than
six feet high and of development of legs
indicating a hill race ; with brown and wavy
but not crisp hair, aquiline nose, and long,
pointed head. No hieroglyphics or char-
acters suggesting writing were found, be-
yond a few scratches on vases. Their ves-
sels were perfect in form all hand-made
yet their art was of the rudest. A picture
in monochrome on one of the vases repre-
sents a boat with two cabins, rowed with
oars, bearing the ensign of five hills, with
ranges of hills on either side, and ostriches
striding along. A game of ninepins was
found, in which the pieces are formed of
stone, with balls of syenite about the size of
peas. The people used gi-een paint made
from malachite for marking their eyes, and
many of the slate palettes on which this
was ground were found. Their funeral rites
appear to have included a kind of ceremonial
cannibalism. They are supposed to have
lived about the time from the seventh to
the ninth dynasties. In the same region, in
a spot exactly resembling the river gravels
of England and France, large quantities of
similar palaeolithic remains were found.
Signs of tlie Times. In an article under
the above title, by Edward Atkinson, in the
August number of the Engineering Magazine,
is the following comment on the recent cele-
bration of the opening of the ship canal at
Kiel: "There is something rather grotesque
in the picture which the nations have made
at the opening of the ship canal at Kiel.
The object of that canal is mainly to pro-
mote commerce, to facilitate exchange, to
bring to the occupants of a rather poor soil
in middle Europe a necessary supply of food
and fibres from other parts of the world, and
also a necessary supply of the crude products
of the non-machine-using nations for conver-
sion into finished goods for home use and ex-
port. In order to celebrate the opening of
this peaceful way for commerce, there gath-
ered a collection of naval bulldogs, each for
