FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
285
the time muzzled, but in many instances with
growl barely suppressed. In a rough-and-
ready way one may estimate the cost of this
fleet of one hundred great armor-clad ships
of war, with twenty-five lesser vessels, at ap-
proximately $200,000,000, which is probably
four or five times the cost of the peaceful
water-way, the opening of which they were
called together to celebrate. The United
States was represented by one battle ship
and, I believe, by one of our two ' commerce-
destroyers,' so called. The two armored
ships so named cost nearly $7,000,000 a
sum nearly equal to the entire endowment of
Harvard University while the annual ex-
pense of keeping the two in commission is
nearly as great as the pay roll of the same
university. The only commerce of any im-
portance upon which these destructive ships
of war could exert their force would be that
of Great Britain and Germany, our two largest
foreign customers for the excess of our farm
products, which would rot upon our fields
if we could not sell them for export. Any
commentary upon these grotesque conditions
would perhaps be superfluous. As time goes
on this waste of preparation for war will be
stopped in more than one way. First, be-
cause no ship can carry armor which will de-
fend it from the latest type of guns. Next,
because no land force can stand in the face
of guns discharging over six hundred shots
per minute, warranted to kill at more than a
mile. But lastly, as to European states, be-
cause the limit of taxation has been reached.
New taxes can not be invented and new
sources of revenue can not be discovered
which will warrant even the maintenance of
existing armies and navies."
Two Wild Vegetables of Merit. T. W.
Card, of the experiment station at Lincohi,
Nebraska, calls attention, in Garden and
Forest, to two wild vegetables which he
thinks merit the attention of cultivators.
One of these, which is already gathered
from the fields and used to a considerable
extent in the West, is the wild lettuce ; there
are two species common on the plains, Lac-
tuca canadensis and L. Ludoviciana. They
are chiefly used for greens, and fill an im-
portant place for this purpose, as they come
in advance of spinach, and when no other
greens are offered in the market. The other
plant is the ground plum or bulfalo pea of
the plains (Astragalus cransicarjjus). This is
found abundantly in the draws or low
grounds of the unbroken prairie. The
plant is a perennial, apparently perfectly
hardy, and very productive. The fruit re-
sembles gooseberries in size and general
appearance. It is borne in numerous clus-
ters, very early in the season. When cooked
like string beans the fruit forms a very ac-
ceptable dish. The chief point which recom-
mends the plant for cultivation is the time
at which the fruits are ready for use, some
of them ripening as early as May 7th.
Protecting Iron and Steel against Rnst.
Gesner's method, described in La Revue
Scientifiqne, consists in forming on the sur-
face of the metal a double carbide of hydro-
gen and iron. A bar thus coated can be
bent through an angle of forty-five degrees
without disturbing the layer. The process
is as follows : The surface to be coated is
first thoroughly cleaned from rust. A couple
of gas retorts are placed alongside each other
and raised to a temperature of from 600
to 700 C. The articles to be treated are
then placed in these retorts for about twenty
minutes, after which a current of hydrogen
is passed through the retorts for forty-five
minutes. A small quantity of naphtha is
then introduced, the supply being main-
tained for ten minutes. It is then stopped,
the current of hydrogen being kept up fif-
teen minutes longer, when it is stopped and
the retorts are allowed to cool to 400 C.,
and when this temperature is reached the
doors can be opened and the finished prod-
uct removed. The coating thus given has a
bluish color.
Tlie Microscope in Metallurgy. Micro-
metallography the examination of samples
of iron and steel by looking at etched or
polished sections through a microscope is
rapidly taking its place in the routine work
of metallurgical laboratories. It has been
developed from petrography. Dr. Sorby, an
Englishman, who in 1864 submitted some
photographs of opaque sections of various
kinds of iron and steel to the British Asso-
ciation, seems to have been among the first
workers in this field. The process of pre-
paring the specimens is complicated and
