286
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
somewhat tedious, but the results fully repay
the worker. By means of these methods
steel has been found to contain five main
constituents: Pure iron, ferrite\ carbide of
iron, cementite; sorbite, of uncertain compo-
sition ; martensite and froosfife; the latter
marks the transition of soft iron into hard-
ened steel. Sorbite, f roostite, and martensite
appear to be solidified solutions of various
forms of carbon in divers forms of iron, for
it seems clear that metallographic work on
steel brings into prominence the existence
of allotropic forms of iron. An exhaustive
monograph on the progress of micro-metal-
lography during the past ten years, by M. F.
Osmond, may be found in the Bulletin de la
Societe d' Encouragement, vol. x, p. 480, 1895.
Audibility of Fog-horn Signals. Some
time ago there appeared a description of
some experiments which went to prove that
around each siren there is a zone, about one
and a half nautical miles broad, within which
fog signals can not be heard, although they
are distinctly heard outside that zone. These
statements have been recently confirmed by
a series of experiments which are noted in
Nature. In one of these the vessel steamed
with the wind straight toward the lightship
from a distance of four and a half nautical
miles. At a distance of two miles and three
quarters the sound became faintly audible,
and suddenly increased in loudness at two
miles and a half, retaining the same inten-
sity up to two miles distance. From one and
three quarters to one and a half mile the note
was scarcely audible, but then it immediately
increased to such an extent that it appeared
to originate in the immediate neighborhood
of the vessel. The steamer at this point re-
versed its course, and the fluctuation over this
part of the course was found to be the same,
except that it was even more strongly marked.
The vessel was again reversed, and at half a
mile the sound disappeared entirely, to reap-
pear at a quarter of a mile from the light-
ship; after which it gradually and steadily
increased in intensity until the latter was
reached.
The Ideals of Modern Medicine. We
take the following from President Sir T.
Russell Reynolds's address before the recent
meeting of the British Medical Association
in London: "The outcome of what I have
been saying is this : that the scattered frag-
ments of knowledge and guesses at truth of
many years have been gathered into a focus
during the past twenty -five years ; that the
vegetable life extracting from the mineral
world the materials it needs for growth and
production of powerful agencies for good in
the form of food and medicines, and for evil
in the form of poisons, has given itself up
to the growth of animal life, with its much
more complex organs, and for cure of ills
once thought beyond the reach of human
aid ; but that, thanks to man's scientific ar-
dor and industry, it has again shown itself
to be our servant, our helper, and our pro-
tector. These are not dreams of the study,
they are facts of the laboratory and of daily
life ; and in using that word ' life ' again, I
must endeavor to emphasize still more forci-
bly upon you my urgent belief that it is to
living agencies and their employment that
we must look for help in the care of infancy,
the conduct of education moral, mental,
and physical the training up of character,
as well as of limbs ; that it is the guidance
of living functions, in the choice of living
occupations, be they either of hard work or
of amusement. It is to these we must ap-
peal if we would see the mens sana in corpore
sano ; and then it will be to these that we
may confidently look for help, when the in-
roads of age or of disease are at hand, often
to cure us of our trouble ; or if not, to give
us rest and peace."
City GOTernment. The corporation of the
city of London is one of the most ancient
bodies in England, and its record shows a
constant succession of capable men and a
uniform policy. It was in existence before
Parliament, and it has seen the downfall of
more than one royal house. The secret of
its success has lain in the fact that muni-
cipal dignity has always been confided to the
hands of men of business, who had shown
their capacity to manage private affairs of
great magnitude before they were intrusted
with those of their neighbors. Their training
had been such as to remove them as far from
the hide-bound conservatism of the official
as from the destructive reforming energy
of the professional politician. As an in-
stance of the methods employed may be
