14 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
otlier are characterized by a spirit of thrift and a desire for
equitable and low taxes.
Such, then, is the situation which confronts any one who pro-
poses to discuss broadly the great subject of taxation with a view
of effecting reforms in the existing system. It exacts, on the
part of him that is to attempt it with any prospect of success, a
familiarity with theory, not merely gained from the study of
books, but theory based on extensive practical administration.
It requires, on the part of both the teacher and the taught, what
Herbert Spencer has declared to be the conditions of success in
all departments of scientific research, namely, " an honest recep-
tivity and willingness to abandon all preconceived notions, how-
ever cherished, if they be found to contradict the truth."
4
PRIMIGENIAL SKELETONS, THE FLOOD, AND THE
GLACIAL PERIOD.
By H. p. FITZGERALD MAREIOTT.
PART I. THE PALEOLITHIC SKELETONS OF MENTONE.
IN the rocks near Mentone that go by the name of Les Bocliers
Rouges * there was discovered, on the 12th of January, 1894,
another human skeleton. It is that of a man about six feet two
inches in height, but, owing to the head having been crushed, ac-
curate measurement is difficult. M. Adolphe Mdgret,t however,
has calculated the height of the living man to have been 1*984 me-
tre. This he does by multiplying the length of the phalangine I
of the medial finger, 0'031 metre, by 64, a method that in every
case proves successful. The first account of this find, in the local
Anglo-American, mentioned two skeletons, and in spite of it be-
ing now affirmed that only one was discovered, we rather suspect
that there was truth in the first statement, especially as the leg
bones of another are admitted to have been found beside it ; and
all the more, knowing as we do how the skeleton of 1872 was ac-
companied by two others, the existence of which was kept a secret,
as they were too imperfect for the scientific discoverer to describe
conscientiously at the time. This skeleton of 1894, as we must
hereafter call it, lay on its back, inclining to the left side, the body
slightly bent, the legs stretched and crossed below the knee, the
right arm bent and with the hand lying open over the left breast.
* In dialect their name is Baousse-Rousse, the Italian for which is Baize Rosse.
f Etude de Mensurations sur rHomme prehistorique, Nice, 1894.
\ La phalangine is probably the smallest and last of the phalanges of the medius.
