THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 291
ried, and for family reasons preferred to live on the Continent,
spending most of his time in France, Italy, and Germany ; in his
constant journeys he made observations on the climate, physical
features, geology, and industries of the regions visited. He formed
collections of minerals, and, for convenience of analyzing them,
traveled with a portable chemical laboratory.
Living on the Continent, he acquired a cosmopolitan character,
and formed acquaintance with the leading savants of the time ;
among his friends and corrrespondents were Gay-Lussac, the
chemist ; Haiiy, the mineralogist ; Arago, the astronomer ; Biot,
the physicist, of France ; Berzelius, the chemist, of Sweden ; and
Davy, Black, Wollaston, Cavendish, Thomson, Smithson Tennant,
chemical philosophers, of England. If it is " by a man's position
among his contemporaries and competitors that his work may
most justly be appraised," Smithson's scientific attainments must
be rated very highly.
Between the years 1701 and 1825 Smithson published twenty-
seven scientific papers, of which eight appeared in the Philosoph-
ical Transactions of the Royal Society and nineteen in Thomson's
Annals of Philosophy. These memoirs embrace a wide range of
research : the first deals with the curious deposit in bamboo called
tdbaslieer, which he proved to be " siliceous earth " ; the second
was a " Chemical Analysis of Some Calamines," in which he estab-
lished a new mineral species, afterward named smithsonite by
Beudant (1832). The larger number of his papers deal with
chemistry applied to mineral analysis, but he also discussed the
nature of vegetables and insects, the origin of the earth, the crystal-
line form of ice, and an improved method of making coffee. An
examination of these contributions to knowledge shows that he was
no mere dilettante in science, and that he carried on his researches
in a philosophic spirit for the sake of truth ; all his writings ex-
hibit keen perception, concise language, and accurate expression.
Of Smithson's personal traits and social character very little is
known ; his dislike of publicity, his natural reserve, as well as
his residence in foreign countries, separated him from friends
who might have given us particulars. It is said that he fre-
quently narrated an anecdote of himself which illustrated his re-
markable skill in analyzing minute quantities of substances, an
ability which rivaled that of Dr. Wollaston. Happening to ob-
serve a tear gliding down a lady's cheek, he endeavored to catch
it on a crystal vessel; one half the tear-drop escaped, but he sub-
jected the other half to reagents, and detected what was then
called microcosmic salt, muriate of soda, and some other saline
constituents held in solution.
James Smithson died at the age of sixty-four years, on the 27th
of June, 1829, at Genoa, Italy* and was buried in the Protestant
