THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 293
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men."
The motives which prompted James Smithson to bequeath his
fortune to the young republic across the seas are not certainly-
known. In the year 1S18 (or 1810) he had some misunderstanding
with the Royal Society, owing to tlieir refusal to print one of his
papers, and from that date he published exclusively in Thomson's
Annals of Philosophy ; it is said that prior to this difficulty he
had intended to make the Royal Society his legatee. Having,
however, abandoned that plan, he seems to have perceived with a
prophetic eye the " germs of rising grandeur " in the free Amer-
ican nation, and to have felt a desire to promote the increase and
diffusion of knowledge in the New World.
Whether he was more friendly to republicanism than to mon-
archy, as some have claimed, is not certain ; at all events, by select-
ing the United States of America as the depository of his trust
"he paid the highest compliment to its intelligence and integrity,
and testified his confidence in republican institutions and his faith
in their perpetuity."
In attempting to fathom the thoughts which directed Smith-
son's attention to the United States we are met by the surprising
fact that he had not a single correspondent or scientific friend in
Anaerica, nor did he write a line in any of his papers indicating
appreciation of the republic.
Mr. Hungerford survived his uncle only six years, during
which he received the benefits of the will ; he led an aimless, rov-
ing life on the Continent, and died at Pisa, Italy, June 5, 1835,
under the name of Eunice de la Batut, this being the surname of
his stepfather, a Frenchman whom Hungerford's mother had
married. By this death the United States became entitled to the
estate. The first intimation received by the Government to this
effect arrived in a communication dated July 28, 1835, from the
charge d'affaires of the United States at London to the Secretary
of State, transmitting a letter from the firm of attorneys who rep-
resented the bankers holding the estate in trust. The estate was
estimated at 1U0,()0(). In December, President Andrew Jackson
sent to Congress a message setting forth the facts in the case and
asking for authority to accept the trust ; in July, Congress passed
an act authorizing the President to appoint an agent to prosecute
in the Court of Chancery the right of the United States to the
legacy. This simple measure was not, however, secured without
great difficulty, being opposed by several active Congressmen.
Mr. W. C. Preston, of South Carolina, thought the donation had
been made partly with a view to immortalize the donor, and it
was " too cheap a way of conferring immortality " ; and Mr. John
C. Calhoun, of the same State, was of the opinion that it was be-
