294
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
neath tlie dignity of the United States to receive presents of this
kind from any one. The bill was, however, supported by the
Committee of the Judiciary, to which the matter had been re-
ferred, and advocated by Mr, James Buchanan, of Pennsylvania,
Mr. Robert J. Walker, of Mississippi, and Mr. John Davis, of
Massachusetts.
Under this act President Jackson appointed the Hon. Richard
Rush, of Pennsylvania, agent to prosecute the claims of the United
States. The selection of Mr, Rush was a very happy one : he had
been Comptroller of the Treasury, Attorney-General, minister
to England, and minister to
France. He displayed integ-
rity and ability, and a per-
sistence which accomplished
the end in view with unex-
ampled dispatch. Beyond the
usual delays incident to court
procedure, Mr. Rush met with
no difficulties save one. Ma-
dame Theodore de la Batut,
the mother of Mr. Hunger-
ford, presented a claim for a
life interest in the estate of
Smithson ; and to expedite
matters Mr. Rush agreed to a
compromise, granting an an-
nuity, which she enjoyed un-
til her death in 1861.* As
soon as the securities were
transferred to Mr. Rush, he
converted them into gold and
shipped it to New York on
the Mediator ; accompanying the treasure were three boxes con-
taining the personal effects of the testator, including his collection
of minerals, library, etc. The money arising from the Smithson
bequest was at first invested in State stocks, and on December 10,
1838, President Martin Van Buren announced to Congress the
receipt and disposition of the legacy of James Smithson, In 1841,
Arkansas having failed to pay interest, through the efforts of
Hon. J. Q. Adams the funds were transferred to the Treasury of
the United States, to bear interest at six per cent per annum.
Three years had been consumed in securing the legacy, and
seven and a half years more were destined to pass before Congress
Joseph Henry.
* The principal retained in Entjland to meet this annuity was paid over to the Smith-
sonian Institution in 18(14. This residuary legacy amounted to $26,210 (gold).
