THE ISMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 297
But all attempts to merge the interests of the two bodies failed,
partly owing to objections to placing the management of the new
institution in the hands of a private corporation ; meanwhile the
National Institution changed its name to National Institute, but
after a flourishing existence of five years it lost its power.
Although much deprecated at the time, the slowness with
which Congress acted in disposing of Smithson's legacy had its
advantages : weak schemes were exposed, public opinion was edu-
cated, and the judgment of Congress itself was elevated by the
prolonged discussions. The broad provisions of the will, open to
the charge of vagueness, gave scope to the variety of views we
have named and furnished ground for the delay. It is interesting
to note that the act creating the Smithsonian Institution, adopted
August 10, 1846, embodies nearly all the best features of the nu-
merous schemes proposed during the ten years which had elapsed.
The act of incorporation was the work of many minds and to
some extent a compromise ; no one person should receive credit
for its provisions, but mention should be made of Senator Benja-
min Tappan, Robert Dale Owen, and William J. Hough, who
drew up the bill eventually agreed upon. Stripped of legal ver-
biage and condensed, the bill is as follows :
Title. A bill to establish the " Smithsonian Institution " for
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.
Preamble : Rehearses the facts as to Smithson's bequest and
the acceptance by the United States, and directs that the Presi-
dent and Vice-President of the United States, the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the
Secretary of the Navy, the Postmaster-General, the Attorney-
General, the Chief Justice, and the Commissioner of the Patent
Office of the United States, and the Mayor of the city of Wash-
ington, during the time for which they shall hold their respect-
ive offices, and such other persons as they may elect honorary
members, be constituted an " establishment " by the name of the
Smithsonian Institution.
Section 3 provides for investment of the Smithson fund and
payment of the interest thereon ; also appropriates a sum for erec-
tion of a suitable building.
Section 3 provides that the business of said institution shall be
conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents to be
composed of the Vice-President of the United States, the Chief
Justice, and the Mayor of the city of Washington, together with
three members of the Senate and three members of the House of
Representatives, and six other persons, two of whom shall be
members of the National Institute. The act then provides for
the manner of appointment, the time of service, the filling of va-
cancies, the election of a Chancellor and Secretary by the Board of
