THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 299
Regents and of an executive committee, as well as for the pay-
ment of money needed for conducting the institution ; also, an
annual report to be submitted to Congress.
Section 4 provides for the selection of a suitable site for a
building.
Section o provides for the erection of a building of plain and
durable materials, of sufficient size for rooms to contain objects
of natural history, including a geological and mineralogical cabi-
net, a chemical laboratory, a library, a gallery of art, and the neces-
sary lecture rooms ; also provides for the expense of this building.
Section 6 enacts that in proportion as suitable arrangements
can be made for their reception all objects of art and of foreign
and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants,
geological and mineralogical specimens, belonging or hereafter to
belong to the United States which may be in the city of Wash-
ington shall be arranged as best to facilitate their examination
and study in the building to be erected ; also new specimens to
be so arranged ; also minerals, books, and other property of James
Smithson to be preserved in the institution.
Section 7 enacts that the Secretary of the Board of Regents
shall take charge of the building and contents, shall discharge the
duties of librarian and of keeper of the museum, and may employ
assistants, and provides for their compensation.
Section 8 provides for meetings at which the President or Vice-
President of the United States shall preside, and ap[)ropriates a
sum not exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars annually for the
formation of a library.
Section 9 enacts that moneys accrued as interest upon the fund,
not herein appropriated, may be disposed of by the Board of Re-
gents as they direct.
Section W enacts that one copy of all copyrighted books, en-
gravings, maps, etc., shall be sent to the Librarian of the Smith-
sonian Institution, and one to the Librarian of Congress.
Section 11 gives to Congress the right to amend any of the
provisions of this act.
This act was signed by President James K. Polk, August 10,
1846. It embodies the features of a national museum, a library,
with provisions for copyrighted books, an art gallery, and lecture
rooms, x^resumably for scientific courses though no special provi-
sion for them is made. It places the executive work in the hands
of a Secretary, and the general oversight with care of finances in
the power of a Board of Regents, which board includes the highest
officials in the Government of the United States.
The opponents of this bill, though defeated, still endeavored to
change its character. Eighteen months after its passage, Andrew
Johnson, of Tennessee, introduced a bill to change the Smith-
