300
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Spencek F. Ba.ird.
sonian Institution to " Washington University, for the Benefit of
Indigent Children of the District of Columbia," and spoke in
favor of remodeling the en-
tire plan so as to convert the
institution into a university
to include the manual-labor
feature, mechanic arts, and
agriculture. Mr. Embree
wanted at the same time to
graft upon the institution a
department for collecting
and arranging information
on agriculture, common-
school education, political
economy, and the useful arts
and sciences, which infor-
mation shall be published
and circulated gratuitously
' among the people.
These attempts to tinker
J with the act of incorpora-
tion received their quietus
on August 8, 184:8, when the
House of Representatives adopted a resolution to the effect that
it is inexpedient to change and modify the act in the manner pro-
posed. In 1878, and again in 1894, the act of incorporation was
revised and somewhat simplified ; the two Regents were no longer
to be chosen from members of the National Institute, which
meanwhile had died, and other slight changes were made.
Congress having appointed Regents, they organized by electing
a Chancellor and temporary secretary. The act of incorporation
placed great responsibilities in the secretary's office, and the
Regents felt that the advancement of the proper interests of the
trust made it essential that the Secretary of the Smithsonian In-
stitution should be a man possessing weight of character and a
high grade of talent ; that he also possess eminent scientific and
general acquirements ; that he be capable of advancing science and
promoting letters by original search and effort, and well qualified
to act as a respected channel of communication between the insti-
tution and scientific and literary individuals in this and foreign
countries. To this important position the Regents invited Prof.
Joseph Henry, of the College of New Jersey, widely known in
both hemispheres by his splendid discoveries in electro-magnet-
ism and universally respected as a man by all who knew him.
His acceptance of the secretaryship was a most fortunate event
for the institution, insuring its high scientific standard, its wise
