PRIMIGENIAL SKELETONS. 15
while tlie left hand was supporting the side of the head. The
teeth are large and strong, but much used ; the front teeth are
nearly as thick as ordinary molars. Near the right hand was a
crystal of quartz, similar to those found on the rocks around to
this day, but pointed at one end, and about two inches long and
an inch and a half thick ; some suppose this to be the top of the
handle of a knife. The head was ornamented with chaplets of
deer teeth and shells. By the remains and on the bones is seen
the same deposit of red ochre that was noticed on all the other
skeletons. Several slabs of stone were found, which seemed to
have formed part of a dolmen. The skeleton, however, was not
resting in a palaeolithic stratum, though it is considered that these
remains are pre-neolithic. A few metres below it, however, in
a stratum that is decidedly palaeolithic, were found several huge
mammoth bones the hip-joint head of the thigh bone (femur)
and the socket of the pelvis : heneath these was found the remains
of a fire a line of black in the stratum and a large flint instru-
ment, thus proving that man was contemporary with the mam-
moth.
The length, or depth, of this cave was once at least forty-five
metres ; and its mouth appeared smaller when it opened nearer
the sea, before quarrying destroyed it, and, in particular, removed
nearly the whole of its eastern side. At present its depth is about
twenty metres, though the end is but a mere crack. It now ap-
pears as a huge fissure that rends the face of the lower end of the
Rochers Rouges for fifteen metres to nearly the height of the cliff ;
but from the sloping and irregular level of its own earth floor,
which rises several yards above that of the base of the cliff, it is
only thirty or forty feet high, and narrows at the top to a mere
crack. In width it is about four metres, diminishing inward.
Within the dark brown mold filling the lowest levels of this
cave, which for facility of reference is called No. 5, were found
also the skeletons of 1884 and 1892.
The rocks in which these human remains, bones of animals,
and flint instruments have from time to time been discovered are
situated at the east end of Mentone, and extend toward the sea,
which washes their rough rocky beach ; they rise on the other
side of the little stream of the St. Louis ravine that divides France
from Italy, and are therefore on Italian soil. Round their base runs
the narrow old Roman road, which crosses a little bridge of the
same date, immediately after rounding the corner. These ruddy
colored cliffs are composed of the secondary cretaceous limestone,
and contain many crevices and small caverns, in which, mixed
with the softer earth covering the floor to many yards in depth,
have been found from time to time mammalian bones, with shells
and Crustacea, imbedded in places in hard sand and calcareous
