THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
301
and economical administration, and its superior reputation at
home and abroad. Henry's Programme of Organization, presented
to the Board of Regents December 8, 1847, is a model of skillful
analytical statement, proposing plans for the increase of knowl-
edge and its diffusion among men ; in it he laid down broad lines
of action and established the foundations on which the existing
edifice stands. Henry devoted the rest of his life, thirty-three
years, to the development of this programme, and the institution
owes to him an everlasting debt of gratitude for his enlightened,
pure, and able administration of the trust.
After the plans of Mr. James Renwick, Jr., for a Norman
building, had been accepted, its erection in the Mall was con-
ducted slowly, being completed in 1855, at an expense of about
three hundred and fourteen thousand dollars. Meanwhile pru-
dent economy in expenditures enabled Henry to add one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars of accrued interest to the original fund.
A library was begun by ex-
change and purchase, and
materials for a museum col-
lected and housed. Besides
these interests, the institu-
tion adopted the plan of pro-
moting original research by
assisting men of science in
their labors ; at the same
time series of investigation
were instituted, explorations
conducted, and the results of
all these endeavors were pub-
lished and distributed to all
the learned societies and im-
portant libraries throughout
the world.
Whenever a man was
found capable of adding to
the sum of human knowl-
edge, the institution assisted
him by supplying books not
otherwise attainable, instru-
ments of research, specimens of materials, and objects under in-
vestigation, and in some instances special grants of money were
made for personal expenses. The specimens in all branches of
natural history were not confined to the glass cases of the museum,
but freely loaned to men engaged in special lines of research ; and
if the specimens required were not on hand, the institution under-
took to obtain and to supply them, the only return asked for being
S. p. Langley.
