3o8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
the creation of supervisory districts and the appointment of
supervisors ; the origination of the use of stamps for the collec-
tion of taxes on distilled spirits, fermented liquors, tobacco, and
the sales of stockbrokers (the last in place of a general tax of one
twentieth of one per cent on sales) ; and the creation and organi-
zation of the Bureau of Statistics as a branch of the national
Treasury. These modifications brought the internal revenue du-
ties within a reasonable compass, introduced systems where the
want of it was working mischief, and by their ready application
in administration reconciled the people to a maintenance of im-
portant sources of revenue and a continuance of taxes, which have
by their stability and steady increase enabled the Government
to meet financial exigencies otherwise awkward and dangerous.
The service thus rendered met with recognition at the time both
in and out of Congress, and was strongly indorsed by those most
interested the head of the Treasury and the industries taxed.*
The work of taking down the vast and complicated structure
of internal taxation, which had been built up during the war,
having been once seriously entered upon by Congress (in 1866),
it was prosecuted so vigorously that in the comparatively short
space of three years the aggregate annual receipts from such
taxes were reduced from $310,906,000 in 1866 to $160,039,000 in
1869 a reduction of $150,865,000 and to $102,644,000 in 1872, a
further reduction of $57,395,000 ; while the sources of revenue,
the annual receipts from each one of which were specifically
reported, were reduced from about two hundred and seventy-
five in 1866 to nominally sixty- six in 1872; but practically to
three distilled spirits, fermented liquors, and tobacco the re-
ceipts from which alone in 1893 were $150,865,000 as compared
with $91,464,000 in 1872. It should, however, be noted that this
remarkable increase of revenue, coincident with a large reduction
in the number of taxed articles, was due mainly to an increase of
consumption consequent upon an increase of population during
the period under consideration (26,230,000) rather than to any
* " I do not believe that any man appointed by the Government in the civil war has
done for his country more work, and more valuable work, than David A. Wells. Into the
financial chaos resulting from the war he threw tho whole weight of a strong, clear mind,
guided by an honest heart, and he has done more, in my judgment, to bring order out of
chaos than any one man in the United States." (SpcecJi of General James A. Garfield,
Member of Congress, United States House of Bepreseyitatives, July 13, 1868 )
" There are few of my oflScial acts that I look upon with more satisfaction than the ap-
pointment of David A. Wells to be Revenue Commissioner. All the reports that were made
by him exhibited the most careful, painstaking, and intelligent investigation. In clearness
and accuracy of statement, and in logical force, they have not been surpassed on either side
of the Atlantic. Their ability was admitted, even by those who disagreed with the writer
in his conclusions.'''' (Men and Measures of Half a Century, by Hugh McCulloch, Secretary of
the Treasury during the Administrations of Fresidcrds Lincoln, Johnson, and Arthur.)
