PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 309
increase in the rate of taxes imposed upon the remaining sources
after 1872.
Of many other curious and instructive economic experiences,
consequent upon the rapid and radical changes in the fiscal policy
of the United States during the period under consideration, the
following seem especially worthy of notice : The first abatement or
repeal of internal taxation on various articles after the war to the
extent of about fifty millions in 18G6 was not attended with any
general and immediate reduction in the prices of the articles re-
lieved, corresponding to the reduction of taxation, but with rather
an increase of prices. The explanation of this circumstance was,
that the continuance of the heavy war taxation, for a period after
the extensive war demands of the Government for various com-
modities had ceased, had diminished their production to a point
below what would have been the normal consumption of the
country ; and that, therefore, prices increased concurrently with
the abatement of taxes and a renewal of demand. Such a result
was, however, but temporary, and the condition of affairs was
soon reversed. The supply of manufactured products quickly be-
came equal to or exceeded demand. The price of products fell
faster than the price of either labor or capital^ and taxation, which
formerly had been paid wholly from profit, now fell mainly upon
capital. The general result was a year (1867) of great industrial
and commercial depression.
The enlarged use of stamps as machinery for the collection of
taxes, and their novel application to fermented liquors and dis-
tilled spirits, were attended with very striking results. In the
case of fermented liquors (beer), it was established almost beyond
doubt by the Revenue Commission that previous to 1866 the Gov-
ernment was defrauded of its legitimate revenue to an extent of
forty per cent, involving an absolute annual loss of about $6,400,000.
The adoption, with no little hesitation by Congress in 1866, of the
principle, that the payment of the tax on this commodity should be
effected by the purchase and affixing a stamp to each barrel sold
and removed from the place of manufacture, with the additional
requirement that the stamp should be canceled by the retailer or
consumer at once, increased the revenue from $3,657,000 in 1865 to
$5,115,000 in 1866 the year of first application and to $5,819,000
in 1867 ; and ever since has proved most effective and satisfactory.
A recommendation to make use of stamps for the collection of
taxes on tobacco was acceded to by Congress in respect to smoking
tobacco and snuff, but was refused in respect to chewing tobacco,
cigarettes, and cigars ; in the latter case on the assumption that
it was impracticable to affix an adhesive paper stamp on the body
of a cigar, while the " trade," not long afterward, and at its own
volition, demonstrated its entire feasibility. Had the recommen-
