312 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and a consequent very large extension of the sphere of partici-
pants in the resulting profits.
In short, all the available evidence indicates that the profits
realized by distillers, dealers, and speculators, through Congres-
sional legislation having reference to the taxation of distilled
spirits from July 1, 1862, to January 1, 1865 a period of two and
a half years and exclusive of any gains accruing from evasions
of taxes, and with every allowance for overestimates, must have
approximated $100,000,000.
After the establishment of the two-dollar rate on the 1st of
January, 1865, there was again a period of inactivity on the part
of those interested in the manufacture of distilled spirits. The
stocks on hand, manufactured in anticipation of the advances in
rates, were very large, and, the markets being over-supplied, there
was little legitimate inducement for activity on the part of dis-
tillers. The profits realized or made prospectively certain had
been, moreover, enormous, and no further advance in the rate of
tax could be anticipated. Under such circumstances there was an
apparent disposition on the part of manufacturers and speculators
to wait and see what developments in legislation and business
would follow the termination of the war in favor of the Union,
which was then everywhere recognized as approximately certain.
These developments were not long in manifesting themselves.
The tax of two dollars per proof gallon (amounting to more
than 1,500 per cent on the average cost of production) and the
enormous profits contingent upon the evasion of the law, coupled
with the abundant opportunity which the law through its imper-
fections, and the vast territorial area of the country, offered for
evasion, created a temptation which it was impossible for human
nature as ordinarily constituted to resist. This view was taken
by the Revenue Commission in a report to Congress through the
Secretary of the Treasury in February, 1866 ; and the chairman of
the commission, after a thorough investigation of the subject and
the collection and presentation of a large amount of evidence, ex-
pressed the opinion that the attempt to collect a two-dollar tax
was utterly impracticable, and that the longer it was retained the
less would be the revenue and the greater the corruption. He also
coupled this opinion with a recommendation that a tax of fifty
cents per proof gallon, with a judicious license system for recti-
fiers and dealers, be substituted as likely to be most productive of
revenue and most efficient for the prevention of illicit distilling
and other revenue evasions.
This report, although attracting much attention by reason of
the singular revenue experiences of the preceding four years
which it detailed (and which the public, with its thought concen-
trated on the results of the war, had in a great degree overlooked).
