PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 317
lessons deducible from it, which may in brief be summarized as
follows :
Whenever a government imposes a tax on any product of in-
dustry so high as to sufficiently indemnify and reward an illicit or
illegal production of the same, then such product will be illicitly
or illegally manufactured ; and when that point is reached, the
losses and penalties consequent upon detection and conviction
no matter how great may be the one or how severe the other will
be counted in by the offenders as a part of the necessary expenses
of their business ; and the business, if forcibly suppressed in one
locality, will inevitably be renewed and continued in some other.
It is therefore matter of the first importance for every govern-
ment in framing laws for the assessment and collection of taxes to
endeavor to determine, not only for fiscal but also for moral pur-
poses, when the maximum revenue point in the case of each tax is
reached, and to recognize that in going beyond that point the gov-
ernment " overreaches " or cheats itself.
Obviously those who in the past have shaped the policy of the
United States in respect to the taxation of distilled spirits for the
purpose of revenue have, for the most part, never studied this as-
pect of the case or cared to encourage any one to do so ; but, on
the contrary, as has been somewhat humorously expressed, " they
have held out to the citizen, on the one hand, a temptation to vio-
late the law too great for human nature as ordinarily constituted
to resist, and in the other writs for personal arrest and seizure of
property, and, thus equipped, have announced themselves ready
for business."
The data ofiBcially collected and reported by the Internal Rev-
enue Department of the United States Treasury furnish the only
reliable basis for obtaining approximately correct answers to the
following questions : 1. To what extent, through a well-considered
system of taxation, can the manufacture and sale of distilled
spirits be made available as sources of national revenue ? 2. What
has been and is the probable per capita and aggregate annual con-
sumption of this class of spirituous liquors by the people of the
United States ? The first of these questions is eminently perti-
nent to the legislator ; the second, to the student and advocate of
social reform.
The experience derived from the taxation of distilled spirits
previous to 1869 by the Federal authorities was so unnatural and, as
it were, spasmodic as to debar its use for the determination of any
general or average conclusions, and limits inquiry to the results
which followed in subsequent years (1870-1894), under lower and
more rational rates of taxation, and a more efficient and intelligent
fiscal administration. And for the jJurpose of making a clear ex-
hibit of these, attention is asked to the following table (prepared
