PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 319
under a seventy and ninety cent rate. Sucli a result is undoubt-
edly referable in the main to the economic law that a reduction
in the price of a commodity encourages its consumption (in this
instance for industrial as well as stimulant purposes), and in a
degree to the fact that a fifty-cent tax, with its accompaniment
of stringent penalties, greatly diminished the incentive for illicit
production. A wonderfully striking illustration of the strength
of temptation for the evasion of the revenue created by the pre-
vious high taxation, which had little other reason than mere sen-
timent for its imposition, is also afforded by the fact that while
the Government in 1872, under a tax of fifty cents per proof gal-
lon, took cognizance of an average annual tax-paid consumption
on the part of the people of the United States of 1"63 gallons per
capita, it was only able to recognize in 1868, under a two-dollar
tax, a similar average annual consumption of about 0"38 proof gal-
lon per capita.
The second point of interest in connection with the foregoing
tabular exhibit is the demonstration it affords of the very curious
variations which occurred in the successive years from 1870 to
1894, inclusive, in the quantity of spirits that annually paid taxes
to the Government, and which may be regarded as constituting
an approximately accurate measure of the average annual per
capita consumption of this commodity by the entire population
of the country. The explanation of such changes is not diflScult.
They are in general unquestionably referable to immediately
antecedent or contemporary changes in the business condition of
the country, which in turn are determinative in a high degree of
the popular ability to consume an article like distilled spirits
of comparatively high cost and largely a luxury, popular tastes
and habits and restrictive moral influences remaining constant.
Thus, passing by the year 1870, in which there was a great in-
crease (from altogether abnormal causes) in the number of gal-
lons produced and made subject to taxation, the increase in the
tax-paid product and in the average per capita consumption dur-
ing the succeeding fiscal years 1872 and 1873, when the business
of the country was fairly prosperous, was regular and not incon-
siderable. The commencement of the next fiscal year (1874) was
signalized by one of the most memorable financial panics in
American history and a general prostration of business, from
which last there was no decided recovery until 1879.
During all this period the domestic production of distilled
spirits of which the Government took cognizance continued to
decline, and the average per capita of consumption touched the
exceedingly low proportions of 1*07 and 1*09 gallons in the fiscal
years of 1878 and 1879 respectively. With a renewal of active
and profitable business throughout the country in 1880, the
