PRIMIGENIAL SKELETONS. ig
of tliem are covered with a red sort of rust, while they lie in a
sepia-colored earth softer than that which is immediately above
and around them in the cave, M, Bonfils explains this rusty color
by the fact that lumps of red ocher have been found near the
skeletons, probably having been obtained from some rocks that
exist not far off ; with this the bodies most probably had been
covered, and the flesh having disappeared, the ocher had settled
and remained on the bones. It is said that around the head of the
man was a circlet of carved reindeer teeth and a chaplet of shells,
and around the necks of all were found necklaces, of course long
since fallen to pieces, formed from the backbones of fish ; these
latter have been strung together on wire. But so many people
claim to have seen the skeletons first and dispute each other's
assertions with regard to these relics found with them that we
only refer to them for what they are worth : certain it is that
circlets of carved reindeer teeth and other objects have been found
in these caves ; all that has been found we have ourself seen, but,
unfortunately, no authoritative person was able to reach the caves
in time to ascertain in exactly what positions these chaplets,
knives, and other objects were found by the peasant Abbo and his
wife, to whose house, not far from the caves, the articles were at
once transported, to be placed with many others which have from
time to time been discovered. These bones and other objects are
here and there tinged with the same ocher rust with which the
skeletons themselves are covered. The outermost skeleton, that
of the man, was lying on its back, the knees slightly bent toward
its left, its arms stretched out by its side. In the left hand was
found a flint blade exactly nine inches long, held loosely, which
proves that once there was a handle of some perishable material.
The woman and the youth had been buried lying on their left
sides, the legs bent slightly at the knee ; the former held in her
left hand, raised beside her face, a smooth, wide, and hollow-
curved blade of flint that lay under the head as if it had been
placed there for it to rest on, while in the right hands of both
these smaller skeletons were said to have been found flint knives,
as in that of the bigger one. Their right arms were bent so that
the hand reached the shoulder. The third, buried between the
man and woman, and whose skull is missing, we have taken to
be that of a tall youth. From the appearance of these skeletons
they seem to have been buried rather than to have been overcome
by some sudden catastrophe, as has sometimes been supposed of
that of 1872, which was very much bent up and leaning on its left
side. Around them, above and below, were the bones of many
extinct species of mammalia huge teeth, teeth of reindeer and of
the Bos iiriinigeniiis and the horse, together with many small
flint instruments ; but these would merely seem to indicate that
