A STUDENT'S RECOLLECTIONS OF HUXLEY. 327
surprise it occasioned in the knowledge that I was from American
soil. No reference to foreign studentship had heretofore been
made, and I was a little puzzled to know what kind of informa-
tion had led to the betrayal of my personality. Considerably
later I learned that a close friend of my father's, the late Prof.
Youmans himself a friend equally to science and to the scientific
student had addressed a personal note to Prof. Huxley, advising
him of my presence and commending me in the usual way to a
kind consideration and to an equally considerate esteem. It was
characteristic of the justness and fairness of the master that this
letter, while it may have paved the way to a more informal ac-
quaintance outside of the class room, in no way influenced favor-
itism within, or saved me from sound criticism of my work when
it merited it. This was not exactly at long intervals, and jDarticu-
larly do I recall the painful awaiting of judgment on a mangled
dissection of the nerves of the frog. "Your blue papers are
where the red should be, and the sympathetic is gone " a piece
of information, the basis of a portion of which had already only
too keenly been realized.
At no time was criticism given in' a way to hurt, and more
commonly encouragement and commendation took the place of
criticism. But a thing had to be really well done to call out
praise, and an exuberance of it rarely broke an echo from the
laboratory walls. On one occasion I was startled by the inquiry
if my drawing a drawing of the division lines in the cells of a
certain water plant was made from the object or from imagina-
tion, an inquiry which threw doubt in my mind as to whether I
was receiving praise or condemnation. The representation was
considered unusually true to Nature, but I was forced to admit
that it was a combined product of the visual and mental eye, and
not a mere transcript of Nature. This explanation was in no way
a satisfaction to Prof. Huxley, who took the opportunity to ad-
monish the class that drawings, however true they may appear
to Nature, are only true when they strictly copy the objects which
they are intended to portray.
Huxley himself was an excellent draughtsman, and it was
frequently remarked of him, as it was also of our own Dr. Leidy,
that had he devoted himself to painting, instead of to science, he
would have forced himself to a position not less prominent as
an artist than that which he occupied as a naturalist. He was
always precise in his drawings on the blackboard, and if he could
not, perhaps, like Prof. Weisbach, of Freiberg, jump to a circle
and punch its middle point with a stub of chalk, he could, appar-
ently without any hesitancy, draw the most complex anatomical
constructions, and in such a way as to make every point clearly
intelligible to the student. It was probably from the father's
