A STUDENT'S RECOLLECTIONS OF HUXLEY. 329
clerical, and have for all time rendered classical that which he
has chosen to put in print.
Contrary to what is generally supposed, Huxley was not a
ready speaker, or perhaps it would be more true to say that his
deliverances were not unaccompanied by stage fright, or a nervous
uneasiness which frequently required for its subjugation a strong
mental eif ort. It was this that told heavily on his health, and
more than once the quiet resolve had been made to forever aban-
don the public platform. I was present on one occasion at a rather
extensive gathering where, following a few after-dinner remarks
by Sir Joseph Hooker, Prof. Tyndall, and Sir Wyville Thomson,
Huxley, contrary to previous agreement, was also called upon for
a few words, and with the pleasing introduction (as nearly as I
can now recall the passage), " There is one among us who, by rea-
son of his witty tongue and ever-readiness, it is a pleasure to call
upon."
Following the applause which greeted his name the mention
of which was unmistakably a disagreeable surprise to the one
more particularly concerned, Huxley took occasion to explain in
emphatic language that were it only generally known how much
of an effort it cost him to speak, his friends would willingly allow
him more peace, and save the lingering wreck of his bodily frame.
This admission which was followed by a short but most happy
ex-tempore utterance appeared to me so strange that I was deter-
mined on the first proper occasion to obtain at first hand its true
meaning. The opportunity presented itself a few days later, im-
mediately after the conclusion of a stirring public address (read
from manuscript) on " Sunday Opening," if by this name we may
designate the liberty of displaying and using on the Sabbath-day
collections of books and paintings, museum and other treasures,
and of listening to scientific discourses. Dean Stanley and one or
two other speakers had preceded him, but manifestly the audience
was waiting for the speaker of the occasion. A more brilliant
and incisive arraignment of those who by legal process attempted
to forever remove from the workingman his one day of self-im-
provement could hardly have been formulated, and the speaker
was greeted with vociferous applause. Meeting him on the way
homeward from the lecture hall, I asked for a significance of the
explanation made a few evenings before at the dinner table, for it
did not seem possible to me that one gifted with such fluent powers
of speech, and backed by an almost unfathomable fund of knowl-
edge, could feel any fear or hesitancy in speaking, no matter what
the occasion. In his answer. Prof. Huxley repeated in substance
what he had before said, only more clearly emphasizing the nerv-
ous fear with which he mounted the platform. He then assured
me that he might have saved himself an African journey, under-
VOL. XLVIII. 24
