330 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
taken for health recuperation, had he abstained from public de-
liverances.
It has been frequently assumed that Huxley cared for little
beyond science, and especially for that side of it which was com-
bative either with the Church or with the State, but nothing
could be further from the truth than the belief that this was in
fact the case. It is perfectly true that Huxley used all the vigor
of speech of which he was capable to emphasize what he consid-
ered to be the proper position of science in any education, and per-
haps he even considered the acquisition of scientific knowledge to
be of more importance than any other form of learning, but he
was always careful to emphasize that education was only such
when it was broad and comprehensive, when it comprised not only
science, but in addition a goodly share of the world's history and
literature. His own resource in the fields of literature (English,
French, German, and Italian) and history was prodigious, and he
rarely was at a loss to instantly take advantage of a citation from
some early scholar to demolish at first or second hand an adver-
sary at arms. When I was in London he was reading, with the
assistance of a friend, Russian, and mainly for the purpose of fully
familiarizing himself with the work of the great anatomist, A.
Kovalewski, whose writings he was seemingly the first to bring
to the critical notice of English-speaking naturalists. It was this
thorough familiarity with what one is almost tempted to call uni-
versal knowledge that made Prof. Huxley such a dreaded foe to
his enemies, and it has well been remarked, " Woe be to him who
attempts to measure arms with such an antagonist ! "
Huxley was a firm believer in thorough knowledge, and he took
no stock in brain-stuffing ; to have known a thing once, and to be
able to put your hand upon it when you again want it, was his
maxim. The opening address delivered by him before the Johns
Hopkins University, in 1876, gives the keynote to his position in
the matter of special training, " Know a thing directly," he often
remarked, " and do not assume that you know more of it by know-
ing around it." He had no patience with those who spoke with a
pseudo-authority begotten of chance, and was bitter in his denun-
ciation of officialism as aif ording a pretext for either defending or
attacking scientific dogma. An interesting anecdote, which Prof.
Huxley himself related to me, shows the occasional happy frame
of mind in which our savomt found himself when he, in turn, was
receiving blows. A prominent bishop of the English Church,
whose name it is not here necessary to mention, had been for some
time endeavoring to smash the Darwinian hypothesis through
some actual researches in zoology which he claimed to have under-
taken. Toward the accomplishment of this laudable effort he
used many pages of the current magazines and equally many
