A STUDENT'S RECOLLECTIONS OF HUXLEY. 331
columns of the daily press, iu each of which the " iindernurse of
Darwinism " came in for an uncommonly large share of ridicule.
Finding that none of these papers brought forth any comment
from Prof. Huxley, their author in a personal letter called his at-
tention to them, at the same time asking to be advised as to what
particular course of reading would most readily enable him to
grapple with the various scientific questions which at that time
agitated the world. Prof. Huxley's full and laconic answer was,
" Take a cockroach and dissect it." No further inquiry came
from that source.
I once found Prof. Huxley much depressed over a small para-
graph which also touched, and in a very depreciatory manner,
the evolutionary hypothesis, which had been contributed to the
daily press by his friend Carlyle. He greatly deplored the reck-
lessness of the utterances contained in the squib, and especially
painful to him was a markedly undignified reference to the one
man for whom Huxley had a greater reverence than for any
other Charles Darwin. To my interrogatory as to whether he
considered it necessary to reply to the paragraph, he promptly
and emphatically answered, " No ! "
Remorseless as Huxley occasionally was in the cold exposition
of the blunders of his colaborers in science, he was usually very
lenient to those who pointed out his own mistakes. I remember
one occasion when a post-graduate student of the Royal School of
Mines, Patrick (now Professor) Geddes, intimated to the professor
that his interpretation of the mechanism of the radula in the
common garden snail, as was set forth in the Anatomy of Inverte-
brated Animals, was not supported by the newer laboratory dis-
sections. Prof. Huxley's response was a request of Mr. Geddes to
try a new dissection ; it was done, and it was found that the pupil
was right and the master wrong. Only once do I recall when a
correction was received with a regret almost akin to displeasure
the case of the Bathybius, the all-pervading protoplasm of the
oceanic deep. When Sir Wyville Thomson separated this sub-
stance as a mineral precipitate, it smashed a thought that had
already become pregnant with English and German naturalists,
and which threatened to become of genuine usefulness in explain-
ing the origin and development of the organic life forms of the
earth.
Among his many eminent scientific contemporaries there were
few for whom Huxley had greater admiration than the German*
morphologist, Gegenbaur, and Karl Vogt ; the latter he regarded
as a tower of strength and in a certain sense a genius. When,
nearly two years after leaving London, I returned to my alma
mater and informed my past master that I had in the mean-
time been enrolled as a student, although in the class of paleon-
