332
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tology instead of zoology, under Vogt, he appeared to be really
pleased, and expressed himself freely on the advantage of being
guided by so eminent an authority and so liberal a thinker as
was the self-imposed exile of the University of Geneva. And in
truth it must be admitted that there was much in Vogt that
reminded me of Huxley. Like the latter, he was fearlessly out-
spoken in his utterances. Witness his tirade against the late
Emperor William of Germany, delivered as a protest against the
expenditure of the state's money on bronze and iron cannon when
it could have been more humanely and profitably used in the
purchase of the then recently discovered second specimen of
AarchcRopteryx that strange fossil hybrid connecting bird and
reptile which has since found its way to the Berlin Museum.
Like his English prototype, Vogt was also an admirable lecturer,
fluent in diction and facile with the crayon, but it can hardly be
claimed that either the quality or the tone of his lectures was
fully representative of the scholarship of their author.
Vogt never allowed the opportunity of a pun to escape him,
and his hons mots were at times hardly more elegant than they
were appropriate; but, for all that, he was very popular, and
equally so with the few women students of his class as with the
men. He spoke in French with a decided German intonation, fre-
quently relieving himself of a sigh brought about by an uncom-
fortably asthmatic condition. His powerful bodily frame, dispro-
portionably shortened through a generous development of tissue
about the equatorial region, was in marked contrast to the tall
and nearly upright carriage of Prof. Huxley, whose slightly stoop-
ing head and shoulders reduced somewhat what might otherwise
have been considered a more than average height. Huxley never
entered the class lecture room except in a dress in which he was
immediately prepared to go to the street ; Vogt rarely appeared
without a coat which did not in one or more places show visible
signs of underlying shirt sleeves. The presence of women in no
way affected his Wohlgefuhl, and in truth it must be said that this
class of students was to him in a measure a blank, as he invari-
ably addressed the class only as " Messieurs."
Among the many warm friends and admirers that Huxley
numbered within the ranks of the scientific fraternity there was
none who was more enthusiastic in his admiration of the great
man than the distinguished comparative anatomist of the Royal
College of Surgeons, the late Prof. Kitchen Parker. An after-
noon and evening spent at the home of this most genial and all-
overflowing host serves my memory as the record of one of the
j)leasantest incidents of my student life in London. Huxley and
Parker had not many years before announced their new classi-
fication of birds worked out conjointly on characters founded
