A STUDENT'S RECOLLECTION'S OF HUXLEY. 333
principally on tlie position and construction of the bones of the
palate and beak and the stir which that radical departure in
classification brought out had not yet subsided. Prof. Parker
was still largely engaged in proving his case, and was naturally,
to use an expression that is less elegant than determining, full of
it. The overjoy ful manner in which he pointed out a confirma-
tory character here and there, or an exception to the rule else-
where, kindled a glowing enthusiasm within the listener to follow
in the line of the master, and a desire to make immediate friends
with basi-sphenoid and pterygoid bones. Drawer after drawer of
neatly prepared bird skulls, colored in correspondence so that
identical or homologous parts could be immediately detected,
were pulled out and hastily scanned over ; but the explanations
that were given, whatever they might have been, were liberally
sprinkled with admiration for the genius of Huxley who first
broke into the method which Parker so successfully elaborated
a second to whom was not to be found in all Britain. I shall not
easily forget the ocular gleam of pleasure, perhaps even delight,
with which Prof. Parker announced dissent on certain anatomical
points from the opinions of his friend and colaborer. The fol-
lowing very graceful tribute to the clearness of Prof. Huxley's
expositions appears in this author's article on Birds, contributed
to the ninth edition of the Eucyclopsedia Britannica (page 717) :
" The writer will often use the very words of Prof. Huxley,
despairing as he does of coming near that excellent writer either
in condensation or order."
Huxley, as is well known, was a master hand in the construc-
tion of the English language. For elegance and force of diction
he had no superior perhaps not even an equal among the writers
of his day, and there are few purely literary men whose produc-
tions maintain so uniformly a high quality of excellence. In
borrowing from the decorative side of language, he never allowed
the embellishment of phrases to interfere with the clear statement
of what he had to convey either by word of mouth or of pen, or to
in any way cloud his meaning. Friends and foes thus knew his
position precisely, and he was always taken on his own recog-
nizance. A strict adherence to the sequence of truth, fact, and a
logical deduction from facts, was his maxim, and it was this that
assured his ground for battle, and carried him triumphantly
through nearly all his combats. As has before been remarked,
Huxley took little stock in brain-stuffing, yet it can in no way be
complained of that his own brain was " of the empty kind." The
range of topics that his conversation touched was almost bewilder-
ing, yet so discreetly was his knowledge dispensed that oftentimes
one assumed that he was making an inquiry, when, in fact, he was
giving the answer to it. Well do I recall a meeting on Brompton
