334 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Road when the conversation almost immediately turned upon
American racing and race horses, a topic on which I was obliged
to confess myself an absolute ignoramus by the side of my inter-
locutor.
A few parting words. In 1893 I had the pleasure of being
constituted one of a committee of five on the award of the Hayden
Memorial Medal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel-
phia a medal (and accompanying fund) awarded for meritorious
work in the domain of geology and paleontology. The award was
made unanimously, and almost without discussion, to Prof. Hux-
ley, and his name thus appears in association with the names of
James Hall, Cope, Suess (of Vienna), and Daubrde (of Paris), other
recipients and masters in a field with which the labors of Prof.
Huxley are not very generally associated. The following charac-
teristic reply, acknowledging the receipt of the award, was ad-
dressed to the Academy.
HoDESLEA, Stately Road, Eastbourne, January 4, 1894-
Gentlemen : The Hayden Memorial Medal, with your draft
(which will incorporate itself into an ornament for my wife's
drawing room), reached me the first of the month, a New- Year's
gift of a value quite unexampled in my experience. I am very
sensible of the great honor which the Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia has conferred upon me a retired veteran who has
much reason to suspect that he has already received quite as much
promotion as he has deserved.
But increasing years, if they bring a diminution of variety (I
am not sure they do), leave the desire for the esteem of those who
have a right to judge us intact, perhaps intensify it ; and I beg
leave to assure you and your colleagues fellow- workers of Hay-
den and of Leidy that the kindly and sympathetic terms of your
award have given me very great pleasure.
With all respect, I have the honor to be, gentlemen.
Your obedient servant and colleague,
Thomas Henry Huxley.
It is not for the student to sum up either the quality or the
quantity of the labors of his teacher and master, but for those who
still doubt and there are some such the justice of the position
which has by almost common consent been given to Huxley in the
realm of science, it may be recommended as a healthy exercise to
carefully read the titles of the hundreds of papers with which this
indefatigable writer, for the better part of half a century, has
crowded the pages of scientific journals and popular magazines ;
and after that, with equal care, the inquirer into fame will take
an advantageous turn in mastering the papers to which these titles
