340 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The matter remained a mystery until April, 1895, when Dr.
Ramsay, who was Lord Rayleigh's chemical collaborator in the
discovery of argon, in examining the gas liberated by heating a
specimen of Norwegian cleveite, found in its spectrum the D3 line,
conspicuous and indubitable. The mineral was obtained from
Dr. Hillebrand, one of our American chemists, who had previously
studied it, and ascertained that it could be made to give off a gas
which he identified with nitrogen^ It really was nitrogen in part,
but Ramsay suspected that he should also find argon, as he did
and helium besides, which was unexpected.
Cleveite is a species of uraninite or pitchblende, and it soon
appeared that helium could be obtained from nearly all the ura-
nium minerals, and from many others ; from many, mingled with
argon ; from others, nearly pure. In fact, it turns out to be
very widely distributed, though only in extremely small quan-
tities, and generally " occluded," or else in combination sel-
dom, if ever, free. It has been detected in meteoric iron, in the
waters of certain mineral springs in the Black Forest and Pyr-
enees, and Kayser even reports traces of it in the atmosphere
at Bonn.
It is generally obtained by heating the substance that contains
it in a close vessel connected with an air pump of some kind by
which the liberated gases are drawn off and collected. They are
then laboriously treated to remove as far as possible all the for-
eign elements (nitrogen, etc.), since the presence of no more than
five or ten per cent of other gases prevents the new elements from
giving any spectroscopic evidence of their presence ; they are too
shy and modest to obtrude themselves. In many cases, as has
been said, argon and helium come off together, and certain lines
in their spectrum are nearly coincident, so that for a time there
was supposed to be some close bond of connection between them.
The latest observations, however, make it certain that this is not
so : as Mr, Lockyer puts it, " argon is of the earth, earthy, but
helium is distinctly celestial."
Its spectrum has been thoroughly studied by Crookes, Lockyer,
and Runge, who agree as to all its leading characteristics.
Runge, whose work is the most complete and authoritative,
finds that its lines have a remarkably regular arrangement, fall-
ing into two distinct " sets," each set consisting of a principal
series and two subordinate ones, the lines in each series corre-
sponding very accurately to a formula quite similar to that dis-
covered by Balmer as governing the hydrogen spectrum.
In the whole spectrum he finds (by photography mainly,
though two of the most important were detected by the bolom-
eter) sixty-seven lines, twenty of which only are in the visible
part of the spectrum. Of the sixty-seven, twenty-nine belong to
