342 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
not appear at all in the spectrum of terrestrial " helium " derived
from any source whatever.
Ramsay's acoustic experiments tend to show that helium, like
argon, is monatomic, but can hardly be considered conclusive. If
he is right, the atomic weight of helium regarded as a single ele-
ment would be not far from four ; but thus far all attempts to
make it enter into chemical combination have failed, though it
seems rather probable that in the uraninite minerals it is held by
stronger bonds than those of mere occlusion.
Olszewski has tried his best to liquefy the gas, but thus far
unsuccessfully ; the methods that have conquered every other
gas, hydrogen itself included, have failed with helium a circum-
stance very remarkable, since generally a .denser gas liquefies
more easily than a lighter one, and hitherto hydrogen has stood
pre-eminent in its refractoriness. The fact that the gas is proba-
bly a mixture may explain his failure : air is more difificult to
liquefy than either oxygen or nitrogen.
Probably the question has suggested itself to every reader
how it happens that helium, so conspicuous in the atmosphere of
the sun and many stars, should be so nearly absent from our own
atmosphere and so scantily present in any form upon the earth.
The answer seems to depend upon two facts the chemical inert-
ness of the substance and its low density.
According to Johnstone Stoney's deductions from the accepted
theory of gases, no free gas of low density can remain perma-
nently upon a heavenly body of small mass and habitable tempera-
ture, but the molecules will fly off into space. A particle leaving the
earth with a velocity of about seven miles a second would never
return to it, this " limiting velocity " depending upon the mass
of the earth and its diameter. Now, according to the dynamic
theory of gases, the molecules of our atmosphere are flying swiftly
about with velocities (at ordinary temperatures) of from fifteen
hundred to fifteen thousand feet per second; the heavier mole-
cules, like those of oxygen and nitrogen, move comparatively
slowly, but if any lighter gas, like free hydrogen or helium, is
present, its molecules take up velocities several times more swift,
and any that may happen to be near the upper limits of the at-
mosphere would be likely to be thrown off into space. In the case
of the moon even the oxygen and the nitrogen would go, since she
is so small that a velocity not much exceeding a mile a second
would carry them off. If this is correct, it is easy to see why we
now have no appreciable quantity of free hydrogen or other light
gas in our atmosphere.
But while we have no atmospheric hydrogen to speak of, hy-
drogen w combination is extremely abundant ; one eighth part by
weight of all the water in the sea is hydrogen ; and hydrogen
