SCIENTIFIC TEMPERANCE. 343
combines freely with many other elements besides oxygen, so that
we continually liberate it in all sorts of chemical decompositions.
Helium, on the other hand, enters into combination most spar-
ingly, is therefore scarce, and even when present is, as we have
said before, not easy to detect.
SCIENTIFIC TEMPERANCE.
By DAVID STARR JORDAN.
AMONG the exhibits at the Columbian Exposition of 1893 was
- a map illustrating the progress of " scientific temperance "
in the United States. On this map those States of the Union in
which scientific temperance was a compulsory study in the schools
were shown in white. Those States which had not yet reached
this condition were shaded in black. The Northern States gener-
ally were white in color, while dark shades covered much of the
region south of the Ohio and Potomac. From this dark area,
however, one long black tongue stretched itself to the northward
from the Ohio River to Lake Michigan, separating the whiteness
of Ohio and the Northeast from that of Illinois and the Northwest.
Indiana alone in the North was a stumbling-block in the tri-
umphal march of the cause, the only district in which " science "
and "temperance " were not hand in hand.
This map leads one to consider for a moment the educational
history of Indiana, and especially the conditions under which in-
struction in human physiology becomes changed into " scientific
temperance."
With a view to lessening the cost of school books, the Legisla-
ture of Indiana in 1889 passed an act directing the State Board of
Education to contract with competing publishers for a uniform
series of text-books for the State. By the terms of this law the
standards were made high and the prices low, the low prices to be
made possible by the large sales of the books chosen. In putting
this law into action, the State Board of Education, of which the
present writer was a member, made a good deal of interesting his-
tory, most of which need not be discussed here.
In the subject of human physiology the series of text-books
chosen as the best was one written for this competition at the in-
stance of a local publishing house. The author of this series is a
teacher of biology, familiar with methods and results of scientific
research, and who has also a large interest in the teaching of chil-
dren. In the judgment of the Board of Education, one of the
points of superiority in this Indiana series over other works of-
fered in competition was the scientific way in which the difficult
