NEW OUTLOOKS IN MEDICINE. 367
But the greatest immediate practical benefit derived from the
new knowledge of micro-organisms is the certainty with which
some large groups of infectious disease can be controlled by pri-
vate and public measures of sanitation.
Of course, in sanitation, as in other phases of morals, it is not
as easy to do as to know what 'twere well to do. But it is safe to
say that if we were ready in this country to follow such dictates
of science in sanitary measures as are of known efficiency, we
could secure their birthright of long life and health to a large
proportion of that forty per cent of all the people who, as sta-
tistics show, are now destined to perish from preventable infec-
tious maladies.
The means by which individuals and health boards may real-
ize the possibilities for human weal so clearly indicated in the
newly won lore of preventive medicine I need not here recount.
They are easily enough learned as soon as the conviction of their
importance has grown to a fixed purpose of action.
The scope of this address does not permit me to dwell upon
the really wonderful degree of accuracy with which the educated
and experienced physician of to-day can detect abnormal condi-
tions in the varied cellular structures of the living body, nor
upon the clear conception which he may acquire of morbid states
and processes in situations physically inaccessible. He can rec-
ognize what groups of hidden cells are faltering in their work,
are struggling under burdens, or in what way the co-ordinating
mechanisms are failing in their tasks ; and now in one way, now
in another, and not most often with drugs, as so many think, can
he tide the halting mechanism over its hour of stress. The cause
of the disturbance may be removed, rest secured, pain assuaged,
perverted function set right, and even for a time the aged, worn-
out mechanism encouraged to prolong its task. And if the physi-
cian can not so frequently as we would wish guide to the happiest
issue the healing forces over which the human frame has gained
control, it is certain that, other things being equal, his success is
assured just in proportion to his accurate practical knowledge of
the delicate mechanism which he is seeking to repair, and his
comprehension of the nature of the life forces which he must in
the right way and at the right moment aid, and with which he
must as certainly not unwisely interfere.
In these hurried glimpses of only a limited phase of medicine,
it is most significant that there is no talk of humors and auras
and vital spirits, nor of illusive and intangible fancies such as for
centuries held sway in fields once ruled by demons and angry
gods, but of definite things which we can see and handle and
measure. Herein, to my thinking, lies the heart of our achieve-
ment and the brightest promise for the future.
