368 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But wliile our science and our art are now steadily growing
in precision and usefulness, our practical accomplisliments are
greatly limited, because general enlightenment regarding the
things of the body has not kept pace with the acquisitions of
science.
Our new outlooks in preventive medicine have made it plain,
as I have said, that a very wide curtailment of suffering and a
large saving of human life are possible if only the people can have
an elementary knowledge of the human body and of such simple
principles of hygiene and sanitation that under the increasingly
complex conditions of modern life they may be able to guard
against common forms of infection and against unwholesome
modes of life, which not only invite infection, but many other
forms of ill.
It seems to me that here the schools and the colleges have
high responsibilities, and of these I wish briefly to speak.
The conviction has for some time been current that the chil-
dren should be taught something about the structure and work-
ing of the human frame, and in this way already much has been
achieved. Of the importance of this sort of knowledge no spe-
cial demonstration is needed to-day. But in many of the public
schools in this land the instruction in physiology and hygiene
has been of late largely subordinated, if not actually falsified, to
the interests of what some are pleased to call temperance ; mean-
ing thereby the avoidance of alcohol and tobacco, lest horrible
and frequently impossible things should happen to the liver or
the brain.
But I think that the distortion of truth is not liable to lead at
last, no matter how worthy the motive, to the ends for which the
anti-alcoholic and anti-nicotinal physiologies and hygienes of our
schools have been devised. It seems to me certain that a great
deal of the future physical and mental well-being of our people
depends upon the acquirement early in life of absolutely accurate,
though it be rudimentary, knowledge of this complex and sensi-
tive bodily mechanism ; and that the self-control and self-respect
which such knowledge fosters will in the long run do more than
vague fear of bodily ill to promote a temperance much more com-
prehensive and beneficent than that which centers itself in the
avoidance of alcohol and tobacco, bad as the misuse of these may
be. It is to be hoped that mistaken zeal in this direction may
not long prevail to the physical and moral detriment of the
children.
Many of our institutions for higher education now recognize
the value of a knowledge of the body, and of the physical condi-
tions under which man can best secure the highest usefulness and
enjoyment. But I do not think that as yet this subject has re-
