NEW OUTLOOKS IN MEDICINE. 369
ceived attention at all commensurate with its vital bearing upon
the well-being spiritual as well as physical of those whom the
universities equip. So long as a knowledge of the human frame
was looked at from the standpoint of the dispenser of mysterious
drugs to a mysterious organism for the purpose of expelling mys-
terious foes ; so long as the body was regarded chiefly as a more
or less disreputable tabernacle for the temporary uses of the soul ;
so long as its harmonious and significant relationship to other
forms of being lay largely beyond our ken ; so long, I say, as all
these conditions prevailed, accurate knowledge of the body and
the factors necessary to its physical well-being did not command
attention in the higher educational outlooks.
The equipment which I urge is in no sense medical, nor is it
such as encourages the fancy to linger upon trivial ailments or
inspires the dread of disease. For it should be remembered that
the fundamental facts of anatomy, physiology, hygiene, and sani-
tation do not belong particularly to medicine, as is too often
hastily assumed. This knowledge is indeed especially useful to
the physician, and upon it he builds up into the domain of medi-
cine. But it is a part of the common stock of world lore. And I
do not think that there are any forms of provisional knowledge
among those which candidates for admission to the colleges are
required to possess more important than this.
Nor can I regard any schedule for the higher education, no
matter what the calling to which it is initiatory, as adequately
comprehensive which does not embrace definite and well-balanced
instruction in the more advanced knowledge of the human body,
its relationship to other forms of being, and the means through
which it best can serve those larger purposes of life which the
university inspires. One often marvels at the pitiful ignorance of
the body and of the simplest principles of healthy living common
among learned and cultured men and women to-day. Ashamed
not to know the origin of a word, or to fail in the comprehension
of a literary allusion, masters in theology, wise in the law, keen
in business, versatile and brilliant in society, they are prone to
court disaster in senseless modes of life, and fall easy victims
to charlatans and unscrupulous drug venders an association
which they share with the illiterate and uncultured in a fashion
highly democratic, and which suggests the survival of traits less
incongruous and much more picturesque in the North American
Indian.
Our new outlooks in medicine have not been won without toil
and sacrifice on the part of its devotees, and these will still be
necessary. But it is evident that in the medical colleges there
must now be fuller endowment of research and more adequate
provision for instruction, not only in the traditional themes of
