370 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
undergraduate study, so largely expanded, but also in recently
developed disciplines.
The clear appreciation of the close relationship of medicine to
other phases of biology ; the newly recognized importance of
practical familiarity with things themselves, rather than with
the impressions which another has gathered and more or less
lucidly imparts ; the patient training of the hand and eye and ear
to catch minutest variations in surface and color and shape and
sound all these requirements of modern medical instruction
involve pecuniary supx3ort far beyond that which was formerly
suflBcient.
As was to be expected, the necessity for improvement in the
medical curriculum and the urgency of the requirements of
research have been recognized at this university in the revision
and expansion of its medical course. And it is to be hoped that
the appeal for endowment of the medical school here at Yale,
made in the President's last report, may not go unheeded by those
who are now for a little while the custodians of wealth, and in
whose power it is to bring into play facilities for instruction and
capacities for research so full in the promise of immediate prac-
tical utility.
What, now, is the attitude of the physician, in the light of the
broader and more exact science which is to-day at his disposal ?
It may be at once conceded that his physical presence has mainly
lost its old-time picturesqueness.
It is inevitable that as soon as he laid aside the mysteries and
fictions and superstitions with which erstwhile he was wont to
invest his calling, was obliged to abandon charms and auguries
and secret remedies, and could no longer safely summon to his aid
the occult forces with which outgrown fantasies invested plant
and mineral and pregnant aspects of the stars, and was forced to
confess that in dealing with his charges he was even, as other
devotees to other sciences are, simply a student of common things
with the simple resources of actual knowledge and common sense
it was under these conditions, I say, inevitable that his claims
to confidence must more definitely rest upon his sound learning,
his obvious skill, his actual experience.
A large part of the late surviving professional mannerism
and dictatorial assumption has also passed away, and the doctor
of to-day is a man of the world, the friend as well as the expert.
It is a very wide-eyed generation which is coming on the scene,
and not prone to invest with unnecessary ceremonial or mystery
the dealings of its professional advisers with its ailments. Many
laymen know as well as we do that the administration of drugs in
their hour of stress is but an adjunct to the often more needful
and more potent guidance in diet, in regimen, and in the varied
