PIUMIGENIAL SKELETONS. 21
see a note in our Facts about Pompeii, published by Messrs.
Hazell, Watson & Viney, London.
Mr. A. Vaughan Jennings, as we have said, in 1892 had an
article in the June number of Natural Science concerning The
Cave Men of Mentone, which was so peculiarly inaccurate in its
facts as to merit a few lines of criticism. First of all he refers to
M. Riviere's skeleton of 1872 as if discovered in 1873. It was M.
Riviere's monograph that appeared in 1873. Knowing the place,
as we have all our life, we can say that he is correct when he
affirms that " the east side of the cavern No. 4 * has been a good
deal cut back by quarrying," although he omits to mention that
both sides of the cavern indeed, the whole face of the cliff some
twenty years ago came to within a couple of yards of the rocks
that break the force of the sea. Mr. Jennings, from his state-
ment, shows that he did not see the remains till the 15th of March,
and that by that date they were considerably modified, the skull
and arms having been removed. We saw the skeletons on March
18th, and according to notes we made at the time the arms were
still there ; however, we had the opportunity of seeing them on
the 23d of February in a very complete state. We also saw the
left arm of the third skeleton, that of the woman, bent up, which
Mr. Vaughan Jennings particularly says was not the case. In a
footnote on M. Riviere's measurements and those mentioned by
the papers, Mr. Vaughan Jennings regrets that " the exact meas-
ure will probably never be known, as the neck and shoulder re-
gion is now destroyed." We are happy to have been able to supply
this necessary information, from measurements that we took at
the time on the spot, before the skeletons were removed from the
earth in which they were imbedded. Later on Mr. Hanbury, of
Mortola, very generously bought the skeletons from Abbo and
placed them in the latter's cottage with the other remains ; this
has saved them from further destruction. Mr. Jennings places
the 1892 skeletons between the palaeolithic and neolithic periods
of man, and very rightly deprecates the habit of speaking of
these periods with sharp distinctions ; thus it is possible that an
intermediate race existed, while it is only natural to understand
that the formation of neolithic man was merely a series of pro-
gressions from earlier forms. On the other hand, the period of
time between the existence of palaeolithic and neolithic man may
not have been so great as has been supposed.
PART II, MAN, THE FLOOD, AND THE GLACIAL PERIOD.
Flint instruments, the product of man, for a long time have
been often found in many places. It is merely necessary here to
* M. Riviere's No. 5.
