NA'W OUTLOOKS IN MEDICINE. 371
general measure by wliicb. the stricken organism may be nursed
back to healtb.
And if we mumble and shift as we face legitimate inquiry as
to the nature of disease and of remedial measures, and strive to
foster the old conception of the body's hidden mechanisms as of a
" strange internal kingdom of which we are the hapless and help-
less monarchs," we surely can not justly protest if the baffled
inquirer turn to the charlatan.
While in many cases the patient is so ignorant, so heedless, so
indifferent, so little in control of his mental outfit, that the simple
dictum of the doctor may convey all that is wise, it is still, I think,
true that usually a clear and simple explanation of his condition
and an enlistment of his intelligence, or that of his friends, in the
nature of his malady and the measures proposed for its removal,
not only often contribute to success, but also, on the ipart of the
physician, are more dignified and more humane.
But, beyond this phase of helpfulness, the physician has the
largest opportunity in his intimate dealings with his charges to
so counsel and instruct that, especially in the routine of household
life, the fundamental principles of healthy living may be under-
stood and followed.
I am aware that to many physicians this is now the accus-
tomed way ; but it might, I think, wisely be the way more often
trod.
Again, the practitioner of medicine has facilities for fruitful
research to-day, however simple or obscure the field of his activ-
ity, such as no earlier time has realized because our problems
are more precise, our methods more exact, and opportunity for
interchange of thought abundant.
There is, indeed, no better example of the scientific method of
research than the performances, physical and mental, of the well-
equipped physician as he stands in the presence of this delicate
mechanism faltering in its tasks. He summons his facts by
story, by test, by observation ; frames from them, in the light of
all the lore which he can muster, a clear conception, or a theory
if you will, of the cause and nature of the disturbance ; and then,
by all the varied agencies at his command, assumes the role of
Nature's helper in the promotion of recovery.
There is nothing which the worker in the laboratory can do
with his tubes and balances more strictly scientific than the work
which engages the practitioner in his daily rounds. For it is the
method, not the tools or place or subject of our tasks, which
makes them scientific or unscientific. It is just as easy to be
unscientific in the laboratory as at the bedside, and in either
place it is easy to lose sight of science in the detail of mechanical
routine.
