372 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But beyond all that wliicli the physician can accomplish as the
friend and expert adviser of the sick in whom, first of all, his
allegiance centers, as the student of all things which promise help
in his fight against disease, as the friendly teacher ever mindful
that prevention is better than cure, and as one who toils for Sci-
ence for her sake alone beyond all these high offices there is yet
another upon whose duties he must now more seriously enter, if
he would hope to realize all that which our new outlooks promise.
I speak of the duties of citizenship.
Municipal and State health organizations have accomplished
much of late in the protection of the people against disease. But
the humiliating confession must be made that in many measures
of public sanitation in this country we are far behind the require-
ments of science. This is not, as a rule, because our health officers
do not know what to do or how to do. It is not usually because
they are indifferent or negligent. But in many cases the pitiful
sacrifice of life and the inexpressible suffering and loss which pre-
ventable disease involves are due to legislative indifference or
folly.
I am aware that there are many exceptions, but I think that I
am not mistaken when I say that among the measures vital to the
public welfare over which our legislators. State and Federal alike,
wrangle and bicker and deal when these are not treated with
indifference and contempt, as not contributory to the profit or to
the disgraceful notoriety of the hour there are none which more
often fail of intelligent consideration than those which concern
the public health.
But laymen in public office can not be regarded alone at fault
if they be not wisely directed ; and physicians are not, I think, as
keenly alive in this way as they should be to their responsibili-
ties as citizens. They know what ought to be done in the larger
public way to render the new knowledge in sanitation and the
control of disease available, and yet do not individually or as a
guild bring their expert knowledge strongly to bear as the intelli-
gent citizen always can, if he be right and enough in earnest.
There is little doubt that almost any legislative measure which
the medical profession unites and persists in urging as essential
to the maintenance of the public health can be speedily secured.
I know that there is a general feeling among physicians of the
better sort that conspicuous interest in public affairs may be mis-
construed and looked upon as in some sort a means of professional
advertisement. And one can not choose but appreciate and ad-
mire the sensitiveness and high sense of honor of which this senti-
ment is born. But, after all, there are greater misfortunes in life
than being misunderstood, and I think that the fine feeling which
leads the physician so often to waive the privileges of social and
