NEW OUTLOOKS IN MEDICINE. 373
public life in the interest of what he conceives to be professional
ethics is capable of a richer fruitage yet, in the defiance of mis-
construction, when impelled to whatever performance of public
duty he can justify to himself.
While the penalties of ignorance in things sanitary and hy-
gienic are growing more severe as our communal life becomes
more complex and crowded, there are, as we have seen, a good
many ways in which the lessons of modern sanitation can be
learned. Some of these lessons may wisely, as I think, be woven
into the educational equipment of the young. They may be
acquired in later life from books. Many may be assimilated
under the kindly offices of the physician. Much is taught by such
public measures as health boards may enforce. But, learned
these lessons must be sooner or later, and learned they are too
often now at the bedside and the grave.
Physicians know well enough that a stringent system of dairy
inspection should be at once and widely enforced, and it is really
for them more than for any other class of citizens to say how
many more object lessons will be necessary like those recently en-
forced at Montclair, at Waterbury, and at Stamford, before all
such caterers shall be compelled to conform to the rules of sani-
tary decency. The prevention of pollution of water supplies, the
compelling of reasonable cleanliness in public vehicles for human
transportation by land and by sea, the enforcement of precautions
against the spread of disease in public hostelries and places of as-
sembly, the organization of a national health bureau these are all
tasks which must speedily be undertaken, and they may be led to
rich accomplishment if the physician will but hold more clearly
in his consciousness his primal duty as a citizen.
In all that which I have urged about the more precise physical
and, I might almost say, mechanical nature of the professional
duties which in the new light the physician is called upon to as-
sume, I have purposely left largely out of sight his more intimate
personal relationships to those to whom he ministers. And yet,
lest one should fear that in our eager search for light we overlook
the man in the machine, I should like to assure the timid that all
that which always has and ever will dignify and ennoble his call-
ing, as one who is strong serving the weak, remains unchanged in
the physician, and is potent or feeble, not in ratio to his scientific
knowledge, but as he is more or less honest, keen of insight, high
of purpose, sympathetic ; and finds its highest fruition joined to
good judgment and self-reliance, and to whatever confidence- win-
ning and hope-inspiring qualities he can command.
It is not easy to estimate accurately the scope and value of
contemporary achievement. But as I look over the field of medi-
cine, with all its varying lights and shades, it seems to me that
