SUGGESTIBILITY AND KINDRED PHENOMENA. 377
to awaken one another. This is what is commonly described as
association of ideas. The reverse is also true, although not as well
known; many states tend to prevent the appearance of other
states. Agreeable states, for example, tend to force out the disa-
greeable, and vice versa. This, then, may be generalized in the
statement of the second property of mental states : every mental
state tends to produce, or prevent the production of, other states.
We may suppose that these phenomena are due to the interplay of
systems of activities within the cortex with one another.
But these activities within the cortex which underlie our ordi-
nary life of sensation and thought tend also to discharge down-
ward through the Rolandic region into the motor mechanism,
producing contractions of the muscles. Thus the third property
of the mental state is the ability to produce or prevent muscular
contraction. Not all mental states have this property in the same
degree. It is most evidently true of the feelitig of movement. I
once asked a class of sixteen girls to think intently what it would
feel like to lift the right hand and touch the left shoulder. After
a few minutes had elapsed nine of them confessed having felt a
desire to do it. I then dropped the subject and spoke of some-
thing else : in a few moments six actually did it. Most persons
when concentrating attention upon the thought of what a given
movement would feel like, find themselves becoming possessed
of a desire to do it, and this desire marks the tendency of the
thought to produce the movement. But as we not only feel but
also see our movements, we find that the thought of what a move-
ment looks like has also motor value and tends to produce it.
This is also true of touches and ideas of touch indeed, all or
nearly all mental states produce some motor changes in the body,
but the motor effects of sensations and ideas of sound, taste, and
smell are relatively slight.
Again, mental states tend to help or hinder the processes of
secretion and nutrition. We all know that the secretions of the
salivary glands, of the kidneys, of the mammary, and other glands
are readily affected by many mental states, but their effect upon the
processes of nutrition is more disputed. It is quite certain that
in a general way the impulses sent out by the central nervous
system are necessary to the proper nutrition of the body, but it is
not as generally accepted that individual mental states can pro-
duce definite changes, as, for example, when it is reported that a
hypnotized patient, by thinking of a burn, has actually produced
the burn. Yet even for this there is good evidence.
One may justly ask how it is, if mental states really have defi-
nite consequences, that we fail to note in our mental life the
orderly sequence of cause and effect with which we are familiar
in the physical world ? If there be any truth in the theory above
VOL. XLTIII. 27
