378 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
outlined, this inability to observe it is precisely wbat one should
expect. It is not possible to analyze the total content of conscious-
ness into any definite number of " states." The total state of con-
sciousness at any given moment depends upon the condition and
character of a system of physical activities, and its few distinguish-
able elements are related to some rather than to other elements of
that system. But no portion of the system could be what it is if
the other portions were not just what they are, and in the succes-
sion of the clearer states of consciousness we see not merely the
effect of the one clear state upon the next clear state, but the effect
of one whole system upon the next whole system ; and often the
active factor in determining the character of the next clear state
is not what was clearest in the preceding, but one of those which
were dimly existent in the margin, or even one of those that were
subconscious. To determine the true properties of any state it
would be necessary to isolate it by breaking up this co-ordination,
and that, as I shall show later, we can to some extent do.
Before taking up these more complex forms of disorganiza-
tion, or, better, disordination, I must make plain the meaning of
the word subconscious, which I have had occasion once or twice
to use.
I am sitting in a chair and reading an interesting story ; the
clock strikes and I do not hear it. Why ? There are only four
possible theories. We must suppose that the air vibrations strike
the ear drum and are propagated through the ear bones and
lymph to the auditory nerve. Then either (1) the physical pro-
cess is blocked at some point between the terminal filaments of
the auditory nerve in the inner ear and its origin in the cortex ;
or (2) the irritation reaches the cortex, but fails to awaken any
cortical process ; or (3) it awakens a cortical process which is un-
accompanied by any mental state ; or (4) it awakens both a corti-
cal process and a mental state. For the first of these alternatives
there is no evidence. On the contrary, since I hear the clock
strike if I am expecting it, and since all theories require us to
regard expectation as dependent upon cortical processes, if any
mental phenomena are, we must look to the cortex for the expla-
nation and not to the peripheral machinery. The second alterna-
tive is conceivable, but there is no direct evidence for it and there
is some against it. It is frequently possible, for example, to
awaken by hypnotic suggestion a memory of the event which
was not consciously experienced, and, as memory depends upon
the traces left by earlier experiences in the cortex, it would seem
to follow that there must have been a cortical disturbance. The
third alternative is more probable. There is reason for believing
that any cortical process must attain a certain degree of intensity
before its mental concomitant comes into being at all, and per-
