SUGGESTIBILITY AND KINDRED PHENOMENA. 379
haps the existence of other active processes prevents its attaining
that degree of intensity. Again, if we revert to the old soul
theory, now almost wholly abandoned by psychologists, but still,
I think, worthy of consideration, we may suppose that the corti-
cal process alone can not produce consciousness, but requires the
co-operation of some other factor. The pros and cons in these
last two suppositions are too intricate for present discussion, and,
indeed, my purpose is, not to prove a theory, but to state the
fourth supposition and to analyze some of its logical implica-
tions.
The parallel theory would raise the presumption that any
cortical process is accompanied by mental phenomena of some
kind. We would then assume, in the case under consideration,
that the cortical process in the auditory center generated a sound.
But how is this to be reconciled to the testimony of consciousness
that I heard no sound ?
Well, it may be that I did hear it, but instantly forgot it, so
that my present memory of that period contains no trace of it.
That this frequently happens there can be no doubt, but there are
many curious phenomena which require a further assumption,
and that further assumption may be thus stated : The sound may
have existed simply as a solitary sound, all alone, not in my con-
sciousness or in the consciousness of any one, but as a bare mental
event, related to my consciousness much as a sound in your con-
sciousness is related to mine. It is not an easy conception to
grasp, for our mental life always consists of many elements, and
it would seem that this multiplicity is essentially involved in our
notion of consciousness. Yet occasionally we have experiences
which help us in forming the conception of a mental state exist-
ing outside a personal consciousness. I remember a trifling opera-
tion upon the eye which I once underwent. For a few seconds my
consciousness seemed reduced to one element a flood of frightful
pain, which was not in my eye but seemed to pervade my whole
being, to the almost complete exclusion of all else. Again, under
nitrous oxide, my consciousness seemed reduced to something so
rudimentary as to be wholly indescribable. I have heard of
many similar experiences.
Without pronouncing upon the relative merits of the last two
hypotheses I shall develop some of the logical implications of the
latter. A state such as I have described, supposed to exist within
my head, so to speak, but outside my consciousness, may be de-
scribed as subconscious. There are, then, two conceivable ways in
which a mental state may vanish from the upper consciousness.
The cortical process upon which it depends may die away ; it then
perishes absolutely; or the cortical process may be dissociated
from the system underlying the total consciousness and yet re-
