380 populah science monthly.
main active, thus giving rise to a subconscious state. This sup-
position, that a cortical process may exist without coalescing at
all with the general system, is a somewhat novel assumption, and
it is in my opinion the weakest point of the theory. It would
require the further assumption that a cortical system, once co-
ordinated, tends to resist the introduction of a new element into
it, and for this there is some introspective evidence.
For consistency's sake the dynamic conceptions which I would
apply to mental states in consciousness must be applied also to
these mental states existing subconsciously. Subconscious ideas
and sensations must be capable of development in intensity and
in perfection of finish, so to speak ; must be able to awaken asso-
ciated ideas, to produce bodily movements, to affect secretion and
other metabolic processes. It would appear possible that the dis-
sociated processes underlying them may suddenly effect union
with the upper system, thus intruding the subconscious state into
the upper consciousness. When it does not actually effect union
it is conceivable that some of its results, such as its associated
ideas or emotional consequents, may appear in the upper con-
sciousness. It is also conceivable that its mere existence may
disturb the normal tension of the cortical activities, what has
been termed the psychostatic equilibrium of the cortex, and thus
affect the upper consciousness. A mental state supposed to be
thus growing and working subconsciously has been happily
termed by Pierre Janet a mental parasite or neoplasm. For all
these inferences, which I have stated as deductions from the
hypothesis that there exist mental states dissociated from the
normal consciousness, there is a great deal of direct evidence,
and it is upon an inductive study of that evidence that the hy-
pothesis is based ; but the limitations of space prevent my giving
concrete illustrations.
At a recent meeting of the English Folklore Society, a presentation
was made to Mr. G. Laurence Gomme, late president of the society, after
which Mr. Gomme spoke of his connection with the society as honorary
secretary, director, president, and now vice-president since seventeen
years ago, when he was one of four who started it in the dining room of
the late Mr. Thorns, founder and editor of Notes and Queries. The society
had taken its position now, he was sure, as representative of the psycho-
logical side of the history of man. With Mr. Brabrook, President of the
Anthropological Society, and Prof. Haddon working with them, they
hoped as soon as possible to obtain their proper position at the British
Association, and, with their scientific standing officially recognized, proceed
to accomplish some of the great work he believed they had before them.
They were not a dilettanti society, playing with antiquities, but they were
taking part in unraveling some of the great mysteries of man's nature.
