STUDIES OF CHILDHOOD. 381
STUDIES OF CHILDHOOD.
XIV. THE CHILD AS ARTIST.
By JAMES SULLY, M. A., LL. D.,
GEOTE PROFESSOR OF THE PHILOSOPHY OF MIND AND LOGIC AT THE UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
LONDON.
ONE of the most interesting, perhaps also one of the most
instructive, phases of child-life is the beginnings of art
activity. This has been recognized by one of the best-known
workers in the field of child-psychology, M. Bernard Perez, who
has treated the subject in an interesting monograph.* This de-
partment of our subject will, like that of language, be found to
have interesting points of contact with the phenomena of primi-
tive race culture.
The art impulse of children lends itself particularly well to
observation. No doubt, as we shall see, there are difficulties for
the observer here. It may sometimes be a fine point to determine
whether a childish action properly falls under the head of genu-
ine art production, though I do not think that this is a serious
difficulty. On the other hand, the art impulse, where it exists,
manifests itself directly and for the most part in so characteristic
an objective form that we are able to study its features with
special facility.
In its narrow sense as a specialized instinct prompting its pos-
sessor to follow a definite line of production, as drawing of the
artistic sort, or simple musical composition, the art impulse is a
particularly variable phenomenon of childhood. Some children
who afterward take seriously to a branch of art culture, manifest
an innate bent by a precocious devotion to this line of activity.
Many others, I have reason to believe, have a passing fondness
for a particular form of art activity. On the other hand, there
are many children who display almost a complete lack, not only
of the productive impulse, but of the sesthetic sense of the artist.
So uncertain, so sporadic, are these appearances of a rudimentary
art among children, that one might be easily led to think that
art activity ought not to be reckoned among their common char-
acteristics.
To judge so, however, would be to judge erroneously, by ap-
plying grown-up standards. It is commonly recognized that art
and play are closely connected. It is probable that the first crude
art of the race, or at least certain directions of it, sprang out of
playlike activities, and, however this be, the likenesses of the
two are indisputable. I shall hope to bring these out in the'pres-
* L'Art et la Poesie cbez TEnfant, 1888.
