384 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The values of the several colors probably disclose themselves
in close connection with that of color contrast. Many of the lik-
ings of a child of three in the matter of flowers, birds, dresses,
and so on, are clearly traceable to a growing pleasure in color
contrast. Here again we must distinguish between a true chro-
matic and a merely luminous effect. The dark-blue sky showing
itself in a break in the white clouds, one of the colored spectacles
which delighted Miss Shinn's niece, may have owed much of its
attractiveness to the contrast of light and dark. It would be in-
teresting to experiment with children of three with a view to
determine whether and how far chromatic contrast pleases when
it stands alone, and is not supported by that of chiaroscuro.
I have reason to believe that children, like the less cultivated
adults, prefer juxtapositions of colors which lie far from one an-
other in the color circle, as blue and red or blue and yellow. It is
sometimes said that the practice and the history of painting show
blue and red to be a more pleasing combination than that of the
complementary colors, blue and yellow. It would be well to test
children's feeling on this matter. It would be necessary in this
inquiry to see that the child did not select for combination a par-
ticular color as blue or yellow for its own sake, and independently
of its relation to its companion a point not very easy to deter-
mine. Care would have to be taken to eliminate further the in-
fluence of authority as operating, not only by instructing the
child what combinations are best, but by setting models of com-
bination, in the habitual arrangements of dress and so forth.
This, too, would probably prove to be a condition not easy to
satisfy.*
I have dwelt at some length on the first germs of color appre-
ciation, because this is the one feature of the child's aesthetic sense
which has so far lent itself to definite experimental investigation.
It is very different when we turn to the first appreciation of form.
That little children have their likings in the matter of form is,
I think, indisputable, but they are not those of the cultivated
adult. A quite small child will admire the arch of a rainbow and
the roundness of a kitten's form, though in these instances the
delight in form is far from pure. More clearly marked is the ap-
preciation of pretty, graceful movements, as a kitten's boundings.
Perhaps the first waking up to the graces of form takes place in
connection with this delight in the forms of motion, a delight
which at first is a mixed feeling, involving the interest in all mo-
tion as suggestive of life, to which reference has already been
made. Do not all of us, indeed, tend to translate our impressions
* The influence of such authority is especially evident in the selection of harmonious
shades of color for dress, etc. Cf. Miss Shinn, op. cit., p. 95.
