STUDIES OF CHILDHOOD. 387
not the power to embrace a multitude of tilings in a single act of
contemplation. Hence they have no feeling for landscape as a
harmonious complex of picturesquely varied parts. "When they
are taken to see a "'' view," their eye, instead of trying to embrace
the whole, as a fond parent desires, provokingly pounces on some
single feature of interest, and often one of but little aesthetic value.
People make a great mistake in taking children to "points of
view " under the supposition that they will share in grown people's
impressions. Perez relates that some children taken to the Pic du
Midi found their chief pleasure in scrambling up the peak and
saying that they were on donkeys.* Mere magnitude or vastness
of spectacle does not appeal to the child, for a sense of the sub-
lime grows out of a complex imaginative process which is beyond
his young powers. So far as immensity affects him at all, as
in the case of the sea, it seems to excite a measure of dread in
face of the unknown ; and this feeling, though having a certain
kinship with the emotion of sublimity, is distinct from this last.
It has nothing of the joyous consciousness of expansion which
enters into the later feeling. It is only to certain limited objects
and features of Nature that the child is aesthetically responsive.
He knows the loveliness of the gilded spring meadow, the fascina-
tion of the sunlit stream, the awful mystery of the wood, and
something too, perhaps, of the calming beauty of the broad blue
sky. That is to say, he has a number of small rootlets which
when they grow together will develop into a feeling for Nature.
Here, too, the analogy between the child and the uncultured
Nature-man is evident. The savage has no Eesthetic sentiment for
Naturfe as a whole, though he may feel the charm of some of her
single features, a stream, a mountain, the star-spangled sky, and
may even be affected by some of the awful aspects of her changing
physiognomy. Are we not told, indeed, that a true gesthetic ap-
preciation of the picturesque variety of Nature's scenes, of the
weird charm of wild places, and of the sublime fascinations of the
awful and repellent mountain, are quite late attainments in the
history of our race ? f
We may now look at the child's attitude toward those objects
and processes of human art which from the first form part of his
environment and make an educative appeal to his senses; and
here we may begin with those simple musical effects which follow
up certain impressions derived from the natural world.
It has been pointed out that sounds form a chief source of the
* Op. cit., p. 103.
\ An excellent sketch of the growth of our feeling for the romantic and sublime beautj
of mountains is given by Mr. Leslie Stephen in one of the most delightful of his works,
The Playground of Europe.
