388 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
little cliild-heart's first trepidations. Yet this prolific cause of
disquietude, wheu once the first alarming effect of strangeness
has passed, becomes a main source of interest and delight. Some
of Nature's sounds, as those of running water and of the wind,
early catch the ear, and excite wonder and curiosity. Miss Shinn
illustrates fully in the case of her niece how the interest in sounds
developed itself in the first years.* This pleasure in listening to
sounds and in tracing them to their origin forms a chief pastime
of babyhood.
^Esthetic pleasure in sound begins to be differentiated out of
this general interest as soon as there arises a comparison of quali-
ties and a development of preferences. Thus the sound of metal
(when struck) is preferred to that of wood or stone. A nascent
feeling for musical quality thus emerges which probably has its
part in many of the first likings for persons; certain pitches, as
those of the female voice, and possibly timbres being preferred to
others.
Quite as soon, at least, as this feeling for quality of sound or
tone, there manifests itself a crude liking for rhythmic sequence.
It is commonly recognized that our pleasure in regularly recur-
ring sounds is instinctive, being the result of our whole nervous
organization. We can better adapt successive acts of listening
when sounds follow at regular intervals, and the movements
which sounds evoke can be much better carried out in a regular
sequence. The infant shows us this in his well-known liking for
well-marked rhythms in tunes which he accompanies with suit-
able movements of the arms, head, etc.
The first likings for musical composition are based on this
instinctive feeling for rhythm. It is the simple tunes, with well-
marked, easily recognizable time divisions, which first take the
child's fancy, and he knows the quieting and the exciting qual-
ities of different rhythms and times. Where rhythm is less
marked, or grows highly complex, the motor responses being con-
fused, the pleasurable interest declines. It is the same with the
rhythmic qualities of verses. The jingling rhythms which their
souls love are of simple structure, with short feet well marked off,
as in the favorite " Jack and Gill."
Coming now to art as representative, we find that a child's
aesthetic appreciation waits on the growth of intelligence, on the
understanding of artistic representation as contrasted with a
direct presentation of reality.
The development of an understanding of visual representation
or the imaging of things has already been touched upon. As
Perez points out, the first lesson in this branch of knowledge is
* Op. cit, p. 115 ff.
