STUDIES OF CHILDHOOD. 389
supplied by the reflections of the mirror, which, as we have seen,
the infant begins to take for realities, though he soon comes to
understand that they are not tangible realities. The looking
glass is the best means of elucidating the representative function
of the image or " Bild" just because it presents this image in
close proximity to the reality, and so invites direct comparison
with this.
In the case of pictures where this direct comparison is ex-
cluded we might expect a less rapid recognition of the representa-
tive function. Yet children show very early that picture sem-
blances are understood in the sense that they call forth reactions
similar to those called forth by realities. A little boy was ob-
served to talk to pictures at the end of the eighth month. This
perhaps hardly amounted to recognition. Pollock says that the
significance of pictures "was in a general way understood " by
his little girl at the age of thirteen months.* Miss Shinn tells us
that her niece, at the age of forty-two weeks, showed the same
excitement at the sight of a life-size painting of a cat as at that
of real cats.f Ten months is also given me by a lady as the date
at which her little boy recognized pictures of animals by naming
them " bow-wow," etc., without being prompted.
This early recognition of pictures is certainly remarkable,
even when we remember that animals have the germ of it. The
stories of recognition by birds of paintings of birds, and by dogs
of portraits of persons, have to do with fairly large and finished
paintings. J A child, however, will " recognize " a small and
roughly executed drawing. He seems in this respect to surpass
the powers of savages, some of whom, at least, are said to be slow
in recognizing pictorial semblances. This power, which includes
a delicate observation of form and an acute sense of likeness, is
seen most strikingly in the recognition of individual portraits.
Miss Shinn's niece in her fourteenth month picked out her father's
face in a group of nine, the face being scarcely more than a quar-
ter of an inch in diameter.* I noticed the same fineness of recog-
nition in my own children.
One point in this early observation of pictures is curious
enough to call for especial remark. A friend of mine, a psychol-
ogist, writes to me that his little girl, aged three and a half, " does
not mind whether she looks at a picture the right way up or the
wrong ; she points out what you ask for, eyes, feet, hands, tail,
etc., about equally well whichever way up the picture is, and
never asks to have it put right that she may see it better." The
* Mind, iii, p. 393. f Notes on the Development of a Child, i, p. 71 f.
X See Romanes, Animal Intelligence, pp.311 and 453 f. The only exception is a photo-
graph which is said to have been " large," p. 453. * Op. at., i, p. 74.
