390 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
same thing was noticed in the other children of the family, and
the mother tells me that her mother observed it in her children.
I have found a further illustration of this indifference to the
position of a picture in the two children of another friend of
mine. Prof. Petrie tells me that he once watched an Arab boy
looking at a picture-book. One, a drawing of horses and chariot,
happened to have a different position from the rest, so that the
book being held as before, the horses seemed to be going upward ;
but the boy was not in the least incommoded, and without attempt-
ing to turn the book round easily made it out. These facts are
curious as illustrating the skill of the young eye in deciphering.
They may possibly have a further significance as showing how
what we call position the arrangement of a form in relation to a
vertical line is a comparatively artificial view of which a child
as yet takes little if any account. He may be able to concentrate
his attention so well on form proper that he is indifferent to the
point how the form is placed. Yet this matter is one which well
deserves further investigation.*
A further question arises as to whether this " recognition " of
pictures by children toward the end of the first year necessarily
implies a grasp of the idea of a picture that is, of a representa-
tion or copy of something. The first reactions of a child, smiling,
etc., on seeing mirror images and pictures, do not seem to show
this, but merely that he is affected much as he would be by the
presence of the real object, or, at most, that he recognizes the pic-
ture as a kind of thing. The same is, I think, true of the so-called
recognition of pictures by animals.
That children do not, at first, seize the pictorial or representa-
tive function is seen in the familiar fact that they will touch pic-
tures us they touch shadows and otherwise treat them as if they
were tangible realities. Thus Pollock's little girl attempted to
smell at the trees in a picture and " pretended " to feed some pic-
torial dogs.
When the first clear apprehension of the pictorial function is
reached it is difficult to say. Miss Shinn thought that her niece
" understood the purport of a picture quite well " at the age of
forty-five weeks. She draws this conclusion from the fact that at
this date the child, in answer to the question, " Where are the
flowers ? " leaned over and touched the painted flowers on her
aunt's gown, and then looked out to the garden with a cry of
desire.f But this inference seems to me very risky. All that the
child's behavior proves is that she " classed " real and painted
* Prof. Petrie reminds me that a like absence of the perception of position shows itself
in the way in which letters are drawn in early Greek and Phoenician writings.
f Op. cit., i, p. 72.
