STUDIES OF CHILDHOOD. 391
flowers together, while she recognized the superiority of the for-
mer as the tangible and probably the odorous ones. The strong-
est evidence of recognition of pictorial function by children is, I
think, their ability to recognize the portrait of an individual.
But even this is not quite satisfactory. It is conceivable, at least,
that a child may look on a photograph of his father as a kind of
" double." The boy C took his projected photograph very seri-
ously as a kind of doubling of himself. The story of the dog, a
Dandy Dinmont terrier, that trembled and barked at a portrait
of his dead mistress,* seems to me to bear this out. It would
surely be rather absurd to say that the demonstrations of this
animal, whatever they may have meant, prove that he took the
portrait to be a memento likeness of his dead mistress.
We are apt to forget how difficult and abstract a conception is
that of pictorial representation, how hard it is to look at a thing
as pure semblance having no value in itself, but only as standing
for something else. A like slowness on the part of the child to
grasp a sign, as such, shows itself here as in the case of verbal
symbols. Children will, quite late, especially when feeling is
aroused and imagination specially active, show a disposition to
transform the semblance into the thing. Miss Shinn herself
points out that her niece, who seems to have been decidedly
quick, was as late as the twenty- fifth month touched with pity by
a picture of a lamb caught in a thicket, and tried to lift the
painted branch that lay across the lamb. In her thirty-fifth
month, again, when looking at a picture of a chamois defending
her little one from an eagle, " she asked anxiously if the mamma
would drive the eagle away, and presently quite simply and un-
consciously placed her little hand edgewise on the picture so as
to make a fence between the eagle and the chamois." f Such
ready confusion of pictures with realities shows itself in the
fourth year and later. A boy nearly five was observed to strike
at the figures in a picture and to exclaim, " I can't break them."
The Worcester collection of observations illustrates the first con-
fused idea of a picture. " One day F , a boy of four, called on
a friend, Mrs, C , who had just received a picture, representing
a scene in winter, in which people were going to church, some on
foot and others in sleighs. F was told whither they were going.
The next day he came and noticed the picture, and looking at Mrs.
C and then at the picture, said, ' Why, Mrs. C , them people
haven't got there yet, have they ? ' "
All this points, I think, to a slow and gradual emergence of the
idea of representation or likeness. If a child is capable in mo-
ments of intense imagination of confusing his battered doll with
* Romanes, op. cit., p. 453. f Op. cit, ii, p. 104,
