392 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a living reality, he may be expected to act similarly with respect
to the fuller likeness of a picture. Vividness of imagination tends
in the child as in the savage, and indeed in all of us, to invest a
semblance with something of reality. We are able to control the
illusory tendency and to keep it within the limits of an aesthetic
semi-illusion ; not so the child. Is it too fanciful to suppose that
the belief of the savage in the occasional visits of the real spirit-
god to his idol has for its psychological motive the impulse which
prompts the child ever and again to identify his toys and even his
pictures with the realities which they represent ?
As might be expected, this impulse to confuse representation
and represented reality shows itself very distinctly in the first
reception of dramatic spectacle. If you dress up as Father Christ-
mas, your child, even though he is told that you are his father,
will hardly be able to resist the illusion that your disguise so pow-
erfully induces. Cuvier relates that a boy of ten, on watching a
stage scene in which troops were drawn up for action, broke out
in loud protestations to the actor who was taking the part of the
general, telling him that the artillery was wrongly placed, and so
forth.* This reminds one of the story of the sailors who on a visit
to a theater happened to see a representation of a mutiny on board
ship, and were so excited that they rushed on the stage and took
sides with the authorities in quelling the movement.
I believe that this same tendency to take art representations
for realities reappears in children's mental attitude toward stories.
A story by its narrative form seems to tell of real events, and chil-
dren, as we all know, are wont to believe tenaciously that their
stories are true. I think I have observed a disposition in imagi-
native children to go beyond this, and to give present actuality to
the scenes and events described. And this is little to be wondered
at when one remembers that even grown people, familiar with the
devices of art imitation, tend now and again to fall into this con-
fusion. Only a few days ago, as I was reading an account by a
friend of mine of a perilous passage in an Alpine ascent, accom-
plished years ago, I suddenly caught myself in the attitude of pro-
posing to shout out to stop him from venturing farther. A vivid
imaginative realization of the situation had made it for the mo-
ment a present actuality.
Careful observations of the first attitudes of the child-mind
toward representative art are greatly needed. We should proba-
bly find considerable diversity of behavior. The presence of a
true art feeling would be indicated by a special quickness in the
apprehension of art semblance as such.
In these first reactions of the young mind to the stimulus of
* Quoted by Perez, op. cit., p. 216.
