STUDIES OF CHILDHOOD. 393
art presentation we may study other aspects of the sesthetic apti-
tude. Very quaint and interesting is the exacting realism of these
first appreciations. A child is apt to insist on a perfect detailed
reproduction of the familiar reality. And here one may often
trace the fine observation of these early years. Listen, for exam-
ple, to the talk of the little critic before a drawing of a horse or a
railway train, and you will be surprised to find how closely and
minutely he has studied the forms of things. It is the same with
other modes of art representation. Perez gives an amusing in-
stance of a boy, aged four, who when taken to a play was shocked
at the anomaly of a chambermaid touching glasses with her mas-
ter on a fete day. " In our home," exclaimed the stickler for regu-
larities, to the great amusement of the neighbors, " we don't let
the nurse drink like that." * It is the same with story. Children
are liable to be morally hurt if anything is described greatly at
variance with the daily custom. Esthetic rightness is as yet con-
fused with moral rightness or social propriety, which, as we have
seen, has its instinctive support in the child's mind in respect for
custom.
Careful observation will disclose in these first frankly ex-
pressd impressions the special directions of childish taste. The
preferences of a boy of four in the matter of picture-books tell us
where his special interests lie, what things he finds pretty, and
how much of a genuine aesthetic faculty he is likely to develop
later on. Here, again, there is ample room for more careful stud-
ies directed to the detection of the first manifestations of a pure
delight in things as beautiful, as charming at once the senses and
the imagination.
The first appearances of that complex interest in life and per-
sonality which fills so large a place in our sesthetic pleasures can
be best noted in the behavior of the child's mind toward dramatic
spectacle and story. The awful ecstatic delight with which a
child is apt to greet any moving semblance carrying with it the
look of life and action is something which some of us, like Goethe,
can recall among our oldest memories. The old-fashioned moving
" Schatten-hilder " ioT which the gaudy but rigid pictures of the
magic lantern are but a poor substitute, the puppet-show, with
what a delicious wonder have these filled the childish heart ! And
as to the entrancing, enthralling delight of the story well have
Thackeray and others tried to describe this for us.
Of very special interest in these early manifestations of a feel-
ing for art is the appearance of a crude form of the two emotions
to which all representations of life and character make appeal
the feeling for the comic and for the tragic side of things. What
* Op. cit., pp. 215, 216.
VOL. XLTIII. 28
