394 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
we may call tlie adult's fallacy, the tendency to judge children by
grown-up standards, frequently shows itself in an expectation
that their laughter will follow the directions of our own. I re-
member having made the mistake of putting those delightful
books, Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn, into the hands of a
small boy with a considerable sense of fun, and having been hu-
miliated at discovering that there was no response. Children's
fun is of a very elemental character. They are mostly tickled, I
suspect, by the spectacle of some upsetting of the proprieties,
some confusion of the established distinctions of rank. Dress, as
we have seen, has ah enormous symbolic value for the child's
mind, and any confusion here is apt to be specially laughter-pro-
voking. One child between three and four was convulsed at the
sight of his baby bib fastened round the neck of his bearded sire.
There is, too, a considerable element of rowdiness in children's
sense of the comical, as may be seen by the enduring popularity
of the spectacle of Punch's successful misdemeanors and bravings
of the legal authority.
Since children are apt to take spectacles with an exacting seri-
ousness, it becomes interesting to note how the two moods, realis-
tic stickling for correctness, and rollicking hilarity at the sight
of the disorderly, behave in relation one to another. More facts
are needed on this point. It is probable that we have here to do
in part with a permanent difference of temperament. There are
serious, matter-of-fact little minds which are shocked by a kind
of spectacle or narrative that would give boundless delight to a
more elastic, fun-loving spirit. But discarding these permanent
differences of disposition, I think that in general the sense of fun,
the delight in the topsy-turviness of things, is apt to develop later
than the serious realistic attitude already referred to. Here, too,
it is probable that the evolution of the individual follows that of
the race : the solemnities of custom and ritual weigh so heavily
at first on the savage mind that there is no chance for sprightly
Laughter to show himself. However this be, most young chil-
dren appear to be unable to appreciate true comedy where the in-
congruous coexists with and takes on one half of its charm from
serious surroundings. Their laughter is best called forth by a
broadly farcical show in which all serious rules are set at naught.
Of no less interest in this attitude of the child-mind toward
the representations by art of human character and action are the
first rude manifestations of the feeling for the tragic side of life.
A child of four or six is far from realizing the divine necessity
which controls our mortal lives. Yet he will display a certain
crude feeling for thrilling situation, exciting adventure, and
something, too, of a sympathetic interest in the woes of mortals,
quadrupeds as well as bipeds. The action, the situation, may
