FIFTH INTERNATIONAL PRISON CONGRESS. 397
brilliant receptions were extended by the President of the Repub-
lic, the Minister of the Interior, and the city of Paris, and a series
of complimentary banquets tested the digestive capacity of the
delegates to the utmost.
The session of the congress extended over ten days. It was
divided into four sections. The first related to penal legislation,
the second to prison administration, the third to preventive means,
and the fourth to juvenile offenders. Separate sessions of each
section were held every morning. In the afternoon there was a
general assembly of the whole congress and reports from the work
of each section were heard, discussed, and voted upon.
The first section, dealing with questions of penal legislation,
drew together a fine array of legal talent. Nice questions of the-
ory came up for discussion, but they were generally obliged to
yield to practical considerations. The great plague of penolo-
gists as well as of society is the recidivist, or the "repeater/' or
" rounder," as he is more familiarly called in this country. He is
the man or woman who has been in prison half a dozen, or it may
be fifty or a hundred, times. The sentiment of the congress was
in favor of a gradual accumulation of penalties and of long sen-
tences for professional criminals. The laws of different countries
differ in the classification of these recidivists. But the congress
wisely decided that the dangerous attitude of the criminal toward
society was the main thing to consider. It did not present a
scheme of penalties, it did not decide in favor of definite or in-
definite sentences; it left much to the discretion of the judge,
though the feeling was expressed that judges are often more in-
fluenced by the gravity of the special act or by the circumstances
of the crime than by facts which may clearly reveal the danger-
ous character of the criminal.
A hot debate, continued through several sessions, occurred on
transportation. Though we have long since settled this question
in England and America, it is a practical question with France
and Russia. In Russia transportation has existed for three hun-
dred years, but it has not tended to reduce crime. None are better
aware of this than many prominent Russian jurists and penolo-
gists, and an interesting phase of the discussion was the presence
of a distinguished representative from Russia, Prof. Ivan Foinit-
ski. Professor of Law in the University of St. Petersburg and
general advocate of the Court of Cassation, who led the battle
against transportation. Prof. Foinitski has written an important
work on the subject, which has just been made available in French
through a translation by M. G. Bonet- Maury. In this volume,
after an elaborate description of transportation in England and
Russia, he shows that it has nothing but negative results to offer,
and rejects entirely the arguments advanced for it. In France
