398 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
transportation was adopted about forty years ago, and still exists
in the penal colonies of Guiana and New Caledonia, The French
system has strong advocates, and found one of its warmest
defenders in Prof. Leveilld, of the faculty of law of Paris.
The subject of comi3ensation or restitution for injured parties
has been commended at previous congresses. It has long been
felt that modern laws do not sufiBciently indemnify the victim of
crime. The difficulty is to show practically how this may be
done. It might be possible to apply a portion of the prisoner's
earnings to the relief of his victim, but the amount thus gained
would not be large. It is suggested that by combining condi-
tional liberation with the idea of reparation much more might be
effected. In some respects the laws are harder upon the victim
than upon the offender. Thus in France, while in a case sub-
mitted to a jury costs are not assessed upon the complainant if
the complaint is sustained, in all other cases the complainant is
obliged to defray the costs of the process whether for or against
him. The congress passed resolutions looking for a change in
such laws, and decided to take into serious consideration at its
next session, in 1900, various propositions for the relief of the
injured party.
Imprisonment is not the only means of checking crime ; and
no question more important came before the congress than the
subject of probation for first offenders. On this subject America
has some experience to offer, and Mr. Charlton T. Lewis, of New
York, and the writer had the honor of presenting to the congress
brief expositions of the method and results of the probation sys-
tem in Massachusetts. That State now has a probation officer
attached to each criminal court in every city and county, and
there are seven in the city of Boston. In the year 1893-'94 47,249
cases passed under their examination before going into court, and
5,317 were placed on probation. This probation system deserves
wider attention. One of its most important features is not only
the examination by the officer before trial, which induces the
judge to place the accused on probation, but the visitation and
surveillance exercised by the officers during the probation period.
In the whole matter of prison administration the congress had
the advantage of the presence of a large number of practical and
experienced prison directors. Politicians on this side of the water
are fond of tampering with the subject of prison labor. But labor
in prison was recognized by this, as indeed by every prison con-
gress, as an essential element in discipline and reformation. To
deprive prisoners of labor is simply inhuman, and in the end
results in transferring the criminal from a prison to an insane
asylum. The need of special prisons for women with women
directors was affirmed, and while the right of a prisoner to wage
