FIFTH INTERNATIONAL PRISON CONGRESS. 399
was not conceded, it was agreed that it was for the interest of the
state to give him gratuities. As a matter of fact, the system of
allowing the prisoner a portion of his earnings obtains all over
the Continent. Half of the amount thus earned may be expended
by him, under supervision of a director, or may be applied to the
relief of his family. The other half is retained until the time of
his discharge.
In Europe the cellular or separate system of imprisonment
prevails much more extensively than in this country. Indeed,
our only example of such a prison is that of the Eastern Peniten-
tiary of Philadelphia. The reformatory system as developed in
this country and illustrated by such institutions as those of El-
mira. Concord, and Pontiac was ably presented to the congress by
General R. Brinkerhoff, President of the National Prison Asso-
ciation of the United States, and by Mr. P. W. McClaughry, who,
having had experience as chief of police of Chicago and as the
head of several prison institutions, is one of the highest authori-
ties in this country on the treatment of criminals.
Discussion on the treatment of the criminally insane brought
out different points of usage in different countries. A large
amount of information was gathered. Some questions were
formulated for the next congress, among them the following:
What rule should be adopted to insure the possibility of a per-
manent medical control over the mental state of prisoners ? How
should asylums or quarters for insane criminals be organized so
that the necessities for treatment may be combined with the idea
of repression ? In the case of irresponsible delinquents and those
who commit crimes under temporary aberration, the congress ex-
pressed the view that special asylums or quarters should be pro-
vided for them, that they should be committed by judicial au-
thority, and only released upon the concurrence of a threefold
authority namely, the authority of the court, that of the admin-
istration of the institution, and of its medical council.
Under the head of "Preventive Means" were considered those
influences not only which would keep men out of prison, but
those which would tend to prevent them from becoming habitual
criminals. The whole treatment of the subject of discharged
convicts received serious consideration. It is somewhat sur-
prising that Europe is far better organized than the United
States for the care of the discharged convict. There are but four
or five really active societies of this kind in the United States.
There are ninety in England alone, and fifty in France. They
abound in Holland and Denmark, and are being developed in
Germany, Austria, Russia, and Italy. In Spain, work of this
kind scarcely exists ; in Switzerland, it is seen at its highest de-
gree of efficiency. In a country but half the size of the State of
