400 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Ohio there are fourteen societies for discharged convicts, and
some of these societies are organized with committees in every
district of the canton in which they are established. But the
most valuable and distinctive feature of the Swiss system is
the appointment of a person, called a patron, who makes the
acquaintance of a prisoner before he is discharged, and who be-
comes his guardian after his liberation. This system of personal
and friendly supervision is infinitely better than almsgiving, and
its value has been shown in the great reduction of recommit-
ments to prison in the districts where it is best established.
These foreign societies are supported by government aid as well
as by private subscriptions, and a part of their work consists in
guarding the earnings which the prisoner has accumulated dur-
ing his detention against wasteful expenditure.
The value of prison libraries was recognized, and the desira-
bility of a weekly publication in prisons under the special control
of the administration. In this country good examples of such
publications are furnished by The Summary, of Elmira, N. Y.,
and Our Paper, of Concord, Mass.
Alcoholism was regarded as a growing danger, especially with
reference to its influence on criminology. Reports from inebriate
asylums in Europe show that habitual drunkenness may be
treated with success if the victim can be retained sufiiciently
long. With a view of reducing intemperance in Russia, the
Government has already begun to acquire the entire monopoly
of the liquor traffic. Among preventive measures, the congress
commended the regulation and the limitation of saloons, the
multiplication of temperance cafes, the establishment of inebriate
asylums, and the association of public authority with private
agitation in the temperance cause.
No discussions were more earnest than those which related
to juvenile offenders. The presence of women of experience in
this and every other section of the congress was warmly encour-
aged, and they were gallantly welcomed by M. Pols, vice-presi-
dent of the commission, who frankly said that the solution of
these questions could not advance without the co-operation of
women. The multiplied aspects of vagabondage and mendicity,
the subject of prostitution and the measures to be taken to break
up the systematic trade carried on between various countries
through the decoy of young girls, the establishment and regula-
tion of houses of correction, the need of appropriate physical as
well as mental education, the relation of parental responsibility
and the question of farm school and agricultural colonies, the
placing out of children in families, and the supervision of chil-
dren thus placed were discussed as important phases of child-
saving work.
