BOTH SIDES OF PROFIT-SHARING. 401
It is not a criticism of the congress of 1895 to say that it
opened more questions than it decided. Penology, like every
other science, must advance by interrogations even more than by
affirmations. With the growth of knowledge problems multiply
and become more complex. But we are better prepared to grap-
ple with difficult conditions when we know what they are ; and
one of the most hopeful elements in dealing with the subject of
criminology in all its varied and elusive relations is the existence
of an organized international corps of men and women who ap-
proach the matter in a calm, judicial, scientific, and humane spirit.
BOTH SIDES OF PROFIT-SHARING.
By FEEDEEIC G. MATHEE.
THERE seems to be no immediate prospect of ending the con-
test between capital and labor. No matter how strikes or
lockouts are settled, they leave a bad feeling behind them that
will be shown as soon as another opportunity offers. Mutual dis-
trust and jealousy mark the-situation to-day as they have marked
it for many years past. The capitalist votes one way, and the
employees vote another, so that they may not oblige him. In
every dealing between the two sides the opposition is carried so
far that a good understanding seems more remote than ever. Nor
does there appear any hope for improvement till each party is
ready to make concessions.
The old system of apprenticeship drew more closely the bonds
of common interest between the employer and the employee, and
with benefit to both. It was comparatively easy for apprentices
to become employers. But labor-saving machinery has made the
workman an attendant upon the machine, and it has destroyed
that sympathy between him and his employer which was the
strength of the apprentice system. The blame for this rests upon
neither side exclusively. The system may have been too slow to
satisfy modern conditions, but the departure of it has made the
situation worse. No longer do workmen, as a rule, educate them-
selve'fe in schools of technology and by the reading of books. There
is no inducement for doing better things while the doctrine holds
that one man's work is as good as another's, and while labor or-
ganizations restrict the number of youth who shall learn trades,
thereby keeping all on the same level and giving none an incentive
to rise.
The establishment of boards of arbitration will not meet the
present difficulties. Those who adopt the idea, on the strength of
declarations made by both sides, of a desire for a reasonable settle-
