402 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ment of disputes should reflect that the same definition is not given
to the words ** reasonable " and " equitable " by either the labor
unions or the employers. Each side has its own definition, and
until that is known everything is uncertain. Neither side would
consent to have a course dictated by any form of official authority,
because everybody knows his own business best. No rational man
can believe that any large business can be conducted upon lines
laid down by outsiders. Much less can he believe that workmen
can be forced to respect the decision of an official board when they
do not cordially accept that decision.
The fatal defect in treating the labor problem thus far has
been the stress laid upon the change of method, when the needful
thing is a change of spirit in both parties to the controversy. The
friction has a moral cause that is common to both, and it will con-
tinue as long as mere gain is held to be the measure of success.
It can not be stopped by any mechanical contrivance of system or
method. But when success and use are made synonymous, the
friction will yield, because the moral and sympathetic forces have
begun to work upon a higher plane. This idea was well expressed
about fifty years ago in Boston, when the Rev. Dr. Channing de-
livered a course of lectures on The Elevation of the Working
Classes. In one of them he said : " There is but one elevation for
a laborer and for all other men. There are not different kinds of
dignity for different orders of men, but one and the same for all.
The only elevation of a human being consists in the exercise,
growth, and energy of the higher principles and powers of his
soul. A bird may be shot upward to the skies by a foreign power ;
but it rises, in the true sense of the word, only when it spreads its
own wings and soars by its own living power. So a man may be
thrust upward into a conspicuous place by outward accidents, but
he rises only in so far as he exerts himself and expands his best
faculties ; and he ascends by a free effort to a nobler region of
thought and action. Such is the elevation I desire for the laborer,
and I desire no other."
There seems to be but one practicable method of reaching this
elevation, and even that method is practicable only within certain
limits. Profit-sharing or wage-sharing maybe that method, if the
respective shares due to employer and employee can be adjusted
equitably. The method has been tried with success in several
branches of productive industry.
In 1844 the Paris and Orleans Railway Company adopted the
principle. Between 1844 and 1882 about twelve million dollars
were distributed as profit dividends among the employees, while
the wages paid to them were equal to those paid by roads that gave
their employees no share in the profits; and, at the same time,
the dividends to the stockholders were as large as they would
