BOTH SIDES OF PROFIT-SHARING. 403
have been had there been no profit-sharing. Students of political
economy are familiar with the Ateliers Socialistes of Paris, Many
of the smaller enterprises in the same city have also applied the
system of profit- sharing with remarkable success, one of the most
conspicuous being the Atelier de Broderies of M. Nayrolles. In
this establishment the system is carried out among a personnel
composed exclusively of women, and with astonishing results
both with the quality of the work and the increased wages of the
workers.
A notable scheme, recently tried in England, is that of the South
Metropolitan Gas Company of London, as a sequence to the suc-
cessful campaign of the dock laborers. The company proposes to
pay an annual bonus, based upon a sliding scale and regulated by
the price paid for gas by the public. At the present price the
bonus would amount to five per cent on the wages of the twelve
months ending on the 30th of June. In addition, to give the sys-
tem a start, and in order that the workmen shall derive a sub-
stantial benefit at once, the bonuses are to be calculated for three
years back. The men who have been in the regular employ of the
company for the past three years will thus have sums varying
from twenty-five to thirty dollars placed to their credit at once.
It is stated that if all the workmen take advantage of this offer it
will cost the company fully sixty thousand dollars a year, all of
which is a clear gain to the men over and above their regular rate
of pay. Another late example comes from a factory of wood pulp
in Norway, where nearly sixty men are employed. The gross profit
of the first year amounted to about seventy thousand dollars, from
which three thousand dollars was taken out for interest on the
capital, and fifteen thousand dollars for working expenses. The
remainder has been distributed to the men, giving them about
one hundred and fifty dollars each. Nearly all of them have used
the money in making payments on houses for themselves, thus
leading to contentment and industry.
Within the past four years a prominent firm of clothiers in
New York city has declared dividends of three and five per cent
on the wages of its employees ; and a leading merchant of Phila-
delphia divided $109,439 and $104,345 among his employees in two
successive years. After several experiments in other lines, a pub-
lishing house in Chicago adopted profit-sharing about fifteen years
ago. The house has increased its capital stock more than once ;
and many of its men, who were ordinary workmen under the old
system, now own their homes and are worth from five thousand
to fifty thousand dollars each. In another establishment, also in
Chicago, those who had been in the employ of the company for
one year or more were informed that if the amount of their sales
for six months should exceed the total for the same period of time
