404 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in the previous year, they would be allowed a commission on the
excess. The commission averaged two and a half per cent. The
employees at once increased their efforts to sell; and when the
first distribution was made, last July, it was found that several
of the girls had drawn nearly one hundred dollars as their share
of the profits for six months.
The Bodwell Granite Quarry, in Maine, adopted the profit-
sharing system in the year 1885. As a result, the output of the
works has increased, and the employees are sober, contented,
and industrious. The arrangement is this : Ten per cent of the
profits is laid aside every year. The remaining profits are divided
equally between the employer, the men, and a contingent fund.
When the latter reaches more than one per cent of the loss in any
one year, the surplus of the fund is divided equally between the
employers and the men. It is not probable that there could be
losses larger than the contingent fund, unless the business were
very poorly managed, or unless a financial crisis came over the
whole country.
The largest manufacturer of felt shoes in the United States,
after experiment with several forms of profit-sharing, has recently
formulated rules and regulations for the just distribution of the
net earnings among his employees. There are to be three classes
for this distribution : first, pension ; second, life insurance ; third,
endowment. The share of the net earnings to be set aside every
year shall be calculated upon the positive results of the records of
the actual work done by the employees. Against this distribution
account the amounts paid for life insurance, under the provisions
of the insurance law, and the amount necessary to maintain the
pension fund are to be considered fixed charges. As soon as the
workman is made a partner in the business, so that a loss to his
employer is a loss to him, it will make him more careful of his
time. He will see that his fellow- workman performs his duty, and
that there is no waste by any one. Such an arrangement is profit-
able to the employer in the end, because every man in his employ
will have some incentive to work. The employer thus guarantees
extra pay to the employed.
But can any one guarantee to the employer that every year will
be a profitable one ? And if there are losses, who shall make them
up ? Shall the employers make them up by themselves, or shall
the men, having once been taken into a partnership upon the
profits, still continue that partnership by making up their share
of the losses ? There are many employed men who are the own-
ers, or the partial owners, of their homes. They would gladly
enter into an arrangement for the division of the profits, but they
would hesitate to mortgage their homes as security for their pro-
portion of the losses in a bad year. Other employees could offer
