SKETCH OF EBENEZER EMMONS. 407
pinned on when he was a small boy. His mother often used to
say: "Eb, why do you always have your pockets filled with
stones ? I have to mend them every week." His birthplace and
the adjoining town of Chester were noted for rare minerals. When
he came home for a vacation from school or college he generally
brought some fellow-student with him. He and his friend would
set off for the mineral localities and be gone all day, coming back
tired and hungry, but were always ready to go again the next
morning.
He was fitted for college under the instruction of the Rev.
Moses Halleck, of Plainfield, Mass., a well-known educator of his
time, and was graduated from Williams College in due course.
Prof. Marcou gives 1820 as the year of his graduation, but the
General Catalogue has him in the class of 1818, which seems to be
conclusive. As a college student his interest in the sciences was
quickened by the instruction of Prof. Amos Eaton and Prof.
Chester Dewey, and he subsequently had a large share in intro-
ducing the study of these subjects among the young men of the
country. After completing his college course Mr. Emmons con-
tinued his favorite studies at the Rensselaer School, graduating
there with the class of 1826. In the same year he published his
Manual of Mineralogy and Geology for the use of the students
of that institution. He also studied medicine at the Berkshire
Medical School, and established himself as a practicing physician
in Chester, Mass.
In 1818, at the age of nineteen, Mr. Emmons married Miss
Maria Cone, of Williamstown, and at the age of thirty-seven be-
came a grandfather by the birth of a son to his eldest daughter.
In 1828 Dr. Emmons removed to Williamstown, where he con-
tinued to practice medicine, and in the same year was appointed
lecturer on chemistry in Williams College. A cabinet of minera-
logical and geological specimens which he began to collect here
was presented by him to the college after it had received the valu-
able accretions of twenty years. He resided in Williamstown
until 1838, becoming the most eminent practitioner in Berkshire
County. In 1830 he was appointed junior professor in the Rens-
selaer School and held the position till 1839. He was also a lec-
turer in the Medical School of Castleton in the days of its re-
nown. His chair in Williams College was enlarged in 1833 * to a
professorship of Natural History, which he held till 1859, when
the department was divided, he retaining the mineralogy and
geology till his death.
Having been appointed upon the Geological Survey of New
* The History of Williams College, another book by the Rev. Calvin Durfee, D. D.,
above quoted, gives 1848 as the year of his election to the professorship of Natural History.
