4o8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
York in 1836 and Professor of Chemistry in the Albany Medical
College in ] 838, Dr. Emmons removed in the latter year to Al-
bany. He was afterward transferred to the professorship of Ob-
stetrics, and remained on the faculty of the Medical College till
1852. During this period he used to go to Williamstown each
year to deliver the course of lectures belonging to his professor-
ship there. His position on the New York survey enabled him
to make the valuable present of a suite of the minerals of that
State to his alma mater in 1842. One of his Williams College
students now himself a venerable though young-hearted profess-
or well remembers the strong face and beetling brows of Dr.
Emmons, and his manner of giving instruction. His disposition
was kindly. Being a non-resident, not much was seen of him by
the students ; he would appear at the lecture room, give his lec-
ture, and disappear. There was not much of the pedagogue about
him. Students who had a special liking and capacity for his sub-
ject profited much from his instruction ; but his enthusiasm in
telling the wonders of the rocks carried him along at a rate which
left the inditferent student far behind. If only a fraction of his
class appeared at the lecture, or if he projected a question at
Brown and a response came from Jones or Robertson, he seemed
not to notice the difference. Williamstown is in the heart of the
Berkshire Hills. One of the summits of East Mountain, a neigh-
boring eminence, is the only place in that region where gneiss
crops out, and here Prof. Emmons used to bring his students to
display to them as best he could the relations of his much-dis-
puted Taconic System to the other and then better known geo-
logical formations. Very likely only a couple of the class would
reach the summit with him, yet he would discourse just as ear-
nestly to these as to the whole party that set out with him. This
height, says Prof. Arthur L. Perry, in his Origins in Williams-
town, "has been justly designated Mount Emmons, by one who
was once a pupil and later a colleague and always an admirer of
the distinguished Professor of Natural History in the college,
Ebenezer Emmons."
It is related of Prof. Emmons, as illustrating his enthusiasm,
that once when on a journey with President Hopkins, of Wil-
liams, and the president's brother, he asked his friends to turn
aside with him to visit a certain cave. They consented to the
delay, although the brother was on his way to be married, and
waited just within the entrance of the cavern while Emmons
penetrated to its inmost depths. After a time they heard the ex-
cited cry, " I've got it ! I've got it ! " and out rushed the geologist,
bearing triumphantly a muddy fragment of rock. He had secured
a piece of evidence in support of his Taconic System.
In 1836 a law was passed providing for a geological survey of
