24 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
reindeer on which were etched the figures of mastodons, deer, and
horses. Caves in Saxony, Gibraltar, Austria, and many other
places have been discovered containing human bones. The hu-
man skeletons discovered in a modern limestone formation at
Guadaloupe, in the Windward Islands, are possibly of a later
period and are not even fossilized, though imbedded in compact
stone. In August, 1894, Herr Masclia, director of the Grammar
School at Predmost in Bohemia, who has for many years made
discoveries in that neighborhood ! and has found hundreds of
mammoth skeletons, has unearthed a family of six people a man
of enormous size and a woman and her children near to the re-
mains of mammoths ; this is said to be the furthest northeast that
primeval man has been discovered with the bones of antediluvian
animals. It is a pity that more exact information upon certain
interesting points has not come to hand. It is equally a pity
that all such treasures of the ancestry of our race should not be
preserved and indeed systematically sought for by professional
scientists and archat'ologists, for we know how those at Mentone
have been ruined and altered and their ornaments removed by
the peasant Abbo and his workmen before competent judges have
had any chance of observing the several different points of inter-
est that seem to require even more than the knowledge of the
anatomist and osteologist. These remains at Predmost and the
men whose bones have been discovered at Mentone must have
been coeval with the animals of either the Miocene, Pliocene, or
Glacial periods. But as late as the Glacial period the bones have
been discovered of mammoth and of extinct species of lions, bears,
rhinoceros, hyenas, reindeer, Irish elk, and of the Bos 'primige-
nius, animals that had also existed in the two earlier periods, and
with whose bones flint instruments have been in different places
discovered in fluviatile gravels and in caves. This, however, only
proves that man lived either during or just previous to the Gla-
cial period, the latest at which these animals existed. Till, how-
ever, the bones of man or his flint instruments can be found with
the bones of some animal that became extinct before the Glacial
period, we can not place him at any earlier date.
If, however, man existed before or during the Glacial period,
it is strange that there should be no tradition of such a change
taking place on the earth's surface. It may be that the alteration
in temperature was so gradual, and extended over such a great
length of time, that the generations of men who succeeded each
other were unaware of it ; perhaps, too, almost imperceptibly to
themselves, the then existing races of men moved gradually to
warmer regions, keeping pace with the advance of cold, which
we must, in reasoning thus, suppose to have been so gradual that
at any rate nomadic races would not have noticed it by their tradi-
