410 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cal survey, then arranged, and in progress of arrangement, in the
old State Hall on State Street, which building had been assigned
for that purpose by the Legislature of 1840. He was appointed to
this position by Governor Seward and assumed charge of the col-
lections in the latter part of 1842. On the same occasion on which
this recommendation was made it was also recommended by the
staff that the work in agriculture and paleontology which had
been left unfinished should be assigned to Dr. Emmons and Prof.
Hall.
In the spring of 1843 Governor Bouck directed Dr. Emmons to
investigate the agricultural resources of the State ; and the pale-
ontology was placed under the charge of Prof. Hall, while Dr.
Emmons still retained his position as custodian of the collections
of the survey until 1845. The five volumes of his report on the
Agriculture of New York appeared in 1846, 1849, 1851, and 1854.
The first was devoted to a " topographical sketch of the State,
climate and temperature, agricultural geology, the Taconic Sys-
tem, and the soils of New York " ; the second to analyses of grains
and other vegetable products ; the third and fourth, one consist-
ing of text, the other of plates, to cultivated fruits ; and the fifth
to injurious insects. This fifth volume has been severely criti-
cised, but it should be remembered that the writer to whom its
preparation was intrusted, not being versed in entomology, could
only compile from the best sources at his command, at a time
when the science was in its infancy, and comparatively little was
known of the insects of the State. The many illustrations, which
are well colored in the larger portion of the edition, were mainly
drawn from Nature, and in some of the orders, as in Coleoptera
and Hemiptera, have a degree of excellence which is rarely sur-
passed even at the present day.
About the time the third volume came from the press he was
appointed State Geologist of North Carolina. In his new field he
made further important contributions to the advance of Ameri-
can geology. In the coal measures of the Deep and Dan Rivers
he discovered a grand Triassic flora, and a fauna that included
among many ancient vertebrates the Dromatherium sylvestre, the
oldest mammal yet found anywhere in the world. His descrip-
tion of the new red sandstone flora of North Carolina proved so
valuable that twenty years after his death the United States
Geological Survey reproduced all the plates and descriptions
given by him in the sixth part of his American Geology. Three
volumes of North Carolina reports were published by him. One
on the Geology of the Midland Counties was issued in 1856; a
volume devoted to the Agriculture of the Eastern Counties, with
descriptions of the fossils of the marl beds, in 1858 ; and a second
part of his report on the agriculture of the State, " containing a
