SKETCH OF EBENEZER EMMONS. 411
statement of the principles of the science upon which the prac-
tices of agriculture as an art are founded/' appeared in 1860. The
civil war interrupted his labors. The anxieties and separation
from friends occasioned by it probably hastened his death, which
took place at his residence in Brunswick County, N. C, October 1,
1863. His wife, a son, and two daughters survived him.
Besides the works already mentioned. Prof. Emmons published
an account of the Taconic System (Albany, 1844). Having been
commissioned by Governor Edward Everett to report upon the
Zoology of Massachusetts, he prepared a volume, devoted to the
quadrupeds, which was printed at Cambridge in 1840. His Ameri-
can Geology, which appeared in 1855, was supplemented by a
Manual of Geology in 1859.
A clear-sighted and energetic worker. Dr. Emmons was a liv-
ing force for the advancement of his chosen science. The Rev.
Mark Hopkins, President of Williams College from 183G to 1872,
said of him : " Emmons was a man of remarkable power and great
accuracy of observation. He seemed to have an intuitive percep-
tion of the differences in natural objects. He possessed an intense
enthusiasm in his work, but in his manner was remarkably quiet.
I have never seen the two things combined to the same extent.
His perseverance knew no limit. It ought to be added that, in
connection with his science, he was deeply religious. Williams
College is greatly indebted to him for its collections in natural
history."
Several instances of the Eurojiean survival of practices that probably
originated in cannibalism were cited in a discussion on that subject at the
meeting of the British Association. Mr. Elworthy said that in one part of
France the last of the harvest corn is baked into a loaf shaped like a human
figure. This is supposed to represent the spirit of the corn the spirit of
vegetation, reproduction, fertihty and is broken up, distributed among the
villagers, and eaten. Mr. E. S. Hartland said that not long ago, in upper
Bavaria, when a man died and had been laid out, a cake was made of ordi-
nary flour. The corpse was placed before the fire, and this cake, called the
corpse cake, was put upon his breast to rise. The dough, in rising, was
believed to absorb all the virtues of the deceased, and the cake was after-
ward eaten by his nearest relatives. In the Balkan Peninsula an edible
image of the dead was carried in the funeral procession. When the body
was buried the mourners ate this image above the grave, saying, " God rest
him!" In Wales the function of the "sin-eater" has only ceased within
the memory of men still living. It was the custom for the nearest relative,
usually a woman, to hand across the bier, or place upon the breast of the
corpse, bread, cheese, and beer, which were eaten by the sin-eater, who
pronounced everlasting rest to the depai-ted. It was believed that the
sin-eater thus appropriated to himself all the sins which the deceased had
committed.
