412* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
IX. ARCHITECT.
By HEEBERT SPENCER.
BUILDING of the kind dignified by the name architecture,
can not exist during early stages of social development.
Before the production of such building there must be an advance
in mechanical arts greater than savages of low type have made
greater than we find among the slightly civilized.
It is true that constructions of unhewn stones arranged upon
the surface into some order, as well as rude underground stone
chambers, have been left by prehistoric peoples, and that incipient
architecture is exhibited in them. If we extend the conception to
take in these, however, we may remark as significant, that the art
was first used either for preservation of the dead or as ancillary
to ceremonies in honor of the apotheosized dead. In either case
the implication is that architecture in these simple beginnings
fulfilled the ideas of the primitive medicine-men or priests. Some
director there must have been; and we can scarcely help con-
cluding that he was at once the specially skillful man and the
man who was supposed to be in communication with the departed
spirits to be honored.
But now, saying nothing more of this vague evidence, let us
pass to evidence furnished by those semi-civilized and civilized
peoples who have left remains and records.
We are at once met by the broad fact, parallel to the fact im-
plied above, that the earliest architecture bequeathed by ancient
nations was an outcome of ancestor-worship. Its first phases were
exhibited in either tombs or temples, which, as we have long ago
seen, are the less developed and more developed forms of the same
thing. Hence, as being both appliances for worship, now simple
and now elaborate, both came under the control of the priest-
hood ; and the inference to be drawn is that the first architects
were priests.
An illustration which may be put first is yielded by Ancient
India. Says Manning: "Architecture was treated as a sacred
science by learned Hindus." Again we read in Hunter
'' Indian architecture, although also ranked as an xqoa-veda or supple-
mentary part of inspired learning, derived its development from Buddhist
rather than from Brahmanical impulses."
In Tennent's Ceylon there are passages variously exhibiting the
relations between architecture and religion and its ministers. By
many peoples the cave was made the primitive tomb-temple ; and
