PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS. 413*
in the East it became in some cases largely developed. A stage
of tlie development in Ceylon is described as follows :
" In the Rajavali Devenipiatissa is said to have ' caused caverns to be
cut in the soUd rock at the sacred place of Mihintala ' ; and these are the
earliest residences for the higher orders of the priesthood in Ceylon, of
which a record has been preserved."
" The temples of Buddha were at first as unpretending as the residences
of the priesthood. No mention is made of them during the infancy of
Buddhism in Ceylon, and at which period caves and natural grottoes were
the only places of devotion."
Referring to later stages, during which there arose " stupendous
ecclesiastical structures/' Tennent adds :
"The historical annals of the island record with pious gratitude the
series of dagobas, wiharas, and temples erected by" Devenipiatissa "and
his successors."
A dagoba " is a monument raised to preserve one of the relics of Go-
tama . . . and it is candidly admitted in the Mahaicanso that the inten-
tion in erecting them was to provide ' objects to which offerings could be
made.' "
Here though we do not get evidence that the architects were the
priests, yet other passages show that Buddhist temples were the
works of converted kings acting under direction of the priests.
Moreover, the original development of architecture for religious
purposes, and the consequent sacredness of it, is curiously implied
by the fact that the priesthood " forbade the people to construct
their dwellings of any other material than sun-baked earth."
This last extract recalls the general contrast which existed in
ancient historic kingdoms between the dwellings of the people
and the buildings devoted to gods and kings. The vast mounds
from which Layard exhumed the remains of Babylonian and
Assyrian temples are composed of the debris of sun-dried bricks,
mingled, doubtless, with some decomposed wood otherwise used
for constructing ordinary houses. Layers upon layers of this
debris were accumulated until the temples were buried, as some
temples are even now being buried in Egypt. Whether it was
because of the costliness of stone, or because of the interdict
on use of stone for other than sacred purposes, or whether
these causes co-operated, the general implication is the same
architecture began in subservience to religion (comprehending
under this name ancestor-worship, simple and developed) ; and
was, by implication, under the control of the priesthood. Such
further evidence as Ancient Babylonia yields, though indirect, is
tolerably strong. Saying of the temple and palace " solemn
rites inaugurated its construction and recommended its welfare
to the gods," and implying that its plan was governed by estab-
lished tradition (of which the priests were by implication the
depositaries) Perrot and Chipiez write :
