TEE ELECTRIC FURNACE IN CHEMISTRY. 419*
By the side of them we may place other metals the minerals of
which are rare such as zirconium and vanadium.
Vanadium, on which Prof. Roscoe has made some interesting
studies, was not known, except as a gray powder including hydro-
gen, oxygen, and a little of some alkali metal as impurities ; but
Prof. Roscoe has had the pleasure of seeing in my little laboratory
at the Ecole de Pharmacie several hundred grains of it, under the
form of cast metal pieces, having a crystalline and brilliant frac-
ture. This simple body, the mineral of which occurs more exten-
sively than is generally supposed, is very difficult to melt, it hardly
liquefying in the current produced in the Edison dynamo by an
engine of forty horse power.
In our studies of titanium, a mixture of charcoal and titanic
acid gave, with a machine of four horse power, protoxide of tita-
nium ; with a machine of forty-five horse power we obtained only
nitride of titanium ; under the action of currents of from one hun-
dred to three hundred horse power we prepared by kilogrammes
a crystallized carbide, and then real titanium, the properties of
which are wholly different from those formerly attributed to the
gray powders that bore that name. This substance takes fire in
fluorine ; decomposes water only at a bright-red heat ; and pos-
sesses the curious property of burning in nitrogen at a high
temperature, yielding the nitride of titanium studied by Friedel
and Gudrin. It readily combines with carbon and silicon, but
does not unite with argon. Its melting point is very high, it
resembling carbon in that respect. It differs from carbon, how-
ever, in the fact that while carbon under the ordinary pressure
and at a great elevation of temperature passes from a solid to a
gas without becoming liquid, titanium can, in the electric fur-
nace, be liquefied and then volatilized.
Most of the simple bodies furnish, with carbon, well-defined
combinations, crystallized and stable, at a high temperature, which
are destined to furnish a new chapter to mineral chemistry.
All these simple bodies which we have obtained by kilo-
grammes in the electric furnace form also borides and silicides
finely crystallized and so hard that some of them easily cut the
diamond. What part they are to have in the manufacture of steel,
and whether they are destined, like chromium, to give new prop-
erties to iron, are questions for the future to answer. But a new
chemistry of high temperatures is forming, from which industry
will most likely draw numerous applications.
It is recognized on all sides that some of our industries are
about to suffer important modifications through the use of elec-
trical forces. We ask of the forces of Nature all they can yield ;
and they are capable of easy use when transformed into electricity.
Translated for the Popular Science Monthly from La Nature.
