412
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
^Gxxtsptsniituct.
THE DRIFT OF POPULATION IN
FRANCE.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Sir: My article entitled Has Immigra-
tion increased Population ? having been sent
to you two years ago, contains some observa-
tions the force of which has been greatly
modified by time, and would have been omit-
ted or expressed very differently if I bad
been writing now. I had corrected them on
the proofs, but the corrections unfortunately
failed to reach you before you were obliged
to go to press. Waiving consideration of
the lesser errors which have thus arisen, I
write you this letter as my only means of
correcting the one of greatest importance.
In speaking of France, I said that it could
not be used as an example to show that ad-
vanced civilization lessens the rate of in-
crease of population, because, although " the
French annual rate of increase sank very
low during the four or five years previous to
the Prussian War, being only seven per thou-
sand inhabitants in 1870, it has since then
steadily risen and in 1890 was thirty-seven
per thousand."
At the time I was writing, the statistics
obtainable in this country seemed to bear me
out in the above assertion. But since then
we have the French statistics down through
1893, which show that the population has
again declined. It is rather strange, by the
way, that some of these statistics should be
so uncertain. For example, some authorities
tell us that in 1890 the French population in-
creased 38,446, and others tell us that in
that year it diminished by that same figure.
But, nevertheless, the statistics taken as a
whole seem to show a decided falling off
since 1890. This, however, does not alter
my main argument, and if my corrections
had been in time the passage above quoted,
and the paragraph in which it occurs, would
have been replaced by the following :
" But civilization is a broad term and has
different meanings in different countries.
While it may be true that the form of civili-
zation which prevails in France, or certain
ideas and habits of the French people, may
cause a decrease in population, it does not
necessarily follow that civilization in other
countries has that effect ; and as a matter of
fact it does not."
I should also have inserted this :
" More than one hundred years ago
Franklin noticed that countries many of
whose people migrate are not thereby de-
populated, but on the contrary often increase
their population much more rapidly than
would be expected. His observation has
been confirmed by later experience (Mayo-
Smith's Statistics and Sociology, pp. 319, 336).
The emigration merely makes room for a
greater number of births, so that population
increases as fast as it otherwise would, if not
faster. It is the country to which the emi-
grant goes that is more likely to suffer. Im-
migrants take the place which would other-
wise be filled by the natural increase of the
natives. The pressure of the immigration
decreases the size of the native families ; and
in the case of the United States, although
the foreigner may, under many circumstances,
have a higher birth-rate, yet the mortality
among his children is so much greater than
among the children of the natives that there
is no gain in population."
Yours truly, Sydnky G. Fisher.
December 1, 1895.
%tXxtox's TnUc.
PAUSE, PEEHAPS, NOT REACTION.
IT is freely alleged in various quar-
ters, occasionally with regret but
more frequently with more or less ex-
ultation, that the present is a period
of intellectual reaction. Science, it
is said by some, has been moving too
fast and has not made good its more
advanced positions. It has attacked
questions that were beyond its grasp,
and has had to retire in discomfiture.
It has made promises to mankind
which it has not fulfilled, and which
evidently it is not going to fulfill. Its
watchwords have lost their power
so we are assured and the comfort-
