PRIMIGENIAL SKELETONS. 25
tions. But such a change in one portion of the earth would not
be likely to take place without a coincident change everywhere
else. While ice lay over a great portion of the earth, the rest of
its surface may have possessed a temperate or almost semitropical
climate, of peculiarly equable character the whole year round.
The race of men born in such a zone would probably be hardy
and strong, and this is precisely what we suppose our first ances-
tors to have been. But, though in what appear such favored
conditions, they have left to us, in nearly all the races that have
sprung from them over the whole world, a tradition of a great
catastrophe a flood. The chiefs of the then world, it seems, were
saved, and, whether in one ark, or in several strangely and won-
derfully built vessels, were preserved to again spread the human
race. But how came this flood, and when ? And why should
immense quantities of rain descend, and why should the seas rise
in every direction ? If we refer to the probable cause of the Gla-
cial period, we shall also see the origin of the flood. It is, we
believe, an accepted theory that the mountain ranges of the globe
were formed by the shrinking of the earth's crust. This was
caused by the diminishing lava or molten earth within having
contracted at length to such an extent as to have been often re-
moved during the globe's rotation on its axis far away from the
still self-supporting crust, till a stage was at length reached when
the outer crust became so cold that ice gradually formed over all
those parts that were furthest from the molten liquid. At the two
poles that is, furthest from the greatest sunshine, as also from
the lava (since the latter would be naturally drawn round with
the velocity of the equator, and therefore would be furthest from
the poles and nearest to the equator) there was the greatest
abundance of ice. After many centuries of this there came a
time when the crust could no longer support itself ; the strain of
the internal lava beating loosely within was too great at times ;
great convulsions shook the earth's surface, the crust breaking in
long lines, and forcing up huge mountain ridges covered with
gigantic blocks of ice that rose thousands of feet high. The crust,
diminished in extent, again touched the molten lava, the ice
melted, volcanoes arose, steam escaped from the cracks, the whole
range of the Andes poured forth clouds of steam, the earth again
became warm. But what then happened ? The water that was
formed by the melting ice, that had not risen in steam to the
clouds, spread at once over the lessened area of the earth's surface ;
the seas rose in every direction and' chilled the air ; and thus the
earth's outermost surface also once more cooling somewhat, the
vapor or clouds dispersed around descended again in torrents to
add to the great sea already spreading between the newly raised
and the ancient mountain ranges of the earth. This, then, is the
