EDITOR'S TABLE.
413
able doctrines of the past are in a fair
way to recover their former prestige
and influence. It is needless to say
that we do not accept this view of the
situation. In cosmic and in human
affairs there is certainly a law of
rhythm, as Mr. Spencer has so copi-
ously proved in a celebrated chapter ;
but rhythm is one thing and reversal
of a main movement is another.
There will come times when men will
in a measure tire of speculation, and
seek rather to rest in a partial conclu-
sion than to pursue further voyages
of discovery into the uniinown ; and
such a time may be expected after a
period of active and rapid theoretical
advance. At such a moment of lull
it is not surprising if the Philistines
of the intellectual world, who had
been more or less in hiding while the
forward movement was at its greatest
intensity, should venture from their
fastnesses and indulge in a few songs
of triumph ; but this need not dis-
turb the serenity of the army of prog-
ress. In due time the order to
march will be given, and then the
Philistines will keep out of the way.
Such, we think, is the situation at
the present time. The third quarter of
the century ^as a period of almost if
not of quite unparalleled scientific ac-
tivity. It gave birth to the most im-
portant work of Spencer, Darwin, and
the rest of the evolutionist school.
It brought important discoveries in
chemistry and biology, and rendered
a great deal of so-called orthodox
opinion in many departments of
knowledge forever obsolete. The im-
petus of this great movement last-
ed undiminished for several years
longer, and, if it has now slackened
in any degree, it is that the specific
need of the present day is rather a
careful survey and classification of
the results already obtained than a
further development of theory. We
want to know just where we are be-
fore we start again. To say that no
opinions which were held with a good
deal of confidence ten or twenty
years ago have undergone any modi-
fication would be foolish. That is
not the way in which science ad-
vances ; it advances through constant
rectification of its observations and
adjustments of its point of view. A
change of opinion may involve loss,
perhaps fatal loss, to a system of
thought founded on authority, but
it means no loss to science, whose
vitality can never be impaired by ad-
ditional knowledge. As Mr. Spen-
cer has lately found occasion to say,
there may be much difi^erence of
opinion as to how species originate,
but this does uot in the least invali-
date the great law of evolution,
which finds illustrations on exery
page of the book of Nature. The
heritage of Darwin may be divided,
but at least no part of it is in posses-
sion of an antiscientific or antinatu-
ralistic school. All who to-day grap-
ple with the question of the origin
of species do so on a basis of purely
scientific observation and reasoning;
and even if the problem had to be
given up as too obscure and it is
quite possible that we do not even
yet know how obscure it is it would
still remain a problem of science,
not a problem of theology or meta-
physics.
One most important characteristic
of science is that it can never really
be idle. If it is not doing one thing,
it is doing another; and its humbler
work or what seems so may be
not less useful, may indeed be more
useful, than its more ambitious ef-
forts. There is no department of
natui'al knowledge that is not day
by day receiving accretions which
all go to better in some way the
position of man upon the earth. It
will do no harm if for a time there
is less vague talk in regard to the
theoretical conquests of science: but
there need be no abatement of the
