414
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
confidence with which we hold that
science is the power which trans-
forms impressions of sense into
conclusions of reason, which alone
throws light on the constitution of
the world in which we live, and
which confers upon all human efi'ort
its highest possible efficiency. Know-
ing this, we know that the so-called
" bankruptcy of science " is a contra-
diction in terms, the flippant inven-
tion of those with whom the wish is
father to the thought. In a word, all
is well; for whether the time be seed-
time or harvest, whether the field, as
we see it, be lying fallow or carrying
a bounteous crop, science, the one
abiding power and principle of fer-
tility, is present with mankind, and
its promise will not fail.
THE PROBLEM OF LIFE.
In the October num-ber of the In-
ternational Journal of Ethics Prof.
William James, of Harvard, comes
forward with his contribution to the
much-discussed question, " Is Life
Worth Living ? " The conclusion, a
sufficiently simple one, at which
Prof. James arrives, is that life may
be made worth living ; but he only
arrives at this very true conclusion
after a considerable amount of labo-
rious and, in our opinion, not wholly
sound argumentation. It may be
worth while, therefore, to go over
the ground so far as it can be done
within our narrow limits and see
what view can reasonably be taken
of the whole subject.
We are told by the writer men-
tioned that there are two recogniza-
ble soui'ces of pessimism or, in other
words, of the feeling that life is not
worth living sensualism and over-
study, particularly of an abstract
kind. It seems to us that a statement
of this kind irresistibly suggests the
corollary that pessimism, with its
sickening dou.bts as to the value of
life, may be avoided by avoiding its
causes. Then, if so, why discuss it
as if it were a substantive system of
philosophy ? It either is or is not a
pathological condition : if it is, let
us seek to remove it ; if it is not, then
it is all right. '' It is a remarkable
fact," says Prof. James at a later
point in his article, " that sufferings
and hardships do not, as a rule, abate
the love of life ; they seem, on the
contrary, usually to give it a keener
zest. The sovereign source of melan-
choly is repletion." Very true again ;
but what is the lesson ? Simply that
we should not abandon ourselves to
repletion, and that in the interest of
our children we should not satiate
them with enjoyments. But else-
where (page 7) the professor tells us
that "pessimism is essentially a reli-
gious disease," consisting, in the form
at least in which it attacks over-re-
flective minds, " in nothing but a re-
ligious demand to which there comes
no normal religious reply." This, of
course, sounds very philosoijhical ;
but it does not seem to be quite in
agreement with the proposition so
distinctly laid down, that pessimism
may spring either from sensualism
or from overstudy " grubbing," as
the writer expresses it, "in the ab-
stract root of things." Supposing he
who has been so "grubbing" stops
doing it, or stops doing it in excess,
and, by proper attention to hygiene,
gets himself into capital physical and
mental condition, what then becomes
of the religious disease ? Will it not
vanish with its cause ?
We fail to see, however, why pes-
simism should be considered as a re-
ligious disease in the case of the over-
studious man and not i n that of the
over-sensual ? By different routes
both have arrived at the same goal
exhaustion ; and it is hard to see why
the pessimism of the one should have
a more religious character than that
of the other. Each has been bi*ought
