EDITOR'S TABLE.
415
throiagti his own injudicious courses
into the same morbid condition of
mind ; each, consequently, on the
sti'ength of his own feelings asserts
that life is not worth living ; and
each says what is not true. Each in
his own way has disturbed, if not de-
stroyed, the natural balance of his
faculties and functions, so placing
himself in a wrong and painful rela-
tion to the woi'ld in which he lives ;
and the true remedy would therefore
seem to lie in undoing, if it be at all
possible, the mischief that has been
done. To trace pessimism, as Prof.
James does, to certain specific causes,
and then to propose to cure it by the
application of a religious theory, is
a little too much like trying to stay
a pestilence by prayer instead of by
sanitary measures. Supposing that
a pestilence due to natural causes
could be stayed by prayer, it would
require a perpetual miracle to keep
it from breaking out again so long
as those causes were not removed.
Therefore, before we can follow Prof.
James in seeking a religious remedy
for pessimism, we must unlearn the
lesson he has himself taught us, that
its origin may be found in such
avoidable errors as undue self-indul-
gence (repletion), sensualism, and
overstudy. A dyspeptic takes very
gloomy views of human affairs, but
what is the use of arguing with him ?
What he wants is new life in his
digestive organs. Pessimism, as a
creed, will only deserve to be argued
with when it can be shown that it
claims its victims, not less among
those who have wisely husbanded
their powers and in every way re-
spected the laws of life, than among
those who have wasted their sub-
stance and set the laws of life at de-
fiance.
It is evident that Prof. James has
been so far affected by the pessimism
of studious souls as to have conceived
a very unfavorable opinion of the
apparent order of the universe. He
does not, however, give us as clear-
ly to understand as we could wish
wherein this somewhat extensive in-
stitution fails to meet his private
views what he would like it to be
that it is not, or not to be that it is.
He quotes with evident sympathy
some appalling verses by the author
of The City of Dreadful Night-
verses which would have almost sent
a shudder through the rebellious soul
of Omar Khayam himself; and he
tells us that he fairly rejoices over
the downfall of that form of natural
religion fit only for backward and
barbaric peoples which consists in
" the worship of the God of Nature,
simply taken as such." "There were
times," he says, " when Leibnitzes,
with their heads buried in monstrous
wigs, could compose Theodicies, and
when stall-fed officials of an estab-
lished church could prove by the
valves of the heart and the round
ligament of the hip joint the exist-
ence of a 'Moral and Intelligent
Contriver of the World.' But those
times are past, and we of the nine-
teenth century, with our evolution-
ary theories and our mechanical phi-
losophies, already know Nature too
impartially and too well to worship
unreservedly any god of whose char-
acter she can be an adequate expres-
sion. ... To such a harlot " (as Na-
ture) " we owe no moral allegiance.
... If there be a divine spirit of the
universe. Nature, such as we know
her, can not possibly be its ultimate
word to man." This, on the whole,
does not seem to us very convincing
writing for a Harvard professor. The
" monstrous wig " of Leibnitz did not
so stifle his brains as to prevent his
discovery of an admirable form of
the calculus; and, among the "stall-
fed officials of an established church,"
the first that occurs to mind cer-
tainly the most illustrious was pre-
cisely he who pointed out (Samuel
