4i6
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Butler was "his name) the many dif-
ficulties and perplexities which con-
front us in our study of the order of
Nature. What special advantage
flows from calling Nature a "har-
lot " we are at a loss to imagine ; but
we do not find it hard to imagine
what evil may ensue therefrom. If
that Ultimate Power into commun-
ion with which the professor is so
anxious to bring us has really given
us a harlot world in which to pass
our probation well, it would really
seem as if, to put it mildly, our edu-
cation has not been well provided
for. Human parents do not choose
such associations for their sons and
daughters. And yet, in spite of its
harlotry, " this world of Nature," we
are told, " is a sign of something
more sphitual and eternal than it-
self." It is also spoken of as ''a
mere sign or vision of a many-
storied universe in which spiritual
forces have the last word," and this
in spite of the assertion made in the
same sentence, that " circumstances
on the natural plane" create the
strongest presumption that life is
not worth living. Verily, " too much
grubbing in the abstract root of
things " does produce a somewbat
tangled condition of the understand-
ing, as well as an ugly bent toward
pessimism.
If we once settle it in our minds
that pessimism, or, as Prof. James
otherwise describes it, the suicidal
tendency, is a disease, there is only
one question worth discussing in
connection with it, and that is how
to prevent it. It seems to us that
the way is indicated with great clear-
ness and simplicity by the philoso-
pher who, anticipating the Harvard
professor by over two thousand
years, briefly announced that " much
study is a weariness of the flesh."
What does that philosopher fiu'ther
teach ? He teaches the lesson that
has never yet sunk deeply enough
into the general mind, that youth is
the time when the character should
be fortified against the trials and dis-
appointments of later life. His sim-
ple but expressive language may
perhaps be not improperly recalled ;
" Remember now thy Creator in the
days of thy youth, while the evil
days come not, nor the years draw
nigh when thou shalt say, I have no
pleasure in them." Will any one
say that the doctrine of evolution
has rendered such advice as this ob-
solete ? It would be a shallow per-
son, in our opinion, who w^ould raise
such an objection. What the preach-
er saw and felt was that youth was a
period which, if rightly used, would
establish the whole life on sure foun-
dations. The remembering of one's
Creator means little if it does not
mean acquiring a knowledge of and
reverence for the laws which ought
to govern human life, the formation
of sound physical and intellectual
habits, and of pure and wholesome
associations. It means, if it means
anything, the discerning of a true
ideal of life, and the earnest and
loyal adoption of that ideal as some-
thing to be sacredly guarded to life's
end. Youth is the one period of life
that is fully capable of this, and
therefore it is in youth and only in
youth that our nature can be ren-
dered, as it were, immune against
pessimism. Prof. James may say
that this is taking a religious view
of life, and that so far we agree with
him. We claim that if our view is
religious it is also scientific, inas-
much as it takes, or aims at taking,
full account of all the conditions of
the problem. The difference between
us, however, is, as we think, real and
important. He prescribes religion
somewhat as a doctor would a drug,
as a tonic for exhausted minds. We
postulate a certain view and govern-
ment of life, not as a remedy for ex-
isting disease, but as the condition
