SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE. 421
the proposition, which many economists deny, that taxation can be based
on scientifie principles; in other words, that money for the needs of gov-
ernment can be so raised as to take advantage of the natural laws that
operate in society instead of running counter to them. The principle of
plucking the greatest quanitity of feathers with the least squawking is cer-
tainly antiquated and unworthy of a mature and intelligent people. Our
taxation should be scientific, and if the scheme advocated by Mr. Shear-
man really has that character, he has brought the right article to market.
Many pei-sons who are not prepared to accept the single tax as a remedy
will admit most of what he says in regard to the evils of indirect taxation.
He affirms that direct taxation is practicable, but of the three forms now
in use the income, succession, and general propei'ty tax he deems the sec-
ond useful only as an adjunct, while the other two, because of the pre-
mium they put on fraud and other objections, should never be used. A
tax on land he calls the natural tax, because it can not be evaded, and be-
cause its proper distribution is automatically determined very much as
ground rent is regulated by the market. In reply to the objection that
such a tax would be shifted upon tenants, he cites *'not only the entire
school of Ricardo and Mill, but also nine tenths or more of other economic
writers," as denying the possibility of such a transfer. In this respect he
notes a difference between a tax on land and one on buildings. It is ob-
vious that the landless class would be gi-eatly benefited by exemption from
all direct or indirect taxation. Mr. Shearman also maintains that the
landowners, taken as an entire class, would also bear a smaller burden
than now, because they would be exempt from taxes on personal property,
indirect taxes, and the cost of collection and other burdens incidental to
these modes of taxation. Some of the landowners would have a heavier
burden than now. Mr. Shearman estimates that this would fall on fifty
thousand of the six million families in the United States who own land.
These fifty thousand own thirty per cent in value of all the land in the
countrj^, and also get almost all the benefits arising from the monopolies
fostered by the present mode of taxation. He takes especial pains to show
that the farmers need have no alarm at the land-tax proposition, and
affirms that this plan, in addition to its other benefits, " would bring about
a just distribution of wealth, would give a perpetual stimulus to industry
and production, would greatly increase wages, would increase the profits
of capital, would give a security to property now unknown, would encour-
age manufactui'es, commerce, and agriculture, and would incidentally
solve many social problems which under present conditions seem almost
insoluble." Mr. Shearman has not made his programme attractive enough,
or, rather, he has not given it the right kind of attractions. The masses do
not want a just division of wealth any more than the classes. Every moth-
er's son of them is perfectly willing that a few shall have big prizes at the
expense of the many, if only he can be one of the few; and in a democratic
country, where it is possible for a poor boy to become president of a rail-
road, he is constantly hoping that next week or next year will bring him
some undeserved advantage over his fellows. Even if a majority of the
voters in the United States were convinced that any economic reform
would benefit them all, they would need to have the lottery spirit educated
out of them before they would adopt it.
