4?z
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
GENERAL NOTICES.
Since the establishment of the cell theory
by Schieden and Schwann in 1838-40, it
has been recognized that a clear understand-
ing of the processes which go on in the
body, both physiological and pathological,
and of their relations to parent and offspring,
can only be obtained through a study of the
cell. This study has thrown new light on
many obscure points in heredity, and has
revolutionized our theories of the " vital
process." Such books as the one before us *
are the cause as well as the result of such
investigations through their attractiveness
stimulating the student to renewed effort.
This one is a series of micro-photographs
taken from sections of the eggs of the sea
urchin and so arranged as to illustrate the
principal phenomena in the fertilization and
early development of the animal egg. The
photographic reproductions are accompanied
by a critical description and drawings illus-
trating every stage, and are preceded by a
simple introductory account of the recent
history and growth of the science. The re-
fined histological technique and the manual
skill necessary for original work of this qual-
ity are rarely at the command of the stu-
dent. He has to get his knowledge from
text-books, hence an accurate reproduction
of the various specimens is quite essential.
The photographs in this work were taken
with especial care, not retouched, and repro-
duced in the prints as closely as possible.
The book is unique in containing the first
satisfactory series of photographic representa-
tions of the early history of the ovum. Prof.
Wilson is to be congratulated both as to his
own work and in having so skillful a col-
laborator as Dr. Learning.
The author of this book,f who is the in-
structor in physics in the English High
School of Boston, has been before the public
as an author of text-books on physics for
* Atlas of the Fertilization and Karyokineeis
of the Ovum. By Edmund B. Wilson, Ph. D.,
with the co-operation of Edward Learning, M. D.
Pp. 32, quarto. New York and London : Mac-
millan & Co. Price, $4 ; lis.
t The Principles of Physics. By Alfred P.
Ga;e. Pp. GU, 13mo. Boston, U. S. A., and
London : Ginn & Co. Price, $;1.55.
the past thirteen years. His latest produc-
tion is characterized by a fullness which he
intends to be a protest against " smaller
books," " cheaper books," and " primers of
science." " Education in physics," he aflSrms,
" implies the presentation of the great truths
of that science in their unrmefilated form,
the indication of their relations to one another,
and the furnishing the student an oppor-
tunity of observing and exercising the logical
processes that have led to the discovery of
those truths. Any text-book that aims to
introduce the student to a study of such im-
portance and such inexhaustible possibilities
should not lose sight of this truth and en-
courage mere dilettanteism." Accordingly,
he supplements his statement of physical
laws by a store of concrete applications and
other illustrative matter. The book contains
a " high-school " course and an " advanced "
course, the latter comprising the former and
additional matter distinguished by indenting.
Some illustrative experiments are given, but
the work is not intended to serve as a labo-
ratory manual. A considerable number of
problems and exercises have been inserted, a
key to which is furnished to instructors.
There are nearly five hundred illustrations,
and a colored chart showing spectra and
combinations of colors.
An experimental laboratory has, with the
growth of modern methods of teaching, be-
come almost a necessity in the study of bot-
any. The book before us * is designed to aid
and direct experimental study. As to the
scope of his book the author says : " With
the rapid advance of investigation it is
next to impossible that an elementary lab-
oratory manual should include the latest
results, especially when the essential points
of many of them may yet be in contro-
versy, and need the critical treatment which
is certainly not within the province of a
work of this character. In the hands of
an instructor in touch with current botanical
thought such deficiencies are easily supplied.
The present work consists of a series of ex-
* Experimental Plant Physiology. By D. T.
Macdougal. Pp. 8.5, 8vo. Nevv York: Henry
Ilolt & Co. Teachers' price, $1.
