SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
423
periments selected to illustrate the habits
and life history of plants." The author was
the translator of OePs Pflanzcnphyslologische
Versuche^ and his book is the outcome of
comments and suggestions from laboratories
in which this translation has been in use.
The general form of Oel's manual is fol-
lowed; many cuts and a few paragraphs
from the translation are used ; but it has
been modified and reduced in size to con-
form more nearly to the needs of American
primary students. The text is admirably
clear and the expeiinients Instructive and
easily performed.
Prof. L, H. JSmley has compressed a won-
derful amount of information between the
covers of hss Ruh-book* While of most
Talue to the fruit-grower, truck-gardener, or
florist, many of its directions, recipes, and
tables are needed by every person who has a
garden plot or a lawn. It contains direc-
tions for making and applying insecticides
and fungicides, for preventing the depreda-
tions of small animals and birds, and for
making and taking care of paths and lawns ;
recipes for grafting waxes, cements, paints,
and glues, tables f weights of seeds, quanti-
ties required for an acre, time for planting,
time of germinating and maturing, directions
for keepiag fruits ind vegetables, for pre-
dicting the weafcher, for but we have not
space to give a fl! table of eontesits. This
is a third edition of the book, revised and
extended, and apparently well-nigh perfected.
We have not seen a better seventy-five cents'
worth of handy literature in many moons.
Educational methods are being so much
discussed to-day that any publication dealing
with this sabject is of special interest
Prof. Mwnroeh book f is a, history of the
changes which have come about in the peda-
gogisfs poent of view since the Renaissance.
He sketches the revolt against meditevalism,
with Rabelais as the moving force. Francis
Bacon does the same duty in the movement
against classicism. The author says that
Descartes was the greater thinker, but be-
Hieves that he was less of a power at the time
* The HorticuUurisfs BuJe-book. By L. H.
Bailey. Pp, 302, 16mo. London and New York :
Macmiilan &Co. Price, 75 cents.
t The Educational Ideal. By Jam's Phinney
Wunroe. Pp. 263, ISmo. Boston : D C. Heath
& Co. Price, $1.
than Bacon. In the fourth chapter he nar-
rates the do^vnfall of feudalism and the part
which CJomenius played in it. In Chapter V,
The Child has Senses to be Trained, the effect
of the teachings of Montaigne and Locke are
reviewed. The Jansenists and Fenelon, Rous-
seau, Pestalozzi and Froebel, and Women in
Education each have a chapter. The au-
thor's views may be seen in the following
passages taken from the last page of the
book: "The new conception of the school-
master's task makes the educational problem
simpler. . . . Comenius's * mother-school,'
' that should exist in every house,' is be-
coming possible ; upon the fundamental plan
of such a mother-school all education must
be shaped. It is no longer a simple question
of the intellectual value of this study and
of that ; it is no longer to be decided what
manner and quantity of information shall
be given; it is a question now of determin-
ing those subjects and those methods which
shall best supplement and carry forward the
training of character, the real education to
ti-ue manhod and true womanhood that is
or ought to be given in the home under the
parents' guidance."
Biology is attracting increasing attention
from stud^'Uts of science. In its study now
lies the chief hope of solving the questions
of heredity and organic evolution. The book
before us * is the third publication from a
series of biological lectures which are deliv-
ered every summer at the Woods HqU Ma-
rine Laboratory. The first volume was re-
ceived so favorably in 1890 that the authors
were encouraged to continue their publica-
tion. This number contains thirteen lectures.
Among them are Life from a Physical Stand-
point, by A. E. Dolbear; A Dynamical Hy-
pothesis of Inheritance, by J. A. Ryder ;
On the Limits of Divisibility of Living Mat-
ter, by J. Loeb ; Cell Division and Develop-
ment, by J. P. McMurrich; The Problems,
Methods, and Scope of Developmental Me-
chanics, by W. Roux; ana Evolution and
Epigenesis, by C. 0. Whitman. The book
is in no sense a popular one, and must find
its readers among special students of biology
and the related sciences.
* Biological Lectures delivered at the Marine
Biologicai Laboratory of Woods Holl, 1894. Pp.
287, 3vo. Boston : Ginn & Co. Price, $3.65.
