424
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Prof. A. Milnes MarehalVs monograph on
The Frog, intended as an introduction to
anatomy, histology, and embryology, was
written to guide and direct the student
through the practical part of this work,
and met a want the whole ground of which
was not covered by any manual existing at
the time of the original publication. It gives,
in the introduction, practical instruction in
the methods employed in biological investi-
gation ; followed by the application of these
methods to the anatomical and histological
examination of the animal; the frog being
selected because it is easy to get and con-
venient to dissect, and is a fairly typical ex-
ample of the group of vertebrates. The
preparation of the present, the fifth, edition
was Prof. Marshall's last professional act,
and was completed only a week before his
death. (Manchester and London : Smith,
Elder & Co. New York: Putnams, $1.40.)
An Elementary Textbook of Mechanics,
by R. T. Glazebrook, is the latest of the Cam-
bridge Natural Science Manuals to reach us.
The most satisfactory method of teaching
the natural sciences is by means of experi-
ments which can be performed by the
learners themselves. This book consists of
a series of such experiments which have
been used by the author in teaching his
classes ; the experiments are followed by an
explanation and an account of the deductions
to be drawn from them. (Macmillan, $1.25.)
Imagiiiation in Dreams, by Frederick
Greenwood (Macmillan & Co., ^l.'ZS), treats
of a subject with which most of us are fa-
miliar through personal experience. Two
essays, previously published in English peri-
odicals, form the foundation for the work,
which as a whole is a rather unscientific dis-
cussion of curious psychic phenomena, which
are in many cases closely allied, and depend-
ent on morbid and diseased conditions of
body and mind, and very probably have little
value in determining the normal working of
the brain. A number of queer dreams are
detailed, many of them the author's own
products. He thinks that the limits general-
ly set for the imagination are at times over-
leaped in sleep and that " some dream visions
are creations of the mind."
Volume XXXII, Part I, of the Annals
of the Astronomical Observatory of Harvard
College contains an interesting statement of
the methods in astronomical photography
followed at the Harvard Observatory. There
are also two chapters giving the results of
researches by Prof. William H. Pickering on
the Great Nebula in Orion and on the lunar
surface. The former was conducted exclu-
sively by photography while the latter em-
braced both visual and photographic obser-
vations.
Part I of Volume III of the final report
on the Geology of Minnesota is devoted to
paleontology, and is made up of contributions
by Leo Lesquereux, Anthony Woodward,
Benjamin W. Thomas, Charles Schuchert,
Edward 0. Ulrich, and Newton H. Winchell.
Prefixed to the special monographs which it
contains is a historical sketch of investiga-
tion of the Lower Silurian in the upper Mis-
sissippi Valley. The report is printed in
large quarto form, and the present part is
illustrated with about forty plates, besides
figures in the text.
Prof. N. Story-Maskelyne describes his
Crystallography as a treatise on the mor-
phology of crystals (London: Frowde, 12s.
6c?. ; New York : Macmillan, $3.50). In ad-
dition to giving full descriptions of the sev-
eral systems of crystallization, he discusses
the properties of zones and the varieties of
symmetry possible in a crystalloid system of
planes. He also describes modes of repre-
senting crystals and of measuring and calcu-
lating angles. While the author has deemed
it necessary to treat some parts of his subject
in the simplest form compatible with strict
geometrical methods, he hopes that his book
will not be found lacking in demonsti'ations
that will satisfy students with high mathe-
matical training.
In an easily readable little book Uriel H.
Crocker essays to point out The Cause of
Hard Tiynes (Little, Brown & Co., 50 cents).
He ascribes the recent business depression
and that of ISTS-'VC to overproduction, and
in supporting this view he comes into con-
flict with Mill and other authorities of the
past and present. One reason that he gives
why production outruns demand is that
owners of factories frequently prefer to sus-
tain a loss that may not continue so long as
to be serious rather than the certainly large
loss involved in shuttmg down their works.
The Brush Arc TJght Dynamo, by H. C.
Reagan, Jr., is a handbook for electrical en-
