426
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Seeley, H. C The Storv of the Earth. New
York : D. Appkton & Co. Pp. 186. 40 cents.
Shaler, Nathaniel Southsate. Domesticated
Animals. New York : Charles Scribner's Sons.
Pp. 2C7. $2.50.
Simeon, James. Discussions on the Gypsies,
and Do Snakes Swallow their Young ? Pp. 123.
And The Social Emancipation of the Gypsies.
Pp. 24. New York : Printed by E. O. Jenkins.
Snyder, Charles Porter. The New Cosmology.
I'ublished by the author. Pp. 16.
Stanley, William Ford. Notes on the Nebular
Theory. London : Kegan Paul, Trench, Trtib-
ner & Co. Pp. 257. ^s.
Stedman, Thomas L. Twentieth Century
Practice. An International Encyclopsedia of Mod-
ern Medical Science in Twenty Volumes. New
York : William Wood & Co. Vol. IV. Pp.841.
Tarr, Ralph S. Elementary Physical Geogr.v
phy. New York and London : Macmillan & Co.
Pp. 488. $1.40.
Vulte, H. T., and Neustadt, George M. S.
Laboratory Manual of Inorganic Preparations.
New York : George Gottsberger Peck. Pp. ISO.
$2.
Weekly Review, The. (Educational Periodi-
cal.) Ann Arbor, Mich. : Published by the Co-
operative Educational Association. Vol. I, No. 1.
Pp. 24. $2 a year; 5 cents a copy.
^ragtucwts ffi ^txtntt.
A Device for Geological Teaching. It is
now six years since there was issued a small
edition of an educational appliance invented
by James T. B. Ives, F. G. S., and appropri-
, ately named by him the Strata Map. Since
that time the inventor has made various im-
provements, and is now bringing out his map
in a more completely satisfactory form than
heretofore. Hanging on the wall it appears
as a geological map of the United States, east
of Denver, in the ten colors recommended
by the International Congress of Geologists
for the coloration of geological maps. On
touching the fastening at the upper edge of
the frame, the glazed front may be let down.
It is then found that the map consists of ten
cards, each of one color, all the cards being
cut away so that part of each is exposed to
view. The uppermost card represents the
Quaternary, and all is cut away except so
much as correctly represents the Quaternary
beds on the surface of the region. The next
card below it exhibits the Neocene areas in
the same manner, cropping out from under-
neath, and extending beyond, the Quaternary.
Then follows the Eocene, succeeded by the
Cretaceous, which again is underlaid by the
Jurasso-Triassic, and so forth. Finally, the
foundation represents the Archaean systems
collectively, and is seen exposed where the
well-known Archaean areas occur. The fact
of superposition of the formations is brought
home to the student by this device, while
denudation is illustrated by the cutting away
of parts of the several cards. Such resultant
phenomena as inliers and outliers are seen,
also escarpments, the edge of each card form,
ing one in miniature ; while by tilting or
bending the cards, dip and strike with syn-
clinal and anticlinal folding may be illus-
trated as well as couformability of stratifi-
cation. One important advance which the
inventor has made since the earlier output of
his work is the embossing of the Archaean
foundation and all the superposed strata so
as to bring the whole to a plane surface.
More recently Mr. Ives has been occupied
with the problem of constructing relief maps
combining strength and lightness with mod-
erate cost, printed maps being used to fur-
nish the geographical details in which relief
maps are often so deficient. One novel fea-
ture is the combination of distinctive colors,
to represent successive levels, with actual re-
lief. Regions that are less than one hundred
feet above sea level are colored buff ; from
one hundred to five hundred, light green, and
so on ; there being eight stages in all, repre-
sented by eight well-contrasted colors.
These maps are made of specially pre-
pared paper, and the means by which the in-
ventor contrives to emboss them while still
retaining the register that is to say, making
the printing on the map exactly correspond
to the mountain peaks and river courses of
the embossed foundation is a secret not yet
divulged.
The structural and artistic finish of these
maps exhibits the painstaking of one who
himself appreciates the value of his work.
They received a diploma and medal at tlie
Columbian Exposition, both in the Liberal
S..
