FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
429
owners to erect sea fish hatcheries on the
shores of their estates, and for rich mer-
chants to establish agriculture in neighbor-
ing estuaries, and so instruct the fishing popu-
lations, resuscitate declining industries, and
cultivate the barren shores, in all reasonable
probability to their own ultimate profit.
The Sage School of Philosophy. The
Sage School of Philosophy in Cornell Uni-
versity is devoted " to the free and unham-
pered quest and propagation of truth " in
regard to all those questions of human in-
quiry which are embraced by logic, psychol-
ogy, ethics, pedagogics, metaphysics, and the
history and philosophy of religion. Its aim
is to secare comprehensiveness and thorough-
ness. It is founded on an endowment by the
Hon. Henry W. Sage, the proceeds of which are
supplemented, when necessary, with appro-
priations from the general funds of the uni-
versity. Six scholarships and three fellow-
ships are open to graduates of Cornell and
other universities; four progressive courses
of study are given, corresponding with the
four years of the college course, and also
seminary courses in experimental psychol-
ogy, ancient and mediceval philosophy, mod-
ern philosophy, ethics, pedagogics, and the
history of religion. The students are further
free to select any of the courses given in the
university. A psychological laboratory is
attached to the institution; a philosophical
club has been formed ; and a periodical
the Philosophical Review is published under
the editorial direction of two of the professors,
assisted by their associates.
Face-Reading. In the acquisition of the
art of speech-reading by sight, the eye of the
deaf pupil becomes accustomed to certain
positions of the organs of articulation, and
he thus learns to understand the spoken
words of others, although he does not hear
them. In teaching this art, Lillie Eginton
Warren has found that the forty odd sounds
of the English language are revealed in six-
teen outward manifestations or pictures, and
practice in following them as they rapidly
appear in a face enables us to understand
what is said. Some faces differ from others
in strength of expression, and thus many
show less action in the lower part. Never-
theless, there is in all persons a general ap-
proach to a certain definite movement of
muscles, particularly when in animated con-
versation, and the trained eye notices what the
inexperienced one fails to discover. After at-
taining a degree of proficiency in this art of
expression-reading, persons seem to feel that
they hear instead of see the words spoken.
Reading our language in this way may be
said to be mastery of a new alphabet, the
rapidly moving letters or characters of which
are to be found upon the page of the human
countenance.
A Dream of Railroad Development.
Forecasting, in the Engineering Magazine,
the future of American railroading, Mr. H.
D. Gordon assumes that the lines on which
our inventors will have to do their work
hereafter seem to be far more clearly defined
than ever before. There is no engineering
reason why a speed of one hundred miles an
hour should not be maintained on fast trains ;
the objections are commercial rather than
technical. The chief obstacle lies in the
ponderous and wasteful mechanism needed
to generate the requisite amount of steam
under even the best methods. The remedy
may be found when electric energy can be
generated in a simpler and less expensive
manner than hitherto. In passenger trains
too many horse powers are needed to carry
each ticket-holder to his destination, and too
many hundredweight of dead material have
to be dragged along with him. Within the
carriage he is entitled to better ventilation
aad better light than he is apt to get, and
electricity is looked to to provide him with
both. Some benefit has been derived, and
much more may be reasonably expected,
from the experiments made in introducing
steel frames into cars, and otherwise improv-
ing their structural resistance to abnormal
shock or accident. Outside of the train, in
signaling, a considerable advance has al-
ready been made toward having the sema-
phore raised and lowered by directly applied
electric force; and the author anticipates
that it will not be many years before a train
may be seen through its successive blocks
by the glare of electric lights, leaving each
block in darkness as it enters and lights the
next. What has already been done in rail-
road invention in the United States is but an
earnest of what the future holds in reserve.
