430
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Ball Nozzle. Mr. Arthur Kitson, in
an address on the ball nozzle, published in
the Journal of the Franklin Institute, gives
the following explanation of its apparent
contradiction of natural laws : The problem
connected with this invention may be put
thus : Why does the ball adhere to the
nozzle when there is behind it a force ag-
gregating as high as hundreds of pounds
pressure ? The explanation usually given is
that the atmospheric pressure holds the ball
in its place and prevents it from falling or
leaving the mouth of the nozzle. To this
others answer that the pressure behind the
ball far exceeds the atmospheric pressure ;
for instance, there is an exhibition given
daily in New York with one of these nozzles
where the water pressure equals a hundred
pounds per square inch, and as the atmos-
pheric pressure is only about fifteen pounds,
it would at first sight seem that the excess of
pressure on the under side of the ball was
eighty-five pounds, and ought, therefore, to
expel the ball. The error, however, in this
argument arises from failure to distinguish
between the pressure of the water when con-
fined in the pipes and when issuing around
the ball. It is very certain that if a hundred
pounds pressure were acting directly upon
the ball, it would be blown out of the nozzle,
but it does not appear to me to act in this
way. When the ball is confined to the
mouth of the nozzle and pressed against it,
it is undoubtedly subjected to the pressure
of the water, but the moment it is raised
slightly from the mouth, it is no longer sub-
jected to this pressure, since the water is
escaping all around it. In this respect it
resembles the lid of a teakettle when the
water is boiling. By plugging the spout, the
lid will be raised by the steam pressure suf-
ficiently to allow the steam to escape at the
sides. The explanation that seems to me to
be the correct one is as follows : The ball is
acted upon by three forces : first, gravity ;
second, atmospheric pressure ; and, third, the
force of the issuing stream. At first, the at-
mospheric pressure is the same at all points,
and hence gravity has free play ; but as soon
as the stream passes through the nozzle, the
atmospheric pressure from the under side is
counteracted by the momentum of the issu-
ing water, and the ball rising to a point
where the water can pass freely around the
sides, without pressing materially upon the
ball, we have the full pressure of the atmos-
phere on the under half-side of the ball re-
sisting the force of gravity. The ball, there-
fore, simply serves as a deflector to divert
the current of water or to spread it out, and
the resistance of the atmosphere against the
ball suffices not only to perform this opera-
tion but also to sustain its weight.
It is possible that the density of the air
may also be somewhat increased under the
ball by the action of the spray. With a
heavy pressure, the ball is farther removed
from the nozzle than with a light pressure.
The same holds good respecting a heavy ball
and a light ball.
Native Sniphnr in Miebigan. Beds of
native sulphur are described by W. H. Scher-
zar in the American Journal of Science as
having been discovered during the past year
in the upper Helderberg limestone of Mon-
roe County, Mich. They lie from sixteen to
eighteen feet below the surface, between a
compact, dolomitic limestone and a calcare-
ous sand rock. They consist of a yellowish-
brown, impure limestone, containing fossils,
and giving here and there a strong, oily odor,
which, wherever exposed to view, appears to
be cavernous in structure, having pockets of
from a fraction of an inch up to three feet in
size. These pockets contain scalenohedrons
of calcite or tabular crystals of celestite, or
both together; while the sulphur generally
occurs in bright, lustrous masses toward the
center of the cavity, intermatted frequently
with the lime minerals. Fragments as large
as one's fist are readily removed. Some of
the smaller cavities contain nothing but pure
sulphur. Nearly one hundred barrels of pure
sulphur have been obtained from about an
acre of this bed.
Antirabic Sernm. In the light of some
of the recent experimental work of Tizzoni
and Centanni, published in the Lancet, there
seems little doubt that a great advance has
been made in the treatment of rabies. In-
stead of manufacturing the antitoxic mate-
rial in the body of the patient, by a process
of vaccination as in the Pasteur method,
Tizzoni and Centanni prepare this substance
in an animal, from which it is conveyed to
the individual to be treated, in the blood
