FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
431
serum as a vehicle. In place of using Pas-
teur's method of protective vaccination for
the animals from which the serum is ob-
tained, they, by a process of peptic digestion,
attenuate the virus to be used. It is pos-
sible by drying to prepare a permanent form
of this serum which will, if kept from air
and light, remain active for a long period.
It is very portable, is readily dissolved, and
may be used by any one who is capable of
sterilizing a hypodermic needle and syringe.
The treatment, therefore, can be commenced
almost as soon as the patient has received
the bite, and it is not necessary that he
should leave his home or his own medical
attendant.
The Meaning of Rate. Attempting to
frame a definition of race, Mr. W. M. Flin-
ders Petrie remarked in the British Associa-
tion that when only a few thousand years
had to be dealt with, nothing seemed easier
or more satisfactory than to map out races
on the supposition that so many million peo-
ple were descended from one ancestor and
so many from another. Mixed races were
glibly separated from pure races, and all
humanity was partitioned off into well-de-
fined divisions. But when the long ages of
man's history, and the incessant mixtures that
have taken place during the brief end of it
that is recorded, come to be realized, the
meaning of "race" must be wholly revised.
The only meaning that a " race " can have is
that of a group of persons whose type has
become unified by their rate of assimilation
and of their subjection by their conditions
exceeding the rate of change produced by
foreign elements. If the rate of mixture
exceeds that of assimilation, then the peo-
ple are a mixed race, or a mere agglomera-
tion.
MINOR PARAGRAPHS.
The Belgian Astronomical Society, found-
ed a year ago, for the advancement and pop-
ularization of that science and of meteorol-
ogy, has recently become much extended.
At the meetings in May, June, and July,
1895, papers were read on the history of
astronomy at the time of the Renascence,
by M. Doiteau ; on the observation of the
scintillation of the stars, by M. Vincent ; on
the application of the spectroscope to the study
of the constitution of Saturn's rings, by M.
Stroobant; on the theories of atmospheric
circulation, by M. Marchal ; and on other
subjects. A co-operative system of observa-
tions of shooting stars, clouds, etc., was de-
cided upon. An annual volume of the year's
results is to be published in November, and
a periodical bulletin has been arranged for.
A French journal, the Chasseur illustre,
tells of a Russian gentleman who, wishing
to ascertain where the birds go in winter,
caught a number and attached to their tails
a tube containing his address and a request
in four languages that whoever might find
the bird again would write him concerning
the place and time of the finding. He wait-
ed long for an answer, but only recently re-
ceived a letter from a European prisoner
captured by the Mahdi at the taking of
Khartoum, relating that a follower of the
Mahdi in Dongola had killed one of the birds
in November, 1892, and, not being able to
read the paper, had brought it to him. The
prisoner, in his glad surprise at receiving a
letter from Europe in so strange a way, em-
braced the first opportunity on regaining his
liberty to answer it.
The influence that the bearing of one
man or nation may exert upon another is ex-
emplified by what Mr. W. M. Flinders Petrie
said in the British Association concerning
the condition in the East, where an inter-
minable system of reprisals in defrauding
and exacting prevails. " The Egyptians are
notorious for their avarice, and are usually
accredited with being interminable money-
gi-abbers ; yet no sooner do they find that
this system of reprisals is abandoned and
strict justice maintained than they at once
respond to it ; and when confidence has
been gained, it is almost as common to find
a man dispute an account against his own
interest as for himself, and scarcely ever is
any attempt made at false statements or
impositions. Such is the healthy response
to straightforward dealing with them."
The purpose of the new division of agros-
tology in the United States Department of
Agriculture is investigation and experiment
upon grasses and other forage plants, in
