432
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
order to determine their adaptability to cul-
tivation and use in this country ; to inform
the people concerning them ; and to intro-
duce those which promise well whether
native or foreign into cultivation. A small
plot has been furnished on the grounds of
the Department of Agriculture on which
four hundred varieties of grasses and forage
plants are growing for the testing of their
qualities, and a larger garden has been es-
tablished in one of the Southern States.
The division has in preparation a popular
book on the grass and forage plants of the
country, also a larger illustrated handbook
on the grasses of North America.
A CURIOUS system of water cure is prac-
ticed by Sebastian Kneipp at Woerishofen,
Bavaria. Its most striking feature is the
importarace it attributes to the action of
water on the lower extremities. Patients
are caused to walk in running water or on
the dewy turf, or on flagstones freshly wa-
tered; and baths are prescribed without
after-use of the towel or rubbing, the bather
being instructed to dress himself as quickly
as he can, and let the reaction take place in
his damp shirt. The system is mentioned
by M. E. Bottey in his theoretical and prac-
tical treatise on the water cure (Paris, 1893)
as possibly affording the hygiene and regime
which some diseases require, but as danger-
ous in most cases.
NOTES.
Considerable attention has lately been
given in London to the question of the spread
of infectious diseases among horses through
the public watering troughs. There seems
good reason to believe that this is a common
source of nifection, especially for glanders.
One parish has gone so far as to abolish the
ordinary troughs and replace them by a stop-
cock and a pail.
In speaking of Prof. Ludwig, one of the
most persistent of vivisectors, Dr. Mosso
says : " Ludwig, the greatest of vivisectors,
was president of the Leipsic Society for the
Protection of Animals, and remained to the
last one of its most active members. Ger-
many owes to him that her horses and beasts
of burden are now humanely treated. To
him is due the awakening of the true hu-
manitarian spirit toward the brute creation
that culminated in the ' Union of German
Societies for the Protection of Animals.' "
Prof. Gharles S. Minot, of the Harvard
Medical School, has arranged a course in em-
bryology for students wishing to make -a
special study of this branch. The course is
open to registered students of the graduate
department of the Faculty of Arts and
Sciences, and will be offered hereafter also as
a special course to graduate students of the
medical school. The course extends through
a year of two terms, and will consist of lec-
tures and laboratory work. Students taking
th^ course will be expected to devote to it
not less than eighteen hours a week. For
persons having medical degrees the fee for
one term is seventy-five dollars ; for the whole
year, one hundred and twenty-five dollars.
Others must enter the university as graduate
students under the Faculty of Arts and
Sciences.
At a recent meeting of the Berlin Phar-
maceutical Society, Dr. Seidler read a paper
on the bacteria in mineral waters. He had
made an elaborate series of experiments and
found bacteria in all the bottled mineral
waters, artificial as well as natural. The
waters, as a general thing, were practically
germ-free as they emerged from the earth,
but bacteria developed rapidly, through care-
lessness in washing the bottles, corks, etc.
The mineral statistics of the United King-
dom of Great Britain for 1894 have been
issued as a blue book. The total production
of coal for the year was 23,125,983 tons;
the approximate price at the pits about $1.75
per ton.
The seventh session of the Australasian
Association for the Advancement of Science
will be held in Sydney, from the 3d to the
ICth of January, 189'7, under the presidency
of A. Liversidge, Professor of Chemistry,
University of Sydney. Communications and
papers for the meeting, or inquiries, may be
addressed to the-permanent honorary secre-
tary. The Chemical Laboratory, The Univer-
sity of Sydney, N. S. W.
Dr. Albert E. Foote, of Philadelphia, a
distinguished mineralogist, died at Atlanta,
Ga., where he had gone in charge of the
Pennsylvania mineral exhibit, October 10th.
He had been in feeble health for some time.
He was born in Hamilton, N. Y., in 1846;
was graduated in medicine from the Univer-
sity of Michigan in 186Y ; taught at Ann Ar-
bor ; and was for five years Professor of Chem-
istry and Mineralogy in Iowa State College.
In 1876 he removed to Bhiladelphia and be-
came a professional mineralogist and a dealer
in minerals and scientific books.
Prof. H. Hellriegel, an active and effi-
cient investigator in agricultural chemistry,
died at Bernburg, Anhalt, Germany, Septem-
ber 24, 1895. He was best known for the re-
searches into the fixation of nitrogen by legu-
minous plants, in which the joint agency of
microbes and nodules on the roots of the
plants was determined.
