43+ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Position of Taxation in General Literature. All gen-
eral treatises on political economy devote more or less space to
the consideration of taxation ; and there have been many publi-
cations in the nature of oflBcial reports, compendiums of tax laws,
and their interpretation by legal tribunals, and special essays on
particular forms of taxes. But, at the same time, notwithstand-
ing the vastness and importance of the subject, its symbolism and
exemplification of sovereignty, its influence for weal or woe on
every citizen and on every industry, according as the power in-
volved is properly or improperly exercised, and the part it has
played in history, its position in economic literature is so com-
paratively insignificant that there is not a single publication at
present in the English language which is entitled to be considered
as a full and complete treatise ; certainly none such as are readily
at the command of every person desirous of becoming reasonably
proficient in any of the other leading branches of learning. Prof.
Cossa, of the University of Pavia, Italy, in a bibliography of tax-
ation incorporated in a brief treatise on the Science of Finance,
published in 1882, and brought up to the times by an American
translation in 1888,* does not mention even one title of this char-
acter. And, although there are works on taxation more or less
general in their scope in other languages especially in Fi'ench
and German and to some of which high merit is accorded, there
are none which any considerable number of economists are will-
ing to accept as standard or authoritative in all departments ; the
chapter on taxation in Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations consti-
tuting the only treatise which can possibly be regarded as an
exception. f For such a result it is not easy to account. Possibly,
owing to the want of accord among writers on economic and
financial subjects, an opinion has come to prevail that no consist-
ent treatment of the subject, as a whole, is possible; that the
financial and industrial condition of nations or states differs so
widely that no uniform rules of practice for the raising of revenue
can be established ; and, finally, if such a code of rules were uni-
versally accepted, the varying necessities of nations would com-
the hour arrives when the mind is ripened ; then we behold them." Emerson^ Spiritual
Laws, First Series of Esuays, p. 139.
* Taxation, its Principles and Methods. Translated from the Scienza delle Finanze of
Dr. Luigi Cossa, Professor of the University of Pavia, Italy ; with an Introduction and
Notes by Horace White. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1 888.
f " It is well known that during the period from Adam Smith to the close of John
Stuart Mill's activity that is, for fully one hundred years English political economy treated
the science of finance " (embracing the raising of revenue) " as nothing better than a scanty
appendage. It is a significant fact that no work worth mentioning on the science of
finance has yet (1889) been published in the English language, though some considerable
contributions have been made to financial history." CohCs 8de7ice of Fhiance.
