THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN. 29
showed no physical or mental inability to endure the strain of
college life, and apparently lost none of the precious bloom of true
womanliness. But no sooner had the system become thoroughly
established than a whole world of new social problems was dis-
covered in connection with it. The primeval attraction of men
and women for each other was not obliterated by the higher edu-
cation. Conventionality stood aghast at the primitive and unre-
fined social life sometimes found within college walls. The social
tone of these new colleges could not be much higher than that of
the rural communities from which it came. It was not to be
expected that students from progressive but uncultured commu-
nities should at once be transformed into dignified, self-restrained,
conventionally proper young men and women.
Eastern scholars and teachers who went West to fill chairs in
these colleges were shocked at the crudity which they met ; in
their eyes and in the eyes of the cultured New Englander all im-
proprieties, unconventionalities, and crudities were the ofi'spring
of the vicious principle, coeducation. In New England, conse-
quently, the pressure of social conservatism compelled a less rad-
ical solution of the impending problem of woman's education.
Following the type of Vassar, Wellesley, and Smith were
founded still with the curriculum based on the old classical model
of Harvard and Yale, but with living conditions and social re-
straints especially intended to preserve and develop womanliness.
A liberal allowance of the classics, a little harmless inorganic sci-
ence, some music or art by way of sweetening, and domestic labor
as a reminder of housewifely occupations, constituted the regimen
of the typical woman's college. No inducements or opportunities
were offered for young women to enter any professions except
literature and teaching. Curiously enough, few women could be
found prepared to fill the professorships except those who had
been coeducated at Oberlin, Michigan, and Cornell, and to them
was set the task of preserving femininity by a harmlessly miscel-
laneous culture.
Meanwhile the great tide of scientific education had risen ; the
evolutionary theory had been proposed, attacked, accepted by the
greater scientists. New fields were thus opened to men, which
women as yet could not enter. That which they had supposed
would insure to them the highest intellectual life no longer suf-
ficed. In the larger coeducational colleges, laboratories and
elaborate scientific equipments were rapidly acquired. Women,
more conservative and true to the traditions of higher education,
continued to choose classical courses long after science had become
the most prominent feature of the younger institutions. Slowly
the women's colleges were compelled to add zoology and physiol-
ogy, laboratories and apparatus to their meager courses in science.
