THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
457
Grubb siderostat, a spectro-bolometer constructed by Grunow &
Son, and a galvanometer. These instruments, in the hands of
Prof. Langley, are producing remarkable results, considering the
inferior building and unsatisfactory site. It is to be hoped that
these conditions will speedily be improved through Congressional
appropriations.
HoDdKiNs Fund and Prizes. Previous to the year 1891 the
Smithsonian Fund had received only two small additions by gifts
or bequests : one thousand dollars from Mr. James Hamilton in
1875, and five hundred dollars from Mr. Simeon Habel in 1880.
In the year 1891, however, Mr. Thomas G. Hodgkins, of Setauket,
N. Y., made the handsome donation of two hundred thousand
dollars to the general fund, with certain conditions. In the for-
mal statement of Mr. Hodgkins, dated September 22, 1891, he
used these words : " This fund, to be called the Hodgkins Fund,
and all premiums, prizes, grants, or publications made at its cost,
are to be designated by this name ; the interest of one hundred
thousand dollars of this fund to be permanently devoted to the
increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge in regard to the
nature and properties of atmospheric air, in connection with the
welfare of man in his daily
life, and in his relations to
his Creator, the same to be
effected by the offering of
prizes, for which competi-
tion shall be open to the
world, for essays in which
important truths regarding
the phenomena on which life,
health, and human happi-
ness depend shall be em-
bodied, or by such other
means as in years to come
may appear to the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion calculated to produce
the most beneficent results."
To carry out the wishes
of the donor, the following
provisions for prizes, essays,
and the Hodgkins medal
were adopted by the insti-
tution, and announced in a circular issued in March, 1892 :
1. A prize of ten thousand dollars for a treatise embodying
some new and important discovery in regard to the nature or
properties of atmospheric air.
J. W. I'OWELL.
