460 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
In a supplementary circular, issued in April, 1893, it was stated
that any branch of natural science may furnish subjects of dis-
cussion for the Hodgkins prizes, provided the subjects are related
to the study of the atmosphere in connection with the welfare of
men : " Thus, the aiithropologist may consider the history of man
as affected by climate through the atmosphere ; the geologist may
study in this special connection the crust of the earth, whose con-
stituents and whose form are largely modified by atmospheric in-
fluences ; the botanist, the atmospheric relations of the life of the
plant ; the electrician, atmospheric electricity ; the mathematician
and physicist, problems of aerodynamics in their utilitarian appli-
cation ; and so on through the circle of the natural sciences, both
biological and physical, of which there is perhaps not one which
is necessarily excluded.
" In explanation of the donor's wishes, which the institution
desires scrupulously to observe, it may be added that Mr. Hodg-
kins illustrated the catholicity of his plan by citing the experi-
ments of Franklin in atmospheric electricity and the work of the
late Paul Bert upon the relations of the atmosphere to life as
subjects of research which, in his own view, might be properly
considered in this relationship."
Eight thousand copies of these circulars were sent to institu-
tions and investigators throughout the world, and applications
for grants soon reached the Secretary of the Smithsonian.
In 1893 two grants were made : one of five hundred dollars to
Dr. O. Lummer and Dr. E. Pringsheim, of the Physical Institute,
Berlin University, for researches on the determination of an
exact measure of the cooling of gases while expanding ; and a
second grant of one thousand dollars to Dr. J. S. Billings, United
States Army, and Dr. Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia, for investi-
gations into the nature of the peculiar substances of organic origin
contained in the air expired by human beings, with specific ref-
erence to the ventilation of inhabited rooms.
Mr. Thomas George Hodgkins died November 25, 1892, at the
advanced age of nearly ninety years; being, next to Smithson,
the most generous benefactor of the institution. A brief sketch
of his life is appropriate. He was born in England in 1803, of
highly respectable ancestry ; his early education was in France,
where he acquired language, habits, and manners influencing all
his later life. At the age of seventeen, led by a youth's love
of adventure, and seeking relief from domestic unhappiness, he
shipped before the mast on a trading vessel bound for Calcutta.
The vessel was wrecked near the mouth of the Hoogly and the
young man foimd himself penniless, friendless, and ill in a hos-
pital in Calcutta. While in this sad plight, he made up his mind,
so he said, to acquire a fortune and to devote it to philanthropic
