462
POPULAR SCIJ^NCE MONTHLY.
ends. After recovering he returned to England, then visited
Spain, and after marrying in England he came to the United
States in 1830. He immediately engaged in business and after
thirty years of successful ventures he retired on a handsome
fortune. The fifteen years following this he spent in traveling
over Europe and America, and in 1875 settled on " Brambletye
Farm" at Setauket, Long Island, where he led a quiet, retired life.
For more than thirty years Mr, Hodgkins made a special study
of the atmosphere in its relation to the well-being of humanity.
He believed that this study
was important, not only with
reference to man's physical
health, but even in relation
to his moral and spiritual
nature, and he hoped that the
concentration of thought up-
on the atmosphere and its
study from every point of
view would in time lead to
results which would justify
his almost devout interest in
the subject.
Mr. Hodgkins had no fam-
ily and no known blood rela-
tions, and, recognizing the
difficulties which often arise
over the settlement of large
estates, he chose to be his
own executor ; he therefore
gave away his entire wealth
to various public institu-
tions ; these gifts included large sums to the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, and the similarly named
society for protecting animals; and one hundred thousand dol-
lars to the Royal Institution of Great Britain.
Since writing the foregoing pages, the Committee of Award
for the Hodgkins Prizes has completed its examination of the
papers submitted in competition. These papers were two hun-
dred and eighteen in number, and were sent from almost every
quarter of the globe. The committee consisted of Prof. S. P.
Langley, ex officio, Prof. G. Brown Goode, Dr. John S. Billings,
Prof. M. W. Harrington, together with a foreign Advisory Com-
mittee, composed of the late Prof. T. H. Huxley, M. J. Jansen,
and Prof. Wilhelm von Bezold.
On August 6, 1895, the committee announced the following
awards :
TllUilAS (jLUItGK nuDGIilNS.
