464 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
Robert Stanton Avery, of Washington City, wlio died in 1894.
The property bequeathed is estimated to be worth about seventy-
five thousand dollars, and the income is to be devoted to special
investigations in magnetism and electricity.
Finally, the position of the Smithsonian Institution is that
of a " ward of the Government, having property of its own for
which that Government acts as trustee, leaving its administration
wholly with regents." Its most important function is to pro-
mote original research, reflecting thus the sentiment which occurs
in the writings of James Smithson : " Every man is a valuable
member of society who by his observations, researches, and ex-
periments procures knowledge for men." The advancement of
utilitarian interests commonly finds capital, for it appeals to the
avarice of man ; but the advancement of knowledge in its highest
and widest sense secures little encouragement from wealthy
men, and it is exactly this phase which the institution makes
its own. Its next function is to make known to the world
knowledge thus secured, for the benefit of mankind, and this it
seeks to accomplish through its publications and their wide
distribution.
The influence of the institution in local education is well
shown by the following circumstance : Some years ago I was
standing on the porch of the Norman building as two stout Afri-
can " ladies " passed by. One of these remarked, " Let us go in
there," pointing to the entrance. " Oh, no," replied the lady
addressed, " there is nothing in there but ' Prehistoric Anthro-
pology,' " pronouncing the words glibly and accurately. I lis-
tened with amazement, and pondered.
The changes in form which the bookcases underwent in monastic
libraries were described by Mr. J. Willis Clark at the recent meeting of the
British Royal Archaeological Institute. The first form wiis an elongated
lecturn placed at right angles to the wall between the windows, so that
readers might have plenty of light to read the books that were chained to
it. Splendid isolated examples remain at Lincoln, and a whole library of
them at Zutphen. Owing to the large space they occupied, these lecturns
were replaced by open bookcases with two shelves on each side. Of this
style were the bookcases at Merton College, made in 1365, which served as
the model for collegiate libraries in Oxford generally ; and it is clear from
contemporary documents that like bookcases were in use at Citeaux, Clair-
vaux, and Canterbury. The modern system of placing shelves against a
wall was first adopted at the Escurial in 1584, and was introduced by Wren
at Lincoln in 1675. At Triuity College, Cambridge, Wren ingeniously
combined the ancient and modern methods by dividing the library into
what he termed "cells," or places of study, formed of bookcases against the
walls, and others at right angles to them.
