EFFECT OF DROUGHT UPON ANIMAL LIFE. 467
instance of the effects of the drought was to be seen in a small
stream known as Pond Run. This is fed by scattered springs ; is
a stream of perhaps an average depth of six inches and a width
of two or three feet. Sudden dashes of rain swell the volume of
waters, but this accession is as rapidly run off. In ordinary
summers the volume is reduced to considerably below the esti-
mated average measurements, but the stream has not before been
known to be absolutely dry throughout its course. For a period
of five weeks the water from the springs along its valley were in-
suflicient to give it running water, and in many cases there was no
perceptible moisture at the fountain heads. As the water gradu-
ally disappeared, that portion of the stream's fauna dependent
wholly upon moisture, as fish, turtles, and batrachians, collected
in the pools, particularly those beneath bridges, and there by over-
crowding soon poisoned the water to which no fresh supply was
being added. It might be asked why these animals, except the
fish, did not seek other and healthier localities, but the reason is
plain. Everywhere about them was an arid region exposed to a
tropical temperature into which they did not dare to venture.
Again, while lingering in the pest holes into which they had
gathered, they had gradually undermined their strength and were
too weak to travel when, if ever, it occurred to them to do so.
And now back to the meadows. The last general migratory
movement was to the tide-water flats, and here, of course, the
moisture and vegetation were unaffected, and I have never seen
so crowded a condition as that in which were many of the streams
that were never quite dry at even the lowest stage of the tide.
The carnivorous fishes waxed fat, for there was an available
minnow ever in front of every pike, perch, and bass ; and the
grasshoppers driven to the creek banks, where alone there was
green herbage, were continually leaping into the stream, and
were snapped up before they could reach the opposite shore.
There was here, however, not such an accession of batrachian life,
frogs in particular, as might have been expected, and I failed to
notice any undue number of the mud minnow {Umibra linii).
This fact led me to make a few examinations of the parched or
semi-desiccated areas. I found in two locations, that I had never
before known to become dry, that frogs, of three species, and the
mud minnow had buried themselves where there still remained
moisture, but with a crust of dry earth above it. These frogs and
fish were like hibernating animals when exhumed i. e., soundly
asleep, rather than dead, and all slowly revived when placed in
clear, cool water. I estimated that they had been in their cramped
quarters for at least three weeks. Two weeks later, I hunted for
others but failed to find them ; but the day after the first pro-
longed rain I found the mud minnows in their usual abundance
