468 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in this same brook, which now had about one half its ordinary
flow of water, and the frogs were dozing on the banks and leap-
ing into the stream as unconcernedly as if nothing unusual had
occurred.
Possibly the above simple narration of certain facts may seem
to be of no special interest or importance, but there were two
features of it that do not appear to have been treated of in general
natural histories : the self-inhumation of the fish and frogs, and
the wonderful promptness of the return of life to the temporarily
depopulated areas. It does not seem unreasonable to suggest that
as long as these inhumed animals could retain their moisture
they could preserve their lives. Both the frogs and this one fish
can withstand prolonged deprivation of food. I have tried the
cruel experiment in one instance, and a mud minnow had no food
for seven weeks, and had only lost two fifths of its weight when
it died. As this is a period longer than the duration of any
drought on record, when fish-sustaining streams were actually
dry, it goes to show that this species is better prepared than anv
other to accommodate itself to certain geological changes when
they come about. Curiously enough, the mud minnow looks more
like a fossil than an ordinary brook minnow, is the sole repre-
sentative of its genus, and is the only species of fresh-water fish
found in both Europe and America.
While the drought destroyed much life, it more largely de-
ported it, and I have, in many years of wandering about my home,
seen nothing more positively wonderful than the promptness with
which every nook and corner was repopulated when the autumn
rains came. Vegetal as well as animal life responded at once.
The fish were promptly in the brooks, the aquatic salamanders
under the flat stones, and the frogs in their places, and on many
an afternoon of sunny October days I heard their croaking, as if
thankful for the return of the old-time conditions.
To a circular of the Royal Society asking for co-operation and sugges-
tions in making a subject catalogue of scientific papers, the Academy of
Natui'al Sciences of Philadelphia has responded tliat such a catalogue is
desirable, and that international co-operation should be engaged in its
preparation; that in order to secure uniformity in all parts of such a cata-
logue a central bureau appears to be necessary, rather than that separate
portions should be prej)ared by vai-ious institutions, such central btu'eau to
be under the direction of the Royal Society; that such a catalog'ue should
be classified, and should be issued at least once a year, each volume to be
provided with an alphabetical index ; that the scope of such a classified
catalogue should embrace the various yearly bibliographies of special sci-
ences now issued ; and that, Vv'henever translations or summaries are be-
lieved to be desirable, English should be made the basis of the catalogue.
