30 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
In 1886 two thirds of the senior class at Wellesley graduated
from the classical course; in 1890 more than one half took the
degree of Bachelor of Science.
Competition with coeducational colleges made it evident that
the women's colleges were offering almost no facilities for special-
ization and graduate study. To meet this deficiency, and yet to
preserve the distinctive ideals of separate education, a new com-
bination was devised. Bryn Mawr proposed to offer opportuni-
ties for advanced study similar to those afforded at Johns Hopkins
and Cornell, but under social conditions and restraints such as
characterized the women's colleges, thus securing womanliness at
no cost of intellectual development. Harvard Annex offered ap-
proximately the same courses under the same professors as Har-
vard itself, but with meager equipment and social isolation.
Barnard College, and recently the Yale graduate department, have
recognized the principle of coeducation in a restricted form.
The tendency to provide the same kind of education for
women as for men, and the desire to preserve that intangible
quality, womanliness, were constantly at variance in all these
different methods, producing some unexpected results. Here
and there women who were coeducated specialized. Perhaps Ph.
D.'s of Zurich, after a short and brilliant career, fell in love in a
hopelessly feminine manner, married, and apparently wasted all
. their intellectual achievements in cuddling babies and training
the immigrant domestic ; all this without any sign of discontent
or domestic tragedy. On the other hand, as many sweet, femi-
nine, docile creatures from the women's colleges, whose femininity
had been preserved to ideal sweetness, went into law or medicine,
declined to marry at all, and lived happy, unregretful lives.
The same contradictions were to be found among educated
men. The farmer's boy who had taken a course in scientific agri-
culture refused to farm and went into journalism ; the college
professor's son failed in the classics, but made a fortune on a
Western cattle ranch ; the orthodox became the heterodox, and,
behold, everything was topsy-turvy! Given a boy, a girl, and a
curriculum results : The boy a poet, the girl a lawyer, and the
curriculum something which had somehow missed fire! No anx-
ious parent or zealous professor could be sure of the effect of a
given training.
Into the midst of this uncertainty the elective system was
projected by one of the most conservative of Eastern colleges ; it
said, " Let him follow his bent." The thought spread like con-
tagion to the coeducational colleges, where traditions were less
fixed, and gradually to the older men's colleges as well ; but not
to the women's colleges. If a girl followed her bent, who knew
what might happen ? She might become too " learned for the
