472 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
There will be about that number of trees on an area of two hun-
dred acres.
Most of the turpentine farms are worked by operators on a
large scale. Small landowners can not afford to work their trees,
and so they rent or lease their forests for four years at the rate
of fifty dollars per crop of ten thousand boxes. The total expense
of working one crop is about six hundred dollars per year, or
twenty-four hundred dollars for four years. Few operators
work less than ten crops, which would make their expenditures
twenty-four thousand dollars during the four years. To this
should be added the cost of a plant (about four thousand dollars)
for working ten or twenty crops, establishing a still, building
houses and sheds, and buying tools, mules, and horses.
The amount of product gathered from a crop of two hundred
acres in the first year is about two hundred and eighty barrels
of dip and seventy barrels of scrape. This yields at the still
about two thousand gallons of spirits of turpentine and two hun-
dred and sixty barrels of rosin. In the fourth and last year the
yield of the crop falls to about one thousand gallons of spirits
and one hundred and ten barrels of rosin.
In speaking of the profits of the turpentine industry a veteran
operator said : " There is no money in the business nowadays.
Prices are too low. With the spirits at twenty-seven cents per
gallon and resin at a dollar and twenty cents, it takes a right
smart man to make much more than one dollar per acre."
The prices of all kinds of naval stores reached their highest
point during the late war, when spirits of turpentine sold for a
dollar and fifty cents and a dollar and seventy-five cents per
gallon, and inferior grades of rosin sold for four dollars a barrel.
This gave a " boom " to the turpentine industry of France, as pro-
duction in the South was practically checked for several years.
Next to the work in the pine forest, the operations at the still
are interesting. Here, by the process of distillation, are obtained
the different resinous products of trade, which go under the name
of " naval stores." The term seems to be a misnomer just now
when ships are built of iron and steel. About nine tenths of all
the naval stores are used in industries other than shipbuilding.*
If you go into a turpentine still when it is in operation you will
see how much care is taken to obtain the naval stores. You will
inhale the health-giving properties of the pine-tree sap. Your
nostrils are tickled by the pungent odor of the boiling turpentine ;
there is something strong and stimulating about the smell. Your
lungs seem to swell to twice their normal size, and, as one person
* Oddly enough, the term " naval stores " is not defined in Webster, Worcester, or the
Century dictionaries.
