474 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
hundred and eighty pounds, the hard turpentine two hundred
and forty pounds, and pitch, thirty-two gallons to the barrel. All
spirits of turpentine are gauged by the inspectors of naval stores.
Tar and turpentine barrels are marked and certified, and usually
show the initials of the maker's name.
Very few people have any correct notion of the number of
uses to which the products of turpentine have been put. Let us
mention some of the different ways spirits of turpentine enters
into the arts and manufactures. Many who read this article by
gaslight will remember when they read their newspapers by the
smoky light furnished by "camphene." This was before the
introduction and use of petroleum. Camphene is prepared by
mixing the rectified oil of turpentine with alcohol. Although
kerosene is now so cheap, the rectified spirits of turpentine is still
used for illuminating purposes in some backwood sections of the
South.
Perhaps the most common uses of the spirits of turpentine are
those in the arts, where it enters into the preparation of paints
and varnishes, and especially in the manufacture of India-rubber
goods. The paint and varnish industries take about five million
gallons annually, while the rubber industry requires about three
and a half million gallons a year.
But spirits of turpentine has other uses not so well known to
most readers. How many would enjoy their salad oils and other
vegetable oils, if they knew that they were adulterated with tur-
pentine oil ? How many invalids know that their medicines
contain spirits of turpentine, or that the liniment or ointment
which relieves their aches and pains is largely composed of tur-
pentine ?
Quite as varied and valuable are the prodiTcts of rosin in the
arts and manufactures. Do you know that the finest grades of
rosin are used in the manufacture of paper ? How many persons
who look at the printer's ink on this paper would say that it con-
tains rosin ? How many, washing their face and hands, ever sus-
pect that there is rosin in the scented soap ? There is rosin in
all these products, as there is in sealing wax, putty and sizing,
and in varnishes.
Two kinds of rosin oil are obtained from rosin by the process
of dry distillation. The light rosin oil is used principally in the
fine varnishes. The heavy oil enters into the manufacture of
axle grease, and machine and lubricating oils. It is one of the best
and cheapest lubricants for metal bearings in machinery, the
petroleum oils not excepted. The heavy rosin oils are largely
used in the preparation of cheap paints, such as are used to cover
metal, roofs, and so forth.
The product called " pitch " is the residue from the dry distil-
