GATHERING NAVAL STORES. 477
the weather, rain and sun and storm, and wears as well outdoors
as inside.
Here is the place to state that, until recently, architects,
builders, and engineers had a prejudice against using pine timber
that had been bled of its sap for turpentine. They claimed that
the bleeding process weakened the tensile strength of the timber.
This was disputed, of course, in the South. In order to settle this
important question, as the yellow pine lumber industry had
grown to enormous proportions, the National Bureau of For-
estry undertook a series of careful tests three or four years ago.
It was shown by experiments that the sap comes from the sap-
wood, leaving the heartwood unaffected, and hence the prejudice
against bled timber is not founded in fact or reason; in other
words, after the pine wood has been tapped, its tensile strength,
according to these tests, remains equal to that of virgin growth.
The value of the naval stores produced in the United States is
about ten million dollars per annum. Nine tenths of all the
naval stores used in the world come from the pineries of the
Southern States. The other one tenth is furnished principally by
the forests of France and Austria.
The most careful figures of the total production of naval stores
in the United States are those gathered by the special agent of
the Division of Forestry for the year 1890. They show the total
production of these stores to be three hundred and forty thou-
sand casks, or seventeen million gallons of spirits of turpentine,
and one million four hundred and ninety thousand barrels of resin
of different grades.
In order to produce this amount of naval stores it is estimated
that about two million three hundred thousand acres are being
worked, and that about eight hundred thousand acres of virgin
forest are invaded every year to supply the turpentine stills. At
this rate it will not be many years before the effects of reckless
cutting, sapping of timber, and fires will be felt in the long-leaf
pine belt. As a matter of fact, there has been a steady decline
in the production of naval stores during the past ten years in
every Southern State except Georgia, and there the increase has
been due to the opening of new tracts of timber made accessible
to shipping points and markets by railroads.
There is no doubt that the American process of bleeding the
pine trees is crude and wasteful, and that the turpentine workers,
like the lumbermen, conduct their operations on what has been
bluntly termed " the robbing system." What else is it but rob-
bing, when the turpentine operators strip the land of its forest
resources, and leave only desolate wastes ? It is now time that
our turpentine workers introduced better methods and necessary
changes in their business.
