478 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
Thus, it is interesting to note tlie care and economy with,
which turpentine farming is carried on in France. Tliere, trees
are known to have been boxed and bled for a full century, where-
as in the Southern States trees are seldom worked for more than
five or six years. The differences between French and American
practices may be briefly stated, as follows :
The French turpentine workman does not cut a big, deep,
broad box into the tree. Instead, he makes a small chip about
three inches wide, an inch and a half high, and only two
fifths of an inch deep, near the foot of the tree. This chip is
enlarged from time to time, and at the end of the first season it
reaches a height of about six feet. During the next four seasons
the chipping increases at the rate of about two feet and a half
each season, so that at the end of the fifth year the chip reaches
a height of twelve or thirteen feet. Only one chip is made on a
tree at a time. A tree that has been worked for five seasons is
given a rest of several years, and then a new chip is started some
six or eight inches from the old one. And so, by alternating
periods of bleeding and of rest, trees fifty years old and more will
be completely encircled by long scars or chips, and when the trees
cease to yield a profitable supply of turpentine they are bled " to
death" and cut into lumber.*
The French method of collecting the sap is better and more
economical than ours. Instead of having the resin or crude tur-
pentine run into a deep box at the base of the tree, as in this
country, the French gather the crude turpentine in a pot or pail,
which is nailed just above the old chip. As the sap flows only
a short distance, there is not much loss from evaporation, and,
besides, the product is cleaner. The chip is covered with a board,
a,nd this simple device assures a good yield and a clean product.
It is claimed that by the French or Hugues system the yield of
turpentine is one fourth larger than by the American method,
and the trouble of securing comparatively pure sap is more than
repaid by the increased price.
In brief, the French methods of collecting turpentine should
be an " object lesson " to our Southern orchardists, who carry on
their business in a most wasteful and extravagant manner. The
result is, if the same care and economy which are observed in the
pineries of France were taken of the pine forests of the Southern
States, they would yield an annual revenue second only to that
of the cotton crop. If to the naval stores be added the amount
* The method of boxing trees during their productive period is known as gemmage d
vie i. e;, "bleeding alive"; the "bleeding to death," gemmage d moiie, is cotnmenced when
the turpentine orchard needs regenerating. By this method of forest management the
trees are kept uniform, strong, and in good shape or condition.
