48o FOPULAB SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of lumber that can be taken from the pine belt, we have a reve-
nue even larger than that of the cotton crop. All this could be
done without reducing the forests of the South to any serious
extent. It simply requires good husbandry and common sense in
forest management.*
Perhaps the greatest loss and damage are caused by fires,
which sweep through the forests and destroy millions of feet of
valuable timber every year. It is estimated that the total loss
from this source alone is not less than a million dollars annually.
The greater part of this loss of valuable timber is wholly un-
necessary. Our j)eople take extra precautions against allowing
fires to burn their houses and buildings, but they view with com-
parative indifi'erence the destruction of millions of feet of timber.
The districts invaded by the turpentine workers are left desolate
wastes, and few people who have not been in the long-leaf pine
belt can realize the great injury that has been done to the pros-
perity of the South by an industry which is rapidly changing the
face of Nature and even the climate of the country.
THE STUDY OF INHERITANCE.
A Review of the Writings of Francu Galton.
By W. K. brooks, LL. U.
first paper.
IT is much more easy to talk about inheritance than to study it.
Of the books and essays which meet us at every turn, few
have much basis in research, but those of Francis Galton are
among the most notable exceptions. These books, which have
appeared at intervals during the last twenty-five years, are not
speculations but studies. They describe long exhaustive investi-
gations, carried out by rigorous methods, along lines laid down on
a plan which has been matured with great care and forethought.
The simplicity of their language is as notable as their subject.
Dealing with conceptions which are both new and abstruse, the
author finds our mother tongue rich enough for his purpose, and,
while the reasoning often taxes all our jjowers, there is never any
doubt as to the meaning of the words.
AVhen in rare cases a technical term is inevitable, some famil-
* Three years ago the Geological Siu-vey of North Carolina investigated the methods of
the turpentine industry and suggested a number of radical changes or improvements.
The recommendations have been adopted by many turpentine workers, who have modified
their old, destructive methods. Prof. J. A. Holmes, of the Survey, informs me that as a
result of these improvements the production of naval stores in North Carolina has been
increased by one hundred and fifty thousand dollars within the past two years.
