THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN. 31
common uses of life," The fear that she will not marry was less
alarming than the thought " men will not marry her." The elect-
ive system meant freedom of choice, the inevitable result of
which is freedom of life. Intelligent men saw clearly that an in-
telligent, highly-educated woman might possibly hesitate to sac-
rifice the pure delights of scientific learning for the pettiness of
domestic routine and the satisfactions of burden-bearing mother-
hood. Therefore she must not be too highly educated, lest
freedom turn her from her proper sphere.
In our day the cry of alarm has again been raised ; more and
more women are coming up to the doors of the colleges ; if intelli-
gent women do not marry, the future of this race is uncertain,
and civilization itself is in danger. Some would even make this
question the test of the varied systems of education for women, in
the hope of finding one which may be labeled, " Warranted not
to divert women from marriage ! " But the problem is neither so
imminent nor so serious as many suppose. Two thirds of all
women graduates marry ; the one third who do not are an infini-
tesimal part of the thirty million five hundred thousand women
in the whole United States. The one third in our day have, on
the whole, as good a chance to obtain a suitable training as men
in the same lines. They specialize and find growth and content-
ment in the sense of power and usefulness. It is not their destiny
which should concern us, but rather the destiny of the other two
thirds who do marry. The question arises, Does their college
training bear so definite and satisfactory a relation to their after-
lives ? I fear not. It is constantly impressed upon a boy during
these four years that he must find out what he is good for ; he
must either be fit or ready to be fitted to do something which
will have a definite market value. But the destiny of the girl
who goes to college is carefully concealed from her. During
these four years, who says to her : If you marry, you will need
biology, the sciences of life and reproduction ; hygiene, the wis-
dom to attain and preserve health ; sociology, the laws which
govern individuals in society ; chemistry, physics, economics, all
the sciences which may help to solve the problems which the
housewife must meet ; literature and language, the vehicles of
poetry and inspiration ? No one has the courage to suggest any
of these as suitable nay, absolutely essential to the successful
fulfillment of her probable vocation in life. Young women are
turned blindly adrift among a mass of subjects, with no guide
but a perverted instinct, and with many a hindrance in the shape
of tradition and ridicule. In all ages men have united in adora-
tion of the dignity of domesticity and the sacredness of mother-
hood, yet any loving, foolish, untrained, inefiicient creature has
been held good enough to be a wife and mother. We do not ex-
