THE STUDY OF INHERITANCE. 481
iar word is chosen witli so much, aptness that it does its duty and
presents the new conception better than a compound from two or
three dead languages. The terms " mid-parent " or " mid," " fra-
ternity," " nurture," and " Q " can not mislead or convey any idea
except the right one.
The reviewer's debt to Galton is very great, and it is acknowl-
edged with gratitude. Such acquaintance with the statistical
method as he possesses he owes to the study of these books ; espe-
cially the ones on Hereditary Genius (1869), on Natural . Inherit-
ance (1889), and on Finger Prints (1893).
The attempt to question Galton's generalizations may there-
fore seem ungracious and presumptuous, but the uncertainties of
vital statistics are proverbial ; and it is not impossible that Gal-
ton's data may fail to cover all the ground needed to prove his
general conclusions.
One of these generalizations is so far-reaching that, if it is
well founded, it must lead to profound and fundamental changes
in our view of the origin of species.
According to Darwin and Wallace, specific identity in living
things is the outcome of the extermination, in the struggle for
existence, of the individuals which depart too widely from that
"type" which is on the whole best adapted to existing conditions.
As these conditions change, the "type" is also slowly modified
through a change in the character of this process of extermina-
tion. According to this view, the " type " is the outcome of the
statistical " law of error," or the deviation from the mean, which
holds good in the environment ; and while the " events " are prop-
erties of the organism, the type is fixed by the external world,
and not by anything in the organism itself.
Galton holds that specific identity is not due to the process of
extermination, but to " organic stability." As I understand him,
he holds that this fills up the gaps made by extermination, and
thus keeps the type intact.
This "principle of stability," which is held to result in the
permanency of tj^pes, is said to be quite independent of selection.
" Genera and species may be formed without the slightest aid
from either natural or sexual selection." " Organic stability is
the primary factor by which the distinctions between genera are
maintained."
Galton holds, furthermore, not only that specific stability is
independent of selection, but that selection is " scarcely compe-
tent" to effect a change of type " by favoring mere varieties "
that is, by the extermination of the ordinary slight differences be-
tween individuals; and that it is only when a "sport" has made
its appearance, only when the type has actually changed, that
selection can exert any influence. According to this view, the
VOL, xLviii. 34
