482 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
agencies "which cause " sports " are the real causes of the muta-
bility of species, and natural selection can do nothing more than
to exterminate disadvantageous sports, and thus favor advanta-
geous ones.
The " organic stability " to which so much is attributed is
held to be due to the fact that the child inherits in part from its
parents, in part from more remote ancestors ; and since the sum
of its ancestry, or its " mid-parentage,^' is on the average nearer
than any exceptional parents to the mean of the race, the children
of selected parents are on the average more mediocre than their
parents.
It is quite possible that Galton's data may be valuable and
trustworthy, and that they may yet fail to prove this generali-
zation ; and I shall try to show that this is the case, although I
am not sure that I fully grasp his point of view.
I assume that he regards a zoological type or species as some-
thing ; something which is due to a " principle of stability,"
which is not the result of selection. This is assuredly the cur-
rent interpretation of his statements, and it is from this stand-
point that I shall examine his writings.
If this is not his opinion ; if he really believes that this "prin-
ciple" owes its existence to past selection; if he only deduces
from his data the generalization that the results of past selection
may persist after it has ceased to act ; I see no ground for criti-
cism, for his data assuredly prove this much, although I can not
reconcile his statement that " the principle of stability is inde-
pendent of selection " with the belief that it is the result of past
selection.
Before entering upon the discussion of the subject it may be
well to ask what evidence there is that the child does inherit from
any ancestor except its parents, for descent from a long line of an-
cestors is not necessarily equivalent to inheritance from them,
and it is quite possible that the conception of a " mid-parent "
may be nothing but a logical abstraction.
Most of its support is derived from the phenomena of reversion
or atavism ; from the appearance in children of ancestral features
which were not exhibited by the parents. While these phenome-
na are familiar and real, we may well doubt whether any of them
are reversions in Galton's sense.
In some cases we can prove that a so-called reversion is
simply the manifestation of a feature which is latent in the
structure of all the normal individuals of the species. The
occurrence of a distinct premaxillary bone in man is an exam-
ple of this sort of reversion. It is the outcome of the arrest of
normal development, and this arrest might have happened to
any member of the species. We do not know what causes the
