THE STUDY OF INHERITANCE. 487
some innate principle of specific stability whicli is an essential
and immutable attribute of each species of living things ; but the
accumulation of conclusive evidence of the mutability of species
has driven this conception out of the field. Most naturalists now
regard the type as nothing but that normal which is most per-
fectly fitted to the environment, and they hold that it is kept true
through the extinction of aberrant individuals by selection.
According to this view, which seems to be supported by ample
evidence, the stability of species is due to survival to the same
mechanism which brings about the mutability of species.
Galton is led by his statistical studies of vital characters to a
view which bears an odd resemblance to that of the older natural-
ists ; for, according to him, the principle of stability which results
in the permanency of types is quite independent of selection.
He shows, for example, by the statistical study of stature,
that the type of human stature is very constant from generation
to generation, although the statistics of marriage show that there
is no controlling tendency for persons of like stature to marry.
He also shows that the children of parents who are both tall or
both short do not on the average have the stature of their parents,
but are nearer than they to the mean for the race. These facts,
and others like them, are held to prove the existence of a principle
of stability independent of selection.
In his more recent work on the patterns at the tips of human
fingers, he says that since it has been shown (chapter xii) that
the character of the finger prints is practically identical in Eng-
lishmen, Welshmen, Jews, negroes, and Basques, the same familiar
patterns appearing in all of them with much the same degree of
frequency, and that persons belonging to different classes, such as
students in science and students in art, farm laborers, men of cul-
ture, and the lowest idiots in the London district, show no decided
difference in their finger prints, it seems to be proved that no
sensible amount of correlation exists between any of the patterns
on the one hand and any of the bodily faculties or characteristics
on the other. It seems absurd, therefore, to hold that, in the
struggle for existence, a person with, say, a loop on his right
middle finger has a better chance of survival or a better chance
of early marriage than one with an arch. Consequently, genera
and species are here seen to be formed without the slightest aid
from either natural or sexual selection, and these finger patterns
are apparently the only peculiarity in which panmyxia, or the
effect of promiscuous marriage, admits of being studied on a
large scale.
He says that results of panmyxia in finger-markings cor-
roborate his arguments in Natural Inheritance and elsewhere
to show that " organic stability " is the primary factor by which
