THE STUDY OF INHERITANCE. 489
be better able than the mediocres to crush through the thick
grass and foliage whenever he was scampering for his life, to
jump over obstacles, and possibly to run somewhat faster than
they. So far as he is small of his kind, he would be better able
to run through narrow openings, to make quick turns, and to
hide himself. Under the general circumstances it would be
found that animals of some particular stature had on the whole a
better chance of escape than any other ; and if their race is close-
ly adapted to these circumstances in respect to stature, the most
favored stature would be identical with the mean of the race.
Though the impediments to flight are less unfavorable to this
(stature) than to any other, they will differ in different experi-
ences. The course of an animal might chance to pass through
denser foliage than usual, or the obstacles in his way may be
higher. In that case an animal whose stature exceeded the mean
would have an advantage over mediocrities. Conversely the cir-
cumstances might be more favorable to a small animal. Each
particular line of escape might be most favorable to some par-
ticular stature, and, whatever this might be, it might in some
cases be more favored than any other. But the accidents of foli-
age and soil in a country are characteristic and persistent, and
may fairly be considered as approximating to a typical kind.
Therefore those which most favor the animals of the mean stat-
ure will be more frequently met with than those which favor
any other stature, and the frequency of the latter occurrence will
diminish rapidly as the stature departs from the mean.
" It might well be that natural selection would favor the indefi-
nite increase of numerous separate faculties if their improvement
could be effected without detriment to the rest : then mediocrity
in that faculty would not be the safest condition. Thus an in-
crease of fleetness would be a clear gain to an animal liable to be
hunted by beasts of prey, if no other useful faculty v/as thereby
diminished.
" But a too free use of this ' if ' would show a jaunty disregard
of a real difficulty. Organisms are so knit together that change
in one direction involves change in many others; these may not
attract attention, but they are none the less existent. Organisms
are lik^ ships of war, constructed for a particular purpose in
warfare as cruisers, line-of-battle-shii3s, etc., on the jorinciple of
obtaining the utmost efficiency for their special purpose. The
result is a compromise between a variety of conflicting deside-
rata, such as cost, speed, accommodation, stability, weight of guns,
thickness of armor, quick steering power, and so on. It is hardly
possible in a ship of any established type to make an improve-
ment in any one of these resj^ects without a sacrifice in other
directions. If the fleetness is increased, the engines must be
