THE STUDY OF INHERITANCE. 491
his ancestors. Speaking generally, tlie further his genealogy goes
back, the more numerous and varied will his ancestors become,
until they cease to differ from any equally numerous sample
taken at haphazard from the race at large. Their mean stature
will then be the same as that of the race ; in other words, it will
be mediocre." He illustrates this by comparing the result of the
combination in the child of the mean stature of the race with the
peculiarities of its parents to the result of pouring a uniform pro-
portion of pure water into a vessel of wine. It dilutes the wine
to a certain fraction of its original strength, whatever that
strength may have been.
He then goes on to the deduction that the law of regression to the
type of the race " tells heavily against the full hereditary trans-
mission of any rare and valuable gift, as only a few of the many
children would resemble the parents. The more exceptional the
gift the more exceptional will be the good fortune of a parent
who has a son who equals, and still more if he has a son who sur-
passes, him. The law is even-handed ; it levies the same heavy
succession tax on the transmission of badness as well as good-
ness. If it discourages the extravagant expectations of gifted
parents that their children will inherit all their powers, it no
less discountenances extravagant fears that they will inherit
all their weaknesses and diseases. . . . Let it not for a moment
be supposed that the figures invalidate the general doctrine
that the children of a gifted pair are much more likely to be
gifted than the children of a mediocre pair; what it asserts is
that the ablest of the children of one gifted pair is not likely
to be as gifted as the ablest of all the children of many medi-
ocre pairs."
In his recent work on Finger Prints he says: "It is impos-
sible not to recognize the fact so clearly illustrated by these pat-
terns in the thumbs that natural selection has no monopoly of in-
fluence in the construction of genera, but that it could be wholly
dispensed with, the internal conditions acting by themselves being
sufficient. Not only is it impossible to substantiate a claim for
natural selection that it is the sole agent in forming genera, but
it seems, from the experience of artificial selection, that it is
scarcely competent to do so by favoring mere varieties in the sense
in which I understand the term. Mere varieties from a common
typical center blend freely in the offspring, and the offspring of
every race where statistical characters are constant necessarily
tend, as I have shown, to regress toward their common typical
center. A mere variety can never establish a sticking point in
the forward course of evolution." He therefore holds that, while
specific stability is due to inheritance from a lo7jg series of ances-
tors, the transmutation of species is due to the sudden appearance
