492 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of " sports/' wliicli, if useful, are seized upon and perpetuated by
selection.
He says that a sport is a substantial cliange of type effected
by a number of small changes of typical center, each more or
less stable, and each being in its turn favored and established by
natural selection to the exclusion of its competitors.
" The distinction between a mere variety and a sport is real
and fundamental."
This generalization, based upon definite numerical data, is so
fundamental and far-reaching that a critical discussion of the
evidence is most important.
--
IMITATION AMONG ATOMS AND ORGANISMS.
By EDMUND NOBLE.
DURING the past dozen years scientific writers, American
as well as European, have given a certain amount of
attention to the part played in human life by imitation, with
especial reference to the conditions under which children acquire
from parents and associates the salient characters of individual
and social habit. But the examples drawn upon for illustration
have been narrow in their range, while the analogous j)rocess of
assimilation among the lower animals and in the realm of the
inorganic has received but scant recognition. It is proposed in
the present article to connect the three classes of jDhenomena by
formulating a general law which may serve, provisionally at any
rate, to cover them all, and then to group the phenomena in their
various natural divisions.
Without taking note of its unimportant and obvious qualifica-
tions, the statement may be made that all things free to move,
capable of becoming closely associated, and impelled to move-
ment by the system to which they belong, tend to come together
when they are likes, and to be separated when they are unlikes.
If we regard this tendency from the point of view of the move-
ment, we shall say that likeness of things involves association of
them in the degree of their likeness, and that unlikeness of them
involves dissociation of them in the degree of their unlikeness ;
while, if we regard the tendency from the point of view of the
things themselves, we shall say that association of things in-
volves likeness of them in the degree of the association, while
dissociation of things involves or implies unlikeness of them in
the degree of the dissociation. These truths may be expressed in
a more general way by saying that in systems the association of
likes involves the least degree of resistance among them, while
