32 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pect a man to become a distinguished engineer or a professor of
Latin by studying a little literature, history, music, and lan-
guage ; yet we expect a woman to undertake an occupation for
which, in this age at least, a certain definite kind of training is
necessary, without anything more applicable than " general cul-
ture,"
The want of co-ordination between training and the needs of
life in the education of women has repeatedly brought into ques-
tion the desirability of the higher education at all for a woman
who is to return to the home. As a result, there is a distinct
tendency to demand a differentiation in the education of women.
The recent proposal of a new type of woman's college is, in fact,
a demand for a separate technical school in which there shall be
a liberal scientific training with special reference to their domes-
tic occupations and functions.
This is, however, not a new idea. In all those State colleges in
which agriculture and the mechanic arts are taught a similar
problem and a like solution were presented. The farmers de-
manded that the agricultural colleges teach how to plow, sow, and
reap, rather than how to think ; as a result, many of these insti-
tutions are to-day little more than high schools, with manual
training added. In others it was perceived that, to make a suc-
cessful farmer or engineer, a man must have the power to think
clearly, accurately, effectively on any subject. The best agricul-
tural colleges give little beyond what may be called laboratory
demonstrations in field and barn, while the most progressive en-
gineering schools no longer attempt to turn out skilled mechan-
ics. Teachers of these subjects prophesy the complete elimination
of shop work and practical farm operations from university
courses, and their relegation to the position of entrance require-
ments.
Shall, then, the woman's college be a technical school, where
she may learn all the practical details of housekeeping and sani-
tary science ? It is the same problem, and must also be answered
in the negative. Technical schools, wherever outside the uni-
versity atmosphere, show a fatal lack of breadth. Physicians
with only the training of the medical school, engineers with na
ideas beyond their own specialty, farmers who despise pure sci-
ence, housewives who are only perfect housekeepers, are the in-
evitable product of a purely technical education.
While such propositions as this are being widely discussed,
the true solution is coming by a natural process. Within the
boundaries of the new universities a few courses are offered to
meet the specific needs of women's occupations. What women
need is not to know how to cook, and wash, and lay a table, but
how to think out clearly, accurately, and effectively any problem
