494 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
scious and complete knowledge of them, they are found to be
likes and unlikes, and are associated and dissociated accordingly.
The elements of coherent systems, whether of thought or
language, always have their relations facilitated by likeness and
impeded by unlikeness ; hence we find in such systems that it is
resemblance which is the bond of their union. Just as views in
science or philosophy, schools in literature or art, are related to
each other by varying degrees of likeness, the whole forming a
group through which each of the parts thereof is rendered intel-
ligible, so concepts and the words representing them are inter-
related by degrees of resemblance, and so every term we can use
is really intelligible to us only through its connection a connec-
tion of likeness more or less x>roximate, more or less remote
with all other terms whatsoever. This is true, moreover, not
only of all words as they exist at a particular moment, and are
in use for particular concepts, but also for all the forms through
which particular words have passed in their structural develop-
ment. We bring new words into existence by connecting them,
through likeness either of sound or of form, with words already
familiar to us; and such new words, when we meet with them,
become intelligible to us largely because of the likeness which
connects them with known and intelligible elements of speech.
When, moreover, a word is unfamiliar, the mental system rejects
it as long as it remains a stranger and an unlike ; but as soon as
the mind, insisting on assimilation, obtains the satisfaction it
seeks by change of form, the modified term, no longer meeting
with resistance, becomes one of the system of likes. It is the
same kind of assimilation as that seen in the use of Shofover for
Chateau Vert which leads races to spell any foreign word they
adopt in accordance with the analogy of their own tongue, and
children to construct such grotesque plural forms as "foots,"
" mouses," " goodest," and " bringed." That in nearly all lan-
guages the vowels within a word tend to be assimilated to one
another is a phenomenon encountered very early in the study of
linguistics. The use of metaphor, again, which is largely the
mental assimilation of a thing more or less unknown to some-
thing much better known, is universal.
Passing from the allied realms of cognition and speech to the
sphere of human relationships, we shall find that here also likes
tend to be associated and unlikes dissociated ; that the resistance
is greatest where the association is of unlikes, and least where the
association is of likes. At the outset we must understand that
likeness or unlikeness between human beings is a likeness or un-
likeness not merely in structure but also in manner of acting ;
not only in structure and acting, as these are popularly under-
stood, but also in thinking, in belief not only, that is to say, in
