IMITATION AMONG ATOMS AND ORGANISMS. 497
man systems in which they appear, and to be associated, in the
act of separation, according as they are likes to each other.
From whatever canses the unlikenesses which differentiate men
from each other take their rise, it is manifest that even in the
most minute of them the law of likes and unlikes finds illustration.
Perhaps the most common and familiar example of this simulta-
neous association and dissociation is afforded by the breaking up
of a social gathering into minor groups of likes that do not easily
coalesce. In all such cases the individuals who so naturally fall
into pairs or groups move from associations that involve the
greatest resistance into associations that involve the least resist-
ance, while the movement itself (given the need of association)
is manifestly the product of the stress of the greater resistance.
In what multifarious ways this stress is exerted may be easily
shown. As a small group of men surrounded in battle by a larger
force naturally come together and are compacted for defense by
the stress of those who attack, so the individual members of
classes or races despised, hated, or feared, when persecuted by the
community in which they live, are in like manner thrust and
welded together by the stress which they encounter. Individuals,
again, who differ from their fellows to the extent of being unable
or unwilling to work to take part in those co-operative activities
that are necessary for individual as well as social maintenance
meet with the resistances which failure in self -maintenance in-
volves, and are by them, though nominally by society, thrust into
hospitals or poor-houses; while men whose actions are unlike
those of others beyond the amount of difference permitted by law
are dissociated, either by exile or imprisonment, from the com-
munities which they injure. When expulsion of the unlikes is
not practicable, there is association of them as prisoners within
the system. Savages, again, often abandon or destroy individu-
als deformed at birth or incapacitated from social duties by age ;
even a comparatively advanced people like the Spartans exposed
their weaklings to death by starvation. That there is still a
tendency to offer undue resistance to the unlikenesses of physical
and mental deformity is shown by the treatment of lunatics and
criminals even in the most civilized countries ; not many years
ago positively cruel, it is still in many cases culpably careless
and inadequate. The treatment ordinarily given by human be-
ings to the lower animals ; offenses against the helplessness of
children and women ; the oppression of individuals by autocrats,
by governments, by official tyrants abusing power intrusted to
them by the people, and by capitalists taking unfair advantage of
the economic condition of those whom they employ these are all
cases of stress directed against unlikes. So shortcomings of men
of every kind veritable unlikenesses are in numberless ways
VOL. XLTIII, 36
