IMITATION AMONG ATOMS AND ORGANISMS. 501
expression over a mncli wider field, and finally gives character to
the whole social system. All rules governing the activities of
large or small bodies of men, such as regulations in factories,
hospitals and prisons, by-laws in cities, and general laws framed
for communities and nations, are manifestly means of providing
against unequal acting of individuals of securing, that is to say,
the like acting, under particular and specified circumstances, of
all the individuals associated. The sense, early developed, in the
individuals of a community that they ought to be equal before
the law, with the restiveness which they manifest under all in-
equalities of its operation ; the claim that men shall be politically
as well as legally equal ; and the demand always made, if not
always satisfied, for universal suffrage, first for men, and then for
women at first with limitations of race, property, or sex, and
finally without such limitations all these explain the progress
which the world has been making during the last fifty years
toward an ideal democracy toward a condition of ideal political
equality between the units that make up a human society as the
very condition and means of least resistance between those units.
But men do not remain satisfied with likenesses set up by
statute law, with resemblances imposed by a governing body.
They aim, more or less consciously, more or less outspokenly, at
a common degree of social well-being for all the individuals of
a community, and, rightly or wrongly, regard inequalities of
wealth, even inequalities of industrial power, as imperfect stages
of human development that are to be outgrown. Hence it is that
men denounce monopolies, and declare abnormally large accumu-
lations of wealth in private hands to be iniquitous, because inequi-
tous ; hence, too, it is that, in the common jealousy of privilege*
there is to be found every form of hostility to exceptional social
power and rank, from the dislike in which it is merely envied to
the anger by which it is openly attacked. Socialistic schemes
of reform are really schemes for diminishing those inequalities
which still offer resistance to the association of men schemes*
that is to say, for making men in social, political, and legal rela-
tions, in powers, privileges, and responsibilities more than ever
before likes to each other. Even religions illustrate the progress
from a belief and acquiescence in special privileges held out to a
favored few to an expectation and demand for the salvation of
all ; for if the pagan had to content himself with the satisfaction
of knowing death as the universal leveler, asking with Cicero
(Tusculan Disputations) "Can what is necessary for all be a
source of misery to one ? " the Christian, who claims the equality
of all men before God, looks forward to a life hereafter in which
all earthly unlikenesses are to be removed.
We shall next note that when unlikes are forced to remain
