502 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
associated, such "unlikes being kept together for longer or shorter
periods, the resistances which arise operate as a power tending to
assimilate them. This process of assimilation is manifested in all
degrees of our intercourse with others. Men rarely come into
contact with each other, even for special and temporary ends,
without feeling the molding influence of more or less unlike
habits, manners, opinions, and speech. Unless our ways of think-
ing, acting, and speaking are so firmly established as to be
unchangeable, we can not long remain in the society of others
without feeling that the differences which separate us from them
are gradually being worn down, if not disappearing altogether :
strenuous as our determination may be. Nature herself seeks to
lessen resistance, and thus guides us insensibly into the path
which offers the least. Thus it is (in indifferent things, at any
rate) that we gain our opinions and beliefs from those about us,
that we unconsciously acquire the gestures and mannerisms of
relatives and friends that, in a word, we come at last to be pro-
foundly modified by the more permanent characters of our human
surrounding. In speech alone the change wrought is often con-
siderable. Few succeed in avoiding the use of colloquialisms
constantly heard, and fewer still escape the insidious influence of
phrases and idioms peculiar to districts and countries : new-
comers may at first regard them as strange, even barbarous, yet
in the end they employ the novel forms as frequently and as un-
consciously as the native. The very features of human be-
ings living in close association with each other are known to
undergo assimilation. The fact, again, that jockeys, hostlers, and
cowherds sometimes betray more or less distant resemblances to
the animals with which they habitually associate is well known ;
and although animals do not in feature grow to be like human
beings by contact with them, it is certain that in the character of
intelligence, as in the case of the dog and the cat, as well as in
tameness generally, as in the case of cattle and poultry, a real and
profound assimilation of them to men has undoubtedly taken
place.
Fashion in all its forms illustrates the same assimilative pro-
cess. The first fashions are seen under the domestic roof : there,
children imitate their parents not only in speech, gesture, and
action, but also sometimes in opinion and bent of mind, and (for
the sons, at any rate) occasionally also in vocation. Men imitate
individuals as well as communities ; they borrow from each other
mannerisms of dress, of conduct, of opinion, and even of literary
style, Vv^henever attention is strongly called to any of these ; even
maladies have been known to become fashionable. A remarkable
exploit in athletics usually sends a fever of emulation through
the sympathetic members of a social group, just as a fashion set
