IMITATION AMONG ATOMS AND ORGANISMS. 503
in literature, science, art, or philosophy inspires a thousand imi-
tators. All composition, whether of prose or poetry, is in the
ground of it imitative a fact sufBciently suggested by the
grotesquely moral turn ordinarily given to college and school
essays, by the accession of literary power which always follows
much reading, and by the imitation of any particular author or
style to which great liking for one or the other inevitably leads.
What has been called the contagiousness of example is really the
power of a strong impression, and therefore practically of stress,
to produce likeness. This may be noticed at public meetings,
where people applaud or cheer gregariously, and do other acts,
such as those of sitting or standing, with obvious reference to
what others are doing. The ease with which a stammerer com-
municates his defect to another is a matter of common observa-
tion. Movements or actions of persons sitting together, such as
yawning, coughing, and the like, tend to be propagated more or
less through the whole of them by unconscious imitation. To the
same process is due the spread of more or less hysterical ailments
among a company of persons, such as the often-recorded mania
for mewing among nuns, or the propagation of convulsions among
girls in factories. Simple movements, like the shifting of a chair,
the rustling of a paper, audible change in the position of the body^
often follow involuntarily in others after they have occurred in
one of the persons associated. If in a thoroughfare a man be
encountered staring intently and conspicuously at some portion
of the sky, most of those who see him will at once direct their
gaze in the same direction. A man watching an athletic feat, or
a stroke at billiards, in which he is deeply interested, will often
at a critical moment imitate the attitudes or action of the per-
former.
The law is further abundantly illustrated by facts relating to
the lower animals. These find the greatest ease of association as
likes, and come together everywhere in Nature on the ground of
likeness. The general evidence of this is familiar, and mention
need be made here only of a representative example. In the
Falkland Islands, for instance, where the cattle have run wild,
and where they are of several different colors, each color keeps in
a separate herd, often restricted to one part of the island ; among
the wild horses of Paraguay, those of the same color and size
associate with each other ; in Circassia three races of horses exist
which, when living in freedom, always refuse to mingle and cross;
on the Faroe Islands the half- wild, native black sheep resist at-
tempts to breed them with imported white sheep ; in the Forest
of Dean and the New Forest the dark and pale colored herds of
fallow deer have never been known to mingle ; the merino and
heath sheep of Scotland, if the two flocks are mixed together, will
