504 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
each breed with its own variety ; Ancon sheep have been observed
to keep together, separating themselves from the rest of the flock
when put into inclosures with other sheep ; " the female of the
dog " (according to Prof. Low, an authority on domesticated ani-
mals), " when not under restraint, makes selection of her mate, the
mastiff selecting the mastiff, the terrier the terrier, and so on " ;
pigeons pair, when choice is free, with their own kind ; flocks of
white and Chinese geese, even when associated by the breeder,
keep themselves distinct. The fact that organisms prefer to asso-
ciate and breed with their likes is also widely shown by the habits
of birds. Describing a molluscan fauna in the Sandwich Islands,
Mr. Gulick says: "We frequently find a genus represented in
several successive valleys by allied species, sometimes feeding on
the same, sometimes on different plants. In every such case the
valleys that are nearest to each other furnish the most nearly
allied forms ; and a full set of the varieties of each species presents
a minute gradation of forms between the more divergent types
found in the more widely separated localities."
The recognition marks of insects, birds, and other animals
imply and involve the association of likes and the separation of
unlikes. The mimicry of one set of organisms by another, whether
the imitation be of color, shape, or both, is manifestly a means of
acquiring the superior ease of living which assimilation offers to
the imitating kind : the mimickers always occupy the same re-
gion as the species mimicked, and the resemblance wrought is
sometimes (Darwinism, page 25G) advantageous to both. All asso-
ciation of organisms involves likeness between them, and when,
by unequal conditions, unlikeness is set up in sufiicient degree,
that unlikeness involves dissociation of the unlike members of the
group, accompanied by the resistance which sterility offers to the
intercrossing of those members. The like individuals, moreover,
are only held together by the constant operation of assimilative
processes : one of these is the free intercrossing of all the associ-
ated members, whereby the individual is maintained true to the
average ; the other is the resultant tendency of the organism to
transmit and perpetuate only those characters due to influences
and conditions that are the common experiences of all the mem-
bers of a kind, as opposed to characters arising out of special
individual experiences.
The group of animals, like the group of men, expels unlikes
that appear in its midst. Thus ants eject intruding members of
alien kinds ; geese and hens drive away strange birds of their own
species ; crows and rooks expel wrongdoers from their midst ;
domestic pigeons attack and badly wound sick, young, or fallen
birds ; beavers dissociate idle members from their colony ; a
wounded herbivorous animal returning to its companions is
