CONSUMPTION AS A CONTAGIOUS DISEASE. 33
wh.icli they may meet in every-day life. As tlie numbers of
women in the universities increase, and the influence of educated
wives and mothers is more widely felt, there will be an adaptation
of university work to the needs of women as well as of men. The
now scarcely perceptible tendency to emphasize the profession of
wifehood and motherhood in its proper relations will be increas-
ingly controlling in all education of women. Surrounded by the
atmosphere of generous culture, molded by men and women of
varied abilities, guided in the special preparation for her future,
the young woman will soon be able to obtain as broad and as
specialized a training as her profession shall require a training
which shall put her in touch with the best of the world for the
benefit of her home and her children.
CONSUMPTION CONSIDERED AS A CONTAGIOUS
DISEASE.
By a. L. benedict, M. D.
A FEW years ago the newspapers were discussing rumors of
the advent of leprosy in this country. Many were appre-
hensive of an epidemic of this disease, whose very name suggests
all that is unclean, horrible, and loathsome. Although official re-
ports made it certain that the lepers who had reached our shores
were few, and that comparatively simple precautions could pre-
vent the spread of the disease, public sentiment demanded the
most rigorous quarantine and the sending back of those lepers
who had already landed.
But there is in our midst another leprosy whose victims we
meet, not outside the city wall warning us of their presence with
the cry " Unclean ! unclean ! " but who walk the public streets,
whom we meet in our places of business and amusement, in social
gatherings, and, too frequently, in our very homes. It is doubt-
less a surprise that consumption should be mentioned in terms
applicable to leprosy, but investigation shows that a close analogy
may be drawn between the two diseases. Consumption or phthi-
sis, as either word implies, is a consuming or wasting disease,
characterized by a progressive failure of strength and an almost
certain tendency toward death. Although the exact lesions differ
in different cases, the essential nature of consumption is in inflam-
mation, excited by a small germ which, magnified five hundred
times, is just visible as a minute hyphen, usually tilted up at one
end.
The same germ the Bacillus tuberculosis may lodge in bones,
joints, the intestines, the membranes of the brain, and, in fact, in
VOL. XLTIII. 3
