IMITATION AMONG ATOMS AND ORGANISMS. 507
where the medium is more accessible to us, there is more or less
suggestion of an act of dissociation by the system in which the
parts become associated. Thus an atmosphere overcharged with
moisture literally expels water from itself, first into fine vesicles,
and later, by cumulative aggregation of these, into the drops
which constitute rain ; so when the vapor of water issues from
the spout of a kettle, the air which it traverses condenses it into
the droplets visible as steam. Water thrown upon a dusty sur-
face ; molten lead let fall from a tower in the process of shot-
making; melted glass dropped into water all these assume a
more or less spherical shape under circumstances which suggest,
not only cohesion of the parts, but also repulsion by the medium.
The spherical shape assumed by oil dropped on water is not
wholly due to cohesion of the parts of oil, but is also due in very
large measure to the repulsive action of the water system itself.
A still more striking illustration of these acts of simultaneous
association and dissociation is yielded by mixing small quantities
of water with large quantities of oil : here the water, in descend-
ing, breaks up into spherelike globules, each of which exemplifies
at once cohesion of the intruding parts and repulsion by the re-
ceiving system. There is also to be added the evidence of smoke
and vapor rings, the forms of which are largely determined by the
action of the atmospheric system in which they are produced.
That assimilative action takes place within material systems
is also to be noted. Such action is of several kinds, and includes
(1) assimilation of movement, (3) assimilation of substance by
diffusion, and (3) assimilation of mass or structure, the latter
being divisible into (a) assimilation by change of form in the case
of gross aggregates rudely associated, and (b) assimilation by
changes of arrangement in the case of minute parts closely asso-
ciated. The simplest form of assimilation is seen when volumes
of two different gases are brought together within a closed recep-
tacle ; for, though the molecules of the two gases may originally
possess different " kinetic " energy, they undergo in association a
change by which the molecules of both gases come to have a like
degree of the energy of movement. What is true of gases is true
also of matter in each of its states : heat communicated to an ag-
gregate is more or less rapidly distributed through it until all the
parts possess, roughly speaking, like degrees or amounts of move-
ment; a mass of metal heated in a furnace becomes gradually
assimilated to the character of its surroundings ; by a precisely
similar process, the overheated earth radiates energy into the
atmosphere. There is also the assimilative distribution of heat
through liquids by means of convection currents : as the surface
of the sea becomes cooled in winter, the cooler layers, grown
heavier, sink, and are constantly being replaced by warmer water
