5o8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
from below. Vertical exchanges of temperature also take place
between higher and lower layers of the atmosphere, while the dif-
ference of temperature between the polar regions and the equa-
torial zone results in the assimilative movements of the general
atmospheric circulation. As ocean currents, like the Gulf Stream
of the Atlantic and the Kuro Siwo of the Pacific, carry heat from
the warmer to the colder regions of the earth, so air currents arise
out of those differences of heat and of barometrical pressure which
it is obviously their function, as far as possible, to remove. All
atmospheric movements, in fact, however local or general their
character may be, are either movements of direct assimilation by
which the atmosphere is seeking, so to speak, to bring all its areas
into like temperature and pressure with each other, or are dis-
turbances involved and arising indirectly out of such acts of as-
similation. It is only because the work done by these movements
is being constantly undone through the agency of influences, per-
manent and temporary, that differentiate areas of the atmosphere
in every part of the globe setting up, for example, unlikenesses
of temperature and pressure between the equatorial and polar
regions, between continents or islands and the surrounding oceans,
or between any area of the earth's surface abnormally heated or
cooled and the surrounding parts of that surface, as well as be-
tween seasonal variations in such inequalities that we have cy-
clones and anticyclones, tornadoes, blizzards, land and sea breezes,
mountain and valley winds, sand spouts and dust whirlwinds, as
well as various periodical and more or less local disturbances all
over the world. It should be added that meteorological phenom-
ena do but illustrate the wider interchanges that take place in
the ether system, since the constant distribution, as electro-mag-
netic disturbances, of movement differentially accumulated in
material aggregates whether such disturbances take place within
purely local limits, as in circuits artificially set up, or on a uni-
versal scale, as by diffusion from solar bodies are all cases of the
distribution of movement, and therefore cases of assimilation.
The diffusion of molecules through each other is also a com-
mon form of assimilation. Gases, if brought together, permeate
each other until a tolerably like constitution for every larger or
smaller area of the total volume has been reached ; gas distrib-
utes itself equably through liquids, as in the case of effervescing
drinks; solutions of salts brought into contact gradually inter-
mingle. A soluble solid, when introduced into a liquid, usually
assumes the liquid state to the extent of the capacity of the fluid
for taking it up, as in the familiar case of sugar in tea or alum
in water, while the liquid itself undergoes modification by the
equable distribution of the particles absorbed. The uniform
hardness of " hard " water, due to the presence of bicarbonate
