IMITATION AMONG ATOMS AND ORGANISMS. 509
of lime, and the uniform tenacity of solutions of soap in water,
as shown in experiments with soap bubbles, both illustrate how
equably substances held in solution are diffused. The evapora-
tion of fluids into air, like the dissolution of solids in water, is in
its results, at any rate, a case of assimilation to the character of
the surrounding or adjacent medium ; so that, the more we heat
a bar of iron, the more progress does it make toward that vapor-
ous condition in which it can easily be diffused through its en-
vironment. The mixing of metals also illustrates diffusion ; for,
whether it results in amalgams or alloys, whether the mixture
be a merely mechanical association of the parts brought together
or a chemical combination of those parts, the fact remains that
for given areas, which may be large or small, the average degree
of diffusion is the same. This is shown with especial clearness
in those compounds of carbon and manganese with iron needed
for a variety of industrial pur]30ses, since such compounds
would have none of their present commercial value were it not
for the uniform diffusion through the iron of the substance em-
ployed to modify it.
Here, then, our treatment of the subject must draw to a close.
While necessarily brief, it has been complete enough to reveal
a process far reaching in its scope and of cosmical significance.
We have seen how like units everywhere tend to be associated
and unlikes dissociated ; how unlikes, held in forcible association,
tend to be more or less profoundly assimilated to one another ;
and how disturbances of prevailing uniformity tend to be equa-
bly distributed through the several media in which they occur.
But we have also noted that the power impelling to these multi-
farious acts of assimilation, to these movements of association
and dissociation, is not the power of the units themselves, but
the power of the system to which they immediately belong ; and
we are thus warned of the important bearing which our law has
upon two problems of the utmost generality in physics namely,
the problems of chemical affinity and gravitation. It is true that
we have as yet no formula for explaining these manifestations of
power by a single principle ; that we do not yet know the real
structure of ether ; and that there is still needed a definite account
of gravitation as an intelligible mechanical process. Nevertheless,
the causal connection of both gravitative and chemical actions
with the ether system is already obvious to physicists. That the
power which accomplishes these actions does not reside in matter
alone, but resides also in the ether system is, in fact, a function
of that system regarded as including both ether and matter
seems to be increasingly pointed to by the trend of recent phys-
ical research. Basing our final conjecture, therefore, on general-
ization from a wide array of facts, it may not be premature to
