512 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
supplies the neighboring city of Merida with ice. Low chains
also stretch along the coast as far as the delta of the Orinoco.
These mountains for the most part run in parallel ranges, between
which lie elevated valleys. In these valleys are most of the culti-
vated lands of the country. Here also are the chief cities, al-
though many of the seaports are of considerable size. Caracas,
the capital, is nine miles back from the coast, at an elevation of
three thousand feet, but the railroad which runs to it from La
Guaira is obliged to take a tortuous way of twenty-three miles,
passing through many cuts and tunnels. There are no stations
along the route, and the country is not cultivated except near the
termini. In many places the track winds around a mountain on
the verge of a sheer descent of hundreds of feet. Caracas lies in
one of the mountain valleys, which slopes toward the south and is
traversed by the Guaire River. Its temperature is equable ; the
mean of its coldest month, January, being 68 F., and of its hot-
test month, May, being 93. Rain falls abundantly in April,
May, and June, though not so constantly as in other tropical
regions. The rest of the year is rather dry.
Between the mountains and the Orinoco stretch the broad
llanos or grassy and partly tree-covered plains which form the
basin of the great river on the northwestern side. The extensive,
thinly populated territory south and east of the Orinoco is made
up of alternating hills and valleys, and is heavily wooded. This
region has some mountains of moderate elevation, among which
is Roraima, of much interest to explorers, standing on (or near)
the boundary of British Guiana. Its tablelike upper portion, a
mass of pink sandstone rising sheer sixteen hundred feet, was first
ascended in 1884 by Im Thurn and Perkins after many unsuccess-
ful attempts had been made. " Obviously Roraima was formerly,"
says Reclus, " part of an elevated table land, which has been grad-
ually isolated by a process of cleavage and erosive action. It sur-
vives to present times as a superb witness to former geological
conditions. Streams have their rise on the upper platform, over
the edge of which they fall in cascades, draping the pink escarp-
ments as with lace veils of their silvery spray. ' O Roraima, red
mountain, wrapped in clouds, fruitful mother of streams ! ' sing
the Arecuna Indians encamped in the surrounding valleys."
Venezuela has no volcanoes, but traces of ancient eruptions
are to be found among the highlands. Certain flames often seen
hovering over the ground were formerly thought to be connected
with subterranean fires, but this idea has been dispelled by ad-
vancing knowledge. " This curious phenomenon," says Reclus in
his description of it, " has been noticed on the slopes of Duida, on
Mount Cuchivano, in the province of Cuman^, and in the marshy
valley of the Catatumbo and of other streams flowing to Lake
