514 POPULAR SCIPJNCE MONTHLY.
Aguirre/ say the natives, who, after more than three hundred
years, are still haunted by the legends associated with this six-
teenth-century corsair. The vapors rising from certain asphalt
lakes similar to that of Trinidad are also said at times to be sub-
ject to spontaneous combustion." It might have been well if
there had been a few active volcanoes in the country during
recent times. Venezuela has suffered some terrible earthquakes,
and on the theory that these disturbances are due to pent-up
underground forces, the existence of natural vents would have
prevented them. In 1550 an earthquake occurred, accompanied
by a tidal wave, which swept away the settlement of Cumana,
and the same place suffered severely in 1700, after which the
ground continued to tremble for fifteen months. One of the most
destructive shocks, by which Caracas was laid in ruins with a
loss of twelve thousand lives, occurred in 1812, during the war
for independence. " The indirect consequences of this disaster,"
says Reclus, " were even more deplorable than the catastrophe
itself. It certainly prolonged the ruinous war probably for years,
and greatly intensified its horrors. The event having taken place
on Holy Thursday, the anniversary of the declaration of inde-
pendence, the priests, nearly all of whom belonged to the Spanish
party, declared that the hand of God had wrought the ruin in
order to crush the revolution." Thousands of superstitious revo-
lutionists, including Miranda, the general in chief, laid down their
arms, and the Spaniards secured fortified places and other advan-
tages that were recovered only at great cost.
In a country so much upheaved a variety of minerals will
naturally be found accessible. There are rich deposits of gold in
the region east of the Orinoco bordering on British Guiana, which
accounts for the ownership of part of that territory having been in
dispute for half a century. The famous mine El Callao has yielded
over three million dollars a year. Its upper levels have been pretty
well worked out, so that its present output is secured by deep min-
ing operations. As an export, gold ranks next after coffee and
cacao. Considerable copper ore is exported, mainly the product
of the Aroa mines in the Maritime Alps, near the northern coast.
Lead and tin are also found. If Venezuela owned all the islands
that lie off its coast it would have an important source of mineral
wealth in the famous asphalt lake. La Brea, on Trinidad. But
Trinidad and Tobago had been taken from Spain by Great Britain,
while CuraQoa, Buen Aire, and Oruba had been appropriated by
the Dutch, before Venezuela secured its independence. The main-
land, however, is by no means devoid of bituminous deposits as-
phalt, petroleum, jet, and bituminous coal being obtained in vari-
ous localities. Other useful minerals found are sulphur, kaolin,
and phosphate rock. Margarita, the largest of the islands belong-
