NATURAL FEATURES OF VENEZUELA. 517
is another called the Casquina. Both are navigable for steamers
drawing less than ten feet; those requiring deeper water than
this must use the southern and main branch of the Orinoco.
This one is naturally always preferred by ships. The water of
the river is a thick yellow, and the current is as swift as four or
five miles an hour. As we went on all day, the Macareo narrowed
to about one hundred feet, but was very deep. The banks ap-
peared quite uninhabited until we reached the Orinoco proper.
First we passed two very small Indian villages. The houses con-
sisted merely of grass roofs and wooden pillars, being quite open
on all sides, and disclosing numbers of hammocks each containing
a nearly nude Indian. Near by were fields of mandioc and bana-
nas. On the beach small pirogues were drawn up. At one place
some of the boys paddled out to us, and in wanton sport threw
on board many sticks of sugar cane. These Indians had stout,
strong bodies and broad and good-natured physiognomies, with
their hair 'banged' across the forehead and left long at the sides.
" In its vast size, and large and numerous islands, the Orinoco
is not unlike the Amazon, but the banks differ from the Amazon's
chiefly in their greater profusion of lianas, the forests being not
only decked but half covered with them. After the Indian villages,
we passed, upon the Macareo, long lines of widely separated mud
huts, belonging to negroes and low-class Creoles. All these people
wore clothes, had a variety of cooking utensils, and better dwell-
ings than the pure Indians. Near where the Macareo enters the
main branch of the Orinoco is a small town called Barrancas
simply two short streets of dilapidated mud huts. We stopped
only ten minutes to send our boat ashore with the mail, and to
bring on board two or three passengers. Some very large islands
invite the view hereabout, and the distant ranges of the Imataca
Mountains, ridge behind ridge, look blue and picturesque. The
current of the Orinoco does not carry down the great number of
grassy islands and tree trunks that one sees always on the Ama-
zon. ... A fine spectacle at night were the many great prairie
fires, the whole sky being aglow with them. A certain fire would
suddenly appear, tearing along at a terrific rate, with a blinding
glare and long trail of smoke, recalling a night express train a
thousand times magnified. The Venezuelans are accustomed to
burn their savannas once a year. We had already left the regions
of the pristine wilderness, and were now among the great savan-
nas, or natural meadows of the central plains of Venezuela. The
delta is the only thickly wooded part of the Orinoco, the upper
portion of the river being bounded by the llanos, or great grassy
and almost treeless plains."
Near the head waters of the Orinoco is its junction with the
Cassiquiare, by which it has a navigable connection with a branch
