34 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
almost any part of tlie body. Thus, consumption is only a special
manifestation of tlie general disease tuberculosis. The germs
are not merely thorns in the fleshy producing a local inflammation,
but they are plants which multiply rapidly, and form in their
growth poisons as dangerous to life as if they were elaborated in
one large plant instead of millions of small ones.
The germ of leprosy is very like that of tuberculosis. In both
diseases, little masses of inflammatory tissue form around the
bacilli, and then, not having the vitality of normal structures,
these break down, involving other parts in their own destruction.
Leprosy attacks chiefly those parts of the body which are exposed,
like the hands, feet, arms, and legs, though it occasionally invades
the mucous membranes, and it is seen in the nose, mouth, and
throat. Tuberculosis, on the other hand, seeks the deeply seated
organs by preference, though it, too, may affect the throat ; and
many of the so-called scrofulous sores are tubercular. Leprosy
thrusts out its hideous deformities and disgusting ulcers to the
gaze of the passer-by ; tuberculosis hides its devastations beneath
an exterior which may be even beautiful. The greater sufferer
from fever, lassitude, and pain is the consumptive. So, too, is
his mental suffering greater, since the leper is usually a person
who has lived in filth and squalor, while the tubercular patient is
more likely than not to be one who has worked hard to gratify
some ambition and who feels more keenly than bodily pain the
necessity of abandoning active life. Leprosy is not a rapidly
fatal disease, usually lasting from nine to twenty years after its
recognition. Consumption fortunately does not allow its victims
to linger so long, but kills in from one to four years in the great
majority of cases.
In order to see how formidable an enemy we have in tubercu-
losis, let us contrast it with some other diseases which are even
more dreaded. Leprosy is rare in most civilized countries ; even
in Asia Minor it causes less than one per cent of the total death
rate. Typhoid and scarlet fevers are each held responsible for
three per cent ; diphtheria and pneumonia, for five per cent each.
The deaths from consumption alone, omitting such tubercular
troubles as hip-joint disease. Pott's disease of the spine, some forms
of meningitis, intestinal marasmus, caries of bone, and many ab-
scesses, make up, according to one authority, about twenty per
cent of the total death rate of this country. It is estimated that
one third of all deaths occurring in the medical wards of hospitals
are due to tuberculosis, and that a fifth of all surgical cases
treated many of which are cured are tubercular. We may
bring these statistics home by saying that you and I were born
with one chance in five of dying of some form of tuberculosis. If
our chance of being instantaneously and decently killed by an
