NATURAL FEATURES OF VENEZUELA. 519
The chief wealth of Venezuela consists in products of the
soil, natural and cultivated. There are many coffee and cacao
plantations in the mountain valleys near the coast, and coffee to
the value of fourteen million dollars is exported yearly, which is
double the value of all other exports. Among the other culti-
vated articles are manioc, sugar, cocoanuts, maize (Indian corn),
tobacco, wheat, cotton, indigo, sweet potatoes, and melons. Canoes
which ascend the upper Orinoco and its branches to the forested
region of the southeast bring down rubber, vanilla and tonka
beans, fruits, gums, and drugs. The forests are also rich in cabi-
net and dye woods, useful fibers, from which cordage and ham-
mocks are made, and a variety of other products. The deadly
arrow poison called urari by the natives is made in the district
south of the Orinoco.
The central plains of the republic form a vast grazing range
which supports millions of horned cattle, horses, and asses. These
herds are subject to great vicissitudes ; they were reduced to a
small fraction of their normal size by the war for independence,
and again by the civil wars ending in 1863, while vast numbers of
horses and asses were destroyed by a murrain which broke out in
1843. Their numbers have, however, been restored, and the stock
has been improved recently. Sheep and goats are bred in the
mountainous district of the northwest, whence goatskins (known
as Curagoa kid) are largely exported.
The animal life of the forest is varied and abundant. The
howling ape makes his presence known morning and evening to
-all within earshot, and fifteen other simians are met with. The
representatives of the cat tribe include the jaguar, puma, and
ocelot. There are also harmless bears living on fish and honey,
the ant-eater, the cavy, the cuchi-cuchi, the tapir, various species
of deer, and the slothful sloth, which, as Reclus says, " after de-
vouring the foliage of a cecropia, utters long, plaintive cries at
having to climb another." Myriads of birds of brilliant plumage
vie with the tropical flowers to enliven the somberness of the
forest. The waterfowl are no less numerous; it is said that a
regiment, encamped near the confluence of the Apure River with
the Orinoco, lived for a week on wild duck without appreciably
reducing their numbers. One of the curiosities of Venezuelan
bird life is the guacharo, a night-flying fruit-eater which inhabits
caves in certain of the coast districts. Its fat yields a much-prized
table oil.
Both the salt and fresh waters of the country abound in fish.
Sixty-pound turtles are abundant in the large rivers, but will not
long continue so unless the taking of their eggs is limited. Three
species of alligators are found in the rivers and lakes, while the
manatee and porpoise enter the Orinoco from the ocean. The
