SUGGESTIBILITY AND KINDRED PHENOMENA. 521
side any consciousness whatever. We can not, however, logic-
ally stop at this point. If a single cortical process and its con-
comitant mental state may be dissociated from others, there
appears no a iiriori reason why many may not he simultane-
ously dissociated, nor yet why the entire system may not he
dissolved and reduced to a chaotic mass of physical processes
and concomitant mental states. For such a supposititious con-
dition I would propose the term disordination, the etymological
opposite of coordination. We may well believe that if a dis-
ordinated state occurred it would not be remembered. Memory
depends, from the psychological point of view, upon the law of
association, and from the physiological upon the fact that be-
tween the cortical processes underlying the present state of con-
sciousness and the traces left in the cortex by those accompany-
ing the state remembered, there is a continuous system of traces,
representing actual processes that discharged successively into
one another. In a disordinated state there is no such continuous
system and consequently no memory. But it is also conceivable
that, from a present state succeeding a state of disordination, a
single devious thread of traces, so to speak, might lead us back a
little way into the maze of confusion which lies behind. As I
shall later show, our memory of a dream depends upon such a
line of continuous discharge.
In a disordinated state the dissociated elements would not of
course be what they would be in a well coordinated state. In the
latter the characteristics of each element are largely determined by
the relation which it bears to other elements of the system with
which it is interwoven. Freed from the restrictions and incite-
ments of the others, each process would tend to work out its own
proper results in a very different way from that which it would
otherwise have been compelled to follow.
Furthermore, it is conceivable that co-ordination might be
defective without being absolutely lacking. I would term this
incoordination. It might occur in either of two forms, or in both
at once. The coordinated system underlying the upper con-
sciousness might consist of relatively few elements as compared
with those of other persons, there being a larger subconscious
field. The upper consciousness would then habitually be narrow ;
the individual would be unable to grasp many considerations at
once and would be easily abstracted. Or, the elements actually
coordinated might be defectively coordinated. The conscious-
ness would tend to be confused, the individual would see dimly
things which would persistently refuse to get clear, and would be
in general what we call " muddle-headed." And, as I have sug-
gested, many are both muddle-headed and narrow-minded.
It is evident that the distinction between disordination and
VOL. XLVIII. 37
