SUGOESTIBILIIT AND KINDRED PHENOMENA. 523
the sensation had succeeded in developing, the least suggestion of
torture as an explanation would have been quenched by a mass of
inconsistent ideas. In sleep the grotesque notion finds no obstacle
to its acceptance. Who has not dreamed of himself as being in
some public place and then suddenly become aware that he is
naked and exposed to the gaze of the crowd ? What is this but
the coalescence of the sensations arising from his actual state as
he lies in bed with the thought systems representing his imagi-
nary experiences ?
If one puts a man asleep and all the while keeps talking to
him, touching him and otherwise keeping him aware of one's
presence, one gets in many cases a peculiar type of sleep known
as a hypnotic state. We may suppose that all the elements com-
posing the man's normal consciousness are disordinated and for
the most part extinguished, but the one group which he calls the
consciousness of the presence of his friend Smith who is hypnotiz-
ing him still remains. That has no chance to go to sleep, as it
were, and consequently in his disordinated brain all processes
originated by that one still active group tend to work out their
normal results with a precision and certainty unknown in wak-
ing life. He is either totally dead to all other stimuli, or can be
made aware of them only with difficulty. Frequently the attempt
to force such a stimulus upon him is followed by great nervous
excitement, somewhat like that which usually follows a great
shock or surprise. This is, I think, the true character of the
suggestibility found in hypnotic states and of the so-called phe-
nomenon of rapport.
Another common form of disordination is that which accom-
panies a " nerve storm." We know that if a mass of heated and
moisture-laden air begins to escape into the upper and colder
regions of the atmosphere at any point, the upgoing current, no
matter how slender at the outset, may increase in volume and
velocity until it develops into a vast storm center hundreds of
miles in extent. So also does it appear that a relatively small and
localized nerve explosion is capable, under conditions which we
do not at all understand, of propagating itself irregularly through
the nervous system, ignoring the usual association paths, until
the entire nervous mechanism is exhausted. Such a progressive,
periodic disturbance is said to be epileptiform. The causes of the
various forms of epilepsy are often unknown. Some, however,
are due to mechanical irritation of the cortex, as by a depression
of the skull, an extravasation of blood, disease of the membranes,
or the growth of a tumor on the cortex. Others are produced
by some continuous and intense peripheral irritation, as that
springing from an unhealed wound, an ingrown nail, etc. Others
still are due to the memory of some great shock or fright, and
