524 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
we may suppose that the subconscious memory of that experi-
ence is capable of becoming from time to time strong enough to
disturb the coordination of the upper consciousness. Indeed,
most of these causes may produce chronic incoordination without
going so far as to destroy coordination altogether. Now, all these
cases may be generalized under one conception. In my first
article I compared the system of activities underlying conscious-
ness to the system of forces upon which the existence of the soap
bubble depends. We all know that the introduction of any new
and intense factor into that system, as when one pricks the bub-
ble with a dry pin, instantly destroys it. It would appear that
much the same is true of the system of cortical activities.
The precise efi^ect of the nerve storm upon consciousness, how-
ever, varies with the region upon which its force is chiefly spent.
In the so-called masked epilepsies or periodic insanities con-
sciousness is directly affected, and with greater or less severity,
but the complex disturbances so produced can not be reduced to
definite classes. New elements are introduced, old elements are
destroyed, or weakened or intensified, as the case may be, and the
character temporarily modified. Whenever the disturbance is
very great, however, memory is more or less impaired, as our
theory would lead us to expect. In the true epilepsies the vio-
lence of the storm is expended upon the motor region, producing
movements, sometimes of a purposive character and sometimes
not. Whenever the storm is at all severe, consciousness is disor-
dinated and no memory remains. After the storm is over the
patient sinks into a state of true unconsciousness, and often he
recovers from it but slowly, passing through stages of automatism
as the elements of consciousness slowly find one another and are
built up into a system. If you question him after his recovery,
he says he was unconscious the whole time. But we have rea-
son for believing that during the period of convulsion mental
states such as muscular sensations, sensations of pain, and prob-
ably horrible dreams and nightmares really existed, while in
the comatose state there was nothing of the kind. The first was a
state of disordination ; the second, of true unconsciousness.
The symptoms of incoordination are, as one would expect,
of infinite variety and incapable of classification. It is known
in medicine as hysteria, and I can say but little of it here.
In its simpler forms there seems to be a general inability to
think of much at once. Consequently, what is in consciousness is
very much there, to use a colloquial phrase, and tends to work out
its own results. The patient is easily abstracted, fails to notice
things, .is narrow and prejudiced. In practical matters he has
bad judgment, for good judgment implies the ability to weigh
many considerations at once. It is difiicult to convince him of a
