THE STAMPING OUT OF CRIME. 527
THE STAMPING OUT OF CRIME.
By Dr. NATHAN OPPENHEIM.
IT is only a short time since civilized nations abolished slavery,
and already we look back with wonder at onr own and other
countries, and are barely able to realize that the world could have
borne such an unspeakable institution that it could have steadily
progressed while weighted with the breaking load of such a bur-
den. Nevertheless, for thousands of years, and even at times of
exquisite culture, men thought that slavery was inevitable, or
even necessary, or at any rate that it could never be done away
with. Now there is an equal steadfastness of opinion in the
opposite direction. We regard with horror the social condition
which justified bondage ; we are astounded that we could have
lived in such an atmosphere.
There are other similar examples in the history of civilization.
Until the present century drunkenness was almost universal, and
the gentleman who did not drink himself under the table was
thought at best to be a poor sort of man. Our present attitude in
the matter is just as great a revolution as our change in regard to
slavery. Likewise is there an equally great difference so far as
the interests of society are concerned. Again, until the middle of
this century there was a constant succession of wars among the
principal nations ; but within a few years conditions have so
changed that the man who dared to precipitate a war would be
utterly overwhelmed with universal abhorrence.
If we look into the future, we may see as great a change,
which is beginning to assert itself in regard to the necessity of
crime. Indeed, the above analogies are well carried out, from the
fact that so many people at present think crime is inevitable
that because society has always sweated under this burden it fol-
lows that the burden must ever be carried. On the contrary, be-
cause society has always been oppressed with crime there is good
reason to suppose that changed conditions must alter the present
facts, and that we may look for a season when crime as a constant
and unvarying social element will have ceased to exist ; when it
will show itself in minor and individual cases, as drunkenness is
beginning to do, as plagues and epidemics are beginning to do.
One of the best indications for hope is the growing effort to
study crime accurately ; not merely to regard it as an excuse for
confining lawbreakers in self-infecting herds, where they may
undisturbed pollute one another, but, on the other hand, to seek
for the causes of crime, to ascertain all its concomitant condi-
tions, to recognize and classify the criminal in sociological, psy-
chological ways in the ways of anatomy and physiology. The
