528 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
recent congresses for this object in Paris, Rome, and Brussels
have opened a new world of information, have shown how misty
have been our ideas on the subject, how primitive our methods
have been and are, and what little hope for the future lies in a
continuance of them.
This much, at least, we have learned : that the criminal forms
a class by himself, no matter whether he is born so or grows into
vice ; that not only in his acts but likewise in mind and body does
he vary from the healthy normal. For his tendency, as that of
all organic life, is to reproduce his kind. This fact should be
regarded as a rule that is as widely applicable and as unvarying
as any law of biology. It can not be otherwise, for every child
is a summing up and a manifestation of the traits of his ances-
tors. And so, in spite of our present efforts, each confirmed law-
breaker becomes an ever-fruitful fountain for wrong a moral
plague spot the limits to whose contagion are bounded only
by the amount of material that can be contaminated. The
most superficial glance will show how true this is, for if it
were otherwise one would rightly suppose that the vast efforts
for social amelioration throughout society must surely result in
an increase of the better and a decrease of the worse elements.
But as a matter of fact this is not the case. We spend tremen-
dous amounts of time and money and effort in the attempt to
eliminate the need of crime ; we strive to the last extent to do
away with destitution, unsanitary conditions, ignorance, and de-
l^ressing moral influences, and undoubtedly these efforts have
accomplished much good. But in spite of all this, in spite of aid
societies for discharged convicts, in spite of educational possibili-
ties that are as free as air, in spite of college settlements, protect-
ing associations for children, reformatories, and lavish charities
of all kinds in a word, in spite of vastly improved social sur-
roundings the criminal remains as he has always been. Crime
does not lessen, but on the contrary increases with the growth of
our cities, or even increases beyond the proportion which we
should naturally ascribe to it.
The strange thing about all this is that the development in
crime does not necessarily depend for its beginning and growth
upon the elements which are popularly held responsible. Many
people believe that with the wider diffusion of knowledge wrong-
doing must necessarily shrink away that mental enlightenment
and moral darkness are incompatible. But this is merely a sup-
position, for the most part based on our admiration for education.
And, as a matter of fact, concrete examples constantly remind us
that the educated person, if wrongly minded, does not as the
result of his mental training become a law-abiding citizen, but
rather becomes a dangerous and capable criminal. Moreover, this
