THE STAMPING OUT OF CRIME, 529
is true not only of individuals, but also of masses as well. We
have to prove it the statistics of Dr. Ogle, in regard to the Eng-
lish population at a time of a steady increase of crime : " Eighty-
five per cent of the population were able to read and write in the
years 1881-'84, and as this represents an increase of ten per cent,
since the passing of the Elementary Education Act, it is probably
not far from the mark to say that at the present time almost
ninety per cent of the English population can read and write.
In other words, only ten per cent of the population is wholly
ignorant." In spite of this general diffusion of knowledge, in
spite of compulsory education in the most critical and formative
years of childhood, there was no decrease, but on the contrary an
increase of crime.
Again, it has been conclusively proved that destitution, that
specter which frightens the hearts of men, which covers and ob-
scures with its sodden wings every wrongdoing in human life, is
not in any way the real cause of crime ; it is true that often it is
the excuse. But it is only the excuse, and even in that capacity
it serves for the want of something better. However, relying
upon this excuse, one would naturally think that men with the
greatest burdens would be the most liable to lawbreaking, and
that times of profound destitution would be those most deeply
marked with crime. As a matter of fact, both of these supposi-
tions are false, so that we find criminals, as a rule, to be those
persons having almost no responsible burdens, and, strangest of
all, the times of prosperity show the greatest flourishing of crime.
Therefore, Morrison, a reliable writer, says : " It is a melancholy
fact that the moment wages begin to rise, the statistics of crime
almost immediately follow suit, and at no period are there more
offenses of all kinds against the person than when prosperity is
at its height." Again : " It is found that the stress of economic
conditions has very little to do with making these unhappy beings
what they are ; on the contrary, it is in periods of prosperity that
they sink to the lowest depths."
In like manner it can be fully and plainly proved that the
other fortuitous and external conditions which are usually blamed
for the wrongdoing in the world are either quite innocent or
merely accidental. Thus, climate is said by some to be a guilty
factor ; but we all know how easy it is to show that there is no
part of the world untainted. Seasons are responsible, say others.
Here, again, a strange fact confronts us : for it is in the pleasant-
est seasons of the year, when people have least in Nature to con-
tend with, when they are most abroad and mingling together,
that crime is commonest. Some well-intentioned men say that
certain foods, especially " strong " and animal foods, so inflame
the tendency to viciousness that evil instincts flare up, and as a
VOL. XLvni. 38
