530 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
result we have the criminal. It is quite unnecessary to spend
time in exposing tliis fallacy in physiology ; we need only refer
to the Italians, whose food is very largely vegetable, and whose
percentage of crime is among the greatest. The native inhabit-
ants in India are another case in point ; for their diet is likewise
almost entirely a vegetable one, and yet, if it were not for the in-
terference of the carnivorous English, they would even now be
addicted to the almost universal practice of infanticide. So also
is it that social rank, while setting metes and bounds in every
other direction, fades away in the domain of evil. The criminal
may be high or low, he still is the criminal ; and, reasoned
about broadly, there are as many offenses among the socially
exalted as the socially debased.
Thus from every side we are driven away from the fortuitous,
the occasional, the accidental as the controlling cause. We are
forced, as a necessary resort, to something more reasonable, more
stable, something which we can work on and understand. And as
soon as we look on the matter with such eyes, it becomes plainer,
more tangible, holding out hopes for amelioration if not entire
cure.
In a problem like this, which has so many ramifications, we
should seek for constant factors of divergence from the normal ;
or, better still, let us decide what is the healthiest development,
so that we may be better able to understand the abnormal, the
deficient in human character. " The perfection of man," says
M. de Laveleye, " consists in the full development of all his
forces, physical as well as intellectual, and of all his sentiments ;
in the feeling of affection for the family and humanity; in a
feeling for the beautiful in Nature and art." Now we have
something really definite. We have a clear idea of what is
essential to the highest growth of human worth, and immedi-
ately we recognize that in the criminal we have a being more or
less utterly removed from this standard, and thus representing
what is abnormal, twisted, or diseased. What is more, this di-
vergence is a constant one, which reproduces itself over and over
again in successive generations of wrongdoers. It is rarely
necessary for a man to commit crime at the present time, even
though he be laboring under adverse circumstances ; and it is
never necessary for him to continue such a career. Therefore,
when he does, it is a matter of choice or of temperament. Very
often the amount of ingenuity and talent exhibited would be suf-
ficient, if rightly applied, to bring him comfort if not greater
rewards in the regular lines of effort.
The majority of us exhibit a strange lack of logic in thinking
about hereditary transmissions. We recognize the necessity of
breeding and the duty of selection in regard to animals ; we are
