THE STAMPING OUT OF CRIME. 531
perfectly willing to follow well-known ideas on the need of weed-
ing out undesirable traits in cattle ; moreover, tlie world lias for a
time shown its belief in the existence of hereditary genius, other-
wise Galton's painstaking work on the subject could never have
reached its present popularity, nor should we now possess our
admiration for " good blood." But when we speak of the more
unfavorable traits and the deadly certainty of their reproduction
in descendants, our lips falter, we quickly hide the unpleasant sight
with a capacious covering of charitable forbearance. We con-
stantly meet with startling examples of transmitted crime, such
as the famous or infamous Cook gang and Jukes family ; every
day in the more unfortunate phases of metropolitan life we see
children following in the wake of parents and grandparents in
the wide sea of vice ; even do we see the same manner of crime
reproduced in straight family lines, and yet we dare not look the
plain truth full in the face ; under the mask of a specious system
of correction we hide our fear of facts and our incapacity to act
for the criminal individual as well as the noncriminal public.
It is time for us to see that punishment will not abolish crime,
any more than a whipping will change a lunatic into a sane man.
Until the citizens of a community are really healthy in mind,
body, and soul, crime will and must continue in its concomitant
ratio. For crime is merely the expression of the action of ordi-
nary social conditions upon distorted and diseased organisms.
The symptoms of this pathological state when occurring singly
may, as in the common sicknesses, mean but little. But when they
come together in recognized groups they point to definite degrees
of degeneration. For this reason anthropologists have been try-
ing to classify criminals, to put in their proper places symptoms
of weakened will and industry, overweening egoism, a failing
respect for consequences, deficient domesticity, insensibility to the
higher impulses, as well as the merely physical traits of facial and
cranial asymmetry, misshapen heads, epilepsy, idiocy, and the ten-
dency to disfigurement, as in tattooing. It is on the permanency
of such traits that Bertillon's system of measurement is founded,
as well as Galton^s theory of finger markings. The main idea
which these facts should impress upon us is the absolute stability
of these peculiarities and the inevitable surety of the results
which flow from them. The criminal is not necessarily without
good impulses ; on the contrary, he may have them more or less
constantly, but he is unable to act them out. Where the will is
thinned out almost to the vanishing point, or where the faculty of
concentration has been progressively weakened, it is practically
impossible to make up for them, and the unhappy offender is
quite at the mercy of circumstances which bring him time and
again before the criminal courts. In this connection it is inter-
