532 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
esting to read from Sir John Stracliey's quotation of an official
report from India : " When a man tells you that he is a Bodhak,
or a Kanjar, or a Sonoria, he tells you what few Europeans ever
thoroughly realize that he, an offender against the law, has been
so from the beginning and will be so to the end ; that reform is
impossible, for it is his trade, his caste I may almost say his re-
ligion to commit crime/^
The belief in the inevitable steadfastness of these personal and
family traits will finally clear our moral atmosphere, for we shall
and must see that the safety of society lies in right methods of
development based upon normal marriages and normal breeding.
As population increases and the complexities of life increase, the
burdens put upon us become heavier in proportion. We need
more mental and moral backbone than we have ; we are becoming
progressively unable to stand the strain, it has become absolutely
necessary to raise men to a higher level. For our present stand-
ard in character even more than in brains is a pitiably low one.
Just as it is practicable to improve a breed of animals, so is it
possible to increase our own worth. It is in this belief that
Francis Galton said : " I argue that, as a new race can be obtained
in animals and plants, and can be raised to so great a degree of
purity that it will maintain itself, with moderate care in prevent-
ing the more faulty members from breeding, so a race of gifted
men might be obtained, under exactly similar circumstances."
Here we have the gist of the matter. There is a consensus of
opinion in the competent that crime is not fortuitous ; likewise
that there is one sure method for betterment : " in preventing the
more faulty members from hreeding."
Scientists have known this for a long time ; but the mere fact
that the opinion was a scientific one kept it from the active appre-
ciation of the many people who go to make up the intelligent
class. Now it is time for us to understand the full bearing of the
matter, as we certainly must do if we follow to their logical con-
clusion the teachings of great minds like Darwin and Wallace,
like Wilson, Prof. Oscar Schmidt, Dr. Maudsley, and Jonathan
Hutchinson ; if we would rightly follow the meaning of the bril-
liant Weismann when he says that heredity is " that property of
an organism by which its peculiar nature is transmitted to its
descendants. And not only are the characteristics of the species
transmitted to the following generation, but even the individual
peculiarities." Besides all this, we have the evidence of men of
authority, specialists in criminal anthropology, whose conclusions
point in exactly the same direction, men like Cesare Lombroso,
Ottolenghi, Rossi, Zucarelli, Virgilio Morselli, Marro ; to these let
us add the names of the eminent Lacassagne, of Kocher, Raux,
Bournet. And even then we shall have only a part. The teach-
