THE YOUXG draughtsman: 533
ing of science all over the world echoes again and again the words
of Gal ton, that the way to better a race lies " in preventing the
more faulty members from breeding."
The proper method has been, used often enough, but crudely,
by such rulers as Ezzelin da Romano, Henry I, and many others.
We need this reform more than any other that has been pro-
posed in our present time. We should look forward to it as we
do to the noblest and best aspirations which crown our lives with
light, yea, as we look with uplifted eyes for the hope of our best
salvation in this world. The earth is reeking with the sweat of
evil, injustice, and moral sickness ; the means for relief are easily
within our reach ; they will bring injustice to no one, they will
put a stop to millions of wrongs, they will guarantee to our pos-
terity the possibility of a higher career in every way, without the
burdensome disadvantages which crowd us to low planes of life.
There is no room with us for the confirmed criminal ; there is less
room for his offspring, for they pollute the place whereon they
stand.
THE YOUNG DRAUGHTSMAN.*
By JAMES SULLY, M. A.,LL.D.,
GEOTE PROFESSOR OF THE PHILOSOPHY OF MIND AND LOGIC AT THE UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
LONDON.
A CHILD'S first attempts at drawing are pre-artistic and a
kind of play, an outcome of the instinctive love of finding
and producing semblances of things. Sitting at the table and
covering a sheet of paper with line-scribble, he is wholly self-
centered, " amusing himself," as we say, and caring nothing about
the production of " objective values."
Yet even in the early stages of infantile drawing the social
element of art is suggested in the impulse of the small draughts-
man to make his lines indicative of something to others' eyes, as
when he bids his mother look at the " man," " gee-gee," or what
else he fancies that he has delineated, f And this, though crude
enough and apt to shock the aesthetic sense of the matured artist
by its unsightliness, is closely related to art, forming, indeed, in
a manner a preliminary stage of pictorial design.
We shall therefore study children's drawings as a kind of rude
* From advance sheets of Studies of Childhood, by James Sully, M. A., LL. D., in press
of D. Appleton & Co.
j- This indicative or communicative function of drawing has, we know, played a great
part in the early stages of human history. Modern savages employ drawings in sand as a
means of imparting information to others e. g., of the presence of fish in a lake. See den
Steinen, Unter den Naturvolkern Braziliens, Kap. x, S. 243 f.
