534 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
embryonic art. In doing this our special aim will be to describe
and explain childish characteristics. This, again, will compel us
to go to some extent into the early forms of observation and im-
agination. It will be found, I think, that the first crude drawings
are valuable as throwing light on the workings of children's minds
Perhaps, indeed, it may turn out that these spontaneous efforts of
the childish hand to figure objects are for the psychologist a
medium of expression of the whole of child-nature hardly less
instructive than that of early speech.
In carrying out our investigation of children's drawings
we shall need to make a somewhat full reference to the re-
lated phenomena, the drawings of modern savages and those
of early art. While important points of difference will dis-
close themselves, the resemblances are important enough to
make a comparison not only profitable but almost indispens-
able.
I have thought it best to narrow the range of the inquiry by
keeping to delineations of the human figure and of animals, espe-
cially the horse. These are the favorite topics of the child's
pencil, and examples of them are easily obtainable.
As far as possible I have sought spontaneous drawings of quite
young children viz., from between two and three to about six.*
In a strict sense, of course, no child's drawing is absolutely spon-
taneous and independent of external stimulus and guidance.
The first attempts to manage the pencil are commonly aided by
the mother, who, moreover, is wont to present a model drawing,
and, what is even more important at this early stage, to supply
model movements of the arm and hand. In most cases, too, there
is some slight amount of critical inspection, as when she asks,
" Where is papa's nose ? " " Where is doggie's tail ? " Yet per-
fect spontaniety, even if obtainable, is not necessary here. The
drawings of men and quadrupeds of a child of five and later dis-
close plainly enough the childish fashion, even though there has
been some slight amount of elementary instruction. Hence I
have not hesitated to make use of drawings sent me by kinder-
garten teachers. I may add that I have used by preference
the drawings executed by children in elementary schools, as
these appear to illustrate the childish manner with less of
parental interference than is wont to be present in a cultured
home.
A child's drawing begins with a free, aimless swing of the
pencil to and fro, which movements produce a chaos of slightly
curved lines. These movements are purely spontaneous, or, if
imitative, are so only in the sense that they follow at a consider-
* Only a few drawings of older children above seven have been included.
