PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS. 557*
PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
X. SCULPTOR.
By HEKBERT SPENCER.
THE association between architecture, sculpture, and painting
is so close that the description of their origins, considered as
distinct from one another, is not easy ; and those who judge only
from the relations under which they are found in the remains of
early civilizations are apt to be misled. Thus Rawlinson remarks
that
"Sculpture in Egypt was almost entirely 'architectonic,' and was in-
tended simply, or at any rate mainly, for architectural embellishment. . . .
The statues of the gods had their proper place in shrines prepared for
them. . . . Even the private statues of individuals were intended for orna-
ments of tombs."
Here the implication appears to be that as, in historic Egypt,
sculpture existed in subordination to architecture, it thus existed
from the beginning. This is a mistake. There is abundant rea-
son to conclude that everywhere sculpture, under the form of
carving in wood, preceded architecture, and that the tomb and
the temple were subsequent to the image.
In the first volume of this work ( 154-158) * evidence of vari-
ous kinds, supplied by various peoples, was given proving that in
its initial form an idol is a representation of a dead man, con-
ceived as constantly or occasionally inhabited by his ghost, to
whom are made offerings, prayers for aid, and propitiatory cere-
monies. Confusion arising in the uncritical mind of the savage
between the qualities of the original and the like qualities sup-
posed to accompany a likeness of the original, long survived. Its
survival was shown among the Egyptians by their seemingly
strange practice of placing, in a comf)artment of the tomb, a
wooden figure (or more than one) intended as an alternative body
for the spirit of the departed on his return, in case his mummied
body should have been destroyed. Still more strange is the fact
referred to in the sections named above, that among ourselves and
other Europeans but a few centuries ago, the effigies of kings and
princes, gorgeously appareled, were duly presented with meals
for some time after death : such effigies being, some of them, still
preserved in Westminster Abbey. Merely recognizing this long
persistence of the primitive idea, it here concerns us only to note
that the making of a carved or modeled figure of a dead man be-
gins in low stages of culture, along with other elements of primi-
tive religion ; and that thus sculpture has its root in ghost-worship,
* Principles of Sociology, vol. i.
