558* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
while the sculptor, in his primitive form, is one of the agents of
this worship.
The tomb and the temple are, as is shown in 137,* developed
out of the shelter for the grave rude and transitory at first, but
eventually becoming refined and permanent; while the statue,
which is the nucleus of the temple, is an elaborated and finished
form of the original effigy placed on the grave. The implication
is that, as with the temple so with the statue, the priest, when not
himself the executant, as he is among savages, remains always the
director of the executant the man whose in junctions the sculptor
carries out.
Of evidence to be set down in support of this general proposi-
tion we may begin with that, relatively small in amount, which is
furnished by existing uncivilized races.
Concerning the Gold Coast Negroes, Bosman tells us that they
" generally build a small cottage or hut ... on the grave," and
also that in some parts " they place several earthen images on the
graves." Bastian, writing of the Coast Negroes, says clay figures
of departed chiefs with their families are placed in groups under
the village tree. Nothing is added about the makers of these clay
images ; but in another case we find evidence of priestly origin.
According to Tuckey, a certain fetich-rock on the Congo " is con-
sidered as the peculiar residence of Seembi, the spirit which pre-
sides over the river ; " that on some of the rocks " are a number of
raised figures," made of some composition which appears " like
stone sculptured in low relief" rude representations of men,
beasts, ships, etc. : " they were said to be the work of a learned priest
of Nokki who taught the art to all those who chose to pay him."
The Polynesian races yield some evidence : relevant facts are
narrated of the Sandwich Islanders by Cook and Ellis. The one
describes the burying places as containing many wooden images
representing their deities, some in huts, others not ; and the other
tells us that "each celebrated tii [spirit] was honored with an
image." That these celebrated spirits were originally the ghosts
of deceased chiefs, is implied by the account given of an allied
Polynesian race, the New Zealanders. Among these, according
to Thomson, the bodies of chiefs, in some cases " interred within
the houses where they died," where they were bewailed by rela-
tives for weeks [a rude temple and a rude worship], had "rude
human images, twenty or forty feet high," erected as monuments
to them. Though in neither of these cases are we told by whom
such images of deceased men were made, yet since of New Zea-
land artists the best are found among the priests, as asserted by
* Principles of Sociology, vol. i.
