560* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
sequently to tlie prevalence of the worship of household gods."
But who were the makers of either does not appear.
How it would naturally happen that while, in the first stages,
the priest was the actual carver of images, he became, in later
stages, the director of those who carved them, will be easily
understood on remembering that a kindred relation between the
artist and his subordinate exists now among ourselves. The
modern sculptor does not undertake the entire labor of executing
his work, but gives the rough idea to a skilled assistant who,
from time to time instructed in the needful alterations, produces
a clay model to which his master gives the finished form: the
reproduction of the model in marble by another subordinate
being similarly dealt with by the sculptor. Evidently it was in
something like this sense that priests throughout the East were
sculptors in early days, as some are in our own days. Writing of
the Singhalese, Tennent says :
" Like the priesthood of Egypt, those of Ceylon regulated the mode of
delineating the effigies of their divine teacher, by a rigid formulary, with
which they combined corresponding directions for the drawing of the
human figure in connection with sacred subjects."
From Egypt, here referred to, may be brought not only evidence
that the sculptured forms of those to be worshiped were pre-
scribed by the priests in conformity with the traditions they pre-
served, but also evidence that in some cases they were the actual
executants. Mentu-hotep, a priest of the 12th dynasty, yields an
example.
" Very skilled in artistic work, with his own hand he carried out his
designs as thev ought to be carried out." He "besides was invested with
religious functions" and "was the alter ego of the king." His inscrip-
tion says : " I it was who arranged the work for the building of the
temple."
An inscription of the 18th dynasty refers to one Bek, architect
of Amenhotep IV, who being described as " the follower of the
divine benefactor " was apparently a priest, and who was both
an executant and a supervisor of other's work. He is referred
to as
" overseer of the works at the red mountain, an artist and teacher of the
king himself, an overseer of the sculptors from life at the grand monu-
ments of the king for the temple of the sun's disk."
A further fact is given. Bek says of himself "My lord pro-
moted me to be chief architect. I immortalized the name of the
king ... [I caused] to be made two portrait-statues of noble
hard stone in this his great building. It is like heaven. . . .
Thus I executed these works of art, his statues."
What evidence Greek records yield, though not extensive, is
to the point. Curtius, who, referring to actions of the singers
