562* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The contempt felt by the Romans for every other occupation
than the military, and the consequent contempt for art and
artists imported from conquered peoples, resulted in the fact that
in the time of the Caesars sculptors and painters " were generally
either slaves or freedmen." Probably the only concern the
priests had with sculpture was when prescribing the mode in
which this or that god should be represented.
Such records as have come down to us from early Christian
times illustrate the general law of evolution in the respect that
they show how little the arts of design were at first specialized.
It has been often remarked that in days comparatively modern,
separation of the various kinds of mental activity was much less
marked than it has since become : instance the fact that Leonardo
da Vinci was man of science as well as artist ; instance the fact
that Michael Angelo was at once poet, architect, sculptor and
painter. This union of functions seems to have been still more
the rule in preceding ages. Evidence about the sculptors' art is
mingled with evidence about kindred arts. Says Emeric-David
" The same masters were goldsmiths, architects, painters, sculp-
tors, and sometimes poets, as well as being abbots or even
bishops." We are told by Challamel that the industrial art by
pre-eminence was gold-working. The great artists in it were
monks or at least clerics. The great schools of it were mon-
asteries. And it was for the use of churches ecclesiastical vest-
ments and decorations, funeral monuments, etc.
In the last part of this statement we see the implication that
the sculpturing of figures on monuments was a priestly occupa-
tion. This is also implied by the statement of Emeric-David that
In the 10th cent. Hugues, monk of Monstier-en-Der, was painter
and statuary. Further proof that miscellaneous art-works were
carried on by the clerical class is given by Lacroix and Ser^, who
say that early in the 11th cent, a monk, named Odoram, executed
shrines and crucifixes in gold and silver and precious stones. In
the middle of the century another monk, Theophilus, was at once
painter of manuscripts, glass-stainer, and enameling goldsmith.
Concerning these relationships in England during early days,
I find no evidence. The first relevant statements refer to times
in which the plastic arts, which no doubt were all along shared
in by those lay-assistants who did the rough work under clerical
direction such as chiseling out monuments in the rough accord-
ing to order had lapsed entirely into the hands of these lay-
assistants. Having been in the preceding times nothing but
skillful artisans, their work, when it came to be monopolized by
them, was for a long time regarded as artisan- work. Hence the
statement that
