36 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the lowest estimate, a tenth of the civilized human race is not
very exacting as to the soil afforded. Yet until recently con-
sumption has not been recognized as a contagious disease, and
the factor of predisposition, as determined by heredity, lack of
proper air and exercise, failure of vital strength, impoverished
blood, " weak lungs," etc., has been considered paramount. It is
certainly true that a robust person may be placed in the most
intimate contact with the germs of tuberculosis and throw them
off or inclose them as inert foreign bodies in his tissues ; on the
other hand, nearly every one is at one time or another susceptible
to tuberculosis and escapes or becomes a victim according as he
is free from or is exposed to contagious influences. A mother and
her baby, for instance, both die of consumption and heredity is
blamed. But does the child inherit the bacilli, or does it imbibe
them in the milk where they have been repeatedly found or
are they inhaled as the mother bends over the child and smothers
it with kisses ? Again, brothers and sisters drop off' one after
another, and it is said that " consumption runs in the family " ;
but we would seek another explanation if the same succession of
deaths were due to scarlet fever. Tubercle bacilli have been
found in the dust on the top of the door and window casings, in
carpets, bedding, and wall paper. Is it not rational to suppose
that these foci of infection have more to do with the death of
successive members of the family than a hereditary taint ? When
we note that members of the family who leave home escape the
disease and that other persons occupying the same house later
contract it, is not the evidence tolerably clear ? Are not hus-
bands and wives, roommates, and other persons intimately asso-
ciated almost as likely to follow one another with consumption as
if there were a blood relationship ? Such questions can only be
fully answered by a careful collection of statistics, taking ad-
vantage of the experiments of chance ; enough evidence has been
already gathered to warrant the adoption of the contagiousness of
tuberculosis as a practical basis for preventive measures.
The predisposing tendencies to tuberculosis may be modified,
often absolutely removed, by hygienic and tonic treatment. If,
however, any systematic attempt is to be made to stamp out the
disease, such an attempt as has been eminently successful in the
case of cholera and smallpox, it must depend upon isolation and
disinfection. We may logically hope to be able to vaccinate
against any disease which occurs but once in a lifetime that is to
say, we may dwarf the germs so that their growth will occasion
no dangerous symptoms while they will still " exhaust the soil ""
so as to prevent a subsequent development of the corresponding
unmitigated germs. This hope has been realized only in the case
of smallpox, but it is quite likely that the bacteriological horti-
