564* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
LORD SALISBURY ON EVOLUTION.*
By HEEBEET SPENCEE.
ENTHUSIASTIC adherents have compared the principle of
natural selection with the principle of gravitation. The
comparison is not warranted. In the first place the one is far from
having a like cardinal value with the other as a scientific truth ;
and in the second place it is not the sole cause of the phenomena
to be explained, as Mr. Darwin himself admitted when recogniz-
ing the inherited effects of use and disuse. Nevertheless, after
making these reservations, I will for a moment adopt the compar-
ison ; because, by its aid, I shall be enabled clearly to show the
nature of a widely prevalent misconception.
Let us suppose that our days were the days when Newton had
lately propounded his theory, and that the newspaper reader (or
as there were few such in those days, let us say " the man in the
street ") had been told about it. Suppose it had been explained to
him that, according to Newton, bodies attract one another directly
as their masses and inversely as the squares of their distances,
and that the phenomena presented by the Solar System had been
accounted for by him as conforming to this law. Suppose that
presently the man, thus far instructed, learned that there were
skeptics : Clairaut, for instance, having found that certain of the
Moon's motions could not be explained as results of gravitation,
and that consequently Newton's interpretation of planetary mo-
tions was untenable. Now suppose the man inferred that along
with the theory of gravitation the theory of the Solar System
must be abandoned; and that certain views of Copernicus, of
which he had heard, and certain other views of Kepler, had been
disproved. What, in such case, should we say ? Evidently that
the man made a profound mistake in identifying the theory of
gravitation with the theory of the Solar System. We should say
that there were independent reasons for accepting the Copernican
system and the laws of Kepler ; and that though, were the law of
gravitation disproved, the pre-existing theory of the Solar System
would lack that rational interpretation which the law of gravita-
tion gave to it, yet it would remain standing on conclusive evi-
dence.
Mr. Darwin's doctrine of natural selection and the doctrine of
organic evolution are, by most people, unhesitatingly supposed to
be one and the same thing. Yet between them there is a differ-
ence analogous to that between the theory of gravitation and the
theory of the Solar System ; and just as the theory of the Solar
* Inaugural Address to the British Association, 1894.
