LORD SALISBURY ON EVOLUTION. 567*
trine may similarly be met by tbe counter- demand for facts in
support of the doctrine opposed to it. Perhaps Lord Salisbury
will meet this demand by quoting the statements contained in the
book of Genesis. But even if, ignoring the skepticism of pro-
fessed biblical critics, such as the Rev. Prof. Cheyne, he puts ab-
solute faith in these statements current among nomadic groups
of shepherds three thousand years ago, he is obliged to admit that
these alleged facts are not of the class he refers to when he asks
for proof of the hypothesis of natural selection : they are not
facts of direct observation.
Thus, supposing the two hypotheses special creation and evo-
lution by natural selection are to be tested by the directly
observed facts assigned in their support, then, if the hypothesis
of evolution by natural selection is to be rejected because there
are no directly observed facts which prove it, the hypothesis of
special creation must be rejected for the same reason. Nobody
has seen a species evolved and nobody has seen a species created.
But now from the question of direct evidence let us pass to the
question of indirect evidence. Let us ask if there are any positive
facts of observation which tend to justify the one, and whether
there are any positive facts of observation which tend to justify
the other. Here a comparison leads to widely different results'
Familiar though some of the facts are, I must be excused for
specifying them, since Lord Salisbury ignores them.
Though, because most of the geological record has been de-
stroyed while the remnant has been dislocated or blurred, and
because so small a part an infinitesimal part of this remnant
has been examined, paleontology furnishes but broken evidence,
yet the more the Earth's strata are examined the more they tes-
tify that organic forms have arisen by modifications upon modifi-
cations. Recent discoveries, especially those which show by inter-
mediate forms that the bird-type is derived from the reptile-type,
and those which show that, beginning with the four-toed Oroliip-
pus of the Eocene strata, we ascend in later strata, through Meso-
Mppus, MioMppus, Protohippus, and Pliohippus, up to the mod-
ern horse, have given strong support to the hypothesis of evolu-
tion : support so strong that Prof. Huxley, who had up to the
time he saw Prof. Marsh's fossils made reservations in his accept-
ance of the hypothesis, thereafter accepted it without reserve.
Not only do fossils furnish in this and other cases the lines of
linear ascent to existing forms, but they simultaneously disclose
a general fact of great significance the fact that early types of
creatures in any class display the commonest or most general
traits of structure, and that later types of the same class are more
specialized in this or that direction : relationships which are neces-
