568* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
sarily implied by the evolutionary process of divergence and redi-
vergence with accompanying modifications.
The truths of classification, again, have a kindred meaning.
Ordinary people, and even naturalists of the old school, pass by as
of no significance the remarkable relations which, in both plant
and animal kingdoms, exist among their divisions, subdivisions,
and sub-subdivisions their classes, subclasses, cohorts, orders,
genera, species, varieties. The fact that these fall into groups
within groups, successively decreasing in size, consists perfectly
with the supposition of common origin. Suppose an arm of a large
tree to have been buried in such wise as to leave only the tips of
its twigs visible ; and suppose a man from the Faroe Isles, igno-
rant of trees, taking one of these protruding tips for a separate
plant, attempted to uproot it. He would find that below the sur-
face the twig he uncovered joined with others like itself to form
a small branch; and explorations all around would prove that
everywhere the local clusters of twigs thus converged. Further
excavations would show that the adjacent branchlets, composed
of clusters of twigs, themselves united a little deeper down, and
were subdivisions of a medium-sized branch. Again digging he
would discover that several such branches formed parts of a still
larger branch ; and so on continually, until complete clearance
made it manifest that all these great branches, small branches,
branchlets, and twigs, in their respective groups, had diverged
from the one original arm of the tree, which itself had diverged
from the stem ; and that they formed groups within groups dimin-
ishing in size as they became more remote from their common
parent. And now observe that while there are thus symbolized
the relationships of species, genera, orders, etc., as they now exist,
there are also symbolized the relationships which, so far as we
know them, exist among remains contained in the Earth's crust :
the two sets of phenomena correspond.
The lesson taught by the facts of distribution in Time, is also
taught by the facts of distribution in Space. In various regions
there are alliances between the present fauna and the past fauna
found fossil : though different, they are near akin. It was " this
wonderful relationship in the same continent between the dead
and the living " which especially forced on Mr. Darwin the belief
in descent and modification : this relationship having been demon-
strated by Prof. Owen between the existing South American forms
and the buried forms of extinct species. The fact that in Aus-
tralia, long cut off from the other continents, all the indigenous
mammals are of the implacental type, and that the fossil mam-
mals found there are also exclusively implacental, illustrates
these connections very clearly. And these likenesses of nature
between present faunas and past faunas in the same localities are
