LORD SALISBURY ON EVOLUTION, 569*
implications agreeing exactly with, the implications pointed out
above.
Once more there are tlie facts of embryology. In various waj's
these tell us with endless repetition the same story.
Von Baer "found that in it^ earliest stage, every organism lias the
greatest numhea* of characters in common with all other organisms in their
earliest stages; that at a stage somewhat later, its structure is like the
structures displayed at corresponding phases by a less extensive multitude
of organisms; that at each subsequent stage, traits are acquired which suc-
cessively distinguish the developing embryo from groups of embryos that
it previously resembled thus step by step diminishing the class of embryos
which it still resembles ; and that thus the class of similar forms is finally
narrowed to the species of which it is a member."
Obviously these groups, dividing and subdividing into smaller
ones as they diverge and re-diverge, correspond completely to the
groups within groups which the classifications of animals and
plants show us, and with the groups within groups of the buried
branch, which symbolize both their relations and the relations of
fossil forms, so far as we know them. That is to say, what we
may call the embryological tree corresponds with the classifica-
tory tree, and with those more modern parts of the paleontologi-
cal tree which we have been able imperfectly to trace. Moreover,
if we accept the hypothesis of evolution, the strange transforma-
tions undergone by a developing embryo become intelligible,
though otherwise unintelligible. Every superior animal com-
mences as a nucleated cell, a form common to the smallest and
simplest creatures, the Protozoa. While, among the Protozoa,
this nucleated cell, by imdergoing fission gives rise to others
which part company (which derived cells again divide and part
company), the trait common to the Meiazoa is that, instead of
parting company, the cells formed by successive fissions remain
together and constitute a cluster. The members of this cluster
divide into two layers, between which, in higher types, there
arises a third; and from these all the external and internal organs
are formed. In each great class of Metazoa, further development
of each higher type is accompanied by a " recapitulation " of traits
distinctive of lower types. In the Vertebrata, for instance, the
embryo of a bird or a rabbit has, at one time, traits resembling
those of the fish-embryo structures roughly representing gill-
clefts being one. And in the case of the human embryo, it is only
after exhibiting successive kinships of organization to lower
mammals, that it at last assumes the form proper to man. Mar-
velous as is this repetition of traits belonging to lower types,
rudely indicated, it is quite congruous with the hypothesis of evo-
lution implies a kind of transcendental heredity. On the other
hand, the hypothesis of design furnishes no explanation, but pre-
sents an insurmountable difificulty. For if the development of the
