570* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
embryo had been divinely arranged, it would surely have gone
along lines of direct growth from the germ to the finished form :
would not have displayed various metamorphoses having no
relations either to passing needs or to ultimate structure and
mode of life. With which evidence may be joined the evidence
furnished by rudimentary organs, which are full of meaning on
the evolution hypothesis, but worse than meaningless in the spe-
cial-creation hypothesis.
But these four great groups of facts, suggesting in dijfferent
ways the same history, stand thus far without assigned cause.
How come these progressive modifications to have taken place ?
and why are the modified forms connected with one another in
the ways shown alike by paleontology, by classification, by dis-
tribution, and by embryology ? The reply is that we need only
look around to see everywhere at work a general cause which, if
it has been at work throughout all time, yields an explanation.
Take any plant or animal and expose it to a new set of circum-
stances (circumstances not so unlike its previous ones as to prove
fatal), and it begins to change ; and the change is one which
eventually adapts it to the new conditions. By what special
causes the adaptive modifications are effected does not at present
concern us. Here the argument requires us only to recognize the
truth that in some way the organization is molded to the new
conditions. Though to illustrations furnished by cultivated
plants and domesticated animals it may be objected that arti-
ficial selection has been at work, yet, since artificial selection im-
plies variations, it implies that the selected plants and animals
have been modified by external influences, and that the modifica-
tions have been inherited and accumulated. And then, if there
needs a case in which artificial selection has not come into play,
we have a sufiiciently striking one in the human race itself.
Unless there be adopted the hypothesis (excluded by Lord Salis-
bury's implied belief) that varieties of men have been independ-
ently created, the conclusion is irresistible that their differences
have been caused by unlikenesses in their lives carried on in un-
like environments. Either their differences are uncaused, which
is absurd, or they are differences which have linfitted each varie-
ty for its conditions, which is also absurd, or they are differences
which have fitted each variety for its conditions ; and, if so, they
have resulted from the response of the constitution to the condi-
tions themselves : the only supposition which is not absurd. And
that this is the necessary interpretation is shown by cases in
which either by the killing off of unfit individuals, or by the
effects of habit, or by both extraordinary adaptations have been
produced. There are, as examples, the Fuegians, who in their
wretched islands go about naked while the falling snow melts on
