LORD SALISBURY ON EVOLUTION. 571*
their bodies ; there are tlie Yakutes the " iron men/' as they are
called who, in their rigorous climate, sleep in the open air and
wake covered with hoar-frost ; there are the Hindus, constitu-
tionally adjusted to the tropics in such way that they can sleep
in the burning sunshine ; and, again, there are Indian hill-tribes
living comfortably in malarious localities which are fatal not
only to Europeans but to Hindus. Moreover, while we thus get
proof that organisms fit themselves to their environments, we
also get proof that there simultaneously result divergences and
re- divergences of races and varieties. Men have spread from
some original locality into other localities in all directions ; and
there have resulted sundry widely unlike families appropriate to
their respective habitats, and less unlike breeds diverging within
them, such as the Aryan peoples of Europe. This process which
the human species shows us is, and always has been, the process
with every kind of organism. While we are shown a general
cause which has been superposing modifications upon modifica-
tions from the beginning, we are also shown how there has arisen
a concomitant formation of class within class. The cause we find
in operation is a cause of the kind needed to explain the remark-
able relations above described.
Thus we have four great groups of observed facts (or five if
we include those concerning rudimentary organs) all suggesting
the same history, all converging to the same conclusion : their
joint significance being immense in comparison with the signifi-
cance of each group taken by itself. And in the adaptation of
organisms to their conditions, directly or indirectly brought
about, we have a cause which makes these aggregates of phe-
nomena intelligible. On these mutually-verifying sets of evi-
dences the hypothesis of evolution stands by itself, quite apart
from any conclusions respecting its special causes. Hence the
meaning of the assertion made above, that even were all theories
about the special causes disproved, the doctrine of evolution
would remain standing.
And now, having contemplated the observed facts which indi-
rectly support the hypothesis of evolution, let us ask for the ob-
served facts which indirectly support the alternative hypothesis.
There are none. Neither in the air, nor on the earth, nor in the
water do we find anything implying special creation. Nay, in-
deed, not only do we see no facts favoring the supposition, but we
see a world of facts conflicting with it. From hour to hour inci-
dents showing the uniformity of law and the constant relations
of causes and effects generate in us convictions so incongruous
with it as to produce instant disbelief of an alleged special crea-
tion now occurring. Should any one say that having taken into
his room a bowl containing nothing but clear water, he saw a fish
