572* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
suddenly appear in it; or should lie say tliat he had seen near
the ground a mass of cloud which, contracting and getting more
dense, assumed the form of an unknown animal, what comment
should we make ? Simply that he was either deluding himself or
trying to delude us. We should show by our ridicule that the
idea of a special creation, when brought distinctly before us by
alleged cases, is too absurd to be entertained.
See, then, the antithesis. While the hj^pothesis of organic
evolution is indirectly supported by great masses of observed
facts, the hypothesis of special creation is not only without indi-
rect support from observed facts, but is indirectly contraindicated
by the enormous accumulation of observed facts constituting our
daily experience.
Striking as this antithesis is, it becomes still more striking
when we contemplate the two hypotheses under another aspect.
Lord Salisbury implies that in the absence of observed facts di-
rectly proving the formation of a species by natural selection, the
hypothesis of natural selection can not be sustained. He says :
" I think Prof. Weismann is justified in saying that we can not,
either with more or less ease, imagine the process of natural selec-
tion " ; and he presently implies that in the absence of positive
proof the hypothesis of natural selection is "mere conjecture."
Let me in the first place point out that Prof. Weismann's mean-
ing is here seriously misrepresented. In the passage Lord Salis-
bury refers to. Prof. Weismann says of natural selection : " We
accept it not because we are able to demonstrate the process in
detail ; not even because we can with more or less ease imagine it
[in detail], but simply because ive must, etc." And that this is
his meaning is proved by the fact that a previous passage to
which he refers by the words "as already indicated," runs as fol-
lows : " For it is really very difficult to imagine this process of
natural selection in its details." Surely there is an immense dif-
ference between the meaning intended ami the meaning ascribed.
It is perfectly easy to imagine that a flying cannon-ball will pres-
ently fall and do damage, while it may be " very difiicult to im-
agine," " in its details," the damage it will do. But, passing over
this, let us now consider whether, in the absence of observed facts
proving the production of a species by natural selection, we have
warrant for the theory of natural selection.
I have always regretted that Mr. Darwin chose this phrase to
describe his hypothesis. The word "selection" connotes a con-
scious process, and so involves a tacit personalization of Nature.
By tacitly personalizing that aggregate of surrounding agencies
which we call Nature, it introduces vaguely the idea that Nature
may select as a human breeder selects can select and increase a
