LORD SALISBURY ON EVOLUTION: 573*
particular quality which is true only under certain conditions.
Further, it raises the thought of choice suggests the notion that
Nature may or may not operate in the alleged way.
It was partly the consciousness that wrong ideas are called up
in these ways which led me, when writing The PrinciiDles of
Biology, to substitute the phrase " survival of the fittest " partly,
I say, because, as is shown in 1G4 of that work, the phrase natu-
rally emerges when we contemplate, from a purely physical point
of view, the phenomena of life and death in connection with sur-
rounding actions. My belief is that had Mr. Darwin used this
phrase, many misunderstandings of his theory would never have
arisen, and many objections to his inferences would have been
excluded. Among other excluded objections would have been
that raised by Lord Salisbury, who thinks that, lacking a basis of
observed facts, the hypothesis of natural selection has no basis.
For if we substitute the phrase "survival of the fittest," it be-
comes manifest that the process is a necessary one. To see this
it needs but to affirm the opposite and say that the law is sur-
vival of the unfittest that those creatures which were fit to live
have died, and those have lived which were unfit to live. These
statements embody a contradiction. Hence survival of the fittest
is inevitable is just as certain a truth as a mathematical axiom,
which we accept because the negation of it is inconceivable.
Heredity, otherwise manifest, being clearly proved by the ex-
perience of breeders, survival of the fittest necessarily implies
that those individuals which have structures best adapted to
their environments, will, on the average, have better adapted pos-
terity than the rest ; and that so the fitness to the environment
will be maintained. A further unavoidable corollary is that if
the habitat changes in character, or if there occurs a migration to
another habitat, the most unfitted will disappear in a greater pro-
portion than the least unfitted ; and that from destruction of the
most unfitted in successive generations, there will result a con-
tinually-diminished unfitness to the new habitat, until there is
reached a fitness for it. These are inferences which it is impos-
sible to escape.
Whether by this process a particular variation will be perpetu-
ated and increased, is quite another question. The answer de-
pends on the answer to another question in what degree, all
things considered, does the particular variation conduce to main-
tenance of life ? But while the survival and multiplication of
individuals having some advantageous modification of structure,
is not a necessary result, the survival and multiplication of indi-
viduals having natures, or aggregates of characters, which best fit
them to the requirements of their lives, is a necessary result; and
it is a necessary truth that this involves the establishment of a
