574* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
varied structure where this in a predominant degree aids them in
fulfilling the vital requirements of their lives.
Mark, now, how the strong contrast set forth in the preceding
section is thus strengthened. We saw that the evolution-hypoth-
esis is indirectly supported by five great classes of observed facts ;
and that the perpetual adaptation and re-adaptation of constitu-
tion to conditions is a general cause of the kind required to ac-
count for these facts. Here we see that, of the special causes
which effect adaptation, the chief one, survival of the fittest, is
not only one the operation of which we can clearly conceive, but
one which it is impossible to conceive as not operating. On the
other hand, we saw that there are absolutely no observed facts
which yield indirect support to the hypothesis of special creation ;
but that, contrariwise, all the observed facts of daily experience,
proving a constant order among phenomena, negative the hy-
pothesis. And we also saw that while the process of special crea-
tion can not be rationally conceived, the negation of it is perfectly
conceivable. Thus, bringing the contrast to a focus, it appears
that the one is credited both a posteriori and a priori, and the
other is discredited both a posteriori and a jyriori. No stronger
contrast in credibility can well be imagined.
Authoritative expositions of the process of natural selection
afford no basis for that burlesque of it with which Lord Salisbury
amused the public. The Origin of Species does not assume, as a
requisite, the chance meeting of similarly varied individuals ; and
in Chapters HI. and VI, of Mr. Wallace's Darwinism, where are
assigned evidences which have accumulated since Mr. Darwin
wrote, there are described processes quite other than that which
Lord Salisbury describes. After referring to artificial selection,
and implying that the success of breeders in producing a desired
variety depends on their skill " in bringing the right mates to-
gether," he goes on to ask :
" Bvit in natural selection who is to supply the breeder's place ? . , .
What is to secure that the two individuals of opposite sexes in the primeval
forest, who have been both accidentally blessed with the same advanta-
geous variation, shall meet, and transmit by inheritance that variation to
their successors ? "
Even in the absence of the expositions above referred to,
knowledge of familiar facts should have excluded this represen-
tation of the requirements. The contents of stud-books and herd-
books might have been expected to suflice. It needs but to re-
member the care with which is specified a descent from some
noted sire which lived several generations ago, to recognize the
prevailing belief that a variation existing in a particular animal
is transmitted in a greater or less degree to posterity, quite apart
