THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GOLD. 39
trouble. Cleanliness of habit and tborougb disinfection of spu-
tum must largely depend upon the conscientiousness of consump-
tives themselves. All these precautions involve a great amount of
self-sacrifice on the part of those affected with this terrible dis-
ease ; they necessitate the realization of certain facts which we
would gladly keep from the sufferer ; they demand a sacrifice of
sentiment on the part of those near and dear to the patient. To
this extent the attempt to exterminate the greatest plague of
civilization is cold-blooded. But a worse alternative confronts
us. So long as we neglect to consider tuberculosis as a contagious
disease, though not so conspicuously so as the eruptive fevers;
so long as we occupy homes in which the germs of this disease
linger, neglecting to disinfect, repaint, and repaper ; so long as sick
and well mingle without an effort to destroy the virus, so long
will the great white scourge shorten valuable lives and bring
mourning on millions. Because its foulness is concealed, because
it strikes painlessly and its wound is not felt for weeks or months,
because it does not mark its victims in letters of red or choke them
in a week with a visible mass of poison, shall we ignore the fact
that this insidious, relentless foe is the chief lieutenant of Death ?
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GOLD.
By CHAELES S. ASHLEY.
IT is, I think, universally claimed by advocates of the free
coinage of silver that the so-called demonetization of silver
has led to an appreciation in the value of gold; and that this
appreciation has worked grievous hardship to the debtor, or, what
is largely the same, the producing classes, who are thus obliged
to pay in a more valuable currency than that in which their
debts were contracted. The claim is that, by an artificial change
in the value of the dollar, the farmer has to produce twice or
three times as many bushels of wheat as formerly to pay off his
mortgage. The resulting embarrassment of the debtor classes
has, in this view, spread among other classes, and has led to
panics and long-continued depression in business. Aside from
the natural desire of the silver miners to have their product
doubled in debt-paying power, this is the whole basis of the silver
agitation.
If one were to say that for this theory, upon which an interna-
tional agitation has been built, and which is countenanced by a
large number who have given the matter considerable investiga-
tion, some of whom are generally reputed to be competent for the
purpose, there is absolutely no foundation in fact, and that, so
