LORD SALISBURY ON EVOLUTION. 577*
tongued will fail where a number of the longer-tongued succeed.
As every creature multiplies up to the limits set by the means of
subsistence, herds of giraffes must be from time to time under-
fed. At such times the short-tongued ones must be more under-
fed than the long-tongued ones. The difference of feeding may
not be such as to produce in a direct way greater mortality in the
one class than in the other, but it may readily tell indirectly.
Especially will there be more deaths of the weaker adults, and
the less vigorous young they have produced, when the herd is
chased by carnivores. Those which are a yard or two behind the
rest lose their lives ; and a very small defect in the constitutional
state of the adults, or the strength of the young, may entail the
slight difference in speed implied. So that, other things equal,
more of the short-tongued and their offspring will die than of the
long-tongued and their offspring. Hence, without any special
choice of mates, it will result that in the next generation the aver-
age of length of tongue will be greater. Through subsequent
generations the same process will go on increasing this advan-
tageous variation, until some limit is reached at which disadvan-
tages check it, or at which the life- sustaining advantages from
some other variation become greater.
So that in the absence of any such improbable events as those
Lord Salisbury supposes to be necessary, there are two co-operat-
ing ways in which survival of the fittest establishes in a species a
useful modification of structure.
The great length of time required for the production of species
by the evolutionary process, is supposed by Lord Salisbury to
furnish a reason for disbelief. In support of his argument he
cites Lord Kelvin's conclusion that life can not have existed on
the Earth more than a hundred millions of years. Respecting
Lord Kelvin's estimate it may be remarked that the truth of a
conclusion depends primarily on the character of the premises ;
that mathematical processes do not furnish much aid in the
choice of premises ; that no mathematical genius, however trans-
cendent, can evolve true conclusions out of premises that are
either incorrect or incomplete ; and that while putting absolute
faith in Lord's Kelvin's reasonings, it is possible to doubt the
data with which he sets out. Suppressing criticism, however, let
us accept in full the hundred million years, and see what comes
of it. Lord Salisbury argues :
" If we think of that vast distance over which Darwin conducts us, from
the jelly-fish lying on the primeval heach to man as we know him now ;
if we reflect that the prodigious change requisite to transform one into the
other is made up of a chain of generations, each advancing by a minute
variation from the form of its predecessor, and if we further reflect that
TOL, XLVIII. 41*
