578* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
these successive changes are so minute that in the course of our historical
period say three thousand years this progressive variation has not ad-
vanced by a single step perceptible to our eyes, in respect to man or the
animals and plants with which man is familiar, we shall admit that for a
chain of change so vast, of which the smallest link is longer than our
recorded history, the biologists are making no extravagant claim when
they demand at least many hundred million years for the accomplishment
of the stupendous process."
I will not stop to criticise the assumption that the jelly-fish is
a remote ancestor of man ; but, accepting all his data, vfill simply
inquire how far Lord Salisbury's conclusion is warranted by them.
As introductory to the criticism, I can not do better than quote
another passage from the early essay named at the outset : merely
remarking that the physiologist referred to as adverse in 1852,
would not be thus referred to now. After remarking that those
who know nothing of the science of life may naturally " think the
hypothesis that all races of beings, man inclusive, may in process
of time have been evolved from the simplest monad, a ludicrous
one,'' the passage continues :
" But for the physiologist, who knows that every individual being is so
evolved who knows, further, that in their earliest condition the germs of
all plants and animals whatever are so similar, '' that there is no appreci-
able distinction amongst them, which would enable it to be determined
whether a particular molecule is the germ of a Conferva or of an Oak, of a
Zoophyte or of a Man";* for him to make a difficulty of the matter is
inexcusable. Surely if a single cell may, when subjected to certain infiu -
ences, become a man in the space of twenty years ; there is nothing absurd
in the hypothesis that under certain other influences, a cell may, in the
course of millions of years, give origin to the human race."
Suppose we pursue the comparison indicated in the last sen-
tence. Lord Salisbury invites us to reflect on "the prodigious
change " required to transform his hypothetical jelly-fish into a
man. He appears never to have reflected upon " the prodigious
change " which in a few months transforms the human ovum into
an infant. The contrast in structure may not be absolutely as
great, since, in the course of the change from infancy to maturity,
there is not only increase of size but some increase of structural
development. In their essentials, however, the two organizations
are alike : differences of proportion and finish chiefly distinguish-
ing them. Let us, then, compare the embryological changes with
the evolutionary changes, in their amounts and in the times taken
by them. The nine months of human gestation, more exactly
stated, is 280 days, that is 6,720 hours or 403,200 minutes. Thus,
then, the total change from the nucleated cell constituting the
human ovum to the developed structure of the infant just born, is
* Carpenter, Principles of Comparative Physiology, p. 4:'74:.
