58o* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tical origin, without suggesting- the method of their genesis or the nature
of their common parentage. If they were organic beings all our difficul-
ties would be solved by mutteinng the comfortable word ' evolution ' one
of those indefinite words from time to time vouchsafed to humanity, which,
have the gift of alleviating so many perplexities and masking so many
gaps in our knowledge. But the families of elementary atoms do not
breed ; and we can not therefore ascribe their ordered difference to acci-
dental variations perpetuated by heredity under the influence of natural
selection."
This passage obliges us to infer that Lord Salisbury supposes
tbe theory of evolution to be concerned only with things that
" breed." If the molecules of matter were " organic beings/' he
says, " the comfortable word ' evolution ' " might be thought to
suggest a solution ; but since they are not organic beings, evolu-
tion has no place. Apparently, then. Lord Salisbury thinks evo-
lution is concerned only with animals and plants. It is difficult
to believe that, well acquainted as he is with the science of the
day, he really means that which his words imply. We seem al-
most bound to assume an inadvertence of expression or a lapse of
thought. Still as his statement and his apparent belief have
been put before a million or two of readers, it seems needful to
do something toward dissipating the misapprehension caused,
by briefly indicating what is meant by evolution as rightly
understood.
The Cosmos as a whole and in all its parts has reached its
present state either supernaturally or naturally ; and if naturally
then not living things only but all other things have come natu-
rally to be what they are. A doctrine which alleges evolution
for the animate world and assumes creation of the inanimate
world is absurd. Evolution, if alleged at all, must be alleged as
coextensive with all existence save that which is undergoing
the reverse process of dissolution.
One who sees that our interpretations must leave us for ever
Ignorant concerning the data of the process the space and the
time, the matter and the motion, as well as the ultimate energy
manifested through them may yet rationally seek a proximate
interpretation. If things of all kinds, inorganic, organic, and
superorganic, have become what they are, not supernaturally but
naturally, the implication is that their present state is the out-
come of preceding states ; and that the genesis of changes through-
out the past has been of like nature with the genesis of changes
at present. What, then, is the most dominant trait common to
successions of changes ?
A thing ever being modified and re-modified diverges more
and more from its original condition : accumulated changes pro-
duce transformation. What is the general nature of that pro-
gressive transformation which constitutes evolution ? The first
