582* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
transformations gradually produced. The empirical generaliza-
tion indicated above as reached by contemplation of phenomena
of various orders, becomes a rational generalization on finding
that throughout these various orders of phenomena a like co-
operation of causes inevitably works out similar observed effects.
It is not by accident but by necessity that these transformations
of all kinds have common traits.
This is not the place in which to explain and illustrate this
universal law of transformation and these universal causes of
transformation. Here I am concerned merely to indicate their
scope, and to say that the Doctrine of Evolution, rightly con-
ceived, has for its subject-matter not the changes exhibited by
the organic world only, but also the changes which went on dur-
ing an enormous period before life began, and the changes which
have gone on since life rose to its highest form, and Man, passing
into the associated state, gave origin to the endlessly varied prod-
ucts of social life. It has for its subject-matter the entire cosmic
process, from nebular condensation down to the development of
picture-records into written language, or the formation of local
dialects ; and its general result is to show that all the minor
transformations in their infinite varieties are parts of the one
vast transformation, and display throughout the same law and
cause that the Infinite and Eternal Energy has manifested itself
everywhere and always in modes ever unlike in results but ever
like in principle.
How utterly different the popular conception of evolution is
from evolution as rightly conceived will now be manifest. The
prevailing belief is doubly erroneous contains an error within
an error. The theory of natural selection is wrongly supposed to
be identical with the theory of organic evolution ; and the theory
of organic evolution is wrongly supposed to be identical with the
theory of evolution at large. In current thought the entire trans-
formation is included in one part of it, and that part of it is in-
cluded in one of its factors. From his place of vantage Lord
Salisbury might have done much to dissipate these delusions ;
but, unhappily, both his language and his arguments have
tended to do the reverse. Nineteenth Century.
Sir Joseph Lister has been chosen president for the Liverpool meeting'
of the British Association, to be held in 1896, beginning September 16th.
The meeting for 1897 was appointed to be held in Toronto.
Prof. Weismann proposes germinal selection as the name of a hypoth-
esis supplementary to that of natural selection, by wbich he ex^jlaius an
apparent protection of useful variations from their first appearance, so that
when wanted for natural selection they are always at hand.
