EXPIRED AIR AND VENTILATION. 583^
EXPIRED AIR AND PROBLEMS OF VENTILATION.
THE following are substantially the conclusions reached by
Drs. J. S. Billings, S. Weir Mitchell, and D. H. Bergey re-
garding the composition of expired air and its effects upon animal
life, which are published in the Smithsonian Contributions.
These contradictions of certain accepted views are important and
likely to give rise to discussion.
There is no peculiar organic matter which is poisonous to
animals (excluding man) in the air expired by healthy mice, spar-
rows, rabbits, guinea-pigs, or men. The injiirious effects of such
air appeared to be due entirely to the diminution of oxygen or the
increase of carbonic acid, or to a combination of these two fac-
tors. It is very improbable that the minute quantity of organic
matter contained in the air expired from human lungs has any
deleterious influence upon men who inhale it in ordinary rooms.
In ordinary quiet respiration no bacteria are contained in the
expired air. In the act of coughing or sneezing such organisms
may be thrown out. The minute quantity of ammonia, or of com-
bined nitrogen, or other oxidizable matters found in the condensed
moisture of human breath appears to be largely due to products
of the decomposition of organic matter which is constantly going
on in the mouth and pharynx. The air in an inhabited room,
such as a hospital ward, in which experiments were made, is con-
taminated from many sources besides the expired air of the occu-
pants, and the most important of these contaminations are in the
form of minute particles or dusts. The experiments on the air of
the hospital ward showed that in this dust there were micro-or-
ganisms, including some of the bacteria which produce inflamma-
tion and suppuration, and it is probable that these were the only
really dangerous elements in this air. The results of experi-
ments, in which animals were compelled to breathe air vitiated
by the products of either their own respiration or by those of
other animals, make it improbable that there is any peculiar vol-
atile poisonous matter in the air expired by healthy men and ani-
mals other than carbonic acid. The effects of reduction of oxygen
and increase of carbonic acid, to a certain degree, appear to
be the same in artificial mixtures of these gases as in air in
which the change in their proportions has been produced
by respiration. An excessively high or low temperature has a
decided effect upon the production of asphyxia by diminution of
oxygen and increase of carbonic acid. At high temperatures the
respiratory centers are affected, where evaporation from the
skin and mucous surfaces is checked by the air being saturated
with moisture ; at low temperatures the consumption of oxygen
