EDITOR'S TABLE.
559
supernatural idea? It may be said
that so long as tlie Bible is read and
expounded and treated as authorita-
tive in tbe churches, the same con-
flict between naturalism outside the
Church and supernaturalism within
it will exist; but to this may be an-
swered that on the clergy rests the
responsibility for finding a modus
Vivendi between the two, and that,
with their special learning and the
special interest they have in the
matter, much may be possible to
them that is wholly beyond the
scope of the lay teacher in a public
school. There are clergymen who
tell us to-day that it is in no wise
necessary to believe in the biblical
story of creation as a record of facts,
and some are almost prepared to dis-
pense with all belief in the miracu-
lous ; but could the school teacher in
whose hands the Bible was placed
as an authoritative text-book be al-
lowed or expected to indulge in such
critical exercitations ? The idea is
ridiculous : a text-book is a text-
book, and its meaning must lie on
the surface; its words must be sus-
ceptible of being taken at their face
value; and no special gifts or graces
must be required for its satisfactory
use as a text-book.
That the Bible as a whole is a
most impressive book ; that it bears
a noble stamp of earnestness and
moral elevation ; that it contains
moral teaching of inestimable value
these are propositions which we
should be the last to deny ; but, ad-
mitting them to the full, we still
consider that it is a wise and true in-
stinct which reconciles the majority
even of those who place the high-
est estimate on the Bible to dispens-
ing with its use in the public schools.
But how about those masses who,
according to Dean Carmichael, are
becoming educated, and owing to that
very fact more dangerous than the
mob that stormed the Bastile ? That
all the signs of the times are favor-
able we by no means think ; bu^ as
regards the influence of popular edu-
cation, what we dread is not the
awakening of the intellect of the mul-
titude so much as the stifling of it
and the enslaving of it to false ideas.
So far as pojiular education has an
awakening effect, its influence, we
doubt not, will be good. A man does
not become dangerous because he
has learned to sign his name ; but he
becomes dangerous both to himself
and to others if he has been taught
to dissociate cause and effect ; if he
has got it into his head that benefits
may be obtained without labor ; if
his brain has been muddled with the
notion that others are responsible for
making him happy and prosperous.
We dread aii education which in any
way withdraws a youth from the
salutary influence of natural reac-
tions and tends to give him an arti-
ficial conception of the world he lives
in. We dread an education which
favors the formation of indolent hab-
its, or which confuses and enfeebles
the mind by calling upon it to pur-
sue abstract trains of thought when
it should be occupied with the con-
crete. We dread an education which
at once excites ambition and disin-
clines for toil ; which gives a smat-
tering of many things, but no true
sense of power or competence in re-
gard to anything ; which represses
individuality and so robs character
of a main element of strength. And
all these unfavorable results, we fear,
are wrought by much of the educa-
tion that is imparted to-day. But to
try to conquer our evils or avert our
perils by driving back the masses into
ecclesiastical penfolds is as chimeri-
cal an idea as could well be conceived.
The world is willing, and more than
willing, to listen to those who can
shed a glory upon human life bor-
rowed from regions of faith and hope
that lie above our ordinary range of
