560
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
thought ; but it is not willing, and
never henceforth will be willing, to
substitute any form of theological
prescription for the authority which
it has learned to attach to verified
truth. If we have battles to fight we
must fight them, and perhaps, when
it comes to that, we may learn a wis-
dom which in times of comparative
ease and prosperity we were inca-
pable of learning. Certain it is that
in this world everything has its spe-
cific cause, which means that every
evil has its specific remedy. Trouble,
it was long ago observed, does not
spring out of the ground ; it is for us
to find out where it does spring
from ; and when the trouble be-
comes acute, our intellectual opera-
tions are wont to be greatly stimu-
lated.
The dean would have us restore
the Bible to the schools and place the
latter in efi'ect under the control of
the clergy. Our idea is to study
out the problem of education in the
widest sense until we have, in a
really effectual manner, correlated it
with the whole life of society. The
former is the ecclesiastical remedy
for social ills ; the latter is the sci-
entific, and we believe it to be that
which the future is destined to jus-
tify.
THE EUNDEEDTH ANNIVERSARY OF
THE FRENCH INSTITUTE.
The Institut de France, popular-
ly known as the French Academy,
and which is undoubtedly the oldest
and the most famous of the world's
learned societies, celebrated with
great ceremony and with the active
participation of the Government of
France, on October 23d-26th last, the
hundredth anniversary of its exist-
ence ; one of the most noted and
pleasant features of which was the
hearty welcome extended to its for-
eign associates and corresi)onding
members. As it is generally under-
stood that these two titles are the
highest honors which France can
award in testimony of intellectual
work actually done by foreigners
the cross of the Legion of Honor
being often conferred for merely po-
litical reasons it is a matter of in-
terest to know what citizens of the
United States have been the recipi-
ents of these honors. Preliminary,
however, to their specification, it is
desirable to explain the organization
of the institute. It consists of five
departments or divisions, each of
which is designated as an academy
namely, the Academic Fran^aise,
Academic des Inscriptions et Belles-
Lettres, Academic des Sciences,
Academic des Beaux- Arts, Academic
des Sciences Morales et Politique.
Each academy, except the Academic
Fran^aise, which comprises a general
reunion of all the other academies, is
divided into sections for the con-
sideration of special subjects, and is
made iip of members of the institute
who are regarded as specialists, or
acknowledged authorities in differ-
ent departments of learning. Thus,
the domain of the "Academic des In-
scriptions et Belles-Lettres " embraces
the learned languages, antiquities,
monuments. Oriental literature, and
history; that of "Sciences," astrono-
my, geography, navigation, general
physics, chemistry, zoology, botany,
medicine, andx surgery ; that of
" Beaux- Arts," painting, sculpture,
architecture, engraving, and music ;
and that of " Sciences Morales et Poli-
tique," morals, philosophy, jurispru-
dence, political economy, finance, and
philosophical history. Each of the
academies holds weekly meetings,
and once a year the five academies as
a rule hold a public meeting in com-
mon ; and occasionally other general
meetings for the reception of new
members and the distribution of
prizes. In virtue of endowments, be-
