40 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
far from there having been a rise in the value of gold, there has
been an appreciable fall, he might be thought to take an extreme
position. To that position, however, a careful examination of the
facts has led me ; and this article is written to present the evi-
dence on the question.*
To ascertain the value of gold, two sources of inquiry are open :
First, what is the comparative standing of gold in the mass of
commodities, such as labor, land, agricultural products, manufac-
tured products, etc. ? Second, what are the influences directly
affecting the value of gold, such as rate of production and rela-
tive demand for its use ? In considering the evidence on the first
point we must be careful to bear in mind what our silver friends
generally, if not always, ignore i. e., the influence of railways
and inventions in cheapening products. Kerosene sold at Toledo
forty years ago for seventy-five cents a gallon ; recently as low as
five cents. If, then, we ignored all other commodities and the
influence of discovery, we might reach the absurd conclusion that
gold had appreciated fifteen times and silver seven and a half
times in forty years. So with the value of wheat and cotton
in Liverpool. Improvements have cheapened transportation so
vastly that, though the Ohio farmer now gets more for his wheat
and corn than he did in the "forties," those products sell in
Liverpool for one third the former price. So this low price in
Liverpool does not mean that gold, as compared with wheat and
corn, has risen. It merely registers the force of other circum-
stances. In using this method of comparison, therefore, we must
be careful to consider not simply present as compared with for-
mer prices, but also other matters affecting market values ; and it
is best, whenever possible, to make comparison with commodities
where the methods of production and transportation are compara-
tively unchanged.
I. For the purpose of comparison we shall go back a period
of fifty years, and by observing the change in price-level of a
given amount of gold we shall have pretty clear evidence of its
rise or falL Such a method ought to meet with acceptance by
the silver men, because they are, I think, universally fond of as-
serting that for hundreds of years the "bimetallic standard " pro-
vided a good currency, free from all objections, and that our great
* Never until the past few months have the " gold " men seemed to put forth their
case in public argument. Their feeling seemed to be that the silver agitation was a
piece of childish folly which required simply a little soothing talk about international bi-
metallism and " increased use of silver," and other Utopian schemes. Accordingly, the silver
men have really had the field to themselves, and have filled the air with talk about the
" appreciation " of gold, " the crime of '73," etc., almost without contradiction ; so that the
public mind has given far more credit to these fairy tales than could otherwise have hap-
pened.
