EDITOR'S TABLE.
561
quests, and the like, the institute is in
receipt of annual revenue of at least
five million francs ($1,000,000), which
it distributes annually in the form of
prizes for merit in respect to literary-
work, inventions, scientific discover-
ies or researches, and also for ex-
amples of what are termed " impe-
cunious " virtue.
The institute, comprising the
above five academies, is primarily
composed of members, who by rule
or custom are always and exclusive-
ly natives of France, and who, on
the assumption that their achieve-
ments in the various departments of
learning have assured to them per-
manent reputation, ai*e popularly
designated as the Immortels. Each
one of these receives an annual life
salary from the state of twelve hun-
dred francs, and a small additional
sum contingent on personal attend-
ance at the regular meetings of the
academies and Institute.
Besides the primary or permanent
members, the institute is made up
of two other classes of members
namely, Associes Etrangers (for-
eign associates) and Correspondants.
The number of the former is lim-
ited to thirty-two persons of for-
eign birth and residence, and com-
prises such names as Gladstone,
Alma Tadema, Sir Fi*ederick Leigh-
ton, President of the British Royal
Academy, Max Miiller, Sir William
Thomson (Lord Kelvin), Sir John
Millais, and Vei'di, the Italian com-
poser. Of the names of members of
this class deceased within a compar-
atively recent period may be men-
tioned those of Agassiz, Helmholtz,
De Candolle, Richard Owen, Curtius,
the German historian, and Bunsen
and Wohler, the celebrated German
chemists. As yet the name of no
citizen of the United States has been
inscribed on the roll of the foreign
associates of the institute, although
it is understood that in a recent elec-
VOL. XLVIII. 40
tion to fill the vacancy occasioned by
the death of a member, the name of
Prof. Simon Newcomb, of Washing-
ton, lacked but a few votes of receiv-
ing this honor.
Next in order in the organization
of the institute is the class of corre-
sponding members, an election to
which, irrespective of nationality, is
regarded as a very high honor,
though not as great as a membership
among the thirty-two foreign asso-
ciates. The number of correspond-
ents reported in the Annuaire of
the institute for 1893 was two hun-
dred and fifty -six, about one third of
whom were French citizens. The
following list exhibits the names and
the date of the election of the corre-
spondents, including those recently
deceased, who have been elected from
the United States :
Prof. James D. Dana, zoologist,
New Haven, Conn., 1873, deceased;
David A. Wells, economist, Norwich,
Conn., 1874, elected to fill the va-
cancy occasioned by the death of
John Stuart Mill ; Prof. Simon New-
comb, astronomer, Washington, D.
C, 1874 ; Prof. William Whitney,
linguist. New Haven, 1877, deceased ;
George Bancroft, historian, 1877,
deceased ; Asaph Hall, astronomer,
Washington, D. C, 1879; Benjamin
Apthorpe Gould, astronomer, Cam-
bridge, Mass., 1881; Richard Morris
Hunt, artist, 1882, deceased ; James
Hall, geologist, Albany, N. Y., 1884;
Alexander Agassiz, naturalist, Cam-
bridge, Mass., 1887; Prof. Samuel
Langley, Superintendent Smithso-
nian Institution, astronomer, 1888
seven living members, none of whom
were present at the centennial cele-
bration. Among some of the present
or recent correspondents from coun-
tries other than France and the
United States may be mentioned the
names of Momsen, the distinguished
German historian ; Struve, the Rus-
sian astronomer; Lockyer, Huggins,
