;62
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Huxley, Burne-Jones, Bryce, Fitz-
james Stephen, Goschen, Sir John
Hooker, England ; Nordenskiold,
Sweden ; Vogt, Switzerland ; Vir-
chow, Roscher, Germany ; Lanciani,
Rome; Jacoby, Austria, etc.
The Institute of France is not as
important an organization as it was
fifty years ago, but it is still influen-
tial through its elections, which are
regarded as acknowledgment of sci-
entific merit, and the prizes it annu-
ally awards for original research, dis-
coveries, and inventions. It main-
tains its authority not upon its pres-
tige in the past, but upon the fact that
it always enrolls among its members
the most distinguished scientists and
writers of France, and such citizens
of other countries as have in its
judgment done great and original
work in any department of human
knowledge. In the opinion of one
of its most distinguished living mem-
bers, M. Berthelot, the noted French
chemist, and present (1895) French
Minister of Foreign Affairs, the
Academy of Sciences, " if it no longer
has the initiative of discoveries, it
at least constitutes a dike against
charlatanism, and aids in giving
the widest publicity to the acbieve-
ments of French and foreign sa-
vants.''''
Jicittttifijc %X\txxd\xxt.
<;^'
SPECIAL BOOKS.
The world is always conscious of an addition to its intellectual wealth
when a leader in original scientific work writes a book. Men like to hear
from the masters, especially when they speak, as Prof. Young does, a lan-
guage that inspires while it instructs.* When the first edition of this
uniquely interesting book was put forth in 1881 a warm welcome awaited
it, not only from astronomers who were eager to learn what one of the
foremost investigators of solar phenomena had to say about the sun, but
from all readers who take pleasure in seeing the literary powers of our
mother tongue turned to useful account in the presentation of the facts of
science. And the welcome grew as the circle of the book's readers rapidly
widened. No volume of the International Scientific Series has proved more
continuously po^Jular.
But the fourteen years that have elapsed since the first appearance of
Prof. Young's book have witnessed remarkable advances in astronomy,
and particularly with regard to our knowledge of the sun. For a time it
was possible to keep the book up to date by notes and appendices to its suc-
cessive editions. At length this method of revision no longer sufficed, and
the author undertook a thorough rehandling of the work, involving the re-
writing of considerable portions, and the addition in the text of much that
was needed " to make the book fairly representative of the solar science of
to-day." That in its revised form it now answers the above definition,
quoted from the author's new preface, no one who knows Prof. Young's
habitual caution and precision of statement will doubt.
No authoritative utterance concerning a progressive branch of science
The Sun. By Charles A. Yonng, Ph. D., LL. D., Professor of Astronomy in Princeton University.
New and revised edition. Pp. 363, 12mo. New York : D. Appleton & Co. Price, $2.
