564 POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
concerning them if they had remained unseen except during- eclipses, we
can echo our author's opinion that success in revealing the mysterious
corona in a similar manner " is certainly devoutly to be desired."
Prof. Young has so long been a conspicuous and brilliant figure in the
field of spectroscopic investigation that one naturally turns to his revised
chapter on The Spectroscope and the Solar Spectrum with pleasing antici-
pations which are not disappointed. The results of the immense work
accomplished in the last decade are here ranged in order with an expert
hand, and the remaining gaps in the line of acquired knowledge are made
clearly apparent. The list of elements known to exist in the sun has been
largely extended in the past few years, but still many that go to constitute
a great portion of the crust of the earth have not been recognized in the
solar spectrum. Why are they absent ? Is it simply a failure to show
themselves, or do they not exist there at all ? Prof. Young indicates his
preference for the view that the missing elements are not really absent
from the sun. but only nonapparent, although he points out that the answer
to the question is not easy. And then he goes on to marshal some most
interesting facts and considerations relative to this subject, and discusses
briefly but luminously such topics as the multiple spectra of certain ele-
ments, Lockyer's revival of the old " pantogen " speculation and his theory
of "basic lines'" common to the spectra of different substances, the later
work on the question of solar oxygen, etc.
While this book is a record of facts and achievements rather than of
theories and attempts at the interpretation of mysteries, yet the great
questions still remaining to be answered are, of course, discussed, and in a
masterly manner. A fine instance of the author's method of dealing with
such subjects is shown in the chapter on The Sun's Light and Heat, where
he succinctly reviews questions like these: ''How is the sun's heat main-
tained ? " " How long has it lasted ali'eady ? " " How long will it con-
tinue ? " " Are there any signs of either increase or diminution ? " It is
undoubtedly true, as Prof. Young remarks, that to such questions, "' in the
present state of science, only somewhat vague and unsatisfactory replies
are possible," yet they are questions the replies to which, however incom-
plete, will always command deep interest. And if the facts and specula-
tions accumulated since 1881 have not thrown much light upon these
subjects, something has been gained in a clearer comprehension of both
the strength and the wealoiess of prevailing theories. Those are pregnant
sentences, for instance, in which, after pointing out the objections to the
late Di*. Siemens's theory of the sun, he remarks: "And yet one almost
regrets that the theory can not be accepted, for it would remove very
serious difficulties that now embarrass the problem of the evolution of our
planetary system. The accepted contraction theory of Helmholtz certainly
appears to allow too little time for the sun's lifetime of radiant activity to
be consistent with a reasonable explanation of the process by which the
present state of things has come about."
In briefly summarizing the principal additions noted in the new edition
the following may be particularly mentioned : The latest work on the solar
parallax, including Newcomb's results and the observations on the minor
planets Victoria and Sappho ; accounts of all recent advances and discov-
eries in solar spectroscopy and spectro-photography, including the work of
Hale, Deslandres, Duner, etc. ; a statement of the latest accredited theories
