SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE. 565
concerning sun spots, such as Schaeberle's and Oppolzer's, and an account
of Duner's and the author's work on sun-spot spectra; a summary of recent
progress in prominence photography, etc. ; facts and conclusions concern-
ing the corona, based on recent eclipses; an account of Langley's infra-red
spectrum investigation, and of the work of De Chatelier, "Wilson, Gray, and
Scheiner on solar radiation and temperature; and, finally, a most interest-
ing supplementary note, already mentioned, on Helium. The size of the
volume has been increased by nearly thirty pages, and the number of illus-
trations has been raised from eighty -two to one hundred.
The Sun, in its new form, certainly deserves, and will unquestionably
obtain, an even greater circulation than that which it has hitherto enjoyed.
" Live '' natural history is what Prof. Miall * would lead the young
naturalist to. While he has no disparagement for systematic zoology, he
wishes to revive an interest in the writings of Swammerdam, Reaumur,
Lyonnet, and De Geer, and to pi'omote that observation of the structure and
habits of living animals which those authors pursued with most profitable
results. In so doing, he is only restoring a balance that has been dis-
turbed of late years. It is certainly an attractive field into which our au-
thor invites the amateur. Who does not love to follow a stream through its
alternations of still deejis and rippling shallovv^s, or to stroll along the shore
of the ever-moving sea ? Whether one be occupied with sport or science,
the movement of the water and the succession of traces of its action upon
the land yield no small enhancement of pleasure. Aquatic insects do not
forjii a distinct class. Repi'esentatives of eleven orders are described in
this book, so that the spice of variety is not wanting in their study. Under
the guidance of Prof. Miall one may watch at leisure the swiftly darting
whirligig beetle or examine the fine case of instruments of the female gnat
(there are no mosquitoes, our author says, in zoology). Other insects classed
as aquatic, because they pass their larval and pupal stages in water, are
drone flies (the oxen-born bees of the ancients), dragon flies, pond-skaters,
tube-making caddis-worms, etc. ; all are air-breathers in the adult form. A
phenomenon which profoundly affects the lives of these creatures is the
surface film of water. By curious adaptations they take advantage of its
tension, while on the other hand some minute creatures find it a death-ti'ap.
The reader must not look for a severely logical arrangement in this book.
There is an introduction in which lihe invasion of the waters by insects,
the surface film, live natural history, and other topics are discussed philo-
sophically. Directions for capturing specimens will be found not among
the preliminary matter, but on page 114, and there are biographical notes
about the old naturalists where the first extended citations from their re-
spective writings occur. In the illustrations sufficient magnifying power
has been used to make the organs of the insects readily distinguishable,
with the result of giving some of the little creatures a truly formidable ap-
pearance.
* The Natural History of Aquatic Insects. By L. C. Miall, F. R. S. Pp. 395, ISmo. London and
New York : Macmillan & Co. Price, 6s. ; $1.75.
