566
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
GENERAL NOTICES.
We can hardly conceive a more fascinat-
ing subject than the one treated of in this
book.* Birds, by their song, their marvelous
flight, their mysterious migrations, the inde-
pendent intelligences among them, which
have led in past times to many species be-
coming the associates of man, offer a most
delightful subject for study. It is interest-
ing to recall the fact that Cuvier and his
contemporaries regarded the birds as a closed
type, a group that seemed completely isolated
from the other classes of vertebrates, and
now they are known to be closely related to
the reptiles. Mr. Headley bas devoted con-
siderable space in his book to these reptilian
aflQnities. In his chapter on the embryo bird
he might have added other reptilian charac-
ters, such as the claws which are seen on the
fingers on the embryo sea-pigeon ; particu-
larly he might have described more fully the
tarsal bones, showing that the ascending
process of the astragalus had an independ-
ent center of ossification, and represented
in the embryo the intermedium wedged in
between the distal end of the tibia and
fibula as shown in the salamanders. Birds
may be cited for almost every point defined
by Darwin in his theory of natural selection,
not only in their reptilian afiinities, as shown
in their embi'yological and paleontological
history, but in the very remarkable exam-
ples of variation in habit?, color markings,
albinism, molting, sexual selection, protective
coloration, etc. The author's ideas of ho-
mology and analogy are somewhat obscure.
Having correctly defined analogy by the
common example of a bird's wing and an
insect's wing as being alike in function, but
different in origin of structure, and hence
analogous and not homologous, he proceeds
to say that there is no homology between
the wing of a bird and the wing of a bat ;
whereas there is the strictest homology in
origin, structure, and function. In the next
sentence he says that the tails of all verte-
brates are homologous, which is correct. Yet
here we have a few vertebrffi in one tail and
over fifty in another. We have the broad fin
* The Structure and Life of Birds. By F. W.
neadley, M. A. Pj). 417, with Illustrations. New
York : Macmillan & Co. Price, jpS.
of a fish, the trowel of the beaver, and the
climbing appendage of the monkey, and all
are indeed homologous. In the same way
limbs of the vertebrates are homologous;
whether it be the pectoral fin of a fish, the
leg of a turtle, the wing of a pterodactyl,
of a bird or a bat, or the arm of man, a
strict homology runs through them all. Mr.
Headley has managed his material admi-
rably, and one gets in a condensed form
many facts about birds which have been
brought to light within recent years. The
clearness of the illustrations gives an added
value to the book.
A difficult problem can be solved only by
attacking it from one side after another.
Prof. Donaldson has made his contribution
to ascertaining the nature and action of the
mind by setting forth the mode of growth
of the chief portion of the nervous system.*
He introduces his specific subject by three
chapters discussing the general phenomena
of growth and the rate of increase of the
whole body. Then taking up the brain and
spinal cord, he presents statistics showing at
what rates these organs increase in weight
and what weights they attain. He finds
that the facts now available " contribute
mainly to a healthy skepticism concerning
the current interpretations of brain-weight."
The author next traces the growth of the
nerve elements and describes the architec-
ture of the nervous system, calling attention
to the changes of structure that are due to
the growth of the organism. The process of
dissolution in old age is also traced. Chap-
ters on localization of function, physiological
rhythms, and fatigue furnish additional data
for the author's discussion of the subject
of education, which concludes the volume.
From these data he finds that " education
must fail to produce any fundamental changes
in the nervous organization, but to some ex-
tent it can strengthen formed structures by
exercise, and in part waken into activity the
unorganized remnant of the dormant cells,
... On neurological grounds, therefore,
* The Growth of the Brain. By Henry Her-
hert Donaldson. The Contemporary Science
Series. Pp. 374, 12mo. London : Walter Scott,
Ltd. Price, 3s. dd. New York : Charles Scrib-
ner's Sons. Price, $L25.
