FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
571
Bcience and humanity had sustained through
the deaths of Huxley and Pasteur.
Pastenr's Snccessor. We take the fol-
lowing note from the Practitioner: M. Emile
Duclaux, who has just been appointed Di-
rector of the Pasteur Institute, in succession
to M. Pasteur, was his former chief's oldest
collaborator, and had held the post of sub-
director under him since the foundation of the
institute. He wasbornat Aurillacin 1840, and
was Pasteur's assistant in the Ecole Normale
from 1862 to 1865. After teaching for a
time in the Tours Lycee in 1865-66, he was
appointed Professor of Chemistry at Cler-
mont in 1866, and afterward of Physics in
the Lyons Faculty of Sciences in 1873. In
1878 he came back to Paris as Professor of
Physics and Meteorology in the Institute
Agronomique, and iu 1888 he was appointed
Professor of Biological Chemistry in the
Faculty of Science. M. Duclaux took the
degree of Doctor of Science in 1862; but,
like Pasteur himself, he is not a member of
the medical profession, although in 1894 he
was elected a member of the Academy of
Medicine. He is the editor of the Aunales
de I'Institut Pasteur. Apart from his con-
tributions to chemistry, silkworm culture,
the phylloxera, etc., ha has done valuable
work on ferments and their relation to dis-
ease, digestion, milk, and microbiology.
The Feeding of Infants. The time when
a bottle-fed baby was a rare thing is within
the memory of all of the older physicians ;
but now it is the exception rather than the
rule for a mother to suckle her child. Many
a mother who really wants to nurse her baby,
but because of her small supply of milk is
prevented, might, by a little judicious advice
as to diet and proper habits, be rendered
perfectly competent. Instead of this, that
convenient bottle is adopted, which is thus
graphically described by Dr. Mary A. Wil-
lard : "' When the poor, pinched, blue, weaz-
ened little creatures were brought to me in
the dispensary in New York, where they used
to come by the dozen, I would call for their
nursing-bottles, take a whiff of their sour,
putrid contents, swarming with bacteria, pull
off the rubber nipple and the ivory guard,
rip up the long tube with my penknife, and
scrape ofP the green, poisonous matter, tyro-
toxicon, and spread it out on my palm before
the astonished mother." Combine with such
a state of affairs in the bottle some one of
the dry milk foods, or a diluted condensed
milk, and the babies' chances are pretty
slim. The dry milk powders, including malt-
ed milk, are, from their nature, deficient in
fats and contain a large excess of sugar,
which is harmful because of the readiness
with which it undergoes fermentation. As
for the condensed milks, during a recent ex-
amination of the milk supply of London,
seventeen brands were examined ; fourteen
of these were found to have been prepared
entirely from skimmed milk, and showed
an average of only 0-'72 per cent of fat.
Genuine full-cream brands of condensed milk
contain from ten to twelve per cent of fat.
Considering the far-reaching and deplorable
effects which reliance upon such foods must
lead to, it is of the utmost importance that
physicians and parents should understand
the dangers of prepared-milk feeding.
Examinations. From a recent address
delivered by Jonathan Hutchinson, and pub-
lished in the Lancet, we quote the follow-
ing very pertinent passages : " Examinations
should be made as little distasteful as possi-
ble. The candidate ought to feel throughout
his studies that in presenting himself to an
examiner he does that which is equivalent to
placing himself on a weighing machine, and
that the verdict recorded will be in exact re-
lation to his deserts. . . . The personal ele-
ment, that of the examiner, should be elimi-
nated as far as possible. To this end viva-
voce examinations should, as far as prac-
ticable, be avoided. I have heard a self-
confident examiner allege that he could tell
better what was in a man in five minutes'
conversation than by reading any number of
his written papers, and I did not doubt that
he thought so. This judgment of men, as
it were, by personal inspection is often most
fallacious, and should be permitted only with
the utmost circumspection. It by no means
follows that the disuse of the viva voce
would throw us back wholly on set verbal
questions. There remains the extensive field
of objective examination. . . . This kind of
examination it is which conduces most of all
to sound matter-of-fact objective teaching.
It is perhaps the most important of all modes,
