572
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and is one which in the future is destined to
receive more and more attention. We come
next to the consideration of papers and of
paper-setting. It is the fasliion to hold that
any one who knows his subject can examine
in it, but in truth it is not so, and the art of
examining is one which, like other arts, needs
to be learned. It is impossible to deny that
many examination papers are ill expressed,
and some wholly unsuitable. It is no legiti-
mate part of an examination to take the
candidate by surprise, or confound him with
the .unexpected. Nor should half of the time
allowed be taken up in the effort to under-
stand what the terms of the question are in-
tended to mean. . . . Modern education, in
its zeal to avoid the charge of being super-
ficial, incurs, as it seems to me, that of being
merely fragmentary. It aims at thorough-
ness, but is obliged at once to admit that it
can attain it only in certain subjects which,
compared with the sum of human knowledge,
are but few and small. . . . Excepting a
very few of us, we are all mere smatterers
as regards almost all that we think we know.
It is not possible to be otherwise, excepting
at the cost of being wholly ignorant in many
directions ; and as regards fitness for the af-
fairs of hfe, better by far a general acquaint-
ance with all that is around us, though it be
not very deep, than slices of profound knowl-
edge placed sandwichwise between thick lay-
ers of utter ignorance."
Hygiene of OysterSt Prof. Herdman and
Prof. Bryce have found, from experiments
on the effect upon oysters of various condi-
tions with especial reference to the typhoid
germ that beneficial results are derived
from aeration, and therefore that it is salu-
tary to lay the moUusks down where there is
a good change of water. Of foods given to
oysters, sugar caused them to lose weight
and die ; oatmeal and flour had like effects.
Stagnation was deleterious, causing the ac-
cumulation of excretory products, and encour-
aging the growth of micro-organisms and the
formation of scums on the surface of the
water ; yet the oysters were tolerant of sew-
age, and could, up to a certain point, render
water clear that was contaminated with it,
and they -could live a long time in water
rendered opaque by fecal matter. The fecal
matter from typhoid subjects was more in-
imical than that obtained from healthy ones.
The oysters were found very prone to infec-
tion by micro-organisms, but the typhoid
bacillus will not flourish in clean sea-water ;
and the experiments seem to show that this
organism decreases in numbers in passing
through the alimentary canal of the oyster.
It seems possible, therefore, that by methods
similar to those employed in the clearing
basins of the French ostreoculturists oj'Sters
previously contaminated with sewage can be
freed from pathogenic organisms or their
products without being spoiled for the mar-
ket.
Bibliography of Zoology. The Interna-
tional Bibliographical Bureau for Zoology,
the organization of which was begun about
three years ago, will be located, Mr. H. H.
Field announces, at Zurich, Switzerland. It
will publish a fortnightly bibliographical Bul-
letin, with an edition printed on thin paper
and on only one side of the sheet, so that it
may be cut up ; and a complete card cata-
logue of all zoological literature published
after 1895; besides which the Zoologische
Jahresbericht will be federated with the un-
dertaking, so as to afford an annual list of
titles, arranged alphabetically, by authors.
The bureau will be aided in various parts
of the world by national committees, corre-
spondents, and sub-bureaus.
Engineering as an Exact Science. So
far as it is based on mathematics, said Mr.
L. F. Vernon Harcourt in the British Asso-
ciation, engineering is an exact science, and
the strains due to given loads on a structure
can be accurately determined; but the
strength of the materials employed has to
be ascertained before any structure can be
properly designed. Accordingly, the resist-
ance of materials to tension, compression,
and flexure has to be tested and their limit
of elasticity and breaking weight to be de-
termined. Numberless experiments have
been made on the flow of water in open
channels, over weirs, through orifices, and
along pipes, and the influences of the nature
of the bed, the slope, depth, and size of the
channel have been investigated. Electrical
engineering is especially adapted for experi-
mental investigation, but every branch of
engineering science is more or less capable
