THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GOLD. 41
object is to reverse the current of events and return to the practice
of the past, from which the nations have one by one unfortunately
departed. The " bimetallic standard " was in force in the United
States fifty years since so it is claimed although the actual
standard of the country after 1834 was gold, and less silver was
then coined in a year than has been issued of late years in a month
or even in a week, because the gold constituting a dollar could
be bought slightly cheaper than the silver in a silver dollar, and
therefore, though the coinage of silver was nominally " free," it
had really ceased to be " basic money " long before the " crime of
1873 " had been thought of.* If, now, the evidence shows that
the existing standard of value, or " basic money," has lost instead
of gained in value since the days of the " bimetallic standard " of
glorious memory, then the complaints and theories of the free-
silver men are without any solid foundation ; and the existing
agitation is like all agitations destitute of justice, simply a hin-
drance to the establishment of firm confidence and prosperity,
and, in short, an unmitigated nuisance with which no compromise
should be made.
It is a singular fact that the method of showing that the gen-
eral level of prices has greatly fallen, and that therefore the gold
dollar has risen, is to take the statistics of prices in great centers
as a final basis. Wheat is cheaper in London in 1895 than it was
in 1845 much cheaper ; so is cotton, so is corn the three great
staples. Therefore, say our friends, gold has risen, and the debtor,
the farmer, and the producer are robbed ! This, with a little
bogy-talk about Shylocks, England, and Wall Street, is all there
is of their argument.
Now, if we ask what the Ohio farmer received fifty years
ago for his wheat and corn, we come upon the fact which
must be a disagreeable one for the cheap- money men that he
did not get as much then as he does to-day. No books of sta-
tistics take any account of the prices obtained by the Ohio
farmer in 1845; and our statistical friends, overlooking (or "re-
membering to forget ") the difference in transportation and
other conditions then and now, conveniently assume that because
wheat was higher in London in 1845 than now, the Ohio farmer
must have been rolling in wealth. In the forties, the Ohio farmer
seldom got twenty cents a bushel for his corn, and frequently
burned it up ; and men still living can remember how, in those
* This fact, which must be well known to men like Senators Teller, Jones, and
Stewart, renders it difficult to acquit the leading advocates of free coinage of deliberate
hypocrisy, when they so loudly declaim about " the crime of 18'73 " (which Senator
Stewart himself voted to enact), and the " dollar of our daddies," which was practically
non-existent.
