FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
573
of being advanced in the same way ; and
when it is borne in mind that the force of
waves, the ebb and flow of tides in rivers,
the influence of training works in estuaries,
and the motion of ships at sea have been
subjected to experimental research, it ap-
pears impossible to assign a limit to the
range of experiments as a means of extend-
ing engineering knowledge. The correct
calculations of strains, the exact strength of
materials, and a strict appreciation of the
physical laws afi"ecting designs are of the
utmost importance, and the failure of many
bridges might be explained by a neglect of
these considerations. Occasionally failui-es
of works might be attributed to exceptional
causes or peculiarly unfavorable conditions,
but in most cases they are the result of er-
rors or deficiencies in design which might
have been avoided by a more correct appre-
ciation of the physical conditions involved.
Eleetrical Effects of Spray. A corre-
spondent, writing to us concerning the effect
of various atmospheric conditions on health
and bodily vigor, cites his own experience in
a fire brigade as having led him to believe
that deficiency of ozone and other unfavor-
able conditions and the effect of atmospheric
impurities may be alleviated by inhalation
through a spray of cold water. A method
of ventilation of railroad cars which was
very comfortable to passengers riding in
cars so treated, but has been disused, de-
pended upon the application of this princi-
ple. Its value is further confirmed by what
Prince Kropotkin has said in one of his re-
cent articles on current science concerning
the theory of the development of electricity
by spattering water. A few years ago Herr
Lenard undertook a series of observations in
Switzerland on the electrical effect of water-
falls. It appeared that even small cataracts,
only a few feet high, send into the air con-
siderable charges of electricity, provided
they bring down a large amount of rapidly
dashing water. The smallest jets of water
that drip on the rock sides, and even roar-
ing streamlets, have the same effect. He
suggested that the chief cause of electrifica-
tion is the tearing asunder of the drops of
water as they fall on the wet surfaces at the
bottom of the waterfall. The experiments
on which these views are founded accord
with the demonstration by Lord Kelvin and
Messrs. Maclean and Goto that air, even ab-
solutely dust free, can be electrified by a jet
of water. This source of electrification is
further shown to be by no means insignifi-
cant, and the amount of electricity sent into
the air in this way is immense. The impor-
tance of these facts in the economy of Na-
ture, says Prince Kropotkin, is self-evident.
" The supply of electricity in the air is con-
tinually renewed. The waterfalls in the val-
leys, the splashing of the waves on the shores
of lakes and rivers, and the splash of drops
of rain on the ground send masses of nega-
tive electricity into the air ; even the watering
of our streets and of our plants in the or-
chards has the same effect on a limited
scale. On the other side, the waves of the
sea, as they break against the rocks and fall
back in millions of di-oplets upon the beach,
supply the air with masses of positive elec-
tricity the amount of which rapidly increases
after each storm. And when we stand on a
sea beach we not only inhale pure ozonified
or iodized air ; we are, so to say, surrounded
by an electrified atmosphere, which, as al-
ready remarked by Humboldt and often con-
firmed since, must have a stimulating eilect
upon our nei'vous activity as well as upon
the circulation of sap in plants."
The Sciences Auxiliary to Engineering.
Among the branches of science necessary
for the engineer, Mr. L. F. Vernon Har-
court, in his address at the British Associa-
tion meeting, named mathematics and phys-
ics as of the highest importance, and as
those upon which the profession mainly de-
pends. Other sciences of considerable
though comparatively minor importance are
those of chemistry, meteorology, and geol-
ogy. All branches of applied mathematics
have to be used by engineers, or, as in the
case of several general principles and tidal
calculations, by mathematicians, for their
benefit; but graphic statics will probably
gradually supersede analytical methods for
the calculation of stresses, as more rapid
and less liable to errors, which are also
more easily detected in graphic diagrams
Pure mathematics, in its higher branches,
appears to have a less direct connection with
engineering; but applied mathematics is so
largely dependent upon pure mathematics
