574
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that this, including the calculus and differ-
ential equations, can not be safely neglected
by the engineer though some of the more
abstruse portions of the subject might be
dispensed with. Physics is of great impor-
tance, for there are few problems in engi-
neering in which no part is borne by phys-
ical considerations. The surveyor avails him-
self of physics when heights are measured
by the barometer, or by the temperature at
which water boils. Evaporation, condensa-
tion, and latent heat bear upon the efficiency
of steam engines, and the expansive force
of gases, the retention of the heat devel-
oped, and the diminution of friction on the
economical working of heat engines. Con-
siderations of temperature limit the height
to which railways can be carried without
danger of blocking by snow, and the depth
at which tunnels can be driven. Compressed
air is largely used by engineers. Electric
engineering, too, is intimately connected with
physics. Chemistry is of importance in the
manufacture of iron, steel, and other metals,
and the formation of alloys, and in its relation
to explosives. A knowledge of geology is
indispensable in directing a search for coal,
iron ore, and the metals, and in the execu-
tion of all works going below the surface.
Meteorology is useful to the engineer in that
it enables him to know the force of the wind
and the direction, duration, and periods of
occurrence of severe gales very important
matters in the construction of bridges and
harbor works,
A Valley of White Limestone. A re-
markable formation is described by Mr.
Theodore Bent as observed by him while ex-
ploring the frankincense country of Arabia,
near the presumed site of the Abyssapolis
of Ptolemy. The valley leading down to the
Red Sea has been filled in the course of
ages by a calcareous deposit, which is col-
lected on either side of an isolated hill in
the middle of the hollow, about one thousand
feet in height. This deposit has taken the
form of a straight and precipitous wall five
hundred and fifty feet high and three quar-
ters of a mile long on the eastern side of the
bill, and about a quarter of a mile long and
three hundred feet high on the western side.
Over these walls feathery waterfalls pre-
cipitate themselves, adding perpetually to
the chalky accretions of which the cliffs are
constructed. The general appearance of the
walls is white and whitish- gray, with long,
white stalactites hanging down in tumbled
confusion. They ai-e streaked here and
there, where the water perpetually falls,
with patches of green. Beneath plateaus
twenty feet high enormous ricinuses, da-
turas, and other plants flourish ; and the
Bedouins have utilized the stream before it
has lost itself in the rocky channel to make
small gardens. The rocky channel below is
also very curious, presenting a flat surface
about fifty yards across of white calcareous
rocks, while just below the wall where the
water comes down is an enormous amount
of white calcareous deposit, soft and spongy
to walk upon. Mr. Bent pronounces this
one of the most stupendous natural phe-
nomena he has ever seen, characterizes the
valley as " a stupendous abyss," and com-
pares the whole with the pink and white ter-
races of New Zealand and the calcareous
deposits of Yellowstone Park.
Geology and Paleontology at Union
University. The department of Geology
and Paleontology of Union University offers
the ordinary course of the college and spe-
cial courses for such students as are inter-
ested in the science from a philosophical or
professional point of view. The courses in-
clude mineralogy and lithology, general geol-
ogy (with excursions), economic geology, in
which are considered in the second half the
occurrence and distribution of the mineral
deposits and building stones of the United
States ; systematic and structural geology
and paleontology, with especial considera-
tion of the formations occurring in New
York and adjacent States and their char-
acteristic fossils ; field and laboratory study
of the geological formations readily acces-
sible from Schenectady ; the methods of
preparing geological maps and reports ; and
advanced field work and independent re-
search, in which the student selects some
region for original work to which he can de-
vote considerable time, and conducts his in-
vestigation in a professional manner. He is
expected in this to demonstrate his ability
to conduct original work, and to prepare a
report containing a summary of the previous
knowledge of the geology of the region, with
