FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
575
a detailed account of his investigations the
whole to constitute a contribution to knowl-
edge. In studying paleontology the student
receives careful training in systematic clas-
sification. Candidates for honors must pre-
pare theses of sufficient merit to warrant the
publication of at least an abstract in some
scientific journal. As aids, students have
access to the library and museum of Union
College, and to the State Library and Mu-
seum at Albany.
Antiquity of the QnichnaSt Dr. George
A. Dorsey expresses his belief, in a paper on
The Character and Antiquity of Peruvian
Civilization, that the Quichuas came into Peru
from the north, and that the time of their
arrival must have been a great while ago,
" perhaps several thous^ind years. The fact
that they had thoroughly domesticated the
llama as well as other smaller animals is in
itself proof of great antiquity. The same
holds true in regard to the high state of
cultivation in which we find the cotton plant,
several varieties of maize, and other cereals
and food products. In the province of
Huarochiri, Avila states that the origin of
the great acequias and irrigating canals was
only accounted for by a myth, their con-
struction dating back to so remote a period
that they were uo longer ascribed to human
agency."
MINOR PARAGEAPHS.
Through the co-operation of some private
persons interested in the preservation of spe-
cies and the Linnsean and other societies of
New York, protection has been afforded to
the terns on Great Gull Island, Long Island
Sound. A sum of money was contributed to
employ a gamekeeper, and the lighthouse
keeper on Little Gull Island was authorized
to act in that capacity. From three to four
thousand birds were found on the island in
1886. They had been since diminishing
year by year in numbers under the attacks
of sportsmen and egg-hunters, till attention
was called to the fact and a watch was
placed over them. Under the care of the
gamekeeper the numbers of the colony in-
creased at least one half during 1894, and
terns are now seen where they had not been
observed for many years before.
Were Indians of the Sioux stock ever set-
tled in the East ? is asked by James Mooney,
who finds evidences in languages that such
tribes once lived in a particular territory in
Virginia and the Carolinas. Traditions are
cited in his paper on the subject, which are
said to exist among some of the Sioux tribes,
of a former residence on the Ohio, and of a
migration prompted by the density of the
population, which had become too numerous
for the hunting grounds. The emigration was
probably prehistoric, as the Sioux tribes were
established in the West as early as three
hundred and fifty years ago, and was caused,
Mr. Mooney thinks, not by the disappearance
of game for the buffalo did not become
extinct in the Ohio Valley till late in the last
century but by the pressure of hostile tribes
from the north and south Algonkins and
Muskogees.
The encouraging fact is brought out in
the reports of examinations published by the
Regents of the University of the State of
New York that a rapid and healthy increase
is going on in the standard of proficiency of
the candidates in all the grades. Even
more significant than this is the evidence
that desultory courses of study are giving
way to longer and reasonably balanced
courses. A very beneficent influence is ex-
erted it is alleged by the new laws and regu-
lations requiring candidates for admission to
practice in law, medicine, and dentistry to
submit evidence of a general preliminary
education equivalent to a full high-school
course.
From certain manuscripts left by Dalton,
to which attention is called by Sir Henry
Roscoe and Dr. A. Harden, it is made clear
that his application of the atomic theory to
chemistry was not the result of his own
analysis of certain compounds of carbon, as
has hitherto been supposed, but that his
mind was saturated with Newton's notions on
atoms, and he worked out the theory from
physical conditions as to the constitution of
gases. Somewhat later he quoted numerical
results, not of his own, but of other chem-
ists' analyses, in support of the theory, and
seems to have worked out the law of chem-
ical combination in multiple proportions as
