576
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the only conceivable mode of combination
between atoms.
The results of the experiments of 1894
at the New York Agricultural Experiment
Station on spraying indicate that the dilute
Bordeaux mixture when thoroughly applied
is a practical preventive of pear scab. The
treatment has been equally effectual in pre-
venting apple scab and codlin moth. Some
roughness, regarded as injury, appeared on
the sprayed fruit, but it has not been deter-
mined whether this was caused by the Bor-
deaux mixture, by substances mixed with
it, by the weather, or by some other cause.
Some of the trees sprayed in 1893 overbore,
and consequently did not produce as full
crops in 1894 ; the only inference deducible
from which is that spraying will not prevent
the reaction that follows an excessive crop.
NOTES.
Meerschaum is extracted in much the
same way as coal. Near Eski-Shehir, an im-
portant station on the Anatolian Railway,
where rich deposits of meerschaum ai'e
found, pits from twenty-five to one hundred
and twenty feet deep are dug, and as soon as
the vein is struck horizontal galleries, some-
times of considerable length, are made. The
stone as extracted is called ham-tash (rough
block), and is soft enough to be easily cut
with a knife. It is white, with a yellowish
tint, and is covered with a red, clayey soil.
The manipulation required before it is ready
for export is long and costly.
The average annual production of wine
in Spain, including the Balearic Isles and the
Canaries, is estimated at 770,000,000 gallons.
The principal wiue-growing districts are in
Valencia, Catalonia, Old Castile, Aragon,
Riojana, Navarre, Leon, Andalusia, Estra-
madura, and the largest production is fur-
nished by the provinces of Alicante and Va-
lencia-Catalonia. Andalusia produces the
famous sherry and Malaga wines which com-
pete very favorably in the foreign markets
with the Italian products of Marsala and
Syracuse. The amount of sherry alone
which is shipped from Spain each year rep-
resents a value of over $12,000,000.
Animals in Mediaeval Architecture, pro-
fusely illustrated, and The Criminal Prosecu-
tion of Animals in the Middle Ages, also illus-
trated, are the titles of two interesting vol-
umes by Prof. E. P. Evans soon to be pub-
lished by Henry Holt & Co., New York, and
William Heinemann, London.
The following sentence from one of
Pasteur's speeches seems worthy of wide-
spread circulation : " I hold the invincible
belief that science and peace will be victori-
ous over ignorance and war ; that the nations
will agree not to destroy, but to build up ;
and that the future will belong to those who
shall have done most for suffering human-
ity."
The part which ants play in the menage
of an orchid seems to be essential to its
healthy growth. Mr. J. H. Hart, dealing with
this question in a recent bulletin of the
Royal Botanic Gardens, says that while there
are several theories as to the part which the
ants play, probably the correct one is that
they supply the roots of the orchid with the
mycelium of a fungus, which fungus enables
them to take up food which would be other-
wise unattainable.
The third International Congress of Psy-
chology will meet in Munich next Augustj
The opening will take place in the great hal_
of the university on the morning of the 4th_
Prof. Stumpf is the president of the congress
Information may be obtained from the general
secretary, Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, or
from Prof. Sully, East Heath Road, Hamp-
stead, London, England.
It is stated that a biography of Prof.
Huxley is being prepared by his son, Mr.
Leonard Huxley, who will be greatly obliged
if those who possess letters or other docu-
ments of interest will forward them to him
at Charterhouse, Godalming. They will be
carefully returned after being copied.
Dr. Robert Brown, who died in
Streatham, England, October 26, 1895, in his
fifty-fourth year, was a man of much versa-
tility in science. He studied at the Universi-
ties of Edinburgh, Leydcn, Copenhagen, and
Rostock. Visiting Spitzbergen, Greenland,
and Baffin Bay in 1861, he made some
notable discoveries. During the next five
years he traveled through some of the un-
explored districts of America, visiting the
West Indies, Venezuela, Alaska, Bering Sea,
and places between, and the Pacific islands.
He was botanist to the British Columbia ex-
pedition and commander of the Vancouver
Island expedition. In these enterprises he
introduced several new plants into Europe.
He charted the interior of Vancouver Island,
then unknown. With Mr. Whymper he
made the first attempt of Englishmen in
1867 to penetrate the inland ice of Green-
land. He afterward traveled extensively
through the Barbary states ; then settled
down in Scotland, where he lectured to vari-
ous institutions on geology, botany, and zo-
ology ; and later engaged in newspaper work
in England. His name has been given to
several new species of plants and animals,
and to at least five geographical points in
Vancouver Island, Spitzbergen, and Nova
Zembla. He was the author of several sci-
entific and other books, and an honorary or
ordinary member of many learned societies.
