578 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
erty." Poll taxes were exacted by tlie Athenian state, but as such
taxes were considered ignominious and as implying subjugation,
they were only assessed upon slaves or subjugated foreigners ; and
failure to pay was regarded in the light of a capital offense.
The income of Athens from fines appears to have been con-
siderable, and to have constituted a singular and permanent
feature of the fiscal policy of the state. Its method of assessment
may be best illustrated by examples. Thus, if duly authorized
ofiicials did not hold certain assemblages, according to rule, or
properly conduct the appointed business, they had each to pay
a thousand drachmas ($200). If an orator conducted himself
indecorously in a public assembly, he could be fined fifty drach-
mas (ten dollars) for each offense, which might be raised to a
higher sum at the pleasure of the people. A woman conduct-
ing herself improperly in the streets paid a similar penalty. If a
woman went to Eleusis in a carriage, she subjected herself to a
fine of a talent ($1,180). In the case of wealthy or notable per-
sons, fines for omissions or commissions in respect to conduct
were made much greater, and so more productive of revenue;
and there were very few notable or wealthy citizens of Athens
who under the rule of demagogues, and through specious accusa-
tions of offenses against the state or the gods, escaped the pay-
ment of heavy fines ; the experiences of Miltiades, Themistocles,
Aristides, Demosthenes, Pericles, Cleon, and Timotheus being cases
in point.* Every person who failed to pay a fine owing to the
state was reckoned as a public debtor, and was subject to im-
prisonment and a practical denial of citizenship ; Miltiades, the
victor at Marathon, for example, having been cast into prison
(where he afterward died) through an inability to pay a fine
assessed against him of fifty talents, f
* It was probably the coBtemplation of this state of things that led her great philosopher
Aristotle to the conclusion, expressed in his essay on Politics, that " the rule of an irrespon-
sible majority can be just as despotic as that of a single tyrant." He defines this extreme
democracy as that " in which the majority, and not the law, is supreme " in other words,
" when decrees of the people, and not the law, govern." By " law " is meant a fixed code of
statutes, which can not be changed or repealed by the ordinary legislative power. The
latter can pass only decrees in conformity to the fixed code, which thus corresponds to our
written constitutions. Such absolute power, he says, makes the people a monarch, and
finally a despot refusing to be subject to law ; and " such a democracy is analogous to
tyranny." Both have the same character, for " both exercise a slaveholder's rule over the
better citizens." In one we have decrees, in the other edicts ; in one demagogues are in
authority, in the other flatterers. When a dispute arises, the cry always is, " The people
must settle it," and everything is determined by the momentary will of the supreme multi-
tude. From this state of things the wisdom of our fathers has saved us, and the Supreme
Court of the United States, as a rule, decides questions of constitutional law with far more
wisdom and dignity than its predecessor, the popular court of Athens.
\ Boeckh's Public Economy of Athens.
