PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 579
Another curious feature of the fiscal policy of Athens was an
indirect augmentation of the public revenues, by diminishing the
public expenditures by an institution which was essentially one
of differential exaction (miscalled taxation), and was known as
" liturgies." They consisted in the conferring upon ambitious and
wealthy citizens certain honorary public offices to which noth-
ing of salary or compensation was attached, but which entailed
large expenditures for the entertainment of the people or defense
of the country. The acceptance of these offices was compulsory ;
parsimony in expenditure on the part of the holder exposed him
to public censure ; and the institution undoubtedly found favor
with the masses as a method of dividing the property or con-
suming the incomes of the wealthy. The system of liturgies was
not, however, peculiar or restricted to the Athenian state. It
existed in the Greek cities of Asia Minor, and also to a certain
extent in Rome, where the persons accepting the office of sedile,
whose business it was to take care of public edifices and superin-
tend public festivals, were expected to appropriate large sums
from their private resources for the convenience and amusement
of the people. The office of sedile in Rome, which was one of
great honor, was thus only made accessible to the very wealthy.
But as the office was, however, in the direct line of preferment to
some lucrative office in the provinces, the expenditures of its occu-
pant were probably regarded in the light of an investment, from
which more than complete remuneration was to be expected in
the future. The principle involved in the liturgies would also
seem to find recognition and exemplification in modern times, and
under a different civilization, but in accordance with the same hu-
man nature ; as, for example, in Great Britain, which by requiring
members of Parliament to serve gratuitously, virtually restricts
membership in that body to wealthy citizens ; and also in the
United States, which, by paying her judges and most of her other
great officers of state inconsiderable and inadequate salaries, prac-
tically reduces the cost of her Government, and virtually makes
merchandise of her honors by entailing a part of the proper ex-
penses of such offices upon every first-class incumbent of them.*
The comparatively small expenditures of the Athenian state
should also to be considered in connection with their revenue re-
quirements. Thus, Mr. Grote estimates the annual expenditure
of Athens, in the time of Pericles, at one thousand talents^ or
* It will not probably be disputed that the talent and experience which ought to be pre-
requisite to the holding and proper discharge of the duties of many of the important oflSces
of the Government of the United States judges, cabinet ministers, foreign ministers,
consuls, etc. will command in private life a much higher compensation or salary than is
paid by the state.
