58o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
81,180,000; and, according to Mr. Boeckh, the revenues of the
city never exceeded two thousand talents, or $2,360,000. The
annual tax paid on the property of Demosthenes by his guardi-
ans amounted to only one fifth of one per cent of its valuation ;
and as, before the Peloponnesian war, the receipts from the
silver mines owned by the state were so abundant that the sur-
plus revenue was divided among the citizens of Athens, it is evi-
dent that for a time there was no necessity for taxation.
Taxation in Rome. Up to the time of Servius Tullius taxa-
tion in Rome consisted of a capitation assessment, arbitrarily
fixed, without regard to the means of the individual.* After the
termination of the last Punic war, and down to nearly the epoch
of the Empire a period of at least one hundred and twenty-five
years the people of Rome were exempt from all direct taxation.
This was due to the circumstance that Rome had accumulated
great wealth, and was in receipt of an annual revenue from her
conquered provinces fully adequate to defray all the expenses of
the government, including the military establishment of the state.
A large revenue for a considerable period was also derived from
the imperial silver mines in Spain. Cicero, who lived before the
empire, in one of his epistles to Atticus, laments the possibility
of a resort to taxation by the state at some time in the future as
something ominous of evil.
One of the first acts, however, of Augustus, after assuming the
reins of government, was the gradual institution of an extensive
system of taxation. He organized a land tax for the whole
empire ; and followed it up with what Gibbon terms " an artful
assessment " on the real and personal property of the Roman
citizens, who, as before shown, had been long exempted from any
contributions for the support of the state. A tax of five per cent,
or one twentieth, was also imposed on all legacies and successions,
which did not apply to objects inherited of less than a specified
value (" probably," says Gibbon, " of fifty or a hundred pieces of
gold ") ; nor was it exacted from the nearest of kin on the father's
side, t
This tax which appears to have been most productive, was one
of the most permanent taxes of the empire, and its amount was
increased by the successors of Augustus.
Gibbon seems to have been in doubt as to the motive which
* Ortolan, History of Roman Jurisprudence, English edition, p., 257.
f " Such a tax was most happily suited to the situation of the Romans, who could frame
their arbitrary wills according to the dictates of reason or caprice, without any restraint
from the modem fetters of entails and settlements. From various causes, the partiality of
parental affection also often lost its influence over the dissolute nobles of the empire ; and
if the father bequeathed to his son a fourth part of his estate, he removed all grounds of
legal complaint." {Gibbon, vol. i, p. 192.)
