PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 581
prompted Augustus to incorporate these new features of taxation
in the Roman governmental policy, and suggests a desire to re-
lieve tlie provinces from their burden of tribute, or to effect the
impoverishment of the senate or the " equestrian " (knights)
order. A more modern and probably a more correct view is, that
Augustus recognized that, as Rome possessed all the known
world that she considered worth possessing, the profitable results
of further conquests, and the drain of accumulated wealth from
subjugated nations, had practically come to an end ; that her
army henceforth existed mainly for maintaining the integrity of
the empire, or for defense ; and that for its support, in default
of opportunities to plunder, an extensive and rigorous system of
taxation had become necessary.
Under the system of taxation established by Augustus and ex-
tended by his successors, most of the taxes known to modern
times were anticipated by the Romans. Apart from the taxes on
land, they had export and import taxes ; tolls for passage over
bridges; a tax upon salt; a tax in kind upon corn (wheat),
barley, wine, oil, meat, and wood ; a tax upon the value of manu-
mitted slaves ; on sales ; and a capitation or poll tax. Of other
notable and peculiar Roman taxes was one on the wages of pros-
titutes ; and apart from his wars with the Jews and the building
of the Colosseum, the Roman Emperor Vespasian is best known
in history as the originator of a tax on urinals.
Excepting possibly the land tax, there does not appear to have
been any general and uniform system of taxation for the whole
empire. The taxes on imports and exports were not uniform,
and there were separate customs districts, each with a tariff of its
own, and some with special immunities. Under the reign of
Augustus and his successors, duties varying from an eighth to
the fortieth part of the value of the commodity were imposed at
Rome on every kind of merchandise, " which through a thousand
channels flowed to the great center of opulence and luxury ; and
in whatsoever manner the law was expressed, it was the Roman
purchaser and not the provincial merchant that paid the tax." *
A general tax (characterized by Gibbon as an excise), and
seldom exceeding one per cent was also exacted at Rome on
whatever " was sold in the market place, or by public auction,
from the most considerable purchase of land and houses to those
minute objects which can only derive a value from their infinite
multitude and daily consumption." As exports were subject to
Roman taxation as well as imports, and as the average rates im-
posed in both cases were probably low, these forms of taxation
appear to have been in the nature of a payment for the privilege
* Gibbon, vol. i, p. 190, who in turn cites Tacitus, Annals, vol. xiii, p. 31, as authority.
