PRINCIPLES OF TAXATION. 587
very small so mucli so that it has been estimated that the labor of
several individuals was required to supply even the necessary
food of one inactive person. But as the people became exhausted,
the demands of the government, contingent on the maintenance
of an extravagant court and a large standing army of soldiers and
officials, became greater, the severity in the methods of exaction
increased, and in no two provinces was the authority of the gov-
ernment (sovereign) exercised in the same manner.* With ma-
lignant ingenuity, and with a view of perfecting the control of
the state over the individual, and doubtless more especially for
facilitating the operation of the officials charged with the duty of
collecting taxes, every man's position was fixed for him by the
conditions of his birth. The son of a cultivator of the soil was
chained, as it were, to the lands tilled by his father. The work-
men in all other departments of industry were bound to their po-
sition for life, and when they died their places were taken by their
sons. " If any one of them deserted his work, he was sought out,
even to the remotest provinces, and ruthlessly dragged back to
his post." t If he failed to produce a prescribed result, the state
intervened and forced its accomplishment. In making assess-
ments for taxation, visible tangible property was enrolled with
great minuteness by officers who corresponded to our modern as-
sessors. The lands were measured by surveyors ; their nature
whether arable or pasture, vineyards or woods was distinctly
reported ; and an estimate was made of their value from their
average produce for five years. Every new purchaser of land
contracted all the obligations of former proprietors. Slaves and
cattle were counted separately, and carefully reported for assess-
ment ; and by the Theodosian Code, which for the time was an
almost universal law, death and confiscation of estate was the
punishment to which every farming proprietor was liable who
should attempt to evade taxation.
In respect to the assessment and collection of taxes on personal
property, the accounts that have come down to us are most inter-
esting, and ought to be full of instruction to legislators of the
present day who believe in patterning tax administration after
old and vicious experiences, so far as the changed conditions and
ideas of civilization in the nineteenth century will admit. The
proprietor of such property was, in the first instance, questioned
under oath ; and every attempt to prevaricate or elude the inten-
* Alfred Rambaud. L'Empire Grec au Dixieme Siecle.
f By a law of the Emperor Theodosius, in 438 a. d., it was provided that the fabricen-
ses (meaning thereby the workmen engaged in the fabrication of arms) "shall be so
closely bound to their appropriate duties that, worn out at last by their toil, they shall die
in the profession to which they were born both they and their children after them." {Co-
dex Tlieod., ii, 9, 4.)
