588 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY. '
tions of the legislator was punishable as a capital crime, and was
held to include the double guilt of treason and sacrilege. If the
results of personal interrogation under oath were not satisfactory
to the tax officials, they were empowered to administer torture ;
and when personal stoicism or absolute incapacity failed to effect
the desired results, resort was had to other, most abhorrent, and
unnatural methods for procuring the sum at which their property
was assessed "the faithful slave being tortured for evidence
against his master, the wife to depose against her husband, and
the son against his sire. Neither age nor sickness exempted from
liability and personal inquisition. In taking ages, they added to
the years of children and subtracted from those of the elderly.
When the number of cattle fell off and the people died, the sur-
vivors were obliged to pay the assessments on the dead." Zosi-
mus, a historian who wrote in the early part of the fifth century,
says that the approach of the fatal period when the general tax
upon industry was to be collected " was announced by the tears
and terrors of the citizens."
That the result, so far as the execution of the law was con-
cerned, was a success, can not be doubted; nor that by the
methods employed large amounts of revenue were collected that
otherwise could not have been obtained. But what were the final
results ? First, a demonstration of an economic truth, which in
subsequent years has over and over again been repeated, that
the productiveness of a tax is not its first consideration ; and
that a blight contingent on the method of assessing and collecting
a tax may ruin a harvest which it can not gather. Under the state
of things, as described, that prevailed under the latter days of the
Roman Empire, the agriculture of its provinces was gradually
ruined. Long before the footsteps of the barbarians had been
seen in Italy, a large part of what had been its most fertile por-
tion and the seat of " the delicious retirement of the citizens of
Rome," had become uncultivated and a desert. " The desire and
possibility of accumulation languished, and men produced only
what would suffice for their immediate needs ; for the govern-
ment laid in wait for all savings. Capital vanished, the souls of
men were palsied ; population fled from what was called civiliza-
tion, and sought concealment and relief in barbarism and with
barbarians. Men cried for social death, and invited the coming
of savages ; and in the form of Goths and Vandals, Huns and
Herulii, Franks and Lombards, they came, and the empire of
Rome and its degraded civilization went down in almost universal
turmoil, bloodshed, robbery, and woe." There is also good reason
for believing that the Turks were greatly indebted for their suc-
cess in overthrowing the subsequent Byzantine or Greek Empire
to their simple methods and j)olicy in respect to taxation; and
