THE FAILURE OF SCIENTIFIC MATERIALISM. 589
that the subjects of the empire were glad to change their
masters, because instead of multiplied, intricate, and vexatious
taxes, the legacy of old Rome, they found themselves subject
to a simple tribute, easily collected and easily paid.*
^
THE FAILURE OF SCIENTIFIC MATERIALISM, f
By WILHELM OSTWALD,
professor of chemistry in the university of lkip9ic.
THE complaint has gone up in all ages that so little agreement
prevails respecting the most important and most funda-
mental questions of humanity. Only within our own days has the
cry with respect to one of the greatest of these questions been
silenced ; and although many contradictions are still current, it
may yet be said that rarely at any time has a so relatively great
unanimity existed concerning the theory of the world of outward
phenomena as prevails just now in our scientific century. From
the mathematician to the practicing physician, every scientifically
thinking man, in answer to the question how he supposes the
world is intrinsically constituted, would sum up his view, by say-
ing that the universe is composed of atoms in motion, and that
these atoms and the forces operating between them are the ulti-
mate realities of which individual phenomena consist. The
phrase can be heard and read in hundredfold repetitions, that no
other explanation of the physical world can be found than one
that rests upon the " mechanics of atoms " ; matter and motion
seem to be the ultimate concepts to which the diversity of natural
phenomena must be referred. This conception may be called
scientific materialism.
I purpose to express my conviction that this so generally ac-
cepted conception is untenable ; that this mechanical view of the
world does not answer the purpose for which it has been formed,
and that it is contradictory of indubitable and generally known
* The most available source of information on this subject is the historian Gibbon (De-
cline and Fall of the Roman Empire, edition with notes by Milman, Guizot, and Smith ;
New York, Harper's), who in turn specially cites as the authority for his statements
the two collections of ancient laws designated by the names of the two Byzantine Em-
perors under whom they were made, as the Codex Theodosianus and Codex Justinianus,
and the writings of Zosimus, a Greek historian, who lived in the early part of the fifth
century a. d., and whose history of the Roman Empire is still extant. For an exceedingly
graphic account of Roman experiences in attempting to tax personal property (from which
quotations have here been made) see Roman Imperialism, by J. R. Seeley, London, 1870.
f An address delivered before the third general session of the meeting of the Society of
German Naturalists and Physicians, at Lubeck, on September 20, 1895.
