590 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and recognized truths. There can be no doubt of the conclusion
to be drawn from this proposition : this scientifically untenable
conception must be given up, and replaced, if possible, by another
and better one. I believe that I can answer the question that
would naturally be asked here, whether another better view ex-
ists, in the affirmative. What I have to say on the subject will
therefore be legitimately divided into two parts the destructive
and the constructive. It is easier in this case, as in others, to
destroy than to build up, and the insufficiency of the usual
mechanical view will be easier to demonstrate than the sufficiency
of the new one, which I shall call the energistic view. But if I
declare at once that this new theory has already had opportunity
to show its quality in the field of experimental science, so favor-
able to calm examination and impartial testing, it will then be
able, even if it can not secure conviction of its correctness, to
demand recognition of its claim to consideration.
It may not be superfluous for me to announce in the beginning
that I contemplate an exclusively scientific discussion. I put
away absolutely and unconditionally all conclusions which might
be drawn from the result for other, ethical and religious, pur-
poses. I do this, not because I undervalue the importance of such
considerations, but because my result has been obtained independ-
ently of them, purely on the ground of exact science. Even for
the tilling of this ground the word holds good that he who puts
hand to the plow and looks back is not made for the kingdom.
The naturalist is pledged to declare what he has found, whomso-
ever it may hurt or help, and we may surely trust that earnest
seeking, though it may lead us astray for a little while, will never
do it permanently. I do not forget that my attempt places me in
contradiction with the opinions of men who have achieved much
in science, and to whom we all look up in admiration. I hope
you will not impute conceit to me because I differ from them on
so important a subject. It is not conceit when the sailor whose
post is in the " crow's nest " causes the course of the great ship
on which he is only a servant to be turned by the cry of " Break-
ers ahead!" It is his duty to tell what he sees, and he would
fail in this duty if he neglected to do so. In the same sense I
have a duty to discharge. Yet none of you is obliged to change
his scientific course merely on my call of " Breakers ahead ! "
Each of you may test whether a reality stands before my eyes, or
I am deceived by a vision. But since I believe that the special
kind of scientific work which is my calling permits me for the
moment to discern certain phenomena more clearly than they
appear from other points of view, I should consider it wrong if
I failed for reasons outside of it to speak of what I have seen.
In order to set ourselves right in the infinity of the world of
