THE FAILURE OF SCIENTIFIC MATERIALISM. 591
phenomena, we pursue always and everywhere the same scientific
method. We put like by the side of like, and seek what is com-
mon in diversity. In this way is the gradual mastery of the infin-
ity of our phenomenal world achieved, and more effective means
for compassing the purpose arise in successive development.
From bare comparison we pass to system, from this to laws of
Nature, and the most comprehensive form of these is compressed
into the general principle. We perceive that the phenomena of
the actual world, unlimited as is their diversity, still represent
only quite definite and well-marked instances of formally conceiv-
able possibilities. The significance of the laws of Nature consists
in the determination of the real cases out of the possible, and the
form to which they may all be traced back is the ascertaining of
an invariant, a something which remains unalterable, even when
all other criterions within the possible bounds defined by the law
change. Thus we see that the historical development of scientific
views is always associated with the discover}^ and elaboration of
such invariants ; in them are revealed the milestones of the high-
way of knowledge which mankind has trodden.
One such invariant of universal bearing is found in the idea
of mass. This not only gives the constants of astronomical laws,
but is not less invariably illustrated in the most incisive changes
to which we can subject the objects of the outer world chemical
processes. For that reason this idea, as being highly adapted to
the position, has been made the center of scientific legitimacy.
It was, however, in itself too poor in substance to serve for the
representation of the manifold phenomena, and had to be corre-
spondingly extended. This was done by associating with that
simple mechanical idea the series of properties, in their propor-
tion, which are experimentally connected with the property of
mass. Thus originated the idea of matter, in which was grouped
all that was sensibly connected with mass, and continued with it,
such as weight, volume, chemical properties, etc., and the physical
law of the conservation of mass passed into the metaphysical axiom
of the conservation of matter.
It is important to understand that with this extension a multi-
tude of hypothetical elements were introduced into a conception
that was in the beginning wholly free from hypotheses. Chem-
ical processes, in particular, must be interpreted in the light of
this view against the seeming, not as implying a disappearance
of the matter affected by the change and its replacement by new
matter with new properties. The theory rather became accepted
that even when all the sensible properties of, for example, iron
and oxygen disappear in iron oxide, iron and oxygen are never-
theless present in the resultant substance, and have only taken on
other properties. We have now become so accustomed to this view
