592 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tliat it is very hard for us to perceive the strangeness, yes, the
absurdity of it. When we reflect that all we know of any par-
ticular substance is of its properties, we see that the thought
that it is still present, but has no longer any of its properties,
is not far removed from pure nonsense. In fact, this purely
formal conception only serves to help us harmonize the general
facts of chemical processes, particularly the stoichiometrical laws
of mass, with the arbitrary conception of a matter unchangeable
in itself.
But even with this extended conception of matter and the ne-
cessary corollaries besides, we can not comprehend the mass of phe-
nomena not once in inorganic Nature. Matter is thought of as
something at rest, unchangeable; in order to reconcile this
thought with the view of the constantly changing world, we have
to complement it with another, independent of it, which shall
bring changeableness to pass. Such a supplementary idea was set
forth by Galileo, the creator of scientific physics, in the concep-
tion of force, as the constant cause of motion. Galileo had discov-
ered a highly important invariant for the variable phenomena of
free and induced falling. By the application of a self-existing
gravity, the effects of which continuously accumulate, he made the
complete explanation of these processes possible. The pregnancy
of this conception was demonstrated by Newton, who, with his
thought that the same force was operative as a function of the dis-
tance between the heavenly bodies, conquered the whole visible stel-
lar world for science. This advance it was, chiefly, which aroused
the conviction that all other physical phenomena could be ac-
counted for in the same way as those of astronomy by the same
auxiliary. Then when it resulted, further, at the beginning of
our century, through the labors of a number of eminent astrono-
mers, principally French, not only that Newton's law of gravita-
tion could account for the motions of the heavenly bodies in their
larger features, but that it sustained the closer and far more
thorough second test of accounting for the deviations from the
typical forms of motion, the perturbations, the confidence in
the fruitfulness of this conception was increased in an extraordi-
nary measure. What could be more readily suggested than
the supposition that the theory which had been competent to
account so completely for the motions of the great world was also
the right and only means of reducing the processes in the smaller
world of atoms to scientific control ? Thus arose the mechanical
view of Nature, according to which all phenomena, especially in
inanimate Nature, were traced back ultimately to the motions of
atoms under the same laws as were recognized for the heavenly
bodies. It was a necessary consequence that this conception of
the realm of inorganic Nature should be applied to animate Nature
