THE FAILURE OF SCIENTIFIC MATERIALISM. 593
as soon as it was perceived that the same laws which prevailed
there could also claim their inviolable right here. This view of
the world found its classical expression in Laplace's idea of a
" world formula/' by means of which every past and future event
could be brought about in a strictly analytical way according to
mechanical laws. For such a work, a mind was required which
was far superior to the human mind, but was still essentially like
it and not fundamentally different from it.
We do not ordinarily remark in how extremely high a measure
this generally current view is hypothetical, even metaphysical J
but are accustomed, on the other hand, to regard it as the maxi-
mum of exact formulation of actual facts. In contradiction to
this it should be declared that a confirmation of the consequence
that should flow out of this theory that all the non-mechanical
processes, like heat, light, electricity, magnetism, and chemism,
are really mechanical can not be reached in any single case. It
has never been possible in any one of these instances so to account
for the actual conditions by a corresponding mechanical system
that there should be no remainder.
Mechanical interpretations, it is true, have been given with
more or less considerable success to individual phenomena ; but
when the attempt has been made to account for all the facts in
any given field by means of a mechanical conception, it has
always and without exception come to pass that an irreconcilable
contradiction appeared at some point, between the actual state of
the phenomena and that which the mechanical conception would
lead us to expect. Such contradictious might remain hidden for a
long time; but the history of science teaches us that they will
inevitably sooner or later come to light ; and that all that we
can say with full certainty of such mechanical conceptions or
analogies as are usually called mechanical theories of the phe-
nomena in question is that they will at any rate fill the gap for
the present.
The history of optical theories affords a conspicuous example
of these conditions. So long as all optics included nothing more
than the phenomena of reflection and refraction, an interpretation
was possible under the mechanical scheme proposed by Newton,
according to which light consists of small particles which, thrown
out straightwise by shining bodies, behaved according to the laws
of moving and perfectly elastic masses. That another mechan-
ical view, the undulatory theory proposed by Huygens and Euler,
accomplished quite as much, might make the exclusive validity
of the former theory doubtful, but could not deprive it of its pre-
dominance. But when the phenomena of polarization and inter-
ference were discovered, Newton's mechanical conception was
found wholly inadequate, and the other, the undulatory theory,
TOL. XLTIII. 42
