THE FAILURE OF SCIENTIFIC MATERIALISM. 597
of the equivalent transformability of the different forms of
energy was too paradoxical in its simplicity to be immediately ac-
cepted. Rather have the three johysicists to whom we are most
indebted for the continued study of the law Helmholtz, Clausius,
and Lord Kelvin believed that it must be interpreted as imply-
ing that all the different forms of energy are fundamentally the
same mechanical energy. In this way, what was regarded as
most pressing close connection with the prevailing mechanical
conception of Nature was reached ; but a decisive side of the
new thought was lost.
It required a half century for the idea to mature that this
hypothetical addition to the law of energy did not give depth to
the theory, but detracted from it on its most significant side
its freedom from all arbitrary hypothesis. And not even the
recognition of this methodical circumstance, but the ultimate
failure of all attempts satisfactorily to explain all the other forms
of energy mechanically, has been, so far as our advance has as yet
proceeded, the decisive reason for giving up the mechanical ex-
planation.
You are impatient to learn how it is possible to form, by
means of so abstract an idea as energy, a theory of the world
that can compare in clearness and intuitiveness with the me-
chanical theory. I do not find the answer hard. What do we
know of the physical world ? Evidently only what our organs of
sense permit to reach us from it. But what are the conditions
under which these organs act ? Turn things as we will, we find
nothing common but that the sense organs react upon differences
of energy between them and the surroundings. In a world the
temperature of which is everywhere that of our body, we would
know nothing of heat, just as we have no idea of the constant
atmospheric pressure under which we live, and as we never gain
knowledge of it till we establish a different pressure.
You will admit this, but you will not therefore give up mat-
ter, because energy must have a bearer. But I ask you, why ?
When all that we learn of the outer world are conditions of its
energy, what ground have we for presuming anything in this
same outer world of which we have never learned anything ?
Yes, I may be answered, energy is only something thought of, an
abstraction, while matter is real. I reply : The contrary ! Matter
is a thing of thought, which we have constructed for ourselves,
rather imperfectly, to represent what is permanent in the change
of phenomena. Now that we begin to comprehend that the effec-
tive thing that is, that which affects us is only energy, we have
to determine in what relations the two stand ; and the result is in-
dubitable that the predicate of reality can be ascribed only to
energy.
