THE FAILURE OF SCIENTIFIC MATERIALISM. 599
the stick. If both have the same velocity, and that in the same
direction, then the stick exists no more for our feeling, for
it can not come in contact with us and effect an exchange of
energies.
These premises show, I hope, that all that it has hitherto been
possible to represent with the aid of the ideas of matter and force
can be represented, and much better, by means of the idea of en-
ergy ; all that is required is a transference of the properties and
laws which have been ascribed to the former to the latter. We
further gain the very great advantage of avoiding the contradic-
tions which were attached to the former mode of conception, and
which I have exposed in the former part of my thesis. While we
make no other supposition concerning the connection of the
different kinds of energy with one another than that given
through the law of the conservation of forces, we gain liberty to
study objectively the various properties appertaining to these
several kinds of energy, and can thus, by the rational considera-
tion and arrangement of these properties, set up a system of sorts
of energy which will reveal to us exactly the similarities as well
as the differences between them, and will therefore carry us scien-
tifically much further than can be done by the obliteration of
these differences by the hypothetical assumption of their intrinsic
identity. We find a good exemplification of this position in the
kinetic theory of gases, which is now almost universally accepted,
according to which the pressure of a gas arises from the collisions
among its moving particles. Now, pressure possesses no special
direction : a gas presses equally in all directions, but a collision
is dependent on a moving object, and the motion has a definite
direction. Consequently, there can be no turning back of one of
the bodies immediately upon the others. The kinetic hypothesis
deals with this difficulty by artificially neutralizing the proper-
ties of direction appertaining to the collisions through the assump-
tion that the collisions take place equally in all directions with-
out distinction. In this case the artificial adaptation of the prop-
erties of the different energies may be successful, but in other
cases it is not quite possible. Thus, for example, the factors of
electric energy tension and quantity are magnitudes which
I might propose to call polar ; that is, they are not only desig-
nated by a numerical value, but they also possess a sign of such
form that two equal magnitudes of opposite signs add up as noth-
ing, and not as of double value. Such purely polar magnitudes
are not known in mechanics. This is the reason why it will
never be possible to find even a barely passable mechanical hy-
pothesis for electrical phenomena. If such a mechanical entity
with properties of polarity could be constructed which is per-
haps not impossible, and is at any rate worth a thorough investi-
