6oo POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gation then we should have the material for illustrating at least
one side of electricity mechanically. It may, indeed, be said
here with certainty that only one side is considered, and that
here also the defectiveness, without exception, of all mechanical
hypotheses is demonstrated, and the full completion of the figure
prevented.
When we have really traced the laws of natural phenomena
back to the laws of corresponding kinds of energy, what advan-
tage have we gained ? First, the very important point that a sci-
ence free from hypothesis is possible. We inquire no longer for
forces which we can not exhibit, acting between atoms which we
can not observe, but we ask, when we would judge respecting a
process, concerning the kind and number of the energies going
into it and issuing from it. We can measure them, and all that it
is necessary to know can be expressed in that form. How enor-
mous a methodical advantage that is will be clear to everybody
whose scientific conscience has suffered from the unceasing amal-
gamation of fact and hypothesis which the physics and chemistry
of the present offer as rational science. The energistic is the way
in which Kirchhoff's variously misunderstood demand for replac-
ing what is called the theory of Nature by the description of phe-
nomena can be fulfilled in its right sense. With this freedom from
hypothesis of energistic science is at the same time associated a
simplicity which, it can be said without hesitation, has not been
reached before. I have already pointed to the philosophical sig-
nificance of this simple principle in the comprehension of natural
phenomena. It lies in the nature of the matter, but might also
well be declared on other considerations, that an immense advan-
tage will result to the teaching and comprehension of science by
means of this philosophical simplification. To cite only one ex-
ample, we might assert that all equations, without exception,
which relate two or more different kinds of phenomena to one
another, must be equations between magnitudes of energy, else
they are not possible. This is a consequence of the fact that
besides the conceptions space and time, energy is the only entity
that is common to the different fields, and in fact to all, with-
out exception ; comparisons can not be made between different
fields otherwise than by the portions of energy that come into
question.
I shall have to refrain from showing here how an immense
number of relations, a part of which were already known and a
part are new, can be immediately written down by means of this
view, while formerly they had to be deduced by more or less de-
tailed calculations. I can not either set before you in comparison
the new sides which other already, if not so perfectly known
propositions of thermodynamics, the most extended part of ener-
