THE FAILURE OF SCIENTIFIC MATERIALISM. 601
gistics, have exhibited in the light of the general theory of energy.
All these things must indeed be so, if what I have said to you of
the significance of the new theory is well founded. I need not re-
vert to this again.
But I can not forbear proposing a final question. When we
have succeeded in grasping a significant and fruit-bearing truth
in its entire, even magnitude, we are only too easily inclined to
regard all as likewise concluded in its circle which comes within
the field in question. We see this fault perpetrated every day in
science, and the opinion which I have devoted half of the time
allotted to me in contesting has grown out of just such an error.
We shall therefore have to ask ourselves at once. Is the energy
which is so necessary and useful for the understanding of Nature
also sufiicient for that object ? Or are there phenomena which
can not be wholly accounted for by the laws of energy as they are
yet known ?
I believe that the responsibility which I have assumed toward
you through my thesis can not be better discharged than by my
declaring that these questions must be answered with a denial of
the universal competency of energy. Immense as are the advan-
tages which the energistic theory of the world has over the me-
chanical or the naturalistic, there can still, it seems to me, some
points be indicated which are not covered by the acknowledged
principles of energistics, and which, therefore, point to the exist-
ence of principles transcending these. Energistics will exist by
the side of these new principles. Only it is not, as we must
already perceive, to be the future most comprehensive principle
for the mastering of natural phenomena, but will be manifest,
presumably, as a particular instance of still more general condi-
tions, of the form of which we at this time can certainly have
hardly a foreboding.
I do not apprehend that what I have said has depreciated the
mental advance for which so much has been claimed ; I have my-
self extolled that advance. For it has more than once occurred
to us that science can never and nowhere recognize any limits to
its progress, and even in the midst of the contest for a new pos-
session the eye should not be blind to the fact that beyond the
ground we have succeeded in winning extend other stretches that
must be acquired later on. In the former time we could put up
with the dust and smoke of the conflict preventing our looking
into the narrow limits of the battlefield. To-day this is no longer
permissible ; to-day we shoot with smokeless powder or, at least,
ought to and have, therefore, with the possibility, also the duty,
of not falling into the errors of earlier epochs.
>
