6o2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
STEPPES, DESERTS, AND ALKALI LANDS.
By Prof. E. W. HILGAED.
THE average reader feels but a moderate interest in the sub-
ject of steppes, which he usually associates with roving herds
and Tartar or Indian tribes, whose periodic raids have in the past
been a standing source of disquiet to civilization, whether in the
Occident or Orient. The predatory habits of these people seemed
to be proof sufficient of the fact that the countries occupied by
them are not able to support permanently a population devoted to
agricultural and industrial pursuits, and that their inhabitants
are under more or less natural stress toward levying forced con-
tributions upon their neighbors in order to eke out their existence
in a satisfactory way, as in the case of the tribes of the deserts
properly so called.
As to alkali lands, so far as they are known and considered at
all, they are regarded only as obstacles to the settlement and cul-
tivation of the otherwise desirable lands whose continuity they
mar, aside from the discomfort their pungent dust and saline
water causes to the overland traveler ; while their Old World
equivalents, the " salt steppes " of southeastern Russia, central
Asia, and northern Africa, are among the most disconsolate
images conjured up by the imagination of those who traverse or
read about them. Moreover, it is currently supposed that these
regions owe their saline soil to the evaporation of former salt
lakes or seas, and that an indefinite amount of similar salts lurks
below the surface, ready to replace whatever may be removed in
any attempt to reclaim the lands for cultivation.
From this point of view it is hard to understand why the peo-
ple foremost in ancient civilizations should have chosen for their
abodes, and should have developed their civilization rather pre-
dominantly, in regions either adjacent to deserts, or having, dur-
ing a considerable portion of the year, the aspect and character of
the ill-reputed steppe. Egypt is the example nearest to Europe,
but Asia Minor, Syria (including Palestine, the "land where milk
and honey flows "), Persia, Arabia, and (crossing the Indus) north-
ern India, the classic ground of the Vedas and Mahabharata, are
more or less tainted with " the breath of the desert," as well as
with its actual presence to a greater or less degree. Looking
westward, we again find the old Carthaginian and later Moorish
civilization on the borders of the desert. Crossing the Atlantic,
we find the empire of the Incas on the steep, bare, uninviting
western slope of the Andes, when just across the divide there lay
the rich countries now forming the Colombian republics and
typically exuberant Brazil. In North America, likewise, the civ-
