EXERCISE AS A REMEDY. 627
still more to lack of precision in its application. While its proper
prescription is undoubtedly more difficult than that of drugs, no
drug is capable of producing effects at all comparable, and the
care and attention devoted to its intelligent application by physi-
cian and patient are well repaid. It is a practical point of the first
importance that individuals differ enormously according to con-
stitution, temperament, training, and previous habits as to the
amount of exercise that will be required to produce a given result.
While those who have been trained may require severe or labo-
rious exercise to produce physiological effects, the writer has met
with individuals free from disease in whom the gentlest passive
movements, lasting the fraction of a minute, would produce de-
cided subsequent stiffness and constitutional disturbance. As it
is just these sensitive and undisciplined people who may be most
benefited by properly adapted exercise, it is evident that the
kind and amount required must not be gauged by any absolute
standard but by the reactive powers of the individual. Like
some drugs, exercise may produce different and even opposite
effects, according to the dosage and consequent intensity of ac-
tion. Slow rhythmical passive movements are decidedly calming,
while moderately active movements are stimulating to mental ac-
tion. A careful distinction should be made between primary and
remote effects. Exercise has also its synergists, antagonists, and
incompatibles, its acute and chronic toxic effects, and their anti-
dotes. The synergists of exercise are fresh air, a nourishing diet,
sufficient rest, an unstrained and cheerful mind, and temperate
and regular habits ; moderate cold and possibly certain tonic
drugs are a help to exercise. Exercise is antagonized by the
opposite of the above-mentioned, and by toxic substances in the
blood. Some interesting facts have recently been observed as to
the effect of the use of tobacco in checking growth and the de-
veloping effect of exercise. From measurements of the one hun-
dred and eighty-seven men of the class of 1891, Yale, Dr. J. W.
Seaver found that the non-users of tobacco gained in weight during
the college course 10'4 per cent more than the regular users, and
6"6 per cent more than the occasional users of tobacco. In height
the non-users increased twenty- four per cent more than the regu-
lar users and twelve per cent more than the occasional users. In
increase of chest girth the non-users had an advantage of 26*7 per
cent and twenty-two per cent, and an increase of lung capacity of
77"5 per cent and forty-nine per cent respectively. These facts in
regard to the dwarfing effects of tobacco are corroborated by
observations on the class of 1891, Amherst, made by Dr. Edward
Hitchcock. He found that in weight the non-smokers increased
during their course twenty-four per cent more than the smokers ;
in increase in height they surpassed them thirty-seven per cent;
