628 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in gain of chest girth, forty-two per cent ; and in gain of lung
capacity, seventy-five per cent. It is probable that alcohol and
other poisons have similar effects.
Exercise of the skeletal muscles is contraindicated in haemor-
rhage, fever, inflammation, certain toxaemias, and serious injuries.
Pain is an uncertain indication ; if it result from inflammation or
local injury, exercise is contraindicated, otherwise not necessarily.
In acute local inflammation exercise is very injurious, since it
increases the local congestion. Severe or sudden exertion should
not be permitted in cases of aneurism, atheromatous arteries,
cardiac vegetations or extreme cardiac weakness, but systematic
training may be beneficial in the latter condition. Severe exer-
tion should also be avoided soon after eating and in states of
great physical and mental fatigue. Nothing will break down the
system more quickly than the combination of mental worry or
strain with physical prostration, though gentle exercises are often
of value in resting the brain by bringing new centers into play,
and thus effecting a better distribution of cerebral activity. It is
futile to add to the burden of individuals already overworked,
and the proper remedy in such cases is the reduction or proper
proportioning of their total work, better hygiene, and provision
for adequate periods of rest, repose, and recreation, which are
the efficient antidotes for the toxic effects of excessive exercise.
Well-chosen exercise may often be made to minister to mental
poise, and thus to restful effects. It has been pointed out that the
individual patient usually needs not exercise or rest exclusively,
but exercise and rest in the proper proportions and in the proper
order. The beneficial effects of treatment may often be enhanced
by placing the two in sharp contrast. Exercise produces a better
impression on a background of rest, and rest on a background
of exercise ; and particular attention should be paid to securing
variety of action by contrasting one set of exercises with others
involving different groups of muscles, or the same groups in a
different manner. The level road may be the harder to travel in
the long run. Neither its specific effect in any named disease,
still less the piling up of enormous masses of muscle, is the thera-
peutic object of exercise, but the production of definite local or
general physiological effects. Increased muscular power is usual-
ly an incidental result, but marked remedial effects are often pro-
duced with very moderate muscular development. The too domi-
nant idea of "gymnastics" should not make us lose sight of the
vast therapeutic importance of the nervous reactions associated
with muscular movements, and of the systematic culture and
training of the involuntary neuromuscular apparatus, which cei-
tainly depends in large degree on the activity of the skeletal
muscles, but is often best elicited by massage, passive move-
