44 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
by modern inventions, and in a country where no economic revo-
lution has occurred England : *
Tear.
SHILLINGS PER WEEK.
Blacksmith.
Mason.
Carpenter.
1740
16
21
32
16
23
35
15
1840
20
1880
30
Thus wages are seen to have advanced about twice as much in
the forty years, 1840 to 1880, as in the previous century. In the
United States Mulhall gives tables (Dictionary of Statistics, page
463) showing that operatives' wages have risen from two hundred
and fifty to three hundred dollars per annum in the thirty years
beginning with 1850. Even during the last few years, in spite of
the depression prevailing, I very much doubt if wages and sal-
aries have, taken as a whole, declined at all, or at any rate so
much as is usually supposed. Only a few days since I read in a
newspaper of the city in which I live a table showing that the
salaries of teachers in the public schools had had a steady average
increase during the past four years; and the increase was not
confined to any one year, but continued gradually through the
whole period. However this may be, we can not turn to any
reputable authority which does not show that a large increase of
wages has occurred during the past fifty years in every civilized
country. If, therefore, " gold has risen fifty per cent " in value,
the working classes have had a far more wonderful advance than
they or any one else supposed.
Again, real estate is one of the greatest of commodities, and if
the dollar has increased in value it ought to be reflected in the fall
of real estate. No such fall has, however, taken place. Farms in
the United States, irrespective of cattle, implements, etc., rose
from two hundred and fifty dollars per inhabitant to two hundred
and eighty dollars per inhabitant during the thirty years ending
in 1880 t a fine increase, considering the accompanying increase
of population.
Another consideration is of far greater weight than any de-
rived from a single commodity. If land rises in value, the rent
increases ; if money rises in value by reason of scarcity, the rate of
interest advances. If, then, the combined Shylocks of the world,
together with the banks, England, and Wall Street, have " de-
monetized silver " in order to " corner money " and boom the rate
of interest, there ought to be traces of it. Singular as it may be
to our silver friends, there seem to be none. In fifty years the
* Mulhall, Dictionary of Statistics, p. 461. f Ibid., p. 9.
