EXERCISE AS A REMEDY. 629
ments, hydrotherapy, and hygiene; all these involve exercise in
a fundamental sense, and are of great therapeutic utility, even in
febrile states, where exercise of the skeletal muscles is absolutely
contraindicated.
The professional and domestic occupations, recreations, and
sports have been noticed in their relation to the hygiene of exer-
cise, and it is desirable that these means, which are within the
reach of such large numbers of people, should be more often util-
ized therapeutically. For this purpose it should be remembered
that many exercises have a preponderating effect on certain organs.
"Rowing tells on the breathing organs; the work of dumb-
bells, and of other exercises where muscles are moved without
progression of the body, tells most on the muscles themselves ;
and long pedestrian feats, with climbing, tell on the nervous sys-
tem. In cycling, as in running, it is the heart and circulation
that first give demonstrative evidence of important change of
action" (Richardson).
Housework, chores, gardening, walking, climbing, cycling, run-
ning, swimming, and many other sports give just the kind of
exercise that is indicated in certain conditions, due regard being
had to the physiological effects of varying dosage. Oertel has
shown how the simple exercise of walking may be adapted to
sufferers from cardiac debility by prescribing the distance and
speed, and the number and length of the rests, on definite paths
graduated according to their slope. His interesting and original
work has not only given a new direction to the treatment of cer-
tain cardiac affections, but is destined to have an important in-
fluence in establishing accuracy in the prescription of exercise.
Whoever has studied the map of the environs of Reichenhall, Ba-
varia, prepared by Oertel for the application of his method, will
acquire a vivid idea of what precision of dosing in exercise means.
In this map the different paths suitable for the work are marked
in four different colors, to indicate those that are nearly level,
those slightly sloping, moderately sloping, and steep, and figures
are placed along each route to show the space that should be
traversed in each quarter hour. The locality itself is prepared
for its remedial use by placing benches for resting at suitable dis-
tances, and by marking on certain trees near the path circles, col-
ored to correspond with the map, to indicate the difficulty of that
particular section. By systematic practice on the easier paths the
heart and system are progressively trained and strengthened. In-
telligent analysis may do the same work for cycling, horseback
riding, and many other familiar exercises. In this way the dosage
is practically reduced to a definite number of kilogram metres in a
giv^en time, and a step has been taken in placing the prescription
of exercise upon a scientific basis.
