630 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Recreations and sports have the inestimable advantage of
being taken in the open air and being interesting to those who
take them two factors whose absence in any form of therapeutic
exercise is with diflQculty atoned for. Athletics, though sharing
in these advantages, are not well adapted to most therapeutic pur-
poses, on account of their excesses, indefinite dosage, and lack of
variety, each contestant being a specialist in one or a few forms of
exercise. There remain for consideration the formal exercises of
drill of various kinds, gymnastics, Swedish exercises, including
passive and mechanical movements, and massage, which is else-
where treated of in this work.
As the primary purpose of military, fire, and other drills is
not therapeutic, they are not well suited to the treatment of dis-
ease, though they share in the beneficial effects of systematic ex-
ercise. The manual of arms is not adapted to young children,
being too formal and too strenuous ; the writer has seen cases of
lateral curvature, knock-knees, nervousness, and debility in young
boys which had apparently been aggravated if not produced by
military drill.
Modern gymnastics has been largely shaped with reference to
military purposes, and, while gymnastic exercises, if well selected
and proportioned, do promote muscular development and physical
grace and vigor, they are easily carried to an extreme, and in-
stances are not rare where they have broken down the constitu-
tion, instead of building it up. Feats of skill train the nerve cen-
ters more than the muscles, and once the trick is acquired, their
value as exercise is slight. Feats of strength often put an inju-
rious strain upon the organism, with no corresponding benefit.
The arm appears to be the object of all the exercises of modern
gymnastics (Legrange) ; breasting and other movements which
throw the suspension or support of the body upon the arms and
shoulders give them unsuitable work, and result in disproportion-
ate development of the muscles of the shoulder girdle, often asso-
ciated'with a rounded back, and little or no increased power of
ventilation, since all such feats are performed with a chest fixed
and constricted by muscular effort. The gymnastics of the mod-
ern gymnasium are in marked contrast with the athletic exercises
of the Greeks, with whom the striving for physical perfection
amounted to a passion. Their exercises were running, wrestling,
boxing, fencing, and throwing the discus, taken in the open air,
without apparatus, and exercising the body throughout, and espe-
cially in the fundamental associated movements of the trunk and
limbs. The defects of ordinary gymnastics have been felt by
those interested in physical culture, and have been partly obviated
by the introduction of free movements, like running, jumping, and
wrestling, and partly by the use of resistance machines, usually
