EXERCISE AS A REMEDY. 631
constructions of levers, pulleys, and weights, designed to exercise
special groups of muscles, as in the Sargent system of apparatus.
These reward effort, however, with depressing monotony, are
devoid of most of the beneficial general effects of exercise, and
appear to the writer to lack the elements of a coherent system.
The old gymnastic idea, in the endeavor to accomplish certain
feats and to pile up large masses of muscle, ignored the intimate
co-operation between muscle and nerve, and the delicate balance
between co-operating and modifying muscular groups necessary
to build up a clear-sighted, well-balanced mind, in perfect and
harmonious but largely unconscious mastery of the bodily move-
ments. The wise teacher and physician have small interest in
gymnastic feats, but direct muscular activity into those channels
best suited to promote harmonious mental and bodily develop-
ment and adjustment.
"With the Swedish system of exercises, devised by Ling and
elaborated by his pupils, totally different ground is reached. Peter
Henrik Ling was a fencing master, who became interested in ex-
ercise as a stimulus to development and as a remedy from observ-
ing its beneficial effects on his own health. He never took a med-
ical degree, but developed remedial exercises into a system, which
remains to-day as the basis of the most valuable procedures in
therapeutic kinesiology. He also devised systems of educational,
military, and aesthetic exercises. These exercises are based on the
physiological actions of the different muscle groups and their
relations to each other, and consist in free voluntary movements
executed by the patient in different positions and in a determined
order. The remedial movements include, in addition, passive
movements executed by a manipulator, and assistive and resistive
movements, in which the operator opposes resistance to the move-
ments of the patient, or vice versa. To these are added the vari-
ous manipulations of massage.
The Swedish therapeutic exercises emphasize strongly the
local effect of movements, and hence have been called localized
movements, and are largely used for specific local purposes. They
proceed from the simple to the complex, aiming to establish cor-
rect fundamental attitudes and relations, and to invigorate and
develop deficient parts through exercises adapted to the particular
condition and situation. The value of gentle and passive exercise
in conditions of debility, and of the systematic progressive adap-
tation of the exercise to the strength of the patient, is recognized
and practiced.
The Swedish system avoids the abnormal development of spe-
cial parts and the gratuitous feats of ordinary gymnastics, and
produces normally acting viscera, a graceful carriage, and good
muscular and mental control. One school of the Swedes, led by
