6j2 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Zander, has in the last thirty years developed a system of mechan-
ical movements, both active and passive, given by means of appa-
ratus. In these the resistance and amount of motion can be grad-
uated to the patient's needs, and the personal element of the
operator is eliminated. Each system fulfills certain indications,
and neither can wholly supplant the other. If the Swedish school
had given us nothing more than passive movements in therapeu-
tics, our debt would have been great. The extraordinary promi-
nence in recent years of massage as a remedial agent, in so far as
it is justified by results, rests largely on the employment with it
of passive movements. These enable the patient to obtain many
of the benefits of exercise without effort and without undue
fatigue, and can be employed in thousands of cases when active
exercises are contraindicated or impracticable. Through passive
exercises may be obtained the local effects of exercise on the cir-
culation, easing of cardiac action or its gentle stimulation, mental
discipline, or mental sedation, as in the soothing effects of rocking
or swaying movements on infants ; in a word, the more harmoni-
ous distribution of nervous and vascular activity.
It is well to remember Ling's adage that every movement
properly performed is a respiratory exercise, and it is probable
that respiratory development may be best attained through
climbing, running, and similar exercises by those who are strong
enough and energetic enough to take them. Those who most
need them, however, are neither strong nor energetic, and it is
often impossible to get patients to practice the purely respiratory
exercises with sufficient care and persistence. In such cases,
where more thorough pulmonary ventilation and respiratory
power are required, passive respiratory movements, manually or
mechanically given, often serve a useful purpose.
There is no more promising field for the therapeutic applica-
tion of exercise than in the treatment of the insane and mentally
unbalanced and defective. The elder Seguin has shown that the
idiotic brain could be most effectively reached and developed
through neuromuscular training, especially of the hand, and the
value of manual employments, industrial training, and social life
has been to some extent recognized in provision for the epileptic,
idiotic, insane, and criminal. The striking and oft-quoted results
obtained by Dr. Wey in the physical training of vicious and
stupid criminals at the Elmira Reformatory by means of im-
proved diet and systematic bathing, massage, drill, and gymnas-
tics, mark an era in the treatment of the defective classes. A
large proportion of previously incorrigibly dull and vicious in-
dividuals submitted to a few months of this treatment improved
remarkably in physical and mental condition. It is safe to say
that better provision will be made in future in our public institu-
