EXERCISE AS A REMEDY. 633
tions for the proper application of exercise in its various forms of
manual training, sports, drill, gymnastics, and special exercises.
As exercise is a fundamental factor in the development and
culture of the mind, it can be used to modify mental states, and
has most important general and special applications in many
nervous diseases. The repetition of rather gentle monotonous
movements, especially of the automatic or passive kind, tends to
allay mental excitement and nervous irritability. If the excite-
ment is of the active insistent type, more vigorous exercise of
duration to the point of fatigue may be beneficial, but should be
semi-automatic, like walking, cycling, or rowing. These prin-
ciples find a useful application in the treatment of insomnia. If
the patient is dull and apathetic, with sluggish circulation and
nutrition, exercises involving quickness and skill that is, a
more lively mental co-operation, like fencing, tennis, or boxing
should be used. In other cases the brain may need to be pro-
gressively trained through manual employments. The finer and
more delicately adjusted the movements the less their value as
muscular exercise, and the more the nerve centers are called into
play. Writing, sewing knitting, playing on instruments, and in
general the use of the hands mainly are valuable as mental train-
ing, but lack the beneficial general effects of vigorous exercise
of the more fundamental groups. From its action as a cerebral
sedative or tonic, exercise may be used as a m.eans of influencing
certain definite areas in the centers, in order to soothe, to stimu-
late, or to distribute and proportion mental action ; and certain
exercises may be abstained from to deprive certain areas of stim-
ulation. We know no drug that acts mainly on the arm centers
or mainly on the leg centers, but we can with certainty bring
either of these centers into action by prescribing indicated exer-
cises. In an important group of neuroses due to the excessive
repetition of certain fine movements, usually of the accessory
kind, involving accurate co-ordination, such as writer's, teleg-
rapher's, and piano-player's cramp, and similar troubles, char-
acterized by local pain and inco-ordination, usually associated
with extreme mental anxiety, the hurtful practice should be
stopped and massage and more general exercises involving more
fundamental groups substituted. In another class of cases the
bedfast neurasthenics the nutrition must first be built up by
seclusion and systematic feeding, and the neuromuscular system,
both voluntary and involuntary, aroused and strengthened by
bathing, massage, and passive movements. Patients that would
be injured at first by attempts at active movements will thrive
on gentle passive movements of the arms and legs, and will soon
be actively co-operating. When sufficiently advanced they can
be taught to walk, and before they can do much at this they can
VOL. XLVIII. 45
