634- POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
take with great benefit some forms of passive mechanical move-
ments, given after the Swedish system with power machinery,
and which cause them to execute walking movements, respira-
tory movements, and trunk flexions while reclining, and with a
minimum of effort and fatigue. Neurasthenics less severely
affected can take such movements from the start, and they are
indicated where the effects of exercise in equalizing the circula-
tion and nervous activity, developing respiratory capacity and
the supply of oxygen, increasing peristaltic and hepatic action,
and nutrition, are desired for patients who are physically too
delicate or who have too little energy or persistence to be able
to get much benefit from exercise where vigorous volitional co-
operation is involved. When the latter can be successfully pre-
scribed the patient is well on the way to recovery.
Exercises of endurance, like cycling, rowing, and running,
pushed to the point of considerable fatigue, are the most effective
aids to continence, since the procreative impulse is the expression
of a surplus of energy, and is abated if enough energy is regu-
larly used up through muscular work.
As the larger number of functional disorders of the digestive
system, such as dyspepsia and constipation, are the result either
of the habitual neglect of muscular exercise or else of exercise
taken under conditions of hurry, nervous tension, or fatigue, it is
clear that the regulation of exercise and habits of life must be
urgently indicated. In conditions of atony the patient must be
trained to a variety of exercises, especially those involving the
waist, abdomen, and trunk, among which the more active ones
may be gradually introduced. In the cases due to debility from
nerve tire, exercises requiring much skill should not be chosen,
since these involve increased demands on the higher nerve
centers. As there is usually sluggishness of the abdominal circu-
lation, those exercises should be selected which will act on the
abdominal organs through the muscles of the waist and trunk
and upon respiration. Among the best of these is riding, which,
moreover, affords just enough variety of scene and interest in the
control of the horse to turn the current of an incessantly active
brain into new and more restful channels. Riding may be as
accurately dosed as walking, and may range from very gentle to
exceedingly severe exercise, according to the gait, training, and
disposition of the horse, the muscular development, tempera-
ment, and expertness of the rider, and the character of the ride.
Changing from one mount to another also gives more variety of
exercise than always riding the same horse. Abdominal massage
is sometimes useful in constipation, as are also the arm, leg, and
trunk movements of the Swedes or of the gymnasium, and walk-
ing, running, leaping, tennis, and other sports have their uses.
