THE STORY OF A MONKEY. 637
THE STORY OF A MONKEY.
By M. J. DYEOWSKl.
WE were on the third hour of our march, one morning ; it was
nearly nine o'clock, and the sun was already getting burn-
ing hot, when, turning one of the green capes which the forest
sends out in the sea that washes its base, we perceived the gay
tricolor flapping near a hut. It was the port of Nyanga (in the
Congo country). We had completed a hard day's work on the
previous evening. The great forest, composed of spiny palms and
interlacing lianas, drove us continually to the edge of the raging
sea ; a leaden sun darted its burning rays upon us, and the reflec-
tion from the fine sand threw a blinding light into our faces,
which we could only endure by half closing our eyes. We were
broken up as much by this toilsome march as by the all-envelop-
ing heat, which in spite of all the precautions we could take, with
helmet and dress of light linen, produced at last that kind of in-
solation which is shown by the fever that reigns normally in this
country, and which a trifle will arouse. A thing that rendered
this march still more difiicult was that the sea washing into the
lagoons that stretched along the shore made their water brackish,
so that we could only get a little fresh water in the evening by
stretching out our India-rubber coats to catch the drops from a
shower that came up.
The sight of the French flag refreshed our strength, and we
walked more rapidly to reach it the sooner, and take a little rest
that we greatly needed. The port of Nyanga was held by a
brigadier of customs, M. Lambert, who gave us the privilege of
his house with a sincere cordiality. It was decided that we
should remain there two or three days and make some excursions
in the neighborhood.
Not far from the house was a little straw hut used as a kitchen,
to which our host went to give his orders. I followed him, and
saw in it, in one corner, tied to one of the posts, a pretty monkey,
which as we came nearer to it uttered low cries and stretched its
hands toward us. I was struck with the beauty of the creature
and asked why it was there. I was told that it had been three
years at the post, and that it usually lived at large ; but that it
was sometimes necessary to tie it, on account of the mischief it
would not fail to commit when it was allowed to run where it
would.
As I took so much interest in it, it was tied to the veranda.
We soon became the best of friends. It was very pleasant and
familiar. It allowed itself to be caressed, and responded to the
advances that were made to it with cries of satisfaction. It played
