640 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
there was no certainty that Nyanga might not meet some com-
panion and follow him without thinking any more of us. From
time to time we heard her calls, which the natives knew so well.
They call this species the king of monkeys, for they believe that
when its voice is heard all the monkeys in the wood keep silent.
But Baba, the Senegalian, provoked that one of the monkeys
given him to take care of should have escaped, made every effort
to catch the runaway. He had climbed an enormous tree with a
trunk so large that it could not be scaled except by gymnastic
efforts of which the blacks alone, who are almost as agile as the
monkeys, are capable. He was away at the top, close against a
branch, motionless, and hardly distinguishable from it. He had
taken with him a light pole at the end of which was fixed a cord
with a slip knot, and he hoped that he could get near enough to
the monkey to take it in his snare. With a patience of which we
whites would be incapable, he waited for the favorable moment.
He had been there nearly three hours without moving, when all
at once we heard him crying out from the branches, " Nyanga is
caught ! " It was true. Baba had waited till the monkey in her
gambols had got upon a large branch that hung directly over the
lake, had urged her gradually to the slender extremities of the
bough ; and there the animal had been forced to let herself be
approached, for her only means of escape was to jump from a
height of forty or fifty metres into the lake on the bank of which
we were encamped. This adventure cost Nyanga the loss of all
her liberty. In order to prevent her escaping again she was shut
up like any common monkey in a cage, and was not let out from
it except when we were camped at a post.
After this long lapse of about a month, which was required for
the return from these distant regions, Nyanga, with twenty com-
panions of various species which we had picked up on the way,
took the express to Paris, and entered the Museum of Natural
History, where she became the object of special attentions.
M. Milne-Edwards, on examining the animal, recognized in it
a species still very rare, of which the British Museum has three
skins from the island of Fernando Po. Bennett made a new
species of it, which he describes as Cercopithecus pogonias. The
specimen we brought is therefore the first that has come to
Europe alive. Fortunately, I killed an adult male of this species
in my African hunts, so that the French galleries also possess a
stuffed specimen of it.
The Cercopithecus pogonias is a type reaching the full dimen-
sions of the genus that is, adult individuals measure from about
forty-five to fifty centimetres in height. Their tail is very long,
reaching eighty centimetres. The skin is gray almost black
upon the back, passes with a lighter tint on the flanks, and is
