THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GOLD. 45
average rate of interest in the United States has been about
cut in two. The best railroad bonds formerly bore seven and
ten per cent interest; now they bear four and five per cent.
The same proportion holds good of United States bonds and
of municipal indebtedness. Every decade has seen a great
decline in the rate of interest. If, now, money is getting
scarce, and if, as our silver friends claim, the quantity of money
regulates its value, then interest should be three or four times
as high as we find it. While I do not claim that the fall of
interest, which has taken place in Europe as well as America,
absolutely proves that the value of money has not risen, I do
think it very good evidence of the fact ; and it certainly shows
that the " bankers' conspiracy " theory of the free-silver men is
one of the wildest ideas ever put forth by men outside of insane
asylums.
II. Having briefly considered what may be called the direct
evidence bearing on the subject, it remains to consider the indi-
rect the circumstances occurring during this half century which
would naturally have an influence on the value of gold money.
One of the most prominent of these is the growth of banks and
the popularization of checks. The first English bank was
established just two hundred years ago. " Since 1840 the bank-
ing of the world has increased about eleven fold that is, three
times as fast as commerce, or thirty times faster than popu-
lation."
In 1870 the Bank of Germany did about seventy-five times the
business it transacted in 1820. A like state of affairs prevails in
the United States. A very large proportion some say ninety-
five per cent of the country's business in done by checks which
supply the place of currency, and diminish to their extent the
necessity of the use of gold. Fifty years since comparatively
little business was done through banks. In this way the cur-
rency, while maintaining its quality, has been vastly expanded ;
so that the actual currency (counting checks) circulating in the
United States to-day is perhaps one hundred times what it was in
1845. Banks and the use of checks also save the loss of gold aris-
ing from shipwreck and other accident, and, by storing it quietly
in vaults, save the loss by abrasion which would occur if it were
actually used in business.
A great economy in the use of gold has been made by modern
electroplating inventions. Few things are now made of solid
gold. Solid gold watch cases are superseded by " filled," which
are stronger and wear sufiiciently well. Plate, too, has largely
gone out of style, a circumstance which is a principal cause in the
decline of silver. " Official returns of silver stamped in Great
Britain for plate and ornament show an annual average of 1,091,-
