NORMAL AND HEIGHTENED SUGGESTIBILITY. 641
changed into a briglit red on the chest, abdomen, and inside of
the limbs. The face is furnished with full, light gray whiskers
on the cheeks, and a very peculiar aspect is given to it by two
broad white rays that extend from the superciliary arches to the
top of the head, and unite with the tuft of black hairs to form a
forelock on top of the forehead. Two bands of the same dark color
occupy the sides of the face. Captivity did not take away her
charming manners from Nyanga. She came to us joyously and
let us caress her, and we could let her out of the cage then with-
out danger of her running away. But the amiable animal had
just escaped the greatest danger.
Her skin is so beautiful, she takes care of it with such pains
that she is in as fine condition as if she were living free in the
forests of the Congo ; so that a person, whom I will not be so un-
kind as to name, found her so well kept that he proposed nothing
less than to kill her, in order to put her stuffed skin in the cases.
Fortunately, this idea was not carried out ; and it is not likely
that the learned director of the museum would ever consent to
listen to it.* Translated for the Popular Science Monthly from La
Nature.
NORMAL AND HEIGHTENED SUGGESTIBILITY.
By Peof. WILLIAM ROMAINE NEW BOLD.
THERE is perhaps no question so perplexing to a worker in a
relatively new field as that which arises with reference to
his terminology. Not only must he be influenced by consider-
ations of euphony and etymological correctness, but he must also
be on his guard against using words the connotations of which
would tend to lead both himself and his reader astray in their
practical inferences. It is, for example, true that a quart of alco-
hol acts as a poison, but it does not follow that we should use an
ounce of alcohol as we would an ounce of strychnine. It may be
eminently proper to apply a bad name to a dog under certain
conditions, but it does not follow that the dog should be forthwith
hanged.
" Suggestion " and " suggestibility " are words which usage
compels us to employ, and, as their connotations are apt to mis-
lead us, I shall find it necessary to preface my account with a
brief analysis of their various meanings.
In dealing with any mental state, we have to consider (1) its
character, (2) its conditions and causes, (3) its effects. The word
" suggestion " properly denotes either an agency which produces
a mental state, or the state so produced, and in the latter use it
connotes the notion of the agency. Its most common meaning,
VOL, XLYIII, 4:6
