642 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
however, is still narrower, and is limited to mental states spring-
ing directly or indirectly from physical stimuli, especially from
words.
The effects of mental states, to which I called attention in my
second article, were long ignored in psychology. The first to
obtain clear recognition was the property of producing ideas, and
this has become famous as " the law of association." The motor
effects of mental states have been more recently noted, and the
study of such effects is now rapidly becoming the fashion in cur-
rent psychology, much as the study of association came into vogue
in England a century ago or thereabouts. Now, the study of
association has been prosecuted for the most part by the psycholo-
gist's watching the fl.ow of his own ideas, but the effects of men-
tal states upon movements what Prof. Baldwin calls dyna-
mogeny has hitherto been studied chiefly by noting the motor
effects of ideas and sensations suggested from without by words
or physical stimuli of other kinds. Hence the word " sugges-
tion " has come to include among its connotations not only the
notion of the cause but also that of the effect especially the mo-
tor effect of the suggested state, and in the derivative " suggesti-
bility " the original meaning is almost lost ; it does not mean " a
condition in which mental states may be more readily initiated
by suitable causes," but, "a condition in which mental states,
however initiated, tend to work out their proper results more
readily than usual." From this usage, which is nowadays the
most common, is derived a still broader one which I shall not
scruple to employ. By an individual's suggestibility we denote
the fact that in him every mental state tends to work out definite
results of its own. In this sense we are all suggestible. The
word corresponds to dynamogeny, save that the latter term has
reference to the motor tendencies only of the state, while sug-
gestibility includes its tendency to development, its associative
and metabolic tendencies as well. The condition commonly
known as suggestibility, in which the results of the individual
state are more easily traced than usual, I would strictly term
" heightened suggestibility," but for the sake of brevity it may be
allowable to call it also simply suggestibility ; the context will
usually show what degree of suggestibility we are talking of.
Suggestions may be subdivided with reference to their origin
into suggestions from without, due to impressions received
through the senses, and suggestions from within, arising from
some pre-existing thought. These are usually termed auto-sug-
gestions and hetero-suggestions. Both words are barbarous
hybrids, but the former at least is too deeply fixed in usage to be
displaced. The distinction is sometimes of importance, since
many patients who are very suggestible from within are not at
