NORMAL AND HEIGHTENED SUGGESTIBILITY. 643
all so from without, and vice versa. Yet it is difficult to draw-
any sharp line of demarcation between the two classes, and in
the account which I shall give of suggestion I shall confine myself
to the latter. I may have occasion to recur to suggestions from
within in a later paper. I shall also limit myself to the discus-
sion of the tendency to development and the associative and motor
tendencies of mental states, omitting for the present their effects
upon the metabolic processes. Tlius the chief phenomena which
I shall pass in review are, (1) the development of a suggested idea
into a " sensory " hallucination, (2) the expansion of a suggested
idea into a complete dream by evocation of associated ideas, (3)
the production of bodily movements by means of suggested sensa-
tions or ideas.
As I have already said, it is not easy to observe that one is
one's self suggestible. One's present consciousness contains at all
times such a mass of subnascent, nascent, and vivid states that it
is impossible to trace the effects of any one group, yet occasionally
one can catch a state on the wing, as it were, and note its effects.
Some years ago, I pame home about ten o'clock one sunny morning,
deeply absorbed in thought ; of the latter part of my walk I had
no clear inemories, but I came to myself to find myself standing in
the sunlight, holding a lighted match aloft in my right hand,
apparently looking for a gasjet. I always carried in a certain
pocket my keys and a matchbox; the sight of the door had
prompted me to thrust my hand into my pocket, but I had no
clear thought of the latchkey of which I was in search. Had I
had, the mere fact that my hand happened to come in contact
with the matchbox would have produced no result. As it was,
the feeling of the matchbox found no obstacle to its working out
its own results my hand closed on the box, withdrew and opened
it, took out a match and struck it, and this organized motor series
was wrecked merely by the physical impossibility of lighting a
gasburner where there was none to light, and not by the interfer-
ence of inconsistent mental elements. Such phenomena are famil-
iar to us all, but we rarely take pains to analyze them in detail,
otherwise the precisely similar phenomena of hypnotic sugges-
tion would not excite so much astonishment.
A large proportion of our acts are thus suggested by sense-
impressions. Another large proportion is under the direct con-
trol of thoughts almost as simple, but the guiding thought is
often so faint and phantomlike that it escapes attention. I was
sitting once in a railway train on my way to Philadelphia ; in the
corner in front of me was an umbrella. I lifted my right hand,
extended it, then let it fall. When I say that " I " did this I am
not speaking with precision. " I " was at the time occupied with
an entirely different train of thought, and the lifting and drop-
