644 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ping of my hand struck " me " as something so strange that I fell
to looking about in the dark nooks and crannies of my mind to
find the culprit thought. Fortunately, I was in time. I had been
looking out of the window, and the lowering clouds had suggested
rain, walking the streets, getting wet ; my hand reached out for
the umbrella with some dim notion of taking off its cover and
making ready for the rain. Then arose a vague, unformed
thought which, if it had become articulate, would have taken
some such form as, " Two hours yet before I get there " : the hand
was arrested half extended, and fell. The whole of this little
comedy was enacted in an out-of-the-way corner of my mind,
while " I," the thinking self, was absorbed in a train of abstract
thought, and probably both the actors would have escaped notice
and been straightway forgotten had it not been for the inconsist-
ency of their motor results.
Every object of perception and thought is a center of innumer-
able diverging suggestions. Not all of these are of equal strength,
and the manner in which any given object will affect a given indi-
vidual will vary with his education, his habits, and his present
mood. Many physical objects have, besides the lines of motor
suggestion which they share with others, certain special lines
peculiar to themselves. Of these perhaps the most important is
the use of the object. Thus, of all the things which I could
possibly do with a dagger, stabbing is to me by far the most
attractive, and I find it very attractive indeed. I can not handle
a dagger without feeling a marked propensity to strike the point
into anything that comes handy. Many other objects are simi-
larly suggestive. A gentleman, while visiting a friend of mine,
was asked to examine a fine rifle which his friend had recent-
ly acquired. He loaded it, poised it, lifted it to his shoulder,
took aim, remarking in a joking tone, " Suppose I fire ? " " Do,"
said his friend and he did. Happily, the ball contented itself
with plowing its way through a cherry bookcase and four or
five books, and no lives were lost. When asked why he did such
a reckless thing, he could only say that he did not know he did
not intend to do it. To my mind there is nothing surprising
about it. The rifle, to a man fond of shooting but without much
experience, is instinct with dangerous suggestions. Ordinarily
the immensely preponderating mass of inhibiting ideas keeps
even the most reckless well within the danger line. But when
the rifle was loaded, cocked, and aimed, and the finger on the
trigger, a great mass of ideal and sensational suggestions were
excited to the highest pitch and all converged upon the delicate
muscles of the forefinger. Still, the inhibitory suggestions of
time and place would, under most circumstances, have been suffi-
cient to counteract all these ; probably the command, " Do," re- en-
