NORMAL AND HEIGHTENED SUGGESTIBILITY. 647
mind without running the risk of encountering a mass of ideas
which either are antagonistic to it or overcome it by sheer weight
of numbers. Furthermore, most persons who closely watch their
mental life can detect in it that at present mysterious activity of
the " self " to which I alluded in my first article. We must con-
ceive it as in some way originated by and dependent upon our
past experience, and in it we see, as I have elsewhere expressed it,
the present conscious representative of the net resultant of our
past experience, brought to bear upon the nascent mental state.
Its function in our life may be compared to that of the rudder on
the ship : it serves to hold us steadily to the course already laid
out, and makes our present and our future symmetrical with our
past.
It is evident, then, that, if we would restore primitive suggest-
ibility in an adult, we must either break up the consciousness of
self, or weaken its power of control. If we can do that, we have
removed from the path of the suggested state the most formi-
dable possible impediment to. its free progress and development.
But to give it full liberty we must abolish or enfeeble all other
sensations and ideas as well. These would be, from the psycho-
logical point of view, the conditions of heightened suggestibility.
In many cases it is, unfortunately, impossible to get any evi-
dence as to the mental condition of the patient, but such evidence
as we have goes to support this hypothesis. The hypnotized
patient, if asked what he is thinking about usually says, " Noth-
ing." Sometimes you find that he is dreaming and will tell his
dreams, but, like other dreams, they are readily guided or dissi-
pated by the least sensory suggestion. In the few cases in which
the patient remembers his experiences upon awaking, he says he
felt drowsy, dull, or weak. One of my patients told me that it
seemed to him as if the motor suggestions I gave him were exe-
cuted by his body, mechanically, without his own concurrence.
He did not feel disposed to resist, but, when he did, he either
found himself helpless, or could overcome the suggestion by the
most strenuous resistance only.
But the suggestibility thus produced differs widely from that
observed in children. The consciousness of the child is so rudi-
mentary in character that complex thoughts can not be awakened
in it by any means ; its suggestibility, therefore, is limited to the
performance of relatively simple acts. But in the complex brain
of the adult, with its myriad ramifications, the range of suggesti-
bility, when once it is established, is far greater and its phenom-
ena more striking. In language we possess an instrument which,
although intangible, is as much physical as an axe, a saw, or a
knife, and with it, as with an adjustable stamp, we can impress
upon the still sensitive brain what modifications we will. Once
