648 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
started, they work out their proper results with almost fatal pre-
cision.
Turning now from the theory underlying these phenomena to
the actual facts, we may say that heightened suggestibility is
found under three chief groups of circumstances. First, it is
found in sleep occasionally, and more frequently in the states
akin to sleep termed hypnotic. Second, it is sometimes found as
one of the symptoms produced by certain drugs. As we suppose
these symptoms to be due to poisons circulating in the blood, the
type is termed toxaemic suggestibility, from two Greek words
meaning blood poison. In the last place, heightened suggestibil-
ity is found as a spontaneous phenomenon for which no reason
can be given. This is called idiopathic suggestibility.
Of these three forms, hypnotic suggestibility is the best known
and for many reasons the most interesting. Dreams, as I have
already pointed out (February number), are largely due to sug-
gestions given in sleep. A higher degree of suggestibility is
sometimes found in normal sleep. A friend of mine told me that,
when a boy, he had a schoolmate who became highly suggestible
whenever he was slightly disturbed in sleep. Without awaking,
he would become partly conscious and would do everything, no
matter how preposterous, which the mischievous ingenuity of the
boys could suggest. In hypnotic states suggestibility is so con-
stantly found that some propose to regard it as an essential char-
acteristic. Let me give a few illustrations of its varying forms.
T B is a laborer, twenty-three years of age, neurotic, in-
temperate, easily hypnotized. His muscles are entirely at my com-
mand. I can stiffen a finger or an arm by a word so that he can
not bend it. I can even contract one set of muscles while leaving
the opposite set under his control. I bring his hands together,
place the tips of his fingers in contact, and tell him he can not sepa-
rate them. The systems of muscles necessary to hold them together
are strongly innervated, while those that pull them apart are left
under his control; he struggles in vain to part them, and his
struggles are such as could not be easily imitated voluntarily.
I can control his sensations in the same way. I can abolish his
sensations of pain, of touch, of sight, and of hearing. I tell him
he will feel in his right hand what I do to his left ; I then put a
lighted match to his left hand and it remains at rest, while the
right jerks violently about in its eft'orts to escape from the fire.
I tell him he is blind, and he is deaf, and he can hear nothing.
I tell him he can not see or hear such a man, and he acts as if he
were unconscious of his presence. I can create hallucinations of
all the senses also.
The limitations of suggestibility are even more interesting.
R is a college graduate and is now a student of divinity.
