650 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ively directed to a multitude of different objects, with a rapidity
and a lucidity which are truly marvelous. Fear becomes terror ;
courage is developed into rashness which nothing checks ; the
most unfounded doubt or suspicion becomes a certainty. Tlie
mind has a tendency to exaggerate everything." So, also, De
Quincey, of the effects of opium : " Whatsoever I happened to call
up and trace by a voluntary act upon the darkness, was very apt
to transfer itself to my dreams. Whatsoever things I did but
think of in the darkness, immediately shaped themselves into
phantoms of the eye ; and, by a process apparently no less inevi-
table, when once thus traced in faint and visionary colors, like
writings in sympathetic ink, they were drawn out, by the fierce
chemistry of my dreams, into insufferable splendor that fretted
my heart." In the delirium of fever and in the coma of ether
and nitrous oxide suggestibility is sometimes noted, but it is not
a common phenomenon, and more information is much needed.
Idiopathic suggestibility has been reported by many observers,
but I shall limit myself to the description of one case which has
fallen within my own ken. Florrie is a little girl aged twelve.
Her father is a blacksmith in good health but not robust. Her
mother is a work-worn woman, slow of speech and slower of wit,
and is easily hypnotized. Florrie is a quiet child, has suffered
from frequent and violent headaches, and is very forgetful. In
all other respects she is quite normal. She was hypnotized some
time ago by a traveling showman. Of her condition before that
time there is no record, but since then she has been markedly sug-
gestible. A command forcibly uttered, once, twice, or thrice, is
sufficient to displace her upper consciousness and throw her into
a dreamlike state in which she executes nearly all suggestions.
A typical experience with her will serve as an illustration. I had
been lecturing in an amphitheater crowded with students, and she
had been waiting outside. The patients I had already shown
aroused a great deal of laughter, and when I went for her I found
her panic-stricken, sobbing bitterly : she would not go, no, she
would not go before all those men she was afraid. I said to her
in a low tone : " Florrie, of whom are you afraid ? Are you afraid
of me ?" " No." " Of your mother ? " " No." " Well, there is
no one else here." After much persuasion I got her to look out.
" There," said I, triumphantly, pointing to a crowd of physicians
and nurses, " don't you see that bare wall ? There is no one here
but us three." Her tears were dried at once. I led her into the
amphitheater and said, pointing to the rows upon rows of men,
" Don't you see, Florrie, there is nothing here but empty benches
and ourselves ? " She saw nothing save what I told her to see,
was perfectly cheerful and happy, entirely at her ease, and abso-
lutely subject to my commands. She seemed to be quite normal.
