NORMAL AND HEIGHTENED SUGGESTIBILITY. 651
and she acted out the dreams I suggested to her with a grace that
any actress might envy. I tokl her there was a plate of strawber-
ries on the table. " Oh," said she, " what beautiful berries ! May
I have one ? " She began eating them, and took the stem off each
imaginary berry with a precision that almost made an observer
believe that his own eyes were at fault, and that the berries were
really there. " Are they sweet ? " said I. " Oh, yes." " Rather
odd, in February, isn't it ? " said I. " I would have thought they
would be sour." As she ate the next berry she made a wry face.
" Dear me ! " she said, " it is as sour as sour can be." At another
time I told her I had two bouquets for her, and wished her to
choose the one she liked best. I gave her with my right hand a
real bouquet with my left, nothing. She took both, smelled each
in turn, exclaimed over their beauty, and finally returned to me
the real bouquet, saying the other was much the prettier.
I might cover pages with such illustrations, but one is as
instructive as a thousand could be. This child was not " hypno-
tized," yet she was in a " secondary state " or dream. I was never
able to determine precisely how much of the real, visible, tangible
world entered into her dreams apart from what I deliberately sug-
gested to her to see, but my impression was she saw and felt as
the rest of us do unless my suggestions were inconsistent with the
testimony of her senses in that case the suggestion triumphed.
The suggested dreams were remarkably permanent. If she were
told there was a parrot or cat in the room, she would continue to
see it until it was abolished in the same way. Once or twice she
refused suggestions that I gave her. For example, when I told
her she was a princess, she acted the part very well ; but when I
told her she was a horse and was pulling a cart, she said she was
not, and no amount of insistence on my part could make her see
that cart. Once I tried to "hypnotize" her i. e., I told her I
would put her to sleep and she went to sleep so soundly that I
had great ado to get her awake again. So also after suggesting
dreams to her, it was not possible to restore her at once to her
normal condition, although if left to herself she slowly returned
to it. I always took pains to abolish all the hallucinations I had
given her, and she would then seem quite normal, but upon ques-
tioning her afterward I always found that her memory did not
begin until perhaps a half hour after she had left me, and the
attempt to elicit recollections of the forgotten period by leading
questions always resulted in throwing her into a similar second-
ary state. Yet there was no connection between her secondary
states ; in one she never recollected what had happened in another,
and no suggestion could make her remember. Nor was I ever
able to produce posthypnotic suggestions, although I frequently
tried to do so. I wished very much to relieve her headaches in
