652 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
this way, but could produce no effect upon them whatever. In
other words, she failed to present many of the most characteristic
phenomena of hypnosis. I think, perhaps, I should say that my
attention was called to this little girl's case by her physician, and
although in all the experiments that we made upon her we kept a
sharp lookout for any indication of evil results, we were never
able to detect any. Her waking dreams did not seem to be more
injurious than other dreams.
One may justly ask how one can guard against simulation in
such cases. I do not think the possibility can be altogether ex-
cluded, and in this case I was at first very suspicious. But after a
good deal of careful observation one forms a pretty clear opinion,
based upon many slight indications. My chief reason for thinking
that the phenomena in her case were genuine was that taken as a
whole they differed widely from the type of hypnosis she had
seen in the public shows she had attended, which would naturally
have given the model for her to imitate, and agreed very closely
with rare cases reported by other observers.
--
THE COMING OF THE RAINS IN GUIANA.
By JAMES EODWAY.
WE are n earing the end of November, and the rains have
come. For three months no more than one or two pass-
ing showers have fallen, and every tree and shrub in our gar-
dens has done its best to accommodate itself to the changed con-
ditions. During the rains of May, June, and July they grew
rampant, the climbers extending themselves in every direction
for long distances. Then came a severe check. The burning sun
poured down on the parched earth at the beginning of September
and caused most of the trees to flag and hang limp. Some of the
more delicate plants in the garden had their leaves burned at the
edges and for a time they looked unsightly. Some commenced
to drop their leaves preparatory to a partial rest, but these were
few ; the majority braced up, as it were, and soon adapted them-
selves to the altered situation. The change was characterized at
first by a wealth of flowers, but these quickly disappeared, until
hardly a blossom could be seen. As the foliage grew less dense,
the young fruit became conspicuous, and very soon guavas began
to ripen and mangoes to set. Now also the mammee apple, which
matures its fruit only once a year, felt the influence of the sun
and came to perfection.
As month after month passed, the leaves fell until the canopy
was almost bare, and in one or two cases toward the end of the
