THE COMING OF THE RAINS IN GUIANA. 653
dry weather the trees became denuded for a few days, or, in the
case of the fiddlewood and silk cotton tree, several weeks. Those
trees which never become quite bare dropped leaf after leaf until
when the proper time came the young foliage pushed off the few
leaves that remained and took their place.
Now comes the rain. The heat has been more oppressive than
usual, and the sun is often obscured by thick clouds. Distant
thunder is heard, and to the west and south the black clouds are
lowering. Now and again great splashes of rain fall suddenly
and as suddenly cease. Walking along a straight road, you see a
mist apparently rising half a mile away, and when you come to
the spot find that the rain has well soaked the road for a short
distance. Then you may see a similar mist over a cane field, and
notice that it is rolling steadily toward you. Listening, you hear
a clattering, as if a regiment of cavalry was galloping along the
road, and in a few seconds look for shelter against the big drops.
It comes, wets you to the skin, and passes on up or down the road,
leaving you very uncomfortable, but brightening up the vegeta-
tion and rousing the birds from their siesta.
These are the preliminary skirmishes, as it were. The rains
have not yet come only their vanguard. Presently they will be
down in force to soak the parched earth and make every tree and
shrub rejoice and blossom.
During the drought, animal life has been almost quiescent.
Butterflies, moths, and beetles have been dormant as chrysalids.
The foliage has hardened and lost its luscious taste ; it would be
therefore undesirable that larvae should be hatched at such a time.
Ants have been busy as usual, however ; their nests may be seen
in the dry ground everywhere. Frogs hide themselves in cracks
of the earth or crawl into the mud at the bottom of the almost
dry canals. Spiders, centipeds, scorpions, and cockroaches go
outside the house only to come back when the ground is sodden.
A few flowers come up on the roadsides as the dense thicket of
sour grass becomes less rampant, but toward the end of the
season the parapets look almost bare.
Yesterday a heavy downpour closed the cracks in the dry
ground and flooded some of the ants' nests in the garden. To-
day a regiment of great black ants is marching up the sides of
the open gallery, and here and there one is running over the floor.
Three quarters of an inch long, these creatures look rather
formidable, but they are not vicious, nor is their nip painful.
Out in the garden, however, a swarm of red fire ants is moving
house, and if you happen to tread on the procession the mistake
is very soon brought to your notice by sundry pricks and instil-
lations of venom on your lower extremities. Then there are the
tree ants, who make little nests the size of walnuts and keep
