654 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
flocks and herds of scale insects on the under surfaces of the
leaves. For months their live stock has consisted mainly of hard
scale insects ; now they are busy fostering the young of these and
bringing forward species of a softer nature. Some of these stock-
breeders build their small nests about the roots of plants and thus
escape the flood, while those who nest in the bushes seem to have
gone a step further in their development.
At this time also the small black ants are everywhere. They
come into the rooms and get upon our dining table, even though
its legs are placed in pans of kerosene oil. A chair will provide
a suitable gangway, or they will even run over your clothes as
you sit at dinner. They even get into our beds, and we wake up
at night to find hundreds of these tiny creatures crawling over
us and giving vicious bites here and there. Then the baby cries
in the next room, and its nurse wakes up to find the little pests
running over its face and sucking the moisture from its eyelids.
The child wakes up and rubs the part with his fist, to be rewarded
with sundry bites on his delicate skin. Or perhaps one of them
has got into his ear, and the child screams with all his might ;
then the mother or nurse has much ado with a syringe and oil
before silence is again restored.
Now come the cockroaches. Not that they have ever been
entirely wanting, but as long as the weather was dry they could
hide under heaps of dead leaves or about the roots of trees in the
garden. Routed from these snug quarters, they appear in great
numbers, flying into the open sitting rooms, and perhaps making
a lady scream out with disgust as one of them sprawls on her
dress. Their object is to hide themselves as soon as possible, no
matter where, and female drapery is very convenient. Like the
ants, these stinking creatures invade our bedrooms, and a new-
comer is warned not to sleep with his mouth open, for he might
wake to find one exploring the cavity. Those who have lived in
the tropics for any length of time can hardly escape tasting the
cockroach. Now and then they run over our dishes and leave
their taste and smell behind, while occasionally one gets into the
flour barrel and spoils your cake or pudding. We have seen bits
of their carcasses in our bread, and have had to reject a roll alto-
gether from such a cause.
Now that the ground is well soaked, the wood ants or termites
begin to swarm. They fly for a little while, but quickly get rid
of their wings, to crawl into the chinks and crannies of the floor,
between the covers of books, and in fact everywhere. They litter
the tables with their cast-ofl wings, and if not looked after will
do serious damage in a few days. Furniture is bored with holes,
books are excavated to provide nests, and the very house itself
becomes ultimately little more than a home for wood ants. The
