THE COMING OF THE RAINS IN GUIANA. 657
thousand flowers are wafted from the neighboring gardens, and
the buzz and hum of insect life show that other living things are
attracted by the efforts of the flowers. Yonder is a white con-
volvulus, its flowers showing up against the dark foliage like
little moons. It does not emit any perfume, for its size and color
alone make it conspicuous. Here is an avenue of fiddlewood
trees, the flowers of which can not be seen, but the almost over-
powering odor they emit is quite as effectual as the color of the
convolvulus.
You would like to classify these odors. Some are very grate-
ful, others cloying. There is the jasmin type, which, when ex-
cessively strong, is sickly. Then comes the West Indian mignon-
ette, which is not unpleasant at a distance, but which is almost
nasty in a room. The most grateful to our sense of smell appears
to be an odor in which there is something spicy this never cloys.
On a damp evening all these come at intervals, now as light
zephyrs and anon in overpowering bursts of perfume. Then
there are odors too delicate for appreciation by our gross organs,
which nevertheless attract insects from long distances. As the
flowers open, the visitors appear, to linger round for an hour or
two perhaps in the morning and then vanish until the same time
next day.
Why do particular species of butterflies and moths confine
themselves to one plant ? Our plague, the butterfly above men-
tioned, comes to lay its eggs on or near the AHstolochia, but on
no other plant. A day or two ago we found its larvae on some
seedlings about two inches high, and there is one plant which
vainly attempts to push out new shoots, for as soon as a green
leaf appears it is eaten. But the insect does not always lay its
eggs on the leaves or stalks of the plant, but rather chooses a rail-
ing of the gallery or a portion of the latticework, always, how-
ever, in the immediate neighborhood of the food plant. Is not
this the act of a reasoning being rather than hereditary instinct ?
The effect of the rainfall on our niagnificent vegetation is
wonderful. What immense quantities of water ai^e stored in the
great herbaceous plants of the tropics the banana, maranta,
and the treelike papaw ! All these are softer- wooded than many
of the delicate plants of other climes which grow only to a few
inches above the ground. With such a wealth of light and moist-
ure, ever} thing rises toward the sun. Daisies and primroses would
be smothered ; there is no room for them except up in the trees
among the epiphytes. Your gardens, fields, and even woods are
but miniature representatives of ours only comparable to the
contents of a box of Dutch toys. Grasses often rise above our
heads, and the cousins of your Compositce, become tall shrubs.
There are no BanunculacecB, Primulacece, or Umbelliferfv , and the
VOL. XLVIII. 47
