66o
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
extended, and everywhere were the telltale fragments of shell
and. abalone.
In the space of the present article it is impossible to more than
call attention to a few of the finds made, illustrating the everyday
history of these unknown people. The sand in places was littered
with fragments of stone vessels which had been broken probably
by some vandal. Some of these jars weighed nearly twenty
pounds, others more, and were of all sizes, from small vessels, in-
tended as paint or color jars, to vessels which would hold several
quarts of water. Here were discoidal stones exactly like those
taken from the kitchen middens of Europe, flint arrow and spear
heads, beads of shell and bone, scrapers and awls of bone, and rings
and other ornaments cut from the pearly abalone.
The most interesting fjnd was made in the center of the dune,
where, in sinking a trench, a skeleton was found in so peculiar a
Fig. 8. Musical Instri'jients, Double and Single, Inlaid with Pearl taken from
Sands of San Clemente, by C. F. Holdek, August, 1895.
position that the entire party gathered about and aided in the ex-
cavation. It was lying on its face, the head to the east, the arms
raised over the head as though the man had fallen on his knees, or
had been buried in a bent position. The bones were of a deep tan
color, and about them was not the slightest vestige of clothing.
The sand was carefully worked out, and after an hour's labor the
skeleton was seen in perfect relief against it. Then began the de-
tachment of the bones, each one being taken out separately and
carefully laid aside to dry ; in this way the perfect skeleton was
secured.
Of many skeletons discovered by the writer on these islands,
this was the first with which some of the possessions of the native
had not been buried ; as a rule, mortars and pestles, beads, weap-
ons, and other property of the deceased were buried with him.
When the skeleton was almost exposed, an interesting find
was made about five feet behind it. When first found it was
supposed to be another skeleton, but careful digging with a
