THE ANCIENT ISLANDERS OF CALIFORNIA.
661
Fig,
4. Pearl Or-
naments.
knife in the soft sand soon resulted in the uncovering of three
musical instruments, or flutes, showing that evidently the musi-
cian of the tribe had been discovered. They were the leg bones
of the deer, found on the mainland forty miles away, and wei e
evidently highly treasured by the owner, as they were ornamented
with pearly iridescent plates cut from the haliotis.
The flutes, which are now in Mr. Plumb's collec-
tion at Islip, Long Island, were about eight inches
in length, perforated with four or five finger
holes, while the largest end was covered with
asphaltum, into which was set the square or ob-
long piece of pearl, evidently selected for its
beauty and luster.
These quaint instruments had been placed at
the feet of the body evidently, as they were just
on a level with it. It is not impossible that some
stone vessels had been buried over the skeleton,
as numbers of broken fragments were found here. Near by a
large shell was discovered at the surface filled with shell beads,
and a short distance away a skeleton partly burned, the bones
mixed up among charred wood, fish bones, etc. Beneath it were
several discoidal stones, and a curious object resembling a bell-
clapper, probably a polishing implement of some kind.
The entire region was undoubtedly either a vast burying
ground or had been a village site covered in the intervening
years by the drifting sand that was ever creeping up the
canons.
As to the age of these remains, no estimate could be made, but
everything pointed to an early period in the history of the island,
San Clemente is subjected to winds, has
a poor water supply, and does not pre-
sent the attractive features found at
Santa Catalina, now a famous watering
place. The latter island evidently had
a larger population. During the past
ten years the writer has located at least
twenty ancient town sites or camps on
Santa Catalina, and found stone imple-
ments on many of them, ranging from
mortars and pestles to discoidal stones,
and various objects of stone, wood, shell,
and bone. One location is of especial
interest, being an ancient olla manufac-
tory, where the natives from time immemorial made soapstone
vessels and objects of various kinds. Here are the old olla
marks, showing where the mortars had been broken off; and
Fig. 5.
-Stone Jar from the
Sand Beds.
