66z POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
where the site was originally located the remains of the vessels
were found.
These two islands are virtual archaeological treasure houses
which, when thoroughly examined, will undoubtedly produce
many interesting finds.
ACCLIMATIZATION.
By WILLIAM Z. EIPLEY,
ASSISTANT PEOFESSOB OF SOCIOLOGY AND 3;C<fNOMICS IN THE MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY.
THERE is no question of greater significance for European
civilization than the one which concerns the possibility of its
extension over that major part of the earth which is yet the
home of barbarism or savagery. The rapid increase of the Aryan
populations is more and more forcing it to the forefront as a
great economic problem. No longer is it merely a scientific and
abstract problem of secondary importance as contributory to the
theories of the unity or plurality of the human race.* It has to-
day become a matter of peculiar significance for the present gen-
eration of men, and the old abstractions, which did so much to
confuse its students, are laid aside, f The substantial unity of the
species having become an accepted fact along with the doctrine
of evolution, the migration and consequent acclimatization of the
various branches of the parent stock follow as a matter of course.
The modern problem plainly stated is this : First, can a single
generation of European emigrants live ? and, secondly, living, can
they perpetuate their kind in the equatorial regions of the earth ?
Finally, if the Aryan race is able permanently so to sustain itself,
will it still be able to preserve its peculiar civilization in these
lands ; or must it revert to the barbarian stage of modern slav-
ery of a servile native population, which alone in those climates
can work and live ? An area of fertile lands six times as great
as that cultivated by the people of Europe to-day stands waiting
to absorb its surplus population. J But its point of saturation
* Revue mensuelle de TEcole d'Anthropologie, i, p. 129 ; Virchow, in Verhandlungen der
Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte, 1885, p. 202.
\ The French distinction between " acclimatement " and " acclimatation " is practically
an illustration of these two phases of the question. Vide Bulletin de la Societe d'Anthro-
pologie, Paris, V, p. 781. Our National Department of Agriculture has become so im-
pressed with the importance of this matter that special investigations are being prosecuted,
and a climatological journal is promised.
\ In Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society, January, 1891, p. 27, are maps, re-
produced from a paper by Mr. Ravenstein before the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science at Leeds, of lands open for settlement. Vide also map in Transactions of
the Seventh International Congress of Demography and Hygiene, x, opp. p. 163, of lands im-
