ACCLIMATIZATION. 663
will obviously soon be reached if traders and superintendents of
native labor are the only colonists who can live there. Moreover,
the problem of acclimatization has a great political importance ;
for if any one of these European nations be possessed of a special
physiological immunity in face of the perils of tropical coloniza-
tion, the balance of power may be seriously disturbed. Or a great
menace to the feeble attempts of Europeans to colonize the tropics
may exist in the surpassing aptitude of the great Mongol horde,
wliich is perhaps the most gifted race of all in its power of ac-
commodation to new climatic conditions.* Africa, Polynesia, and
all parts of the earth have now been divided among the na-
tions of Europe. What will they be able to do with them, now
that the explorer has finished his work ? f Because the problem
pertains to the sciences of physiology and of anthropology, in no
wise lessens its concrete importance for the economist and the
statesman.
Before we are in a position to measure even approximately the
influence of a change of climate upon the human body and its
functions, a number of subordinate confusing factors must be
eliminated. Neglect to observe this rule vitiates much of the tes-
timony of observers in the field. In the first place, a change of
residence in itself always tends to upset the regular habits of the
soldier or the colonist. The temperate youth in England becomes
a heavy drinker in the barracks of India ; and the Portuguese
and Spanish races, predisposed to the use of light wines ready
even to give up the habit if need be sufi^er from the disorders in-
cident to alcoholism far less than the English. J Inflammation of
the liver is indigenous to the tropics ; and yet the ofttimes six-
fold deadliness of hepatitis among English soldiers in India, com-
pared with the mortality among the native troops from the same
disease, is probably due more to the consumption of alcoholic
drinks than to the influence of the climate.* To this fact is also
possible of colonization by the Teutonic people. In Petermann's Mittheilungen, xxxviii, 1,
]). 8, and Ausland, 1891, p. 481, the present extension of the "plantation" stage of culture
is shown by maps.
* This theme is ably discussed by Prof. Ratzel in Kolonization, Breslau, 1876. It forms
the groundwork of the pessimistic plaint in Pearson's National Life and Character. Vide
also Dilke, Problems of (ireater Britain.
f This was the great question before the International Geographical Congress at London
in August, 1895.
\ Dr. Montano, pp. 428 and 43'7, and St. Vel, p. 41, insist upon the necessity of abstemi-
ousness. Vide also C. Stolz, Das Leben des Europaers in den Tropenltindern, in Mitthei-
lungen der ostschweizerischen geographischen-commerziellen Gesellschaft in St. Gallen,
1888. The abuses of this habit are sympathetically portrayed by Kipling in the Mulvaney
stories.
* Davidson, op. cit., i, p. 455.
