664 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
due a certain immunity of the wives and children of soldiers in
this regard. A moderate amount of alcoholic stimulant undoubt-
edly has a beneficent action.* Dr. Clarke even asserts that light
wine is an indispensable part of a hygienic diet ; f but the abuse
of the drinking habit is a factor in the comparative immunities
of all races in the tropics not to be neglected.
Alcoholism and sexual immorality go hand in hand. Newly
acquired vicious habits, unknown amid the restraints of home
life, would speedily cause physical prostration in any climate.
An engineer in Algeria testifies that " a Sunday will put more
men in the hospital than three days in the hot sun." J One of
the most subtle physiological efl^ects of a tropical climate is a
surexcitation of the sexual organs,* which in the presence of a
native servile and morally undeveloped population often leads to
excesses even at a tender age. || The elimination of this factor be-
comes especially important in dealing with the crossing of races
and the effects of climate upon fecundity. It is invariably true
that the mulatto a social as well as an ethnic hybrid suffers
from a loss of caste which exposes this class to many temptations.
The effect of this upon morbidity can not but be very great in
face of the peculiarly weakened physical resistance."^ Among the
imported and liberated negroes in the West Indies, indeed, im-
morality rises to a climax almost sufficient to outweigh every
other consideration. ^
The influence of national habits in the choice of food is a third
element to be eliminated. One of the immediate effects of a trop-
ical climate is a stimulation of the appetite, | which too often
leads to overindulgence. On the other hand, it seems to be
rather the kind than the quality of food which is the decisive fac-
tor. Dr. Felkin advises an increase in the daily allowance, pro-
vided it be of the right sort. X In this regard the Teutonic nations
are especially handicapped in competition with the Mediterranean
peoples. The English and Germans insist upon their usual allow-
ance of meat, where the Spaniards or Italians are content with
* Science, 1891, p. 3. f Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, xix, p. 75.
X De Quatrefages, The Human Species, p. 236. * Vide Jousset, op. ciL, p. 229.
II Vide interesting letters from Dutcli physicians in the East Indies in Verhandlungen
der Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, 1886, p. 90.
^ Revue d' Anthropologie, second series, v, p. 47.
() Publications of the American Statistical Association, June, 1895, p. 195 seq.
X .lousset, op. eit, p. 211 ; St. Vel, p. 29.
^ The physiological effects of diet are discussed in Proceedings of the British Association
for the Advancement of Science, 1889, p. 787. Vide also Archiv fiir Anthropologie, xxiii,
p. 467. Foster (Elements of Physiology, p. 843) agrees with Dr. Felkin. The caution of the
best authorities in making positive assertions is in sharp contrast with the statements of
Buckle and earlier writers.
