PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS. 49
end of this century. The real danger is that gold will fall so
much as to cause a contraction of credits ; for no one will volun-
tarily give credit in a falling commodity or depreciating money
standard. As the greater part of the world's business is done on
credit, this possibility is most serious. It would be difficult to
borrow large sums on long time for the construction of railways
and other great works if capitalists were convinced that after ten
or twenty years they would receive in full payment of a dollar of
the present value of one hundred cents a dollar of the value of
seventy-five cents.
Probably, however, the world will soon get used to the great
increase in gold production, and cease to pay any attention to it,
as was the case in the Californian period. Now, as then, we may
expect that the vast gold production now going on will result in
a rise of the general price level, in wages, and in the great relief
of the debtor class. Barring the possibility of foolish experi-
ments in currency legislation, which, in spite of much noise in
irresponsible quarters, is but small, we are entering on an era of
great prosperity, where all business will sail along triumphantly
on an ever-rising tide of gold.
--
PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
VII. JUDGE AND LAWYER.
By HEEBERT SPENCER.
IN the preceding division of this work, and more particularly
in 529, it was shown that in early societies such regulation
of conduct as is effected by custom, and afterward by that hard-
ened form of custom called law, originates in the expressed or im-
plied wills of ancestors primarily those of the undistinguished
dead, and secondarily those of the distinguished dead. Regard
for the wishes of deceased relatives greatly influences actions
among ourselves, and it influences them far more among savage
and semi-civilized peoples ; because such peoples think that the
spirits of the deceased are either constantly at hand or occasion-
ally return, and in either case will, if made angry, punish the
survivors by disease or misfortune. When, in the course of so-
cial development, there arise chiefs of unusual power, or con-
quering kings, the belief that their ghosts will wreak terrible ven-
geance on those who disregard their injunctions becomes a still
more potent controlling agency ; so that to regulation of con-
duct by customs inherited from ancestors at large, and ordinarily
enforced by the living ruler, there comes to be added regulation
by the transmitted commands of the dead ruler.
VOL. XLVIII. 4
