J CCLIMA TIZA TION. 667
of which the Japanese share to some extent. Their liability to
consumption seems to be akin to that penchant for alcoholism,
which is lacking among the Chinese because of the national
opium habit.
The negro even in the tropics is especially subject to all affec-
tions of the lungs, a fact which constitutes a serious bar to his
wide extension over what has been designated by Dr. Fuchs the
catarrhal zone, in contradistinction to the dysenteric zone of the
tropics.* The black races have in general less fully developed
chests t and less respiratory power | than the European race.
They perspire less freely,* and their skin is thicker, or at least
more dense, so that oxygenation by the lungs alone is more neces-
sary. They are consequently exceedingly sensitive to atmospheric
changes, and are severely handicapped in any migration for this
reason. || Almost invariably, where the European succumbs to
bilious or intestinal disorders, the negro falls a victim to diseases
of the lungs even in the tropics. An interesting case is instanced ^
of a caravan in Senegal, composed of ninety-five negroes and
ninety Europeans, in which the average mortality for each of the
two contingents was exactly equal for two years. Yet only one
of the whites was affected with disease of the lungs, while five of
the eleven negroes who died succumbed to diseases of this class.
Similar to the effect of change of climate upon the negro in in-
ducing respiratory derangement is the influence exerted by alti-
tude, which will be discussed in another place.
Dr. Ashmead has suggested an interesting reason for the pre-
disposition of the negro for consumption namely, that the broad,
open nostril of the race is unfitted to perform the necessary service
of warming the air before its entrance into the lungs. ^ Leptor-
rhinism, he asserts, is due to natural selection, which has fixed
upon that form of nose as most suitable to the temperate zone ; and
the negro, deprived of this advantage, suffers from disease of the
* Dr. Key, op. cii., has fully discussed this.
f Jousset, p. 85.
\ Ibid., p. 88. The same point is startlingly proved by the statistics of the civil war
in the reports of the Sanitary Commission and of the Provost Marshal General, and in the
recent reports of the Surgeon General of the Army as for 1895.
*Ibid., p. 111.
II Dr. Buchner, in Correspondenzblatt der deutschen Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic,
xviii, p. 17, distinguishes ektocfenen (from the environment, such as malaria) from endogenen
diseases (from within, such as tuberculosis). The white race, he avers, is mosi liable to the
former, the negro to the latter. Certain facts seem to lend slight color to this generaliza-
tion, as, for example, the immunity of the negro from septicaemia. ( Vide example on p.
069 infra.) Spencer notes this peculiarity of primitive peoples in Principles of Sociology,
i, p. 49.
^ Revue d'Anthr9pologie, v, p. 95. Other examples might be multiplied indefinitely.
Science, March 31, 1893.
