668 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
lungs at once he is transferred to that part of the earth. It is not
inconceivable that this may indeed serve as a partial explanation,
but how, then, can we account for the equally open nostril of the
Turanian stock so immune from consumption ? Or how can this
theory be made to square with the predisposition of the Polyne-
sian for the same class of diseases, especially when the leptor-
rhinism of this latter race is taken into account ? * At all events,
this element of race must be reckoned with in every comparison
of the statistics of different localities.
In the geographical distribution of diseases there is no more
uncertain factor than the ethnic peculiarities of syphilis. It can
therefore never be neglected in any project for acclimatization by
crossing with the natives, since its relation to fertility is so impor-
tant. Probably brought by the Aryan race to America f and to
New Guinea, X and by it disseminated in Polynesia, this disease
seems to be as yet unknown in Central Africa to any extent.** In
fact, it dies out naturally in the interior of that continent even
when introduced, while it kills the American aborigines at sight, |1
From this dread disease the Chinese are especially exempt ; for if
contracted, it speedily becomes benign, in marked contrast to the
Japanese, who betray their Malay blood in this respect.^ Every-
where syphilis follows the Malay stock even in crossing with
other races, like the negroid, which by nature is immune, as has
been said. In Madagascar, where five sixths of a certain popula-
tion was infected, Hirsch declares that the Malagasy (negroid)
element is quite free from it, the Hovas (Malay cross) having it
in the severest form, ^
It will at once appear that these ethnic peculiarities of syphi-
lis are of the greatest importance, therefore, since this disease is
likely to prevail among exactly those classes in a colonial popu-
lation where ethnic crossing would be most likely to occur.
Intermixture as a remedy for acclimatization would consequently
be much more difficult of application in the East Indies or in
South America than in Cochin China or the Congo Valley ; for
* The extermination of this race by diseases of this character is suggested by De Quatre-
fages. Vich also Revue d'Anthropologie, new series, i, p. 76 et seq.
t Revue d'Anthropologie, i, p. 76 ; and Hirsch, op. cH., ii, pp. 67 and 74 ; although
denied by Boudin.
\ Revue d'Anthropologie, second series, vi, p. 497.
* Lombard, op. cit., iv, p. 485 ; and Hirsch, ii, p. 77. This immunity has not persisted
in America, however, so that syphilis is frightfully prevalent ; shown, for instance, in med-
ical officers' reports of the Freedman's Bureau, etc.
II Livingstone, Travels, p. 128 ; and Hirsch, ii, p. 82.
^ Revue d'Anthropologie, new series, iv, p. 236 et sc(/. ; Bulletin de la Societe d'Anthro-
pologie, 1867, p. 543 ; and 1881, p. 733.
^ Op. cit., ii, p. 77 ; Revue d'Anthropologie, second series, v, pp. 54 et seq.
