670 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Always, in accounting for such a phenomenon, two factors are to
be considered race and environment. Hence, in our study of cli-
matic circumstances the first must be carefully eliminated before
proceeding to study the second.
Finally, the effects of ethnic intermarriage or crossing must
in every case be taken into account. It is present as a complica-
tion in almost all colonial populations, and is by far the most
subtle and difficult of all eliminations to be made. Notwithstand-
ing the objection that accommodation to climate by intermarriage
is in reality not acclimatization at all, but the formation of an
entirely new type, the two are continually confused ; and crossing
with native stocks is persistently brought forward as a mode and
policy of action. As an element in colonization, and a devious
means of avoiding the necessity of acclimatization, it arises to
complicate the situation. Intermarriage is said to be the secret
of Spanish and Portuguese success ; * in Mexico this has appar-
ently been the case,t as well as in the Philippines. X Dr. Bordier
states that the Spanish and southern French are more prolific
than others in marriage with negroes ; * and concludes that the
only hope for the future of French colonization in Cochin China
lies in such crossing with the natives. || The efficacy of this
remedy is to-day accepted quite generally by anthropologists.
Topinard agrees with Ten Kate that half-breeds resist climatic
changes better than pure whites,^ and other authorities concede
the same. Desmartis has even proposed to inoculate the British
troops in India with Hindu blood as a preventive of tropical dis-
orders. X
Memoirs de PAcademie de Medecine, Paris, xxix, 187S. It formed the basis of an inter-
esting discussion at the meeting of the Association fran9aise pour I'Avancement des Sci-
ences. Vide Bulletin for ISYS, p. S03. Sormani, Chervin, and Lagneau have also treated
of it in their respective publications.
* Revue d' Anthropologic, N. S., iii, p. 265. Dr. Felkin finds the success of south
Europeans in their element of Semitic blood (Scottish Geographical Magazine, ii, p. 652).
f Ibid., V, p. 318.
\ Bulletin of the American Geographical Society, 1883, No. 2.
* Colonisation Scientifique, p. 285. An example is also given in Revue d' Anthropologic,
second series, viii, p. 190.
II Ibid., p. 397.
^ Elements d' Anthropologic, p. 204. The Hudson Bay Company refused for many
years to employ trappers with white wives, partly because they desired to increase the
supply of half-breeds (PoHtical Science Quarterly, ii, p. 139).
I) Proceedings of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, xxix, p. 178.
"Bertillon's principle" is accepted by Landowsky in the Bulletin of the French Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science, 1878, p. 817. In Revue d'Anthropologie, second
series, viii, p. 190, is a statistical account of crossing in Algeria on a meager basis, seeking
to prove that French crosses with natives are more prolific than those with Germans.
X Proceedings of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, 1861, p. 143.
