ACCLIMATIZATION. 671
On the other hand, a cross between races is too often apt to
be a weakling, sharing in the pathological predispositions of each
of its parent stocks, while enjoying but imperfectly their several
immunities, as we have seen.
Mulattoes in any climate are liable to lack vitality, and espe-
cially, unless a continual supply of white blood is kept up, they
tend to degenerate.* Dr. Gould notices this lack of vitality
among mulattoes as very marked in the Union army, f For this
reason intermixture is by many regarded as a doubtful remedy. X
Neither the Malay nor the Japanese mixed races have the vitality
of the Chinese.* Jousset affirms that in many cases crossing in-
creases the liability to attacks of fever. || In Guiana the negroes
thrive, but the mulattoes suffer from the climate.'^ Berenger-
Ferand states that the mulatto in Senegal so far degenerates as
to become infertile after three generations ; ^ and Westermarck,
while acknowledging that many statements of this kind are exag-
gerated, inclines to the view that crossing may be unfavorable to
fertility. % Be this as it may, it is certain that mulattoes are
pathologically intermediate between the white and the negro ;
they rarely have yellow fever, and are less liable to malaria
(paludism) than the Europeans ; and they are not predisposed to
bilious disorders. But they have all the diseases to which the
negro is alone liable namely, elephantiasis leprosy, phthisis, and
even the dreaded sleeping sickness {mat de sommeil).^ Finally,
it may be added that many of the most successful examples of
acclimatization have occurred where there has been a complete
* Dr. S. B. Hunt showed by measurements during the civil war that the brain weight
of the mulatto, with less than half white blood, is below that of the pure negro (Quarterly
Journal of Psychological Medicine, New York, 186*7).
f Military and Anthropological Statistics of American Soldiers, 1869, p. 319.
:]: Dr. Ricoux, in Annales de Demographic, vi, p. 5, says it can never be a permanent
remedy in Algeria. Vide also Revue d'Anthropologie, second series, v, pp. 54, 79. Ibid.,
pp. 85 et seq., contains full details on the relation of the sexes in South America.
Walther (Revue d'Anthropologie, new series, i, p. 76) gives, for example, the following
rates of mortality from cholera in Guadaloupe in 1865 : Chinese, 2-7 per cent ; negro, 3-44 ;
Hindu, 3-87 ; European, 4-31 ; mulatto, 6-32. The particularly high vitality of the Chinese
is as marked as the weakness of the half-breed ; Dr. Brinton (Races and Peoples, p. 284)
corroborates this fully.
* Revue d'Anthropologie, new series, iv, p. 236. Vide also remarks on racial pathology
infra.
II Op. cit., p. 150. Its effects are discussed on pp. 154 et seq,
^ Revue d'Anthropologie, ibid.
^ Parturition is held by Pruner Bey to be peculiarly difficult among hybrids (Etudes sur
le Bassin, p. 13, Paris, 1855). Vide also Revue d'Anthropologie, second series, ii, p. 577,
and Posche, Die Arier, p. 10. '
:J History of Human Marriage, pp. 284, 287.
^ Bordier, Colonisation Scientifique, p. 285, and Berenger-Ferand, op. cit. ; also Revue
d'Anthropologie, new series, v, p. 30.
