672 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
absence of crossing, as among the Jews * in the Bourbon Islands, f
with the Boers in South Africa, J and in many parts of South
America.*
The physical elements of climate, ranged in the order of their
importance, are humidity, heat, and lack of variety.
Heat by itself, when unaccompanied by excessive humidity,
does not seriously affect human health except when unduly ex-
tended. I The ranges of temperature to which the human body
may become accustomed are very broad, so that the limitations
to the dispersion of the race seem to be set by the food supply
rather than the degree of heat or cold."^ All authorities agree,
therefore, that the regions where acclimatization is most difficult
are to be found in the areas of excessive humidity, or, roughly,
where there is the maximum rainfall. ^ For this reason the suc-
cessful examples adduced in favor of the view that acclimatiza-
tion in the tropics is possible, should always be examined in the
light of this consideration.
A traveler in northern Africa has noted this in his observa-
tion, that " where there is water and something can grow, there
the climate is murderous ; where the climate is healthy, there is
no water and nothing can grow." % In this sense, the boasted
acclimatization of the French in Algeria is merely accommoda-
tion to one element of climate, after all. With this limitation it
will be generally conceded that the success of the French in their
African possessions along the Mediterranean is assured. % The
mortality of soldiers and sailors in Algeria was seventy-seven
* The Jews prosper in South America (Moutano, p. 445) and in Egypt (V^erhandhmgen
der Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, 1885, p. 258), and elsewhere (Jousset, p. 292);
while even in the uttermost parts of Russia they increase faster than the natives (Wallace,
op. cit.). Their cosmopolitan character, first pointed out by Boudin, is generally accepted
by anthropologists (Revue d' Anthropologie, new series, i, p. 76). Dr. Felkm suggests that
Semitic blood always helps in acclimatization (Scottish Geographical Magazine, vi, p. 662).
f Quatrefages, p, 236.
\ Wallace, op. cit.
* Ibid.
II Jousset, p. 37 ; Ratzel, Anthropo-geographie, i, p. 308 ; Virchow in Verhandlungen
der Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, 1885, p. 208.
^ Ratzel, op. cit.., p. 300, traces out the climatic limits of human life in detail. Vide
also Science, January 27, 1893.
^ A comparison of Hahn's map of the extension of the plantation system in Petermann,
Geographische Mittheilungen, xxxviii. No. 1, p. 8, with a map of the distribution of rain-
fall m Berghaus's Physicalischer Hand Atlas will illustrate this relation.
;|; Quoted from a scathing article by Max Nordau, Rabies Africana, in Asiatic Quar-
terly Review, second series, ii, p. 76.
X General references are Berthelon, " De la Vitalite dos Races du Nord dans les Pays
chauds," and the statistics given by M. Bertherand (Paris, 1882). Vide also Landowsky
in Bulletin de 1' Association fran9aise pour I'Avancement des Sciences, Paris, 1878, p. 817.
