A CCLIMA TIZA TION. 673
'pro mille from 1837 to 1848, so that Boudin, Kertillon, and Knox
doubted if the French could ever colonize there. At the present
time the birth-rate even exceeds that in France itself ; * and the
death-rate is but little above the normal, f In Tunis also the
birth-rate was 35'6 j^^o tnille in 1890-'92, greatly exceeding the
ruling death-rate of 257 per thousand, X In America it is in the
uplands of Mexico, Peru, and Bolivia, or along the arid coast of
the Pacific, and not in the real tropical climate of Brazil, where
the Spaniards have succeeded most fully. They have also done
well in Cuba, to be sure, but the cases are entirely dissimilar.
And to reason, from the French success in Algeria, that the same
would ensue in the Congo basin, in Madagascar, or in Cochin China
is totally to misconceive the real limitations of a tropical climate.**
The relative difficulties to be encountered in these several cases
may be roughly indicated by the mortality of soldiers. In Cochin
China it is almost exactly double that in Tunis ; || and this is,
roughly speaking, a measure of the difference between a mere
torrid climate as distinguished from one which is very humid as
well as hot, for humidity means that malaria is superadded to all
the other difficulties inherent in climate alone.
The heat in a tropical climate becomes important but indi-
rectly, because it is the cause of humidity and generally accom-
panies it. In the temperate regions humidity goes with cool
weather except in the dog days, while within the tropics heat
prevails just when radiation through perspiration is most retard-
ed by moisture in the atmosphere. This, in combination with the
enforced lack of exercise and its attendant excretion, forms the
double cause of physiologic disturbances. The blood is not prop-
erly purified and aneemia ensues, if the more immediate effects do
. not manifest themselves in intestinal disorders.
Everything which conduces to give a variety to the climate of
the tropics affords relief. The alternating sea and land breezes
of islands make them more amenable to European civilization."^
Especially when these islands are volcanic or mountainous is the
strength of these tempering elements increased. This, in fact, is
* Levasseur, La Population fran^aise, iii, p. 43 ; and De Quatrefages, p. 229.
f Revue d'Anthropologie, third series, iv, p. 3-46.
:}: Etude statistique sur la Colonie de Tunisie, Tunis, 1894 ; reviewed in L'Anthropologie,
V, p. 731.
* Vide Ravenstein in Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society, January, 1891, pp.
30 et seq. Dr. Felkin has not always been clear on this (Scottish Geographical Magazine, ii,
p. 649). Refrigeration may do something as a palliative, but it deals with the lesser
factor. Vide address by President Gallon before the Anthropological Institute, London,
188*7.
II Revue d'Anthropologie, third series, iv, p. 346.
^ Vide Jousset, p. 50.
VOL XLVIII. 48
