674 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the only alleviating circumstance in Jamaica, where the fierce
sea breezes by day, reversing at night, have made life for the
English possible. Singapore owes its prosperity to the fact that
it is the only place in the East Indies where malaria is com-
pletely unknown. Similarlj^, wherever there are alternating sea-
sons of heat and cold, the chance of acclimatization becomes
greater.* Hence one advantage of the climate of plateaus in the
tropics, since both daily and seasonal variations are very great.
Even in the major part of the African plateau, however, the ele-
vation can not overset the monotony of the tropical climate, the
seasonal variations ranging much lower than ours, while the
mean temperature is fifty per cent higher. f
Altitude, while giving at least temporary relief to the white
race, % seems to exert a peculiarly baneful effect upon the negro
and the Indian. Dr. Spruce gives an interesting example* of
great economic distress produced by it in South America. Coffee
grows in the zone from four thousand to six thousand feet, and
the demand for native labor is very great. Indians coming from
above die of dysentery, while if they come from the coast they
succumb to respiratory diseases, so that the planters are severely
hampered. It is said in our Southern States that the negro can
not go from the hill country to the plains without great physio-
logic disturbance. | Jousset declares that the elevation of three
thousand to forty-five hundred feet proves fatal to the negro in
Africa.^ This, of course, is due in part to the greater sensitiveness
of all primitive peoples to climatic changes, and partly due to lack
of hygiene. But that the negro by nature really lacks a power of
accommodation, even in the tropics, in this respect is conceded by
most observers ; for by change of habitat he loses the immuni-
* Jousset, p. 62. An interesting table to illustrate this in Cuba is given from Ramon de la
Segra in Revue d'Anthropologie, new series, i, p. 76 (although the relief in winter to the
white, becomes correspondingly fatal to the negro). Lombard's Atlas, Maps 2 and 3, shows
the effect of seasons in Europe.
f This was fully discussed in the Proceedings of the Seventh International Congress of
Demography and Hygiene, p. 155, in London. Drs. Felkin and Markham took a hopeful
view of the Central African region. Ravenstein declared Matabeleland alone to satisfy
the conditions (Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society, January, 1891, p. 81).
Jousset, p. 341, asserts that an elevation of three thousand to forty-five hundred feet will
make acclimatization everywhere possible in the tropics.
\ Jousset, p. 57, as well as p. 434. Vide also Dr. Montano, p. 434. Topiuard, Anthro-
pologic, p. 392, analyzes Bertillon's views in this regard.
* Wallace, op. cit.
II An interesting letter in the Nation, October 12, 1893. Vide also Revue d'Anthro-
pologie, new series, v, p. 30.
^ Op. cit, p. 341.
Vide discussion in the Bulletin de la Societe d'Anthropologie, i, p. 528 ; Hunt, op. cit.,
p. 131 ; Jousset, p. 148 ; Ratzel, i, p. 304. Cf. the case of Apaches in Alabama given in the
Publications of the American Statistical Society, September, 1893.
