678 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the mind, the ability to exercise which keenly and readily was
the thing most to be coveted in life, it was a natural result that
mathematics should have formed the backbone of school studies.
And since we are still in that period when reasoning is regarded
by most people as the highest attribute of man, we of necessity
must have arithmetic as the most important subject in the ele-
mentary school curriculum.
It will not be possible within the limits imposed upon us here
to examine in detail the theories of this " faculty " psychology : it
will suffice to say, although perhaps in a dogmatic manner, that
in our own day students of the mind are breaking away from
these old notions, and establishing what seems to be a much more
rational and simple system of psychology; and following upon
this there must come a different appraisal of educational materi-
als, and a consequent change in the subjects taught in our schools.
To be very brief, one important general conception of modern
educational psychology is that the mind is a unit, and develops as
a unity. As an inference from this it can be seen that the material
of instruction in the school must be chosen with a view to train
the whole individual his perceiving, remembering, imagining,
judging, and reasoning faculties, so called, and not any one of
them singled out from all the others. And not only must this
material train one intellectually as a unity, but it must affect him
emotionally and volitionally as well that is, it must develop
character. We have had in the past, as every one knows, a kind
of educational philosophy which declared that there should be
one subject to train one faculty, another subject another faculty,
and so on throughout the list of faculties and subjects ; and there
should also and particularly be special material to cultivate the
emotions and furnish proper incentives to the will. The error of
this sort of thing must be plainly apparent to any one who will
study the problem concretely, by observing and interpreting the
activities of his own mind, and looking into the various types of
mind in his environment. If one will become introspective for a
little time he will see that his perceptions are not divorced from
his memory and reason along the lines that he is perceiving ; and
he will also discover that what he perceives, remembers, or re-
flects upon has its effect upon his emotions and will in leading
him to some sort of action, immediate or in the future. One
never sees a physician who is keen and ready in his perceptions
of things relating to the practice of medicine who can not and
does not remember, reason, and imagine equally well in regard to
those matters ; nor is his character, his personality free from the
shaping influences of his system of thought. The same may, of
course, be said of the lawyer, the merchant, or any other type of
individual. The truthful view of the case seems to be that per-
