50 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Hence originates that early conception of law which long con-
tinues with slowly increasing modification, and which, in our
day, still survives in those who hold that Right means " that
which is ordered " firstly, hy a revelation from God, and second-
ly by god-appointed or god-approved kings. For the theological
view implies that governments in general exist by divine permis-
sion, and that their dictates have consequently a divine sanction.
In the absence of a utilitarian justification which only gradually
emerges in the minds of thinking men, there of course exists for
law no other justification than that of being supernaturally de-
rived first of all directly and afterward indirectly.
It follows, therefore, that primitive law, formed out of trans-
mitted injunctions, partly of ancestry at large and partly of the
distinguished ancestor or deceased ruler, comes usually to be
enunciated by those who were in contact with the ruler those
who, first of all as attendants communicated his commands to his
subjects, and who afterward, ministering to his apotheosized
ghost, became (some of them) his priests. Naturally these last,
carrying on the worship of him in successive generations, grow
into exponents of his will ; both as depositories of his original
commands and as mouth-pieces through whom the commands of
his spirit are communicated. By necessity, then, the primitive
priests are distinguished as those who above all others know
what the law is, and as those to whom, therefore, all questions
about transgressions are referred the judges.
In small rude societies judicial systems have not arisen, and
hence there is little evidence. Still we read that among the Gui-
ana Indians the Pe-i-men are at once priests, sorcerers, doctors,
and judges. Concerning the Kalmucks, who are more advanced,
Pallas tells us that the highest judicial council consisted partly
of priests, and also that one of the high-priests of the community
was head-judge.
Though among the semi-civilized Negro races of Africa, theo-
logical development has usually not gone far enough to establish
the cult of a great god or gods, yet among them may be traced the
belief that conduct is to be regulated by the wills of supernatural
beings, who are originally the ghosts of the distinguished dead ;
and in pursuance of this belief the ministrants of such ghosts
come to be the oracles. Thus Lander tells us that " in Badagry
the fetich-priests are the sole judges of the people." Cameron
describes a sitting of Mganga, chief medicine man at Kowt^di.
After the chief's wife had made presents and received replies to
her inquiries others inquired.
Questions were " put by the public, some of which were quickly disposed
of, while others evidently raised knotty points, resulting in much gesticula-
