EDUCATION IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL. (>-]()
ception, memory, imagination, and reasoning are phases of one
process, and they can not be separated from each other except
by logical procedure ; nor can the intellect be considered apart
from the emotions and will. There is no virtue either in this
separation except for the mere purpose of analysis, for in daily
life these faculties are never divorced in their activities from
each other ; and in training the individual in school, educational
psychology declares it to be a serious mistake to try to separate
one faculty from the others and train it by the use of some special
material.
The workings of this old analytic and analogical psychology
are especially apparent in its teaching that the exercise of the
mind in any direction generates a capacity which may be used
equally well in all directions. The very statement of this doctrine
would seem to show its falsity, but yet belief in it has practically
determined the subjects taught in our schools for the last three
centuries. No one, upon reflection, would maintain that an ex-
tended study of mathematics would prepare a man for the practice
of medicine so well as would the special study of physiology and
the effect of medicinal agencies upon the human system. Nor
would such mathematical discipline be the very best thing to pre-
pare for the profession of law, or theology, or any other business
which does not directly call into play a large body of mathemat-
ical knowledge. Common-sense philosophy long ago concluded,
and thoroughly believes now, that one who is to be engaged in
the practice of some art should wisely acquire all the knowledge
possible relating thereto ; and it esteems this of far greater ac-
count than to be concerned in getting some foreign matter for the
sake of whatever discipline this will give. Thus one who is to
become an architect could spend his time to greater advantage in
familiarizing himself with those things that relate to the success-
ful conduct of his business, than he could to study profoundly
into chemistry, botany, or theology in the belief that the general
power gained by such mental gymnastics would make him more
expert in architectural matters ; and the illustration may be mul-
tiplied at pleasure.
To carry our point a step further, it must be obvious to any
one who has thought about the matter that what an individual
studies, and what he thereby gets to know, determines almost en-
tirely what he can get to know in the future ; not along general
lines either, but in special directions. The mathematician, for
example, is enabled by the abundance of his learning in geometry
and calculus to appreciate and interpret further mathematical
facts ; but he is by no means empowered, by virtue of his mathe-
matics merely, to be a competent or appreciative judge of histor-
ical, legal, psychological, or linguistic matters. It has become a
