68o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
truism in the public mind that a mere specialist grows more nar-
row every day of his life, and there seems to be plenty of evidence
in one's environment to give rise to such speculation. The argu-
ment in favor of liberal culture before a man takes up his spe-
cialty is based upon a recognition of the fact that knowledge of
one kind only predetermines a man to be able to appreciate and
interpret things of a similar nature, and these merely. There are
two reasons for this, as one can readily see from a little study of
humanity around him. In the first place, what a man knows
determines what he is interested in ; and common-sense philosophy
has often declared that people are essentially selfish, because they
are interested only in their own kinds of business, their own pur-
suits, their own specialties, and they lack that many-sided interest
which is necessary for any title to unselfishness. The lawyer feels
little interest in what the medical fraternity are doing, and per-
haps will never be seen at a medical lecture ; the scholar, pure
and simple, troubles himself little about questions of government,
and is a very insignificant warrior indeed in the political camp.
The mechanic reads theology or listens to a theological sermon
with the greatest difficulty. But each of these types has the deep-
est interest for readings, lectures, and everything else that relate
to his own specialty, or to the thing he is most familiar with. It
sometimes happens, it is true, that a poet may be interested in
psychology or theology, but this is the case only when he is
already well versed upon these subjects ; and other apparent
exceptions to the general rule may probably be explained in the
same way.
The second point in proof of this law, that what one knows
determines what he can get to know, is that, psychologically
speaking, ideas create the ability to appreciate and interpret other
ideas of a similar nature. This also may be abundantly illus-
trated by the circumstances of daily life. A man very widely
read in history may be unable to understand a lecture upon
biology, mechanics, or any subject unrelated to history. The
general power which he has accumulated in his historical re-
searches can not be applied to the ready and easy mastery of all
sorts of things, as the old psychology stoutly maintained. Again,
one who has pursued mathematical studies to great length is
not thereby qualified to become a statesman ; the power which
may be generated by the study of mathematics is not transferable
immediately to the solution of social problems. Educational
psychology, then, may be said to declare in a very broad way
that ideas create capacity for the reception of ideas of similar
kind, but that there is practically no such thing as the acquisition
of general power by the mastery of special subject-matter. In
explanation of this practically, it should be said that any kind of
