EDUCATION IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL. 681
intellectual activity, no matter what it be, tends to create habits
that may be carried into all kinds of study or business. One who
has patiently, day after day and year after year, solved arith-
metical or algebraic problems in the school, has by such exercise
acquired habits of careful reflection and weighing of evidence
that will lead him to dwell with somewhat the same care upon all
matters that are brought to his attention ; but unless he has suffi-
cient data upon these new matters his reflections, of course, will
come to but little. The practical conclusion is, and the one of im-
portance in education, that study along any line limits excellence
in perceiving, remembering, imagining, or reasoning to matters
along this same line.
Applying this principle to the work of the schoolroom, we see
that no subject should be studied merely for the discipline it may
be supposed to give. The old theory that the school should culti-
vate the senses, the memory, and the reasoning powers of pupils,
means nothing as a matter of pure discipline; in the light of
modern psychology we must understand that the only way to
secure this cultivation is in special directions determined by the
peculiar nature of the material upon which the mind is exercised.
Assuming, then (for it will not be deemed necessary to argue the
matter here), that one ideal of our civilization is to have an indi-
vidual understand himself in relation to his natural environment,
so that he may be able to adapt himself to natural laws and turn
them to the promotion of his own happiness and welfare, it follows
that the study of natural law, the method of adapting one's self to
it, and the industries that are based upon an adequate comprehen-
sion of it, should form an important part of school work ; and it
is some such argument that has introduced Nature-study into
many elementary schools, giving it a prominent place there. In
like manner, if it is desirable for one to be able to adjust himself
in the best way possible to his social environment, he should study
the organization of society, and the ethical and material conditions
upon which his own and others' welfare and advancement depend.
These considerations have been at the bottom of changes in the
school curriculum, and are now at work in the endeavor to intro-
duce still further improvements, as many educators think.
At all events, the old idea of formal discipline is gradually
losing the breath of life, and we can think no better of it than
that the sooner it releases its hold upon those who make school
curricula, the sooner will the material of instruction be more
nearly adapted to prepare the individual for his needs in after
life. Whatever may be said in favor of the study of any branch
for its disciplinary value, because of the good habits which are
formed in its pursuit, may be said with equal force of those sub-
jects which have direct worth in giving the pupil knowledge that
