682 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
will be of service to him outside the schoolroom, for these also
will create habits of attention, reflection, and industry equally-
well. Thus, in the study of history, literature, or science, habits
of careful observation and reflection may be formed with as great
readiness and surety as in the study of algebra, English grammar,
Latin, or Greek. And, moreover, the conditions for accurate ob-
servation and reasoning in science or in the conduct of society
are somewhat different, as every one will admit, from what they
are in Greek, Latin, or arithmetic ; and if the purpose is to lead
the pupil ultimately to observe keenly and accurately and inter-
pret readily and serviceably facts of Nature or the phenomena of
social intercourse, then the more he has to do of this in the school
the more will he become familiar with right methods for future
activity. On the other hand, if the object is to make the pupil
keen in the appreciation of linguistic matters, then, of course, he
must study language ; and we might speak in a similar way of
any special subject.
We have, therefore, this broad conception, that study along
special lines does not create general but only special power.
There follows a second principle of equal importance in deter-
mining the relative value of materials of instruction ; but this,
like the one just considered, has not yet received universal recog-
nition among teachers. It has been maintained from aforetime
that arithmetic, grammar, spelling, and the mechanical side of
reading, writing, and the art subjects should receive particular
attention because of the paramount necessity that the pupil
should be master of these things before he leaves the school, in
order to be able to make any progress in his learning thereafter ;
and there has always accompanied this first argument another,
close of kin, that these branches afford opportunity for excellent
discipline of the mind. Enough has already been said perhaps to
indicate that the idea of pure discipline (or, as Prof. Hinsdale
calls it, "the dogma of formal discipline"*) is not founded upon
good philosophy ; it remains to examine briefly this second posi-
tion which many teachers, with their faces always turned toward
the setting sun, declare with fervor to be impregnable. A survey
of the subjects in the elementary school curriculum will show
that they fall naturally into three great classes, usually styled
(1) the real or content subjects, including history, literature, ge-
ography, and Nature-study or science ; (2) the form or symbolic
subjects, including language, grammar, arithmetic, and the me-
chanical side of reading, writing, music, and art ; (3) the indus-
trial or "psycho-manual" subjects, including manual training,
sewing, and cookery. It has been held hitherto that the elemen-
* Educational Review, September, 1894.
