EDUCATION IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL. 683
tary school should be concerned very little if at all with the real
or content subjects, because these could not be studied with profit
until a considerable body of symbols had been acquired, by the
ready use of which a pupil would be enabled to talk, read, write,
spell, draw, and cipher in the expression of what he gained from
his investigations ; and, moreover, is it not impossible for one to
study history, literature, or science until he has mastered a vocab-
ulary that will enable him to intelligently comprehend what he is
trying to study about ? That is to say, must he not first study
words so that through them as symbols he may finally get to know
about the realities symbolized ? It is doubtless familiar to every
one who has looked into the matter that there has been a revers-
ing of this doctrine in many places of late years, and the aim is
now to acquire familiarity with symbols through the things which
they represent. It has become a truism of modern educational
psychology that a symbol is learned with great difficulty and with
little serviceableness unless it be connected with the thing or
thought it is to symbolize ; it is learned only after great effort,
because, in the first place, it possesses no characteristic in itself
but that of form, and in the case of words and figures very
simple forms at that, which increases the difficulty of mastery.
A mature person looking at the end of a pencil in the endeavor
to fix it in the mind so that it may be identified in the future
from similar pencils, would find the task well-nigh impossible,
although it appears so entirely simple; but if the same effort
be made in remembering a horse, or large and complex object
of any kind, the problem is very much easier, because there are
more evident characteristics to fix the thing in the mind, and by
which it may be identified when it appears there again. Now, in
the case of learning the symbolic subjects in the schoolroom, the
ease of mastery depends upon every word and figure learned being
connected with the thought or thing it symbolizes ; the thought
being previously aroused in the mind, and the symbol fused with
it, as it were. Hence the maxim now frequently heard : First the
thought, then the symbol. Psychological observation has shown
also that the use of a symbol can become automatic in acquiring
or expressing thought (which is the sole ultimate object in the
teaching of the form subjects) only when that symbol has been
connected a great many times in one act of thought with the
thing it represents; and then whenev^er the symbol appears in
the mind the thing symbolized will be automatically suggested.
It is illustrated every day of our lives that when two or more
things are perceived or experienced as connected with each other
in time or space, one being thought of or experienced again, the
other invariably accompanies it in the manner of the original
appearance. Psychology has long recognized that contiguity is
