SKETCH OF WILLIAM STARLING SULLIVANT. 691
and before the introduction of railroads afforded the best accom-
modations and facilities to the traveling public. He was one of
the original stockholders and directors of the Clinton Bank, and
for a time its president.
Mr. Sullivant was not one of those whose predilection for
science appeared at an early age. He was nearly thirty years
old, and his youngest brother, Joseph, was already somewhat
proficient in botany, conchology, and ornithology, before his
interest in natural history was aroused. He had married Miss
Jane, daughter of Alexander K. Marshall, of Kentucky, and niece
of Chief-Justice Marshall, and was living in his suburban resi-
dence in a rich floral district. His wife had died within a year
after marriage, leaving him an infant daughter.
His first scientific observations were upon the birds. When
his attention was directed to botany, by his brother Joseph, he
took up the subject with the determination to acquire a thorough
knowledge of it. " He collected and carefully studied," says Prof.
Gray in the memoir already quoted from,* " the plants of the
central part of Ohio, made neat sketches of the minuter parts of
many of them, especially of the grasses and sedges, entered into
communication with the leading botanists of the country, and in
1840 he published A Catalogue of Plants, Native or Naturalized,
in the Vicinity of Columbus, Ohio (63 pages), to which he added
a few pages of valuable notes. His only other direct publication
in phanerogamous botany is a short article upon three new plants
which he had discovered in that district, contributed to the
American Journal of Science and Arts in the year 1842. The
observations which he continued to make were communicated to
his correspondents and friends, the authors of the Flora of North
America, then in progress.
" As soon as the flowering plants of his district had ceased to
afford him novelty, he turned to the mosses, in which he found
abundant scientific occupation, of a kind well suited to his bent
for patient and close observation, scrupulous accuracy, and nice
discrimination. His first publication in his chosen department,
the Musci Alleghanienses, was accompanied by the specimens
themselves of mosses and hepaticce collected in a botanical ex-
pedition through the Alleghany Mountains from Maryland to
Georgia, in the summer of 1843, the writer of this notice being
his companion. The specimens were not only critically deter-
mined, but exquisitely prepared and mounted, and with letter-
press of great perfection ; the whole forming two quarto volumes,
which well deserve the encomium bestowed by Pritzel in his The-
saurus. It was not put on sale, but fifty copies were distributed
* Read before the National Academy of Sciences, April 22, 18Y5,
