692 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
wifh a free hand among bryologists and others who would appre-
ciate it.
" In 1846 Mr. Sullivant communicated to the American Acad-
emy the first part, and in 1849 the second part, of his Contribu-
tions to the Bryology and Hepaticology of North America, which
appeared one in the third, the other in the fourth volume (new
series) of the academy's Memoirs, each with five plates from the
author's own admirable drawings. These plates were engraved
at his own expense, and were generously given to the academy.
" When the second edition of Gray's Manual of the Botany of
the Northern United States was in preparation, Mr. Sullivant was
asked to contribute to it a compendious account of the musci and
hepaticcB of the region, which he did, in the space of about one hun-
dred pages, generously adding, at his sole charge, eight copper-
plates crowded with illustrations of the details of the genera;
thus enhancing vastly the value of his friend's work, and laying
a foundation for the general study of bryology in the United
States, which then and thus began. So excellent are these illus-
trations, both in plan and execution, that Schimper, then the
leading bryologist of the Old World, and a most competent judge,
since he has published hundreds of figures in his Bryologia Euro-
pcea, not only adopted the same plan in his Synopsis of the Euro-
pean Mosses, but also the very figures themselves (a few of which
were, however, originally his own), whenever they would serve
his purpose, as was the case with most of them.
" A separate edition was published of this portion of the Man-
ual under the title of The Musci and Hepaticse of the United States
East of the Mississippi River (New York, 1856, imperial octavo),
upon thick paper, and with proof impressions directly from the
copperplates. This exquisite volume was placed on sale at far less
than its cost, and copies are now of great rarity and value. It
was with regret that the author of the Manual omitted this cryp-
togamic portion from the ensuing editions, and only with the
understanding that a separate Species Muscorum, or Manual for
the Mosses of the whole United States, should replace it." This
work Mr. Sullivant was about to prepare at the time of his death.
Mr. Sullivant married Miss Eliza G. Wheeler, of New York, a
lady of rare accomplishments, who became a zealous and acute
bryologist, and ably assisted her husband in his scientific work
until her death, of cholera, in 1850 or 1851. Her botanical services
were commemorated by Schimper in the name of the Ohio moss,
Hypnum SulUvaniicB. Two daughters and a son were the fruit of
this marriage.
In 1848 Mr. Sullivant secured the co-operation of the accom-
plished botanist Leo Lesquereux, by whose labors his undertak-
ings were substantially promoted. A characteristic feature of his
