SKETCH OF WILLIAM STARLING SULLIVAN T. 693
scientific work was the issuing of sets of specimens, mounted on
leaves with printed labels, and bound into a volume having a
title-page, index, etc. Specimens had accompanied Mr. Sullivant's
text in the Miisci AUeglianienses, and now, from the ample stores
collected by him and Lesquereux, or otherwise acquired, fifty-six
sets of about three hundred and sixty species each were made up,
and all, except a few copies for gratuitous distribution, were
placed on sale at less than cost, for the benefit of his esteemed
associate. The title of the volume was Musci Boreali Americani
quorum specimina exsiccati ediderunt W. S. Sullivant et L, Les-
quereux ; 1856. The value of the work insured the speedy sale of
the edition. A similar but larger collection, containing between
five and six hundred species, many of them recently gathered
in California by Dr. Bolander, was issued in I860. The sets were
disposed of with the same unequaled liberality as before dis-
played. Still later, Mr. Sullivant aided his friend Mr. Austin
both in the study of his material and in the publication of his
Musci Appalacliiani.
In his Musci Cubenses, which appeared in 1861, Mr. Sullivant
named the species of Charles Wright's earlier acquisitions in Cuba
and described the new ones. These mosses were also distributed
in sets by the collector. His researches upon later and more ex-
tensive collections by Mr. Wright, in which many new species
were indicated, were left in the form of notes and pencil sketches
at his death. The same is true of an earlier collection, made by
Fendler in Venezuela.
Mr. Sullivant was several times called upon to work up the
mosses gathered by Government exploring expeditions. Thus
the Bryology of Rodgers's United States North Pacific Exploring
Expedition was early prepared for publication by him in the
most elaborate manner. But, from causes over which he had no
control, it has never been published, although brief characters of
the principal new species have seen the light. The fact that
Sullivant's exquisite drawings of these species were not promptly
engraved and given to the scientific world is especially to be
regretted.
In the case of the South Pacific Exploring Expedition, under
Commodore Wilkes, the volume on the mosses was not published
in his lifetime, but Mr. Sullivant issued a separate edition of his
portion of it in 1859. It forms a sumptuous imperial folio, the
letterpress having been made up into large pages, and printed on
paper matching that used for the twenty-six plates. The fourth
volume of the Pacific Railroad Reports contains Sullivant's de-
scriptions of the mosses collected in Whipple's Exploration, occu-
pying about a dozen pages, and accompanied by ten admirable
plates of new species.
