694 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The Icones Muscorum, however, is Mr. Sullivant's crowning
work. It was issued in 1864, and consists of " Figures and De-
scriptions of most of those Mosses peculiar to Eastern North
America which have not been heretofore figured," forming an
imperial octavo volume with one hundred and twenty-nine cop-
perplates. "The letterpress and the plates," says Prof. Gray,
" (upon which last alone several thousand dollars and immense
pains were expended) are simply exquisite and wholly unrivaled ;
and the scientific character is acknowledged to be worthy of the
setting." Most of the time which Mr. Sullivant could devote to
science in the last few years of his life was given to the prepara-
tion of a second or supplementary volume of the Icones. The
plates were finished, the descriptions partly written out, and it
was to have been printed in the spring in which he died.
Mr, Sullivant was attacked with pneumonia in January, 1873,
about the time of his seventieth birthday, and, although making
a partial recovery, died from the effects of the disease on April
30th. He had married Caroline E. Sutton, who survived him.
Four sons and two daughters were born to them.
He bequeathed all his bryological books and his exceedingly
rich and important collections and preparations of mosses to the
Gray Herbarium at Harvard University. The rest of his botan-
ical library, his choice microscopes, and other collections, were
left to the State Scientific and Agricultural College, then re-
cently established at Columbus, and to the Starling Medical
College, founded by his uncle, of which he was himself the senior
trustee.
The American Academy of Arts and Sciences elected Mr. Sul-
livant to membership in 1845 ; he was also an associate of the
other chief scientific societies of this country and of several in
Europe. The honorary degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred
upon him by Gambier College, while Torrey and Gray honored
him early by bestowing the name Sullivantia OMonis upon a
rare and modest plant discovered by him in his native State, and
belonging to the same order (saxifrages) with the currant, syringa,
and hydrangea.
For nearly forty years Sullivant corresponded with Asa Gray,
also collecting with him and co-operating in research whenever
practicable. He is often mentioned in Gray's Letters. When
Lesquereux, who had been Gray's curator at Cambridge, left him
to go and assist the Western bryologist. Gray wrote in a letter to
Torrey : " They will do up bryology at a great rate. Lesquereux
says that the collection and library of Sullivant in muscology are
* magnifique, superhe, the best he ever saw.' " Under date of De-
cember 6, 1857, Gray writes to W. J. Hooker : " Your first letter
is now gone to Sullivant, because you speak of him so hand-
