PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS. 697*
PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
XL PAINTER.
By HEEBERT SPENCER.
PICTORIAL representation in its rudest forms not only pre-
cedes civilization but may be traced back to prehistoric man.
The delineations of animals by incised lines on bones, discovered
in the Dordogne and elsewhere, prove this. And certain wall-
paintings found in caves variously distributed, show, in extant
savage races or ancestors of them, some ability to represent things
by lines and colors.
But if we pass over these stray facts, which lie out of relation
to the development of pictorial art during civilization, and if we
start with those beginnings of pictorial art which the uncivilized
transmitted to the early civilized, we see that sculpture and paint-
ing were coeval. For, excluding as not pictorial that painting of
the body by which savages try to make themselves feared or ad-
mired, we find painting first employed in completing the image of
the dead man to be placed on his grave a painting of the carved
image such as served to make it a rude simulacrum. This was
the first step in the evolution of painted figures of apotheosized
chiefs and kings painted statues of heroes and gods.
We shall the better appreciate this truth on remembering that
the complete differentiation of sculpture from painting which now
exists did not exist among early peoples. In ancient times all
statues were colored : the aim being to produce something as like
as possible to the being commemorated.
The already named images of dead New Zealand chiefs tattooed
in imitation of their originals, illustrate primitive attempts to
finish the representations of departed persons by surface-markings
and colors ; and the idols preserved in our museums not painted
only but with imitation eyes and teeth inserted make clear this
original union of the two arts.
Of evidence that the priests painted as well as carved these
effigies, little is furnished by travelers. Bourke writes of the
Apaches : " All charms, idols, talismans, medicine hats, and other
eacred regalia should be made, or at least blessed, by the medi-
cine-men." But while the agency of the primitive priest in idol-
painting must remain but partially proved, we get clear proof of
priestly agency in the production of other colored representa-
tions of religious kinds. Describing certain pictographs in sand,
Mr. Gushing says :
"When, during my first sojourn with the Zuni, I found this art pi'actice
in vogue among the tribal priest-magicians and membei's of cult societies, I
TOL. XLVIII. 49*
