698* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
named it dry or powder painting." The pictures produced "are supposed
to be spiritually shadowed, so to say, or breathed upon by the gods or god-
animals they represent, during the appealing incantations or calls of the
rites. . . . Further light is thrown on this practice of the Zuni in making
use of these suppositively vivified paintings by their kindred practice of
painting not only fetiches of stone, etc., and sometimes of larger idols, then
of washing the paint off for use as above described, but also of poivder
painting in relief; that is, of modeling effigies in sand, sometimes huge in
size, of hero or animal gods, sacramental mountains, etc., powder painting
them in common with the rest of the pictures, and afterward removing the
paint for medicinal or further ceremonial use."
But the clearest evidence is yielded by the Navajo Indians. Dr.
Washington Matthews in a contribution on "The Mountain
Chant, a Navajo Ceremony," says :
" The men who do the greater part of the actual work of painting, under
the guidance of the chanter, have been initiated [four times], but need not
be skilled medicine men or even aspirants to the craft of the shaman. . . .
The pictures are drawn according to an exact system. The shaman is
frequently seen correcting the workmen and making them erase and revise
their work. In certain well-defined instances the ai'tist is allowed to
indulge his individual fancy. This is the case with the gaudy embroidered
pouches which the gods carry at the waist. Within reasonable bounds the
artist may give his god just as handsome a pouch as he wishes. Some parts
of the flgui'es, on the other hand, are measured by palms and spans, and
not a line of the sacred design can be varied," *
Unquestionably then pictorial art in its first stages was occu-
pied with sacred subjects, and the priest, when not himself the
executant, was the director of the executants.
The remains and records of early historic peoples yield evi-
dences having like implications.
As shown already, there existed in America curious transitions
between worshiping the actual dead man and worshiping an eflBgy
* Both great surprise and great satisfaction were given to me by these last sentences.
When setting forth evidence furnished by. the Egyptians, I was about to include a remem-
bered statement (though unable to give the authority), that there are Avall-paintings I
thinli in the tombs of the kings where a superior is represented as correcting the drawings
of subordinates, and was .ibout to suggest that, judging from the intimate relation between
the priesthood and the plastic arts, already iillustrated, this superior was probably a priest.
And here I suddenly came upon a verifying fact supplied by a still earlier stage of culture :
the priest is the director of pictorial representations when he is not the executant. Another
important verification is yielded by these sentences. The essential parts of the representa-
tion are sacred in matter, and rigidly fixed in manner ; but in certain non-essential, decora-
tive parts the working artist is allowed play for his imagination. This tends to confirm the
conclusion already dra^Ti respecting Greek art. For while in a Greek temple the mode of
representing the god was so fixed that change was sacrilege, the artist was allowed some
scope in designing and executing the peripheral parts of the structure. He could exercise
his imagination and skill on the sculptured figures of the pediment and metopes ; and here
his artistic genius developed.
