PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS. 699*
of him cases in wliich a figure was formed of portions of his
body joined with artificial portions. The Nile Valley furnished
other transitions. Concerning the Macrobrian Ethiopians, Herod-
otus tells the strange story that
" When they have dried the body, either as the Eg'vptians do, or in some
other way, they plaster it all over with g-ypsum, and paint it, making it as
much as possible resemble real life ; they then put round it a hollow col-
umn made of crystal."
And to this plastered, painted, and inclosed mummy they made
offerings. The Egyptian usage diverged from this simply in the
casing of the mummy and in the painting: the one being opaque
and the other consequently external. For the carved and painted
representation of a human figure on the outer mummy-case, was
doubtless a conventionally-stereotyped representation of the occu-
pant. And since, in all such cases, the ancestor- worship, now of
private persons, now of major and minor potentates, was a religion,
painting as thus employed was a religious art.
The leading subjects of Egyptian wall-paintings are worshiping
and killing : the last being, indeed, but a form of the first ; since
pictures of victorious fights are either glorifications of the com-
memorated commanders or of the gods by whose aid they con-
quered, or both. In early societies sacrifice of enemies is religious
sacrifice, as shown among the Hebrews by the behavior of Sam-
uel to Agag. Hence the painting in these Egyptian frescoes is
used for sacred purposes.
That in Ancient Egypt the priest was the primitive sculptor
we have already seen ; and the association of painting with sculp-
ture was so close as to imply that he was also the primitive
painter either immediately or by proxy. For, 'seeing that, as
Brugsch remarks, Egyptian art " is bound by fetters which the
artist dared not loosen for fear of clashing with traditional direc-
tions and ancient usage," it results that the priests, being deposi-
taries of the traditions, guided the hands of those who made
painted representations when they did not themselves make them.
But there is direct proof. Erman says : " Under the Old Empire
the high priest of Memphis was regarded as their chief, in fact he
bore the title of * chief leader of the artists,' and really exercised
this office." In another passage describing the administration of
the great temple of Amon he tells us that the Theban god had his
own painters and his own sculptors ; both being under the super-
vision of the second prophet. It may be that, as in the case of the
Indians above named, these working painters had passed through
some religious initiation and were semi-priestly.
In connection with this use of painting for sacred purposes in
Egypt, I may add evidence furnished by an existing religion.
Says Tennent concerning the Buddhists of Ceylon :
