700* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
" The labors of the sculptor and painter were comhined in producing
these images of Buddha, which are always colored in imitation of life, each
tint of his complexion and hair being in religious conformity with divine
authority, and the ceremony of 'painting of the eyes,' is always observed by
devout Buddhists as a solemn festival."
It is interesting to remark that in its mural representations,
Egypt shows "US transitions from sculpture to painting, or, more
strictly, from painted sculpture to painting proper. In the most
sculpturesque kind the painted figures stood out from the general
field and formed a bas-relief. In the intermediate kind, relief -en-
creux, the surfaces of the painted figures did not rise above the
general field, but their outlines were incised and their surfaces
rendered convex. And then, finally, the incising and rounding
being omitted, they became paintings.
By the Greeks also, painting was employed in making finished
representations of the greater or smaller personages worshiped
now the statues in temples and now the figures on stelcB used to
commemorate deceased relatives, which, cut out in relief, were,
we may fairly infer, colored in common with other sculptured fig-
ures, just as were those on Etruscan sarcophagi. Of this inference
there has recently been furnished a justification by the discovery
of certain remains which, while they show the use of color in
these memorials, show also the transition from raised colored fig-
ures to colored figures not raised. Explorations carried on in
Cyprus by Mr. Arthur Smith, of the British Museum, have dis-
closed
*' a series of limestone stelae or tombstones, on which is painted the figure
of the person commemorated. The surface of the limestone is prepared
with a white ground, on which the figure is painted in colors and in a man-
ner which strongly recalls the frescoes of Pompeii."
The painting being here used in aid of ancestor- worship, is in that
sense, religious. Very little evidence seems forthcoming concern-
ing other early uses of painting among the Greeks. We read that
before the Persian war, the application of painting " was almost
limited to the decoration of sacred edifices, and a few other relig-
ious purposes, as coloring or imitating bas-reliefs, and in repre-
sentations of religious rites on vases or otherwise.'' In harmony
with this statement is the following from Winckelmann :
" The reason of the slower growth of painting lies partly in the art itself,
and partly in its use and application. Sculpture promoted the worship of
the gods, and was in its turn promoted by it. But painting had no such
advantage. It was, indeed, consecrated to the gods and temples; and some
few of the latter, as that of Juno at Samos, wei'e Pinacothecae, or picture
galleries ; at Rome, likewise, paintings by the best masters were hung up
in the temple of Peace, that is, in the upper rooms or arches. But paint-
ings do not appear to have been, among the Greelss, an object of holy,
undoubting reverence and adoration."
