702* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The continuance of this connection is shown by the following
passage from Eastlake's History :
"In the practice of the arts of design, as in the few refined pursuits
which were cultivated or allowed during the darker ages, the monks were
long independent of secular assistance. Not only the pictures, but the
stained glass, the gold and silver chalices, the reliquaries, all that belonged
to the decoration and service of the church, were designed, and sometimes
entirely executed by them ; and it was not till the thirteenth and fourteenth
centuries, when the knowledge of the monastery began to be shared by the
world at large, that painting in some degree emerged from this fostering
though rigid tuition."
Along with the practice of paintings went knowledge of the
ancillary art, the preparation of colors. In a later passage East-
lake says :
" Cennini, speaking of the mode of preparing a certain color, says that
the receipt could easily be obtained, 'especially from the friars.'"
In another passage there is implied an early step in seculari-
zation.
"Colors and other materials, when not furnished by monks who re-
tained the ancient habits of the cloister, were provided by the apothecary."
And further steps in the divergence of lay painters from clerical
painters are implied by the statement of Laborde, quoted by
Levasseur, to the effect that the illuminators of the thirteenth
century had for the most part been monks, but that in the four-
teenth and fifteenth laymen competed with them. Various paint-
ers in miniature and oil are mentioned. Painters continued to be
illuminators as well ; they also painted portraits and treated some
sacred subjects.
Throughout early Christian art, devoted exclusively to sacred
subjects, there was rigid adherence to authorized modes of repre-
sentation, as in ancient pagan art Egyptian or Greek. Over
ecclesiastical paintings this control continued into the last cen-
tury ; as in Spain, where, under the title of Pidor Christianus,
there was promulgated a sacro-pictorial law prescribing the com-
position of pictures in detail. Nay, such regulation continues
still. M. Didron, who visited the churches and monasteries of
Greece in 1839, says :
" Ni le temps ni le lieu ne font rien a Tart grec ; au XVIir siecle, le
peintre moreote continue et caique le peintre venitien du X% le peintre
athonite du V ou Vr. Le costume des personnages est pai'tout et en tout
temps le meme, non-seulement pour la forme, mais pour la couleur, mais
pour le dessin, mais jusque pour le nombre et I'epaisseur des plis. On ne
saurait pousser plus loin I'exactitude traditionnelle, I'esclavage du passe."
And Sir Emerson Tennent, a propos of the parallelism between
the rigid code conformed to by the monkish artists of the East
and the code, equally rigid, conformed to by the Buddhists of
Ceylon, quotes an illustrative incident concerning these priest-
