52 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
(prophets and priests) and one lay member, the registrar. But in another
case (Ramses IX) the lay element preponderated.
Which last statement implies a step toward differentiation of
the secular from the sacred in local administration.
To the circumstance that the Greek States did not become
fully united has already been ascribed the fact that the Greek
priesthood never became a hierarchy. Says Thirlwall "the
Greek priests never formed one organized body . . . even within
the same State they were not incorporated." Hence the normal
development of sundry professions is less distinctly to be traced.
Nevertheless the relation between the priestly and the judicial
functions is visible in a rudimentary, if not in a developed, form.
Among the Greeks, as among the Hebrews, it was the habit in
cases of doubt to "inquire of the Lord"; and the oracular utter-
ance embodying the will of a god was made by a priest or priest-
ess. Moreover, the circumstance that Greek laws were called
themistes or utterances of the goddess Themis, as the mouthpiece
of Zeus, shows that among the early Greeks, as among other peo-
ples, a law and a divine fiat were the same thing. That systems
of law were regarded as of supernatural origin, is also evidenced
by the code of Lycurgus. Says Hase : " The origin of his code
was religious. A declaration of the Delphic god contains the
fundamental principles of the measures by which he reconciled
the rival claims" [of the Spartans]. That the non-development
of a legal class out of a priestly class followed from the lack of
development of the priestly class itself, seems in some measure
implied by the following extract from Thirlwall :
" The priestly office in itself involved no civil exemptions or disabilities,
and was not thought to unfit the person who fi.lled it for discharging the
duties of a senator, a judge, or a warrior. . . . But the care of a temple
often required the continual residence and presence of its ministers."
Possibly the rise of priest-lawyers, impeded by this local fixity
and by want of co-operative organization among priests, may
have been also impeded by the independence of the Greek nature ;
which, unlike Oriental natures, did not readily submit to the ex-
tension of sacerdotal control over civil affairs.
How priestly and legal functions were mingled among the early
Romans is shown by the two following extracts from Duruy :
The patricians "held the priesthood and the auspices; they were priests,
augurs, and judges, and they carefully hid from the eyes of the people the
mysterious formulae of public worship and of jurisprudence."
The " servile attachment to legal forms [which characterized the early
Romans] came from the religious character of the law and from the belief
imposed by the doctrine of augury, that the least inadvertence in the
accomplishment of rites was sufficient to alienate the goodwill of the gods."
It seems probable, indeed, that legal procedure consisted in part
of ceremonies originally devotional, by which the god Numa was
