PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS. 703*
painters of Mount Athos, who manufacture pictures to pattern
with. " almost the rapidity of machinery." M. Didron wished to
have a copy of the code of instructions "drawn up under eccle-
siastical authority," but " the artist, when solicited by M. Didron
to sell 'cette bible de son art,' naively refused, on the simple
ground that 'en perdant son Guide, il perdait son art; il perdait
ses yeux et ses mains/ "
Concerning later stages in the rise of the lay painter, it must
suffice to say that from the time of Cimabue, who began to depart
from the rigidlj'' formal style of the priestly Byzantine artists, the
lay element predominated. Amid a number of apparently non-
clerical painters, only a few clerics are named ; as Don Lorenzo,
Fra Giovanni, Fra Philippo Lippi, Fra Bartolommeo. But mean-
while it is to be observed that these secular painters, probably at
first, like the secular sculptors, assistants to the priests in their
work, were occupied mainly and often exclusively with sacred
subjects.
Along with this differentiation of the lay painter from the cler-
ical painter there began a differentiation of lay painters from one
another; and the facts show us a gradual beginning where
imagination would have suggested only an abrupt beginning. As
I learn from an academician, the first form of portrait (omit-
ting some painted under a surviving classic influence in those
earliest days before art was extinguished by the barbarians) was
that of the donor of a sacred picture to a church or other eccle-
siastical edifice, who was allowed to have himself represented
in a corner of the picture on his knees with hands joined in sup-
plication.
Something similar happened with another form of art. Land-
scapes made their first appearance as small and modest back-
grounds to representations of sacred personages and incidents
backgrounds the composition of which displays an artificiality
congruous with that of the figure-composition. In course of time
this background assumed a greater importance, but still it long
remained quite subordinate. After it had ceased to be a mere
accompaniment, landscape-painting in its secularized form was but
partially emancipated from figure-painting. When it grew into a
recognized branch of art, the title " Landscape with figures," was
still generally applicable ; and down to our own day it has been
thought needful to put in some living creatures. Only of late has
landscape pure and simple, absolutely divorced from human life,
become common.
Of course various classes and sub-classes of artists, broadly
if not definitely marked off, are implied by these and other
specialized kinds of paintings : some determined by the natures
