704* POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the subjects treated and others by the natures of the mate-
rials used.
For form's sake it is requisite to say that here as always those
units of a society who make themselves distinct by performing
functions of a certain kind, presently, along with separation from
the rest, begin to unite with one another. The specialized individ-
uals form a specialized aggregate.
When in the Middle Ages the artists employed as assistants to
priests for ecclesiastical decoration became a class, they grew into
something like guilds. Levasseur, quoting Laborde, says they
were hardly distinguished from artisans : like them they formed
corporations under the name of paintres, toAlleurs d'ymaiges et
voirriers. In Italy during the fourteenth century a Brotherhood
of Painters arose, which, taking for its patron St. Luke the Evan-
gelist, had for its purpose, partly mutual instruction and partly
mutual assistance and protection.
That in modern times the tendency to integration has been
illustrated all know. It needs only further to remark that the
growth of the chief art corporations has been followed by the
growth of minor art corporations, some of them specialized by the
kinds of art practiced ; and also that embodiment of the profession
is now aided by art periodicals, and especially by one. The Artist,
devoted to professional culture and interests.
Mention is made in Prof. Frederick Starr's Comparative EeligioB Notes,
in the Biblical World, of the important place in the ceremonials of the
Indian tribes of the Southwest occupied by cvirious pictures or mosaics
made of sand. Different colored sands are procured by jjounding" up the
various kinds of rocks. The designs are made by qualified persons, accord-
ing to a prescribed method, after preparatory purification. Colors and
designs are symbolical. In making them the sand taken in the hand is
allowed to run out between the thumb and forefinger along the lines to be
produced. The practice is found among various pueblo peoples and among
the Navajos ; and notice is made of similar observances among the Hindus
and Parsees ; and sand pictures are made as a street amusement in Japan.
The London Spectator gathers from a number of letters it has received
that "a great many cuhivated people Zz'fce their small superstitions. . . .
Some dislike trusting their reason wholly, because, they think, that way
agnosticism may lie; some feel in their superstitious beliefs an antiquarian
charm, or relation to their forebears; while others appear to have the feel-
ing that, if they cleared the superstitions wholly out, their mental scenery-
would be rendered base and marred by sameness. . . . They do not all put
the question, but all we think are inclined to ask us, as one rather clever
old lady has done, what harm the petty superstitions do ? Why not throw
salt over your shoulder if you spill it ? "
