PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS. 53
to be propitiated, and that the complex symbolic actions used
were superposed. For of the judges, who "sat only on days fixed
by the secret calendar of the pontiffs," it is said that " they did
not admit the litigants to set forth simply the matters in dispute ;
mysterious formulfe, gestures, and actions were necessary." In
further evidence of this priestly character of the judicial admin-
istration is the following statement of Professor W. A. Hunter :
'' Pomponius, in his brief account of the history of Roman Law, informs
us that the custody of the XII Tables, the exclusive knowledge of the
forms of procedure {legis actiones), and the right of interpreting the law,
belonged to the College of Pontiffs."
And Mommsen tells us in other words the same thing.
But while we here see, as we saw in the cases of other early
peoples, that the priest, intimately acquainted with the injunc-
tions of the god, and able to get further intimations of his will,
consequently became the fountain of law, and therefore the judge
respecting breaches of law, we do not find evidence that in ancient
Rome, any more than in Greece, Egypt, or Palestine, the advocate
was of priestly origin. Contrariwise we find evidence that among
these early civilized peoples, as at the present time among some
peoples who have become civilized enough to have legal pro-
cedures, the advocate is of lay origin. Marsdeu says that in
Sumatra
" the plaintiff and defendant usually plead their own cause, but if circum-
stances render them unequal to it, they are allowed to piyijain mulut (bor-
row a mouth). Tbeir advocate may be a proattin^ or other person indif-
ferently ; nor is there any stated compensation for the assistance, though
if the cause be gained, a gratuity is generally given."
So, too, from Parkyns we learn that the Abyssinians have a sort
of lawyers merely " an ordinary man with an extraordinary gift
of the gab. These men are sometimes employed by the disputants
in serious cases, but not invariably." Indeed, it must everywhere
have happened in early stages when litigants usually stated their
respective cases, that sometimes one or other of them asked a
friend to state his case for him ; and a spokesman who became
noted for skill in doing this would be employed by others, and
eventually a present to him would become a fee. It was thus
among the Romans. After knowledge of the Twelve Tables had
been diffused, and after the secrets of legal procedure had been
disclosed by a secretary of Appius Claudius, there grew up a class
of men, the jurisconsulti, learned in the law, who gave their ad-
vice, and also, later, advocates distinguished by their oratorical
powers, who, as among ourselves, were furnished with materials
and suggestions by lawyers of lower grade.
The superposing of civilizations and of religions throughout
Northern Europe after Roman days, complicated the relations
