54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
between religion and law, and between those who administered
them. Nevertheless, the evidence everywhere points to the con-
clusion we have already reached.
Beginning with heathen times there may be put first the facts
which Sir George Dasent gives us respecting the ancient Norse.
He writes :
The priest " was the only civil, just as he was the only religious author-
ity minister and magistrate in one."
" In trials ... it fell on him [the priest! to name the judges, and to
superintend the proceedings."
But it seems that even in those rude days there had come into ex-
istence non-clerical advocates.
*' There were the lawmen or lawyers (logmenn), a class which we shall
find still flourishing in the time of which oui' Saga tells. They were pri-
vate persons, invested with no official character." " They seem to have
been simply law-skilled men, ' counsel ' to whom men in need of advice
betook themselves."
In harmony with these statements are those made by an au-
thority respecting Old-English institutions, Mr. Gomme. He
says
'' We learn from the historians of Saxony that the ' Frey Feldgericht ' of
Corhey was, in pagan times, under the supremacy of the priests of the
Eresburgh."
" There can be little doubt that the church or tem]3le of primitive so-
ciety was the self-same spot as the assembly-place of the people and the
court of justice."
In support of this last conclusion it may be remarked that as in
early times gatherings for worship afforded occasions for trad-
ing, so they also afforded occasions for legal settlements of dis-
putes ; and further that the use of the sacred edifice for this pur-
pose (as among the Babylonians) was congruous with the concep-
tion, everywhere anciently entertained, that legal proceedings
tacitly or avowedly invoked divine interposition tacitly in the
taking of an oath and avowedly in trial by judicial combat.
The conquest of northern heathenism by Christianity gradu-
ally led to subjugation of the heathen system of law by the sys-
tem of law the Church imposed partly its own, the canon law,
and partly that inherited from Roman civilization, the civil
law. The rules of conduct which, transmitted from the heathen
priesthood, had become the common law, were in large meas-
ure overridden by the rules of conduct which the Christian
priesthood either enacted or adopted. In early English days
lay and clerical magnates co-operated in the local courts: laws
derived from the old religion and from the new religion were
jointly enforced.
" The clergy, in particular, as they then engrossed almost every other
branch of learning, so (like their predecessors, the Bi'itish Druids), they
