PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONS. 55
were peculiarly remarkable for their proficiency in the study of the law.
. . . The judges therefore were usually created out of the sacred order, as
was likewise the case among the Normans; and all the inferior offices
were supplied by the lower clergy, which has occasioned their successoi*s
to be denominated clerks to this day."
But with the growth of papal power a change began. As writes
the author just quoted, Stephen
'* It soon became an established maxim in the papal system of policy, that
all ecclesiastical persons, and all ecclesiastical causes, should be solely and
entirely subject to ecclesiastical jurisdiction only.''
After the conquest, when shoals of foreign clergy came over, and
when they and the pre-existing monastic clergy were bribed
by endowments to support the Conqueror, the papal policy pre-
vailed so far as to separate the ecclesiastical court from the
civil court ; after which " the Saxon laws were soon overborne
by the Norman justiciaries." In subsequent reigns, according
to Hallam
" the clergy combined its study [i. e., the Roman law] with that of their
own canons; it was a maxim that every canonist must be a civilian, and
that no one could be a good civilian unless he were also a canonist."
Along with acceptance of the doctrine that the Christian high
priest, the pope, was an oracle through whom God spoke, there
was established in Christendom a theory of law like that held by
ancient peoples: laws were divine dicta and priests divinely au-
thorized interpreters of them. Under these circumstances the
ecclesiastical courts extended their jurisdiction to secular causes ;
until, gradually, the secular courts were almost deprived of
power : the removal of criminal clerics from secular jurisdiction
and the penalty of excommunication on those who in any serious
way opposed the clerical power, being of course efficient weapons.
The condition of things then existing is well shown by the fol-
lowing statement of Prof. Maitland :
" If we look back to Richard I.'s reign we may see, as the highest tem-
poral court of the realm, a court chiefly composed of ecclesiastics, presided
over by an archbishop, who is also Chief Justiciar; he will have at his side
two or three bishops, two or three archdeacons, and but two or three lay-
men. The greatest judges even of Henry III.'s reign are ecclesiastics,
though by this time it has become scandalous for a bishop to do much sec-
ular justice."
Not only were priests the judges and the interpreters of law,
but they at one time discharged subordinate legal functions. In
Germany, according to Stolzel, the notarial profession was in the
hands of ecclesiastics. France, during the 13th century, furnished
like evidence. Clerics played the parts of procureurs or attorneys,
according to Fournier, who says :
"les ecclesiastiques ne pouvait, en principe, accepter ces fonctions que pour
representer les pauvres, les eglises, ou dans les causes spirituelles. "
