56 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
So, too, was it with, the function of advocate. Sainte Palaye
writes
" Loisel . . . remarks that in the time of Philip [the Fair] and since, the
hest of them were ' ecclesiastical persons instructed in the Canon and Civil
Law, learning practice chiefly by the decretals.' "
However, according to Fournier, this function was limited to cer-
tain cases
"le pretre ne pent exercer les fonctions d'avocat si ce n'est au profit de son
Eglise et des pauvres, et sans recevoir de salaire."
But in England, when ecclesiastics had been forbidden by the
pope to make their appearance in secular courts, it appears that
they evaded the prohibition by disguising themselves.
"Sir H. Spelman conjectures (Glossar. 335), that coifs were introduced
to hide the tonsure of such renegade clerks, as were still tempted to remain
in the secular courts in the quality of advocates or judges, notwithstanding
their prohibition by canon."
From which it would seem that the " renegade clerks " became
barristers who personally received the profits of their advocacy.
By what steps the complete secularization of the legal class
was effected in England, it does not here concern us to ascertain.
It suffices to observe the state of things now arrived at.
So long have our judges ceased to display any clerical attri-
butes, that now, to the ordinary citizen, the statement that they
were once priests is surprising. If there remains any trace of the
original condition of things, it is only in such a fact as that the
Archbishop of Canterbury retains the power of conferring the de-
gree of Doctor of Civil Law ; which degree, however, is one cover-
ing only a restricted sphere of practice. But, while, save perhaps
in observance of certain ceremonies and seasons, separation of
judicial functionaries from clerical functionaries has long been
complete, separation of certain areas of jurisdiction has taken
place quite recently. Until some five and thirty years ago eccle-
siastical courts still had jurisdiction over some secular matters
testamentary and matrimonial ; but they were then deprived of
this jurisdiction, and retained none save over affairs within the
Church itself.
In conformity with the usual course of things, while the legal
profession has been differentiating from the ecclesiastical, there
have been going on differentiations within the legal profession
itself. Originally, beyond the judge and the two suitors there
occasionally existed only the advocate a functionary who, be-
coming established, presently rendered his services to defendants
as well as to plaintiffs. Gradually these ancillary agencies have
complicated ; until now there are various classes and sub-classes
of those who conduct legal proceedings.
