THE AIMS OF ANTHROPOLOGY. 59
THE AIMS OF ANTHROPOLOGY.*
By DANIEL G. BKINTON.
A MODERN philosopher has advanced the maxim that what
is first in thought is last in expression, illustrating it by
the rules of grammar, which are present even in unwritten lan-
guages, whose speakers have no idea of syntax or parts of
speech.
It may be that this is the reason why man, who has ever been
the most important creature to himself in existence, has never
seriously and to the best of his abilities made a study of his own
nature, its wants and its weaknesses, and how best he could sat-
isfy the one and amend the other.
The branch of human learning which undertakes to do this is
one of the newest of the sciences ; in fact, it has scarcely yet
gained admission as a science at all, and is rather looked upon as
a dilettante occupation, suited to persons of elegant leisure and re-
tired old gentlemen, and without any very direct or visible prac-
tical applications or concern with the daily affairs of life.
It is with the intention of correcting this prevalent impres-
sion that I address you to-day. My endeavor will be to point out
both the immediate and remote aims of the science of anthro-
pology, and to illustrate by some examples the bearings they
have, or surely soon will have, on the thoughts and acts of civi-
lized communities and intelligent individuals.
It is well at the outset to say that I use the term anthropology
in the sense in which it has been adopted by this association that
is, to include the study of the whole of man, his psychical as well
as his physical nature, and the products of all his activities,
whether in the past or in the present. By some writers, es-
pecially on the Continent of Europe, the term anthropology is
restricted to what we call physical anthropology or somatology, a
limitation of the generic term which we can not but deplore.
Others again, and some of worthy note, would exclude from it
the realm of history, confining it in time to the research of pre-
historic epochs, and in extent, to the investigation of savage
nations.
I can not too positively protest against such opinions. Thus
"cabined, cribbed, confined," it could never soar to that lofty
eminence whence it could survey the whole course of the life of
the species, note the development of its inborn tendencies, and
mark the lines along which it has been moving since the first
* Address of the retiring president of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, dehvered at Springfield, Mass., August 29, 1895.
