6o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
syllables of recorded time ; for this, and nothing less than this,
is the bold ambition toward which aspires this crowning bough
of the tree of human knowledge.
You will readily understand from this the magnitude of the
material which anthropology includes within its domain. First,
it investigates the physical life of man in all its stages and in
every direction. While he is still folded in the womb, it watches
his embryonic progress through those lower forms, which seem
the reminiscences of far-ofi: stages of the evolution of the species,
until the child is born into the world, endowed with the heritage
transmitted from innumerable ancestors and already rich in per-
sonal experiences from its prenatal life. These combined decide
the individual's race and strain, and potently incline, if they do
not absolutely coerce, his tastes and ambitions, his fears and
hopes, his failure or success.
On the differences thus brought about, and later nourished by
the environment, biology, as applied to the human species, is
based ; and on them as expressed in aggregates, ethnography, the
separation of the species into its subspecies and smaller groups,
is founded. It has been observed that numerous and persistent
although often slight differences arose in remote times, independ-
ently, on each of the great continental areas, sufBcient to charac-
terize with accuracy these subspecies. We therefore give to
such the terms " races " or " varieties" of man.
All these are the physical traits of men. They are studied by
the anatomist, the embryologist, the physician; and the closest
attention to them is indispensable if we would attain a correct
understanding of the creature man and his position in the chain
of organic life.
But there is another vast field of study wholly apart from
this and even more fruitful in revelations. It illustrates man^s
mental or psychical nature, his passions and instincts, his emo-
tions and thoughts, his powers of ratiocination, volition, and ex-
pression. These are preserved and displayed subjectively in his
governments and religions, his laws and his languages, his words
and his writings, and, objectively, in his manufactures and struc-
tures, in the environment which he himself creates in other
words, in all that which we call the arts, be they " hooked to some
useful end " or designed to give pleasure only.
It is not sufficient to study these as we find them in the pres-
ent. We should learn little by such a procedure. Wliat we are
especially seeking is to discover their laws of growth, and this
can only be done by tracing these outward expressions of the in-
ward faculties step by step back to their incipiency. This leads
us inevitably to that branch of learning which is known as
archaeology, " the study of ancient things," and more and more
