62 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
This emphasizes the importance of a prolonged and profound
investigation of the few savage tribes who still exist, for, al-
though none of them is as rude or as brutelike as primitive man,
they stand nearest to his condition, and, moreover, so rapid now-
adays is the extension of culture that probably not one of them
will remain untouched by its presence another score of years.
Another discovery, also very recent, has enabled us to throw
light on the prehistoric or forgotten past. We have found that
much of it, thought to be long since dead, is still alive and in our
midst, under forms easily enough recognized when our attention
is directed to them. This branch of anthropology is known as
folklore. It investigates the stories, the superstitions, the beliefs,
and customs which prevail among the unlettered, the isolated, and
the young ; for these are nothing less than survivals of the my-
thologies, the legal usages, and the sacred rites of earlier genera-
tions. It is surprising to observe how much of the past we have
been able to reconstruct from this humble and long-neglected
material.
From what I have already said, you will understand some of
the aims of anthropology, those which I will call its " immediate "
aims. They are embraced in the collection of accurate informa-
tion about man and men, about the individual and the group, as
they exist now and as they have existed at any and all times in
the past, here where we are and on every continent and island
of the globe.
We desire to know about a man his weight and his measure,
the shape of his head, the color of his skin, and the curl of his
hair ; we would pry into all his secrets and his habits, discover
his deficiencies and debilities, learn his language, and inquire
about his politics and his religion yes, probe those recesses of his
body and his soul which he conceals from wife and brother. This
we would do with every man and every woman, and, not content
with the doing it, we would register all these facts in tables and
columns, so that they should become perpetual records, to which
we give the name " vital statistics."
The generations of the past escape such personal investigation,
but not our pursuit. We rifle their graves, measure their skulls,
and analyze their bones ; we carry to our museums the utensils
and weapons, the gods and jewels, which sad and loving hands
laid beside them ; we dig up the foundations of their houses and
cart off the monuments which their proud kings set up. Nothing
is sacred to us ; and yet nothing to us is vile or worthless. The
broken potsherd, with half-gnawed bone, cast on the refuse heap,
conveys a message to us more pregnant with meaning, more in-
dicative of what the people were, than the boastful inscription
which their king caused to be engraved on royal marble.
