THE AIMS OF ANTHROPOLOGY. 63
This gleaning and gathering, this collecting and storing of
facts about man from all quarters of the world and all epochs of
his existence, is the first and indispensable aim of anthropologic
science. It is pressing and urgent beyond all other aims at this
period of its existence as a science, for here more than elsewhere
we feel the force of the Hippocratic warning that the time is
short and the opportunity fleeting. Every day there perish price-
less relics of the past, every year the languages, the habits, and
the modes of thought of the surviving tribes which represent the
earlier condition of the whole species are increasingly trans-
formed and lost through the extension of civilization. It devolves
on the scholars of this generation to be up and doing in these
fields of research, for those of the next will find many a chance
lost forever of which we can avail ourselves.
And here let me insert a few much-needed words of counsel on
this portion of my theme. Why is it that even in scientific circles
so little attention is paid to the proper training of observers and
collectors in anthropology ?
We erect stately museums, we purchase costly specimens, we
send out expensive expeditions ; but where are the universities,
the institutions of higher education, that train young men how to
observe, how to explore and collect in this branch ? As an emi-
nent ethnologist has remarked, in any other department of science
in that, for instance, which deals with flowers or with butterflies
no institution would dream of sending a collector into the field
who lacked all preliminary training in the line or knowledge of
it ; but in anthropology the opinion seems universal that such
preparation is quite needless. Carlyle used to say that every
man feels himself competent to be a gentleman farmer or a crown
prince ; our institutions seem to think that every man is compe-
tent to be an anthropologist and archeeologist ; and let a plausible
explorer present himself, the last question put to him will be
whether he has any fitness for the job.
Hence our museums are crammed with doubtful specimens,
vaguely located, and our volumes of travel with incomplete or
wholly incorrect statements, worse than pnrely fictitious ones,
because we know them to be the fruit of honest intentions, and
therefore give them credit.
But you will naturally ask. To what end this accumulating
and collecting, this filling of museums with the art products of
savages and the ghastly contents of charnel houses ? Why write
down their stupid stories and make notes of their obscene rites ?
When it shall be done, or as good as done, what use can be made
of them beyond satisfying a profitless curiosity ?
This leads me to explain another branch of anthropology to
which I have not yet alluded one which introduces us to other
