64 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
aims of this science quite distinct from those I have mentioned.
That branch is ethnology.
Ethnology in its true sense represents the application of the
principles of inductive philosophy to the products of man's facul-
ties. You are aware that that philosophy proceeds from observed
facts alone ; it discards all preconceived opinions concerning these
facts ; it renounces all allegiance to dogma, or doctrine, or intui-
tion ; in short, to every form of statement that is not capable of
verification. Its method of procedure is by comparison that is,
by the logical equations of similarity and diversity, of identity
and difference ; and on these it bases those generalizations which
range the isolated fact under the general law, of which it is at
once the exponent and the proof.
By such comparisons ethnology aims to define in clear terms
the influence which the geographical and other environment exer-
cises on the individual, the social group, and the race ; and, con-
versely, how much in each remains unaltered by the external
forces, and what residual elements are left, defiant of surround-
ings, wholly personal, purely human. Thus, rising to wider and
wider circles of observation and generalization, it will be able at
last to offer a conclusive and exhaustive connotation of what man
is a necessary preliminary, mark you, to that other question, so
often and so ignorantly answered in the past, as to what he
should be.
Ethnology, however, does not and should not concern itself
with this latter inquiry. Its own field is broad enough and the
harvest offered is rich enough. Its materials are drawn from the
whole of history and from pre-history. Those writers who limit
its scope to the explanation of the phenomena of primitive social
life only have so done because these phenomena are simpler in
such conditions, not that the methods of ethnology are applicable
only to such. On the contrary, they are not merely suitable, they
are necessary to all the facts of history, if we would learn their
true meaning and import. The time will come, and that soon,
when sound historians will adopt as their guide the principles,
and methods of ethnologic science, because by these alone can
they assign to the isolated fact its right place in the vast struc-
ture of human development.
In the past, histories have told of little but of kings and their
wars ; some writers of recent date have remembered that there is
such a thing as the people, and have essayed to present its hum-
ble annals ; but how few have even attempted to avail themselves
of the mj^riad of sidelights which ethnology can throw on the
motives and the manners of a people, its impulses and acquisi-
tions !
It is the constant aim of ethnology to present its results free
