RECENT RECRUDESCENCE OF SUPERSTITION. 91
ing that the ignorant and credulous peasantry of southern Italy-
should fall into gross f etichism of this sort ; the astonishing thing
is that the priests of a Church which sends missionaries to Africa
should encourage such crass superstition at home, and, instead of
seeking to enlighten the minds of the masses, should march in
procession to the scene of the supposed miracle with banners and
censers, singing hymns and chanting litanies, and displaying all
the pomp and paraphernalia of an imposing religious ritual in
confirmation of a vulgar delusion.
In August, 1894, the population of one of the suburbs of Vi-
enna was thrown into intense excitement by the rumored appari-
tion of the Virgin Mary, who was said to have been seen at
sundry times sitting on the branch of a tree in an old cemetery
and holding the child in her arms. The throng became so great
as to require the intervention of a squadron of police in order to
prevent a complete interruption of the city traJBBc. ISTot only was
the reality of the supernatural appearance generally believed, but
several persons turned it to practical account by noting the exact
time of the occurrence, hour, day, month, and year, so as to secure
lucky numbers for the lottery, and even attributed the presence
of the police to the anxiety of the Austrian Minister of Finance
lest, by a happy combination of these numbers, some one should
win a tern and thus deplete the state treasury. A workman from
a neighboring factory, who chanced to pass by, endeavored to
demonstrate the impossibility of such phenomena, and urged the
crowd not to give credence to idle tales of this sort ; but this
laborer was the only one who acted the part of Paul on Mar's Hill
and reproved the multitude for being " too superstitious." Not a
representative of the clergy, from the humblest ecclesiastic to the
highest dignitary of the Church, has ever been known to improve
occasions of this kind for the religious instruction and intellectual
elevation of the people. Indeed, it would be difficult for them to
do so, in view of the fact that the literature which the Catholic
Church still publishes and disseminates for the promotion of
piety consists chiefly of similar legends ; and it would not sur-
prise us if a full and authentic account of the Vienna apparition
should appear in the columns of the Innsbriick periodical. Monthly
Roses to the Honor of the Immaculate Mary, Mother of God, as
an incentive to more ardent adoration of the Virgin.
Some years ago, in the month of May, I was walking up the
Ludwigstrasse, in Munich, with a German friend well known as
a genial poet and earnest Catholic. Just then a procession of
maidens dressed in white, with wreaths of flowers on their heads
and an image of the Virgin borne aloft, came out of the church
and passed through the garden, in which are the stations with
Fortner's frescoes representing the life and passion of Christ.
