92 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" There is something that appeals to the imagination/' remarked
the German. " And purely a creation of the imagination, too/'
was my reply. A conversation ensned, from which it appeared
that my friend regarded all religious beliefs, institutions, rites,
and ceremonies solely from an aesthetic and poetic point of view.
He even declared that it made no difference to him whether such
a person as Christ ever lived, and whether the popes were the
successors of Peter or not ; he should still be a Christian and a
Catholic. He admitted that all sacred literatures are more or less
mythical, and that our Holy Writ forms no exception to the rule,
"With the progress of the race the old myths are refined and
transformed, both artistically and ethically, and thus adapted to
every advance in civilization, but they never die out. "The
masses," he added, " are mentally and morally mere children and
will probably always remain so, and the most interesting and
instructive books for children are mdrchen." Here was a schol-
arly and thoughtful man who stood wholly out of reach of " the
higher criticism/' since he was ready to assent to its most radical
conclusions without the slightest change in his attitude to the
current system of belief.
A mind thus constituted would regret the decay of supersti-
tion as a decline of ideality and a limitation of the undefined
and unknown regions of the supernatural, in which that errant
sprite, the imagination, is free to expatiate and quick to discover
wonders more strange than any invented by the Moor of Venice
to win the heart of Senator Brabantio's daughter. We fully ap-
preciate the poetical side of popular mythology and the unfading
fascination of folklore, and feel the charm that lingers in cus-
toms growing out of these survivals of primitive beliefs; but
this is another phase of the subject which can not be discussed in
the present paper. There are many tourists who remember Rome
as it was under papal rule, with its countless beggars and chronic
filth and perennial sources of malarial fever, and are fain to
lament the disappearance of these picturesque features through
the purification and regeneration of the ancient city. It is the
same sort of false sentiment that mourns over what the poet calls
"The fair humanities of old religion/'
the loss of which has been more than made good by the marvelous
discoveries of modern science, whose achievements rival the an-
nals of credulity in their appeals to the imagination, and render
the visible and invisible forces of Nature, once the terror of man,
now tributary to his happiness.
