EVOLUTION IN FOLKLORE. 93
EVOLUTION IN FOLKLORE.
SOME WEST AFRICAN PROTOTYPES OF THE "UNCLE
REMUS" STORIES.
By the latb Colonel A. B. ELLIS.
IN tlie process of collecting the folklore of West Africa, but
cliiefiy that of the Gold Coast, I have found several tales
which are evidently the West African variants of some of the
stories collected in the Southern States by Mr. Joel Chandler
Harris, and published under the title of " Uncle Remus," and a
comparison of the two sets may be of some interest to American
readers, besides affording an example of the extent to which folk-
lore is affected by change of environment.
The role of Brer Rabbit is filled on the Gold Coast by the
Spider {^Anansi), and on the Slave Coast by the Tortoise {Aivon),
who is doubtless the prototype of the Terrapin in " Uncle Remus."
In both districts the Hare figures in the tales, and possibly Brer
Rabbit is the Hare amid new surroundings, but in West Africa
" Long Ears " rather takes the place of Brer Fox, as he is usually
outwitted by the Spider and the Tortoise.
So large a number of the folklore tales of the Gold Coast have
the Spider for their hero that the title Anansi' sem, "Spider
stories," is now the generic native name for all folklore tales
whatever, no matter what the subject may be; and this designa-
tion survives in the British West Indies in the name " Nancy
stories," which is there applied by the negro to his local folk-
lore. The supply of slaves for the British West Indies was drawn
almost exclusively from the Gold Coast, so that al], or almost all,
of the existing folklore of those islands is derived direct from
the Spider stories, and can be readily traced ; but in the Southern
States the connection is not always so apparent, for although up
to the beginning of the present century Gold Coast negroes
formed the bulk of the imported slaves, yet, after about 1810,
when the African kingdom of Yoruba broke up, large numbers
of Slave Coast negroes were introduced, with the result that the
local tales present features peculiar to both districts of West
Africa.
The second tale in Mr. Harris's " Uncle Remus " series is en-
titled The Wonderful Tar-baby, and, briefly, is as follows : Brer
Fox makes an e^gj of tar, mixed with turpentine, and sets it up
by the roadside. Brer Rabbit, coming along the road, sees the
tar-baby and bids it " Good morning." The tar-baby makes no
reply, upon which Brer Rabbit grows angry and strikes it, with
the result that his hand sticks to the effigy. Then he strikes with
