94 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
his other hand, with the same result ; then he kicks with his feet,
and, finally, butts with his head, until he is completely fixed to
the tar-baby. As will be readily seen, this is evidently a variant
of the following Gold Coast tale :
SPIDER AND THE FARMER.
There was a famine in Spider's country, and Spider had noth-
ing to eat. Now Spider had a son, named Kwaku Tyom, and
Spider's son used to go to a farm not far away and steal
cassava. And every day when he brought home the cassava, his
father would ask him, " Where dost thou get this cassava ? " But
Spider's son always made answer that he could not tell him, for
if he. Spider, were to go there, some harm might befall him.
Spider said, " Oh ! my son, did I not beget thee, and yet thou
thinkest thyself to be more clever than I ? Show me the place,
and I will be careful that no one sees me." But Spider's son still
refused to show Spider.
Now, whenever Spider's son went to the farm to dig cassava,
he used to carry a bag, which he filled with cassava, and so
brought home ; and Spider played his son Kwaku Tyom a trick,
for, when night fell, and Spider's son had laid himself down and
was sleeping, Spider put wood ashes into the bag and made a hole
in the bottom thereof.
Next morning Spider's son arose, and slung the bag around
his neck, and set forth to go to the farm ; and as he walked, the
ashes fell through the hole in the bag and marked the path. Then
Spider came after his son and saw the road, but he did not go to
the farm that day ; he returned home and said nothing. In the
evening Spider's son returned home and brought cassava.
Next morning Spider arose early and followed the track of the
ashes to go to the farm ; and when he reached the place he saw a
something there made of crossed sticks, standing in the midst of
the farm, and there were snail ^shells hanging thereon, which the
breeze rattled.*
When Spider saw this he was afraid. He saluted the some-
thing, and said, " Good morning, sir " ; but the something made
him no answer. Then Spider became vexed, and he said, " Oh !
oh ! dost thou want to shake me by the hand before thou answer-
est me ? " He put out his hand to the something, and his hand
became fixed to the sticks so that he could not draw it back.
* What we should call a scarecrow, but on the Gold Coast such things scare people
rather than birds, for they are meant to protect crops from thieves, and are believed to
possess a latent power, derived from some god, to entrap or bring misfortune upon any one
who interferes with what is under their guardianship. The snail sheila here mentioned are
those of the large edible snail of West Africa.
