EVOLUTION IN FOLKLORE. 95
Then Spider "became more vexed, and said, " What sort of man-
ners are these ? I was so polite as to come and shake thy hand,
and now thou dost hold my hand and will not leave it." He put
forth his left hand to the something, and the left hand became
fastened also. " Well, well," said Spider, " what is it that thou
wishest me to do ? Thou hast caught my two hands. Dost want
me to embrace thee ? " He put his face to the shoulder of the
something, and it remained fixed there so that he could not draw
it back. He kicked with his two feet at the sticks, and they also
were caught and held.
In this wise Spider remained all that day and until the morn-
ing of the next day, when the plantation owner came there and
saw Spider fastened to the something. And the farmer said :
" Hallo, Father Spider, and is it thou who hast been coming to
take my cassava all this time ? At last I have found thee out ! "
Spider's wife and Spider's son Kwaku Tyom knew that Spi-
der had gone to the farm, because they had not seen him in the
house all the night.
The farmer said to Spider, " I have lost about two hundred
and fifty cassavas from my farm since this began, and unless thou
payest me thou wilt not go from here." Then Spider begged for
pardon, and prayed the man to release him, saying that he would
pay for all, and the farmer released him.
Then Spider said to the man that he must return home with
him, and they went together ; and when they arrived at Spider's
house, they met there Spider's wife and son. The farmer said to
Spider's wife : " I saw Spider in my farm this morning, quite fas-
tened up, and, as I have lost about two hundred and fifty cassavas
from my farm, I asked Spider concerning them, and he confessed
it was he who had taken them, and said he would pay me, so I
have come hither with him to receive payment."
Then Spider's son spake to Spider and said : " Father, I told
thee not to go to the farm. My mother has told me that, when I
was sleeping one night, thou didst put some ashes into my bag,
and picked a hole in the bag ; but I knew not when I was going
next morning that the ashes were falling along the road. Now,
father, how art thou going to pay for so much ? " Spider an-
swered softly, " Never mind, my son, I will pay him up in the
roof."
Then Spider made an excuse to the farmer that he wanted to
go into his sleeping room, but the farmer said : " No, I will not
let thee do so, for thou art too tricky." But Spider begged the
farmer, saying that he only wanted to go into the room to get the
money wherewith to pay him, and that he would return at once ;
and at last, after much talking, the farmer left Spider.
Then, when Spider had moved about three steps from where
