96 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tlie farmer was sitting, lie cried : " Oli ! oli ! daddy farmer, I have
no money for tliee. I will pay thee on the roof top." And he
jumped at once into the rafters, where he said, " I shall not come
down again."
Since then Spider has not come down from the roof, for he
owes the farmer too much, and the farmer is still looking for
him.
The eighteenth of Mr. Harris's tales, entitled Mr. Rabbit finds
his Match at Last, describes how Brer Rabbit runs a race with
the Terrapin, which the Terrapin wins by distributing his wife
and children at the different mileposts along the track, and by
concealing himself near the winning post, up to which he crawls
when Brer Rabbit draws near. In the introduction Mr. Harris
mentions a similar tale from the South Atlantic States, where the
Terrapin, by the same stratagem, wins a race that he runs against
the Deer. In this instance, however, the race is for a bride, who
is to marry the winner, and so the tale probably has reference to
the once widely distributed marriage custom known as "bride
racing." The Gold Coast tale, equally with that of Uncle Remus,
has no reference to marriage. It is as follows :
THE FROG AND THE LEOPARD.
One day the Frog challenged the Leopard to run a race with
him from Axim to Accra, and the Leopard answered : " This
is foolishness. A little slow-moving creature such as thou art
could not race with me " ; but the Frog said, " Yes, I will, and
we will then see who is a man" ; so the Leopard agreed, and they
fixed a day for the race.
Then the Frog went to Axim, and he placed frogs all along
the road from Axim to Accra. He hid them in the bush, putting
here five and there ten ; and when the time came, the Leopard
came and called the Frog to go and race.
When they started, they started together, and the Leopard at
once made one leap and came to Shamah, and when he alighted
on the ground he called " Frog," and a frog answered " Yaow."
The Leopard said : " What ! such a little creature as that can beat
me in a race ? No, it is not possible. I will go on again " ; and he
skipped from Shamah to Kommenda, and when he alighted he
called again, " Frog," and a frog answered " Yaow." Then the
Leopard was ready to scream with vexation, he did not know
what to do, and it was bitter to think that such a slow creature
as a frog could leap as far as he.
The Leopard made another leap, and he leaped from Kommen-
da to Amkwana, and as he alighted he called " Frog," and a frog
answered " Yaow." The Leopard said, " What ! art thou here
again ? " and he was angry, and he made a bound from Amkwana
