EVOLUTION IN FOLKLORE. 99
cows swallowed tliem up. Then tliey cut meat from the insides
of the cows, but the cows did not die.
Next morning the king came to his cows to get meat, and the
cows voided meat for the king, but this time the meat was not
fresh as it always used to be, because Spider and Kwaku Tse had
cut it and left it inside all night. The king said, " I wonder why
the meat is not fresh as it always is ? " and he sent for a medicine
man to see if he could cure the cows, for he thought that they
were sick. When the medicine man came, he said that the cows
had eaten a bad leaf, and he poured medicine down their throats.
Then the medicine purged them and they voided more meat, but
it was all stinking.
"When the king and the medicine man had gone away, and
there was nobody left with the cows, Kwaku Tse came out and
went into the cow in which was Spider, and when he came there
he found that Spider had done the same as he, Kwaku Tse, had
done in the other cow. He said to Spider : " I do not know why
we can not make these two cows die. We have cut all the meat
inside. I am going back to my cow, and after I have gone inside
I will cut its belly right through with a knife." Spider answered :
" No, do not do that. When thou goest in, thou must cut neither
the belly nor the heart." Kwaku Tse asked, " Why not ? " and Spi-
der said, " Because if we kill the cows while we are yet inside, we
shall not be able to get out again, and what shall we do then ? "
Kwaku Tse asked, " Why should we not be able to come out ? "
Then Spider said, " Is not thy mother dead ? " and Kwaku Tse an-
swered, " Yes." Spider said again, "And what caused her death ? "
and Kwaku Tse answered, " She died by poison." Spider said :
" When she was dead, did not a medicine man come and try to
make her sneeze or open her mouth, and did he not fail to do it ?
Thus thou must know that if the cows die while we are yet inside
them, we can not get out. But we can hide ourselves, and that is
what we will do. The king will rip open their bellies to discover
the cause of their death, so thou must chop the meat on one side
very small, so that they will think that the cows have received a
blow, and have died therefrom. When the king rips open the
cow thou must hide in the stomach, and if thou seest that they
are about to search there, thou must run into the bowels and hide.
When thou goest into thy cow now, after thou hast chopped the
side as I told thee, thou must search for the heart and cut it down.
When thou hast cut the heart down the cow will die, and then
thou must be careful where thou hidest, so as to escape the knife
with which they will open the belly. But before thou doest this,
first run to the man in whose house we lodge and tell him that
we are going to the water side to wash." Then Kwaku Tse went
to the house-master and told him, and returned into the belly of
