loo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the cow, and chopped the side and cut the heart down, and the
cow died. And Spider did the same in his cow, and both cows
were dead.
When the king came and saw that his cows were dead, he
ordered his people to go and bring the medicine man who had phys-
icked the cows, and when the medicine man came he said that if
the king would allow it he would rip open the cows' bellies. The
king consented, and they ripped open the cows, and the medicine
man said that something had struck the cows a blow in the side
and that that was the cause of their death. The king asked the
medicine man if the cows were still good to eat, and the medicine
man said that they were. Then the king said : " When thou camest
first to the cows thou didst say that they had eaten a bad leaf.
How, then, can their flesh now be good to eat ?" The medicine
man answered that at first he thought the cows had eaten a bad
leaf and were sick therefrom, but now he found that a blow had
been struck them, and therefore the flesh would be good to eat.
He said that the people must cut up the cows and carry the
paunches to the water side and wash them.
Then the king had the cows cut up, and he ordered two of his
slaves to carry the paunches to the water side ; and when they
went there they threw them down in the water. When the
paunches fell into the water Spider and Kwaku Tse broke forth
from their hiding places and changed themselves at once, and
looked up at the two slaves and cried unto them : " See how ye
have acted to us ! see how ye have acted to us ! We were bathing
here in this water and ye came and cast cows' paunches upon us.'^
The two slaves were frightened, and they left the paunches
and ran away and returned to the king and told him : " When
we carried the cow paunches to the stream and cast them into the
water, two men arose and said we had cast the cow paunches up-
on them. The king asked, " And did ye throw the paunches upon
them ? " The slaves answered : " We saw them not ; but when
they jumped up before us they were covered with the filth from
the cow paunches." The king asked, " How deep was the place ? "
and the slaves answered that it was about the depth of a man's
knees. Then the king said, " If it were only of that depth ye
must have seen the men when ye cast in the cow paunches."
The king called two elders and sent them to the water side to
see the two men, and when the elders came they found Spider and
his friend covered with filth and the cow paunches in the water.
Spider said to them : " That which these two slaves have done to
us, if we were not strangers here in the town, we would deal with
them for it. We asked if we might come here and wash before
we came here." The elders said, " This is the place where we
always are used to wash. The slaves have done wrong, but they
