102 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
I was a young boy, or else they would not have done such a
thing." The king said : " Thou must not say so. I am here for
all people, for the townfolk and for strangers also, to protect
them and be a father to them." Kwaku Tse answered : " How
canst thou say thou art a father to the stranger ? Did not we
come and ask thee for meat, and didst not thou tell us that thou
hadst only meat for thine own household ? " Spider said : " In
this world in which we live it is not everybody that likes every-
body, so it behooves every man to keep a little medicine * to guide
him. If the cows died of sickness then our medicine is spoiled,
but if the cows were killed no great harm was done." The king
said that the cows had died, and then Spider sang :
'' My namesake, Kwaku, we are wearied, we are wearied.
We are wearied without cause."
The king asked what this song might mean, and Spider said that
the little medicine which they possessed was a medicine which for-
bade them even to pass by dead animals, and now the flesh of ani-
mals that had died had been thrown upon them. He said : " Had
these two slaves killed one of us, instead of throwing the paunches
upon us, it would have been better, because the one who lived
would have mourned for the other, and that is something. As
we are standing before thee now, O king, if war came upon thee
we are thy men. And if war did come upon thee now, we should
be the first to die in battle on account of what thy slaves have
done." He said, " No son can be older than his father." Then
the king asked what this proverb might mean, and Spider and
Kwaku Tse showed each a medicine that was upon their loins,
and said : " This medicine, when we were born it was not upon us.
After we were born we made it, and if thou wilt help us we will
make fresh medicine again, and let this matter rest, for thy sake."
The king said, " Whatever it is ye want, say it," and they an-
swered, " That which we want, perchance thou thyself will want
it also." The king said, " As ye are strangers, ask for what ye
wish, and, even though I want it, ye shall have it." Then they
said that they wanted the two heads and the two hearts of the very
cows whose paunches had spoiled their medicine, and hair from
two of the king's own wives. The king answered that he would
give them the cows' heads and the two hearts, but as for his
wives' hair, that was too much to ask. Spider said, " If the cows
were not thine own it would be different, but as the cows were
thine own we must ask for the hair." Then the king said he
would give them the hair according to their wish, but only a
little ; and Spider and Kwaku Tse said that a little would suffice.
* I. e., an amulet or charm.
