104 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that the cow has sunk into the ground. They both pull at the
tail, and when it comes out Brer Rabbit winks his eye and says,
" Dar ! de tail done pull out en de cow gone."
No. XXXIII, Why the Negro is Black, is practically the same
as the Gold Coast tale. Why Some People are Black and Some
White. In the Uncle Remus variant there is a pool of water in
which those who wash become white ; but the water is soon used
up, and the last comers only find enough to whiten the palms of
their hands and the soles of their feet. In the Gold Coast tale
the change of color is brought about by means of the blood of a
handsome boy, who has committed suicide by casting himself
down from a tree.
No. VI, Mr. Rabbit Grossly deceives Mr. Fox, which describes
how Brer Rabbit, by a trick, rides Brer Fox to Miss Meadows's
house, is like the Slave Coast tale. How the Tortoise rode the
Elephant to Town, and the stratagem by which the Tortoise es-
capes being killed by the Elephant is similar to that employed by
Brer Rabbit when Brer Fox is about to kill him (No. IV, How Mr.
Rabbit was too Sharp for Mr. Fox), and also by the Terrapin when
in the same dilemma (No. XII, Mr. Fox tackles Old Man Tarry-
pin). In the first case Brer Rabbit says, "I don't keer w'at you
do wid me. Brer Fox, so you don't fling me in dat brier patch,"
and in the second the Terrapin begs Brer Fox not to drown him,
but to burn him. In the Slave Coast tale, the Tortoise begs the
Elephant to dash him down upon the stones, but not to throw him
into the swamp, as the water and mire would drown him.
In No. XVII Mr. Rabbit Nibbles up the Butter where Brer
Rabbit rubs the butter upon the mouth of the sleeping Opossum,
and causes him to be thought guilty of the offense, we find a more
delicate version of an incident in the Gold Coast tale How the
Cat got the Better of Spider but as this paper has already
reached sufficient length, this and the other stories above men-
tioned can not be given in detail.
Prof, Angelo Heilprin points out as a field where thoi'ough geo-
graphical explorations may be made with profit and additions to knowl-
edge, the regions of the North Pacific uniting North America by stepping
stones with Asia : the Aleutian Islands and peninsula, Bering Sea and
Strait, and the peninsula of Kamchatka. " Where two continents approach
one another so closely and give evidence of having been united at seem-
ingly no very ancient date ; where a connecting land-bridge could not but
most effectually influence the distribution of life human, animal, and
vegetable upon two hemispheres ; there, manifestly, the harvest of explo-
ration must be great, for bound in with the research are problems of deep
significance, touching alike the sciences of physical geography, ethnology,
geology, and botany."
