io6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
reality, lie is merely objecting to a particular ruler and the kind
of rule (or, as the child would say, misrule) which he is carrying
out.
Let us look a little into the noncompliant, disobedient attitude
of children. As we have seen, the very liveliness of a child, the
abundance of his vigorous impulses, brings him into conflict with
others' wills. The ruler, more particularly, is a great and con-
tinual source of crossings and checkings. The child has his natu-
ral wishes and propensities. He is full of fun, bent on his harm-
less tricks, and the mother has to talk seriously to him about being
naughty. How can we wonder at his disliking the constraint ?
He has a number of inconvenient active impulses, such as putting
things in disorder, playing with water, and so forth. As we all
know, he has a ducklike fondness for dirty puddles. Civilization,
which wills that a child should be nicely dressed and clean, inter-
venes in the shape of the nurse and soon puts a stop to this mode
of diversion. The tyro in submission, if sound and robust, kicks
against the restraint, yells, slaps the nurse, and so forth.
Such collisions are perfectly normal in the first years of life.
We should not care to see a child give up his inclinations at an-
other's bidding without some little show of resistance. These con-
flicts are frequent and sharp in proportion to the sanity and vigor
of the child. The best children, best from a biological point of
view, have, I think, most of the rebel in them. Not infrequently
these resistances of young will to old will are accompanied by
more emphatic protests in the shape of slapping, pushing, and
even biting. The ridiculous inequality in bodily power, however,
saves, or ought to save, the contest from becoming a serious phys-
ical struggle. The resistance where superior force is used can
only resolve itself into a helpless protest, a vain yelling, or other
utterance of baffled impulse.
If, instead of physical compulsion, authority is asserted in the
shape of a highly disagreeable command, a child, before obedience
has grown into a habit, will be likely to disobey. If the nurse, in-
stead of pulling the mite away from the puddle, bids him come
away, he may assert his self in an eloquent "I won't," or, less
bluntly, " I can't come yet." If he is very much in love with the
puddle and has a stout heart, he probably embarks in a tussle of
words ; " I won't," or, as the child will significantly put it, " I
mus'n't," being bandied with " You must," until the nurse has to
abandon the " moral " method and to resort, after all, to physical
compulsion.
Our sample child has not, we will assume, yet got so far as to
recognize and defer to a general rule about cleanliness. Hence it
may be said that his opposition is directed against the nurse, as
propounding a particular command, and one which at the moment
