STUDIES OF CHILDHOOD. 109
various ways in wliicli a child will seek to evade the point in such
cases are truly marvelous, and show the childish intelligence at
its ablest.
Sometimes the dreary " talking to," with its well-known deep
accusatory tone, its familiar pleadings, " How can you be so
naughty?" and the rest, is daringly ignored. After keeping up
an excellent appearance of listening, the small culprit proceeds in
the most artless way to talk about something more agreeable.
This is trying, but is not the worst. The deepest depth of mater-
nal humiliation is reached when a carefully prepared and solemnly
delivered homily is rewarded by a iu quoque in the shape of a cor-
rection of something in the delivery which offends the child's sense
of propriety. This befell one mother who, after talking seriously
to her little boy about some fault, was met with this remark :
" Mamma, when you talk you don't move your upper jaw."
It is, of course, difficult to say how far a child's interruptions,
and what look like turnings of the conversation when receiving
rebuke, are the result of deliberate plotting. We know it is hard
to hold the young thoughts long on any subject, and the homily
makes a heavy demand in this respect, and its theme is apt to seem
dull to a child's lively brain. The thoughts will be sure to wander
then, and the rude interruptions and digressions may, after all, be
but the natural play of the young mind. I fear, however, that
design often has a hand here. The first digression to which the
weak disciplinarian succumbed may have been the result of a
spontaneous movement of child-thought ; but its success enables
the observant child to try it on a second time with artful aim.
In cases in which no attempt is made to ignore the accusation,
the small wits are busy discovering palliatives and exculpations.
Here we have the many ruses, often crude enough, by which the
little culprit tries to shake off moral responsibility, to deny the
authorship of the action found fault with. The blame is put on
anybody or anything. When he breaks something, say a cup,
and is scolded, he saves himself by saying it was because the cup
wasn't made strong enough, or because the maid put it too near
the edge of the table. There are clear indications of fatalistic
thought in these childish disclaimers. Things were so conditioned
that he could not help doing what he did. This fatalism betrays
itself in the childish ruses already referred to by which the ego
tries to screen itself shabbily by throwing responsibility on to the
bodily agents. This device is sometimes hit upon very early. A
wee child of two, when told not to cry, gasped out, " Elsie cry not
Elsie cry tears cry naughty tears." This, it must be allowed, is
more plausible than C 's lame attempt to put off responsibility
on his hands ; for our tears are in a sense apart from us, and in
the first years are wholly beyond control.
