no THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The fatalistic form of exculpation meets us later on under the
familiar form, " God made me like that/' A boy of three was
blamed for leaving his crusts, and his conduct contrasted with
that of his model papa. Whereupon he observed with a touch of
metaphysical precocity, " Yes, but papa you see God had made
you and me different."
These denials of authorship occur when a charge is brought
home and no clear justification of the action is forthcoming. In
many cases the shrewd intelligence of the child, which is never so
acute as in this art of moral self-defense, discovers justificatory
reasons. In such a case the attitude is a very different one. It is
no longer the helpless hand-lifted attitude of the irresponsible
one, but the bold, steady-eyed attitude of one who is prepared to
defend his action.
Sometimes these justifications are pitiful examples of quib-
bling. A boy has been rough with his baby brother. His mother
chides him, telling him he might hurt baby. He then asks his
mother, " Isn't he my own brother ?" and on his mother admitting
so incontestable a proposition, exclaims triumphantly, " Well, you
said I could do what I liked with 7ny own things." The idea of
the precious baby being a boy's own to do what he likes with is
so remote from older people's conceptions that it is hard for us to
credit the boy with misunderstanding. We ought, perhaps, to set
him down as a depraved little sophist, and destined But pre-
dictions happily lie outside our metier.
In some cases these justifications have a dreadful look of being
after-thoughts invented for the express purpose of self-protection
and knowingly put forward as fibs. Yet there is need of a wise
discrimination here. Take, for example, the following from the
Worcester Collection : A boy of three was told by his mother to
stay and mind his baby sister while she went downstairs. On
going up again some time after, she met him on the stairs. Being
asked why he had left the baby, he said there was a bumblebee
in the room, and he was afraid he would get stung if he stayed
there. His mother asked him if he wasn't afraid his little sister
would get stung. He said " Yes," but added that if he stayed in
the room the bee might sting them both, and then she would have
two to take care of. Now, with every wish to be charitable I can
not bring myself to think that this small boy had really gone
through that subtle process of disinterested calculation before
vacating the room in favor of the bumblebee if indeed there was
a bumblebee. To be caught in the act and questioned is, I sus-
pect, a situation particularly productive of such specious fibbing.
One other illustration of this keen childish dialectic when face
to face with the accuser deserves to be touched on. The sharp
little wits have something of a lawyer's quickness in detecting a
