STUDIES OF CHILDHOOD. in
flaw in the indictment. Any exaggeration into which, a feeling of
indignation happens to betray the accuser is instantly pounced
upon. If, for example, a child is scolded for pulling kitty^s ears
and making her cry, it is enough for the little stickler for accu-
racy to be able to say : " I wasn't pulling kitty's ears, I was only
pulling one of her ears." This ability to deny the charge in its
initial form gives the child a great advantage, and robs the accu-
sation in its amended form of much of its sting. Whence, by the
way, one may infer that wisdom in managing children shows it-
self in nothing more than in a scrupulous exactness in the use of
words.
While there are these isolated attacks on various points of the
daily discipline, we see now and again a bolder line of action in
the shape of a general protest against its severity. Children have
been known to urge that the punishments inflicted on them are
ineffectual ; and although their opinion on such a matter is hardly
disinterested, it is sometimes pertinent enough. An American boy,
aged five years and ten months, began to cry because he was for-
bidden to go into the yard to play, and was threatened by his
mother with a whipping. Whereupon he observed, " Well now,
mamma, that will only make me cry more."
These childish protests are, as we know, wont to be met by the
commonplaces about the affection which prompts the correction.
But the child finds it hard to swallow these subtleties. For him
love is caressing him and doing everything for his present en-
joyment; and here is the mother who says she loves him, and
often acts as if she did, transforming herself into an ogre to tor-
ment him and make him miserable. He may accept her assurance
that she scolds and chastises him because she is a good mother ;
only he is apt to wish that she were a shade less good. A boy of
four had one morning to remain in bed till ten o'clock as a punish-
ment for misbehavior. He proceeded to address his mother on this
wise : " If I had any little children I'd be a worse mother than you
I'd be quite a bad mother. I'd let my children get up directly
I had done my breakfast, at any rate."
If, on the other hand, the mother puts forward her own com-
fort as the ground of the restraint, she may be met by this kind of
thing : " I wish you'd be a little more self-sacrificing and let me
make a noise."
Enough has been said to illustrate the ways in which the nat-
ural child kicks against the imposition of restraints on his free
activity. He begins by showing himself an open foe to authority.
For a long time after, while making a certain show of submission,
he harbors in his breast something of the rebel's spirit. He does
his best to avoid the most galling parts of the daily discipline, and
displays an admirable ingenuity in devising excuses for apparent
