114 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
him in his usual state of calm deportment. These ebullitions
were, however, of rare occurrence, and always of short duration."
On graduating, Lieutenant Bache was assigned to duty at the
academy as assistant professor. A year later he was transferred
at his own request to engineering service on the fortifications at
Newport, R. I., under Major (afterward General) J. G. Totten.
Here he remained two years. One of his recreations during this
period was making a collection of shells of mollusks.
In 1828, being then twenty-two years of age. Lieutenant Bache
resigned his commission in the army to accept a call to the chair
of Natural Philosophy and Chemistry at the University of Pennsyl-
vania. This change was welcome in more ways than one. He
was engaged to Miss Nancy Clarke Fowler, the daughter of an old
and highly respected citizen of Newport, but marriage was appar-
ently a remote prospect, for he had only the stinted pay of a lieu-
tenant of engineers, out of which he must contribute to the
support of his mother and her younger children. The salary of
his new position, however, justified him in hastening the happy
event.
His year's experience in teaching at West Point assisted Mr.
Bache in taking up his duties at the university. He was a very suc-
cessful instructor, and popular with his students. But he did not
rest content with imparting knowledge obtained by the labors of
others. He joined the Franklin Institute, then newly established,
and took a prominent part in its investigations for the promotion
of the mechanical arts.
For a full account of his labors in connection with this society
we must here be content with referring to the volumes of its
Journal from 1828 to 1835 inclusive. One of the most important
and fruitful of these was the investigation of the bursting of
steam boilers, of which he was the principal director. From in-
quiries and experiments, the latter not unattended with danger,
" the most frequent cause of explosion was found to be the grad-
ual heating of the boiler beyond its power of resistance ; and,
next to this, the sudden generation of steam by allowing the
water to become too low, and its subsequent contact with the
overheated metal of the sides and other portions of the boiler.
The generation of gas from the decomposition of water as a cause
of explosion was disproved, as was also the dispersion of water in
the form of spray through superheated steam."
Early in 1829 Mr. Bache was elected to membership in the
American Philosophical Society, and at once entered upon va-
rious researches in pure science in co-operation with his fellow-
members. With the aid of his wife and of his former pupil, John
F. Fraser, he determined with accuracy, for the first time in this
country, the periods of the daily variations of the magnetic
