ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 115
needle, and by another series of observations established the
connection between certain perturbations of the terrestrial mag-
netism and the aurora boreaiis. With Prof. Courtenay he inves-
tigated the magnetic dip at various places in the United States,
and with Mr. Espy made a minute survey of part of the track of
a tornado which visited New Jersey, June 19, 1835.
After Stephen Girard died, in 1833, Prof. Bache was elected
one of the trustees of the College for Orphans, founded by the
will of the childless merchant. Three years later the trustees
decided to select a president for the institution, in order that he
might go abroad and study European methods of education while
other preparations were being made. Prof. Bache, then only
thirty years of age, was selected for the position. Although re-
gretting the consequent interruption of his scientific researches,
in which he had become much absorbed, he accepted the appoint-
ment, and departed on his mission, September 30, 1836. Two years
were spent agreeably and profitably in Europe, and on his return
Prof. Bache made a report to the trustees embodying his observa-
tions on the schools of England, France, Prussia, Austria, Swit-
zerland, and Italy, with the many helpful conclusions and sugges-
tions that he had derived from these data. The document was
printed, making a large octavo volume.
As the preparations for opening the college were not yet com-
plete. Prof. Bache offered his services gratuitously to reorganize
the public schools of Philadelphia, and his offer was gladly accepted
by the municipal authorities. A year later, finding that the trus-
tees of the college were still unprepared to open the institution,
he relinquished the salary of his oflBce and accepted from the
city a much smaller compensation for his time. His work on the
public schools was completed in 1842, and resulted in a system
that has been taken as a model by other cities in various parts of
the United States. So highly were his labors appreciated that
the Central High School was frequently called Bache Institute.
Girard College having made very little progress, he now re-
signed all connection with it, and accepted his former chair at
the University of Pennsylvania, with its welcome opportunities
for scientific research. The preceding six years had by no means
been a blank with respect to his favorite investigations.' When
he went to Europe he took care to provide himself with a set of
portable instruments, with which, as a relief from the labors im-
posed by the special object of his mission, he made a connected
series of observations on the dip and intensity of terrestrial mag-
netism at important places on the Continent and in Great Britain.
After his return to Philadelphia he co-operated in the under-
taking of the British Association to determine by contempora-
neous observations at widely separated points the fluctuations of
