ii6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the magnetic and meteorological elements of the globe. He also
made in his summer vacations a magnetic survey of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Cramp, afterward the famous shipbuilder, was then
a boy in the high school, and assisted Prof. Bache in his obser-
vations.
Valuable instruments and methods for performing scientific
observations were devised by Bache during this period. He in-
vented an ingenious instrument for determining the dew point,
which is especially valuable where readings must be made by per-
sons without special scientific training. Only much later did he
learn that the principle of the device had already been used by
Belli, of Milan. He also introduced a modification of Osier's ane-
mometer and invented a thermoscope of contact, both of which
avoided difficulties involved in the use of previous instruments.
The way in which a man conducts a controversy is always a
severe test of his character. Bache had one with Denison Olmsted
on the periodical recurrence of meteors. Prof. Gould, in his Amer-
ican Association memoir, thus describes the occurrence: "Mr.
Bache maintained that there was no recurrence in 1834; Prof.
Olmsted, on the other hand, maintained the reverse. Prof. Bache
instituted special inquiries at the military posts (where, of course,
sentinels were on duty) along all the frontiers of the United States,
also among the night police of various cities, and at the universi-
ties, and he found but one exception to the statement that no un-
usual number of meteors was seen. Of this controversy Bache
wrote, in 1846 :
" * There is something yet to be found out on this subject which
may reconcile our opinions. Neither I nor any of those watching
with me, or for me, have seen an unusual number of meteors on
the night of the 12th of November in any year since the great
night at Philadelphia, and we have taken great pains to be sure.
Yet I can not doubt the testimony as given for some other places.
... I had a complimentary letter from the professor in regard to
my manner of conducting the controversy, which I valued more
highly than if I had gained the victory.' "
The year after Prof. Bache resumed his old position at the uni-
versity he was called to the superintendency of the United States
Coast Survey, left vacant by the death of Mr. Hassler. His ap-
pointment to this position was first suggested by members of the
American Philosophical Society, and the nomination was fully
concurred in by the other principal scientific and literary institu-
tions of the country.
Although the Coast Survey had been founded a quarter of a
century, the policy of Congress toward it had been changeable
and its appropriations limited. It had been suspended fifteen
years of that time, so that its work was but just begun. The At-
