I20 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that did not number liim among tlieir associates. He was Presi-
dent of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
in 1850 and 1851, of the American Philosophical Society in 1855
and 1856, and of the National Academy of Sciences from its estab-
lishment in 1863 until his death. He was a member also of the
Royal Society of London, the Imperial Academy of Sciences at
St. Petersburg, the Institute of France, the Royal Society of
Edinburgh, the Royal and Imperial Geographical Society of
Vienna, the Royal Academy of Turin, the Mathematical Society
of Hamburg, the Academy of Sciences in the Institute of Bologna,
the Royal Astronomical Society of London, and the Royal Irish
Academy of Dublin.
The degree of LL. D. was conferred upon him by the principal
American universities, and he received several medals from foreign
governments for his distinguished services to science in the course
of his labors on the Coast Survey and in other researches.
Mr. Bache was gifted with quick apprehension, and at the
same time with deep intelligence, which is not always allied to
the former quality. He had also great power of application.
When at the head of a body of workers those under him were
always nerved to do their best, because they saw that the master
did not spare himself. He was always ready to learn from others.
He would listen carefully to younger men if he saw that they had
ideas which might be developed to good purpose. After arguing
vehemently in opposition to the views of his brother on a matter
under consideration, he would often come out on the same side of
the question, and explain that his contention was designed to
draw out arguments.
In his home he dropped science, and was a genial companion
of old and young. Although not prepossessing in face, he was
charming in manner and disposition. He was a very lovable
man, and there was always plenty of company at his house in
Washington. His favorite relaxation was reading light novels.
He had a great appreciation of humor, but failed in trying to
contribute humorously to the entertainment of others.
As an evidence of his high appreciation of abstract science
derived from original investigation, he left his property in trust
to the National Academy of Sciences, the income to be devoted to
the prosecution of researches in physical and natural science, by
assisting experimenters and observers, and the publication of the
results of their investigations.
Appended to the memorial address by Dr. Benjamin A. Gould
already cited is a list of the published scientific papers of Prof.
Bache, embracing one hundred and twenty-three titles, besides
thirty-five annual reports, and twenty-one reports on harbors
made jointly with Messrs. Totten and Davis.
