CORRESP ONDEN CE.
121
C^rvjcsp omtinijcc*
ARE ANIMALS LEFT-HANDED?
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
In The Popular Science Monthly for
March, 1894, page 615, Prof. J. Mark Bald-
win says, in a footnote : " I know only the
assertion of Vierordt that parrots grasp and
hold food with the left claw, that lions strike
with the left paw, and his quotation from
Livingstone i. e., 'All animals are left-
handed.' (Vierordt, loc. cit., page 428.) Dr.
W. Ogle reports observations on parrots and
monkeys in Trans. Royal Med. and Chirur.
Society, 1871."
I have tried to verify these observations
on two parrots lately brought from Mexico.
I find that in grasping a finger offered as a
perch the parrots almost always put the left
foot forward. Usually the finger thus of-
fered is that of the right hand. But when
the left finger is offered to the parrots they
put forward the right foot. There is, how-
ever, apparently a small residuum of prefer-
ence for the left foot. This seems to be due
to the fact that men are usually right-handed
and offer the right hand to the parrot. The
left foot is the one naturally put forward by
the parrot in this case, and through repeti-
tion of this action a species of left-footed-
ness is induced. My general conclusion is
that there is no evidence that the parrot is
naturally left-footed. The appearance of
left-footedness is due entirely to the fact
that those who offer the finger or food to
parrots do so as a rule with the right hand.
Repetition of this process makes the parrot
more or less left-footed in time.
David S. Jordan.
Palo Alto, Cal., May 16, 1895.
certain birds. The blue jay not only mocks
the hawk, which I have heard him do hun-
dreds of times, but mocks also many other
birds. The catbird possesses this faculty
in a remarkable degree, and so rapidly does
he " change his tune " that if he was not
visible we should be apt to say. What a lovely
mocking bird you have singing in your apple
tree ! Don't again mistake the jay for a
hawk, for wherever you hear the jay he
mocks the hawk, redbird, and many of his
other neighbours. Yours truly,
W. A. Howard, M. D.
Waco, Texas, September 7, 1895.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Dear Sir: I noticed in the September
Monthly, in the article, Variation in the Hab-
its of Animals, by G. C. Davenport, that the
writer speaks of the blue jay (Cyanunis
cristata, or more recently Cyanodtta cristata)
as acquiring and using the cry of the hawk
in order to assist in the fight with Eng-
lish sparrows, and she seemed to imply that
it was an accomplishment of the blue jay in
that region only. I have heard in the wood-
ed lands of southeastern Indiana the blue
jay give a fairly good imitation of the shrill,
piercing, drawn-out cry of the large chicken
liawk {Buteo borealis) at different times for
as much as twenty years. I think this cry
has not been developed in this region, at
least, in the fight with recent enemies, but
rather that the blue jay robber and despoiler
that he is has now and then used this cry
to terrify smaller birds for untold years.
Yours truly.
Prof. Glenn Culbertson.
Hanover College, ITanoveb, Ind,,
September 19, 1895.
IMITATn^E HABITS OF THE BLUE
JAY.
Editw Popular Science Monthly :
Sir: In reading Variation in the Hab-
its of Animals, I see the author is not in
line with The Study of Birds Out-of-doors,
or she would not have written, " The prac-
tice of mocking the hawk is, at present at
least, confined, so far as I know, to the in-
dividuals of such limited area this one
town that with Mr. Ridgway we must be-
lieve this peculiarity exhibited by the blue
jay to be scarcely the ' manifestation of a
regional impress.' "
My boyhood and early manhood were
spent in the country, in middle Tennessee,
where I had ample opportunity to observe
the habits and, I might say, peculiarities of
ORIGIN OF THE TERM AGNOSTIC.
Editor Pcqndar Science Monthly :
Sir: In the September Forum appears
an article on Prof. Huxley by Richard H.
Hutton, editor of The Spectator, in which,
on pages 27 and 28, he states that Prof.
Huxley " claimed to be in the strictest sense
an Agnostic," and further states that Prof.
Huxley borrowed that term from an " inci-
dent related in the Acts of the Apostles,"
where reference is made to the fact that the
Athenians had erected an altar " Agnosto
Theo " to the Unknown God. Is not Mr,
Hutton mistaken in regard to the origin of
this term ? In a letter written to Mr. J. A.
Skilton, December 10, 1889, and published in
