122
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the Popular Science Monthly for June, 1890,
Mr. Huxley expressly states that the term
" Agnostic " was not suggested by the pas-
sage to which Mr. Hutton refers, but came
into his mind " as a fit antithesis to ' Gnos-
tic ' the ' Gnostics ' being those ancient
heretics who professed to know most about
those very things of which I am quite
sure I know nothing." As the use of the
term in theological discussion has become
universal, it is interesting to know how
Prof. Huxley came to introduce it
J. T. Gorman.
Opelika, Ala., September 14, 1895.
gtXitcrV^S Sitljl^"^-
TUE PRESENT POSITION OF
ANTHROPOLOGY.
AMONG the scientific addresses
- of the present year we are dis-
posed to assign a high place in point
of interest and general merit to that
on The Aims of Anthropology, de-
livered at the August meeting of the
American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science by the retir-
ing president, Prof. Brinton, and
reprinted in this number of the
Monthly. Like others who have ad-
vocated the claims of that science,
the professor almost overwhelms us
with the enumeration of all its tribu-
tary streams of knowledge ; but more
successfully than most, he enables us
to keep in view the unity of aim in
anthropological study. He makes
us feel that it is concerned not with
unrelated or but slightly related de-
tails in regard to man, but with man
himself, as a great organic fact, as
the crowning product of creation,
whom to know is for each of us
in the truest sense self-knowledge.
" Hearken unto me," said the prophet
of old, ' all ye that love righteous-
ness! Look unto the rock whence
ye are hewn, and the hole of the pit
whence ye are digged." It is in the
same spirit, we imagine, that Dr.
Brinton asks us to look into our ori-
gins, and into whatever else can
throw light upon what we really
are. As regards the origin of man,
science, he asserts, has now estab-
lished beyond cavil that, far from
having fallen from some original
high estate and foi'feited a pristine
paradise, the earliest man was also
" the lowest, the most ignorant, the
most brutish, naked, homeless, half
speechless." Such as he was, how-
ever, he had within him that which
made possible for him a progress
denied to all other animal races, that
secured for him long since the mas-
tery of the planet, and that holds
out to him the prospect of a future
civilization far in advance of any-
thing he has heretofore enjoyed.
The most vitalizing discovery
that has been made within recent
years, in its bearings upon anthro-
pology. Dr. Brinton considers to be
that of the psychical unity of man-
kind, "the parallelism of his devel-
opment everywhere and in all times;
nay, more, the nigh absolute uni-
formity of his thoughts and actions
when in the same degree of develop-
ment, no matter where he is or in
what epoch living." Seeing that
savage tribes represent a stage of
human culture which has left traces
in ourselves, but the perfect mani-
festation of which will soon have
passed away forever, he calls ear-
nestly for a ijrolonged and profound
study of such savage races as still
exist, though none of them are in
his opinion quite low enough to rep-
resent fully primitive n)an. He
also strongly recommends the study
