EDITOR'S TABLE.
123
of folklore, inasmuch as " the stories,
the superstitions, the beliefs, and
customs which prevail among the
unlettered, the isolated, and the
young, are nothing else than sur-
vivals of the mythologies, the legal
usages, and the sacred rites of earlier
generations. ... It is surprising,"
he adds, '" to observe how much of
the past we have been able to con-
struct from tliis humble and long-
neglected material."
The zeal of the learned doctor
seems almost to assume a slight
character of ferocity when he goes
on to declare: "The generations of
the past escape our personal inves-
tigation, but not our pursuit. We
rifle their graves, measure their
skulls, and analyze their bones; we
carry to our museums the utensils
and weapons, the gods and jewels,
which sad and loving hands laid be
side them; we dig up the founda-
tions of their houses, and cart oP the
monuments which proud kings set
up. Nothing is sacred to us; and
yet nothing to us is vile or worth-
less." If the doctor had wished to
quote Horace, he might have said
very appositely " omne sacrum ra-
piente dextrd'''' ; but we should be
loath to take him at his word that
to the anthropologist nothing is sa-
cred. We believe, on the contrary,
that to the true anthropologist the
cause of humanity is very sacred;
and that it is because an exhaustive
knowledge of what man has been
and is will, as he considers, greatly
advance human well-being, by plac-
ing our systems of instruction and
all our social arrangements on a
more scientific basis, that, in his con-
suming desire for knowledge, he is
prepared even for spoliation.
One of the most important branch-
es or subdivisions of anthropology is
ethnology. Its mission, Dr. Brinton
says, is " to define the universal in
humanity." It aims to define " the
influences which the geographical
and other environment exercises on
the individual, the social grovip, and
the race ; and conversely how much
in each remains imaltered by these
external forces. " Like political econ-
omy, according to its orthodox pro-
fessors at least, it has nothing to do
with what ought to be ; its sole con-
cern is with what is. Ethnology,
the doctor asserts with some empha-
sis, lends no countenance to any
absolute doctrine of evolution. He
considers that, " taken at its real
value, as the provisional and partial
result of our observations," that doc-
trine is a useful guide, but that,
" swallowed with unquestioning faith
as a final law of the universe," it is
no better than the narrowest tradi-
tional dogma. At this point we may
venture to suggest that the learned
doctor is waxing wroth with an
imaginary foe, or, if not with an
imaginary one, at least with one
hardly worthy of his ire. Idle talk
about evolution can no more be pre-
vented than idle talk about any
other subject, say electricity for ex-
ample, which some persons believe
to be a device, invented probably by
Mr. Edison, for getting something
out of nothing. No one whose opin-
ion is worth discussing regards evo-
lution otherwise than as a name for
the process by which such advance-
ment as the world has hitherto made
has been won, and on which we may
reasonably depend for further prog-
ress in the future. Nature as yet hav-
ing given no sign that her powers
are exhausted or on the lioint of ex-
haustion. " The development of hu-
manity as a whole," says Dr. Brin-
ton, " has arisen from the difi'erences
of its component parts, its races, na-
tions, tribes. Their specific peculiar-
ities have brought about the strug-
gles which, in the main, have result-
ed in an advance." Even so, we
may hope that in the future, in spite
