124
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of a growing equalization of general
conditions, those difPerences which,
as Dr. Tylor has well pointed out,
will more and more assert them-
selves in the higher regions of
thought and feeling, will lead to a
steady advance in human capacity
and character.
Anthropology, according to its
able advocate and professor, possesses
no little skill in dodging the most
difficult questions. Having investi-
gated penal laws until it finds their
common origin in a desire for venge-
ance, and having analyzed relig-
ions until it discovers that they all
spring from a dread of the unknown,
it will not follow up either inquiry
by attempting to ascertain why men
dread the unknown or whether there
is any more ultimate form or under-
lying explanation of the desire for
vengeance. In the same way, while
noting empirically what has made
for the improvenaent of mankind, it
will be careful about grappling with
the question as to what "improve-
ment" really means. Perhaps we
should not complain of these dis-
creetly imposed limitations, but it
seems to us that, as regards the ques-
tion of human improvement at least,
anthropology, with its very wide
outlook, ought, above all other sci-
ences, to be in a position to give us
its rationale.
We are glad to find Dr. Brinton,
in the conclusion of his valuable
address, declaring that "the teach-
ings of anthropology, whether theo-
retical or practical, lead us back to
the individual as the point of de-
parture and also the goal. The
state was made for him, not he for
the state ; any improvement in the
group must start by the improve-
ment of its individual members."
We hold that this is the teaching of
every true form of social science.
The doctrine of individualism is not
a doctrine of selfishness ; it simply
aims at arousing each individual to
a sense of his own value as a social
unit, and at making him feel that, if
he wishes to live in an improved
society, he should strive to improve
himself and his own immediate en-
vironment. The intelligent study of
sociology, we have no doubt, will
work in this direction, inasmuch as
it more and more tends to make all
classifications and class distinctions
appear unreal, and to bring the indi-
vidual man into . prominence as the
one subject and center of its labors.
On this ground, if on no other, we
would wish it every success; and as
there are so many dilferent fields
that can be explored in its interest,
we would counsel those who have no
other scientific occupation to see if
they can not bn'ng some offering,
however slight, to the great con-
struction which we may hope the
leaders of the science will one day
give to the world.
EELIGION FOE THE AGE.
Canon Samuel A. Barnett, of
England, is a man who has devoted
much time and labour to the study
of social problems in their widest
aspect, and whose writings on such
subjects are always marked by ac-
tive human sympathy allied with
strong common sense. We therefore
turned at once with interest to his
article in the September number of
the Contemporary Review to see
what he had to say on the subject
of The Church's Opportunity, and
were not at all surprised to find that
he had some very pertinent things
to say. In Canon Barnett's opinion
" the Church " might, if it could only
rise to the level of its duty and privi-
lege, lend most useful assistance to
the practical solution of our present-
day social problems. How this might,
in his opinion at least, be done he
clearly indicates. The Church per-
