EDITOR'S TABLE.
125
forms three main functions : it pro-
vides means of worship, it imparts
religious teaching, and it interests
itself in cliaritable work; and what
it has to do, according to Canon Bar-
nett, is simply, in each department
of its activity, to plant itself at the
modern standpoint so as to meet the
needs of the men and women of to-
day.
In the matter of worship this
writer observes that " the words and
forms remain the same as those
which helped the people of three
hundred years ago, although the fash-
ions, the thought, and the whole
organization of society have been
changed. " Cathedrals are little more
than "the hunting ground of anti-
quarians and the practising places
of choirs." The Church should "use
the art and knowledge of the time
as aids to worship." " It might," con-
tinues the writer, "by showing the
wonders of science, open the eyes of
the blind to see something of the
height and breadth of the universe " ;
and the result would be that readier
access v/ould be found to men's minds
for those sentiments of justice, char-
ity, and mutual forbearance on which
the peace and welfare of society must
rest. Canon Barnett is quite right
when, speaking of the social strug-
glers of to-day, he says that " conceit,
pride in their own methods and aims,
restless vanity, selfish anxiety are
elements in the present confusion " ;
nor are we disposed to disagree with
him when he says further that "the
majority of people think much of
themselves, because they are not con-
scious of One before whom they are
as nothing, because, in a word, they
do not worship." Here is where the
true work of religion comes in, not in
opposing the conclusions of science.
"Let science grow from more to more,"
as Tennyson has said,
" But more of reverence in us dwell."
The two are not incompatible, and
Canon Barnett seems to feel strongly
that it is through neglect of duty on
the part of the Church, especially the
duty of keeping in touch with the
times, that reverence is not more act-
ive and influential among men than
it is.
Turning to the subject of teach-
ing, this writer is very outspoken.
He says in effect that we must find
the teaching required by the times
in a study of the times. The follow-
ing quotation will illustrate his mean-
ing : "In the first century slavery
was common, and was accepted with-
out question both by Christ and by St.
Paul. . . . These teachers, however
(the antislavery leaders of the early
part of the century), found the spirit
behind the words the Christ of the
nineteenth century behind the Christ
of the first century. In the name
of a contemporary Christ they con-
demned slavery and convinced their
hearers." The reverend gentleman
does not observe, as he might have
done, that those who appealed merely
to the text of Scripture were among
the strongest upholders of slavery.
The reformers were more or less ra-
tionalizers, not pinning their faith to
texts, but seeking a spirit and prin-
ciple of life. The following remarks
on religious teaching are much to the
point : " Teachers have been too often
stewards who bring out only the
old things from the treasury, words
spoken thousands of years ago, and
acts fitted to another age. They go
on using a phraseology which is not
understood, preaching sermons about
dead controversies, and condemning
heresies long forgotten. They teach,
but the people, tried and troubled by
thoughts of duty to the rich or duty
to the poor, find no help in their
teaching. . , . Bishops might with
advantage set candidates for orders
to read modern books, and in exami-
nation test their powers to observe
