126
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tlie signs of the times. The knowl-
edge of Paley and Pearson might be
supplemented, if not supplanted, by
some knowledge of the movement of
scientific and economic thought dur-
ing the last fifty years, and pi-oof be
given that those offering themselves
as teachers ' perceive with their eyes
and hear with their ears and under-
stand with their hearts.' "
The canon proceeds to discuss the
relation of tlie Church to charitable
work, but what we have already
quoted will suffice to show how ad-
vanced are his views as to the kind
of religious ministrations of which
society stands at present in need.
He believes, and we agree with him,
that the Church occupies a position
of exceptional advantage for holding
up to men the ideals toward which
they ought to strive. Ministers of
religion are allowed to preach, an
exercise in which other men must
indulge very sparingly, if at all, on
pain of being laughed at. They are
supposed to be occupied at all times
with the highest and most enduring
interests of mankind, and they can
adopt a tone of elevation and an ac-
cent of earnestness which in all oth-
ers miglit seem out of place. More-
over, there is something in human
nature which is prepared to respond
to their appeals. However conven-
tional or even sordid men may be in
their daily lives, however immersed
they may be in the all but universal
game of grab, they feel that some-
where in their natures is a chord
which might vibrate to higher im-
pulses. To put it otherwise, every
man knows that there is something
iu him better than that which he
habitually shows to the world or to
himself ; and it is for the religious
teacher above all to awaken that hid-
den, as Matthew Arnold says, " deep-
buried self " into life and activity, to
make it assert its authority and pow-
er. The rest of us deal with the aver-
age man and make our appeal in
general to average sentiments: the
clergyman, the minister of the gos-
pel, testifies by virtue of bis office to
the existence of a divine element in
human nature, and to him therefore,
in dealing with men, all things are
or should be possible. What he
needs, however, as Canon Barnett so
clearly points out, is to be armed with
the kind of knowledge which will
Ijlace him at the modern point of
view and make him a true interpreter
of the times and of contemporary
human nature. Let him use the
words of his creeds as far as they
will go, and show the soul of truth
in antiquated forms and usages; but
let him not imagine that human
thought can ever be confined within
or fully expressed by, any formula
or set of formulas : the spirit of life is
a spirit of growth and of liberty.
In conclusion, we have only to
say that we welcome most cordially
such utterances as those of the An-
glican canon, not because we suppose
that he occupies precisely the point
of view that we do, but because we
feel that no essential claim of science
is antagonized by aught that he ad-
vances in the name of religion. He
may, for anything we know, hold
many special opinions which we do
not share ; but^ so, these to us are of
no consequence beside what we take
to be his main and most characteristic
belief namely, that religion is not
a fetter for the human intellect, but
a garment of beauty for the whole
man, and that, without a due recog-
nition of science, no perfect or abid-
ing form of religion can be.
HOST. DAVID A. WELLS'S ABTICLES ON
TAXATION.
The editor of the Popular Science
Monthly is gratified that he is now
able to announce to its readers and
the general public, the beginning in
