SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE, 129
with their leaves, the author describes the chief forms of leaves, but in such
a way as to indicate that each form results from an effort of the plant to
meet some particular need. Roots are described in the same way. Under
the headings How Plants Marry and Various Marriage Customs, the inter-
esting subjects of fertilization and the production of seed are explained.
In tbe chapter What Plants Do for their Young the chief provisions for
tlie dissemination of seeds and the nutrition of the germs within them are
described. Some acquaintance with the characteristics of the chief kinds
of plants is given under the heading Some Plant Biographies, where whit-
low gi-ass, the Mexican agave, the beech tree, the vetch, the coltsfoot, etc., are
described. Throughout the book the reasons of things and the adaptation
of means to ends are made prominent. The author states that he has
'' freely admitted the main results of the latest investigations, accepting
throughout the evolutionary theory, and making the study of plants a first
introduction to the modern principles of heredity, variation, natural selec-
tion, and adaptation to the environment." He says further that he will be
disappointed if this little book does not lead the reader to pursue the sub-
ject in the fields and woods by the aid of a flora. We do not think he will
be disappointed.
Is there any limit to the operation of the evolutionary process within
the universe as known to us ? Is man an exception, and does the popular
phrase "' lord of creation" mark a real distinction ? Mr. Edmond Kelly* is
convinced that man is an exception now, although subject to evolution
during the earlier part of his career. Man has developed physically and
mentally as other animals have. In a struggle for existence he has shown
himself the fittest of all to survive. But now, says Mr. Kelly, this mode of
progress has stopped. Under the influence of religion man has developed
the faculty of choice and the power of self-restraint, and he is now repress-
ing some of the instincts by which he advanced during his evolutionary
period, thereby better fitting himself to live in the social relation. As a
member of society he has many grave problems before him, among which
Mr. Kelly calls especial attention to municipal misgovernment, pauperism,
socialism, and education. Religion is recommended as the guide to be fol-
lowed in solving them. It might be queried how religion is to remedy
the abuses in public afi'airs that have grown up when religion had a
stronger hold upon men than it has now. Mr. Kelly recognises that
abuses have grown up under and apparently in connection with religion,
but he afiirms that theology and various clei'ical institutions were then
dominant rather than real religion. He would by no means bring back
the partnership of Church and State where it has been dissolved, but would
have religion govern individuals in their performance of social duties. It
might be supposed that it would be a matter of indifi:'erence to Mr. Kelly
whether religion or science were taken as the guide in social affairs, since
he takes pains to show that they reach the same goal. Perhaps he could
be brought to admit that, in a certain stage of their progress, men are less
fitted to follow the guidance of the former than that of the latter. At the
present time they are rapidly acquiring the capacity to govern their con-
duct on scientific principles, but they have so far had great trouble in keep-
* Evolution and EfEorL By Edmond Kelly. New York : D. Appleton & Co. Pp. 297, 12mo.
Price, $1.25.
VOL. XLVIII. 9
