130
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing in touch with their guide when they have attempted to regulate their
conduct by religion. Perhaps they may be able to do so in the future,
but we think the evolutionai^y process which Mr. Kelly believes is ended
must go on some time longer before man can afford to dispense with the
aid which the scientific method gives him.
The bird-loving amateur need be at no loss for guidance. Three man-
uals adapted to his wants have come to us recently, the latest being a
charmingly attractive one entitled Birdcraft* Emerson's query, "Hast
thou named all the birds without a gun ? " is its motto, and any one who
will identify half the species it describes, or verify half it tells about their
general apiDcarance, habits, and song, will have occupation enough for sev-
eral seasons without paying attention to the matters that can be learned
only from the dead bird. The sprightliness of the smaller birds makes
them delightful subjects of study, their elusiveness adds zest to their pur-
suit, while the various mental and moral traits indicated by the actions of
all kinds well deserve the attention of the psychologist. This instance of
the extreme politeness ascribed to the cedar waxwing was observed by the
author : "A stout green worm (for they eat animal as well as vegetable
food) was passed up and down a row of eight birds; once, twice it went the
rounds, until halfway on its third trip it became a wreck and dropped to
the ground, so that no one enjoyed it a commentary, in general, upon
useless ceremony," Much pains is taken to represent the songs of the
birds described ; thus the song of the red-eyed vireo is given in the words
of Wilson Flagg as "You see it! you know it! do you hear me? do you
believe it ? " The bluebird seems to murmur, " Dear, dear, think of it, think
of it 1 " The Carolina wren cries joyfully, " Sweetheart, sweetheart, sweet ! "
while there are several versions of the bobolink's rippling song to choose
from, and any one may make another to suit his fancy. The song birds by
no means monopolize the volume ; birds of prey, game birds, shore birds,
and waterfowl are all represented by sj^ecies to be seen in southern New
England. Fifteen double-page plates, each bearing from seven to twenty
figures of birds in their natural colours, greatly enhance the value of the
hook.
GENERAL NOTICES.
In Dr. Kerner's Natural History of
Plants \ all the features of the growth,
structure, and metamorphoses of vegetation
are examined in tbeir relations to one an-
other. Interest was first excited in plants,
we are told, by the question of their uses.
Other avenues to botanical knowledge have
been man's sense of beauty and the impulse
to investigate structural differences even
* Birdcraft. By Mabel Osgood Wright. Illus-
trated. New York and London : Macmillan &
Co. Pp. 317, small 8vo. Price, $3 net.
t The Natural History of Plants. From the
German of Anton Kerner von Marilaiin. By F.
W. Oliver. New York: Henry Holt & Co. Half
Volnmes I and II. Pp.777. Price, $7.50. Lon-
don : Blackie & Son. Price, 35s. net.
down to their most minute characteristics.
This has brought the science to its present
condition. In addition to these steps, the
passion for collecting has been developed.
In the later stages of the growth of botany
observers have become convinced that every
plant undergoes a continuous transformation
which follows a definite course, and every
species is constructed on a plan fixed within
general limits and exhibiting variation in ex-
ternals only. The systematic arrangement
that has grown out of the application of
these principles starts with the idea that
rather than by similarity between adult
forms the relationships of different plants
are more correctly indicated by the fact of
their exhibiting the same laws of growth
