S CIENTIFIC LIT ERA T URE.
131
and the same phenomena of reproduction.
As the beginning of the plants and of the
study of them we are told of the living prin-
ciple in them, represented by the protoplasts,
which are considered as the seat of life, and
of their movements, secretions, and construct-
ive activity, and their communication with one
another and with the outer world. The next
steps are the absorption of nutriment from
inorganic substances and organic and the
changes it produces in the soil; the con-
duction of food ; and the formation of or-
ganic matter from the absorbed inorganic
food, with the functions of chlorophyll and
the green leaves. Metabolism and the trans-
port of materials are considered with refer-
ence to the organic compounds in plants, the
transport of substances in living plants, and
the propelling forces in the conversion and
distribution of materials. Under the head-
ing of the Growth and Construction of Plants
are included the Theory of Growth, Growth
and Heat, and the Ultimate Structure of
Plants. The last chapter of the present
volume relates to plant forms as completed
structures, and in it are discussed the pro-
gressive stages in complexity of structure
from unicellular plants to plant bodies and
the forms of leaf, stem, and root structures.
The volume concludes with the observation
that the just pride and satisfaction we may
have in what we have gained in the knowl-
edge of plants "must not blind us to the
recognition of the fact that most questions
concerning the life of plants are as yet only
at the commencement of their solution."
The work is illustrated by about one thou-
sand original wood-cuts and sixteen plates in
oil colors.
Menschutkiii' s AnalyUcal Chemistry'^- is
a college manual embracing both qualita-
tive and quantitative analysis. Its most
distinctive feature is the care that the au-
thor has taken to make the student under-
stand the reasons for what he is doing. In
the qualitative determination of metals the
corresponding compounds of all the metals
of a group are studied, and the conditions
necessary for the separation of one group
from another are deduced (General Reac-
* Analytical Chemistry. By N. Meuschutkin.
Translated by James Locke. London and Kew
York: Macmillan & Co. Pp.512, 8vo. Price, $4
net.
tions), after which the behavior of the
compounds relied upon for detecting single
metals (Special Reactions) is considered. A
systematic course of analysis for the group
in hand follows. With the metalloids, on
the contrai-y, the special reactions of these
elements and their compounds are first con-
sidered, and the student then passes to the
complicated methods required for detecting
the elements when occurring together. In
the quantitative part the chief methods of
gravimetric and volumetric analysis and the
analysis of organic compounds are set forth.
Here the author has followed also, so far a3
practicable, the procedure employed in the
qualitative part.
It is generally accepted now that all life
originated in the sea, and very probably in
the littoral or coast region. The constantly
varying conditions here, due to the surf and
the tides, doubtless had a large share in de-
termining form and structure ; the violence
of the surf beating its inhabitants to death,
and the retreat of the tide exposing them to
the attacks of predatory birds and beasts
and to new atmospheric conditions. Hence
in all probability have originated the various
forms of adaptation which are calculated to
bring about the survival of the fittest. The
widespread effect of these factors in shaping
present forms lends a special interest to the
study of the littoral life of to-day. The general
plan of classification in the work before us *
is not that of any single authority. The au-
thors have adopted the views of the leading
specialists in the various groups. While
this has the advantage of placing before the
student the results of recent investigation,
it occasions a certain number of discrepan-
cies where the departments overlap, which
are likely to lead to confusion. Up to re-
cent times the moUusca have been regarded
as one of the four subdivisions of the great
family Malacozoa. The progress of investi-
gation, however, tends to the belief that the
mollusca are not so closely related to these
groups as such a classification implies. The
authors think that any attempt definitely to
relate them to one group or another is to go
* Mollusks and Recent and Foseil Brachiopods.
Vol. in of the Cambrdge Natural Eistory. By
A. H. Cooke, A. E. Shipie;-. and F. R. C. Reed.
London and New York: Macmillan & Co. Pp.
535. Price, $3.60.
