132
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
further than the present state of our knowl-
edge warrants. The group Brachiopoda owes
its chief interest to the immense variety and
great antiquity of its fossil forms. There
are at the present time only about one hun-
dred and twenty extant species. The study
of the mollusca occupies 460 pages, the re-
mainder of the work being devoted to the
brachiopods. The book is intended appar-
ently as a student's manual. The description
is clearly written and contains considerable
historical narrative and many good illustra-
tions.
Mr. C odd justifies his Primer of Evolu-
tion* an abridgment of his Story of Crea-
tion, by the reception which the larger work
received, and the necessity for putting the
material into a condensed and inexpensive
form in order to reach the general reader.
The first portion is descriptive : matter and
motion, from the philosophical standpoint ;
the distribution of matter and the solar sys-
tem; and finally two long chapters on the
past life history of the earth and present life
forms, compose Part I. Part II, the explana-
tory portion, has chapters on the becoming
and growth of the universe, the origin of
life and life forms, on the origin of species,
and social evolution. The book is written in
a popular style, and seems an improvement
on its more bulky predecessor.
The high disciplinary value of the study
of psychology, which gives a scientific basis
to education and lifts it out of empiricism, is
distinctly shown in the volume before us.f
The authors have pointed out, in a very in-
teresting manner, the application of psychol-
ogy to number. They say that the teacher
who knows how the mind works in the con-
struction of number is prepared to help the
child to think number. They take the posi-
tion that the normal activity of the mind in
constructing number is highly pleasurable.
This is confirmed by actual experience and
observation of facts in child-life. There are
few children who do not delight in counting,
and the fact should be taken advantage of
* A Primer of Evolution. By Edward Clodd.
London and New York: Longmans, Green & Co.
Pp. 18G. Price, 75 cents.
t Psychology of Number. By Dr. J A. Mc-
Clellan and Prof. John Dewey. International
Education Series. New York: D. Appleton &
Co. Pp. 309, 12mo. Price, $1.50.
by instructors. A sympathetic and compe-
tent teacher can interest them so keenly that
apparently wonderful results may be ob-
tained with but little difficulty.
The authors speak of how an absolute dis-
taste for number is created by faulty meth-
ods of teaching, with arrested development as
a natural result. They say it is perhaps not
too much to affirm that nine tenths of those
who dislike arithmetic, or who at least feel
that they have no aptitude for mathematics,
owe this misfortune to wrong teaching at
first. The teacher can readily learn from an
intelligent study how to make the work of
the schoolroom consistent with the method
under which by Nature's teaching the child
has already secured some development of the
number activity. Beginning with a group,
counting, parting, and wholing are all in har-
mony with Nature's method, which " promotes
the natural exercise of mental function and
leads gradually but with ease and certainty to
true ideas of number. It minimizes the diffi-
culty with which multiplication and division
have hitherto been attended, and helps the
child to recognize in the dreaded terra incog-
nita of fractions a pleasant and familiar land."
The authors' remarks concerning kinder-
garten work are sound and are based upon
results that are evident to all. There is a
sure and pleasurable way, along the line of
least resistance, that may be followed in the
kindergarten, with great improvement in the
method of preparation for a child's work
later. The authors say : " Surely something
is lacking, either in the kindergarten as a
preparation for the primary school or in the
primary school as a continuation of the kin-
dergarten, when a child after full training in
the kindergarten, together with three years'
work in the primary school, is considered
able to undertake nothing beyond the ' num-
ber twenty.' " They add that under rational
and pleasurable training of the number in-
stinct in the kindergarten the child ought to
be arithmetically strong enough to make
immediate acquaintance with the number
twenty, and rapidly acquire, if he has not
already acquired, a working conception of
much larger numbers.
In the easiest possible manner the authors
go on to explain every process of number,
and the presentation is such as to interest
any one impressed with the necessity of a
