128 COULTER AND ROSE
This species agrees with Neonelsonia in all essential particulars, and
we have no hesitation in referring it to that genus. It differs from N.
ovata C. & R. in its stronger nerved leaflets of firmer texture, and in
the dense ring of short glandular hairs at base of petioles and peti-
olules, as well as in other details.
The type of this species comes from South America, doubtless not
far from the locality of the first specimens referred to above, and the
species is restricted to South America. It is stated in the Kew Index
to be from Mexico, and is likewise included by Mr. Hemsley in the
Biologia Centrali-Af7iericana. It should be excluded from Mexico
as well as from Guatemala ; at least the only Mexican specimen re-
ferred to by Mr. Hemsley {^Bourgeau 2837) is a very different species.
This specimen is only in flower and its identification was uncertain.
Good fruiting specimens, however, were obtained by Mr. Seaton near
Bourgeau's locality which permit its characterization, and it is de-
scribed below as Arr acacia keftisleyana. The Guatemalan plant re-
ferred to by Mr. Hemsley in the Biologia proves to be Neonelsonia
ovata C. & R.
2. Neonelsonia ovata C. & R. Contr. Nat. Herb. 3: 307. 1895.
Guatemala: from mountains near Hacienda of Chancol, altitude
3300 meters, Nelson 3646, January 2, 1896.
Mr. W. B. Hemsley, in a recent letter, writes that Salvin's plant
from Volcan de Fuego, in Guatemala, should be referred to the
above rather than to Arracacia.
14. DONNELLSMITHIA C. & R. Bot. Gaz. 15: 15. pi. 2. 1890.
This genus still remains monotypic and restricted to Guatemala, the
single species being D. giiatemalensis C. & R.
15. MUSINEON Raf. Jour. Phys. 91: 71. 1820.
A genus of four species, three of which belong to the United States
(Rocky Mountains and plains to the eastward from Colorado north-
ward), and the fourth, jST. alpinum C. & R., is a native of the high
mountains of southern Mexico.
16. MUSENIOPSIS C. & R. Rev. N. Am. Umbell. 123. 1888.
This genus has proved to be one of the large genera of Mexican
Umbel liferae, nineteen species being enumerated below, seventeen of
which are endemic. A revision was published by us in 1895, in
Contr. Nat. Herb. 3: 301-304. Since that time much new material
