MEXICAN AND CENTRAL AMERICAN UMBELLIFER^ 1 29
has been received, which seems to justify a re-enumeration of the
species. Under the species repeated from the former revision only
critical remarks and new stations are given.
In his revision of the Umbelliferas in Engler & Prantl's Nat.
PJia7izenfa7n. Drude makes Museniopsis a section under Velcea.
Elsewhere in this paper we show that Velcea proper must be included
in Arracacia^ a fact which Drude admits in his supplement. This
leaves Drude's sections Miiseniopsis and Deweya unprovided for, and
in our judgment they should both be restored to generic rank.
Synopsis of the Species.
Acaulescent or nearly so; peduncles single, terminal, elongated; in-
volucel of toothed bractlets.
Leaflets ovate, toothed; peduncles i to 1.2 dm. long; fruit obtuse.
1. M. texa7ia.
Leaflets filiform; peduncles 3 dm. long; fruit acutish.
2. AI. tenuifoUa.
More or less ca?ilesce?tt, much branched; peduncles numerous, short,
both terminal and lateral ; involucels either wanting or filiform
and entire.
Biennials from small globose or spindle-shaped tubers.
Basal leaves with ovate, toothed leaflets ; involucre and involu-
cels pi'esent 3. 31. biennis.
Basal leaves with linear leaflets.
Pedicels much longer than fruit ; lateral umbels often sessile.
Involucre present ; leaflets more or less toothed.
4. J/. 7?iadrensis.
Involucre wanting ; leaflets more elongated and mostly entire.
5. HI. sub/>io7ita7ia.
Pedicels about as long as fruit; lateral umbels not sessile.
Fruit slightly beaked 6. M. tenuissi77ia.
Fruit obtuse.
Rays less than 2.5 cm. long; fruit not glaucous.
7. M. tubcrosa.
Rays more than 2.5 cm. long; fruit glaucous.
8. M. glauca.
Perennials from long, slender, and sometimes thickened roots.
Basal leaves with linear, elongated, and entire leaflets.
Glaucous; fruit obtuse, with obsolete ribs; lateral umbels
often sessile.
Involucral leaf solitary, elongated ; fruit smaller and leaflets
shorter than in the next 9. J/. ter7iata.
Involucre wanting; leaflets very long; fruit large for the
genus 10. il/. schaff7ieri.
Glabrous, not glaucous; involucre wanting; no umbels sessile.
Flowers purple 1 1. M. purpurea.
Flowers yellow.
