MEXICAN AND CENTRAL AMERICAN UMBELLIFER^ 1 39
18. ARRACACIA Bancr. in Jamaic. Jour. 4: 18. 1826.
A Mexican and Central American genus extending into South
America, with one species (the type) in Jamaica. Hemsley enumer-
ated twelve species, only five of which bear names. Of these A.
acuminata Benth. is referred below to Neonelsonia ; A. dectimbens
Benth. is referred below to Taiischia ; while A. glaucescens Benth.
is restricted to South America. This leaves but two of the named
species cited by Hemsley: A. atropiirpiirea Benth. & Hook, and A.
tolucensis Hemsley. Two species, cited by Hemsley under other
genera, we have transferred to Arracacia^ viz., Tauschia coulteri
Gray and Smyrniuni cegopodioides H.B.K.
Since 18S0 fourteen new species of Arracacia from our region
have been described, five of which have been transferred to Tauschia.
In addition to these we describe below seven new species, making the
total enumeration of the species of Arracacia found in Mexico and
Central America reach twenty, all of which are endemic. Of the
four remaining species of the genus, three belong to South America
and one to Jamaica.
The genus Arracacia appears to be properly characterized as con-
taining forms which are tall and branching, with ternate leaves, sharply
ribbed fruit, and conical stylopodium. The allied genus Tajtschia^
on the other hand, contains forms which are low and acaulescent or
nearly so, with pinnate leaves, obtuse ribs, and no stylopodium.
We present an enumeration of all the known species of Arracacia^
with descriptions of new species and citations of collections received
since the publication of our former paper.
1. Arracacia andina Britton, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 18: 37. 1891.
This species, collected by Dr. Rusby in South America, seems not
to be an Arracacia.
2. Arracacia aegopodioides (H.B.K.) C. & R. Plate XI.
Synyrmtim agopodicides H.B.K. Nov. Gen. & Spec. 5: 16. 1821.
Museniopsis cegopodioides C. & R. Contr. Nat. Herb. 3 : 302. 1895, as to
reference, but not as to plant.
Hidalgo: on the Sierra de Pachuca, altitude 2700 meters, Pringle
6934, July 28, 1898 ; same station. Rose <& Hough 4481, June i,
1899; same station, Pringle 7905, October 5, 1899.
The type of this species was collected by Humboldt & Bonpland
(altitude 2550 meters) and is now in the Berlin Herbarium. Through
the kindness of Dr. K. Schumann we have seen a fragment of the
type and also a photograph of it, which is here reproduced. Mr.
Pringle's plant seems to agree with it and the species is herewith trans-
