DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLtjMBIA 163
secure a convenient location for the Federal capital. One of
the elements, however, which is important in treating the
'economic development of the District of Columbia, must be con-
sidered. The commissioners appointed to select a site after the
cessions by Maryland and Virginia were actuated very largely
by the dream of making the Federal capital a great commercial
center ; but in most cases dreams go by contraries, and this was
not an exception. Nevertheless, the hope which inspired Wash-
ington himself, that the new city was destined to become the
** greatest commercial emporium" in the United States, was not
without reason, and when the particular location was determined
upon, facts and prospects were sufficient to sustain this dream.
Of course, a central position, accessibility, agreeable surround-
ings, were necessary elements in considering the particular
location.
The President was given great latitude in the choice of the
site. He could locate the city anywhere "between the eastern
branch of the Potomac, Anacostia, and the Conogocheague," a
stream entering the Potomac at Williamsport, Md. With his
great familiarity with the whole territory from which the site
could be selected, Washington determined upon the present
location of the capital. Georgetown, Alexandria, and Carrolls-
burg (where the Arsenal now stands), were in existence, but the
site of the capital was located between Georgetown and Alexan
dria, in a section without population except a few farmers.
The economic considerations for the selection lay in the fact
that the site was at the head of navigation of the Potomac river
and at the terminus of the projected Chesapeake & Ohio Canal.
Transportation in that period followed water-courses. Con-
gress, very naturally, paid little attention to land routes. Wash-
ington had his eye on what he considered the double advantage
of a site which should be at the junction of inland and tide navi-
gation. The Chesapeake & Ohio Canal was projected in 1784,
and it was supposed that with its construction the middle west
would find an outlet for its products either at Georgetown or at
Alexandria, and that Alexandria, then being something of an
important port, shipping to all parts of the country and to
Europe, would increase and emphasize the wisdom of the
