164 WRIGHT
selection at the head of tide water. This was the dream for
the greatest commercial emporium in the United States. Trans-
portation by steam power was not anticipated, although Wash-
ington himself knew something of its efficiency in manufactures,
and prophesied its use in transportation — probably not however
to such an extent as to remove from his own mind the thought
that the river and the canal would serve as great tracks of
travel and freight and bring to the new capital that commercial
prosperity which he longed to see.
The Chesapeake & Ohio Canal, although projected at the
early date named, amounted to little until 1836, when 64 miles
were completed and in operation. It has had an influence in
the commercial and mercantile development of the District of
Columbia, but not sufficient to warrant its being considered as
one of the moving influences in this direction. It was an aid
in developing the District for a time, but whatever influence it
exerted in bringing the products of the soil and of the mines to
the inhabitants of the District, the influence was not felt in any
pronounced commercial sense ; certainly this influence was not
equal to that of the Potomac as a waterway. Ultimately rail-
roads brought new influences to bear upon the development of
Washington, and the canal became only a side issue.
Georgetown and Alexandria were brought in as parts of the
District of Columbia, the first-mentioned place having a popu-
lation in 1810 of nearly 5000 ; it cannot be stated separately
from the District for any prior period. Alexandria in 1790 had
a population of 2748, and in 1800, when the capital was re-
moved to the District of Columbia, nearly 5000. The popula-
tion of the rest of the tract was insignificant. At the beginning,
in the 100 miles square composing the District there were 14,-
093 persons.
The farmers of that tract lying between Carrollsburg and
Georgetown sold all the land which was needed for public build-
ings and improvements for 25 pounds per acre. All the lands
in the city limits were placed in the hands of trustees. The
largest owners of the site of the District made an agreement
March 30, 1791, to convey to the government out of their farms
all the lands which might be needed for streets, avenues, and
