DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 165
public reservations free of cost. The government divided into
building lots and apportioned between itself and the owners all
the rest of the land in the District ; it was to sell small lots and
out of their proceeds pay for large ones. The government
made an excellent bargain, and it was fortunate also that there
were few owners to deal with and no extensive improvements
for demolishing which damages would accrue. Here, again,
was one of the economic advantages of the location of the Dis-
trict, for had any large city been selected as a site there would
have been great expense on account of the purchase and re-
moval of buildings necessary for the erection of government
buildings. The new government was not obliged to advance a
dollar for the land which came into its possession. There were
10,136 building lots assigned to the government, which in time
proved worth $850,000. Taking into consideration the public
reservations and streets, the government acquired a tract of
600 acres in the heart of the city. Certainly Washington made
a good bargain in the interest of the new government.
The commissioners appointed by Congress acted with very
commendable speed, for while the cessions of Virginia and
Maryland were accepted finally by the act of July 16, 1790,
Washington reported to Congress January 10, 1791, that he had
fixed the confines of the District. The commissioners ran
their lines and the corner-stone was laid April 15, I79i> at
Jones's Point, near Alexandria.
It should be remembered that the credit of the Federal gov-
ernment was on a very low plane at the time the Federal capital
was located. The expansive plan for the city projected by
Major L'Enfant, who drew his inspiration from the cities of the
Old World, anticipated the expenditure of large sums of money.
His plan was by many considered altogether too grand and
chimerical. He really planned a city for half a million, and for
this purpose he projected broad avenues, circles, squares, parallel
streets and all the other details necessary to secure beauty and
uniqueness. The engineer wished to provide for space without
incurring waste of land, and symmetry without sameness. All
these things resulted in differing opinions as to the future of the
capital city. Some thought it an excellent field for speculation ;
