1 66 WRIGHT
others were content to see the capital of the nation simply a
rendezvous for congressmen for the purpose of passing laws
and then adjourning. Very many of the most patriotic citizens
of the time hoped that the city of Washington would never be-
come a place of any considerable size. Mr. John Addison
Porter, in his interesting work on ' The City of Washington :
Its Origin and Administration,' in speaking of this condition of
affairs, uses the following language :
After the first influx of speculators — among whom none
bought more largely or lost more heavily than Robert Morris,
' The Superintendent of Finance,' and friend of the govern-
ment during the dark days of 1781 — the sale of real estate lan-
guished. Foreigners seemed to have more confidence than na-
tives in the success of the experiment. Engraved plans of the
city had been well distributed abroad ; Congress passed a law
allowing aliens to hold land in the city ; and for a long time lots
brought absurdedly high prices in London. But after 1794, the
home trade ceased almost entirely. There were some legal diffi-
culties in transferring real estate. One of the main reasons,
however, why the city did not grow fast, was that Congress
could not remove thither for a number of years.
Washington, himself, proposed to stimulate the sale of lots in
the capital by establishing sale-agencies in the principal States
and cities of the Union. The plan was finally abandoned with
reluctance ; another, and at that time a favorite scheme for
raising money, viz., by lottery, was subsequently adopted by
the commissioners. The failure to dispose of the government
lots on advantageous terms was the more serious, as the plan
had been to pay for the first public buildings by the sale of these
lots.
This statement illustrates thoroughly well the difficulties of
establishing the city. To be sure Virginia voted ^120,000 and
Maryland $72,000 for the purpose of beginning the government
buildings. These amounts were necessary, because Congress
failed to make the necessary appropriation of $100,000 for this
purpose. But later Congress appropriated $300,000, yet no one
was willing to advance the money. The capitalists of Europe
did not care to invest in Federal lands. So Washington invoked
again the friendly aid of Maryland in behalf of the District,
and that State very generously loaned $100,000, first obtaining
the personal security of the commissioners.
