BY-LAWS
(Including Amendments adopted May 12, 1899.)
Article I. — Members.
Sec. I. The Washington Academy of Sciences shall comprise four
classes of members, as follows: Resident members^ no7i-resident
members^ honorary me?7ibers and patrons.
Sec. 2. Resident and non-resident 7nembers shall be persons who
by reason of original research or scientific attainment are deemed
eligible to these classes ; they only shall be entitled to vote. Resident
members shall be chosen from the Affiliated Scientific Societies of
Washington. The annual dues of resident members shall be ten
dollars ; of non-resident members, five dollars. Members whose dues
are in arrears for more than one year shall be dropped from the roll of
the Academy, unless the Board of Managers shall otherwise determine.
Sec. 3. Nominations for membership shall be endorsed by at least
three Members of the Academy, who shall present in writing a state-
ment of the qualifications of the nominee, with a list of his more im-
portant publications ; and such nominations shall be referred to the
Board of Managers for consideration.
Sec. 4. Honorary Members shall be persons eminent in science,
and may be residents of any country. They shall pay no dues.
Sec. 5. Persons who have given to the Academy not less than
$1,000 or its equivalent in property may be elected Patrons.
Article II. — Officers.
Sec. I. The officers of the Academy shall be chosen from the resi-
dent members, and shall be a President, one Vice-President from each
of the affiliated societies, a Secretary, and a Treasurer, whose terms of
office shall be one year, and nine Managers, grouped in three classes
of three each, whose terms of office shall be three years. Collectively
they shall constitute the Board of Managers.
Sec. 2. The Board of Managers shall transact all business of the
Academy not otherwise provided for, and shall have power to fill
vacancies in its own membership until the next annual election. Va-
cancies in the office of Vice-President shall be filled on nomination by
the appropriate affiliated societies.
Article III. — Meetings.
Sec. I. The Annual Aleeting shall be held on the third Wednesday
of January each year. At this meeting the reports of the Secretary,
Treasurer, and Auditing Committee shall be presented and officers for
the ensuing year shall be elected.
Sec. 2. Other meetings shall be held at such time and place as the
Board of Managers may determine.
