DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 167
With the difficulties of low credit, there was another which
interfered with the immediate development of values in the Dis-
trict. There was no certainty as to what part of the city would
be the choicest section. Robert Morris, who speculated in Dis-
trict lands, bought east of the Capitol. Some bought in what
is now the northwest section, which has become the most fashion-
able residential quarter of the city. Washington paid about
$1,000 for two lots in the vicinit}'- of the Capitol. He was en-
tirely opposed to the sale of large tracts to individuals, as it was
his opinion that this process would retard the real and legitimate
growth of the city.
The commissioners, however, while having his advice at hand
did not follow it in every instance. The government was em-
barrassed by the inability of some of the purchasers of the largest
tracts to pay therefor. Of course, it was very natural that the
lots on Capitol Hill would bring the highest figures ; but the
chief owner of land in that vicinity held his lots at such high
figures that those who desired to purchase in the District were
compelled to seek lots in the opposite direction. An owner of
land along Pennsylvania Avenue, seeing this determination on the
part of the principal owner of Capitol Hill lots, offered his lots
to all who would build on them, and thus it was that the popu-
lation and business were located west instead of east of the Cap-
itol. These experiences have been repeated over and over again
in the District of Columbia.
The chief cause of the variation in values at that time, and for
three-quarters of a century afterwards was the uncertain attitude
of Congress itself or the uncertainty or variableness of its action.
It could not be expected, however, that there would be much
economic growth until the term of the residence at Philadelphia
should terminate. This was the year 1800, although the cor-
nerstone of the capital was laid with Masonic honors by Wash-
ington himself, September 18, 1793, and in June of the last
year of the i8th century the government moved its entire equip-
ment to the District. The Capitol, White House, Treasury, and
War Department buildings were either in process of construc-
tion or just completed, but there were no other buildings of
any size or importance, not even public houses. The dis-
