l6S WRIGHT
gust of Members at the uncomfortable conditions they found
here, the disappointment of visitors when they found that the
city of Washington was a paper city, that there were no streets,
sidewalks, nor conveyances, did much to retard the growth
of the town.
In the last decade of the eighteenth century a French writer,
M. De Maistre, in an essay on ' The Generative Principle of
Modern Constitutions,' remarked that all great institutions are
the result of development, and, speaking of Washington, said
" that the Americans propose to build a town and call it Wash-
ington, where Congress is to sit " ; and he then made the follow-
ing challenge: " There is too much of the human element in
this affair. You may wager a thousand to one that the town
will not be built, or will not be called Washington, or that Con-
gress will not sit there." This statement represents fairly well
the general feeling in Europe, which feeling, coupled with the
facts already stated, accounts for the discouragement in the
building of the city of Washington ; but there were other and
more important reasons for the slow development of the District.
There was no local government on which responsibility could
be fixed, and there was great dissension as to the form of gov-
ernment which should be provided for the city, but Congress
decided by act of March 3, 1802, to delegate the active admin-
istration of local affairs to a city government, not abandoning
of course its own supreme authority over the city and the Dis-
trict. It granted reasonable scope and freedom to residents in
managing their own immediate affairs, but of course, and
properly, reserved the right to modify, change, or repeal the
provisions of the city government. The first municipal election
was held June 17, 1802, the Mayor being appointed by the
President, and he in turn named his subordinates.
In examining the more immediate facts and conditions bear-
ing upon the economic development of the District of Columbia,
one turns naturally to the status of the population as the funda-
mental element of any economic development. As stated, in
1800, when the government removed its buildings to the District
the population was 14,093. In 1810 it had very nearly doubled,
being 24,023, an increase of more than 70 percent. The in-
