1 74 WRIGHT
are very near the truth. The per capita wealth of the District
of Columbia is greater than that of any of the States in the
Union, except the mining States, where the presence of rich
mining districts in relation to a sparse population makes the per
capita much larger than in other parts of the country.
These conventional facts that have been recited are those
which would be used in considering, as I have already indicated,
the economic development of any locality, and on the whole
they are fairly satisfactory when it is considered that the District
of Columbia is not a great commercial emporium nor a great
manufacturing center. The economic development of the Dis-
trict has been due largely to causes other than the presence of
business interests, the business interests being those identified
almost entirely with the population of the District itself, the
District having but little relation to the outside world so far as
production is concerned, but bringing here, through its peculiar
industry, that of law-making and governmental business, the
products and wealth from the outside. It is this consideration
which is the most interesting and in which the sociological aspect
of economic conditions, unique in themselves, is to be found.
In this consideration we must take cognizance of the different
forms of government under which the affairs of the District
have been conducted, for in this lies one of the most emphatic
exemplifications of the influence of law or the action of govern
ment upon values. The District of Columbia now consists of
69^ square miles of territory instead of 100, when it was estab-
lished. The municipal government of Alexandria was organ-
ized under charter in July, 1749. ^^ became a part of the
District when it was established, but was receded to Virginia
July 9, 1846, and need not be considered as an integral part of
the District. To be sure, it has in a sense furnished some
facilities in the way of transportation and residence which have
had their influence upon the development of the District itself,
but these influences are not of sufficient magnitude to delay the
consideration of the development of Washington.
Georgetown, always a part of the District of Columbia, was
founded in 1751, and incorporated by the legislature of Mary-
land in 1789. Its citizens then were actively engaged in do-
