DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 1 75
mestic trade and foreign commerce. It was a port of entry to
which large consignments of British goods were made, consist-
ing mainly of hardware, drygoods, and wines, in exchange
for tobacco, furs, and Indian goods. Its exports in 1794 amounted
to nearly $129,000. Large quantities of sugar, molasses, and
rum were also imported from the West Indies. These im-
ports were exchanged in trade with the farmers of Maryland,
Virginia, and Pennsylvania, carried on by means of the river
craft and wagon transports, which came heavily laden with the
farm products and returned along their routes to the near and
distant country freighted with dry goods, groceries and farm
products, salt and fresh shad and herring during their sea-
son, for barter with the farming people. It is but natural
that a population numbering between 4000 and 5000, actively
engaged in trade and commerce by land and water, with one
or more good hotels, should have supplied accommodations for
statesmen and officials who could find no suitable residence in
the new territory designated as the Federal capital.^
Georgetown remained under its own form of city government
until the establishment of the territory of the District of Colum-
bia by the act approved February 21, 187 1. Washington itself
remained under the local jurisdiction of the commissioners
created by Congress for the proper planning and laying out of
the new city, till the first city charter was granted in 1802, 'and
from that time until the territorial government established in
187 1 the local government was under the city form, although
there were various modifications and changes in the charters.
There was a mayor, sometimes elected by the people and some-
times appointed by the President, with a board of aldermen and
a council.
During all this period, that prior to 187 1, there had been no
very extensive improvements in the city. Georgetown, as indi-
cated, offered the opportunity for residence for persons con-
nected with the government and for others in the beginning, but
gradually, of course, the streets and squares of Washington
were developed and residences were erected. The population
had grown, as already stated, to 131,700 in 1870. The spas-
1 Cf. ' Pictures of the City of Washington in the Past,' S. C. Busey, M.D.
