176 WRIGHT
modic efforts of the city government at various times to develop
and beautify the city met with little encouragement from the in-
habitants through investment or otherwise, although many efforts
were made to secure proper administration of local law. Con-
gress gave but little attention to the affairs of the District. So
when the war came, in 1861, Washington was a shabby town,
with little or no architecture to attract attention, other than that
displayed in the public buildings, its dwellings and business
blocks being built along the lines of what was popularly known
in those days as " carpenters' architecture." There is much of
this style of building still remaining, the plain front, fiat roof,
and unornamental coping sufficiently characterizing the style
prevailing in the olden days. Values had not appreciated in
any degree at all commensurate with the importance of the
place.
With the notoriety gained by the presence of many strangers
during the Civil War the country itself began to feel somewhat
ashamed of its capital city. My own personal recollections
date from 1862. The sights familiar in Washington then, com-
mon as they were, would be considered absolutely disgraceful
at the present time. There was but one street car line, poorly
equipped and badly managed. There were very few paved streets
and avenues, and although the city possessed all the elements
out of which a beautiful town could be created, they had not
been utilized. Cattle and swine roamed the streets, and con-
tinued to until 187 1. Citizens and strangers familiar with Wash-
ington at that time will remember well the presence of swine,
even in places near this hall — no farther away, in fact, than
New York avenue — and a heavy army wagon would often sink
to the hubs in the mud of the same avenue. All these things
brought numerous petitions for improved local government and
the inauguration of general improvements. The Board of
Health had but little power under the old charters and possessed
but little activity. Prior to the act of February 21, 187 1, estab-
lishing the territorial government, under which was created the
Board of Public Works and the Board of Health given fairly
increased powers, patriotic and public-spirited citizens had done
all they could to secure from the city government an ordinance
