DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 1 77
to empower the Board of Health to clear the streets of animals.
Those citizens who had fenced in their parkings and the citizens
generally were constantly annoyed and their property subjected
to damage, but the city government either had no wish or no
power to carry out the suggestions made to it. The tradition is
that the cackle of a goose set Rome free. This tradition finds
its parallel in an actual fact, under which it might be stated that
the rooting of a pig did much to bring Washington out of the
chaos of the past. The Board of Health, as 'stated, did not or
could not act with any force. One of the prominent citizens of
Washington, who came here in 1847, has related to me an inci-
dent showing how little things sometimes result in bringing
about great improvements. A distinguished Senator, according
to my informant, who had the courage to erect a residence, was
very much annoyed one morning after completing his terrace to
find that the pigs had rooted it up, and although he promptly
shot one of two of them, he was nevertheless very much exer-
cised ; and in going to the Capitol that morning he met my
friend, who had endeavored to secure through the city govern-
ment the removal of the nuisances of which the Senator com-
plained, and stated to him that he proposed to introduce a bill
that morning for the removal of the capital. He said that the
capital of the United States ought to be located in a city where
the municipal government had some public spirit and force
enough to make it a place suitable for a residence for the Presi-
dent and Congress. My friend begged him to do nothing of
the kind, but suggested that instead he secure the passage of a
bill which would give the Board of Health proper power. The
Senator agreed to introduce the bill if the gentleman referred to
would draw the same, and this was done. So there is found
in the act providing a government for the District of Colum-
bia a provision for a Board of Health, whose duty it was to de-
clare what shall be deemed nuisances injurious to health and
provide for the removal thereof; to make and enforce regula-
tions to prevent domestic animals from running at large in the
cities of Washington and Georgetown, etc., etc. This became a
part of the organic law of the new government, and the action of
the Senator referred to had much influence in securing that act.
Pioc. Wash. Acad. Sci., December, 1S99.
