178 WRIGHT
The new government established in 1871 was a territorial one
in form. There was a legislature elected by the people and a
governor appointed by the President, but the chief feature of
the new government was the Board of Public Works, consist-
ing of the governor and four other persons, to be appointed by
the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
This board was invested with great powers, and it at once began
the improvement of the city of Washington. This government
existed until June 20, 1874, ^^^ month less than three years,
but into this time it injected the delayed activity of three-quarters
of a century. It constructed sewers, extended the water works
of the city, laid out streets and parks and circles and carried its
enthusiastic endeavors to such extent that the general govern-
ment was petitioned to investigate it, to restrict it in its powers,
or to do away with it entirely. The men composing it were
subjected to all sorts of abuse and villification ; but they made
Washington, and the citizens of to-day give the board, and
especially Governor Shepherd, the credit of having honestly and
patriotically performed their duties. There was no corruption
in the board by which the members profited, although there
may have been injudicious contracts made by it. The taxes
were enormous, and special assessments frightened the people.
Outside capital, of course, would have nothing to do with the
city. The vast increase of the negro population after the eman-
cipation, and to which reference has been made, now had its
economic effect. The immense work performed by the board
gave employment to many thousands of the colored citizens.
The territorial government went out by the act of June 20,
1874, when a temporary commission was established on a ten-
tative plan. This form of government became permanent by
the act of June 11, 1878, and still exists. Prior to the terri-
torial government and all through the city administrations there
had been a constantly increasing debt, although not very large;
nevertheless, since the beginning of the city it had not been
out of debt. Under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public
Works this debt was increased to a vast amount, something like
$24,000,000, and at the time of the assumption of the govern-
ment by the board of commissioners in 1878, it was about $21,-
