Sec. 3. Twenty resident members of the Academy shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of business.
Article IV. — Co7ntnlttees.
Sec. I. The Board of Managers may appoint such standing and
special committees as it deems necessary.
Sec. 2. The President shall appoint in advance of the annual meet-
ing an Auditing Committee consisting of three persons, none of whom
are officers, to audit the accounts of the Treasurer.
Article V. — Elections.
Sec. I. At each annual meeting there shall be elected by ballot a
President, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and three Managers, who shall
serve vintil the close of the tneeting at which their successors are
chosen. A majority of the votes cast shall be necessary to elect.
Members whose dues are in arrears for one year shall not be entitled
to vote or be eligible for any office in the Academy.
Sec. 2. Resident members shall be elected by the members of the
Academy, and three-fourths of the votes cast shall be necessary to
elect. An election shall be void if the person elected does not within
three months thei'eafter pay his annual dues or satisfactorily explain to
the Board of Managers his failure to do so.
Sec. 3. Non-resident members, honorary members, and patrons
shall be elected by the Board of Managers, and three-fourths of the
votes cast shall be necessary to elect. The Board shall have power
to determine and change the status of resident members to non-resident.
Article VI. — Codperatio?t.
Sec. i . The Academy may act as a federal head of the Affiliated
Scientific Societies of Washington, with power to conduct joint meet-
ings, publish a joint directory and joint notices of meetings, and take
action in any matter of common interest to the affiliated societies :
Provided It shall not have power to incur for or in the name of one
or more of these societies any expense or liability not previously
authorized by said society or societies.
Sec. 2. The term 'affiliated societies' shall be held to cover the
Anthropological, Biological, Chemical, Entomological, National
Geographic, Geological, Medical, and Philosophical Societies and
such others as may be hereafter added by a majority vote of the mem-
bers of the Academy, the vote being taken by correspondence.
Sec. 3. One Vice-President may be nominated by each affiliated
society from the members of the Academy, subject to election by a
majority vote at a meeting of the Academy.
Sec. 4. Any affiliated society may nominate candidates for mem-
bership in the Academy.
