l8o WRIGHT
Up to 1876 the Federal Government had expended in the
District of Columbia for public and private purposes, exclusive
of salaries, a little over $92,000,000; since the creation of the
new government it has expended about $110,000,000 — that is,
in about 22 years it expended more than in the 76 years prior
thereto. People found here a pleasant residence for the winter
months. They erected handsome buildings — palaces, in fact,
— and helped to beautify the city. Values appreciated rapidly.
As an instance, the land in the vicinity of the British Embassy
was sold in 1870 or 1871 for from 70 to 90 cents a square foot;
it rapidly appreciated after 1878 to $4 and $5 per foot. Land
on G street, in the vicinity of business enterprises, which sold
for $1.50 in 1873 was sold in 1889 at $15 a foot. This was due
to some extent to the removal of many of the business houses
from Pennsylvania Avenue to F and G streets, and along F
street property which prior to the stable conditions fixed by Con-
gress was worth $2 or $3 a foot, and maybe more at times, has
been sold for as high as $40 per foot. Extension of streets under
the present liberal policy of Congress and the able administra-
tion of the District government have caused values in the sub-
urban districts to appreciate rapidly. Of course, the reverse has
taken place in the central portions of the city, where values are
more stationary, and will be until some reaction takes place.
These movements for the improvement of the city have given
some wag the opportunity to say that the population of Wash-
ington is divided into two classes — real estate agents and those
who are not — but the usual facetious remark about real estate
agents is offset, and more than offset, by the fact that they have
been instrumental in a very large degree in carrying on the im-
provements that make the present city of Washington. They
formed the Board of Trade, and the Board of Trade has exerted
its influence always in the interest of the prosperity of Washing-
ton. They have been courageous in taking great risks and in
demonstrating that Washington as a place of residence cannot
be excelled. Some of them have profited by their courage and
their risks ; others, too conservative, have lost. On the whole,
however, it is not too much to say that Washington owes a
debt to what it likes to call sometimes the " speculators in real
estate."
