DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 1 83
percent is church and school property, also exempt from taxa-
tion. So without the fair and just assumption of a share of
expenses by Congress, all the expenses of the District would
fall upon 47^ percent of the property, the remainder being
held for the benefit of the United States. Property holders soon
saw the justice and the fairness of the United States paying its
share of the expenses. In the light of this state of affairs there
were the great forces at work to secure justice — the old property
owners and real estate men who were projecting improvements,
the great body of employees in the city, in so far as they were
taxpayers, and those citizens from abroad who came here to
spend their winters and who paid taxes on their property.
With stable economic conditions, the cessation of retarding
influences through the agitation of the removal of the capital,
with a well-employed constituency, with the best street-car ser-
vice in the United States, with excellent markets and sources of
supply, with ample banking facilities, with strong local insurance
companies and opportunities for savings through savings banks
and building and loan associations, with the general cost of
living as favorable as in other localities, with the attractive
suburban developments that are going on, with the extension of
streets and the beautification of squares and circles, the District
of Columbia, it may be said, now has few, if any, economic
problems demanding solution.
The District is one of the most industrious places in the coun-
try. In the United States at large nearly 48 percent of the
population over 10 years of age are engaged in some remuner-
ative occupation. In the District of Columbia over 53 percent
of its population over 10 years of age are so engaged. This is
the more remarkable, because the great body of colored people
residing here constitute one-third of the total population. They
have a few representatives in the clerkships of the Government;
they have their professional men, and old families of means and
standing — in fact, an aristocracy, which is commendable for its
intelligence and progressive ways — but the great body of col-
ored people is excluded in a large degree from the higher lines
of service. They must earn their living in a hand-to-mouth
manner, and in the ordinary occupations connected with com-
