i84 WRIGHT
mon labor. This state of affairs constitutes an economic prob-
lem. Probably any forced attempt to solve it will not succeed.
The schools are doing much in teaching the young how to earn
a living. This is well, and in this probably lies the chief means
the public can take to solve this particular question. The ordi-
nary business of the town, its local manufactures, etc., offer
employment, but the industrial development of Washington does
not offer, for the future, sufficient opportunity for the absorption
of this great body of our citizens to an extent which will relieve
the congestion of common labor. So far there have been no
especially unhappy results, but as time goes on the District will
have to meet the problem of a constantly increasing body of
laborers not met by a constantly increasing industrial develop-
ment ; for the development of the District of Columbia will be
as peculiar and as unique in the future as it has been in the past.
This economic position is approached more fairly from the
sociological side than from the purely industrial point of view.
Wages are higher here, on the whole, than in any other part of
the country, so far as skilled labor is concerned, and so far as the
clerical work of the Departments is taken into consideration, com-
pensation is much greater than in private business. These two
elements offset the element of common labor, and brings an equal-
ization which may prevent any general economic disturbance.
The dream at the beginning of the history of the District of
Columbia, that the capital city of the nation would become a
great commercial emporium, has not been realized — it probably
never will be — and it is well, it seems to me, that it has not been,
not that trade and commerce are not right and grand in them-
selves, nor that mechanical industry has not a civilizing influ-
ence, but in the case of Washington, except, perhaps, the sub-
urbs, it is well that the city should develop as the capital of the
nation. It is the only instance of any importance where the
capital city grew from the rough. I know of no instance of
such an experience in foreign lands. As it has grown without
industry, without commerce, is it not well to preserve Washing-
ton as the center of legislative action, of scientific development,
of art, and of education? It can prosper on these lines, and
the country at large, I believe, will gladly support and encour-
age it in its future grand development.
