DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 1 93
the State of Maryland. In accordance with the provisions of
the act of Congress of April 24, 1800, which authorized the
President to direct the removal of the offices of the government
to the District at any time that he might judge proper after the
adjournment of the then present session of Congress, those offices
were so removed, and the government of the people of the United
States made its permanent home on the banks of the Potomac.
I might, doubtless, in this presence have avoided going thus
into detail, but I have had an object in so doing ; for in order to
indicate fully the matters entering into the political development
of the District it is necessary for us to know at how many points
the principles of political science have touched us in our birth
and growth ; for, odd as it may seem, the situation demands
treatment from the top, instead of from the bottom, which latter
is the natural and proper order. For as between local and inter-
local law the former is naturally the first to be considered ; and
that form of inter-local law which we call international is the
latest of all. Yet, as I am to deal with the political devel-
opment of the District of Columbia as it now is, I must first
get rid of so much of the District as formerly was, but now is
not. This demands a word as to the political make-up of the
original District, and leads to a consideration first of inter-ldcal
or international law as bearing upon our subject.
It is a cardinal rule of international law that whenever there
is a change of sovereignty only, the laws of the territory sub-
jected to the new sovereignty continue until duly changed by
that sovereignty. It is no exception to this rule to say that such
laws may be changed by the treaty or other act occasioning the
change of sovereignty, for this is the same as to say that the
former laws are duly changed. In the original act of Maryland
relating to the. cession of its portion of the District of Columbia
(the act of 1788), that State provided only that its representa-
tives in Congress should cede " to the Congress of the United
States " any district in the State not exceeding ten miles square
which Congress might fix upon and accept for the Seat of Gov-
ernment of the United States. But after the territory of Colum-
bia had been definitely located, the General Assembly of Mary-
land by act of December 19, 1791, in addition to making sundry
