DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 1 95
That the laws of the State of Virginia, as they now exist,
shall be and continue in force in that part of the District of Co-
lumbia, which was ceded by the said State to the United States,
and by them accepted for the permanent seat of government ;
and that the laws of the State of Maryland, as they now exist,
shall be and continue in force in that part of the said District,
which was ceded by that State to the United States, and by them
accepted as aforesaid.
This enactment of Congress left the two portions of the orig-
inal District where they were at the time of its creation, and but
for the act of retrocession of the Virginia portion my task would
be much enlarged. As it is, however, we have now to do with
only the Maryland portion, and to that I ask your attention.
As you look at the map, you observe that where it washes the
District of Columbia the Potomac river runs almost due south,
though with some bearing towards the east, and that the upper-
most and lowermost points of the original square of the District
are due north and south from one another ; and that the present
territory of the District is bounded on its eastern sides by the
Maryland county of Prince George and on its northern and
western sides by the county of Montgomery. So also you will
observe that below the county of Prince George in Maryland
lie the counties of Charles and St. Mary, and that all three of
these counties. Prince George, Charles and St. Mary are situated
between the Potomac river on the west and the Patuxent river on
the east. Originally the county of St. Mary was the only county
of Maryland west of the Patuxent river, and in contemplation of
law it comprised the whole of the State west of that stream.
From April 23, 1696 (Act of 1695, ch. 13), however, the north-
ern boundary of the county was fixed by a line drawn from
Bud's Creek on the Potomac to Indian Creek on the Patuxent,
and the land above this line and as far up as Mattawoman and
Swanson creeks and branches constituted the county of Charles,
and all the land above Charles constituted the county of Prince
George, so named because the 23d day of April is St. George's
day. The present District of Columbia, was, accordingly, at
first wholly within this county.
In 1748 (Act of 1748, ch. 14), it was provided that as of the
