200 DAVIS
same powers, and receive the same fees and emoluments as the
clerks and collectors of the county tax of the state of Maryland
are entitled to receive.
In accordance with this enactment the Levy Court of the
County of Washington was organized and carried on its opera-
tions in accordance with the Maryland system. On July i,
1812 (2 Stats. 771), Congress conferred certain specific pow-
ers upon the body, or " the board of commissioners or levy
court for the county of Washington," as the language of the act
is, and provided that thereafter the board of court should be
composed of seven members to be designated annually by the
President from among the existing magistrates of the county,
two to be from the county east of Rock creek and outside of
the city of Washington, two from the county west of Rock
creek and outside of the city of Georgetown, and three from
the city of Georgetown. "Taxation without representation"
still pursued the city of Washington ; for while it had no repre-
sentative in the Levy Court, it was required by the same act to
bear one-half of all the general county expenses and charges
other than those for roads and bridges. But in 1848 (9 Stats.
223, 230), this was righted by the provision by Congress for
the appointment annually of four additional members of the
court from the city of Washington, so that thereafter the court
should consist of eleven members.
The Act of August 11, 1856(11 Stats. 33), authorized the
Court to appoint School Commissioners, and provided fully for
a system of schools in the county, prescribing the powers and
duties of the Levy Court in relation thereto. By Act of May 3,
1862 (12 Stats. 383), the Court was given further specific
powers, and the requirement that its members should be ap-
pointed from among the justices of the peace was repealed.
And by Act of May 3, 1863 (12 Stats. 799), entided " An Act
to define the Powers and Duties of the Levy Court of the
County of Washington, District of Columbia, m regard to
Roads, and for other Purposes," which was in effect a code in
relation to the county. Congress made full provision for the
Court, defining accurately its jurisdiction and duties and reduc-
ing the number of its members to nine, who were provided to be
