DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 2O3
By Act of December 26, 1783 (Chap. 27), provision was made
for Beall's Addition to the town of sixty-one acres of the tract
known as the Rock of Dumbarton, and by Act of January 22,
1785 (Acts of 1784, Ch. 45), similar provision was made for
Peter, Deakins, Beatty and Threlkeld's Addition of about
twenty and one-half acres of the several tracts bearing the
attractive names of Frogland, Discovery, Conjuror's Disap-
pointment and Resurvey on Salop.
At last, on Christmas Day 1789 (ch. 23), the Assembly incor-
porated the town, which by this time had fallen within Mont-
gomery County. The act of incorporation is interesting in many
particulars. Thus, in part imitation of the Charter of London,
the town as a body corporate was made to consist of a mayor,
recorder, six aldermen and ten common council-men, and was
given the corporate name of "The Mayor, Recorder, Alder-
men and Common Council ;" and the act appointed by name the
first Mayor, Recorder and Aldermen, leaving the common
council-men to be elected by a viva voce vote of the qualifie4
freemen, and providing for the annual election of a mayor
from among the aldermen and for filling vacancies in the sev-
eral offices. The Recorder and all the aldermen and common
council-men were to hold office during good behavior ; the Re-
corder was always to be " a person learned in the law," and
vacancies in the board of aldermen were to be filled by election
from among the common council-men. The Mayor, Recorder,
and Aldermen were constituted justices of the peace and given
power to elect a sheriff and appoint constables and other neces-
sary officers for the town, and were also required to hold a
court to be called the Mayor's Court, the jurisdiction of which
was specifically defined ; and other municipal powers were
granted to the corporation. By subsequent legislation {e. g.
1797, ch. 56, 1799, ch. 85), the tenure of the officers was
limited in time, the limitation of the choice of Mayor to be from
among the Aldermen was removed, additional powers were
given the corporation, and the limits of the town were variously
enlarged, altered and more clearly defined.
By its first act on the subject, that of March 3, 1805 (2 Stats.
332), Congress amended the charter of Georgetown by provid-
