204 DAVIS
ing that after the second Monday in March of that year the
corporation of the town should be divided into two branches, the
first to be composed of five members and a recorder, and called
* The Board of Aldermen,' and the second to be composed
of eleven members and called • The Board of Common Coun-
cilmen,' all to be elected. The first election was provided to be
by the then existing members of the corporation, who should
choose five of their number to compose the Board of Aldermen,
the remainder to be the Board of Common Councilmen and all
to remain in office until the fourth Monday of February follow-
ing. The then Recorder was to be president of the Board of
Aldermen until the same day, and the then Mayor to remain in
office until the first Monday of January following. For the
future, Aldermen and Common Councilmen were to be elected
by the people, the former for two years and the latter for one
year ; while the two branches by joint ballot were annually to
elect a Mayor and Recorder, the latter still to be a "person
learned in the law." The act defined the powers and territorial
jurisdiction of the corporation, provided for the filling of va-
cancies in the several offices, and contained other useful provis-
ions. Finally, by Act of May 31, 1830 (4 Stats. 426), Con-
gress provided for the election of the Mayor by the people on
the same day as the councilmen w^ere chosen, and fixed the ten-
ure of his office at two years ; and provided for filling a vacancy
in the oflfice b}'' the two branches until the next regular election.
And, in the meanwhile, by the Act of May 20, 1826 (4 Stats.
183), Congress had deprived the Levy Court of the County of
Washington of the power to assess any tax in Georgetown, so
that the latter city from this time on stood as a quite fully
equipped and independent Municipal Corporation, retaining its
powers until 187 1, and its separate name until the passage of
the Act of 1895, hereafter to be noticed.
Turning now to the City of Washington, it has already been
pointed out that Congress effectively assumed jurisdiction over
the District of Columbia by the Act of February 27, 1801
(2 Stats. 103). At that time there was, of course, no such thing
as a corporation of the Cit}^ of Washington ; nor was there un-
