DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20^5
til after the passage of the Act of Congress of May 3, 1802
(2 Stats, 195). By the Act for estabhshing the temporary and
permanent seat of government of the United States, approved
July 16, 1790 (i Stats. 130), a board of three Commissioners
was provided for, which board was charged with the duty of
surveying, defining and limiting the district to be accepted for
the permanent seat of government, and providing suitable gov-
ernment buildings. These officials were called in the later Act
of April 24, 1800 (2 Stats. 55), "the Commissioners of the
City," and were recognized as being in effect entrusted with the
affairs of the city in general. By Act of Congress of May i,
1802 (2 Stats. 175), this board of commissioners was abolished
and the affairs of the City of Washington, which had heretofore
been under the care and superintendence of the said commis-
sioners, were put under the direction of a superintendent, to be ap-
pointed by and to be under the control of the President of the
United States ; which superintendent was vested with the powers
and charged with the duties formerly vested with or required to
be performed by the said commissioners by virtue of any Act of
Maryland or of Congress, or the deeds of trust from the original
proprietors of the lots in the City, or in any other manner
whatsoever.
By act of April 29, 1806 (3 Stats. 324), the office of this Super-
intendent was abolished and its powers and duties, as also the
duties of the earlier board of three commissioners, were devolved
upon one commissioner, thereafter known as the commissioner
of public buildings; and by act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stats.
466), the office of this commissioner was in turn abolished and
those powers and duties devolved upon the Chief of Engineers
of the Army.'
By the Act of May 3, 1802 (2 Stats. 195), Congress provided
that the inhabitants of the City of Washington should be a cor-
poration "by the name of a Mayor and Council of the City of
'A complete and accurate account of the creation of the City of Washington
as the Federal City, including a full exposition of the manner in which and the
terms on which the lands for the purpose were conveyed to the original com-
missioners, may be found in the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United
States in the case of Morris v. United States (commonly called the 'Potomac
Flats Case'), decided May i, 1899. (174 U. S. 196).
Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., Dec-mber, 1899.
