206 DAVIS
Washington," and that the city should be divided into three
divisions or wards, as then divided by the Levy Court, with
power in the council to increase the number of wards in its
wisdom. The council was provided to consist of twelve mem-
bers, elected annually by the qualified voters, and when elected
the twelve were to choose from their number by joint ballot five
to constitute the second chamber, the remaining seven to con-
stitute the first. The Mayor was provided to be appointed
annually by the President of the United States, and the cor-
poration was given usual municipal powers. A somewhat
unique provision was " that the by-laws or ordinances of the
said corporation shall be in no wise obligatory upon the persons
of non-residents of the said city, unless in cases of intentional
violations of bye-laws or ordinances previously promulgated."
By its terms, and in imitation of the very wise practice of the
State of Maryland at the time, the act was limited in force to
two years and to the end of the next session of Congress there-
after. By the supplementary act of February 24, 1804 (2 Stats.
254), the original act was continued in force for fifteen years
from the end of the next session of Congress ; certain additional
powers were given the corporation ; the Levy Court was de-
prived of the power to impose any tax upon the inhabitants of
the city, and the constitution of the Councils was changed by
provision that future councils should consist of two chambers of
nine members each, to be chosen by distinct ballots, and that any
vacancy should be filled by the chamber in which it should
happen by an election by ballot from the three persons next
highest on the list to those elected at the preceding election.
The Charter of the City was radically changed by the Act of
May 4, 181 2 (2 Stats. 721). By the terms of this act, after the
first Monday of June of that year the corporation was composed
of a Mayor, a board of aldermen and a board of common coun-
cil, and its corporate name was "The Mayor, Aldermen and
Common Council of the City of Washmgton." There were
eight aldermen, two from each ward, and twelve common coun-
cilmen, three from each ward, and all were elected by ballot by
the qualified voters, the former for two years and the latter for
one year. The Mayor was elected annually by ballot by the
