DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20^
two chambers in joint meeting, and in case of three ballots with-
out an election he was to be chosen by lot. Quite full munici-
pal powers were given the corporation, including the power to
pass all laws necessary for carrying into execution the powers
specifically conferred upon and vested in the corporation,
whether by the act itself or any former one. Among the pow-
ers specifically conferred by the act was that "to authorize the
drawing of lotteries for effecting any important improvement in
the city, which the ordinary funds or revenues thereof will not
accomplish : Provided^ that the amount to be raised in each
year shall not exceed the sum of ten thousand dollars : and pro-
vided also, that the object for which the money is intended to be
raised shall be first submitted to the President of the United
States and shall be approved by him." This act was amended
February 20, 1819 (3 Stats. 485), providing for tax-sales, and
by act of February 28, 1820 (3 Stats. 543), it was extended to
March 3, 1821, unless sooner repealed.
The act of May 15, 1820 (3 Stats. 583), was still more thor-
ough. It repealed all former enactments so far as inconsistent
with its provisions ; continued the corporation under its later
name ; granted many new powers ; made elaborate provisions
respecting tax-sales ; prohibited any tax upon property in the
city by the Levy Court, and limited the contributions by the
corporation to the expenditures of that court ; and made specific
provision for the division of the city into wards. For the first
time the Mayor was to be elected by the people, and he was to
be chosen every second year ; and, as before, there were to be
two aldermen chosen from each ward for two years, and three
common council-men from each ward for one year. The act
was limited in duration to twenty years or until Congress should
by law determine otherwise.
An interesting and important provision of this act, foreshad-
owing the existing division of expenditures between the United
States and the District, is section 15, as follows :
That the commissioner of the public buildings, or other per-
son appointed to superintend the United States disbursements
in the city of Washington, shall reimburse to the said corpora-
tion a just proportion of any expense which may hereafter be
incurred, in laying open, paving or otherwise improving, any
