DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 2X^
What I wish especially to be noticed in this connection is the
oft-mentioned division of expense between the United States and
the District. As we have seen, Congress took notice of this
principle in the act of 1820 relating to the Corporation of Wash-
ington, and in its act of 1848 on the same subject gave the prin-
ciple more specific and extended application. In short, the
principle may be said to have existed from the first : and with
good reason, seeing that the District was esrablished primarily
for the purposes of the National government and that that gov-
ernment is the owner of quite half of all the property here with
which governmental agencies as the fruit of taxation are con-
cerned, as in protection against fire and theft, water supply,
&c. Moreover, the National government always bore its due
share of the cost of street improvements, &c., adjoining its
properties and for long bore exclusively the cost of the fire ser-
vice and almost exclusively the cost of the water service in the
District. All in all, if either party to the double government of
the District ought to be favored in the matter of expense it is
the local and not the National government.
I have expressed the hope that this latest phase of our polit-
ical development will be its last. If not this, it seems destined
to be the last for some time to come, in view of the light in
which it is regarded by the Supreme Court of the United States.
In Eckloff v. District of Columbia (135 U. S. 240, 243-4), that
Court, speaking of the act of 1878 says :
The court below placed its decision on what we conceive to
be the true significance of the act of 1878. As said by that
court, it is to be regarded as an organic act, intended to dispose
of the whole question of a government for this District. It is,
as it were, a constitution for the District. It is declared by its
title to be an act to provide " a permanent form of government
for the District." The word permanent is suggestive. It im-
plies that prior systems have been temporary and provisional.
As permanent it is complete in itself. It is the system of gov-
ernment. The powers which are conferred are organic powers.
We look to the act itself for their extent and limitations. It is
not one act in a series of legislation, and to be made to fit into
the provisions of the prior legislation, but it is a single complete
act, the outcome of previous experiments, and the final judgment
of Congress as to the system of government which should ob-
