THE FOUNDING OF THE NATIONAL CAPITAL 223
India Company, was a commercial organization. The first
ship-load of emigrants numbered one hundred and five, of
whom forty-eight were classed as ' gentlemen,' while there
were unhappily only twelve laborers, and very few mechanics.
The voyage occupied four months, from January i to April
26, 1607. They sailed up the broad river Powhatan, which
they re-named the James, in honor of the King, and founded
Jamestown, on a low and swampy peninsula, at the mouth of the
Chickahominy. This was in direct violation of their instruc-
tions, "neither must you plant in a low and moist place, be-
cause it will prove unhealthful." The colonists paid dearly for
their rashness ; marsh fevers, with careless regimen, decimated
their ranks ; and in six months fifty men, or one-half the colony,
had died.
The red man, too, was offended by the coming of the white
man. After the first wild surprise, and the terror of fire-arms
were recovered from, the savages began their endeavors to get
rid of the unwelcome guests. Crafty and cunning, blood-
thirsty and cruel, they cut off straggling parties in ambush, and
finally killed three hundred and forty-seven settlers in one day
by a concerted massacre, after the infant colony had grown to
some two thousand souls. Women and children alike were
slaughtered without mercy. Days of sore trial, and nights of
fear and distress succeeded to the brilliant hopes of the early
emigrants. Provisions often failed, what corn they got from
the Indians was quickly consumed, and famine stared them in
the face. Too many of the colony were shiftless adventurers,
unaccustomed and unwilling to work, and the fruitful soil,
ready to yield luxuriant crops, remained largely untilled. The
hardy and resolute Captain John Smith, tired of the idle com-
pany that surrounded him, set out on an expedition of discovery,
and visited Powhatan, the emperor of the Virginia tribes, at
Werowocomoco. Later, he sailed up the Potomac river, and it
is supposed, rather than proven, saw the site of the present
District of Columbia.
So much interest attaches to the long controversy over John
Smith's claims to honor and credence as pioneer and historian,
that I may be pardoned for briefing some of the points involved.
