2 24 SPOFFORD
Until recently, all histories of Virginia have been built upon
Smith's early narratives, the writers simply repeating one an-
other. His romantic history was accepted as unquestioned,
until modern criticism took hold of it, and applied searching
analysis to its many improbabilities. The story of his rescue
from a bloody death by Pocahontas has been printed in hun-
dreds of volumes, and has even been perpetuated in a grotesque
sculpture by Capellano in the rotunda at Washington — a har-
rowing example of the barbaric art that prevails in yonder
Capitol. This story is wholly unsupported by any contempo-
raneous evidence. Not one of the early chroniclers of Vir-
ginia — Wingfield, Spelman, Bullock, Jones, Beverly — alludes
to it. Smith himself published two books on Virginia soon
after the alleged rescue, the ' True Relation ' in 1608, and
the ' Map of Virginia' in 1612, in which he tells of his treat-
ment by Powhatan, but not a word of any contemplated massa-
cre. His first recorded statement of it was in a letter eight
years after to Queen Anne, in 1616, when he briefly said she
had saved his life. This was expanded in his ' Generall
Historic,' 1624, sixteen years after the event, into the detailed
romance of the two great stones with Captain Smith dragged
and laid out upon them, the savages standing ready with clubs
to beat out his brains, and Pocahontas getting his head in her
arms, and laying her own head upon his to save him from death.
Smith's other works, moreover, abound in marvellous tales
of his prowess and escapes in Africa and Asia, where a fair
Turkish princess also saves his life. The least that can be
said in judging of the strange tale is that it is not proven.
Among the historical writers who discredit it are Neill, Deane,
Alexander Brown, Henry Adams, Bancroft, Lodge, Eggleston
Charles Dudley Warner, Gay, Palfrey, and Doyle. On the
other hand, among the modern writers who credit it are W. W.
Henry, Howison, Bruce, Arber, and John Fiske.
It may, indeed, be thought that the discredit of John Smith
has recently been carried too far. The reverse swing of the
pendulum of historic judgment may have done injustice to one
who must ever remain a notable figure in American history.
Captain John Smith was an egotist and a braggart, but he was a.
