THE FOUNDING OF THE NATIONAL CAPITAL 225
great deal more. He was possessed of ardor, courage, penetra-
tion, industry and perseverance. Had he remained longer in the
colony (for his whole service in Virginia covered only two and
a-half years, from tw^enty-eight to thirty years of his age) he
might have made a much greater record. As it was, he did
more for the struggling colony in its first two years than any
other man, and with less means. He explored, with cool daring,
amid tribes of hostile savages, the James river, the Chicka-
hominy, and the Potomac. He made the first map of Virginia
worthy of the name, a map, considering the obstacles in the way,
and the non-existing data, of surprising accuracy. He had the
sense to despise the gold fever, and the abortive aims of his
fellow-adventurers, and to devote himself to practical utilities
with his utmost energy. His sagacity made him deal with the
cunning and treacherous savages with more success than any
others. In his short term of the presidency of the colony, he
built defences, foraged successfully for supplies of corn in the
starving time, and required lazy vagabonds to work. He was
surrounded by dissensions and difficulties of every kind. The
absurd ordinance of the London Virginia Company, that the
colonists should share all in common, ended in the idlers and
the shirks sponging upon the community. Then, as now, com-
munism meant that the industrious and the capable should labor
to support the indolent and the shiftless. If John Smith, in his
many wTitings, sometimes boasted more than other men, he had
also done more. Men are rare who can be trusted to write their
own biography. Let us have charity for poor John Smith, vain
though he may have been, as we behold him vanishing, all
blackened with powder, from the Virginia for which he had
done so much, bearing with stout heart the heavy ' white man's
burden.'
As years rolled on, there came a steady influx of emigrants
to Virginia. Colony after colony crossed the sea, until, about
1620, there were landed some eleven hundred annually. In
Hotten's ' Original Lists of Persons of Quality, Emigrants,'
etc., London, 1874, ^^^^ o^ily extensive published record of early
emigrants to America, are some fifteen thousand names. But
among the multitude of eager searchers who daily haunt our
