226 SPOFFORD
libraries in quest of the missing link that shall connect them
with British ancestors, scarcely one in a hundred ever finds it.
Out of the hundreds of ship loads of early emigrants, many
kept no records, and of manj^ more the records are lost. For
the purposes of the genealogist, in most cases, the coming of
the white man was in vain.
The progress of the colony in the arts of peace was steady
and great. In 1649 there were eleven mills to grind corn and
six public breweries. Iron and bricks were manufactured in
large quantities. The colony was hampered in its foreign com-
merce by the narrow and odious navigation laws of England,
which prohibited her colonies from trading with any other
nation, thus cutting off a lucrative trade which might have
made all countries tributary to Virginia's great staple, tobacco.
In 1670 the peace of the colony was disturbed by the great
number of desperate villains sent over from the prisons of Eng-
land, and the Council of Virginia ordered that no vessel
should be allowed " to bring in any jaile-birds after January
next." Negro slavery was introduced as early as 1619, by im-
portation from Africa, and continued a growing evil, demoral-
izing to a certain degree both races, though the profits of slave
labor insured its perpetuation.
That one may form an intelligent judgment of the country
and period that we contemplate, there should be brought into
view a distinct idea of the natural features of Virginia. The
country was held for hundreds of miles 'by barbarous tribes of
aborigines, forming a loose confederacy, each under its own
Werowance, or chief, but subject to the powerful king, Pow-
hatan. The Virginia Company's grant extended about two
hundred and forty miles north and south, with no defined limit
westward. Its territory was washed by four noble tide-water
rivers, the James, the York, the Rappahannock and the Potomac,
each having many tributaries. The ample Chesapeake Bay,
full of convenient and safe harbors, with good anchorage open
to commerce from one end of the year to the other, supplied a
coast line of a hundred and fifty miles. The magnificent har-
bor of Hampton Roads could float all the navies of the world.
The soil, covered mostly by vast primeval forests, was of such
