228 SPOFFORD
shore on the Chesapeake Bay, says the water- fowl " arrive
in millionous multitudes about the middle of September, and
take their winged farewell about the midst of March." '♦ There
be wild turkeys extream large," wrote Dr. Clayton to the
Royal Society in 1688, and he gives their weight at fifty to sixty
pounds each.
Tobacco, the great indigenous staple of Virginia, grew
luxuriantly in her soil, became to her planters a great source of
wealth, a world-monopoly for more than a century, and sup-
plied a currency and a measure of value.
With their material wants supplied thus bountifully by all the
kingdoms of nature, the Virginia planters of later years formed
a class of men who lived generously and entertained hand-
somely. Says the historian Beverly: " the gentry pretend to
have their victuals drest and served up as nicely as if they were
in London." Indeed, the intercourse between Virginia and the
old country was by no means infrequent. Visits to relatives
abroad, or from those abroad to their friends in America, were
of constant occurrence. The social intercourse at home was
intimate and lively. Daily, almost, the gentlemen and ladies
of the rural gentry would mount their horses (for carriages
were but little used) and ride three, five, ten or more miles to
visit neighbors, dining together and returning in the evening.
Every house was a house of entertainment, for hotels were al-
most unknown. Any decent stranger was sure of welcome.
There were frequent card-parties, horse-races, shooting-matches,
athletic sports (like quoits, wrestling, fencing and running)
river-parties, hunting-meets, and riding-matches. The tables
of well-to-do citizens were always supplied with malt liquors,
wines, brandy or rum. The favorite wine was Madeira, though
claret, port and Sauterne were not uncommon. A generous,
not to say profuse, style of living prevailed, and ' old-fashioned
Virginia hospitality ' was a term daily illustrated in a commu-
nity where George Washington records that his family did not
once sit down to dinner alone for twenty years.
Dress and manners partook largely of the style and habits of
cultivated people in Europe at the period. The Rev. Hugh
Jones records that at Williamsburg, the early capital, " may be
