THE FOUNDING OF THE NATIONAL CAPITAL 229
seen a great number of handsome, well-dressed, compleat gen-
tlemen." Knee-breeches, silken hose, and shoe-buckles of shin-
ing silver were prevalent, and velvet was the favorite wear for
gentlemen's gala dress. Lace ruffles and snow-white cravats set
off a costume, which, if not more sensible than that now in
vogue, was at least more picturesque.
With their large leisure, it maybe thought that Virginia gen-
tlemen of a century ago were prone to idleness. Nothing could
be farther from the truth, as regards the leading men among
them. They were busy with much felling of trees, fencing of
grounds, plantation cares, with land surve3^s and building im-
provements, with law-suits, with roads and bridges, with local
elections and. church business, with school arrangements, with
family provisions, and with correspondence at home and abroad.
The worm-fence, made of rough rails, laid zig-zag fashion, be-
came known the country over as the Virginia fence.
The prevalent idea that intelligence was at a low ebb in early
Virginia must yield to authentic facts. In spite of the oft-quoted
dictum of the narrow-minded Governor Berkeley — " I thank
God there are no free schools nor printing," it is a fact that the
first free school founded in America was in Virginia (1622) ;
in 1693 William and Mary College was established, and ele-
mentary schools were common; in 1736 a newspaper was suc-
cessfully established at Williamsburg; and in 1748 education
was made compulsory by legislative act in case of parental
neglect. Ninety-four percent of the inhabitants in Norfolk
county could write, as shown by the marriage bonds on record.
Private libraries, too, were common in many Virginia homes.
In fact, the progenitors of such men as Washington, Jefferson,
Mason, Madison and others, were far from wanting in intel-
lectual attainments.
The historian Jones records of the Virginia colony in 1724,
that there were very few poor people and no beggars therein.
The planters, and even the negroes, " spoke good English, with-
out idiom or tone." He adds that the citizens generally wore
good clothes, had "comely, handsome persons," and good
manners and address. "The climate," said he, " makes them
bright, and of excellent sense."
