230 SPOFFORD
It is not singular tliat we find, scattered through the literature
of the 17th and i8th centuries, numerous encomiums upon Vir-
ginia. Says the quaint historian Beverly : " Here people enjoy
all the benefits of a warm sun, and by their shady trees are pro-
tected from its inconvenience. Here all their senses are enter-
tained with an endless succession of native pleasures." The
chronicler of Newport's voyage wrote that Virginia might
•' claim the perogative over the most pleasant places in the
world." Edward Williams wrote, in 1650, <' the melancholiest
eye in the world cannot look upon it without contentment, nor
content himself without admiration." Hugh Jones records :
•'Virginia is esteemed one of the most valuable gems in the
crown of Great Britain." In England the newly^found virgin
land excited a wide-spread interest, reflected by numerous allu-
sions in dramatic and poetic literature. Spenser dedicated his
Faerie Queen (1590) to " Elizabeth, Queen of England, Ireland,
France and Virginia.'''' At a later period, Thomas Neals was
made by royal patent ' Postmaster-General of Virginia and
other parts of North America.' Arthur Barlowe wrote : " The
soil is the most plentiful, sweet, fruitful and wholesome of all
the world." Another writer speaks enthusiastically of "the
dear strand of Virginia, earth's only paradise." The early his-
torian Hamor (1615) tells of the " goodlie rivers, no where else
to.be paralleled," and he says, there were " wilde pigeons in
winter beyond number or imagination, so thicke that they have
even shadowed the skie." Another adds " there are infinite
hogges in beards all over the woods." Ralph Lane says : " We
have discovered the main to be the goodliest soil under the cope
of heaven." Captain John Smith wrote: " Heaven and earth
never agreed better to frame a place for man's habitation."
Thomas Harlot's ' Brief and True Report of the New-
Found Land in Virginia,' 1588, was the first published account,
but between this and 1700, more than thirty distinct books and
pamphlets respecting Virginia were published, though a com-
plete Virginia bibliography is still to seek. Beverly's Virginia,
within two years of its appearance in 1705, was translated
into French, and three times reprinted at Paris and Amsterdam.
For more than a century before Washington's time, a constant
