254 WARD
would not have been appropriate to include the Wyoming cycads
in that paper, and I so informed Professor Marsh.
Professor Marsh promptly made public all the information he
had on this subject in the ' Postscript ' to his paper on ' The
Jurassic Formation on the Atlantic Coast — Supplement ' which
he had read before the National Academy of Sciences on Nov-
ember i8, 1897. This 'Supplement' with the 'Postscript'
appeared in the American Journal of Science for August, 1898
(4th Ser., Vol. VI, pp. 105-115), and also in Science of
August 5, 1898 (NS., Vol. VIII, pp. 145-154).
The next reminder I had of the existence of these vegetable
fossils was through Dr. F. H. Knowlton, who had received a
letter from Professor Wilbur C. Knight, State Geologist of
Wyoming, dated September 3, 1898, in which he said : " Re-
cently my assistant made a very rich find of Jurassic cycads.
Would you care to describe the species, or possibly several
species ? I have some fine ones. One on my desk is 8x6X12
inches or larger."
Dr. Knowlton showed me this letter and, knowing that it
referred to the same locality as that from which Professor Marsh
had obtained his specimens, I immediately wrote to Professor
Knight and offered to describe the specimens if he could find
a way of placing them in my hands. As a result a negotiation
was entered into with the authorities of the United States Na-
tional Museum as to conditions on which the material would
be received, but it was not until the i6th of March, 1899, that
the collection finally arrived.
STRATIGRAPHIC POSITION.
In a letter from Professor Knight, dated October 18, 1898,
in answer to questions I had asked him relative to the age of
the beds, he says :
♦• There is no question as to the horizon of the find, it is in the
Jurassic fresh water beds, and near the bottom. In the locality
where this bed has been opened there is a typical Jurassic ex-
posure, and the fresh water and marine beds can be sectioned
to a foot. I have not visited the cycad beds yet but I am well
acquainted with the locality and have made rough sections
many times. In my opinion it is a very excellent find and is
