FOSSIL CYCADEAN TRUNKS FROM WYOMING 255
well worth a careful study. I am at the present time making a
special study of the Jurassic of Wyoming contemplating a
monograph on the subject as soon as it is possible to complete
the work. If you wish I can go to the field and give you an
absolute section of the bed."
In another letter dated November i, 1898, he makes the fol-
lowing more specific statement :
*'A section through the locality will be about as follows :
Triassic red sandstone, 1000 feet.
Lower Jurassic (marine), 200 feet.
Upper Jurassic (fresh water), 225 feet.
Dakota conglomerate, from 50 to 200 feet.
Your Black Hills section reminds me of the Big Horn Basin
country where I found beds that I could not place in the Dakota.
In no instance in the section given have I detected any non-
conformability, although I anticipate that such exists between
the Jurassic and Dakota."
I spent the latter part of November of that year at the Yale
Museum describing the new material that Professor Marsh had
acquired since my visit in June. This included the two speci-
mens received from Mr. W. H. Reed from the Jurassic of Wyo-
ming and I took as full notes on them as possible. It was appar-
ent at a glance that they had nothing to do with the Black Hills
cycads, and that they were very different from anything that I
had seen either in this country or in Europe. In some respects
they resembled the specimens from the Purbeck beds of the Isle
of Portland, especially the small ones that I saw there in 1894,
and of which I obtained 20 specimens for the U. S. National
Museum. This, however, had less to do with their botanical
than with their mineralogical character — their light color, soft
ashy constitution, and especially their obviously partially cal-
careous nature.
PERSONAL FIELD WORK.
I naturally had a great curiosity to visit these beds and study
their geological position, and I was so fortunate as to make an
arrangement with Professor Knight to meet him on September
ist, 1899, at Laramie, Wyoming, and have his company and
guidance to the locality. We proceeded to Medicine Bow,
where he had an outfit in readiness to take us to the Freezeout
