256 WARD
Hills. The University of Wyoming had a cabin erected in the
center of the Dinosaur area and only half a mile from the cycad
bed. Several days were spent there and I devoted most of my
time to a search for cycads and to a thorough investigation of
the geological character and position of the strata holding these
interesting remains.
Professor Knight was entirely correct in the above statement
in his letter to me that the cycad beds are in the Jurassic fresh
water formation. This deposit is nearly 200 feet thick and the
cycad bed lies a little below the middle of it. The cycads occur
on a ridge of disintegrated sandstone rock, having a grayish
color with a reddish-brown tint. It was possible, however, to
follow the bed around the northern slope of the hill to the east,
where it was distinctly exposed as a ledge about ten feet in
thickness of coarse, reddish-brown, crossed-bedded sandstone,
with streaks formed by small white calcareous flecks, interbed-
ded with the sand ; which, however, are sometimes much larger,
giving the rock somewhat the appearance of a conglomerate.
On the hills to the north of the cabin, across the valley, it
crops out in great clearness and is considerably thicker. Every-
where it is full of silicified wood, but cycads were only found
in the one particular locality described, which has an east and
west extension of some 1000 feet and a north and south width
near the top of the northern slope of the ridge of about 150 feet.
A student, Mr. Charles Gilmore, of the University of Wyoming,
who had been for some time at the cabin working out the Dinosaur
bones, and who had rediscovered Mr. Reed's cycad locality,
had obtained several additional trunks and sent them to
Medicine Bow, where, without my knowledge, they were stored
at the time we passed through and which, at the present writing,
I have not yet seen ; but I understand they are soon to be sent
to the National Museum. As soon as we began work in the
locality fragments were found and it was soon apparent that
many other specimens were buried in the ground only a very
short distance from the surface. A careful scanning of the entire
area revealed small projections of such as actually reached the
surface a,nd they were easily dug out, resulting in the discovery
of several good specimens. I spent one forenoon with a mat-
