258 WARD
School of Mines of the University of Wyoming, at Laramie,
Wyoming. They are for the most part fragments, but there
are a few entire trunks. The three largest, Nos. 500.1, 500.2,
and 500.65, though all present, are each broken in two pieces
which fit perfectly together. In a number of cases comple-
mentary parts had been detected and unfortunately for their
convenient study, glued together. In others such complements
had been recognized and given the same number. It was ob-
vious, however, that many fragments that belong together had
not been identified, and much time was spent in finding and
joining these counterparts. This study ultimately resulted in
finding about twenty-five such cases. In addition to these there
are a number which, although they do not actually fit together,
nevertheless evidently belong to the same trunk, the structure
being continuous and explicable on the assumption of the loss
of intermediate portions. Putting these two classes together,
the number of independent trunks and fragments is reduced to
61. In several cases more than two fragments belong together,
for example, in three cases there are three, and in two cases
there are five separately numbered pieces of the same trunk.
A large proportion of the specimens were covered on the side
on which they lay in the field by an incrustation of lime. This
completely obscured the structure and it was necessary to re-
move it. This was the case with many of the Black Hills cy-
cads, but it presented no serious difficulty beyond the labor and
expense of placing the trunks in a vat of hydrochloric acid
and leaving them there until the lime was removed, the pure
silica of those trunks being wholly unaffected by the process.
But, as already remarked, the Jurassic trunks, although mainly
silicified, contain calcareous matter, and the acid unavoidably
etches the surface somewhat. If this had been all it would
have been a comparatively small matter. The worst diffi-
culty arises from the fact that the oxidation of the speci-
mens turns the parts affected by the acid black or dull brown,
and thereby more or less obscures the markings of the surface
on which the different organs normally have a different shade
of color, which brings them out distinctly. After the acid
bath, although the lime is removed and the surface little eaten
