26o WARD
absent, and that its absence is always due to some external in-
fluence acting upon the surface which has removed it. There
is an abundance of proof of this, and most of the specimens
show parts over which the external coating still adheres and
other parts where it is absent. The latter usually reveal the
nature of the agency that has removed the coating, whether a
sudden and violent concussion, a gradual erosion, or a process
of weathering. The contact of the outer layer with the surface
of the armor proper is always marked b}'' a clear plane of sepa-
ration, and usually by an open structure or even a partially void
space. This becomes a natural plane of cleavage, and almost
any influence will cause the outer coating to scale off like the
outer bark of a tree.
In the specimens of the Yale Museum this outer coating had
almost entirely disappeared, though not absolutely, so that the
phenomenon did not specially strike me, and I only noted that
the surfaces were obscure in places. Through the kindness
of Dr. C. E. Beecher, these specimens were sent to me for
further examination and comparison with those of the large
collection from Mr. Knight. Some of the important results
of this comparison M'ill be noted later on, but it is sufficient to
state here that they form no exception or anomaly, but are
simply part and parcel of the general lot.
GENERIC CHARACTERS OF FOSSIL CYCADEAN TRUNKS.
Generic characters, with the exception of Bennettites, which
is identical with Cycadeoidea except in the accident that seeds
have been discovered in the spadices, have generally been based
on the shape of the trunk and on the character of the armor,
/. ^., of the remains of the foliar organs still adhering to the
trunk in the fossil state. The former of these characters have
proved of less constancy, and in cases where the latter class of
characters is distinctive *authors have not hesitated to ignore va-
riations in the former, as, e. g.^ Cycadeoidea gigantea of Sew-
ard, a tall cylindrical trunk wholly different in form from other
species of that genus. I was obliged to do the same with C.
exceha and C. jenneyana.
The second class of characters is relatively constant and diag-
