FOSSIL CYCADEAN TRUNKS FROM WYOMING 263
out beyond the surface and roll over the spaces formerly occu-
pied by the leaves and fruits. It seems necessary to assume that
this occurred long after the fall of the leaves, and, indeed, this
latter doubtless took place much as it does in living cycads, the
leaves always forming a crown to the trunk and falling away
as the trunk elongates, leaving only their persistent bases to
form a false bark. These are not wholly dead, but manifest
vegetative activity and doubtless have some physiological func-
tion. The development of copious ramentaceous hairs would
form a protection to the trunk both from cold and from violence.
Something analogous to this may be seen in living cycads
and in tree-ferns, also in some palms, and a similar function is
sometimes performed in other ways, as by the coat of wax on
the wax palms. At any rate we are confronted with the fact
that Cycadella developed an exuberant growth of fine scales or
hairs from the bases of its old petioles below the apex, which
formed a woolly or mossy covering of considerable thickness,
sufficient when tightly appressed to the trunk and petrified
there to form a layer 5-15 mm thick all over the fossil trunks.
As already remarked, there is usually a clean line of separa-
tion between the armor proper and this outer covering, but if
the latter consists of ramentum there must be points at which it
crossed this boundary and reappeared in the superficial layer.
Such points are not easy to find in the collection, but the frac-
tured surfaces of a few specimens reveal the process of transition
in a more or less imperfect way. Such specimens were carefully
searched out and the most promising cases were sectioned and the
surfaces polished. Slides were also made and the whole process
is as fully illustrated as the nature of the material will permit.
SYSTEMATIC DESCRIPTION OF THE GENUS AND SPECIES.
The following is the description of the new genus Cycadella
and the species distinguished in the collections examined :
Genus CYCADELLA new genus.
PI. XIV.
Trunks relatively small, bulbous, subspheroidal, or subconical,
variously compressed, encased in a layer 5-1 5mm thick of dense lis-
