264 WARD
sue consisting of the chaffy ramentum exuberantly developed from
the leaf bases and extruded from the armor, massed and matted in the
fossil state so as to form a thick outer covering to the trunk ; leaf bases
always filling the scars, occasionally caught in the meshes of the outer
coating, but normally truncated below and constituting with the ra-
mentum walls a dense armor i-5cm thick; otherwise as in Cyca-
deoidea.
PL XIV merely illustrates the nature of the ramentaceous chaff and
the great length that it attains, but it would be obviously impossible to
show the full length with a power of 90 diameters. The manner in
which the chaffy hairs protrude from the armor and pour over the surface
of the trunk upon which they lie in mats of wavy lines is shown on
Pis. XIX and XX, illusti'ating Cycadella knowltoniana. The phe-
nomena will, be more fully described under that species.
I am indebted to Dr. F. H. Knowlton for the drawings of PI. XIV,
made from slides of several species under the compound microscope.
For further details see description of that plate.
CYCADELLA REEDII n. sp.
PI. XV.
Trunks small (8-1 2cm high, 6-1 6cm in diameter), subspheroidal
or subconical, unbranched, usually more or less laterally compressed,
the axis oblique; rock substance rather soft, light colored, of low
specific gravity ; organs of the armor ascending ; leaf scars ar-
ranged in rows around the trunk nearly at right angles to the axis,
subrhombic, i5-2omm wide, 6-iomm high; leaf bases porous; walls
i-3mm thick, hard and fine-grained, often flinty, usually white and
somewhat striate; reproductive organs very obscure; armor i— 3cm
thick, separated from the axis by a definite line; wood 2-3cm thick;
cortical parenchyma i-3cm thick; fibrous zone divided into two or
three rings of fine, more or less distinctly radiate structure ; medulla
2-4cm in diameter, nearly circular, consisting of fine-grained homo-
geneous tissue.
To this species are referred five of the specimens. One of these
which is taken as the tyj^e is the more complete of the two originally
sent to Professor Marsh by Mr. W. H. Reed for whom the species is
named. It is No. 127 of the Yale Collection. The other specimens
are Nos. 500.6, 500.10, 500.19, and 500.29 of the Museum of the
State University of Wyoming. The Yale specimen is larger than any
of the others, weighing 2.04 kilograms, while No. 10 is the smallest
