FOSSIL CYCADEAN TRUNKS FROM WYOMING 265
trunk in either collection and weighs only 0.37 kilogram. No. 500.6
weighs 1.48, No. 500.19, 1.56, and No. 500.29, 1.67 kilograms.
PI. XV represents the best side of the Yale specimen with the ec-
centric medulla projecting.
CYCADELLA BEECHERIANA n. sp.
PI. XVI.
Trunk cylindrical, contracted at base and summit, somewhat lat-
erally compressed, unbranched, 35cm high, 18x22cm in diameter;
rock substance soft, generally light colored with darker stripes and
spots strongly contrasting, of low specific gravity; organs of the armor
horizontal ; phyllotaxy concealed by the outer coating of ramentum ;
leaf scars subrhombic or somewhat elliptical, i5-2ommwide, 5-iomm
high ; leaf bases dark colored, punctate ; walls about 5mm thick, firm,
white, sometimes with a median line ; reproductive organs well de-
veloped, somewhat raised above the general surface, elliptical in cross-
sections, 2 x3cm in diameter, surrounded by subrhombic bract scars in
several rows, the central portion heterogeneous and more or less crys-
tallized; armor 3-4cm thick, joining the axis by an irregular line ;
wood 3-4cm thick; cortical parenchyma i-3cm thick; fibrous zone
2cm thick not differentiated into rings, firm and dark colored ; medulla
mostly wanting in the only specimen known, the preserved remains
flinty and white.
Of this species there has been thus far found less than half of one
trunk. The upper two thirds of this consists of the fragment No. 128
of the Yale collection. When I studied this fragment in November,
1898, it was all in once piece, but subsequently broke into two nearly
equal pieces by an oblique transverse fracture, and a small lump came
out of the lower one of these pieces. While studying the larger col-
lection at Washington in June, 1899, I felt the need of again seeing
the two Yale specimens in order to correlate them with the rest, and
at my request Dr. C. E. Beecher kindly sent them to me for the pur-
pose. As soon as I saw this fragment I at once recognized its resem-
blance to a smaller fragment of the Knight collection. No. 500.54,
which I had been unable to class with any of the rest. On confront-
ing them it was found that No. 500.54 of the Wyoming collection
fitted perfectly on the lower end of No. 128 of the Yale collection,
thus nearly completing it in that direction, but still leaving a small
part of the base unrepresented. Thus restored the specimen repre-
sents nearly half of the original trunk, which was split down quite
