266 WARD
evenly from summit to base on a longitudinal plane a trifle on one side
of the center. On the fractured surface thus presented the internal
characters are exposed with great clearness.
As a partial recognition of the interest taken by Dr. Beecher in the
subject of cycads in general and in the Wyoming specimens in par-
ticular I dedicate this species to him.
The Yale specimen weighs 3.1S and the Knight specimen 1.45
kilograms.
PL XVI represents the inner fractured surface of the specimen as
restored, the lines separating all four of the pieces being distinctly
visible.
CYCADELLA WYOMINGENSIS n. sp.
PI. XVII.
Trunks relatively large (25-30cm high, i5-35cm in diameter),
short-conical or slightly contracted at the base, more or less laterally
compressed, unbranched or with a few projecting secondary axes ; rock
substance hard and fine-grained, generally light colored but with vary-
ing shades, of medium specific gravity ; organs of the armor slightly
ascending ; rows of scars from left to right making an angle with the
axis of 7o°-8o°, those from right to left, of 45° ; leaf scars subrhombic,
i5-2omm wide, 8-1 2mm high; leaf bases relatively dark, affected
with black or sometimes white tubular punctations; walls 2-4 mm.
thick, light colored and striate but without any proper commissure ;
reproductive organs few but often well developed, sometimes project-
ing or passing through the outer coating, elliptical in cross-section,
2 X 3cm in diameter, surrounded by mostly obscure rather large in-
volucral bract scars of variable shape, the central portion solid but
heterogeneous in structure ; armor 3— 6cm thick, joined to the axis by
a definite but usually irregular, sometimes scalloped line ; wood 3—4
cm thick; cortical parenchyma io-i5mm thick; fibrous zone 1—2 cm
thick, usually consisting of two rings, one or both radiate in struc-
ture, the medullary rays often distinct; medulla 5-iocm in diameter,
the cross-section elliptical in the compressed specimens, of a nearly
homogeneous fine-grained structure.
This species includes some of the handsomest specimens in the col-
lection, having about a medium size, and therefore fairly representa-
tive of the Jurassic cycads. Nos. 500.3, 500.14, and 500.15 are
nearly perfect trunks. The rest are fragments. Nos. 500- 7 ^^^ 500* 2*-*
are somewhat thin segments bounded by transverse fractures, and
almost certainly belong to the same trunk at different elevations. No.
