268 WARD
exposed in one specimen, showing large scars of the medullary rays,
consisting of elongated alternating depressions, io-i5mm long, 5-8mm
wide, each with a raised point or cushion above the middle; medulla
4cm in diameter, hard, fine-grained, and homogeneous.
This species consists of Nos. 500.63 and 500.76, which seem to
belong to the same trunk but are not exactly contiguous. They prob-
ably belong end on end. No. 500.62 being the upper segment and
reaching nearly to the apex of the trunk, while No. 500.76 falls con-
siderably short of reaching the base. The trunk probably had a height
of about 20cm. No. 500.62 has lost the medulla, thus exposing the
inner wall of the woody axis as described. Both specimens are nearly
covered without by the coating of ramentum and the transverse frac-
tures reveal its nature better than in any other specimens in the col-
lection. One of these surfaces (the upper fracture of No. 500.76) has
been cut across and polished, and microscopic slides prepared from the
region which most clearly shows the transition of the ramentum to the
outer investiture (see PI. XIV). This polished surface was photo-
graphed natural size and also enlarged four times linear, and the most
instructive portions of the enlarged view have been selected to illustrate
the behavior of the ramentaceous chaff in forming the external layer.
On account of the great interest taken by Dr, F. H. Knowlton in
the question of the true nature of this peculiar generic character, the
material assistance he has rendered me in preparing and examining
microscopic slides illustrating it, and the fact that the most successful
of these investigations have been made on specimens of this species, I
have thought it a proper recognition of his services that the species
should bear his name.
The weight of No. 500.62 is 1.22, and that of No, 500.76 (before
cutting) 1.39 kilograms.
PI. XVIII, Fig. 2, and Pis. XIX and XX, illustrate the instructive
specimen No. 500.76. The polished surface of the upper transverse
fracture, from which the microscopic slides were taken, is represented
by PI. XVIII, Fig. 2. The figure is somewhat enlarged and even here
the origin of the ramentum from the sides of the leaf bases is distinctly
visible without a lens. The line dividing the armor from the outer
layer is clear and a good general idea of the nature of the latter can be
gained from this view. The irregular attachment of the armor to the
axis is also well shown.
Pis. XIX and XX represent two areas of the polished upper transverse
plane enlarged four diameters. An inspection of PI. XVIII, Fig. 2,
shows that there is a short interval near the center of the specimen over
