28o WARD
lection, they resemble each other in all the main points. No. 500.28
is smaller and more compressed, and is mostly black on the outer sur-
face, but the outer coating has pretty much entirely disappeared and
the leaf scars are clearly exposed. The fracture at the base also re-
veals some very definite internal structure. No. 500.31 shows much
less but so far as visible the characters are the same. The former
weighs 2.33 and the latter 3.97 kilograms. The specific name refers
to the somewhat negative and meager character of the specimens.
CYCADELLA CONCINNA n. sp.
Trunk small (12cm high, 14x15cm in diameter), irregularly and
obliquely short-conical, somewhat vertically compressed, unbranched,
broad at the concave base, terminating in an imperfect bud ; rock soft
on the surface, harder within, dark colored or bluish except a light
weathered area, the specific gravity above the normal ; organs of the
armor at right angles to the oblique axis ; rows of scars from left to
right making an angle with the axis of 75째-8o째, those from right to left
of 30째-40째; leaf scars narrowly subrhombic, very small, 1 2-1 3mm
wide, 3-5mm high; leaf bases dark, firm but porous; walls 3-5mm
thick, of denser structure than the leaves, lighter colored, sometimes
with darker stripes; reproductive organs doubtful and practically
wanting; armor 2cm thick, joined to the axis by a definite line; wood
3cm thick, undifferentiated; medulla elliptical, 3x6cm thick, smooth
and homogeneous.
It has been necessary to regard the nearly perfect, compact, and
rather handsome little trunk No. 500.16 as constituting a species by
itself, and it is much to be hoped that other specimens of the same
may be found. It weighs 2.18 kilograms.
CYCADELLA CREPIDARIA n. sp.
Trunk small, elliptical in cross-section, much vertically compressed,
having the form, when inverted, of a shoe or moccasin, having a
height (thickness) of 7cm, a width (lesser diameter) of 12cm, and a
length (greater diameter) of 19cm, with two lateral axes nearly at
right angles to the primary axis, the terminal bud forming a large
raised area, the base projecting downward in a rounded protuberance ;
rock soft and coarse-grained, dark brown or nearly black, bluish
within, of low specific gravity; organs of the armor mostly appressed
or concealed ; leaf scars where visible distorted and abnormal in shape,
subelliptical, I2-I5mm wide, 4-5mm high; leaf bases coarse and
