FOSSIL CYCADEAN TRUNKS FROM WYOMING 283
Carbon County in which, the locality for all the specimens is located.
It constitutes an almost complete trunk, but came in two nearly equal
pieces, the fracture passing through the narrowest dimension, through
the center of the apex, down the back and lower side and emerging at
the center of the basal concavity along a nearly even plane. Unfortu-
nately the interior thus exposed shows scarcely any structure.
CYCADELLA KNIGHTII n. sp.
PI. XXI.
Trunks very large (30-4ocm high, 19x28cm in diameter), sub-
ellipsoidal, somewhat laterally compressed, unbranched, depressed at
the summit; axis eccentric; rock hard, somewhat mineralized, dark
colored or nearly black, of high specific gravity ; organs of the armor
horizontal ; rows of scars from left to right forming an angle of 45°
with the axis, those from right to left of 70° ; leaf scars subrhombic
or subelliptical, i8-2omm wide, 8-i2mm high; leaf bases hard, punc-
tate; walls 3-5mm thick, hard, sti-iate, with or without a median
groove; reproductive organs few, poorly developed, flush with the
surface or slightly raised, elliptical in cross-section, 2 x3cm in diame-
ter, surrounded by large subrhombic involucral bract scars passing into
leaf scars, the central portion solid and showing the scars of the floral
organs ; armor 4-6cm thick, obscurely attached to the axis ; woody
zone 3-4cm thick, undifferentiated; medulla 6x locm in diameter, dif-
ficult to distinguish from the woody zone, hard, and black with flinty
or crystalline areas.
The next largest specimen in the collection and probably the finest
from the standpoint of symmetry and general appearance is No. 500.-
65. It came in two pieces of unequal size caused by a transverse frac-
ture below the middle. The larger piece weighs 15.48 and the smaller
9.8 kilograms, making the total weight 25.28 kilograms. There was
one other specimen, viz.. No. 500.33, which so closely resembles this
that it is impossible to separate it. It consists of considerably over
half of the lower portion of a somewhat smaller trunk, having the base
perfect and a nearly horizontal transverse fracture across the trunk
above. This weighs 8.87 kilograms.
I take great pleasure in dedicating this fine species of Cycadella, to
Prof. Wilbur C. Knight, State Geologist of Wyoming, through whose
enterprise the collection was made and w^ho has so generously placed
it in my hands for elaboration.
PI. XXI represents the best preserved side of No. =^00.65.
