ANNUAL REPORT OF SECRETARY 5
common interest, and this movement was successful. The Joint
Commission was created, a permanent body consisting of three
members each from the Anthropological, Biological, Chemical,
Geographic, and Philosophical Societies. The functions of the
Commission were advisory, except that it might "execute in-
structions on general subjects and in special cases from two or
more of the societies participating ;" but it was provided that no
society should be bound by the Commission to an act as to which
it had not given instructions.
Through this Commission a joint directory of the scientific
societies was issued annually, beginning with 1889. The local
arrangements for the Washington meeting of the American As-
sociation for the Advancement of Science (1891) were made,
and the surplus of money acquired through subscriptions for
that purpose was afterward expended in the purchase of furni-
ture for rooms at the Cosmos Club in which meetings of the
societies and their governing boards were held. In 1889 and
1890 the Commission conducted the Saturday lectures, but it
afterward neglected this function, which was taken up in an
irregular way by individual societies.
In 1893 the Entomological Society was added to the cooper-
ating group, with the privilege of a single representative in the
Joint Commission, and the following year the Geological was
admitted with two representatives.
Early in the year 1895, a further measure of integration was
adopted by enlarging the functions of the Joint Commission.
It was empowered: "(«) to provide for joint meetings of the
Societies, (3) to conduct courses of popular lectures, (c) to pre-
pare a Joint Directory of the members of the Societies, (^) to
distribute to all members of the Societies periodic advance no-
tices of the meetings of the several Societies, and (e^ to act in
the interest of the component Societies at the instance of any of
them." The expenses were borne by the several societies in the
ratio of their membership. The new Commission was composed
of the officers and administrative boards of the several societies,
and despite extensive overlapping in the membership it included
about ninety persons. The details of its work were entrusted to
an Executive Committee comprising the four officers of the Com-
mission and one member- at-large from each society represented.
