6 GILpBERT
The new Commission continued the issue of the Joint Direc-
tory. In 1896 it tried the experiment of issuing monthly ad-
vance notices of the meetings of all the societies, giving the
titles of communications to be expected ; but the experiment was
not regarded as successful and the notices were discontinued.
It conducted the Saturday lectures in 1896 and 1897. It con-
ducted fourteen union meetings of the component societies,
twelve on the occasions of the annual addresses of retiring Presi-
dents, a memorial meeting in memory of Dana, Huxley, Pas-
teur, and Von Helmholz, and a memorial meeting in memory
of G. Brown Goode.
The Commission also considered and took action on two mat-
ters of public policy affecting the interests of the general body
of scientific men. It formally expressed approval of the request
to Congress by the Secretary of Agriculture that provision be
made for a permanent ' Director-in-chief of Scientific Bureaus
and Investigations ' in the Agricultural Department ; and, through
resolutions, correspondence, and the personal efforts of a com-
mittee, it antagonized a bill pending in the United States Senate
for the restriction of vivisection.
While the motives and opinions leading to these two measures
were shared by nearly all members of the Commission, there
was serious doubt as to the propriety of permitting a Commis-
sion organized primarily for business purposes to attempt to rep-
resent the scientific body of Washington on questions of such
breadth and importance. The functions specifically contem-
plated in the organization of the Commission were somewhat
routine in their nature, and the officers chosen to execute them
were selected with special reference to business qualifications.
It was thought by some that the powers of the Commission should
be restricted, and by others that large powers were desirable
but that the body exercising them should be chosen with less at-
tention to business qualifications and more regard to scientific
attainments. An agitation followed in which the Geological
Society took the initiative, preparing a historical statement which
was printed and distributed for the information of members of
all the societies, and which, I may add in passing, has been
freely used in the preparation of this report.
