ANNUAL REPORT OF SECRETARY 9
The committee met the same evening and increased its mem-
bership to fifteen by adding Messrs. Marcus. Baker, G. K.
Gilbert, Lester F. Ward, F. W. Clarke, Bernard R.
Green, J. W. Powell and Charles D. Walcott.
Other meetings of the committee were held on January 17th
and 19th, and its report was submitted to the Joint Commission at
its annual meeting January 19th. The report presented a proposed
act of incorporation, proposed by-laws, and recommendations
concerning procedure. Three alternative plans were suggested
for determining the personnel of the nucleus of the Academy.
The report was ordered printed and copies were submitted to
the constituent societies for their action. On the 25th of January
the Joint Commission again met, received reports from the
societies on the report as a whole, and on the alternative plans
for forming the nucleus, amended the act of incorporation and
by-laws in several particulars, and referred the document back
to the Committee on Constitution for unification. The plan
adopted for the selection of the nucleus was as follows : " Each
member of the Joint Commission to prepare a ballot containing
not more than one hundred names of persons now members of
one or more of the scientific societies of Washington, the ballot
to be canvassed by the Executive Committee of the Commission,
and the seventy-five persons whose names appear on the greatest
number of ballots to constitute the original membership of the
Academy."
The ballot thus provided for was cast January 31st, but its re-
sult was not promulgated until February 12th, after the ratifica-
tion of the plan of organization had been completed.
On the 2d of February the Joint Commission received the
second report of its committee on constitution and adopted the
plan of organization, with modification. The President was in-
structed to call a meeting of the Academy as soon as ratification
by the constituent societies was completed. At the final meet-
ing of the Joint Commission held March 22, 1898, the furniture
owned by the Commission was presented to the Cosmos Club,
its archives were presented to the Washington Academy of
Sciences, and the ballots whereby the nucleus of the Academy
was selected were presented to the Academy in a sealed pack-
