302 WALCOTT
Etcheminian ' series of New Brunswick and Newfoundland,
and because he gave much more consideration to the results of
theoretic biologic studies than to the already established strati-
graphic succession of the faunas ; and this was carried still
further when the Lower Cambrian (Olenellus zone) of the At-
lantic Province was referred to a pre-Cambrian Paleozoic ter-
rane.^
The name Olenellus is here used in the general sense given
it by me in 1888 at the Geological Congress in London. The
species O. hrdggej'i has been referred to the genus Hohnia^ but
it still remains in the Mesonacidse, a family of trilobites con-
fined, so far as known, to the Lower Cambrian fauna. No
attempt will be made in this article to discuss the faunas of the
Cambrian or their biologic relations, my object being to show
their stratigraphic relations and succession. The genus Proto-
lenus appears to occur stratigraphically between the Olenellus
and Paradoxides horizons, and it is probable that it will be
found associated with Olenellus below and with Paradoxides or
Olenoides above when we come to know more of the Cambrian
faunas.
In the broad generalizations on the Cambrian system pub-
lished in 1891 there are many partial and tentative conclusions,
but the main points of the classification are fully outlined. Many
pages are devoted to unsolved problems. One of those for New-
foundland was stated as follows •}
The determination of the relation of the Cambrian rocks of
St. Marys and Trinity Bays to the basal conglomerate in the
Manuels Brook section, to ascertain if a series of Cambrian
strata occurs between the lowest recognized Cambrian of Con-
ception Bay and Manuels Brook and the pre-Cambrian rocks of
Trinity and St. Marys Bays, as thought by the Newfoundland
geologists. If such a series be found its fauna should be care-
fully collected and studied with reference to its being basal
Cambrian or pre-Cambrian.
A problem for New Brunswick^ reads :
The clearer identification of the Lower Cambrian or Olenel-
'A Paleozoic Terrane Beneath the Cambrian: Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci.,
Vol. XII, pp. 41-56.
» Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 81, p. 380.
' I^oc. cit., p. 381.
