LOWER CAMBRIAN TERRANE 305
Hanford Brook section of New Brunswick. As my study in
1899 began with the Smith Sound section, and it was there that
the Olenellus fauna was found in the central portion of the ' Pale-
ozoic terrane beneath the Cambrian,' that section will first be
noticed. Other sections of the Cambrian rocks of southeastern
Newfoundland will next be taken up, before^the New Bruns-
wick Cambrian rocks are considered.
Mr. S. Ward Loper accompanied me, to aid in collecting fos-
sils. Mr. J. P. Howley, Government Geologist of Newfound-
land, joined us a few days after our arrival in Smith Sound.
From his intimate knowledge of localities of Cambrian rocks,
acquired when making the geologic map of the Peninsula of
Avalon, Mr. Howley was able to guide us quickly to the best
sections and exposures about Trinity Bay. Except for his help
it would have been impossible, in the month at our disposal,
to overcome the physical obstacles of fog, snow, rain and
storm, and accomplish the object of the trip. We found the
sections published in the Geology of Newfoundland to be es-
sentially correct, and were so fortunate as to establish the
stratigraphic succession from the Middle Cambrian down
through the Lower Cambrian and Upper Algonkian to the
Signal Hill sandstone of the Avalon series of the Algonkian.
Mr. Howley studied certain problems in which he was interested,
while I investigated the problems connected with the Cambrian
succession of strata and faunas.
Description of Sections,
northwest side of trinity bay.
Smith Sound Section. — On the northern shore of Smith
Sound, east and west of Smith Point, the Cambrian rocks are
well exposed along the shore. At Broad Cove, west of the
point, the transition beds between the Upper Cambrian (Olenian)
and the Middle Cambrian (Paradoxidian) are concealed by the
drift at the head of the cove. West of the cove the fissile and
arenaceous shales of the Upper Cambrian are well exposed and
contain Olenus. On the eastern side of Broad Cove the Middle
Cambrian is exposed. The measured section begins with the
dark argillaceous shales, and is as follows :
