306 WALCOTT
Middle Cambrian^ dowtzward. — •
Feet.
la. Dark, argillaceous shales, with fragments of Paradoxides
in the upper portion. At 45 feet down the Paradoxides
are abundant ; also Acrothele^ Obolus (L,.) ferrugineus^
Ptychoparia^ etc. At no feet down a 4-inch band of
pinkish limestone carrying fragments of trilobites occurs.
A roll in the strata comes in at this point and continues
for a considerable distance along the shore. It starts
betwee'^i the two east wharves at Broad Cove, and ex-
tends some distance east of the eastern point of Broad
Cove no
lb. Below the limestone greenish shale extends downward to a
layer of reddish argillaceous shale 20 feet in thickness... 80
No recognizable fossils were found in this bed.
ic. Pinkish nodular limestone in several layers, interbedded in
reddish shale 4
Fossils: Paradoxides (undet.), Ptychoparia.
id. Reddish-purple argillaceous shales with interbedded
greenish-colored bands 1 35
This band of shales corresponds stratigraphically to the
Protolenus zone of the Hanford Brook section of New
Brunswick. A basalt dike cuts through the shales a few
feet above their base. On the weathered surface it has
the appearance of a massive sandstone. It is 3 feet 4
inches in thickness, is vertical, and the dip of its cleavage
planes is almost coincident with the dip of the shales.
le. Nodular limestones. A pinkish layer 4 inches thick con-
tains at base numerous fragments of trilobites and ap-
pears to be made up of a conglomerate formed of frag-
ments of pinkish-colored limestone and purple shale,
and dark iron- or manganese-stained nodules resembling
a Stromatoporoid-like growth, and a few small quartz
pebbles.
The entire stratum is as follows :
Inches.
Dark, nodular limestone 25
Purplish-colored shale 2
Pinkish limestone 2
Brick- red shale 3
Pinkish conglomerate } limestone...... 4 3
At the point of exposure on the shore this band is faulted
down 15 feet to the west. It is exposed near the top of
the bank on the eastern side of the fault, where its dip is
lower than on the western side.
The stratum le is taken as the base of the Middle Cambrian
(Paradoxidian). It is the horizon indicated by Mr.
Matthew in his diagrammatic section as the base of the
