LOWER CAMBRIAN TERRANE 3O9
Feet.
2h. Reddish-purple, argillaceous shales, with irregularly dis-
tributed bands of nodular limestone of varying thickness.
A layer of nodular limestone 42 feet from the summit
has 12 inches of pinkish and reddish-purple limestone
above, with 10 inches of greenish limestone below. In
both layers numerous tubes of Coleololdes occur. At
66 feet below the summit a second band of nodular
limestone 20 inches in thickness occurs. Thin layers
of nodular limestone occur both above and below the
two thicker bands mentioned 136
2i. Green argillaceous shale, with a few thin layers of purple
shale, also scattered layers of pinkish-colored, nodular
limestone TpVi
Fossils :
Annelid trails are abundant in some portions of the
greenish-colored shales.
2j. Reddish-purple shale, with payers of greenish- and pinkish-
colored limestone nodules scattered irregularly on the
line of bedding. The nodular limestones are usually
from 2 to 4 inches in thickness, but at 60 feet from the
top a layer 12 inches thick occurs 185
The section is here cut off by the drift coming down to the
water's edge.
The nodular limestones of the Smith Point section are one of the
most noticeable features of the lower portion of the section. Plate
XXII illustrates narrow bands of nodules about 350 feet below the
massive nodular limestone of Smith Point, which is beautifully shown on
plates XXIII and XXIV. The only fossils found in the lower part of the
section except annelid trails occur in the nodules. The bedding planes
of the shale in the slate quarries on Smith Sound are clearly indicated,
at nearly right angles to the cleavage, by the lines of scars left by the
nodules, as is shown by plate XXV.
Base of Cambrian in Smith and Random. Sounds. — The
base of the Cambrian is exposed at the slate quarries east of
Tilton Head, on the north side of Smith Sound, in the synclinal
basin formed of the Avalon and subjacent Cambrian rocks.
The section, however, is not here complete. On the south
side of Smith Sound, near Britannia Cove, the Smith Point
limestone, carrying H3'olithes, etc., is well exposed, and 220
feet above it, in the green shales, Olenellus (//.) broggeri
was found. Below, the limestone beds are much broken.
Crossing Random Island from Britannia Cove to the north shore
of Random Sound, one finds a much more complete section, ^
