LOWER CAMBRIAN TERRANE 3II
Feet,
ik. Reddish-purple and green argillaceous slates, cleaned so
as to make a good roofing slate, at Bryant's quarries
about I mile east of Hickmans Point. The estimated
thickness of this slate in the syncline is over 200 feet.. 200 -f-
The total thickness of the section up to the Hyolithes lime-
stone is over 500 feet, which, with the 369 feet above the
limestone at Smith Point, gives a total thickness of fully
900 feet for the Lower Cambrian on the western side of
Trinity Bay.
Fosters Point Section. — At Fosters Point, on the southeastern
end of Random Island, the Smith Point (Hyolithes) limestone is
well shown. The strata are nearly vertical and are cut by-
dykes of greenstone. This distributed condition extends up-
ward in the section nearly to the Paradoxides davisi bed, where
the dip is more regular. The Olenus horizon was found at an
estimated distance of 200 feet above the Paradoxides zone, where
Olenus is associated with several species of Ostracods. Above
this there are nearly 1000 feet of shales and interbedded sand-
stones, much like the lower portion of the Great Belle and
Kelley Island section of Conception Bay.
SOUTHEAST SIDE OF TRINITY BAY.
Hearts Delight Section. — On the south side of Hearts Delight
Harbor the sandstones of the Algonkian Random terrane, be-
neath the Cambrian, dip to the northwest at about 75°, the
Cambrian conglomerate and shales above having the same
strike and dip.
Lower Cambrian., upward. — Inches.
la. Conglomerate formed of bits of Random gray sandstones,
fragments of reddish sandstone, dark sandy shales,
quartz jDcbbles, etc., with a calcareous sandstone matrix,
3 to 8 inches thick.
This conglomerate is spread over the irregular upper sur-
face of the Random sandstone. It is slightly calcareous
in places, and looks very much like the the basal bed of
the Random Sound Lower Cambrian. The best section
of it on the east side of Trinity Bay is exposed on Hope-
all Hill, at the entrance of Ilopeall Harbor, about 8
miles south of Hearts Delight.
At Spread Eagle Point, opposite Dildo, the basal con-
glomerate is from 24 to 30 inches in thickness, with thin,
irregular layers of limestone in the upper portion that
contain immense numbers of Coleoloidcs and a small
Obolella-\\\i& shell 3-8
