312 WALCOTT
Feet,
lb. Greenish sandy and argillaceous shale. At 14 feet large,
slightly calcareous oval nodules occur, and at 49 feet a
thin band of nodular limestone 75
ic. Brick-red argillaceous shales, with irregularly arranged
bands of calcareous nodules 41
Fossils :
Coleololdes^ and slender tubes of HyolitheSi suggesting
Hyollthes co?n?minis .
id. Greenish argillaceous shales, with larger and more numer-
ous calcareous nodules than in ic 38
The nodules form almost solid layers in some places.
Coleoloides occurs abundantly in the calcareous nodules.
le. Massive-bedded, pinkish-colored limestone, with many
nodular, dark, small concretions, suggesting St?- 0771a-
topora 28
Fossils :
Fragments of fossils occur all the way through this band.
Coleoloides and a slender Hyolithes^ fi^agmentsof Ole7i-
ellus^ and Agraidos ? were recognized. At Hearts De-
light Point, to the north, Ole7iellus ( H.) brogoreri was
found in the upper layer, corresponding to the upper
layer of the Smith Point limestone.
if. Reddish argillaceous shales, with thin bands of pinkish
limestone 79
Fossils :
Twelve feet from the base a band of limestone 6 inches
in thickness occurs, carrying numerous fragments of
fossils, including the genera Coleoloides^ Oleitellus^
and Agra2ilos ?.
ig. Alternating bands of reddish and greenish shale, with cal-
careous nodules 145
ih. Greenish arenaceous shales 127
li. Pinkish and reddish nodular limestone i ft. 6 in.
Reddish shale 4
Pinkish-colored nodular limestone 2 7^
ij. Greenish arenaceous shale 42
ik. Reddish arenaceous shale 21
ll. Pinkish-colored limestone 12 inches in thickness where
first met with, but thickening on the strike to 4 to 5 feet,
where there is a well-marked conglomerate near the bot-
tom, formed of rolled pinkish- and greenish-colored lime-
stone pebbles. Both pebbles and matrix are filled with
fragments of trilobites and Coleoloides 5
Among the fossils were recognized Obolella ?, Hyolithes^
Microdiscus^ and Sole7iopleu7'a.
