LOWER CAMBRIAN TERRANE 335
doxides fauna, ^ but in 1895, when speaking of the Manuels
Brook conglomerate and sandstones, he says '?
No fauna of trilobites has yet been found below this sand-
stone. Here, then, should be drawn the line between Cambrian
and pre-Cambrian.
Above this limit there have thus far been found on the At-
lantic coast of America the following trilobite faunas :
TT /->!,• ( Peltura fauna.
Upper Cambrian...-^ ^, .
^^ \ Ulenus rauna.
T /^ 1 • ( Paradoxides fauna.
Lower Cambrian...^ r\^ ^^ e
[ Ulenellus launa.
He further concludes that the Protolenus fauna is in this region
more primitive than the Olenellus fauna, but conjectures that it
may have been contemporary with the latter elsewhere.^
In 1897 Mr. Matthew contends that the presence of Dorypyge
in the ' Hastings Cove fauna ' establishes a strong connection
with the Olenellus fauna, and that, from the established succes-
sion of Cambrian faunas in Lower Cambrian beds in Scandi-
navia, Wales, and elsewhere in Eastern Canada, "we are
therefore compelled to assume that the Hastings Cove fauna is
as recent as the Upper Paradoxides beds."*
In speaking of Olenellus in reviewing ' Billings's Primordial
Fossils of Vermont and Labrador,' Mr. Matthew says :°
The other Primordial form described by Billings therein were
the two Olenelli, O. Thomfsoni and O. Vermoniatia, two
Salterellas, and Plantse, Protozoa and Brachipoda. From the
following remarks it will be seen that in the opinion of the writer
the study of Billings's types has thrown considerable light on the
geological horizon of Olenellus, and appear to link this genus
with the Middle rather than the Lowest Cambrian.
It is only just to Prof. Jules Marcou to say that this is the po-
sition which he has contended for as the true age of Olenellus,
determined by him from a study of the geology in the vicinity
of Swanton, Vt., and Point Levis, near Quebec. I think he
' On the Classification of Cambrian Rocks in Acadia : Can. Rec. Sci., Vol. IV,
1889, pp. 303, 304.
2 The Protolenus Fauna : Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., Vol. XIV, 1895, p. 103.
'Loc. cit., p. 152.
♦Studies of Cambrian Faunas : Trans. Roy. Soc. Can., 2d Ser. Vol. II, Sec.
IV, p. 193.
^ Ivoc. cit., pp. 194, 195.
