12
GILBERT
C. A. Schott,
Chas. Schuchert,
E. A. Schwartz,
E. A. de Schweinltz,
C. D. Sigsbee,
C. T. Simpson,
E. F. Smith,
A. R. Spofford,
T. W. Stanton,
Matilda C. Stevenson,
I^eonhard Stejneger,
Geo. M. Sternberg.
C. W. Stiles,
H. N. Stokes,
G. B. Sudworth,
W. T. Swingle,
Wirt Tassin,
O. H. Tittmann,
C. H. Townsend,
F. W. True,
Henry W. Turner,
M. B. Waite,
Chas. D. Walcott,
Lester F. Ward,
R. B. Warder,
C. K. Wead,
H. J. Webber,
Walter H. Weed,
Charles A. White,
C. David White,
C. Whitehead,
Milton Whitney,
H. W. Wiley,
Bailev Willis,
H. M. Wilson,
John M. Wilson,
A. F. Woods,
Carroll D. Wright,
Walter Wyman.
At a meeting held March 29th the Academy made several
amendments to its by-laws and inserted therein the name of the
Medical Society of the District of Columbia as one of the affili-
ated societies. During the progress of the movement to create
an Academy the Medical Society made application to the Joint
Commission for admission to the group of affiliated societies.
The Commission lacked authority to grant the application, but
referred it to the several societies with favorable recommenda-
tion. The general sentiment in the societies was favorable to
the admission of the Medical Society, but as the procedure for
the formation of an Academy was already somewhat complicated
it was thought best by some of the societies to defer action until
the reorganization had been completed. The Medical Society
finding its position in the matter undignified withdrew its appli-
cation. As soon as the organization of the Academy had pro-
gressed sufficiently far the Board of Managers recommended to
the Academy a resolution inviting the Medical Society to be-
come one of the affiliated societies ; but when the matter was
presented to the Academy and it was pointed out that the pro-
posed invitation would not materially abridge the procedure
necessary to secure the desired result, a more direct course was
decided on and the name of the Medical Society inserted in its
appropriate place in the by-laws before their final adoption.
This action was subsequently ratified by the Medical Society.
As members of the Medical Society had not been eligible, as
such, for election to the Academy when the original members
were chosen, special provision was made for giving the Society
