ANNUAL REPORT OF SECRETARY I 3
a proper representation. A committee was appointed to select
suitable names from the Medical Society, and these names,
with suitable credentials, were submitted to the Academy, to-
gether with those of a few other nominees, on the 27th of May.
The ensuing vote resulted in the election to membership of the
following persons :
Geo. M. Acker, Henry D. Fry, Jas. C. Merrill,
Samuel S. Adams, W. W. Godding, Willis L. Moore,
I. S. L. Bermann, Jos. Taber Johnson, Rupert Norton,
J. Wesley Bovee, Geo. W. Johnston, Robert Reyburn,
J. H. Bryan, W. W. Johnston, C. W. Richardson,
Thos. S. Claytor, A. F. A. King, A. R. Shands,
G. Wythe Cook, C. H. A. Kleinschmidt, I. S. Stone.
3. MEMBERSHIP.
As stated in the preceding paragraphs the members of the
Academy were elected in three groups. A nucleus of sevent}^-
five was chosen by the Joint Commission January 31st, and
confirmed by the Incorporators March 5th. Eighty-four other
members, accounted as ' original,' were elected March 17th,
and twenty-one others, chiefly from the Medical Society, were
elected May 27th, making a total of one hundred and eighty
members elected. Of this number twelve declined membership,
twenty-one others failed to perfect their membership by the pay-
ment of dues within the time specified by the by-laws, and of
those who perfected their membership three have resigned.
The present number of members is one hundred and forty-four.
4. TRANSACTIONS OF THE ACADEMY.
The principal work of the Academy in 1898 was organiza-
tion, the determination of its rules and membership, and the
deliberate preparation of plans for future activities. A number
of business meetings were held by the Academy and the Board
of Managers in the spring, and the Board of Managers held an-
other series of meetings in the autumn and winter. Under the
schedule of functions adopted by the Academy the Board has
developed the machinery for the publication of proceedings, the
conduct of a lecture course, and the holding of occasional meet-
ings for the reception of new scientific material. The function
