i6
NELSON
contributed largely to the extent and value of recent collections.
The bulk of new material, however, has been gathered by
Mr. E. A. Goldman and myself. Since 1891 we have been
engaged in making explorations for the United States Bio-
logical Survey, under the Department of Agriculture. Western
Guatemala has been explored and Mexico has been repeatedly
traversed from north to south and from sea to sea. The routes
of nearly every naturalist whose work is recorded have been fol-
lowed, and almost all the known t3^pe localities of Mexican mam-
mals have been visited. The series of squirrels thus brought
together has given an insight into the relationships of the mem-
bers of this group, which lack of material had hitherto rendered
impossible. Moreover, familiarity with the topography of the
country and the geographic distribution of Mexican and Guate-
malan species gave me advantages not possessed by any pre-
vious worker on Neotropical squirrels.^
During the preparation of the present revision I have been
able to examine representatives — and in most cases types or topo-
types — of nearly all the known species and subspecies found
in Mexico and Central America. Dr. C. Hart Merriam, who
had already done some work on the group, generously placed
in my hands his MS notes and the Biological Survey series
of more than 600 specimens ; Mr. F. W. True, Executive
Curator of the U. S. National Museum, gave me the use of the
National Museum series, and Dr. J. A. Allen, Curator of Mam-
mals in the American Museum of Natural History, forwarded
the Tropical American squirrels, including the types of his spe-
cies, in that collection. These additions brought the total num-
ber of specimens up to 919. But after a little study it be-
came evident that, in order to reach satisfactory conclusions on
many questions of synonymy, definite information was necessary
concerning the types of species described by Gray and others.
Accordingly, a series of specimens from the U. S. National
Museum and Biological Survey collections answering as closely
as possible to the imperfect published descriptions, was sent to
Mr. Oldfield Thomas, Curator of Mammals in the British Mu-
seum, for comparison with the types preserved in London. Mr.
' I am especially indebted to Dr. T. S. Palmer for many valuable suggestions,
particularly in connection with the nomenclature and synonymy.
