20 NELSON
of Mexico and Central America, as against 6 species and 3
varieties enumerated by Allen. In the Mammalia of the ' Bio-
logia Centrali-Americana,' published in 1880, Alston again
recognized 7 species— no more than those mentioned by Lesson
in 1842. This wholesale lumping of widely separated species —
sometimes under a name inapplicable to any of the forms placed
under it — left the group even more complicated than before.
Dr. Allen followed Alston's paper of 1878 by a 'Synonymatic
List of American Sciuri, or Arboreal Squirrels '^ in which he
adopted the latter's conclusions. Trouessart, in his ' Revision
du Genre Ecureuil'^ in 1880, proposed several subgenera and a
few months later enumerated the species in his ' Catalogue des
Mammiferes Vivants et Fossiles ' (Rodentia).^
During the last 18 years no extended papers on Neotropical
squirrels have appeared, but a number of species have been de-
scribed from Mexico and Central America by Allen, Thomas,
Merriam and myself.
NOTES ON DISTRIBUTION AND VARIATION.
Tree squirrels occur in suitable places throughout Mexico
and Central America but the distribution of the various species
depends largely upon the character of the forests. Thus Sciurus
negligens is most abundant in the low, dense forests of ebony,
less than twenty-five feet high, on the hot coast plains, while
its near relative S. deppei loves the shady depths of humid trop-
ical forests on the lower mountain slopes where the damp air
produces an exuberant tree growth and an abundance of para-
sitic plants. The pigmy Sciurus alfari, first mistaken by its
discoverer for a bird — a Dendrocolaptine creeper — also lives in
similar surroundings in the mountains of Costa Rica. The
large species exist under even more varied conditions since
they occur from the hot coast country to the region of oaks and
pines close to timberline, but the ranges of different species or
subspecies are never coincident and overlap only in a few in-
stances, as in the case of S. collicei michalis and S. poliopus
iBull. U. S. Geol. & Geog. Survey Terr., IV, pp. 877-887, 1878.
^Le Naturaliste, II, No. 37, pp. 290-293, Oct., 1880.
3 Bull. Soc d'Etudes Sci. d'Angers, X, pp. 76-82, 1S80.
