SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 21
colimcnsis on the coast of Colima, and S. afache and S. durangi
in the Sierra Madre. No such antagonism exists between the
large species (subgenus Echinosciurtis) and the smaller ones
(subgenera Guerlinguctiis and 3Iicrosciurus) which frequently
occupy the same ranges.
Many species change their environment by periodical migra-
tions in search of food, moving from one locality to another with
the ripening of fruits or seeds upon which they subsist. This
is most marked on high mountains where a species may have a
vertical range of many thousand feet. Dr. Buller obtained a
specimen of Sciurics polioptis ccrvicah's among the pines on the
Sierra Nevada de Colima at an altitude of 12,000 feet, but when
we visited this movmtain at another season, gnawed pine cones
were abundant near the summit, but the squirrels had de-
scended to lower levels and were feeding on wild figs and acorns
at an altitude of 4000-6000 feet. In eastern Queretaro and
northern Hidalgo, S. aiireogaster, a tropical species which
usually ranges below 4000 feet, was found in winter among the
oaks and pines above 8000 feet alt. S. dcppei likewise at
times wanders high above its normal range.
The effect of climate on the character of the pelage is so
marked that it is possible to tell with considerable certainty
whether a species belongs to the tropics or to the higher moun-
tains. Tropical species have thin pelage, short thin under fur,
and coarse, stiff, or almost bristly dorsal hairs ; those of the
Transition and Boreal zones have thick soft pelage with long
dense under fur. These differences are sometimes strikingly
shown in subspecies of the same squirrel : thus the tropical
Sciiiriis mireogaster hypofyrrhiis has thin coarse pelage, while
S. aureogastcr frumcntor, which ranges between the altitudes
of 6000 and 8000 feet on a cold mountain slope, has dense soft
pelage. Species of the hot coasts of Central America are char-
acterized by peculiarly coarse, shining, bristly dorsal hairs.
Seasonal differences in pelage are usually slight, since there is
no area of heavy snow fall or long continued cold weather ex-
cept in the Sierra Madre of Durango and Chihuahua. Indi-
vidual variation, on the other hand, is often excessive and ren-
ders some species extremely difficult to describe. The large
