22 NELSON
number of species and subspecies of these squirrels, together
with their great individual variation, have hitherto proved an
insuperable stumbling block in their treatment. The large
series now available for study shows that the group as a whole
is in a state of evolution and has developed groups of closely
related species or well marked geographic races, often within
very limited areas. For example, in the State of Vera Cruz,
the typical form of Scitirus aureogaster occurs throughout the
northern part, S. aureogaster frumentor on the west-central
border, and S. aureogaster hyfopyrrhus in the southern part.
Many of the subspecies are so different from others of the same
species that without the intermediate series no one would for a
moment suspect their specific identity.
The extraordinary amount of geographical variation in trop-
ical North American squirrels is due mainly to an unusual plas-
ticity of organization which allows slight climatic differences to
produce a visible effect. The most obvious of these influences
are differences in temperature and rainfall with their distribu-
tion through the year, and consequent effect on the vegetation.
The cool forests of the Transition zone in the interior of
southern Mexico and Guatemala are characterized by moderate
rainfall and have what may be called an inland climate. The
forests of the same zone on the mountains bordering the hot coast
plains, exposed to the moisture bearing winds from the sea, re-
ceive a much greater annual rainfall accompanied by cloudiness
and mists, resulting in an exuberance of vegetation not found
elsewhere in this zone. The effects of these differences in hu-
midity upon the squirrels are beautifully illustrated by Sciurus
^oltopus and its subspecies. For example, subspecies hernan-
dezi, nemoralis and cervtcalis, of the drier interior mountains,
are characterized by dull grayish upperparts and white under-
parts, and the absence of sharply contrasting nape and rump
patches. Scmriis -poliopus and its subspecies efftigius inhabit
mountains near the coast, and the effect of the increased humid-
ity is marked by the striking contrast between their gray backs
and bright ferruginous underparts. In addition, efftigkis has
an unusually dark nape patch and brilliantly white ear patches.
Increased humidity within the tropics, also, is usually accom-
