SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 23
panied by increased intensity of coloration. This is well shown
by the dark, rich colors of Scinriis aiircogaster hypofyrrhus of
the humid tropics compared with the paler colors of the closely
related S. atireogaster, of the arid tropics a little farther north.
A similar intensitication of color is characteristic of the squir-
rels inhabiting the humid east coast from Vera Cruz to Pan-
ama, as contrasted with the paler species of the more arid west
coast from Mazatlan to Costa Rica.
SUBGENERA OF NORTH AMERICAN SQUIRRELS.
The tree squirrels of North America may be separated into ten
groups, distinguished by cranial, and sometimes by external
characters. Six of these groups have been already recognized
as of subgeneric rank, and four others are here named.
In discriminating the subgenera of squirrels one of the charac-
ters on which much stress has been laid is the presence or absence
of the small upper premolar. The discussion of the groups in
detail is prefaced, therefore, with a few remarks on this tooth.
Trouessart makes the erroneous statement that in the subgenus
Macroxiis the upper molar series is often | in the young and |-
in the adult, adding that the rudimentary premolar is more or
less speedily shed.^ Under Macroxus he names six Tropical
American squirrels, viz., aureogaster, cBstuaiis, hoffmanni,
deppei, chry stints, and pusilliis. Of these asttians and ho_ff-
7nanm never have the extra premolar, while all of the others,
with the possible exception of chrysiirus, always have it in the
adult skull. The six species named above represent four sub-
genera, two of which were recognized by Trouessart in the same
paper ; one has since been separated by Allen ; another is de-
scribed below. In all North American Squirrels having the extra
premolar, except the Chickarees or Red Squirrels of the United
States and Canada (subgenus Tamtascitirus) , it is well devel-
oped and permanent. Among the Chickarees it is extremely
small, variable in size, shape, and position, and frequently ab-
sent. Dr. Allen states, in his recent revision, that it is absent
' Le Naturaliste, II, No. 37, pp. 292, Oct., iSSo.
