24
NELSON
in thirty percent of the specimens examined. In the skulls of
Tamiasciiirus examined by me the percentage of absences is
much smaller than that given by Dr. Allen, but the tooth was fre-
quently so minute that it could be seen only by the aid of a lens.
It is smallest, most variable and most frequently absent in the
eastern S. hiidsonicus and its subspecies. In the other groups
of North American squirrels, this tooth, when present, is a well-
developed peg, reaching nearly or quite as high as the 2d pre-
molar, and often functional, the crown wearing down with the
adjacent teeth. Skulls from Mexico show conclusively that in
the species of that region, at least, the small premolar is a char-
acter of the adult. It is not present with the milk premolar in
immature skulls, but appears coincidently with the permanent
premolar and is equally persistent. Since it is persistent in cer-
tain groups and always absent in others, it evidently possesses
considerable taxonomic value.
The subgenera recognized in the present paper occupy
clearly defined geographic areas and, without exception, the
ranges of the most closely related groups are separated by
a distinct gap. A curious equality is found in the number of
subgenera belonging respectively to Tropical and Temperate
North America. Five of the ten subgenera belong essentially to
Mexico and Central America, only one having a representative
within the United States. The remaining five belong to Tem-
perate North America, although four of them have each a single
representative in extreme northern Mexico. The distribution of
the subgenera may be tabulated roughly as follows :
AIEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA. UNITED STATES.
Baiosciurus subgen. nov. Tamiasciurus Trouess.
Echinosciurzis Trouess. Neosciurus Trouess.
Arceosciuriis subgen. nov. Parascmriis Trouess.
Not represented. Otoscmrus subgen. nov.
Not represented. Hesperosciurus subgen. nov.
Guerlingueh4,s Gray. Not represented.
Alicrosciurus Allen. Not represented.
The extra premolar is present in all of these groups except
Arceoscmrus, Parasciurtis, and Guerlinguetiis. Guerlinguetus
