26 NELSON
Distribution. — All of Central America and Mexico (except extreme
northern part). Ranges from Arid and Humid Tropical zones up to
Boreal.
External characters. — Form and color extremely variable : body
usually rather slender ; tail long, narrow ; pelage coarse, stiff, almost
bristly, in typical species.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull short, broad, depressed ;
brain case not highly arched but expanded laterally and widening to
occiput; interorbital area broad, rostrum short, broad, and heavy;
nasals about equal to or shorter than interorbital width.
General notes. — S. hypopyrrhus Wagler was named as the type
of Echinosciurus., but most of the red bellied Central American
squirrels were given that name at the time Trouessart wrote, and he
no doubt had in mind some bristly haired species from Central Amer-
ica instead of VVagler's animal. However, Wagler's hypopyrrhus
belongs to the same natural group and must therefore be retained as
the type. Most of the large squirrels in tropical North America belong
to this group. The skulls are distinguished from those of other large
North American species by the combination of two upper premolars
with a short broad rostrum and flattened interorbital region. Echino-
sciurus contains S. aureogaster., S. poliopus., S. yucatanensis, S.
collicei^ S. truei, S. sinaloensis., S. nelsoni., S. socialis., S. griseo-
yiavus., S. goldmani., S. managuensis, S. boothice^ S. adolphei and
S. thomasi with their subspecies. These species occupy nearly all of
the hot coast region of tropical North America and range thence over
the mountains of Central America and southern Mexico. Those of
the highlands of Guatemala and southern Mexico are distinguishable
from those of the hot coasts and the interior of Central America by their
much longer and softer pelage. " In the former series are 6^. aureogaster.,
S. poliopus, S. truei, S. sinaloensis and S. griseojlavus, with their
subspecies. The species of the hot districts on the coast and south-
ward are remarkable for the stiff, harsh and usually shining long hairs
of the back — the character upon which the name of the subgenus
must have been based. S. yucatane?zsis with white ear tufts, and S.
poliopus with a comparatively long, slender rostrum and soft pelage
are least typical. 6". aureogaster hypopyrrhus., the type, is about
midway, in the character of its pelage, between the soft haired species
of the highlands and the harsh haired species of Central America.
The wide geographic range and large number of species of this
group are accompanied by a greater amount of specific variation in the
skull than is shown in the smaller groups. In the species of Central
