SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 29
Distribution. — Most of the wooded parts of the United States and
British America ; south to northern Lower California, Mexico. Bo-
real and Transition zones.
External characters. — Size small — under 450 mm. ; ears long,
well haired, conspicuously tufted in winter; tail short, bushy, flat-
tened ; lateral line (present in summer) black.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \ sometimes \ (the first very small
and irregular in development) ; skull short, wide and depressed; ros-
trum short and stout ; nasals shorter than interorbital breadth ; anterior
end of zygomatic arch unusually broad and abruptly spreading; aud-
ital bullce proportionately large.
General ?iotes. — Tamiasciurus was proposed by Trouessart in 1880
and subsequently dropped into synonymy until revived by Dr. Mer-
riam in 1S92. Curiously enough Trouessart reduced it again to
synonymy in 1S97, uniting it with most other North American squir-
rels under the untenable subgeneric name Macroxus. In 1898 Dr.
Allen again revived the subgenus, which is unquestionably worthy of
recognition as a well marked natural group. Tamiasciurus includes
all of the Chickarees, S. hudsonicus^ S. douglasi and S. fretnonti
with their subspecies. As already stated by Dr. Merriam, this sub-
genus is of Boreal origin, but is also common throughout a large part
of the Transition zone in the United States.
AR^OSCIURUS^ subgen. nov. (p1. I, fig. 3).
Type Sciurus oculatus Peters, from eastern Mexico.
Distribution. — Mountains bordering the tableland of Mexico from
the volcanoes of Orizaba and Toluca north to central Arizona and
west-central New Mexico. Transition zone.
Exter7ial characters. — Size large ; body rather slender ; tail usually
long, sometimes exceeding length of head and body ; upperparts gray
or yellowish ; underparts white or yellowish.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull rather short, depressed ;
braincase broadened at parietals ; occiput low and broad ; front of
skull depressed at base of rostrum (more arched in Parasciurus) ; ros-
trum light ; nasals narrow, slightly tapering posteriorly ; upper end of
premaxill£e narrow.
General 7iotes. — The subgenus Arceosciurus is characteristic of the
Transition zone in the mountains bordering the tableland of Mexico
from Mts. Orizaba and Toluca northward. It is intrusive in the United
* From apaloq, slender ; -j- Sciurus.
