SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 3 1
bushy, flattened ; color usually some shade of brown on upperparts
and buffy or rufous below.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull rather broad, flattened
interorbitally ; rostrum broad and deep at base ; nasals long, ex-
panded at outer end ; braincase not very highly arched but expanded
laterally over parietal region ; audital bullas small ; post-palatal notch
a little farther behind last molar than in Microsciurus (about as in
Baioschirus') ; palatal width between molar series great. The skull
resembles in size and general appearance that of Bawschirzis, from
which it is distinguishable by slender rostrum, proportionately greater
interorbital and zygomatic breadth, and by the absence of the small
premolar.
General itotes. — Gucrling-uetus, proposed by Gray in 182 1, is the
first name available for a subgenus of American squirrels. It was
subsequently discarded by its author for Macroxus, proposed two
years later by Cuvier in the ' Dents des Mammiferes.' In the ' Nom-
enclator Zoologicus,' Agassiz cites Macroxus from the ' Dictionnaire
des Sciences Naturelles, X, 1S18,' but a careful search fails to verify
the reference. The name does appear in the Dictionnaire Classique
d'Histoire Naturelle, Vol. X, 1826, p. 16, which was probably the cita-
tion intended by Agassiz. The ' Dents des Mammiferes' was completed
in 1S25, but on page xvi of the introduction Cuvier states that the
work appeared in parts, and that the part containing the rodents was
issued in 1823; from which therefore must date Macroxus. Subse-
quent writers have followed Gray in ignoring Guerlinguetus in favor
of Macroxtis. The latter name was proposed for the group typified
by Sciurus cestuans of South America, yet Lesson in 1842, Gray
in 1867, and Trouessart in 1880 and 1897, included under it the
most diverse squirrels in America. Guerlinguetus should be strictly
limited to S. cestuans with its numerous subspecies and allies, all of
which have brownish backs with brown, fulvous, or rufous bellies and
a single upper premolar. It is a characteristic group of northern
South America, intrusive in Central America where it is represented
by S. a. ho^manni of Costa Rica and S. richmondi of Nicaragua.
BAIOSCIURUS' subgen. nov. (p1. I, fig. 4.)
Type Sciurus deppei Peters, from Papantla, Vera Cruz.
Distribution. — Northeastern Honduras, Guatemala, Chiapas and
eastern Mexico to Tamaulipas.
' From (iaioc, small ; -f Sciurus.
Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., May, 1899.
