32 NELSON
External characters. — Size small — total length between 350 and
400 mm.; ears long, thinly haired; tail slightly shorter than body,
narrow and flattened.
Cranial characters. — Premolars |^, well developed; skull rather
long and slender; rostrum broad and deep at base; nasals about equal
to interorbital breadth ; anterior end of zygomatic arch narrow and
tapering gradually to junction with premaxilla ; braincase rounded
and slightly arched on posterior half of frontals ; audital bullae propor-
tionately small, smaller than in Guerlinguetus and much smaller
than in Tatniasciurus.
General notes. — Baiosciurus contains but two species, S. deppel
and S. 7ieglige7is. In size and general style of color these squirrels
are very similar to members of the subgenus Gue7-li7iguetus., but are
distinguished by the presence of an extra premolar and other skull
characters. Their size, shape of tail, and form of skull distinguish
them from Microsciurus ; and the slender tail, presence of a well de-
developed small premolar, lack of ear tufts, absence of the black
lateral line and shape of skull separates them from Tamiascttirus.
The group is purely tropical, S. deppei belonging to the Humid and
■5". negligens to the Arid Tropical zones.
Subgenus MICROSCIURUS Allen (p1. I, fig. 6).
Microsciurus Allen, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., VII, p. 333, 1895 ;
Trouessart, Catalogus Mammalium, nov. ed., II, p. 429, 1897.
Type Sciurus alfari Allen, from Jimenez, Costa Rica.
Distribution — Northern South America north to Costa Rica, Cen-
tral America.
External characters — Smallest of American squirrels — total length,
in nearly or quite all the species, under 300 mm. Ears short, rounded,
w^ell haired; tail much shorter than body, slender and rounded.
Cratiial characters — Premolars y. Skull short, broad and highly
arched over braincase : rostrum short, broad and deep at base ; nasals
narrow and shorter than interorbital breadth ; upper end of premax-
illae very heavy; malar broad and expanded vertically; postpalatal
notch only a trifle posterior to last molar.
General notes.— JMicrosciurus is a tropical American subgenus
with numerous species distributed over a large part of northern South
America and may be considered intrusive in Central America, S. al-
fari being the only species known north of Panama. S. piisillus
Desm., S. kuhli (Gray), S. peruajius Allen, S. rtiimuhis Thomas,
and other South American species belong here. Until Dr. Allen de-
