SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 39
Distribution. — Arid tropical lowlands and adjacent mountains of
southern Tamaulipas, northern Vera Cruz, eastern San Luis Potosi,
eastern Queretaro and Puebla, northeastern Hidalgo, and thence south
to border of Humid Tropical zone in central Vera Cruz, and northern
side of Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Oaxaca. (Usually below 4000 ft.
alt., but sporadically up to over 8000 ft. in Hidalgo and Queretaro.)
Characters. — Size large ; color of back pale grizzled gray with nape
patch poorly defined, rusty or yellowish brown ; underparts bright
ferruginous, this color extending up over fore legs and costal area
nearly or quite to top of shoulders. Tail long, flat, and rather slender ;
hairs on back rather coarse and glossy. Teats : p. \ a.|- i. \.
Color. — Top of nose and fore part of crown iron gray ; nape patch
often indistinct and varying from dull yellowish brown to dull rusty
rufous, generally grizzled with gray or whitish ; rest of upperparts in-
cluding upper cheeks, sides and top of neck (below and behind nape
patch) a median line between shoulders, entire lumbar region, rump
and outside of thighs varying from dark iron gray to pale whitish gray ;
fore feet and sometimes outside of fore legs iron gray, usually darker
than back ; hind feet varying from blackish faintly grizzled with gray to
iron gray like back ; sides of nose, lower cheeks and chin pale grizzled
gray ; rest of underparts bright ferruginous, this color usually extend-
ing over outside of fore legs and high up over costal area, sometimes
even meeting and forming a band across top of shoulders ; base of tail
all around like back; rest of tail above black washed with white; be-
low, with a broad median band of ferruginous, bordered by a line of
black and edged with wdiite ; ring around eye dark buff, with an area
of dull yellowish brown extending back nearly or quite to base of ear;
ears gray like crown, or rusty reddish like nuchal patch ; ear patches
(usually absent in summer) dingy gray or whitish. Hairs on back
black, with broad white tips, often mixed with others having broad
median and sometimes l^asal yellow rings. The winter pelage differs
from that of summer mainly in paler upperparts and distinct whitish
ear patches.
Variation. — Sciurus aureogaster presents a wide range of varia-
tion. The underparts range from bright ferruginous to dark ru-
fous, almost like the color of 6". hypopyrrJins. The back varies
from whitish to dark iron gray. The upward extension of ferrugi-
nous on the sides varies from a slight wash just back of fore legs to
a broad band reaching over costal area and across top of shoulders,
covering nearly half of the body.
A specimen from Orizaba in the U. S. National Museum has the
