40 NELSON
rufous reaching up all along the flanks, covering the outside of thighs
and back, and confining the gray dorsal area to a median band on lum-
bar region and rump ; the top of head and nape black, thinly grizzled
with gray, and the tail black thinly washed with gray above, and with
ferruginous along middle of under side. A specimen from Pinal de
Amoles, Qiieretaro, has the upperparts, including outside of legs,
sides of body and upper surface of tail, nearly uniform pale grizzled
gray ; the underparts dingy rusty. A specimen from Catemaco, Vera
Cruz (approching hypopyrrJuis in intensity) has the same pattern as
the one last described, but the breast and inguinal region are grizzled
with gray. The width of the red median band on the under side of
tail varies and is sometimes nearly or quite replaced by the widening of
the black border. This is a common phase in individuals grading to-
ward hypopyrrhus. Specimens from northern Vera Cruz, Queretaro,
San Luis Potosi, and Tamaulipas are paler or grayer than those from
farther south in central Vera Cruz.
On the east slope of the Cofre de Perote near Jico and Jalapa,
Vera Cruz, most of the squirrels are intergrades between aureogastcr
proper and frtt mentor. They are even richer ferruginous below than
true a?ireo£-aster^ but have the distinct nape and rump patches and
tendency to obsolescence of rufous median band on lower side of tail
oifrumentor. On account of the rufous underparts these specimens
are referred to atireogastcr rather than \.o frii?Jientor\ they combine
the characters of the two forms in about equal proportion but dif-
fer slightly from either. Squirrels from Lake Catemaco, Vera Cruz,
and about Guichicovi, Serabia, and Santo Domingo, Oaxaca, on the
Isthmus of Tehuantepec, show intergradation between true aureo-
gaster and hypopyrrhiis., and it is frequently puzzling to decide on
which side of the line to class them.
Melanism is common in this species; it is particularly prevalent in
some localities and at times entirely replaces the normal phase. A
melanistic specimen from Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, has the top of the
head and rest of upperparts dark rusty brown, thinly washed with
black, darkest over the shoulders ; tail black slightly washed with gray ;
entire underparts, including nose and sides of head to eyes, fore feet
and legs and hind feet black, and a thin collar of grizzled rusty brown
across the under side of neck. A specimen from Forlon in the same
state is similar but has a very much heavier wash of black on the back.
Very young squirrels show the characteristic color markings.
Measurements. — Average of 5 adults from Alta Mira : total length
509; tail 260; hind foot 66.6.
