SQUIRRELS OF IMEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 43
jacent parts of extreme southeastern Oaxaca, Tabasco, eastern Chia-
pas, and perhaps extreme northwestern Guatemala (below 4000 feet).
Characters. — This form is much darker than true 6". aureogaster\
the intense, almost chestnut rufous of underparts usually extends as a
broad band over the costal area and top of shoulders; the pelage is
thinner, with much stiffer and more shining dorsal hairs, and the tail
slenderer with black predominating. Teats: p. \ a. \ i. \.
Color. — Top of nose and fore part of crown d#rk iron gray; lum-
bar region, rump, outside of thighs and base of tail finely grizzled
with black, grayish white, and dull rusty or yellowish brown ; nape
patch indistinct, dull yellowish brown or dingy rufous, often grizzled
with black and gray ; ears like nape, grizzled gray or reddish brown,
sometimes bordered with black ; a thin basal patch of dingy grayish
white in winter; ring around eyes reddish or dark buffy brown,
confluent with area of same color extending back on sides of head
below ears; sides of nose, chin, and most of cheeks dingy gray; rest
of underparts deep, almost chestnut ferruginous, the same color
usually covering all of fore legs and extendmg up as a broad band
over costal area and shoulders ; fore and hind feet black, sometimes
minutely grizzled with gray ; tail above, black thinly washed with
white ; below, usually with a narrow median line of rich ferruginous,
heavily bordered with black and thinly edged with white, the median
rufous line frequently absent and replaced by black. Hairs on
back (except rufous area) black, with fine tips of white or some-
times narrow subterminal rings of yellowish brown.
Variation. — Black squirrels of this form are very common at
Minatitlan and in Tabasco. A curious specimen from Minatitlan is
uniformly black except on sides of nose, cheeks and chin which are
dark gray; flanks and hips thinly grizzled with yellowish gray; upper
surface of tail thinly grizzled with gray ; underparts, including inside
of legs, dark reddish brown. The nuchal patch is sometimes
confluent with the rufous area on shoulders, though usually lighter.
An immature specimen from the vicinity of Santo Domingo, Oaxaca,
is dingy reddish brown above, grizzled with black and gray. The
area covered by rufous on sides and across shoulders varies, and
the color also varies in intensity. The forelegs are sometimes grizzled
iron gray with or without mixture of reddish.
Measurements. — Average of 5 adults from Minatitlan : total
length, 522.8; tail vertebras, 266.8; hind foot, 67.3.
Cranial characters. — Premolars f . Skull similar to that of typi-
cal aureogaster but larger and proportionately narrower, with audital
