44 NELSON
bullfe larger and slightly constricted just in front of middle. Five
adult skulls from Minatitlan average: basal length, 52.6; palatal
length, 27.1; interorbital breadth 1S.4; zygomatic breadth, 34.8;
length of upper molar series 11.4.
General notes. — Although Wagler merely gave 'Mexico' as the
type locality for S. /lypopyrr/ius^ his description applies so w^ell to the
dark colored race of 6^. aureogaster of southern Vera Cruz that it
seems advisable to*tidopt his name for this form. Specimens from
Minatitlan, Vera Cruz, are typical.
An adult from Minatitlan (No. 780S2 9 ad., U. S. Nat. Mus.)
is even darker and more generally ferruginous than the Santo Domingo
specimen, and has a blackish area on fore shoulders and blackish rump
finely grizzled with dingy yellowish. After comparing this specimen
with the type of Macroxus matirus Gray, Mr. Thomas writes that it
is exactly like one of the two co-types. He also states that the British
Museum has a specimen from Teapa, Tabasco, similar to the type of
Macroxus morio Gray, but a little less melanistic, and that this speci-
men is the same as our No. 7S0S2 except for a little dash of melanism
across the shoulders, thus proving the identity of juaurtis and morio.
The name hypopyrrhus Wagler has been used indiscriminately by
various authors for the rufous bellied squirrels of Mexico, Central
America and even northern South America.
Habits. — The Fire-bellied Squirrels live in the humid tropical forest
where they range from sea level up to an altitude of about 4000 feet.
They levy a heavy toll upon cornfields planted in clearings in the
forest, and are also fond of cacao beans, gathering about the planta-
tions in large numbers, and are especially destructive in Tabasco and
eastern Chiapas. In order to gather a cacao crop the planters are
obliged to employ men with guns to patrol the plantations daily, but
in some districts, despite such efforts, the squirrels are a serious pest
and do great damage.
Specimens examifzed. — Eighteen : from Minatitlan and Catemaco,
Vera Cruz ; mountains near Santo Domingo and Guichicovi, Oaxaca ;
Uspanapa River, Tabasco ; Tumbala, Chiapas.
SCIURUS AUREOGASTER FRUMENTOR Nelson.
Perote Squirrel.
Sciurus aureogaster frumentor Nelson, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, pp.
154-155. June 3. 1898.
Type locality. — Las Vigas, Vera Cruz, Mexico. Type no. 54259
U. S. National Museum, Biological Survey Collection.
