SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 45
Distributio7i. — Mixed pine and oak forests of Upper Austral zone
on east and north base of the Cofre de Perote and adjacent eastern
slope of the Cordillera near Las Vigas, Vera Cruz (alt. 6000-Sooo ft. ) .
Characters. — Differs strikingly from typical aureogaster in having
well marked nuchal and rump patches of yellowish brown or rufous
brown; the underparts gray or gray washed with rufous; tail heavier
and more bushy; pelage softer. Teats : p. i a. |- i. \.
Color. — Nuchal and rump patches strongly marked, varying from
dark yellowish brown to dark rusty red, washed with black, extending
forward as a paler area along sides of head to enclose ears and eyes ;
rest of upperparts including nose and fore crown, fore feet, outside
of legs and sides of body, dark grizzled iron gray, usually with rusty
or pale rufous subterminal rings on hairs of back and sides ; hind feet
varying from black, slightly grizzled with gray, to dark iron gray ;
chin, throat and cheeks dingy gray ; rest of underparts varying from
pale gray to gray washed with rusty red ; tail at base like back, rest of
tail above black thinly washed with white ; below, with a median band
varying from pale rusty yellowish to dark ferruginous, bordered with
a black band and edged with white ; ears usually like nuchal patch but
sometimes grayish and sometimes with a black border ; basal patch
dingy white, present in winter, usually absent in summer. Hairs on
back black, with conspicuous white tips often mixed with others hav-
ing pale rufous subterminal rings.
Variation. — The series of this form and of aureogaster show per-
fect intergradation although the two extremes are strikingly different.
Some specimens taken below Las Vigas have the ferruginous of the
underparts somewhat grizzled with gray and more dingy than in
aureogaster. The black on the lower surface of the tail varies from
a narrow border to a broad band which reduces the median area to a
narrow line. Some specimens show 3 or 4 distinct black and rusty,
or reddish, annulations on lower surface of tail, giving a grizzled ap-
pearance which does not occur in either aureogaster proper or hypo-
■pyrrhus. No melanistic specimens seen.
Measure?7ie?tts. — Average of 5 adults from type locality: total
length 504.6; tail vertebrae 249.2; hind foot 68.8.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull indistinguishable from
that of typical aureogaster. Four adult skulls from the type locality
average: basal length 52.5 ; palatal length 26.1 ; interorbital breadth
19.7; zygomatic breadth 34.4; length of upper molar series 11.2.
General jzotes. — In several characters this subspecies agrees with
the description of S. nigrescens Bennett, but after comparing a speci-
