SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 49
back ; tail above black, heavily washed w^ith white ; below, with
broad median band varying from dingy grizzled yellowish gray to
pale rusty, a poorly defined black border and broader edging (and
sometimes wash over entire lower surface) white ; chin and throat
white; rest of underparts usually white, sometimes varying to pale
buffy or rusty buff. Hairs on back black with white tips and yellow-
ish basal rings, mixed with others having subterminal and basal rings
of dull yellowish, and still others with black subterminal, and yellow-
ish median rings.
Variation. — The yellowish ringed hairs on the back vary somewhat
in number but are not sufficiently numerous to appreciably effect the
general color. A faint yellowish indication of the rump patch is some-
times present, but always indistinct. No melanistic specimens seen.
Specimens from the arid Lower Sonoran and upper edge of the Arid
Tropical zones in northwestern Oaxaca, southwestern Puebla, and ad-
jacent part of Guerrero are closely related to hernandezi^ but are
slenderer with backs whiter, nape and rump patches more distinctly
yellowish brown; underparts usually buffy but sometimes white, and
median area on underside of tail bright rusty ferruginous. The char-
acters presented by these squirrels are almost worthy of subspecific
recognition, but the material at hand is too limited to satisfactorily de-
termine their value.
Measurements. — Average of five adults from type locality : total
length 539.6; tail vertebrae 26S.8; hind foot 6'S>.'i.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skulls average a little smaller
(with longer upper molar series) but are not otherwise distinguishable
from those of S. poliopus. Five from type locality average : basal
length 51.5; palatal length 26.5; interorbital breadth 19.5; zygomatic
breadth 34.6; length of molar series 11.
Ge7ieral ftotes. — The name first proposed for this squirrel being
preoccupied, the subspecies was renamed in honor of Francisco Her-
nandez, the author of the Historiae Animalium NoviE HispaniiE.
Habits. — These squirrels feed upon acorns and pine nuts, and at
the time of our visit to the type locality, in September, were found in
the huge oak trees growing along certain slopes and ridges in the pine
forest at an altitude of Sooo-9000 feet. They were shy, and instead
of concealing themselves at our approach, usually made off through
the tree tops.
Specimens examined. — Twenty-one : from mountains west of Val-
ley of Oaxaca, southwestern Puebla and southeastern Guerrero.
