50 NELSON
SCIURUS POLIOPUS NEMORALIS Nelson.
Michoacan Squirrel.
Sciurus alblpcs ne)noralls Nelson, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, p. 151,
June 3, 1898.
Sciurus ivagneri neino7'alis Xix,^'^, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y., x, p.
454, Nov., 1898.
Type locality. — Patzcuaro, Michoacan, Mexico. Type no. f ffff?
U. S. National Museum, Biological Survey Collection.
Dlstributio7i. — Pine and oak forests of Transition and Boreal
zones, from the Volcano of Toluca, State of Mexico, to Nahuatzin,
Michoacan, Mexico (alt. 7000-12,000 feet).
Characters. — Similar to S. hernandezi in having feet and under-
parts white, but back, including nape and rump patches, decidedly
darker. Pelage full and soft; tail large and bushy. Teats: p- x ^* f
Color. — Top of nose and fore crown dark iron gray washed with
shining black ; nape patch usually varying from dingy yellowish brown
to dark rusty, almost chestnut brown, washed and grizzled with black \
rump patch usually paler; rest of upperparts, including outside of
legs, iron gray with slight intermixture of rusty ; feet usually white ;
ears dark gray or grizzled gray and yellowish brown, with distinct white
basal patches; sides of head whitish gray; ring around eye whitish;
sides of head from nape patch to eyes sometimes yellowish brown ;
underparts usually white, rarely buffy yellow; tail above black, with
heavy wash of white ; below, with broad median area grizzled gray,
yellowish gray or yellowish brown, with poorly defined black border
and white edge, the white sometimes extending as a wash over entire
lower surface. Hairs of back black, with subterminal and sub-basal
rings of dark buffy or yellowish, or with white tips and basal, or sub-
terminal, buffy rings.
Variation. — The nape and rump patches vary from dingy yellowish
to dark buffy or dingy chestnut, washed more or less heavily with
black ; nape usually darker than rump. A melanistic phase occurs at
Patzcuaro and becomes more common to the southeast until on the
Volcano of Toluca it entirely replaces the gray phase. Only two out
of nine melanistic specimens from Toluca are grizzled with dingy
yellowish gray, the others being uniformly black. Some of the six
melanistic specimens from Patzcuaro are sparsely and others abun-
dantly grizzled with gray or dingy fulvous, and the tail is strongly
edged with white. In the latter specimens the under surface is usually
smoky black, and one has albinistic patches in the axillae and on the
