52 NELSON
parts, including outside of legs, dark iron gray (rarely intermixed
with yellowish ringed hairs) ; feet similar but paler; ears dark grayish
or yellowish brown with distinct white basal patch; sides of head
dingy grayish ; ring around eye whitish ; area between eye and ear
often suffused with brownish ; underparts white, sometimes slightly
grizzled with black; tail at base like rump; rest of tail, above black
heavily washed with white ; below, a broad median line of grizzled
dark iron gray bordered with black and edged with white, the white
often forming a thin wash over under surface. Hairs of back usually
black with white tips, but occasionally intermixed with others having
a median ring of buffy.
Variation . — Specimens from the type locality show comparatively
little variation. The upperparts are sometimes paler or darker than
in typical specimens and the wash of black on crown and rump is
sometimes heavy enough to obscure the yellow patches. The feet
vary from iron gray to whitish gray but are never white. Black al-
ways predominates on lower side of tail but the amount of gray varies.
Compared with typical specimens those from Ameca are paler on the
back and lower surface of tail, and the nape and rump patches are
more obsolescent.
Measurements. — Average of five adults from type locality : total
length 536; tail vertebras 267.2; hind foot 66.4.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull indistinguishable from
that of S. poliopus. Five adult skulls from near type locality aver-
age : basal length 51.2; palatal length 27.6; interorbital breadth
19.8; zygomatic breadth 34.9; length of upper molar series 11.7.
Habits. — These handsome squirrels have a wide vertical range
In April they were found at an altitude of 4000 feet feeding on wild
figs in the canyon near Plantinar, at the east base of the Sierra Nevada
de Colima. On the north slope of the same mountain they were com-
mon and feeding on acorns among scrubby oaks at 6000 feet, and we
saw many gnawed pine cones at 12,000 feet. Dr. Buller who col-
lected the type took a specimen at the latter altitude on this mountain.
Specimens examined. — Twenty-four : from Plantinar, Hacienda
San Marcos and elsewhere on slopes of Sierra Nevada de Colima,
and at Ameca, State of Jalisco.
SCIURUS POLIOPUS COLIMENSIS Nelson. Colima Squirrel.
Sciurus leiicops Allen, Mon. N. Am. Rodentia, pp. 753-754, 1877 (part:
specimens from Rio Coahuyana, Colima, Mexico).
Sciurus albipes colimcnsisV^-EXSO^, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, p. 152,
June 3, 1898.
Sciurus wagneri colimcnsis Allen, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y., x, p.
454, Nov., 1898
