sql:irrels of Mexico and central America 53
Type locality. — Hacienda Magdalena, Colima, Mexico, Type no.
|4-i-|^J. U. S. National Museum, Biological Survey Collection.
Distribution. — Arid tropical coast region in State of Colima,
western ISIexico (below 2000 ft.).
Characters. — Pelage thinner and tail more slender than in other
subspecies of 6". poliopus ; nape and rump patches well marked, rusty
or yellowish brown ; back gray mixed with considerable rusty; feet
dark iron gray or blackish. Teats : p. i a. -| i. \.
Color. — Nape and rump patches distinct, varying from yellowish
brown to dark rusty shaded with black ; nose and forecrown grizzled
iron gray, sometimes suffused with yellowish brown extending forward
from nape patch ; rest of back rather pale grizzled gr^iy, abundantly
intermixed with rusty ringed hairs ; outside of legs iron gray ; fore feet
dark iron gray ; hind feet darker iron gray varying to black and thinly
grizzled with gray ; sides of head dingy grizzled gray, sometimes suf-
fused with yellowish brown ; ring around eye dingy white or dull buff ;
ears like nape, with small basal patch of dull whitish or dingy rusty;
underparts white; tail at base like back; rest of tail above black
thinly washed with -white; below, with broad median area dark
grizzled iron gray (sometimes faintly washed with yellowish) bor-
dered by black and thinly edged with white. Hairs of back black with
white tips and basal, sub-basal or subterminal rings of buffy or rusty.
Variation. — The upperparts vary from pale gray to iron gray ; the
feet are usually darker than the back, but sometimes paler. An imma-
ture specimen from the type locality is pale gray with the rusty rump
patch nearly obsolete. A female taken in February at Armeria has the
inside of fore limbs, thighs, and sides of belly washed with buffy, and
median area on under side of tail dark grizzled fulvous. The black
border on lower surface of tail varies from a narrow line to a band
half an inch wide.
JSTeasurcinents. — Average of five adults from type locality : total
length 526; tail vertebrae 267; hind foot 67.6.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull somewhat smaller but
not otherwise separable from that of typical .5". poliopus. Five adult
skulls from near type locality average : basal length 502 ; palatal
length 26.7; interorbital breadth 19. i ; zygomatic breadth 33.8 ; length
of molar series 11.2.
General notes. — Sciurtis p. colimensis is most closely related to
S. p. cervicalis^ but typical specimens are readily distinguished by
paler backs and strongly marked reddish or fulvous nape and rump
patches. The feet are darker than in any of the other subspecies of
