54 NELSON
poliopus and, with the exception of S. p. effiigius^ the nape and rump
patches are more strongly contrasted with the rest of the back.
Specimens examined. — Ten : from Hacienda Magdalena, Armeria,
and Rio Coahuyana, Colima.
SCIURUS POLIOPUS EFFUGIUS Nelson. Guerrero Squirrel.
Sciiirns albipcs effugius'^^x.'iO'S, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, pp. 152-
153, June 3, 1898.
Sciiirus wagneri cffugius Allen, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y. , x, p.
454, Nov. 10, 1898.
Type locality. — High mountains west of Chilpancingo, Guerrero,
Mexico. Type no. 70288 U. S. National Museum, Biological Siu'-
vey Collection.
Distribution — Pine and oak forests of Transition and Boreal zones
along summit of Cordillera in southwestern Guerrero (alt. 7500—
9500 ft.).
Characters. — Back grizzled gray ; nape patch conspicuous, dark
rufous ; ear patches large, white and more conspicuous than in any
other form of the species ; underparts darker rufous than in poliopus ;
median area on underside of tail deeper, richer rufous. Pelage thick
and soft; tail large and bushy. Teats : p. \ a. | i. \.
Color. — Winter pelage : Nape patch rusty rufous, becoming almost
rusty chestnut in some specimens ; top of nose iron gray intermixed
with yellow ringed hairs; rest of dorsal surface finely grizzled iron
gray intermixed with rusty ringed hairs ; indications of a rump patch
similar in color to nape sometimes present but heavily overlaid with
grizzling of white and black ; extension of nape patch over sides of
head, including bases of ears and eyes, slightly paler than main area ;
ring around eye buffy or whitish ; ears reddish brown like crown, but
sometimes grizzled with grayish ; basal ear patches very large and
brilliantly white ; outside of legs gray, usually with less mixture of rusty
than on back; feet white, often washed with pale rufous; tail at base
like rump; rest of tail above black, heavily washed with white (with
rufous under color showing through) ; below, with broad median area
nearly pure rich dark rufous, narrow black border, and thin white
edge ; chin and throat white ; rest of underparts rich dark rufous. Hairs
on back black, with short white tips and either basal, sub-basal, or
median rings of rufous.
Variation. — One topotype has the nape patch extending over
shoulders and costal region, rest of back strongly suffused with rusty,
and a wash of same color on outside of fore legs and feet ; another.
