SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 55
probably representing a much worn phase of the summer pelage, has
very distinct well defined nape and rump patches of rusty brown ; top
of nose and back, including outside of legs and feet, pale iron gray
with very indistinct rusty rings on intermixed hairs; chin and throat
white; underparts pale dull rusty washed with dingy white.
Measurements. — Average of five adults from type locality : total
length 496.8; tail vertebrae 249; hind foot 6'^.
Cranial characters. — Premolai-s |. Skulls average a little smaller
but are otherwise like those of S. poliopus. Four adults skulls from
the type locality average : basal length 50.9; palatal length 26.9; in-
terorbital breadth 19. i; zygomatic breadth 34.5; length of upper
molar series 1 1.
Habits. — In December we found these squirrels feeding on acorns
of the large oaks among the pines on top of the Cordillera, but the
abundance of gnawed cones scattered on the ground showed that at other
seasons pines furnish their chief food supply. They were extraordi-
narily shy and cunning, and it was very difficult to secure specimens.
Specimens examined. — Eight: all from the type locality.
SCIURUS NELSONI Merriam. Nelson's Squirrel.
Sciurus ne/sont Merrisim, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, viii, p. 144, Dec. 1893.
Type locality. — Huitzilac, Morelos, Mexico. Type no. 5 1157 U. S.
National Museum, Biological Survey Collection.
Distribution. — Oak and pine forests of Transition and Boreal zones
in mountains on south and west sides of Valley of Mexico, and south
side of Valley of Toluca, in the Federal District and States of Mexico
and Morelos (alt. Sooo-i 2,000 ft.).
Characters. — Body large and heavy ; back grizzled, sooty blackish
brown ; feet black ; underparts grizzled blackish, sometimes washed
lightly with dingy yellowish brown or rusty rufous. Pelage very thick
and soft; under fur long; tail extremely broad and bushy. Teats: p.
i a. -^ i. i
Color. — Upperparts sooty blackish usually washed or grizzled with
dull yellowish brown; head usually darker than back and sometimes
entirely black, shading gradually into color of back on nape ; ears, feet,
and sometimes outside of fore legs and lower thighs black; sides of
head (when not black) grizzled blackish gray varying to dark yellow-
ish brown; lower cheeks and chin grhyer ; underparts grizzled and
varying from dingy blackish brown, thinly washed with dull yellowish,
to dark brown washed with dull rusty; tail at base all around like
rump, rest of tail above black, washed with gravish white; below
