56 NELSON
nearly uniform blackish with yellowish gray or brown showing through
and thin edging of dingy white, but sometimes wnth median area very
dark grizzledyellowish gray or yellowish brown, washed with black and
narrowly edged with dingy white. Hairs on entire back black with
narrow subterminal and broader basal or sub-basal rings of smoky buff
or brown.
Variation. — No melanistic specimens have been seen from the type
locality, but two individuals from Tenango del Valle in the Bangs
collection are nearly uniform black, having only a thin grizzling of
dingy gray along the sides, and one has a pale wash of reddish brown
on breast and belly. Another specimen in the same collection from
Tenango differs in having a nuchal patch of dark grizzled reddish
brown, contrasting with rest of back; feet pale buffy brown, toes
dingy whitish; rest of back normal, but entire underparts dull
rufous, becoming darker posteriorly. One specimen from Ajusco also
has the underparts similarly colored.
Measurements. — Average of five adults from type locality : total
length, 521.6; tail vertebrae, 262.6; hind foot, 67.6.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull like that of S. atireo-
gaster. Five adult skulls from the type locality measure : basal
length 50.7; palatal length 26.7; interorbital breadth 19.4: zygomatic
breadth 34.9; length of upper molar series 11.9.
GeJteral notes. — Sciurns nelsoni is one of the most distinct of the
Mexican squirrels and has a very limited distribution. It has a single
subspecies which lives on the slopes of Mts. Popocatepetl and Iztac-
cihuatl, and serves as a good illustration of the remarkable readiness
with which the squirrels of tropical North America vary with climatic
conditions. The area inhabited by S. nelsoni and S. nelsoni hirtus
are in the same life zone and not more than 75 miles apart. S. nelsoni
is much the darker of the two and its coloration is correlated with the
somewhat greater rainfall of the area it inhabits.
Specimens examined. — Eighteen : from Huitzilac, Morelos ; Salazar
and Ajusco, Federal District ; and Tenango del Valle, State of Mexico,
Mexico.
SCIURUS NELSONI HIRTUS Nelson.
Mount Popocatepetl Squirrel.
Sciuriis nelsoni hirtus Nelson, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, pp. 153-
154, June 3, 1898.
7ype locality. — Tochimilco, Puebla, Mexico. Type no. 55325
U. S. National Museum, Biological Survey Collection.
