8o NELSON
Macroxus collicei Gray, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist., 3d ser., xx, pp. 421-422,
1867 (part : var. i).
Sciiirus hypopyrrhiis Allen, Mon. N. Am. Rodentia, pp. 746-750, 1877
(part: No. 7019 from La Union, Salvador); Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey-
Terr., IV, pp. 881-882, 1878 (part); Alston, Proc. Zool. Soc. London,
1878, pp. 662-664 (part) ; Biol. Cent. -Am., Mamm., pp. 128-131, 1880
(part).
Type locality. — Salvador, Central America. Type in British Mu
seum.
Distribiitio7i. — Tropical forests of Salvador, west coast of Central
America.
Characters. — Entire upperparts and base of tail dingy yellowish
gray; underparts and feet dull buffy ochraceous. Tail rather slender;
pelage thin; hairs of back coarse, stiff and shining; under fur short
and thin.
Color. — Entire upperparts, including top of head, outside of legs
near body, and base of tail all round, nearly uniform dull grizzled
buffy gray ; backs of ears pale rusty with basal patches of dull buff, and
narrow indistinct borders of black ; feet, and outside of legs on lower
half, dark ochraceous buff; paler or grayer buffy on chin, sides of nose
and cheeks ; underparts dark dingy buff ; tail above, black washed with
white ; below, with broad median area like back, bordered by line of
black and edged with grayish white. Hairs on back black, with broad
median rings of pale yellowish gray; under fur dark sooty plumbeous.
Measurements. — Dry skin from La Union, Salvador, No. 7020
adult, U. S. Nat. Museum: total length 545; tail vertebrae 280; hind
foot dd.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull similar to that of S.
thomasi, but proportionately narrower and slenderer with much lighter
jugals and smaller audital bullag. It measures: basal length 49; pal-
atal length 26 ; interorbital breadth 20 : zygomatic breadth 34 ; length
of upper molar series 1 1 .
General tiotes. — The specimen described above was compared with
Ogilby's type in the British Museum by Mr. Thomas, who pronounces
the two identical, and adds that the type of S. griseocaudatus Gray
differs from them only in having the color of the belly a little richer.
Ogilby described this species from a specimen taken during the voyage
of the ' Sulphur,' and later Gray described 6". griseocaudatus from
another specimen collected during the same voyage. By an error,
Ogilby stated that his specimen came from the west coast of South
America, but Gray gave the locality of his type more correctly as the
west coast of Central America. Lesson's 6". pyladeiivom. San Carlos,
