SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 8 1
Salvador, as shown by the original description, was typical 5*. varie-
gatoides\ this, w^ith the specimen in the U. S. National Museum,
definitely determines the region where the species is found.
Specimen examined. — One : from La Union, Salvador.
SCIURUS MANAGUENSIS Nelson. Rio Managua Squirrel.
Scturus boothicE managuensis Nelson, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, p.
150, June 3, 1898.
Type locality. — Managua River, Guatemala. Type no. 62476 U. S.
National Museum.
Distribution. — Humid tropical forests along Managua River, north-
ern Guatemala.
Characters. — Size of S. boothioe but yellower on dorsal surface
and uniformly light buffy yellow below. Pelage rather dense ; hairs
of back coarse, stiff and shining; tail long and narrow. Teats p. \
Colors. — Upperparts, including top of nose and base of tail coarsely
grizzled dull yellowish or grayish brown; crown and middle of back
washed with shining black; sides of body and outside of legs more
suffused with yellowish ; feet of type bright buffy yellow only slightly
grizzled (much more grizzled in two other specimens) ; ears edged
with black and tipped with thin tuft of rusty hairs ; basal patches con-
spicuous dull buffy yellow ; sides of head and chin dingy yellowish or
grayish brown ; underparts, varying from rich, almost reddish buffy
to dingy yellow; tail above black, thinly washed with white; below,
with broad median area varying from grizzled grayish brown shaded
with yellowish, to yellowish brown, bordered with black and edged
with white. Hairs on back black, with broad median rings of dull
yellowish buffy, or sometimes grayish.
Variation. — Two of the three specimens examined. Including the
type, are distinctly suffused with yellowish on back and bright yellow
below ; the third specimen is pale brownish gray above and much
paler, dingier yellow below, but has the lower surface of tail slightly
shaded with rusty and the feet and back with only a slight suffusion of
yellowish.
Measurements . — Average of 3 adults from type locality (from dried
skins) : total length 537, tail vertebrae 370; hind foot 63.7.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull very similar to that of
S. aureogaster but somewhat narrower ; inner anterior border of audi-
tal bulla) more indented, as in S. booth ict. Two adult skulls from
the type locality average : basal length 50.3; palatal length 37 ; in-
