82
NELSON
terorbital breadth 19; zygomatic breadth 33.9; length of upper molar
series 11.5.
General notes. — This squirrel was originally described as a sub-
species of S. boothicE and is closely related to that species, but further
study of the material at hand shows such strong differences that it
seems best to regard the animals as distinct. The difference in size,
more vivid yellow shade, and heavier wash of black on dorsal surface
are sufficient to distinguish S. managtiensis from S. variegatoides.,
which resembles it but is a larger, duller colored species.
Specimens examined. — Three : all from the type locality.
SCIURUS GOLDMANI Nelson. Goldman's Squirrel.
Schirus go/dtnani Nelson, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, pp. 149-150,
June 3, 1898.
Type locality. — Huehuetan, Chiapas, Mexico. Type no. 77903
U. S. National Museum, Biological Survey Collection.
Distributiott. — Arid tropical forests along southeastern coast of
Chiapas, Mexico, and adjacent part of Guatemala (below 1500 ft.).
Characters. — Entire upperparts coarsely grizzled iron gray with
an underlying yellowish or buffy shade ; ear patches white and unusu-
ally conspicuous (in winter) ; ear tufts thin, rusty ferruginous; under-
parts, white. Pelage on dorsal surface thin ; hairs coarse, stiff and
shining; tail long and narrow. Teats: p. i a. | i. i.
Color. — Winter pelage : Nose and crown dark iron gray usually
suffused with yellowish or buffy and washed with shiny black; rest of
upperparts rather paler, more yellowish iron gray (paler on nape and
sides) , darker and more washed with shining black along middle of
back and rump ; fore feet paler, shading through darker gray on out-
side of legs to yellowish gray of shoulders ; outside of thighs like flanks ;
hind feet grizzled iron gray, toes grayish white ; ears, anteriorly dingy
grayish with a distinct black border all around, posteriorly the upper
half covered by a thin rusty ferruginous tuft and lower half by the
large white basal patch ; ring around eye narrow, dull buffy brown ;
sides of nose and cheeks dingy gray or grayish brown ; entire under-
parts white ; tail above black, thinly washed with white ; below, me-
dian area 'dull grizzled iron gray, varying to grizzled yellowish or
rusty, with a narrow black border, broad subterminal area of black,
and narrower edge of white. Hairs on back black with broad median
rings of pale yellowish gray (sometimes buffy).
Variation. — The main variation is in the color of the back which
may be gray with a pale yellowish suffusion, or a deep, slightly rusty,
buff grizzled with black.
