SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 83
Measurements. — Average of five adults from type locality : total
length, 550.8; tail vertebrae 280.8; hind foot 66.2.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull closely resembling that
of typical S. aureogaster but differing in slightly heavier rostrum,
larger and longer audital bullte, and in having the peg-like first premolar
set well inside the anterior angle of the second premolar. Five adult
skulls from the type locality average : basal length 51.2; palatal length
26.9; interorbital breadth 19.8; zygomatic breadth 33.9; length of
upper molar series 11.3.
General notes. — Sciurus goldmani bears a superficial resemblance
to S. collicei nuchalls but may be readily distinguished by the black
bordered ears, w^ith large w^hite basal patches, and the uniform color
of thighs and back. The hairs on the back are coarser and stiffer.
Speci?nens examined. — Ten : from Huehuetan, Chiapas ; and
Guatemala.
HESPEROSCIURUS subgen. nov. (p1. I, fig. 5 ; p1. II, fig. 4).
SCIURUS GRISEUS Ord. California Gray Squirrel.
Sciurus griseiis Ord., Journ. de Phys., lxxxvii, p. 152, 1818.
Sciurus fossor V'E.M.K, Mamm. and Birds U. S. Expl. Expedition, p. 55, 1848.
Sciurus heermanni LeConte, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. , p. 149, 1852
(type locality California).
Sciurus fossor anthofiyi M^XKKS, Proc. U. S. Nat. Museum, xx, pp. 501-502,
Jan. 19, 1898 (type from Campbell Ranch, Laguna, San Diego Co.,
California).
Type locality. — The Dalles, Columbia River, Oregon. No type
specimen. Named from description.
Distributio7i. — Pine and oak forests of Transition (and upper
border of Austral) zone from extreme southwestern Washington
through western Oregon and most of California (except coast belt
south of San Francisco) to northern Lower California, Mexico.
Characters. — Size large ; tail long and bushy; upperparts gray;
underparts white. Pelage full and soft ; under fur long and thick ;
ears thinly haired. Teats : p. 1 a. f i. \.
Color. — Typical June specimens from Oregon: Upperparts, in-
cluding top of nose and base of tail, pale gray sometimes with slight
traces of yellowish on back ; outside of legs similar, but fore legs
sometimes a little paler; fore feet varying from dingy grayish white
to gray scarcely paler than back ; hind feet gray, varying from a little
paler than back to grizzled blackish gray, occasionally with white
markings on hind feet and toes ; ears gray, sometimes suffused with
