84 NELSON
dingy yellowish brown; basal patches small, dingy gray or yellowish
gray ; sides of head finely grizzled gray, more whitish than back ;
ring around eye white, poorly defined ; underparts white ; tail above
black with a thin wash of white ; below, with broad median area dark
grizzled gray, a rather poorly defined black border, and thin white edge.
Hairs on back mostly black, with from one to three rings of white or
yellowish, intermixed with others entii'ely black.
Variatioti. — The large series examined shows but little individual
variation. Winter specimens from northern California are somewhat
darker, more iron gray above, with much less black on upper
surface of tail so that the imderlying gray shows through ; the ears are
more hairy and inclining to rusty on backs and basal patches.
Measurements. — Average of five specimens from the Columbia
River region — near type locality of S. griseus : total length 569 ;
tail vertebrae 270.6; hind foot 81.8. Average of five adults from San
Diego Co., California — topotypes of '■ antkonyi' : total length 566;
tail vertebras 284; hind foot 80.
Cranial characters. — Premolars ^. Skull (pi. I, fig. 5 ; pi. II,
fig. 4) rather long, tapering anteriorly; nasals long, narrowed
posteriorly; posterior part of the braincase inflated; audital bullae
small ; postorbital process of malar usually ending in a well developed
point. Molars unusually massive and the peg-like second premolar
stouter than usual. Skulls from the type locality of ^. griseus
'• antkonyi' ?L-vtra^e. a little smaller than those from the Columbia
River region, but the range of individual variation from the two
localities is such that it is impossible to find any definite subspecific
characters. Five adult skulls from near the type locality in the Colum-
bia River region average : basal length 58.3 ; palatal length 32.1; inter-
orbital breadth 20.8; zygomatic breadth 38.7; length of upper molar
series 12.9. Five adult skulls from type locality of S. griseus
antkonyi average: basal length 56.3; palatal length 30.2; inter-
orbital breadth 20.9; zygomatic breadth 37.7; length of upper molar
series 11.7.
General notes. — Ord's S. griseus is based on the ' Large Gray
Squirrel' of Lewis and Clark, which is said to have been found in a
narrow tract of country well covered with white oak timber on the
upper side of the mountains just below ' Columbia Falls.' From
Lewis and Clark's narrative and the well known character of the coun-
try it is evident that the place referred to is near The Dalles of the
Columbia, which fixes the type locality with some certainty.
A careful comparison of the type and topotypes of ' S. fossor an
