SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 85
thonyi'' in the National Museum, with a large series of typical S. gri-
setis from Oregon and Washington, fails to show any character by
which they can be satisfactorily separated. The type and some of the
topotypes of anthonyi can be matched by specimens taken at the same
season in Oregon ; I am obliged therefore to treat anthonyi as synonym
of S. griseus. Some specimens from the type region of '• antJionyi^
have the feet intermediate in color \)Q.\.\sqg\\ grisejis and nigripes}
Specimens examined. — Fifty-two : from many localities in Wash-
ington, Oregon, and California.
OTOSCIURUS subgen. nov. (pL I, fig. 2).
SCIURUS DURANGI (Thomas). Durango Squirrel.
Scinrus aberti Thomas, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1882, p, 372 ; Allen,
Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., v, p. 28, April, 1893. (Not .S". abcrti\^oo^-
house, 1852.)
Sciurtts aberti dtirangi Thomas, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist., 6th ser., xi, pp.
49-50, Jan., 1893.
Type locality. — Ciudad ranch (100 miles west of Durango City,
Durango, Mexico. Type no. 82. 3. 20. 16., British Museum.
Distribution. — Pine forests of Transition and lower border of
Boreal zones in Sierra Madre, western Durango and Chihuahua,
Mexico (alt. 7000-11,000 feet).
Characters. — Similar to S. aberti., but mvich less reddish chestnut
on back ; sides of nose to eyes usually reddish buffy, feet more or less
grizzled gray ; tail much less full, and its lower surface uniformly
grizzled gray; ears smaller and narrower; ear tufts in winter long (ab-
sent in summer). Pelage soft and full; under furlong. Teats: p. \
a. ^ 1. y.
Color. — Summer pelage : Upperparts, including top of nose and
base of tail, dingy gray, with dark rufous or reddish chestnut along
back from shoulders to rump, but not reaching base of tail as in S.
aberti \ outside of forelegs rather paler than back; fore feet white or
pale gray ; outside of hind legs like flanks ; hind feet uniform
grizzled gray like outside of thighs, or gray mottled irregularly with
areas of white and sometimes dingy rusty ; a poorly defined black line
along flanks separating color of upper and lower parts ; sides of nose
(to eyes) sometimes dingy gray suffused with brownish but usually
reddish brown ; same color shading fore part and sometimes all of
'S. fossor nigripes Bryant, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 2d ser., II, pp. 25-26,
1889. [Type from coast region south of San Francisco, probably San Mateo or
Santa Cruz Co., Calif.]
