86 NELSON
white ring around eye ; rest of sides of head finely grizzled gray,
I^aler than back ; ears dingy gray and thinly haired, sometimes
with traces of grizzled gray and black winter tufts ; underpai'ts white ;
tail at base all around like rump ; rest of tail above black, heavily
washed with white ; below uniformly grizzled gray, with narrow indis-
tinct black border, a well marked subterminal black area, and broad
white edging. Hairs on back black with two to three rings of grayish
white, the rings often becoming rufous on middle of back.
Variation. — In some specimens the upperparts are nearly uniform
dingy gray, the chestnut dorsal area being indicated merely by a rusty
suffusion along the lumbar region. In those with a distinct chestnut
dorsal area, numerous rufous ringed hairs are scattered over the back
and flanks, giving the gray a slight brownish tinge. The color of the
hind feet is very variable and is scarcely alike in any two specimens,
but is never pure white as in aberti. One of the most striking and
constant characters of this species is the entire absence of white on
the underside of the tail.
Measurements. — Average of five adults from vicinity of type lo-
cality : total length 4S6.4; tail vertebrae 335.4; hind foot 71.2. Five
adult topotypes of S. aderti average: total length 510 ; tail vertebrae
229.8; hind foot 75.6.
Crariial characters. — Premolars y* Skull (pi. I, fig. 2) generally
similar to that of 6". aberti but somewhat smaller, with notably
smaller molars, and shorter and more slender first premolar ; audita!
bullae relatively larger ; braincase a little less drawn out posteriorly.
Five adult skulls from vicinity of type locality average as follows:
basal length 50.1 ; palatal length 27.3; interorbital breadth 19.8 zy-
gomatic breadth 34.5; length of upper molar series 10. 8. Five adult
skulls of 6^. aberti from type locality average : basal length 52; pa-
latal length 27.8; interorbital breadth 19.8; zygomatic breadth 35.1 ;
length of upper molar series 11.2.
General notes. — The characters which separate this squirrel from
S. aberti are so constant in the series before me that it seems best to
consider it a distinct species. Each species has a well defined range,
there being a broad gap in northern Chihuahua and southern Arizona
in which neither occurs.
Specimens examined. — Thirty-two: from El Salto (near Ciudad
ranch), Durango; vSierra Madre and near Guadalupe y Calvo, Chi-
huahua (in southwestern corner of State).
