SQUIRRELS OF IMEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 89
nary examples with black backs, and is equally intense in specimens
from Encarnacion, Hidalgo, which have the well-marked black dorsal
band. Two specimens from Villar, San Luis Potosi, in worn summer
pelage, differ in being uniform gray on back, scarcely darker along
median line, but they agree with the Pinal de Amoles specimens in
the rich, buffy underparts. The buff on feet accompanies and varies
in intensity with same color on underparts. The only melanistic
specimen in the series is from Pinal de Amoles, Qiieretaro.
Measziremettts. — Average of five adults from type locality: total
length 542. S; tail vertebrae 269; hind foot 72.7.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull (pi. I, fig. 3) propor-
tionately broader and heavier than that of ludovicianiis ; rostrum shorter
and heavier ; interorbital breadth greater ; top of braincase broader and
less convex on interparietal outline ; occiput decidedly broader and
more depressed ; audital bulla aj^preciably larger and more drawn out
anteriorly and posteriorly. Three adult skulls from the type locality
average as follows : basilar length 54.6; palatal length 28.5 ; interor-
bital breadth 20.3 ; zygomatic breadth 36.3 ; length of upper molar
series 1 1.
General notes. — Peters described Sciurus oculattis in 1864 from a
specimen collected by Deppe in eastern Mexico. Thomas redescribed
the species in 1890 as S. niger melanonotzis, from specimens taken at
Las Vigas, Vera Cruz. Specimens from Las Vigas agree perfectly
with the original description of S. oculatus., and since this locality is on
the route followed by Deppe it may be considered the type locality.
Habits. — This species properly belongs to the pine forests of the
Transition and Boreal zones from 7500-12,000 feet, but at Villar, San
Luis Potosi, near the northern border of its range, we found it in the
oaks of the Upper and Lower Austral zones (5500-6000 feet) where
it was feeding on acorns and wild figs in the canyon bottoms. Ordi-
narily its main food supply is obtained from various species of pines.
Specimens examined. — Forty-six : from Mt. Orizaba, Puebla ; Cofre
de Perote and Las Vigas, Vera Cruz ; Real del Monte, Tulancingo
and Encarnacion, Hidalgo ; Pinal de Amoles, Qiieretaro ; Villar, San
Luis Potosi (6000 feet).
SCIURUS OCULATUS TOLUC^ Nelson. Toluca Squirrel.
Sciurus ocjdaius iolucce Nelson, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, pp. 148-
149, June 3, 1898.
Type locality. — North slope of the Volcano of Toluca, State of
Mexico, Mexico. Type no. 55927 U. S. National Museum, Bio-
logical Survey collection.
