90
NELSON
Distribution. — Pine and oak forests of Transition and Boreal zones
on tableland slope of the Sierra Madre in the State of Mexico, from
the Volcano of Toluca north to border of Michoacan ; also arid moun-
tains of southern and western Qiieretaro, central and eastern Guana-
juato, and southern San Luis Potosi, Mexico (alt. 7500-13,000 feet).
Characters. — Paler than S. oculatzis, with a wash of blackish, or
blackish brown along middle of back ; underparts dingy whitish, with
only a faint suffusion of buffy. Pelage and teats as in S. oculatus.
Color. — Top of head and broad median line down back to base of
tail, gray with a faint blackish or dull brownish wash shading laterally
into clearer grizzled gray ; latter color, however, with slight shading of
yellowish on subterminal rings of some hairs ; ring around eye grayish
white with pale buffy shade ; rest of sides of head dingy gray suffused
with dull buffy or pale bi-ownish ; ears dull gray shaded with buffy ;
patch behind ear dingy whitish ; feet grayish white with buffy wash,
usually deeper than on undei-parts ; outside of fore legs and thighs like
flanks; thighs near feet suffused with yellowish brown; tail above
black, heavily washed with white ; below, along median line grizzled
yellowish gray or pale yellowish brown, bordered with black and
broadly edged with white. Hairs of back black with one or two rings
of gray, yellowish or brownish gray, mixed with other hairs wholly
black.
Variation, — A single melanistic specimen from the type locality is
the only one seen. The four normal specimens show little variation,
and this mainly in the amount of buffy on the feet and in the intensity
of the dark wash along middle of back.
Measurements. — Average of four adults from type locality : total
length 531 ; tail vertebrae 263 ; hind foot 6S.7.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull much like that of S.
oc7clat7is^ but in nearly all of the specimens examined the nasals are
much narrower posteriorly with a corresponding increase in breadth of
the premaxillaries. Two adult skulls from type locality average as
follows : basilar length 54 ; palatal length 39 ; interorbital breadth 30.5 ;
zygomatic breadth 36.7; length of upper molar series 11.
Ge?teral notes. — This form resembles specimens of S. oculatus
from Pinal de Amoles very closely in the color of the back, but may
be distinguished at once by the whitish ear patches and whitish ven-
tral surface. It was named for the Volcano of Toluca, the type
locality.
Specimens exa?nined. — Seven: from Volcano of Toluca, Mexico;
Tequisquiapan, Qiieretaro ; mountains north of Guanajuato city,
Guanajuato, Mexico.
