SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 9I
SCIURUS ALLENI Nelson. Allen's Squirrel.
'Sciurus carolinensislV Baird, Mamm. N. Am., pp. 263-264, 1857 (Santa
Catarina, Nuevo Leon, Mexico).
Sciurus carol inensis var. carolinensis Allen, Mon. N. Am. Rodentia, pp.
706-709, 716, 1877 (part: from^ Nuevo Leon, Mexico).
Sciurus carolinensis Alston, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, pp. 658-659, 1878;
Biol. Cent.-Am., Mamm., pp. 124-125, June, 1880 (part: from Nuevo
Leon, Mexico).
Sciurus arisoncnsis Allen, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y., iii, p. 222,
May, 1 89 1 (part : from San Pedro Mines, Nuevo Leon, Mexico).
Sciurus alletii Nelson, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, pp. 147-148, June
3, 1898.
Type locality. — Monterey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. Type no. |^^|}
U. S. National Museum, Biological Survey Collection.
Distribution. — Open pecan and other forests of Low^er Sonoran
zone near Monterey, Nuevo Leon, extending up to oak and pine forests
of Transition zone near Victoria and Miquihuana, Tamaulipas,
Mexico (alt. 2000-8500 ft.).
Characters. — Upperparts nearly uniform grayish brown or yellowish
brown, much as in Sciurus carolinensis; feet gray ; underparts white.
Pelage on back soft and rather dense ; tail rather full. Teats : p. \
n 2 ; 1
Color. — Winter pelage : Entire upperparts yellowish brown, finely
grizzled with gray and black, usually darker along back and grayer
along sides; top of head similar, but usually a iittle darker; eye with
distinct ring of dingy whitish shaded with buff on outer border ; sides
of head grizzled dusky gray, often suffused with yellowish brown ;
ears and basal patch brownish gray ; fore feet and outside of fore legs
whitish gray, frequently more or less washed with buffy ; hind feet
whitish gray, usually with a spot of dark buffy on middle of upper
surface ; outside of thighs like flanks but often with a browner shade
near feet; underparts white; color of upper- and lowerparts
usually separated by a narrow line of pale grayish ; base of tail all
around like back ; tail above black, heavily washed with white, the
yellowish brown or yellowish gray undercolor often showing through;
below with broad median area of grizzled yellowish brown or yellow-
ish gray, narrowly bordered with black and edged with white. Hairs
of back black, with one and often two rings of gray, buffy, or buffy
brown, the two colors sometimes on same hair and sometimes on
distinct hairs. The pelage in summer is darker and more yellowish
brown than in winter — due to absence of most of tlie gray or white
tips to hairs.
