92
NELSON
Variation. — The striking differences in proportions between speci-
mens from the lowlands near Monterey and those from the mountains
near Miquihuana (alt. 8500 ft.) as shown by the average measure-
ments are not accompanied by similar differences in color. The upper-
parts are sometimes grizzled brown and vary from that to nearly clear
gray. A specimen from the San Pedro Mines, Nuevo Leon, has
the upperparts dark yellowish brown, darkest (thinly washed with
black) on top of head. The eye is surrounded by a ring of dark
buff, the fore feet are washed with buff and the hind feet with grayish
white. Another specimen in similar pelage was taken at Miquihuana,
Tamaulipas, in June ; a winter specimen from Rio San Juan, Nuevo
Leon, is almost as dark but has grayer sides and feet. No signs of
melanism seen.
Measurements. — Average of five adults from vicinity of type local-
ity : total length 471 ; tail vertebrae 217; hind foot 60.6. Average of
five adults from mountains near Miquihuana, Tamaulipas: total length
465 ; tail vertebrae 330.4; hind foot 6^.?>.
Cranial characters. — Premolars y. Skulls of S. alleni are only
distinguishable from those of S. oculatiis by their smaller size. Five
adult skulls from region of type locality average : basilar length
50.4; palatal length 26.3; interorbital breadth 18.4; zygomatic
breadth 33.7; length of upper molar series 10.5. Five adult skulls
from near Miquihuana average: basal length 50; palatal length 25.6;
interorbital breadth iS.i ; zygomatic breadth 33.7; length of upper
molar series 10.3.
General notes. — Scinrus alleni bears a close superficial resem-
blance to S. carolinensis of Texas, but has only a single premolar.
From S. o. tohtccc it differs mainly in smaller size, grayer feet and whiter
belly. The type of this species came from near Monterey, Nuevo
Leon. By a slip of the pen in the original description the type locality
was given as Monterey, Tamaulipas. Baird called attention to this
squin-el in 1857, '^^iider the name ' Sciurus carolinensis?'?' and gave
the essential characters which separate it from S. carolinensis. Sub-
sequent authors have referred it to the same species or to 6". arizofi-
ensis., but a series in the collection of the Biological Survey shows that it
is a well defined species most nearly related to S. oculatus. Neither
S. carolinensis^ nor any close relative of that species occurs in
Mexico.
Specitnens exa?nined. — Twenty-two : from Monterey, Linares, Rio
de San Juan, and San Pedro Mines, Nuevo Leon ; near Victoria and
Miquihuana, Tamaulipas.
