94
NELSON
distinct. This is probably the summer pelage but may possibly rep-
resent a local form. Two specimens from Santa Teresa have the
entire underparts dark rusty buffy and are the only ones showing this
color below.
Measure7ne7its. — Average of five adults from type locality : total
length 565.8; tail vertebrae 272 ; hind foot 77.5.
Cranial characters. — Premolar \. Upper molars broader and
heavier than in 6". oculatus, but otherwise the skulls are scarcely dis-
tinguishable. Five adult skulls from the type locality average : basi-
lar length 55.5 ; palatal length 28.4; interorbital breadth 20.7 ; zygo-
matic breadth 37.1 ; length of upper molar series 11.7.
General notes. — The type of 6". alstoni Allen came from the Sierra
Valparaiso, but in renaming the species Dr. Allen called it S.
nayaritensis from the Nayarit Mts., a part of the Sierra Madre about
100 miles southwest of the type locality.
Specimens examined. — Forty-one : from Sierra Valparaiso, Sierra
Madre, and Plateado, Zacatecas; Sierra Madre, northern Tepic;
Sierra de Juanacatlan and Barranca Beltran (east base Sierra Nevada
de Colima), Jalisco.
SCIURUS APACHE Allen. Apache Squirrel.
Sciurus griseoflaviis Thomas, Proc. Zool, Soc. London, 1882, p. 372 (not
S. griseofiavits Gray, 1867).
Sciurus niger ludoviciatius Thomas, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1890, p. 73,
footnote.
Sciurus apache Allen, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y., v, p. 29, March
16, 1893.
Type locality. — Mountains of northwestern Chihuahua (near Ba-
vispe River .?) , Mexico. Type no. ff^f , American Museum of Natural
Histoi"y, New York.
Distribution. — Mixed oak and pine forests of Transition zone in
the Sierra Madre of western Durango and Chihuahua, eastern Sonora
and northeastern Sinaloa, Mexico, and the Chiricahua Mountains of
southern Arizona.
Characters. — Size large, about equalling S. ludoviciamis to which
it bears a strong general resemblance in color, but is readily distinguish-
able by its gray ears, darker, more iron gray upperparts, dull rusty
ferruginous hind legs and black upper surface of the tail which is
thinly washed with pale yellowish white, or rusty buff. Pelage thick
and soft; ears thinly haired. Teats: ^- \^-\ i- y-
Color. — Summer pelage : Upperparts including top of nose and
base of tail dark, sometimes almost iron gray, often washed but never
