SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 95
strongly shaded with yellow. Crown and back darker, often becoming
blackish along middle of rump and on base of tail ; top of back some-
times, and flanks commonly, washed with pale yellowish ; sides of head
grizzled gray and dark fulvous, the gray sometimes predominating;
ring around eye well marked and varying from buffy white to rich
fulvous buffy ; ears dingy gray sometimes suffused with pale buffy ;
a scanty basal patch of dull buffy or orange buff sometimes present ;
feet and often most of fore legs and entire underparts varying from
dark dull buffy yellow to rich orange yellow, sometimes suffused with
rusty; hind feet usually a little darker than fore feet; outside of hind
legs varying from gray suffused with dull rusty to uniform rusty some-
times with a strong tawny rufous shade that extends over inside of
thighs ; tail above black, with a wash varying from pale yellowish white
to rusty yellow; below with broad median area varying from yel-
lowish rusty to dull rusty rufous with a broad indistinct black border
and broad edge of pale yellowish, or rusty buffy, the latter colors often
forming a wash over entire lower surface. Hairs of back black, with
small white or pale yellowish tips and broad buffy or yellowish basal
or sub-basal rings.
Variation. — The amount of individual variation is comparatively
small ; the back becomes a little paler or darker, the color on outside
of thighs more or less intense, and color of lower parts varies in in-
tensity as already described.
Measurements. — Average of five adults from northern Chihuahua :
total length 565.8; tail vertebras 279; hind foot 79.2.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull much larger than that of
S. oculatus., with audital bullae proportionately smaller. Five adult
skulls from western Durango average as follows : basilar length 56.4 ;
palatal length 28. 7; interorbital breadth 21.5; zygomatic breadth
37.5; length of upper molar series 11.9.
General notes. — Although the color of Sciurus apache is very
much like that of S. ludovicianus, the form of the skull shows that it
belongs to the subgenus Ara:osciiir7is, of which S. octilatus is the
type.
During the summer of 1898 we found S. apache common m the
mixed forest of pines and oaks on the mountains of western Durango.
They live in hollow oaks, entering by a knot hole or broken branch
and were rarely seen on the pines. The upper limit of their range
overlaps the lower limit of S. diirangi but neither occupies much
territory of the other. The type of this fine squirrel came from the
region once occupied by the Apache Indians for whom it was named.
Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., May, 1899.
