96 NELSON
Specimens examined. — Thirty-three : from El Sal to (southwest of
Durango City), Durango ; near Guadalupe y Calvo, Bavispe River,
and Sierra Madre near Arizona border, Chihuahua ; Sierra de Choix,
northeastern Sinaloa, Mexico ; and the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona.
SCIURUS ARIZONENSIS HUACHUCA Allen.
Huachuca Squirrel.
Sciurus arizone7tsis huachuca ^lA.Y.'H, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y., vi,
p. 349, Dec. 7, 1894; Ibid., vii, p. 245, 1895.
Tyfe locality. — Huachuca Mountains, southern Arizona. Type
no. f|-f^ American Museum of Natural History, New York.
Distribtition. — Pine and oak forests of Transition zone, in north-
eastern Sonora, Mexico, and Huachuca Mountains, southern Arizona.
Characters. — Generally similar to S. arizonensis but with a broad
band of gray over back of neck and shoulders, separating the median
grizzled yellowish or pale rusty area into a narrow patch on crown
and ears and a larger one on lumbar region and rump. Pelage full
and soft; tail long and bushy. Teats: p- y a- f i- y-
Color. — May specimens from Ft. Huachuca, Arizona : upperparts,
including top of nose and base of tail, pale grizzled gray with rusty
yellow wash on back of crown, lumbar region and rump ; sides of
neck, flanks, and outside of hind legs somewhat paler than top of
shoulders ; fore feet and outside of legs grizzled gi-ayish white, some-
times pale gray ; hind feet pale grizzled gray ; ring around eye whitish,
or slightly buffy; sides of head whitish gray often with postocular
yellowish brown suffusion ; ears dingy grayish or dull yellowish, some-
times with small patch of dull gray or rusty yellow behind base ; under-
parts white ; tail above black washed with white, heaviest along
border ; below, broad median area grizzled rusty, dull orange yellow
or yellowish brown, with heavy black border and broad white edge.
Hairs on back black with white tips and broad yellow sub-basal or
basal rings, or with subterminal buffy yellow rings, mixed with other
hairs wholly black. Winter pelage similar to that of summer but a
little grayer on sides of body and outside of legs and feet ; ears more
thickly haired and dull rusty with basal patches of same color ; white
on tail more distinct.
Variation. — The type of ktiackuca has a dull yellowish wash on
crown, and the ears and basal ear patches are rusty ; the rest of the
upperparts are grizzled gray, darker along middle of back where an
intermixture of rusty forms a small irregular patch ; the flanks, outside
