SQUIRRELS OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 99
Sciurus cestuans Alston, Biol. Cent. -Am., Mamm , pp. 132-133, 1880 (part :
Costa Rica and Panama).
Sciurus cestuans hoffmanni h.XA.'^^, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y., iii, pp,
206-207, 1891 ; Ibid., IX, p. 35, 1897 ; Alfaro, Mamiferos de Costa
Rica, p. 31, 1897.
Type locality. — Costa Rica, Central America.
Distribution. — Humid tropical forests of Costa Rica, south to Val-
ley of upper Cauca River, Colombia.
Characters. — Size similar to that of S. cestuafzs, but color much
darker and more rusty brown on back, more ferruginous red on under-
parts, and tail heavily washed with bright ferruginous. Tail broad
and flat ; pelage soft and rather thin.
Color. — Entire upperparts, including top of nose and base of tail,
finely grizzled dark yellowish or rusty brown ; top of head and middle
of back usually a little darker than sides and sometimes blackish ; out-
side of legs and feet similar to back but often more yellowish or rusty ;
ears usually a little darker rusty than top of head, with small basal
patch of dingy fulvous or dull rusty ; sides of head more yellowish or
rusty than back ; ring around eye dark buffy or sometimes rusty yellow-
ish ; chin and throat dull buffy yellowish, sometimes suffused with
rusty ; rest of underparts varying from dull rusty buff to deep ferrugi-
nous ; tail above black, heavily washed with bright ferruginous, some-
times becoming paler but always strongly ferruginous; below with
broad median area of grizzled black and dark yellowish brown, bordered
with black and edged with ferruginous. Hairs on back, black with
narrow sub-terminal rings of buffy or rusty yellow, sometimes with
similar sub-basal rings.
Variation. — The amount of variation seems to be comparatively
small. Specimens from Talamanca and Santa Clara in eastern Costa
Rica are darker than those from elsewhere in that country. Some
from the valley of the upper Cauca River, Colombia, are a little paler
or more olivaceous than Costa Rica specimens, but others from the
same district are indistinguishable.
Meastirements. — Averages of four adults from eastern Costa Rica :
total length 426.6 ; tail vertebrae 187; hind foot 54.3.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull (pi. L, fig. 7) rather
broad, braincase arched and inflated over interparietal region and con-
stricted posteriorly, so that the occipital region is a little drawn out ;
audital bullae small and rounded. Five adult skulls from central and
eastern Costa Rica average: basal length 43.2; palatal length 23.3;
interorbital breadth 17; zygomatic breadth 31.3; length of upper
molar series 9.
