100 NELSON
General notes. — A specimen of hoffmanni from Costa Rica (no.
12058 U. S. Nat. Museum) has been compared with the type of Ma-
croxus xanthotus Gray by Mr. Thomas, who writes that they are the
same except that Gray's type is immature. The distribution of M.
griseogena Gray was given as extending from Venezuela to Mexico,
but it is scarcely necessary to state that no species of squirrel has this
range. Mr. Thomas writes that the question of the type of griseogena
is very difficult, but it seems best, as with tephrogasier., to take the
first named specimens (Dyson's) as the type (B. M.47.2. i. 3). This
is the only one mentioned by Gray which exactly agrees with his de-
scription, and since Venzuela specimens agree best with 47.2. i. 3.
that country becomes the type locality for M. griseogena. Mr.
Thomas compared a specimen of .S*. cestuans from Venezuela (no.
1 1 733 U. S. Nat. Museum) with the type of griseogena and found
them to agree very closely. The Venezuela squirrels seem to repre-
sent a form of cestuans paler and less rufous than hoffttianni.
Specimens examined. — Twenty-five : from Boruca, Talamanca,
Luis, San Jose and Santa Clara, Costa Rica ; Rio Lima, Las Pabas,
Los Tambos, Rio Zapata, Rio Pescado and upper Cauca Valley near
Cali, Colombia.
SCIURUS RICHMONDI Nelson. Richmond's Squirrel.
Sciurus richmondi Nelson, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, pp. 146-147,
June 3, 1898.
TyPe locality. — Escondido River (50 miles above Bluefields),
Nicaragua. Type no. ||||^ U. S. National Museum, Biological Sur-
vey Collection.
Distribution. — Dense humid tropical forests of the lowlands along
the Escondido River.
Characters. — Similar to S. cestuans hoffmanni but underparts
more ochraceous and tail washed with dull yellow. Pelage thin and
soft ; tail slender. Teats : p.^ a.f .
Color. — Upperparts, including top of nose and base of tail, nearly
uniform dark, ochraceous brown, darker on crown and along middle
of back ; outside of fore legs and feet like sides of neck, and more
ochraceous than back; outside of thighs like back, hind feet some-
times like thighs, but usually more ochraceous ; ears like crown, a
small dingy yellow basal patch sometimes present ; side of head paler
or more yellowish brown than back, with a narrow ring of dark
brownish buffy about eye ; underparts varying from dark buffy yellow
