102 NELSON
Honduras, northward along mountains on both coasts of Guatemala
and Chiapas, to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, and thence along the east
coast of Mexico to Papantla, Vera Cruz (alt. below 6000 feet, spo-
radically up to 9000 feet).
Characters. — Size small ; upperparts dark rufous or olive brown ;
fore feet and outside of fore legs dark gray in typical specimens (like
back in others) ; tail above black thinly washed with white. Tail
slender; pelage soft and rather full ; under fur long; ears long and
thinly haired. Teats : p. i a. ^ i. \.
Color. — Eighteen specimens from near type locality: Upperparts
including top of nose and base of tail, uniform finely grizzled dark
rusty brown varying to dull dark yellowish brown; ears like crown,
with small basal patch of white or dingy fulvous ; sides of head paler
and more yellowish than back ; outside of fore legs and fore feet dark
gray, contrasting with color of back ; outside of hind legs like back,
with hind feet similar but a little darker; underparts white, or grayish
white, sometimes buffy on breast and inside of thighs, and color of
flanks sometimes extending in on inguinal area and inside of thighs ;
tail above, black thinly washed with white ; below, with broad median
area varying from grizzled ferruginous brown to dark yellowish bi'own,
bordered with black and edged with white. Dorsal hairs black, with
broad subterminal and sub-basal rings of yellowish or rusty brown.
Variation. — This species presents considerable individual variation,
but in view of its wide distribution there is remarkably little geograph-
ical variation. Seasonal changes of pelage are not marked, the only
notable differences being the frequent absence, in summer, of the ear
patches and white tip of the tail, which is thus left black. There are
no signs of melanism. Specimens from the vicinity of Jico and Las
Vigas, Vera Cruz, and elsewhere in the higher parts of the range of
the species are considerably larger than those from the low country
near the type locality, but without accompanying differences in color.
Specimens from the damp forests of eastern Mexico are somewhat
darker along the middle of back, with underparts more inclining to
fulvous than in those from interior and western Chiapas. The series
from southwestern Chiapas, and a specimen from Truxillo, Honduras,
are moi-e olivaceous above and clearer white below. A specimen from
central Guatemala (Coban to Clusec) is decidedly darker and more rusty
above and below than the average, but other Guatemala specimens are
nearly typical. Most specimens have the underparts soiled whitish or
grayish, but there is every gradation through pale buffy to dark fulvous
and rusty rufous. A Verreaux specimen (no. ^y^Vy U. S. National Mu-
