104 NELSON
In some places it is very abundant, notably on the east slope of the
Cofre de Perote above Jico, Vera Cruz, and on the mountains above
Tapachula, Chiapas.
Specimens examined. — Seventy three : from Papantla, Jico, Las
Vigas, Jalapa, Cordova, Motzorongo and Catemaco, Vera Cruz;
Metlaltoyuca and Huachinango, Puebla ; Reyes and mountains near
Santo Domingo, Oaxaca ; Ocuilapa, San Cristobal, Pinabete and
Tumbala, Chiapas ; Coban to Clusec and central-western Guatemala ;
Truxillo, Honduras.
SCIURUS NEGLIGENS Nelson. Little Gray Squirrel.
Sciuriis arisonensis Alston, Biol. Cent. -Am., Mammalia, pp. 125-126, 1880
(part: from Tampico, Tamaulipas, Mexico).
Sciurus deppei A1.1.KS, Bull. Am. Mus. Hist., N. Y., iii, p. 222, 1891 (part :
from Valles, San Luis Potosi ; and Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico ).
Sciurus negiigens Nelson, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, xii, p. 147 June 3,
1898.
Type locality. — Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, Mexico. Type no. 93028
U. S. National Museum, Biological Survey Collection.
Distribution. — Arid tropical forests of lowlands in extreme north-
ern Vera Cruz, eastern San Luis Potosi, and southern half of Tam-
aulipas, Mexico (below 1000 ft.).
Characters. — Size of 6". deppei; ears longer and dull rusty ; upper-
parts rather pale grayish brown ; underparts white or pale buffy yellow.
Pelage soft and rather thin ; tail thin and slender. Teats : p. \
a. y 1. y.
Color. — Upperparts, including top of nose and base of tail, rather
pale, finely grizzled grayish brown, generally with a slight yellowish
or dull rusty suffusion, most marked posteriorly ; sides of head and
neck, and sometimes nape, dingy yellowish brown ; ears varying from
dingy rusty to dark ferruginous ; a small dingy white basal patch
usually present ; fore feet, outside of legs, and sometimes adjacent part
of shoulders, dull gray ; outside of thighs and hind feet usually like
rump, but toes sometimes gray ; underparts white, varying to uniform
deep fulvous or almost rusty yellow ; inside of thighs pale buffy in
white bellied specimens; chin and throat usually white; tail above
black, thinly washed with white ; below with broad median area
grizzled and varying from yellowish to grayish brown, bordered by a
thin line of black and thinly edged with white. Hairs of back black,
with narrow subterminal and sub-basal rings of yellowish gray or yel-
lowish brown.
