I06 NELSON
chest and Inside of fore legs pale dull ferruginous, shading posteriorly
into dark brown, with only a slight wash of reddish along middle of
belly and inside of thighs ; tail at base like back ; remainder of tail all
around, grizzled dark reddish brown and black with fine yellowish
brown tips to hairs; hairs of extreme tip forming a black pencil.
Hairs on back black with narrow subterminal rings of rusty yel-
lowish.
Variation. — Two adults, including the type and one partly grown
young, show but little variation except in color of underparts. The
immature specimen is slightly more reddish on back and tail ; the
cheeks, chin, throat, chest and line down middle of abdomen are dark
dull ferruginous, and the sides of abdomen are similar to flanks. The
other adult is like the type except in the dull brownish buffy of the
underparts.
Measurements. — Average of two adults (from dry skins) : total
length 251 ; tail vertebrae 109; hind foot 37.
Cranial characters. — Premolars \. Skull (pi. I, fig. 6; pi. II,
fig. 2) short, broad, and much arched over top of braincase, the con-
vex outline descending in an almost unbroken curve to edge of occiput ;
rostrum short and broad, especially at base where the upper parts of
the premaxillaries are very broad and heavy ; jugals very broad verti-
cally, much more so than in the other species examined in this sub-
genus. Measurements of type skull : basal length 29.5 ; palatal length
14.2; interorbital breadth 13; zygomatic breadth 22; length of upper
molar series 6.
General notes. — Little is known about the interesting squirrels of
the subgenus Microsciiiriis., but, as suggested by Dr. Allen, further
work in Central and South America is revealing other species. Mr.
Cherrie collected the type in the forest on the slope of the Volcano of
Turrialba, near Jimenez, Costa Rica, and the species has been found
since in several other parts of the country.
Specimens exaiyiined. — Three : from Jimenez, San Carlos, and Re-
ventazon, Costa Rica.
