MEXICAN AND CENTRAL AMERICAN UMBELLIFER^ II5
note that the recent genus Neonelsonia, founded upon a single
species, has been strengthened by the discovery of a species
heretofore referred to Arracacia.
The accompanying tables will serve to show the development
of our knowledge of the Umbelliferge of the region since Hems-
ley's presentation of the family in the Biologia. The numbers
given include only the native and named species. The endemic
genera are indicated b}^ asterisks.
The genera are arranged in the sequence given by Drude in
Engler and Prantl's JVaiiirlichen Pflanzenfamilien, which is by
far the most masterly presentation of the group which has yet
appeared. The following purely artificial key to the genera
may be of service to those not familiar with them.
Artificial Key to the Genera.
Flowers in dense heads ; leaves usually with bristly or spiny-toothed
margins 7. Eryngium.
Flowers not in heads, evidently umbellate ; leaves not spiny-toothed.
Fruit conspicuously bristly.
Fruit covered with hooked bristles.
Leaves palmately divided, with broad segments.
6. Sanicula.
Leaves ternately dissected, with filiform segments.
21. Leptocatdis.
Fruit with bristles only on the ribs.
Bristles barbed at tip ; stylopodium obsolete.
39. Dauctis.
Bristles not barbed; stylopodium conical. ..9. Caucalis.
Fruit not bristly (except Osmorhiza) .
Flowers in simple umbels (sometimes proliferous or even
irregularly branching in Hydrocotyle') .
Fruit more or less stellate-pubescent 3. Boivlesia.
Fruit not stellate-pubescent.
Seed-face more or less sulcate or involute.
Fruit narrow 10. Oreo?nyrr/iis.
Fruit orbicular 11. Neogoezia.
Seed-face not sulcate or involute.
Stems creeping i . Hydrocotyle.
Stems more or less erect and leafy.
Leaves cuneate at base 5. Astericium.
Leaves not cuneate at base.
Leaves with naked petioles and reniform blades.
2. Micropleura.
Leaves with tuft of hairs at top of petiole, and
ovate acuminate blades 4. Spananthe.
