9 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the student. To these two species add the wind-flower (Anemone
nemorosa, L.), all of which appear at about the same time and in simi-
lar situations, and the student has three forms over which he may
work for some hours before the representations of the three genera
are satisfactorily determined. It is, however, just such work that
opens the eyes of the young naturalist and makes him mindful of
little things. The shepherds-purse ( Capsella Bursa-pastoris, Moench)
is an intruder from Europe that has found its way into our cultivated
ground, and become most ugly because so much in the way of other
and better plants. This weed seems to be running a race to the seed-
goal with some other of our plant-pests. During the present season
strings were tied upon certain flower-stalks when their flowers were in
bloom, and a record was kept of the time required for the maturing of
the seed. The number of days varied from fourteen to seventeen.
This is in striking contrast with the two long years of maturation re-
quired for the acorns of many species of oaks. The ubiquitous dande-
lion can, however, win the pennant for quick-seeding from the shepherds-
purse. It can reach the home-line when capsulla is only half-way round
the track. But while a dandelion-plant, on an average, produces 1,720
seeds, the shepherds-purse ripens 17,600, or more than ten to one ! The
same student has determined this year that these figures are low in-
deed when compared with those for the offspring of the purslane speed-
well ( Veronica peregrina, L.). This small plant began flowering on
May 3d, and before six weeks were past it had produced 186,292 seeds.
What some plants may lack in size and durability they make more
than whole by wonderful powers of reproduction. The Dicentra cu-
cullaria (DC.) is the interesting Dutchmans breeches, with the
heart-shaped corolla, much like its cultivated favorite sister, the Di-
centra spectabilis (DC), better known as bleeding-heart, with its
long, gracefully bending stems, each bearing a dozen or more of rosy
hearts. Our early wild dicentra exceeds its cultured relative in deli-
cacy and beauty of foliage and its strange-shaped flowers, which are,
although smaller and less highly colored, not less interesting struct-
urally. The visiting insect, intent upon securing the honey secreted
at the base of the petals, must brush aside a close-fitting cap or hood
before the pollen and the stigma may be touched. The two canals
leading to the nectar are so constructed that the insect, usually a bee,
in thrusting his proboscis into either, brings his body against the hood
and, pushing it aside, dusts fresh pollen from some other flower upon
the stigma. Before he leaves, new pollen is unintentionally secured by
the insect for the fertilization of the next flower visited. The hood of
the pendent blossom falls back to its accustomed place as soon as the
bee retires, and again incloses the pistil and the six stamens situated
close around it. When we remember that the stamens of a particular
flower may mature before its stigma, it is easy to understand that the
pollen of that flower, although placed close by the side of the stigma,
