PRAIRIE-FLOWERS OF EARLY SPRING. 91
is designed for some other flower, and the presence of nectar and
proboscis-canals, as well as a fine landing-place for the bee, at the base
of the hanging corolla, are all to secure cross-fertilization. This little
species has worked out the problem in a most interesting way, and
doubtless the insects have had much to do with determining these
final results.
The box-elder and the silver-maple began blooming on April 16th.
There is no evident relation between size of plant and extent of floral
structure. Some Alpine gentians have flowers an inch long, while the
balance of the plant is shorter and probably has less weight than the
single blossom it bears. The most wonderful flower of all is that of
Hafflesia Arnoldi, which sometimes measures nine feet in circumfer-
ence and weighs fifteen pounds. These monstrous blossoms are almost
without stem, being sessile (sitting) upon the branch of the vine from
which as a parasite the flower derives its nourishment. In striking
contrast with this obese robber the stately and independent silver-ma-
ple has inconspicuous flowers that might be readily overlooked if they
did not appear before the foliage. The genus Acer, to which the silver
or soft maple belongs, is very variable in this last point. Some species,
like the one in hand {Acer dasycarpum, Eh.), flower before unfolding
the leaves ; others, like the highly prized sugar-maple, have the flowers
and leaves appear at the same time ; while others are laggards, and bring
forth their blossoms after the leaves are fully formed and busy with
their work. The same differences hold as to the time of ripening the
seeds. The silver-maple has its seeds ready for the last breezes of
May, and upon the large wing each little plantlet takes an airing that
the thoughtful student watches with much delight. If the breeze is
strong, the seed passes along with the unsteady and rapid progress of
a butterfly, usually with a downward course from the tree-top, where
it was borne, but sometimes it rises and hastens on, perhaps to fall on
rich soil a hundred rods from the parent tree. Each of these winged
fruits bears a single seed within, and as the fruit falls upon the ground
the heavy end strikes first, thus bringing the root of the little plantlet
in the best position for rapid development. When the fruits fall upon
sod-ground, the condition that often obtains in Nature, the passing
breezes play upon the uplifted wing and tend to work the heavy seed
end of the fruit into the turf. Under favorable conditions the soft-
maple seeds germinate at once, and, before the season closes, seedlings
a foot or two in height may be produced. The late-flowering maples
do not make any such progress, and seem satisfied if they simply secure
a good crop of seeds. In order to test the importance of the soft-ma-
ple seeds obtaining a suitable place for germination as soon as they are
mature, a quantity were gathered and stored in a dry place, where
other seeds are kept. A year after they were sown in rich, moist soil,
alongside of a row freshly gathered from under the same trees. None
of the year-old seeds grew, while the fresh ones soon sent up their
