92 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
stems and leaves. The silver-maple plantlet is pulpy and already of a
deep green when it falls from the tree, and probably is killed as soon
as it becomes thoroughly dried. The seed runs many risks for the
sake of being a sizable seedling the same season.
The box-elder (Negundo aceroides, Moench) belongs to a most
closely related genus to the maples, and by some botanists it is placed
with them in the genus Acer. The most striking difference is seen
in the leaves, those of the box-elder being compound like the ash, hence
one of the common names, ash-leaved maple, while the leaves of the
familiar maples are simple. In the box-elder the sexes are separated
much more clearly than in the maples. One tree bears only staminate
flowers while another has only pistillate blossoms, and therefore bears
the fruit. To have good seeds it is necessary that at least two box-
elder trees be in the same vicinity, and one of these must be male and
the other female. This tree is the type of hardiness in the severe
climate of the Northwest, but in this connection there are some points
not easy of explanation. The box-elder of one section of the country
may be identical- in structure with specimens in a different climate,
but widely different in hardiness. This brings to view again the law
of adaptation as applied to the inherent ability to withstand the un-
toward circumstances that have surrounded the ancestry for long
periods in the past. The same is true of many other species growing
over wide areas of country. They may possibly retain the same bo-
tanical characteristics, but beyond all that the eye, with the aid of the
best microscopes, can see, there is that which enables one plant to
flourish when another will fail.
The 17th of April brought blossoms of Caltha 2)cdustris (L.), and
Carex stricta (Lam.). The first is the marsh-marigold, or perhaps
more familiarly known as the cowslip. The genuine cowslip of
the poets is a different plant, it being a primrose. The caltha is a
pot-herb of no great merit, and does not possess that type of beauty
which inspires the muse. The carex is the second sedge of the season.
It doubtless has its place to fill in the scheme of creation.
April 18th introduced us to three species, the Pojndus monilifera
(Ait.), or cottonwood ; Antenaria planiagini folia (Hook), the plan-
tain-leaved everlasting ; and Viola palmata, var. cucidlata (Gray), the
common blue violet. Spring has now fairly opened, for the violets
have come. This day throws together in the list three very different
plants. The poplar is one of the most wide-spread and hardiest of
trees. It is the only kind of arboreal vegetation in many places
along water-courses of the Northwest, in regions subject to severe
climatic conditions. It can bear the heat and drought of summer and
the extreme cold of winter when other forms succumb. It may be
worthy of note that this hardy tree produces timber that is among the
lightest on the list of woods in the United States. Its specific gravity
is only .388G, or a little more than one third as heavy as water. We
