PRAIRIE-FLOWERS OF EARLY SPRING. 93
have sixteen species of trees yielding wood heavier than water. Nearly
all of these are in the Southern States, and several are confined to the
extreme south of Florida, which is a tropical or sub-tropical region.
The Southern pine {Pinus palustris, L.), from which we get an excel-
lent lumber, besides pitch, tar, turpentine, etc., is nearly twice as heavy
as the Northern or white pine {Pi?ius strobits, L.). The very hardy
box-elder yields only a light wood. It would seem that firmness of
texture and great specific gravity of wood are not characteristics that
accompany ability to induce wide ranges of conditions and sudden
changes in temperature.
The little everlasting, with leaves like the plantain, although cov-
ered with a soft, silky wool, is the earliest representative of the largest
of all the natural orders of flowering plants, the Compositaz or sunflower
family. It does not announce its coming into bloom by any display of
showy colors, and the young naturalist could be forgiven for either
not seeing it, or not desiring to struggle with it, through the bewilder-
ing maze of the key to the genera of this difficult order.
The Viola cucullata of Aiton has gone, and in its place we must
write V. palmata, var. cucullata. Dr. Gray, in his recent revision
of the North American violets, of which he finds thirty-three species,
has restored Viola palmata of Linnaeus. This is a very variable spe-
cies. There seems to be no part of leaf or flower that is not subject
to a wide range of variation, unless we except the three-valved pod
with its single cavity. Many species of violets are remarkable for a
second kind of flowers, which are inconspicuous, closed, and self-fertile.
They may be found in all stages of development beneath the soil and
throughout the growing season. Last autumn the writer gathered a
quantity of the seed from the underground pods and mixed them with
seeds from pods produced by the ordinary flowers, and no one of the
many persons to whom the mixture was submitted could detect any
difference. Yesterday (October 14th) a class of one hundred students
in elementary botany analyzed the Viola palmata, L. Abundant ma-
terial for this exercise was obtained on a piece of land near a railroad
that had been burned over during the prolonged drought which lasted
for more than two months in midsummer. The plants having passed
through so severe a season, which was followed by abundant warm
rains, perhaps have been deceived, and are arrayed in the garb they
had prepared for spring. The form with entire leaves the old V.
cucullata tinge the bank of the railroad-track with their unusually
high-colored flowers, while the palmata is abundant on the higher
land. The V. delphinifolia (Nutt.) is our most common violet of
spring, but it has not been found in bloom this autumn, nor has any
other than the ones mentioned been reported, although we have eight
or more species and some varieties in the State.
The 20th of the month of showers, of smiles and tears, as the
poet would say or has said, brought out the Amelanchicr Canadensis
