94 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
(T. and G.), and five other species. The amelanchier is often called
shad-bush in the Eastern States, when the famous river-fish of
spring have their period for ascending the streams, which time cor-
responds somewhat with the blossoming of the amelanchier. June-
berry and service-berry are other names for this small tree, which,
when in full bloom, is very attractive. The wild strawberry (Fragaria
Vzrginiana, Ehrh.), a member of the same family (Rosacea?) with the
June-berry, is recorded for the same day. The best of all straw-
berries, even in this age of a thousand cultivated varieties, were those
gathered in youth upon the grassy hill-side. The flavor of the wild
strawberry is nearly lost in many of the larger and more showy fruits
of her highly pampered offspring. The toothwort, or dentaria (Dentaria
laciniata, Muhl), and Draba Carol iniana (Walt.), or whitlow-grass,
come almost side by side in the manual as members of the Cruciferm
or mustard family. In the first we have an old friend of childhood
days. Many an eager youth has burrowed his fingers deeply into the
rich leaf-mold and earth, in search of the little potato-like root-stocks
filled with a peppery and toothsome substance. The mustard-like
flavor gets too strong as the root-stocks grow old, so that the luxury
of gathering them in early spring is appreciated. Unlike its nearly
related toothwort, the draba is a lover of sandy, waste places, where
it, in its smallness and feeble growth, can have its own way. It does
not enter into the sharp competition with other plants for the pos-
session of the rich soil. Its strength and durability reside in its being
content with poor fare.
The last but far from the least of the five flowering plants for April
20th was nothing less than the smooth lungwort (Mertensia Virginica,
DC). The bell-shaped flowers are of the choicest blue, a color that is
both rare and beautiful in plants. It is no wonder that it has been
transported from the moist banks of streams to adorn the flower-border
in early spring, under the name of blue-bells or Virginia cowslip,
or, better still, Mertensia, the generic name, taken from a German
botanist, Mertens. The West has several of the mertensias, the most
striking of which, to travelers in the Rocky Mountains and Sierra
Nevadas, is the Mertensia Siberica (Don.). It covers the borders of
mountain-streams with a rank herbage three to five feet in height,
bearing a profusion of bright, light-blue flowers. This giant of the
dashing mountain-streams has its dwarf form (var. Drummondii,
Gray) upon the far-away Arctic sea-shore.
April 21st finds the prickly-ash (Zanthoxylion Americanum, Mill),
the small flowered buttercup (Ranunculus ctbortivus, L.), and the
round-leaved gooseberry (Ribes rotundifolia, Michx.), in bloom. The
prickly-ash, sometimes called toothache-tree, is perhaps the near-
est of kin of the orange, lemon, lime, and shaddock that grows in this
flora. The aromatic bark and pungent leaves are a poor reflection of
the very agreeable aroma that accompanies the fruit of the tropical
