96 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
its close of kin the larkspur-violet ( VI delpldm folia, Nutt.), and the
Indian turnip (Arascema triphyllum, Low.), sometimes better known
as Jack-in-tbe-pulpit. The writer will never forget his first intro-
duction to the tuberous root-stock, or turnip, of the last-named
plant. The mean face of the full-grown man who prepared a slice of
the turnip for me (then only an inexperienced child) has never
faded from my memory. My directions were to chew it and swallow
all quickly. Only those who have tasted of the conn know how in-
tensely acrid its substance can be.
For the balance of the month, and in the order here given, the fol-
lowing plants came into bloom : The bur-oak ( Quercus macrocarpa,
Michx.) 3 wild plum [Primus Americana, Marsh) ; white-oak ( Quer-
cus alba, L.) ; butternut (Juglans cinerea, L.) ; spike-rush (Eiiocharis
obtusa, Sch.) ; columbine {Aquilegia Canadensis, L.) ; hard maple
(Acer saccharinum, var. nigrum, Gr.) ; meadow-rue (Thalictrum clioi-
cum, L.); blue cohosh ( Caulophyllum thalictroides, Michx.); wild black
currant (Ribes floridum, L.) ; wild gooseberry (Ribes cynosbati, L.) ;
and the lousewort (Pedicularis Canadensis, L.). This dozen species
includes five trees, four of which are of great economic value, the hard
maple and the white-oak taking the first places. Among the herbs,
the columbine, or the honeysuckle of childhood, is the most showy.
Boys as well as bees know that sweet is found at the base of each long
spur-petal.
It will be seen that fifty-six species bloomed here (Ames, Iowa)
during the month of April, or an average of about two and a half per
day from April 6th, when the first blossoms of the hepatica were dis-
covered, until the close of the month. The species recorded for May
number seventy-seven and for June one hundred and thirty-one. The
average for May is the same as for April, but for June it rises to four
and one third per day. In July, it is five and a quarter new plants
per day, Sundays not excluded. The season of 1886 has been an
exceptional one. The spring opened early as the large number of
species blooming in April substantially proves. During two months
in midsummer there was only a quarter of an inch of rain instead of
nine, which is the average. This drought pushed many species for-
ward out of their natural places, and has doubtless much influenced
the record.
The flora of the State of Iowa is not very large in numbers. Professor
Arthurs catalogue made in 1876 gives nine hundred and seventy-nine
species, including well marked varieties. Since 1876 one hundred and
ninety-seven additions have been made to the list of flowering plants,
thus increasing the total number to eleven hundred and seventy-six.
A preliminary list for this county (Story), in which six hundred and
nine species % and varieties are recorded, has been made the present
season by a graduate student, Mr. A. L. Hitchcock, and to whom the
writer is indebted for a full and careful record of the time of bloom-
