HATS AS A CAUSE OF BALDNESS. 97
ing of the plants in this vicinity. He was aided by a large class in
botany, among the members of which existed a stimulating spirit of
rivalry in bringing the first blooms of any species to the class-room.
Over fifty observers, therefore, have been gatherers of the facts upon
which the present paper is founded.
HATS AS A CAUSE OF BALDNESS.
By W. C. GOUINLOCK.
THE suggestive article in your October number, under the heading
A Bald and Toothless Future, should arouse more than a tem-
porary interest. Of late, frequent reference to baldness has been made
in medical and other journals, but none of the articles I have read
have given the cause, it seems to me, nor suggested the proper means
of prevention. The reasons given are mainly : Wearing a close, warm
head-covering, thus rendering the natural one superfluous ; the custom
of cutting the hair close, living and working indoors, ill-ventilated
hats, uncleanliness, and heredity. So many explanations indicate an
uncertainty as to the real origin. Is it probable that such a uniform
result can be due to so many and diverse causes, some of which must
operate in one case and not at all in another ?
The habit of wearing warm coverings on the head is not of recent
date ; the armies of Europe, for instance, no inconsiderable number of
men, with heads close cropped, have worn for a long period warmer
and heavier head-gear than the modern dwellers in cities, without the
same tendency to baldness. Nor are the heavy fur coverings of
northern races incompatible with luxuriant hair. It is also difficult to
understand what injury can result from close cutting, /er se. The
growth is in the hair-follicle, and in it alone ; there is no vital connec-
tion between the hair outside the scalp and within ; it is usually cut
closest at the back of the head and neck, where baldness never occurs.
Would not close cutting rather stimulate the growth by exposure of
the scalp ? Such at least is the popular belief. So, too, with indoor
life : women, who ought to show it most, whether in the home or in
the factory, are never bald as men are ; on the contrary, it is most
common with men in good circumstances, as Mr. Eatons statistics
show, men who spend a larger proportion of their daytime in the open
air than the indoor worker.
I believe the common form of baldness is due entirely to the kind
of hat that is worn, principally to the high hat and the hard felt hat,
but also to any other head-covering that constricts the blood-vessels
which notirish the hair-bulbs. To have a clearer understanding of
this, we must remember that the scalp is supplied with blood by ar-
teries at the back, sides, and front of, and lying close to, the skull,
VOL. XXXI. 7
