THE
POPULAR SCIENCE
MONTHLY.
MAY, 1887.
THE NATURAL YEBSUS THE SUPERNATURAL.
By JOHN BUKKOUGHS.
OUR theological professors make a mistake when they think they
have weakened or parried the objections of science to their doc-
trines by pointing to the fact that science is constantly revising or re-
versing its own conclusions ; that what was deemed good science at
one time is found to be false science at another. This modern infalli-
bility which men call science is a phrase used by Rev. Dr. Jenkins
in criticising in the Evangelist my paper on Science and The-
ology in the December number of this magazine.
We who are yet upon the safe side of the ministerial dead-line,
he says, can remember when it w r as scientific to assert the diverse ori-
gin of the race from four or six pairs of progenitors ; and we have
come to the day in which science will not leave us as much as Adam
and Eve for a beginning. We have learned the igneous origin of gran-
ite, just in time to be commanded to unlearn it, and substitute an
aqueous origin. And the conclusion, therefore, is that science is dis-
credited, and that he who builds upon it plants his house upon the
sands. But science makes no claim to infallibility ; it leaves that
claim to be made by theology. This shifting of positions and this
changing of results but marks its growth, its development ; and it is
precisely this active and inquiring spirit, this readiness to correct its
errors, and this eagerness to reach a larger generalization, that makes
it the enemy of the traditional theology. It abandoned the Ptolemaic
system of astronomy for the Copernican, because the latter was found
to be the most complete generalization ; but theology still adheres to
its Ptolemaic system of things. To seek to discredit science because
it has made mistakes, and has had to unlearn many things, is to deny
the very principle of progress ; it is to reflect upon the child because
he grows into a man. The main outlines of the physical universe sci-
TOL. XXXI. l
