ioo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
brilliant and varied decoration, and at another an expansive and im-
posing structure, but it has usually the charm of novelty, sometimes of
beauty, and it never destroys the growth of hair.
Mans bigh bat for many generations has varied within very nar-
row limits, and bas always been ugly and unnatural. Why it should
so long have held its sway it is hard to understand. An artist can not
make it interesting in bis work. It will not compare with the Oriental
turban, the Scotch bonnet, or even the slouch hat, for comfort or grace-
ful capabilities ; but the average man will wear it long after bis faith
in hair tonics and restorers with seductive promises has been shattered.
Still, let him remember, as be takes his after-dinner repose, that his
favorite hat will certainly and inevitably extend the pasture-lands of
the domestic fly.
*
AMONG THE TEANSYLYANIAN SAXONS.
I. MARRIAGE-CUSTOMS.
WHEN the waving surface of the green oat-fields begins to assume
a golden tint, when the swelling heads of Indian corn hang
heavy on their stalks, and the sweating peasant prepares for the last
act of his hard summer labor, then also do the good-wives in the village
begin to talk of matters which have been lying dormant till now.
Well-informed people may have hinted before that such and such
a youth had been seen more than once stepping in at the gate of the
red or green house in the long village street, and more than one gossip
had been ready to identify the speckled carnations adorning the hat of
some youthful Konrad or Thomas as having been grown in the garden
of a certain Anna or Maria ; but after all, these had been but mere
conjectures, for nothing positive could be known as yet, and ill-natured
people were apt to console themselves with the reflection that St. Kath-
erines Day was a long way off, and that there is many a slip twixt
cup and lip.
But now the great day which will dispel all doubt, and put an end
to surmise, is approaching that day which will destroy so many illu-
sions and fulfill so few ; for now the sun has given the last touch to the
ripening grain, and soon the golden sheaves are lying piled together on
the clean-shorn stubble-fields, only waiting to be carted away. Then
one evening when the sun is sinking low on the horizon, and clouds of
dust along the high-road announce the approach of the returning cat-
tle, a drum is heard in the village street, and a voice proclaims aloud
that to-morrow the oats are to be fetched home. Like wildfire this
news bas spread throughout the village ; the cry is taken up and re-
peated from mouth to mouth with various intonations of hope, curios-
ity, anticipation of triumph To-morrow the oats will be fetched !
A stranger, no doubt, fails to perceive anything particularly thrill-
