AMONG THE TRANSYLVANIAN SAXONS. 101
ing about this intelligence, having no reason to suppose the bringing
in of oats to be in any way more interesting than the carting of pota-
toes or wheat ; and to the majority of land-owners the thought of to-
morrows work is chiefly connected with dry, prosaic details, such as
repairing the harness and oiling the cart-wheels ; but there are others
in the village on whom the announcement has had an electrifying
effect, and for whom the words are synonymous with love and wed-
ding-bells.
Five or six of the young village swains, or maybe as many as eight
or ten, spend that evening in a state of pleasurable bustle and excite-
ment ; busying themselves in cleaning and decking out the cart which
is to fetch the oats to-morrow, furbishing up the best harness, groom-
ing the work-horses till their coats are made to shine like satin, and
plaiting up their manes with gaudy-colored ribbons. Early next
morning the sound of harness-bells and the loud cracking of whips
causes all curious folk to rush to their doors ; and as every one is
curious, the whole population is soon assembled in the street, to gaze
at the sight of young Thomas, all attired in his bravest clothes, and
wearing a monstrous nosegay in his cap, riding postilion on the left-
hand horse, and cracking his whip with ostentatious triumph while
behind, in the gayly decorated cart, is seated a blushing maiden, who
lowers her eyes in confusion at seeing herself the object of general
attention at least this is what she is supposed to do, for every well-
brought-up maiden ought surely to blush and hang her head in grace-
ful embarrassment when she first appears in the character of a bride ;
and, although no formal proposal has taken place, yet, by consenting
to assist the young man to bring in his oats, she has virtually con-
fessed her willingness to become his wife. Her appearance on this
occasion will doubtless cause much envy and disappointment among
her less fortunate companions, who peep out furtively through the
chinks of the wooden shutters, at this sight of a triumph they had
hoped for themselves.
So it is the red-haired Susanna, after all, and not the millers
Agnes, as every one made sure, the gossips are saying. And who
has young Martin got on his cart, I wonder ? May I never spin flax
again, if it is not verily the black-haired Lisi who was all but promised
to small-pox Peter of the red house ! and so on, and so on, in endless
variety, as the carts go by in procession, each one giving rise to mani-
fold remarks and commentaries, and not one of them but leaves disap-
pointment and heart-burnings in its rear. This custom of the maiden
helping the young man to bring in his oats, and thereby eignifying
her willingness to become his wife, is prevalent only in a certain dis-
trict in the north of Transylvania, called the Haferland the land of
oats a broad expanse of country covered at harvest-time by a billowy
sea of golden grain, the whole fortune of the land-owners.
In other parts of the country various other bridal customs are preva-
