102 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
lent, as for instance in Neppendorf, a large village in the neighborhood
of Hermanstadt, inhabited partly by Saxons, partly by Austrians, or
Landlers, as they call themselves. This latter race is of more recent
introduction in the country than the Saxons (who count seven centuries
since their emigration), having only come hither in the time of Maria-
Theresa, who had summoned them to the country in order to replenish
some of the Saxon colonies in danger of becoming extinct. If it is
strange to note how rigidly the Saxons have kept themselves from
mingling with the surrounding Magyar and Roumanian races, it is yet
more curious to see how these two German races have existed side by
side for over a hundred years without amalgamating and this for no
antagonistic reason, for they live together in perfect harmony, attend-
ing the same church, and conforming to the same regulations, hut each
preserving its own identical customs and costume. The Saxons and
Landlers have each their different parts of the church assigned to
them ; no Saxon woman would ever think of donning the fur cap of a
Landler matron as little w T ould the latter exchange her tight-fitting
coat for the wide-hanging cloak of the other woman.
Until quite lately, unions have very seldom taken place between
members of these two races. Only within the last twenty years, have
some of the Saxon men awoke to the consciousness that the Austrian
women made better and more active housewives than their own phleg-
matic country-w r omen, and have consequently sought them in mar-
riage. Even then, when both parties are willing, and all preliminaries
have been arranged, many a projected union makes shipwreck on the
inflexibility of the two fathers, who w T ill neither concede the least trifle
to the others wishes. Thus, for instance, when the Saxon father of
the bridegroom demands that his future daughter-in-law should adopt
Saxon attire when she becomes the wife of his son, the Austrian father,
as likely as not, will take offense, and withdraw his consent at the last
moment. Not a pin nor a bow will either of these two consent to
sacrifice to their childrens happiness. Thus many hopeful marriages
have been nipped in the bud, and those few which have been accom-
plished have been almost invariably based on the understanding that
each party retains its own attire, the daughters following the mother,
the sons the father, in the matter of costume.
Among the Landlers, the marriage proposal takes place in a way
which deserves to be mentioned. The youth having secretly fixed
upon the girl he would like to make his wife, prepares a new silver
thaler (about 2s. Gel.) by winding round it a piece of bright-colored
ribbon, and wrapping the whole in a clean sheet of white letter-paper.
With this coin in his pocket, he repairs to the next village dance, and
takes an opportunity of slipping it unobserved into the maidens hand
while they are dancing together. By no word or look does she betray
any consciousness of his action, and only when back at home she pro-
duces the gift, and acquaints her parents with what has taken place.
