AMONG TIIE TRANSYLVANIAN SAXONS. 103
A family council is then held as to the merits of the pretendant, and
the expediency of accepting or rejecting the proposal. If the latter
be decided upon, the maiden must hasten to intrust the silver coin to
a near female relation of the young man, who, on receiving it back, is
given thereby to understand that he has nothing further to hope in
that direction ; but if three days have elapsed without the gift being
returned, he is entitled to regard this as a consent, and may commence
to visit in the house, on the footing of an official wooer. In cases of
rejection, it is considered as a point of honor that no word should
betray any hint of what has passed to the outside world a delicate
reticence one is surprised to find in these simple folk. This giving
of the silver coin is probably a remnant of the old custom of buying
the bride, and in many villages it is still usual to talk of the JBraut
Ivaufen.
To return, however, to the land of oats, where, after the harvest
has been got in successfully, the bridegroom prepares to make fast the
matter, or, in other words, officially to demand the maidens hand of
her parents. It is not consistent with village etiquette, however, that
the bridegroom in spe should apply directly to the father of his in-
tended, but he must depute some near relation, or an intimate friend,
to bring forward the request. The girls parents, on their side, like-
wise appoint a representative to transmit the answer. These two am-
bassadors are called the Wortmachcr, u word-makers sometimes
also the Hochzeitsv titer, wedding-fathers and are treated with
marked consideration and deference during: the wedding festivities.
Much talking and speechifying are required to transact a peasant
wedding correctly from beginning to end, and a fluent and eloquent
Wortmachcr is therefore a much-prized individual. Each village has
its own set formulas for each of the like occasions long-winded,
pompous speeches, rigorously adhered to, and admitting of neither
curtailment nor alteration. The following fragment of one of these
speeches will give a correct notion of the general style of Saxon ora-
tion.
It is the Ho chzeitsv titer who, in the name of the young mans par-
rents, speaks as follows : A good morning to you herewith, dear
neighbors, and I further wish to hear that you have rested softly this
night, and been enabled to rise in health and strength this morning.
And such being the case, I will thank the Almighty for his mercies
toward you ; and should your health, and the peace and happiness of
your household, not be as good as might be desired in every respect,
so at least will I thank the Almighty God that he has made your lot
endurable, and beg him further to send you in future only so much
grief and trouble as you may be enabled patiently to bear at a time.
Furthermore, I crave your forgiveness that I have made bold to enter
your house thus early in the morning, and trust that my presence here-
in may in no wise inconvenience you or put you to shame, but that
