AMONG THE T RAN SYLVAN I AN SAXONS. 105
get to like him ; and if not, well, the misfortune is not so great, and it
will then be time enough to seek for a divorce.
When the answer to the proposal has been a consent, then the com-
pact is sealed by a feast, called the JBrautvertrlnken (bride-drinking),
to which are invited only the nearest relations on either side, the places
of honor at the head of the table being given to the two ambassadors
who have transacted the business. A second banquet, of a more solemn
nature, is held some four weeks later, after the rings have been ex-
changed in the presence of the pastor.
The 25th of November, the feast of St. Katherine, is in many dis-
tricts the day selected for tying all these marriage-knots. When this
is not the case, then the weddings take place in Carnival, oftenest in
the week following the Sunday when the gospel of the marriage at
Cana has been read in church, and Wednesday is considered the most
lucky day for the purpose. The preparations for the great day occupy
the best part of a week in every house which counts either a bride or
a bridegroom amonsr its inmates. There are loaves and cakes of vari-
ous sorts and shapes to be baked, fowls and pigs to be slaughtered
in wealthier houses even the sacrifice of a calf or ox is considered de
rigueur for the wedding-feast ; and when this is the case, the tongue
is carefully removed, and, placed upon the best china plate, with a few
laurel-leaves by way of decoration, is carried to the parsonage as the
customary offering for the reverend Ilerr Vater (the pastor). The
other needful provisions for the banquet are collected in the following
simple manner : On the afternoon of the Sunday preceding the wed-
ding, six young men belonging to the brotherhood are dispatched by
the Altknecht from house to house, where, striking a resounding knock
on each door, they make the village street re-echo with their cry,
Brbxgt Hahm ! bring cream. Thi3 is an invitation which none
durst refuse. All those who belong to that neighborhood are bound
to send contributions in the shape of milk and cream, eggs or butter,
lard or bacon, to the wedding-houses within their quarter. Every
gift, even the smallest one of a couple of eggs, is received with
thanks, and the bringer rewarded by a draught of wine.
Next day the women of both families assemble to bake the loaves
for the wedding-feast ; the future mother-in-law of the bride-elect
keeping a sharp lookout on the girl, to note whether she acquit her-
self creditably of her household duties. This day is in fact a sort of
final examination the bride has to pass through, in order to prove her-
self worthy of her new dignity ; and woe to the maiden who is dilatory
in mixing the dough or awkward in kneading the loaves ! While this
is going on, the young men have been to the forest to fetch wood ;
for it is a necessary condition that the wood for heating the oven
where the wedding-loaves are baked should be brought in expressly
for this occasion, even if there be small wood in plenty lying ready
for use in the shed. The cart is gayly decorated with flowers and
