io6 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
streamers, and the wood conveyed home with much noise and merri-
ment, much in the ancient English style of bringing in the Yule-log.
On their return from the forest, the court-yard gate is found to he
closed, or else a ropC from which are depended straw hunches and
bundles, is stretched across the entrance. The women now advance
with much clatter of pots and pans, and pretend to defend the yard
against the besiegers ; but the men tear down the rope and drive in
triumphantly, each catching at a straw-bundle in passing. Some of
these are found to contain cakes or apples, others only broken crock-
ery or egg-shells. The young men sit up late into the night, splitting
up the logs into suitable size for fire-wood. Their duties further con-
sist in lighting the fire, drawing water from the well, and putting it to
boil on the hearth. Thus they work till well into the small hours
of the morning, now and then refreshing themselves with a hearty
draught of home-made wine, the women meanwhile having lain down
to rest.
When all is prepared, it is then the turn of the men to take some
sleep, and they wake the girls with an old song, running somewhat
as follows :
All in tlio early morning gray
A lass would rise at break of day.
Arise, arise,
Fair lass, arise,
And ope your eyes,
For darkness flies,
And your true-love will come to-day.
The lassie would so early 11
Her pitcher at the running rill.
Awake, awake,
Fair lass, awake,
The dawn doth break,
Your pitcher take,
For come to-day your true-love will.
Another song of equally ancient origin is sung the evening before the
marriage, when the bride takes leave of her friends and relations :
FAREWELL-SONG OF THE SAXON BrwIDE.
I walked beside the old church-wall,
My love stood there, but weeping all.
I greetel her, and then she spnke:
Dear love, my heart is like to break.
I must away, I must be gone ;
AT lien to return, God knows alone!
When to return? when the black crow
Bears on its wing plumes white as snow !
I set two roses in mv fathers land
O father, dearest father, give me again thy band!
