io8 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTELT.
My house 13 built of gnodly stone,
But in these walls I feci so lone !
A mantle of finest cloth I wear,
But ueath it an aching heart I bear.
Loud howls the wind, wild drives the snow,
Parting, oh, parting is bitterest woe !
On the beltry-tower is a trumpet shrill,
But down in the churchyard the dead lie still.
Very precise are the formalities to be observed in inviting the
guests. A member of the brides family is deputed as Kinlader (in-
viter), and, invested with a brightly painted staff as insignia of his
office, he goes the round of the friends and relations to be asked. It
is customary to invite all kinsfolk within the sixth degree of relation-
ship, though many of these are not expected to comply with the sum-
mons the invitation in such cases being simply a matter of form,
politely tendered on the one side, and graciously received on the other,
but not meant to be taken literally as being but honorary invitations.
Unless particular arrangements have been made to the contrary, it
is imperative that the invitation, in order to be valid, should be re-
peated with all due formalities, as often as three times the slightest
negligence or divergence from this rule being severely judged and
commented upon ; and mortal offense has often been taken by a guest,
who bitterly complains that he was only twice invited. In some vil-
lages it is, moreover, customary to invite anew for each one of the
separate meals which take place during the three or four days of the
wedding festivities.
Early on the wedding morning the bridegroom dispatches the
Wortman with the Morgengabe (morning gift) to the bride. This
consists in a pair of new shoes, to which are sometimes added other
small articles, such as handkerchiefs, ribbons, a cap, apples, nuts, etc.
The ambassador, in delivering over the gifts to the Wortman of the
other party, speaks as follows : Good-moming, Herr Wortman, and
all worthy friends here assembled ; the friends from our side have
charged me to wish you all a very good-morning. I have further
come here to remind you of the laudable custom of our fathers and
grandfathers, who bethought themselves of presenting their brides
with a trifling morning gift. In the same way our young master the
bridegroom, not wishing to overlook this goodly patriarchal custom,
has likewise sent me here with a trifling offering to his bride, trusting
that this small gift may be agreeable and pleasing to you all. The
bride, on her side, sends to the bridegroom a new linen shirt, sewed
and embroidered with her own hands. This shirt he wears only twice
once on his wedding-morning for going to church, the second time
when he is carried to his grave.
Before going to church all the men assemble at the house of the
bridegroom, and the women at that of the bride. The young people
