AMONG THE TBANSYLVANIAN SAXONS. 109
only accompany the bridal pair to church the elder members of
both families remaining at home until the third invitation has been
delivered. Then all together proceed to the house of the bride, where
the first days festivities are held. There is much speechifying and
drinking of healths, and various meals are served up at intervals of
three and four hours distance, each guest being provided with a cov-
ered jug, which must be always kept replenished with wine. It is
usual for each guest to bring a small gift or contribution to the newly-
set-up household of the young couple, and these are deposited on a
table spread for the purpose in the center of the court-yard ; or, if the
weather be unfavorable, inside the house, bride and bridegroom stand-
ing on either side to receive the gifts. First it is the bridegrooms
father who, approaching the decorated table, deposits thereon a new
shining plowshare, as symbol that his son must earn his bread by the
sweat of his brow ; then the mother advances with a new pillow,
adorned with bows of colored ribbon, and silver head-pins stuck at the
four corners. These gay adornments are meant to represent the pleas-
ures and joys of the married state ; but two long streamers of black
ribbon, which hang down to the ground on either side, are placed
there likewise, to remind the young couple of the crosses and misfor-
tunes which must inevitably fall to their share. The other relations
of the bridegroom follow in due precedence, each with a gift in his
hands. Sometimes a piece of home-made linen, a colored handker-
chief, or some other article of dress or decoration ; sometimes a roll
of sheet-iron, a pair of scissors, thread and needles, a packet of nails,
or a farming or gardening implement, each one laying down his or her
offering with the words, May it be pleasing to you. Then follow
the kinsfolk of the bride with similar gifts ; her father presenting her
with a copper caldron or a kettle, the mother with a second pillow,
decorated in the same manner as the first one. Playful allusions are
not unfrequently concealed in these gifts a dolls cradle, or a young
puppy-dog wrapped in swaddling-clothes, often figuring among the
presents ranged on the table.
Various games and dances fill up the pauses between the meals ;
songs and speeches, often of a somewhat coarse and cynical nature,
being a part of the usual programme. Among the games enacted at
some of the Saxon peasant-weddings there is one which deserves to
be mentioned, affording as it does a curious proof of the tenacity of
old pagan rites and customs, transmitted by verbal tradition from one
generation to the other. This is the JRossel Tanz, or dance of the
horses, evidently founded on an ancient Scandinavian legend to be
found in Snorris Edda. In this tale, the gods Thor and Loki came
to a peasants house in a carriage drawn by two goats or rams, and
asked for a nights lodging. Thor killed the two rams, and with the
peasant and his family consumed their flesh for supper. The bones
were then ordered to be thrown in a heap onto the hides of the ani-
