no THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
raals ; but one of the peasants sons had, in eating, broken open a
bone, in order to get at the marrow within, and next morning when
the god commanded the goats to get up, one of them limped on the
hind-leg, because of the broken bone. At first Thor was in a gi-cat
rage, and threatened to destroy the whole family, but finally allowed
himself to be pacified, and accepted the two sons as hostages.
In the peasant drama we have now before us, the gods Thor and
Loki are replaced by a colonel and a lieutenant-colonel, and, instead of
two goats, there are two horses and one goat ; also the two sons of the
peasants are here designated as Wallachians. Everything is of course
much distorted and changed, but still all the principal features of the
drama, which space forbids me here to enlarge upon, are clearly recog-
nizable the killing of the goat and its subsequent resurrection, the
rage of the colonel, and the transferment of the two Wallachians into
his service, being all parts of the performance.
At midnight, or sometimes later, when the guests are about to
depart, there prevails in some villages a custom which goes by the
name of den Borten atVmzc/? dancing down the brides crown or
head-dress. This head-covering, which can only be described as re-
sembling a chimney-pot hat without brim or crown, and from which
depend long streamers of ribbon reaching to the ground, is the sign
of her maidenhood, which she must lay aside now that she has become
a wife, and it is danced off in the following manner : All the married
women present, except perhaps a few very old and decrepit ones, join
hands, the two brideswomen taking the bride between them. Thus
forming a wide circle, they dance backward and forward, round and
round the room, sometimes forming a knot in the center, sometimes
far apart with outstretched arms, till suddenly, either by accident or
on purpose, the chain is broken through at one place, which is the
signal for all to rush out into the court-yard, still holding hands.
From some dark corner there now springs unexpectedly a stealthy
robber, one of the bridesmen, who has been lying there in wait to rob
the bride of her crown. Sometimes she is defended by two brothers
or relations, who, dealing out blows with twisted handkerchiefs or
towels, endeavor to keep the thief at a distance ; but the struggle
always ends with the loss of the head-dress, which the young matron
bewails with many tears and sobs. The brideswomen now solemnly
invest her with her new head-gear, which consists in a snowy cap and
veil, held together by silver or jeweled pins, which are sometimes of
considerable value.
When the young couple go to church the day after the wedding,
they are met at the church-door by a group of masked figures who
surround them, singing and hooting, and playfully endeavor to sepa-
rate the young matron from her husband. If they succeed in so doing,
then he must win her back in a hand-to-hand fight with his adversa-
ries, or else he must give a piece of money as her ransom. In general
