AMONG THE TRANSYLVANIAN SAXONS. in
it is considered a bad omen for the married life of the young couple if
the wife be separated from her husband on this occasion ; therefore it
is customary for the young husband to take his stand close by the
church-door while his wife is praying within, and then be ready to
catch hold of her as soon as she steps outside. For greater precau-
tion, the man often holds her round the waist with both hands during
the dance which immediately takes place before the church, and at
which they assist merely as spectators, taking no active part, as it is
not considered seemly to dance in the church attire.
As commonly several couples are married at the same time, it is
usual for each separate wedding-party to bring its own band of music,
and dance thus independently of the others. On the occasion of a
triple wedding I lately witnessed, it was very amusing to watch the
three wedding-parties coming down the street, each accelerating its
pace till it came to be a sort of race up to the church-door to secure
the best dancing-place. The ground being rough and slanting, there
was only one spot where anything like a flat dancing floor could be
obtained, and the winning party at once secured this enviable posi-
tion, while the others had to put up with an inclined plane or a few
hillocks accidcnting their ball-room floor. The ten to sixteen couples
belonging to each wedding-party are inclosed in a ring of bystanders,
each rival band of music playing away with heroic disregard for the
scorched ears of the listeners. Polka ! calls out the first group ;
Wether ! roars the second, for it is a point of honor that each party
should display a noble independence in taking its own line of action ;
and if, out of mere coincidence, two of the bands happen to strike
up the self-same tune, one of them is sure to change to something
totally different as soon as aware of the unfortunate mistake the
caterwauling effect produced by this system baffling all description.
This is nothing at all, said the worthy pastor, from whose garden I
was overlooking the scene, laughing at the evident dismay with which
I endeavored to stop my ears. Sometimes we have eight or ten wed-
dings at a time, each with their own fiddlers. That is something
worth hearing indeed ! The rest of that day is spent much in the
same manner as the former one, only this time in the house of the
bridegrooms parents.
Among the customs attached to this first day of wedded life is
that of breaking the distaff. If the young matron can succeed in
doing so at one stroke across her knee, then she will be sure to have
strong and healthy sons. If the reverse, she has only girls to expect.
The third day is called the finishing-up day, each of the two fami-
lies assembling its own friends and relations to consume the provisions
remaining over from the former banquet, and at the same time to
wash up the cooking-utensils and the crockery, restoring whatever has
been borrowed from neighbors in the shape of plates, wine-jugs, etc.,
the new-married couple joining the entertainment, now at the one,
