112 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
now at the other house. This day is the closing of the wedding fes-
tivities, which have kept both families in a state of unusual bustle and
excitement for fully a week. Everything now returns to every-day
order and regularity, the young couple usually taking up their abode
in a small back-room in the house of the young mans parents, and
putting off till the following spring the important business of setting
to build a house of their own. Dancing and feasting are now at an end,
and henceforward the earnest of life begins. Blackwoods Magazine.
[ To be continued.]
WILLIAM BABCOCK HAZEK
By Peofessob CLEVELAND ABBE.
THE sudden death of Brigadier-General William B. Hazen, Chief
Signal-Officer of the United States Army, which occurred on Sun-
day, January 16, 1887, deprived the country of one of its most distin-
guished officers, and the Signal Corps of a chief who took a broad view
of its duties and relations to the world of business and science.
General William Babcock Hazen was the great-grandson of
Thomas Hazen, who was born in 1719, and who was himself great-
grandson of Edward Hazen, who emigrated from England before
1G49, and settled at Rowley, Massachusetts, where he died in 1683.
The descendants of Edward Hazen include many names eminent
in business, theology, and war ; energy, industry, and strong convic-
tions characterize the members of the family on all sides.
General Hazen was born at West Hartford, Vermont, September
27, 1830. While he was yet a child, his parents removed to Hiram,
Portage County, Ohio. In 1851 he was appointed from Ohio as a cadet
to the United States Military Academy at West Point, from which
he graduated July 1, 1855. He was assigned to the Eighth United
States Infantry, and spent the next five years in frontier service, more
especially against the Indians in California, Oregon, and Texas, in
which service he displayed an energy and bravery that have been char-
acteristic of his life. His record during these years embraces constant
fights and pursuits. He was twice severely wounded ; and, by virtue
of the latter, he was, in January, 1860, by the surgeons order, granted
a leave of absence as being unfit for duty. In consequence of this, he
was at the North while his regiment was in Texas at the breaking out
of the rebellion ; the regiment having been captured and its officers
released on parole, he alone was unembarrassed by the parole, and was
able to offer his services to the Union army. He was at once assigned
as temporary instructor at West Point. In May, 1861, he became
captain of the Eighth Infantry, of the regular army, and in October
was made colonel of the Forty-first Regiment of Ohio Infantry in the
