n6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
veloped new paths of activity for this service, may be mentioned the
study of local thunder-storms and tornadoes, which were respectively
assigned to Professor Hazen and Lieutenant Finley so far as a collec-
tion of general statistics is concerned ; and to Professor Mendenhall,
so far as concerns the electrical phenomena proper. The study of
atmospheric electricity was especially authorized in 1884, by an order
of the Secretary of War, transmitting the resolutions of the Interna-
tional Electrical Conference held in Paris the preceding year. After
full consultations with numerous electricians throughout the country,
General Hazen decided that a daily map of electric potential show-
ing lines of equi-potential similar to the iso-barometric lines, offered
hopeful prospect of eventually leading to a method of predicting
the formation and motion of thunder-storms and tornadoes. But
the methods of observation, and the apparatus, needed first to be de-
termined upon, after careful experimental work. This whole matter
was, therefore, in 1885, committed to the hands of Professor Men-
denhall.
Perhaps the most important item in internal administration, so far
as it affects the permanent scientific value of the office-work, was the
effort heartily furthered by General Hazen to improve the accuracy
and international comparability of our instrumental equipment. The
standards of the International Bureau of Weights and Measures were
recognized by him as being the proper legal standards for this office,
and every effort made to determine the corrections needed to reduce
the past as well as the current meteorological observations of the Sig-
nal-Service to agree therewith.
Perhaps the generous breadth of General Hazens views, the absence
of injurious jealousies, and his confidence in the principle that the
Weather Bureau would be strengthened by the widest diffusion of an
intelligent appreciation of meteorology, are in nothing more clearly
shown than in the earnestness with which he stimulated the formation
of state weather services, and encouraged the study of meteorology in
every school and college. He was painfully impressed by the disas-
trous influence upon individuals and business of the wide-spread and
utterly absurd predictions of the storms and weather of March 9, 1884,
which were distributed broadcast throughout the country, and ema-
nated from Mr. Vennor. He saw clearly that all this harm could only
be prevented by increasing the intelligence of the people in scientific
matters, and heartily indorsed every effort to diffuse a more correct
idea as to what constituted legitimate meteorology.
Although his duties demanded the maintenance of a great central
office at Washington, yet General Hazen realized that centralization
could easily be carried too far in scientific matters, and would thus
react injuriously upon the work of his office. He was desirous of
rapid progress in all directions, and, to secure this, welcomed every
prospect of co-operation with other institutions as well as with individ-
