WILLIAM BAB COCK HAZEF. 117
uals. One of his first acts was the request for co-operation on the
part of the National Academy of Sciences. He improved the oppor-
tunity to help Professor Langley in the determination of the absorbing
power of the atmosphere ; he accepted Professor Kings offer to carry
observers on his balloon-voyages ; he heartily furthered Lieutenant
Greelys efforts to maintain an international polar station, and joined
with the Coast Survey in establishing a similar station, under Lieuten-
ant Ray, at the northern point of Alaska ; he co-operated with the
Bureau of Navigation in securing weather reports from the ocean;
he powerfully assisted the Metrological Society in its labors for the
reformation of our complicated system of local times, the result of
which was the adoption by the country of the present simple system
of standard meridians one hour apart.
Equally successful was he in his efforts to co-operate in various
methods of disseminating and utilizing the knowledge obtained by
the Weather Bureau for the benefit of the business interests of the
country. With the telegraph companies he published the daily tele-
graph bulletin. Through the railroad companies he displayed the rail-
road train-signals visible to every farmer along the railroads. With
local boards of trade and other business interests he elaborated our
system of flood-warnings in the river-valleys.
General Hazen was especially clear in his views as to the impor-
tance of giving personal credit to each man for his own personal work.
Routine work was credited to the assistants in charge and not to the
impersonal office; having assigned a special work to the best man
available, he took pains to give him the credit and make him person-
ally responsible for its success, thus securing more enthusiasm in the
work.
This notice of a few prominent features in the intense activity
of General Hazens life seems eulogistic rather than historical; but to
the contrary, the fact is that military life rarely offers a position that
requires the promotion of any special science, and still more rarely do
official or military circles present an officer who so thoroughly desired,
as far as allowable, to relax stringent military law and liberally inter-
pret cumbersome official regulations, so that scientific men might suc-
cessfully promote their special work.
if. Grand Euet has propounded a theory that coal was originally a liquid
generated by the decomposition of inferior vegetation in an atmosphere highly
charged with carbonic acid. The carbon of the jelly-like mass thus formed, after
passing through various transformations into asphalt, petroleum, bitumen, etc.,
finally assumed the form of coal. The author cites various facts connected with
the occurrence of coal, which, he thinks, are better explained on his theory than
by the usual one.
