n8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
SKETCH OF JAMES FERGUSSOK
MR. JAMES FERGTJSSON, writer on architecture and its his-
tory, who died January 9, 1886, was distinguished for the dili-
gence with which he prosecuted his researches, and for the originality
of his conclusions. Although the subject to which he chiefly directed
his attention is usually classed among the arts rather than the sciences,
he brought so philosophical a spirit to its study ; so prominently re-
garded it in its archaeological and anthropological aspect, and so com-
bined with the questions which it raised those which relate to the de-
velopment of human civilization ; and so faithfully in all his work
upon it strove, as he expresses the thought, to raise its study from
the dry details of measurements to the dignity of an historical sci-
ence, that he may well be considered entitled to a place among
scientific men.
Mr. Fergusson was born at Ayr, in Scotland, in 1808, the son of
an array-surgeon, who had seen active service abroad, who had a
liking for engineering as applied to architecture, and who wrote on
the construction of hospitals. He was taught in the High School at
Edinburgh and in a private school at Hounslow, and became a resident
of England by the removal of his father to Windsor. When he had
reached an age to start out for himself, he went to India, with a deter-
mination to work steadily in business for ten years, and then to retire
with such fortune as he might have been able to make. He associated
himself with a mercantile house in Calcutta, from which he withdrew
his interest in time to escape being involved in its failure, and after-
ward, having filled for a short time two or three administrative posi-
tions, became an indigo-planter in Bengal.
Pie had, however, already developed a high interest in art, and
found in India an attractive field, and novel in many of its features,
for the cultivation of this taste and the increase of his knowledge. He
made a thorough exploration of the whole peninsula, traveling, for the
most part, on camel-back, and armed with a camera lucida, with which
he was an expert draughtsman. His attention was directed early to
the rock-cut temples of Ajunta, Ellora, and other places. His per-
spicacity, says a critic of his life in the Athemeum, soon guided
him to a true explanation of the origin and character of these remains,
his familiarity with Indian life and modes of worship gave insight as
to the intentions of the excavators, and large comparisons enabled him
to decide on the positive as well as the relative ages of these astonish-
ing works. ... In effect, the first fruit of his researches was a denial
that the temples were architectural at all in the ordinary sense of that
term. His first publication of the results of these studies was the
Illustrations of the Rock-cut Temples of India, which appeared in
