120 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tracing the connection of the various parts with one another. A great
deal had recently been added to knowledge on the subject by the pub-
lication of special treatises in particular departments of it, and pho-
tography and the careful study of ancient monuments and buildings
had furnished means of reaching more correct conclusions. Stress was
laid on this last point, for so long, the author said, as our researches
are confined to what the ancient authors have written, many im-
portant problems remain unsolved, and must ever remain as unsolvable
as they have hitherto proved ; and in the countries and times to
which the monuments appertained, men who had a hankering after
immortality were forced to build their aspirations into the walls of
their tombs or of their temples. Those who had poetry in their souls,
in nine cases out of ten expressed it by the more familiar vehicle of
sculpture or painting rather than in writing. To me it appears that
to neglect these in trying to understand the manners and customs or
the history of an ancient people, is to throw away one half, and gener-
ally the most valuable half, in some cases the whole, of the evidence
bearing on the subject.
In the second edition of the History, which was published in
1874, Mr. Fergusson called attention to the need of a comprehensive and
systematic study of American architecture, saying : What is really
wanted is that some one should make himself personally acquainted
with all the various styles existing between the upper waters of the
Colorado and the Desert of Atacama to such an extent as to be able to
establish the relative sequence of their dates, and to detect affinities
when they exist, or to point out differences that escape the casual
observer. . . . The problem is, in fact, identical with that presented
to Indian antiquaries some thirty years ago. At that time we knew
less of the history of Indian architecture than we now know of Ameri-
can, but at the present day the date of every building and every cave
in India can be determined with absolute certainty to within fifty, or
at the outside one hundred, years ; the sequence is everywhere certain,
and all can be referred to the race and religion that practiced that
peculiar style. . . . What has been done for India could, I am con-
vinced, easily be accomplished for America, and with even more sat-
isfactory and more important results to the history and ethnography
of that great country. The subject is well worthy the attention of
any one who may undertake it, as it is the only means we now know
of by which the ancient history of the country can be recovered from
the darkness that now enshrouds it, and the connection of the Old
World with the New if any existed can be traced, but it is practi-
cally the only chapter in the history of architecture which remains to
be written.
Mr. Fergusson had intended to include in his History chapters
on what were known as Celtic or Druidical remains. But, when the
subject came to be looked into, it was found that the whole was such
