SKETCH OF JAMES FEBGUSSON. 121
a confused mass of conflicting theories and dreams, that no facts or
dates were so established that they could be treated as historical. The
materials which had been collected on this subject were, therefore,
worked into another book, which appeared in 1872, as Rude Stone
Monuments. Its character was rather argumentative than histori-
cal ; it presented the view that the style of architecture to which the
monuments described belong is a style, like Gothic, Grecian, Egyp-
tian, Buddhist, or any other. It has a beginning, and middle, and an
end ; and though we can not make out the sequence in all its details,
this at least seems clear that there is no great hiatus ; nor is it that one
part is historic, while the other belongs to prehistoric times. All belong
to the one epoch or the other. Either it is that Stonehenge and Ave-
bury, and all such, are the temples of a race so ancient as to be beyond
the ken of mortal men, or they are the sepulchral monument of a peo-
ple who lived so nearly within the limits of the true historic times that
their story can easily be recovered. The authors belief was that
they were of Roman and post-Roman times. These conclusions were
disputed ; Sir John Lubbock pronounced some of them hasty and un-
tenable, and some seemingly inconsistent with one another ; but for all
that he accorded the book the merit of being a rich and trustworthy
storehouse of facts. Another critic, Mr. S. P. Oliver, while he ac-
cepted Sir John Lubbocks verdict, predicted that the book would
doubtless become a text-book on that section of archeology which per-
tains to megalithic structures.
In his treatise on Tree and Serpent Worship, which was pub-
lished in 1868, and in a second edition in 1873, Mr. Fergusson, avail-
ing himself of the results of his laborious researches in India, pre-
sented some original views respecting the symbolism of the ancient
religions, and the primitive conceptions from which they may have
arisen.
Another line of work in which Mr. Fergusson distinguished him-
self by his diligence and the novelty of some of his conclusions, wag
that of Jewish, Assyrian, and classical antiquities, the fruits of his stud-
ies in which were presented in a variety of publications and shapes.
In the Topography of Jerusalem he set forth some theories in regard
to the true site of the temple which appear to have been set aside by
later explorations. This was followed by other papers and articles
respecting Jerusalem and its sites. In The Palaces of Nineveh and
Persepolis restored he attempted an exposition of the architecture of
Western Asia from the earliest period to the age of Alexander. By
papers and suggestions he advised and assisted Sir Henry Layard in
restoring the plans and explaining the designs of the temples of Nine-
veh ; and he did a like service for Dr. Schliemann in unraveling the
plans of Troy, Mycenae, and Tiryns. The value of these services was
freely acknowledged by Dr. Schliemann, who, dedicating his Tiryns
to him, styled him the historian of architecture, eminent alike for his
