122 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
knowledge of art and for the original genius which he has applied to
the solution of some of its most difficult problems. He studied the
manner in which the Parthenon (and presumably other ancient tem-
ples) was lighted, and came out with a conclusion different from any
which had been currently held before. It had been supposed that
the lighting of the building was hypaDthral that is, through an
opening in the roof ; Dr. Fergusson maintained that the light was
admitted through side-openings, like the clearstory of a cathedral,
while the sun and rain were excluded ; and the last work he pub-
lished the Parthenon presented the considerations in favor of
this view.
From 1863 to 1866, Mr. Fergusson was, with the exception of the
year 1872, a member of the Council of the Royal Geographical Soci-
ety. When filling this office, says Major-General Sir Frederick Gold-
smid, his advice and assistance, always tendered with readiness, were
of a most useful and practical kind, whether in advancement of the sci-
ence to which the society was dedicated, or in minor details connected
with the buildings in which its deliberations were held. In this soci-
ety he was more frequently heard in participation in the discussions
than in the reading of papers ; but one of his papers, On the Delta
of the Ganges and the Natural Law regulating the Course of Riv-
ers, was pronounced a most original and valuable contribution to
science.
He bestowed much attention on military engineering and fortifica-
tion. He set forth as early as 1849, in his New System of Fortifica-
tion, the advantages of earthworks as defenses against artillery, which
have since been conclusively proved many times in real battle. He
was appointed, in 1857, a member of the Royal Commission to inquire
into the defenses of the United Kingdom ; and he afterward served
for eight months, or till the retirement of his chief, as assistant to Sir
Henry Layard, Chief Commissioner of Public Works.
Regarding the value of Dr. Fergussons work, we have the carefully
measured estimate in the Athenseum, that his acute analysis and
criticism, always intended to illustrate the perfection of common sense,
did not invariably carry conviction ; . . . yet his clear, laborious, and
searching methods commanded attention, and never failed to gain re-
spect. Those who could not agree with his views upon the beauty and
festhetic value of Indian architecture, nor accept his version of the
history of the holy places at Jerusalem, acknowledged the authority
of his masterly and careful studies of whatever kind.
