CORRESP ONDENCE.
12 3
CORRESPONDENCE.
FUNCTIONS OF THE STATE.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
THOUGH usually reading with appro-
bation the Editors Table in The
Popular Science Monthly, I can not re-
frain from expressing a decided dissent
from the position taken in the latter part
of an editorial in the March number enti-
tled Functions of the State. The opinion
therein advanced is that education is no
part of the functions of the State, and that
it would be better, therefore, to leave it in
the hands of the family, even though the
result were to show in the course of a few
years a larger proportion than now of that
kind of illiteracy which consists in not
being able to read or write. In other
words, as I understand the editors mean-
ing, he would do away with our present
public-school system, now regarded by edu-
cators and tax-payers generally as the most
effective means of promoting popular educa-
tion, and substitute therefor a laissez-faire
or go-as-you-please system of private edu-
cation. That is certainly a revolutionary
proposition. Is it logical or tenable ?
The theory of the common-school sys-
tem, by which the wealthy (tax-payers) are
made to bear the burden of educating the
children of the poor, is, of course, that un-
der this system more children are taught
the rudiments of knowledge, and that this
teaching is, as a whole, more effective than
would be the case if the matter were left to
individual action ; that is, that more knowl-
edge is imparted to the people in a given
time than would be possible by any other
means. Back of this is the more funda-
mental assumption that knowledge is good ;
that as the antagonist of ignorance it is
also the enemy of crime and disorder. Can
the truth of either of these propositions be
successfully disputed ?
It needs no figures to prove that igno-
rance is the mother of crime. It is a part
of the common experience of every man.
The patrons of bar-rooms, the criminal
classes in city and country, the inmates of
prisons, are, as a rule, the uneducated.
Educate the children of these people, teach
them the great lesson that happiness, pros-
perity, and success depend upon right living
(to the establishment of this truth all true
education tends), and you decrease crime.
Again, can it be denied that anatomical
and physiological ignorance is the parent
of disease ? Or that ignorance of political
economy gives birth to financial heresies,
to the enactment of unjust or unwise laws,
to mistaken ideas concerning real - estate
tenure, to socialism, communism, and an-
archism ?
If it be admitted, then, that the spread
of knowledge is conducive to the public
weal, the only question remaining is as to
the efficacy of the present school system
to that end. And here, again, it is not ne-
cessary to appeal to statistics to prove that
a large majority of the people in any coun-
try would be pecuniarily unable to educate
their children without some form of State
aid. And of those who could afford it a
large fraction would lack the disposition to
do so. It must be evident to any observer
that were all laws relating to instruction at
public expense to be repealed, and the en-
tire matter left to the individual, popular
schooling would become a thing of the
past. Illiteracy among the masses would
be the rule, and education would be con-
fined to a comparative few among the well-
to-do. A well-defined educated class would
gradually be formed, and a class spirit
would be fostered contrary to the central
idea of a democratic society. The brother-
hood of cranks would increase and multi-
ply, all kinds of isms would flourish and
become powerful, and especially the labor
element, with its demands, would assume
the proportions of a national danger, and
perhaps succeed in time in bringing about
revolution and anarchy.
I think I have not put the case too
strongly. That our present educational
methods are in many respects faulty, and
that there is urgent need of reform in the
manner in which the theory of public edu-
cation is put in practice, I do not deny.
The wisdom of compulsory educational laws
may be questioned. But it seems to me
plain that the theory itself is based upon
correct scientific principles. If there is any
public function which an organized society
is justified in performing, it is to take
measures for the elimination of elements
within itself inimical to its own existence.
And the surest and cheapest way to ac-
complish this is to disseminate the simple
branches of knowledge among its young,
to an extent that will inspire them with a
desire for higher truth, and furnish them
with a sufficient mental equipment for its ac-
quirement and digestion. E. S. Marsh.
Brandon, Vermont, February 2S, 1887.
A CORRECTION.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Sir: In your March issue you say, re-
ferring to my article on socialism, in the
January Scribner : He apparently ap-
