124
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
proves of the exemption of church property
from taxation, in so far as the practice is
grounded on a belief that the interests of
public order will thereby be subserved.
I do not see why you should say this.
There is nothing in my article to justify it.
That article was written, not to discuss
church exemption, but to define and illus-
trate socialism. Church exemption was
only referred to so far as to answer the in-
quiry, Is it socialistic ? Now, my definition
of a socialistic measure say, a legislative
act makes the motive and the objective a
part of the act, equally with the positive
provisions thereof; and by that definition,
the exemption of church property from tax-
ation, with a view to the promotion of good
order, the reforming of vice and violence,
the security of property, is not socialistic.
It may be unwise; it may be monstrously
foolish. On that point I had nothing to
say, because I was writing on socialism.
You express ,l surprise that I should men-
tion the argument in favor of church ex-
emption, without denouncing it as hollow,
unscientific, and a manifest begging of the
question. Pardon me for suggesting that,
whatever may be true of journals of art or
theology, a journal maintained in the inter-
ests of science should encourage writers in
sticking to their subjects, for the time be-
ing, and not going off erratically to discuss
much less, to denounce views which re-
gard matters wholly outside their chosen
field of inquiry. Having decided that the
measure in question was not socialistic, I
had nothing more to do with it in an arti-
cle on socialism.
It was perfectly competent to The
Popular Science Monthly to reject my defi-
nition of socialism ; but it should not blame
me for adhering closely to that definition,
when once adopted. Respectfully, yours,
Francis A. Walker.
Boston, March 18, 1887.
We publish the above letter as a matter
of simple justice to its author. It seems
that we put a wrong construction on that
portion of his article in the January Scrib-
ner dealing with the question of the non-
taxation of church property. All we can
say is that we gave his article a tolerably
attentive reading at the time, and under-
stood him to give at least an implied ap-
proval of the policy of non-taxation, pro-
vided only the claim made for it that it was
favorable to the preservation of public or-
der was urged in good faith. We are now
asked to observe that all he said was that
the policy in question the proviso in ques-
tion holding good could not properly be
described as socialistic. We accept the
correction ; but we think that so practiced
a writer as General Walker might have
guarded more effectually against misappre-
hension if he had tried- These were his
exact words:
The prevention of violence and crime
is the proper function of the state, accord-
ing to the lowest views that can be taken of
it ; and, if a certain amount of encourage-
ment and assistance is extended to religious
bodies genuinely in this interest, no inva-
sion of individual initiative and enterprise
can properly be complained of.
Our correspondent thinks that it would
have been highly unscientific on his part to
have dropped so much as a hint as to the
completely unverified character of the claim
supposed to be put forward on behalf of
the policy referred to. It strikes us that
the case is one in which Science might have
sacrificed a little of its dignity for the sake
of a public benefit. However that may be,
we are glad to have it on record that Gen-
era W r alker does not commit himself in
any manner, or to any extent, to the doc-
trine that church property ought to be ex-
empt from taxation. It is more important
and satisfactory to know this than to know
that he does not regard the doctrine as a
socialistic one ; especially when we consider
how little difference it makes, from General
Walkers point of view, whether a doctrine
is socialistic or not. Editor.
EDITORS TABLE.
ST A TE ED UCA TIOK.
\ \TE publish elsewhere a letter call-
V V ing in question the opinion ex-
pressed in these columns last month
that education was properly a matter
for the family rather than for the state
for private enterprise rather than for
governmental control. The arguments
used by our correspondent have, we
need hardly say, long been familiar to
us ; and therefore their restatement
does not affect our conclusions on the
question at issue. It is, however, due
to our correspondent, and perhaps also
to our readers, to deal briefly with some
of the points raised in his letter.
He says that the alternative to state
education is the laissez-faire, or go-as-
