126
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a given time. Does that settle the ques-
tion? Does the quality of education,
do the moral influences accompanying
it, count for nothing ? Whether would
it be better to give five hundred an
education destitute of moralizing and
idealizing influences, or three hundred
an education penetrated by those influ-
ences, trusting to the action of the
smaller number to promote social order
and harmony ? We ask these questions
not as advancing assumptions, but mere-
ly to show that all is not said when it
is alleged that the state can educate
more rapidly than private enterprise.
If private enterprise and family effort
can educate tetter than the state bet-
ter on the whole, taking both intellect-
ual and moral development into account,
and also the reaction on the elder gen-
eration the higher value of the work
may more than atone for its narrower
range.
It is a singular thing that, in spite of
his strong faith in state education, our
correspondent does not seem to believe
that any extension or continuance of it
would have the effect of making the
people at large so intelligent and self-
helpful that, in the future, they would
he willing and able to look after the
business of education for themselves.
He seems to look forward to the per-
petuity of the system under which the
wealthy tax -payers provide funds for
the education of the children of the
poor ; at least he drops no hint that the
system is ever to cease. Now, suppos-
ing we were to address the poor in
these words : Well, good people, we
are educating your children for you
gratis or nearly so, because we dont
imagine you have either the ability or
the inclination to educate them without
our help. At the same time, please to
understand that we dont expect, by any
education we may give your children,
to make them self-helping when they
come to have children of their own. A
few of them, of course, may rise, while
others, more advantageously situated at
present than they, and getting the same
education, will fall ; but the bulk of
them will remain as you are to day, un-
able to educate their children without
the benevolent help of the rich. But
dont be afraid for your posterity ; the
rich will help, as usual. There are no
classes in this country. How would
all that fall on the ears of the poor?
Would it be extraordinary if some one
on their hehalf were to reply : If we
or our children are not to be educated
out of our poverty a poverty so deep as
to draw down upon us your insulting
patronage we see but little good in it.
Better not to sharpen by knowledge the
edge of our misery !
Let us ask a question. As educa-
tion spreads in this country, are social
distinctions becoming less marked ? Are
inequalities of fortune becoming less
striking, not to say portentous? Our
correspondent dreads the spirit of so-
cialism and anarchism, and thinks it
may grow if the state does not push
popular education vigorously. But the
state has been pushing popular educa-
tion as vigorously as it knew how; and,
precisely when our educational status,
so far as figures can show, is at its best,
do socialism and anarchism, in forms
unknown to an earlier generation, raise
their misshapen and scowling heads.
Might not this have something to do
with the quality of the education im-
parted? Might it not have something
to do with the withdrawal from the
poor of one of the best of all moral
influences, that which comes from a
direct interest in the education of their
own children ? Our correspondent
wants to have political eonomy taught
in the schools so kindly provided by
the rich for the poor. Whose political
economy Marxs or Mills ? Henry
Georges or President Walkers ? It is
precisely because they know that the
rich not only provide, but in a large
measure control, public education, that
the poor have such an aversion to all
the more orthodox forms of political
economy. They want no official doc-
trines on that subject.
