EDITORS TABLE.
127
No, the more the matter is looked
into, the less reason (we believe) there
will be found to congratulate ourselves
on the overthrow by the state of the
old system under which parents planned
and contrived and economized in order
to get their children taught the rudi-
ments of knowledge. Private educa-
tion, it is true, has not been entirely de-
stroyed, for well-to-do parents those
who so generously provide public schools
for the children of the poor often pre-
fer private schools for their own chil-
dren; but it has been destroyed pre-
cisely where it used to do most good,
namely, among the poor. It may be
revolutionary, but we confess we
should like to see the laissez-aller, 1 1
the go-as-you-please, if it must be
called so, of private enterprise backed
as no doubt it would be by the full
force of the modern pulpit applied to
the business of education, without the
least help or interference from the po-
litical machine, and without any legally
enforced contributions from wealthy
tax-payers. Education would then rest
on a natural basis, and would have a
force and a tone that now it almost
wholly lacks. Instead of tending to build
np social distinctions, the change would
have a directly opposite effect by culti-
vating among even the poorest a manly
self-respect. The intellectual and moral
effort which it would impose upon so-
ciety at large would be in itself an edu-
cative influence of the first importance,
and would probably go far to arrest a
growing vice of the age a tendency to
frivolity. It is not by taking away ob-
jects of thought and care from the poor
that we are to create a stable society;
it is by giving them worthy objects of
thought and care. Lastly, by leaving
education to be provided for by the di-
rect contributions of the beneficiaries,
we should probably raise the general
level of wages for the poorer classes,
seeing that this is governed more or less
in all countries by the general standard
of living. At present the general stand-
ard of living among the poor does not
include provision for education ; but
does any one who understands any-
thing of economic laws imagine that
wages have not adapted themselves to
that condition? It appears, therefore,
that what the rich give with one hand
they take away with the other, and,
as a reward for their generosity, are al-
lowed to control in considerable meas-
ure the education of the poor. Who
gains by that arrangement ?
We are glad our correspondent has
given us the opportunity of making
these remarks. As he is evidently a
man of much intelligence, we commend
the whole matter anew to his consid-
eration; and, in connection therewith,
would urge him to read what Herbert
Spencer has written on the subject in
the fifteenth chapter of his Study of
Sociology.
THE NEXT MEETING OF THE AMERI-
CAN ASSOCIATION.
New Yokk, we understand, is this
year to have the honor of entertaining
the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, the thirty-sixth
annual meeting having been appointed
to be held in this city, for the second
Wednesday in August. There are many
reasons why our people should give tlie
Association a hospitable and hearty wel-
come, and spare neither effort nor money
to make its visit pleasant and its meeting
a success. While this is the largest city
on the continent, it enjoys the unenvi-
able distinction of being one of the very
few that have never entertained the As-
sociation, although that organization is
now nearly fifty years old. This is in
strange contrast with the well-known
liberality and intelligence of our citi-
zens, who have been unstinted in their
hospitality to numerous other bodies,
with certainly no greater claims to at-
tention ; and the omission is made all the
more conspicuous by the fact that sev-
eral towns, not one tenth the size of
New York, have already had the Asso-
ciation two or three times. There is,
