128
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
moreover, no community on this side
of the Atlantic which is under a larger
indebtedness to Science than this one-
By virtue of our position we enjoy, far
more than any other city, the fruits of
the immensely extended commerce of
the country, and of the enormous de-
velopment of its manufacturing and
productive interests, all of which have
been carried to tlieir present high state
of efficiency by the applications of Sci-
ence. Our close relations and rapid
intercourse with foreign nations, the
constant interchange of objects of use,
art, and thought, involving incessant
improvement in all departments of hu-
man activity, have been fostered and
perfected, either directly or indirectly,
through the investigations and discov-
eries of the workingmen of this and
kindred associations ; and all the results
thus achieved, whatever their form,
pay tribute, in one way or another, to
the prosperity of the metropolis. Then
we have a right to count upon the so-
cial and educational advantages of the
presence of the Association among us.
By its very character it must elevate
the aspirations and tastes of the people
among whom it meets, in a way that,
though the effect is diminished as the
circle extends, is nevertheless very wide-
ly felt. Those charged with the care
of our educational interests can not fail
to be helped by its coming. Above all
things, they need the spirit of free and
independent inquiry encouraged by its
meetings, and a little of which, applied
to existing educational methods, could
not fail to result in marked improve-
ment. That we have something to learn
in this respect, and that these visiting
Associations may be able to give us ma-
terial aid, was shown by the incident
of the School Industrial Fair, held un-
der the auspices of the Industrial Edu-
cational Association of New York in
this city last year. Many schools out-
side of New York were represented by
exhibits showing the skill of pupils in
the useful and ornamental arts, and re-
flecting great credit on the management I
of those schools. Our city, with its
boasted system, was wholly unrep-
resented. But a direct result of the
exhibition was to wake up the school
authorities, and next time they are not
likely to be found so far behind their
country confreres.
It is to be regretted that the ap-
pointment of the meeting was so long
delayed. Even a full years notice is
not always enough ; indeed, in this re-
spect, the example of the British Asso-
ciation, which fixes its place of meeting
two years in advance, is to be com-
mended. But while the time is short
for the preparations necessary to make
the reception one that shall be wholly
worthy this great city, enthusiasm issu-
ing in prompt and energetic action may
do much to compensate for this; and it
is clearly due to our self-respect, and the
reputation w r e have for liberality abroad,
that we set to work with a determina-
tion to make the meeting a notably suc-
cessful one in the history of the Asso-
ciation.
LITERARY NOTICES.
Outlines of Classification and Special
Morphology of Plants. By Dr. K.
Goebel, Professor in the University of
Rostock. A new edition of Sachss Text-
Book of Botany. Book II. Authorized
English translation. By Henry E. F.
Garnsey, M. A. Revised bv Isaac Bay-
ley Balfour, M. A., M. D., F. R. S.,
Sherardon Professor of Botany in the
University of Oxford. With 407 Wood-
cuts. New York : Macmillan Co.
1887. Pp. 500. Price, $5.25.
As stated above, this work is a new edi-
tion of Part II of Professor Sachss Morpho-
logical and Physiological Botany. It was
prepared at the desire of Professor Sachs
because of the rapid growth of discovery in
this field since the publication of his work
in 1873. Although the researches of Pro-
fessor Sachs were largely confined to the
lower groups of the vegetable kingdom,
especially to the vascular cryptogams, and
were here first given to the world, in Part
II of his text-book. Of its 850 pages 250
sufficed for the treatment of morphology and
classification. Such, however, has been the
