LITERARY NOTICES.
129
activity of investigators in this field in the
last few years, that Professor Goebel has
taken 500 pages for its present treatment.
Of these 500 pages three fourths of the
space is given to that section of the vegeta-
ble world popularly known as flowerless
plants ; for it is here, where so much was
uncertain, that research has been most ac-
tive.
Professor Goebel is himself an original
investigator in botany, and the present vol-
ume contains not only the changes required
by the recent literature of the science, but
the results of his own research. Under
the circumstances, it will be no matter of
surprise that the provisional classification
of the past has given place to consider-
able and important changes. Among these
it may be mentioned in the first place,
that the division of the vegetable king-
dom into cryptogams and phanerogams is
out of date. The discovery of the true re-
lations between phanerogams (gymnosperms
and angiosperms) and the vascular crypto-
gams has revealed that the gymnosperms,
mosses, and vascular cryptogams form a
natural group aptly described as Archw-
ffonalce. It would be thoroughly in ac-
cordance with our present knowledge to
divide the forms of the vegetable kingdom
into thallophytcs, Archaegonatae, and angi-
osperms. For the sake of simplicity of
statement, however, the gymnosperms and
angiosperms still form one division called
seed-plants (spermaphytes). The vegetable
kingdom is divided into four groups : Thal-
lophytes, briophytes (mosses), vascular
cryptogams, and seed-plants. In classify-
ing the lowest group, or thallophytes, it is
now established that lichens do not form a
special class distinct from algre and fungi,
but must be ranked with fungi. In conse-
quence of the present transitional character
of botanical terminology, Professor Goebel
has found it difficult to explain the relations
of the different groups to each other, and
has been obliged to modify the terminology
of previous editions. But he has given a
very full Explanation of Terms at the
end of the volume. A prominent feature
of the book is an attempt to make use
of a consistent terminology based upon ho-
mology ; and Professor Goebel expresses
the hope that the work of improvement will
VOL. XXXI. 9
continue until we shall no longer call the
same object in one place a placenta, in
another a receptacle or a columella, or
use the term frons for the thallus of a
Marchantia or a Pcllia, or apply the term
pro-embryo alike to the protonema of the
mosses, the prothallium of ferns, and the
suspensor of spermaphytes. This volume
will be indispensable to teachers who care
to give their pupils the latest product of
scientific inquiry.
History of the Pacific States of North
America. By Hubert Howe Bancroft.
Vol. XXVII. British Columbia. San
Francisco : The History Company. Pp.
792. Price, $5.
TnERE is little in this book to remind
one of the time3 when 54 40 or fight
was the political cry of the day, and of the
great excitement which our country suffered
over the Oregon question. Yet the subject
of the dispute is the precise territory that
was involved in that controversy. That the
memory of that dispute should have so
lapsed in forty years that it should be only
incidentally referred to, if at all, in this
volume of nearly eight hundred pages, is a
silent comment on the changes that may be
wrought in a generation, and a sign of the
growing civilization of the age. The period
covered by this history is from 1*792 to
1887. It is divided by the author into six
divisions : First, the discoveries, claims,
disputations, and diplomacies relative to
the ownership and division of the domain,
commonly referred to as Nootka affairs.
The second epoch began with the coming of
the fur-traders by land, and continued until
1849, when colonization and colonial gov-
ernment began on Vancouver Island. The
third term, during which the Hudson Bay
Company was still everywhere dominant,
lasted till 1858, when the gold discovery
overturned the existing order of things, and
raised the mainland into a colony. The
fourth period, during which there were two
colonics and two governors, concluded with
the union of the island and mainland under
one colonial government in 1866. The af-
fairs of the confederated colony constitute
the fifth era, terminating in confederation
with Canada in 1871. The present may be
regarded as the sixth period. At this time,,
