3
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
or in 1886, we are informed that British
Columbia, on account of the lack of money
in circulation, is not adapted to any large
immigration of poor families ; but for men
possessing even a small capital, there are few
more profitable investments than a cereal
farm or cattle-rancho within its borders.
As an agricultural region the mainland is
divided into sections by the Coast Range.
The interior has a climate of extremes, and
the coast a mild and equable temperature,
while the southern portion, with its wide,
trough-like valleys, requires irrigation dur-
ing the summer months. Though it contains
large tracts of good arable land, the en-
tire province is better adapted for stock-
raising than for the production of crops.
Vancouver Island contains not more than
300,000 acres of farming-land, of which less
than 15,000 acres were under cultivation in
1886. In the Queen Charlotte Islands there
are some 15,000 acres of flat and un wooded
land, but of this only a few hundred acres
are suitable for agriculture. Public lands
are vested in the provincial government,
and the policy is followed of reserving
them, in the main, for actual settlers. The
exports in 1884 amounted to 3,099,814
and the imports to $4,142,286. The ex-
ports consisted mainly of coal and gold, fish
and fish-oils, peltries, hides, and lumber. The
population is described by the author as, if
not among the richest, among the most con-
tented, hopeful, and thrifty communities of
the Pacific coast, and the colony as entitled
to claim the distinction of being one of the
most progressive regions of British North
America.
Shoppells Modern Houses : An Illustrat-
ed Architectural Quarterly. January,
1887. New York : Co-operative Build-
ing Plan Association, 191 Broadway.
Pp. 12, with Colored Plates. Price, $1,
$4 a year.
The design of this publication is to
furnish, with views and plans, designs for
houses, etc., in number, from which intend-
ing builders may select such as suit them
or nearly suit them. Working plans, speci-
fications, etc., will be furnished on applica-
tion, with plans of such alterations as may
be desired, at fixed rates. Estimates of
cost are based upon actual cost of struct-
ures, such as will be secured by buying
the materials and having the labor per-
formed by days work. The Association
represents that within six years eight thou-
sand houses have been built from its plans.
The present number of Modern Houses
contains forty-nine designs for houses, with
plans, descriptions, and costs, from $1,000
to $12,000; designs for a railroad-station,
and for stables and carriage-houses ; arti-
cles on Axioms and Rules of Color ;
Plumbing and Draining ; Planting a
Large Plot ; Sea-side Cottage Decora-
tion ; and an installment of Viollet-lc-
Ducs Habitations of Man in All Ages,
which is in course of regular publication.
Thk Open Court. A Fortnightly Journal,
devoted to the Work of establishing Eth-
ics and Religion upon a Scientific Basis.
Edited by B. F. Underwood and Sara
A. Underwood. Chicago, 111. $3 per
year, single copies fifteen cents.
The aim of this journal, established
through the liberality of Mr. Edward C.
Ilegeler, is announced to be to continue
the work of The Index that is, to estab-
lish religion on the basis of science ; and,
in connection therewith, it will present the
Monistic philosophy. The new journal
starts out under good auspices ; it is pub-
lished in convenient form, its typography is
very attractive, and, under the charge of
the well-known editor of The Index, we
may reasonably expect a successful career.
The four numbers before us contain ar-
ticles by William J. Pottor, upon Society
and the Individual ; Professor Thomas
Davidson, upon The Need for Free-Thought
Education ; Edmund Montgomery, upon
Monism in Modern Philosophy and the
Agnostic Attitude of the Mind ; by Mon-
cure D. Conway, upon Unitarianism and
its Grandchildren and Jephthahs Daugh-
ter at Honolulu ; and by Anne Olcott Crom-
melin, upon Flowers and Poets. There
are also an editorial department, correspond-
ence, discussions, and book-notices.
With the aims of The Open Court
we are in full sympathy. There can be no
more worthy nor more important object
than that of establishing a scientific basis
for ethics and religion. The times are ripe
for labor in that direction, and able, well-
directed efforts thereto ought to be wel-
comed and encouraged in every way. We
