LITERARY NOTICES.
133
inorganic and those of organic nature are
divided into a descriptive and a philosophi-
cal group. In writing the six succeeding
essays it was the authors design to bring
together in a concise form the facts and the
reasonings from which are deduced what he
regards as the principia of geogeny, geog-
nosy, and mineralogy. The chemistry of
the atmosphere, and the relations of the
earths aerial envelope both to outer space
and to the gases condensed, and the waters
precipitated on the surface of the globe, are
set forth in the third and fourth essays, as
a preliminary to the study of rock-masses.
In the next three essays the genesis and
the geognostic relations of the various crys-
talline rocks are considered ; and finally the
decay of these, which has determined their
present surface-outlines, and has given rise
to the materials of the uncrystalline sedi-
mentary strata. In the fifth essay, Pro-
fessor Hunt attempts to show the defects of
the several other proposed explanations of
the origin of the crystalline rocks, and sets
forth his crenitic hypothesis, according to
which they have been derived for the most
part indirectly and by aqueous solution
from a single primary plutonic mass. These
and other related points are more fully dis-
cussed in the sixth essay.
A system of classification for the min-
eral species composing the earths crust,
which should consider their physical char-
acters in connection with their chemical
composition, and the mode of formation of
mineral species, has seemed to the author
for many years to be a desideratum. What
he believes to be a natural classification of
the native silicates is included in this vol-
ume, and is followed by an outline of the
system as applied to all other native min-
erals. Regarding the silicates as a natural
order, Professor Hunt divides them into
three sub-orders: those without alumina,
which he calls prolosUicales ; those with alu-
mina and containing combined protoxides,
protopcrsilicates ; and those with alumina,
but no protoxides, persilicates. These sub-
orders are divided each into five tribes, ac-
cording to distinctions of structure, hard-
ness, and density. Each tribe is made up
directly of species. The silicates are in-
cluded in the same class with the oxidates,
titanates, niobates, tantalates, tungstates,
molybdates, chromates, vanadates, antimo-
nates, arsenates, phosphates, nitrates, sul-
phates, borates, carbonates, and oxalates.
This class is numbered II ; Class I com-
prises the metallates ; Class III, the haloid-
ates ; and Class IV, . the pyricaustates, or
combustible species. The author has in
preparation a treatise on mineralogy which
will be a complete presentation of this
system.
The next essay deals with the geologi-
cal history of pre-Cambrian rocks, both in
North America and in Europe, and is mainly
a condensation from the account given in
the authors volume on Azoic Rocks. In-
timately connected with this subject is the
history of serpentines, which is sketched in
the following essay. The various opinions
as to the geognostical relations of serpen-
tines which have been held by different
writers are shown, and the authors reasons
for maintaining their aqueous origin are
given. In the concluding essay, the ques-
tion of the Taconic rocks is discussed at
some length. The eleven essays which are
collected in this volume are papers which
have been presented to American and Brit-
ish learned societies, and have been pub-
lished in their transactions and in scientific
journals. Changes have been made occa-
sionally in revision, but all additions of im-
portance are inclosed in brackets.
Annual Report of the Chief Signal-Offi-
cer of the Army for the Year 1885.
Washington : Government Printing-Of-
fice. Two vols. Pp. 609, 440.
The course of instruction pursued at
Fort Meyer has been enlarged and other-
wise improved, and now provides for theo-
retical and practical instruction in the du-
ties required of the Signal Corps in time of
war. Lectures by professors of meteorol-
ogy have been provided for ; and a course
of instruction in military surveying, field-
sketching, and topographical drawing has
been added. A text-book of meteorology
has been prepared by Professor William
Ferrcll, and forms the second part of the
present report. Professor Cleveland Abbe
has in preparation a treatise on the theory
of instruments used in meteorology. Trans-
lations of papers on temperatures and
storms by Ragone and Wild are appended ;
and translations have been made of impor-
