134
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
taut treatises on meteorology ; and other
translations, giving the most recent and
trustworthy results, are in course of execu-
tion. The special indications for particular
localities have been largely increased. Of
the general indications, from 826 to 873
per cent monthly were verified during the
year ; of the Pacific coast indications, from
76 - 7 to 923 per cent; of the cautionary off-
shore signals, 936 per cent for direction,
and 853 per cent for velocity; of the cold-
wave signals, 862 per cent. Four hundred
and eighty-nine stations were in operation
on the 30th of June, 1885.
The Fall of Maximilians Empire as seen
from a United States Gunboat. By
Seaton Schroeder, Lieutenant U. S. N.
New York: G. P. Putnams Sons. Pp.
130. Price, $1.
A letter-book and a log-book, says
the author, are the foundation upon which
the fabric of this narrative rests. Lieu-
tenant Schroeder was attached to the Unit-
ed States Steamer Tacony, Commander Roe,
which was dispatched to Mexican waters
in 1867, to protect American interests
in those regions while the people were rid-
ding themselves of the French and their
Austrian mock-emperor. He was, therefore,
more or less a personal observer of the
events that occurred from that time till the
intruders were finally expelled, and Maxi-
milian was executed ; and of all those trans-
actions in which foreign agents could par-
ticipate. Besides what he saw himself and
heard from his intercourse with the officers
of the fleets of other nations stationed in
the same regions, a scrutiny of various
executive documents, departmental files, and
volumes of diplomatic correspondence, has
elicited from those musty sources certain in-
teresting matters not presented in any his-
tory connected with the closing scenes of
Prince Maximilians short reign in Mexico.
The result of the whole is a modest, straight-
forward narrative which is a contribution
to history.
Agriculture in some of its Relations
with Chemistry. By F. n. Storer.
New York : Charles Scribners Sons.
Two vols. Pp. 529, 509.
This book, the author says, has been
written in the interest of persons fond of
rural affairs, and of students of agriculture.
It makes no special appeal to chemists or
to students of chemistry. It is based upon
lectures, suggestive rather than encyclope-
dic, which have been delivered annually by
the author at the Bussey Institution during
the past sixteen years (1871-1887). These
lectures, which have been many times al-
tered and revised, were addressed to small
classes of students of two distinct types
viz., young farmers, and sons of farmers,
familiar with the manual practice of agri-
cultural operations, who were desirous of
studying some of the sciences which bear
most immediately upon the art of farming ;
and city-bred men, often graduates of the
academic department of the university, who
intended to establish themselves upon farms,
or to occupy country-seats, or to become
landscape-gardeners. The lectures are upon
a considerable range of subjects, which may,
perhaps, be only partly covered by such
headings as the relations of soil, air, water,
and the plant ; tillage ; manures (including
the chemical action of the soil, the special
manures in their variety, animal and vege-
table refuse, green manuring, vegetable
mold, farm-yard manure, composts, night-
soil, etc.) ; rotation of crops; action of fire
on soils; irrigation; sewage; the disposing
of farms ; various crops ; and pastures. To
such inspection as we have been able to
give them, the practical value of the lect-
ures appears high as compared with most
other works of the class.
A quarterly journal is to be started at
an early date, to be entitled the American
Journal of Psychology, and to be under
the editorial control of G. Stanley Hall,
Ph. D., of Johns Hopkins University. It
will attempt to gather up and present, in
a compact, accessible form, the results of
scientific psychological research which are
of value and are now widely scattered, and
even have sometimes to be looked for in
other departments of science. It will con-
tain original contributions of a scientific
character, recording experiments and studies
in all branches of the subject ; papers of
importance from other journals ; and di-
gests and reviews, in which attempts will
be made to give a conspectus of the more
important psychological literature of the
three months preceding publication. Each
