LITERARY NOTICES.
135
number will contain from sixty to one hun-
dred pages, and the subscription price will
be $3 a year.
Talks with Socrates about Life. Trans-
lations from the Gorgias and the Repub-
lic of Plato. New York : Charle3 Scrib-
ners Sons. Pp. 173. Price, $1.
The character of the dialogues from
which these selections are taken is too well
known to require any special notice here.
The text is preceded by an introductory
analysis of the purpose of the Talks and
accounts of the interlocutors, and is followed
by annotations. The conversation is de-
scribed as relating to the perpetual contro-
versy between the material and the ideal,
and concerning the real original existence
of the moral law.
United States Commission of Fish and
Fisheries. Report of the Commissioner
for 1884. Washington: Government
Printing-Office. Pp. 1204.
Besides its usual routine work, the com-
mission directed a number of special under-
takings, all of which are fully described in
the report and the accompanying papers.
Among them were the prosecution of the
work on the pier, buildings, etc., at Woods
Holl; the construction of oyster-ponds at
Woods Holl and St. Jerome, and the in-
vestigation of the oyster-beds of Chesapeake
Bay ; the trip of the Albatross to the Carib-
bean Sea ; the investigation of the Florida
shad-fisheries, and the examination of the
oyster-beds in Long Island Sound ; the in-
vestigation of the fish-epidemic in Wiscon-
sin lakes; the collection of specimens of
cetaceans ; the occupation of stations at
Fort Washington on the Potomac, and at
Weldon, North Carolina; efforts to hatch
the codfish at Woods Holl ; the planting of
lobsters in Chesapeake Bay ; and the im-
portation of the blue carp and of the Euro-
pean trout. The Appendix, which forms
most of the volume, and is devoted to spe-
cial papers and reports in full, contains the
reports of steamers (the Albatross and Fish-
Hawk) and stations; fifteen papers of a
general or statistical character on the fish-
eries of this country and Northern Europe ;
five papers on fish-culture, including a long
one, by Carl Nicklas, on pond-culture; a
series of statements from persons immedi-
ately engaged on some results of carp-cult-
ure in the United States; and papers on
oyster-culture; five papers detailing scien-
tific investigation ; a statement by G. Brown
Goode, of the status of the commission in
1884, etc.
Recent Advances in Meteorology. By
William Ferrel. Washington: Gov-
ernment Printing-Office. Pp. 440.
This hand-book constitutes the second
volume of the report of the Signal Service
for 1885. It aims to present the principles
of meteorological science and their applica-
tions as they have been developed up to
this time, for the use of students, and espe-
cially for the purposes of a text-book to be
used in the Signal-Service school of instruc-
tion at Fort Meyer, Virginia. The effort
has been made to select, from the material
on hand, that which bears most usefully
upon practical meteorology. The mass of
matter was, however, found to be too large to
be compressed into a volume of the size thi3
was intended to be, and selection was neces-
sary. Plain clews are, nevertheless, given
to all facts and observations not directly
discussed in the book, by references to the
works and papers in which they are treated
of. Many researches and problems are sub-
jected to mathematical treatment; and an
important feature of the work is found in
the formulae and tables which are so fre-
quently needed in meteorological computa-
tions and discussions of observations, with
examples for their application.
PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED.
Analyses and Commercial Values of Commercial
Fertilizers and Chemicals. Atlanta, Ga. Pp. 13.
Nelson, N. O. Profit-Sharing. St. Louis, Mo.
Pp. 40.
The Annual Index to Periodicals for 1SS6. Lon-
don : Trubner Co. Pp. 27.
Annual Report of the California State Mineralo-
gist for 1836. Two vols. Sacramento, CaL Pp.
141 and 222.
Report of the Alabama Weather Service. Au-
burn, Ala. Pp. 7.
Report of tho Connecticut Agricultural Experi-
ment Station for 18S6. New Haven : Tuttle, More-
house Taylor. Pp. 168.
Report of the Massachusetts Agricultural Ex-
periment Station. Boston : Wright Potter Print-
ing Company. Pp. 136.
Putnam, Samuel P. The New God. New York:
Truth-Seeker Company. Pp. 31.
Brinton, Daniel G.. M. D.. Philadelphia. Critical
Remarks on the Editions of Diego de Landa s Writ-
ings. Pp. 8.
