POPULAR MISCELLANY.
137
Growers Association the plans of a fruit-
evaporator, on condition that they should
be published and furnished free to all ap-
plicants. This is simply a fraudulent scheme
to secure free advertising, and of which
The Popular Science Monthly has fallen a
victim, unless the matter referred to in its
columns was paid matter.* The scheme
was tried on the agricultural press of the
country last year, but with only partial suc-
cess, as the fraud was soon detected and
exposed. They now seem to have tackled
the periodicals. I inclose a page from the
Farmers Review of July 28, 1886, which
fully exposes the whole fraud. For any
further information which you may desire,
I refer you to the Country Gentleman,
Rural New-Yorker, Ohio Farmer, or
any other reputable agricultural journal.
Trusting that the next issue will contain
such reference to this pretended association
as shall counteract any advantage the par-
ties might otherwise derive from the publi-
cation in the April issue, and will also put
other periodicals on their guard,
I remain, very truly, yours,
0. C. Gibbs,
Editor Farmers Review.
Chicago, March 29, 18S7.
It appears, from papers which Mr. Gibbs
sends with his letter, that the object of the
recommendation is to induce parties to write
to the address given for the plans and draw-
ings promised, when they are informed that
another and still better evaporator has been
put upon the market, which will be fur-
nished them at a price less than the cost of
making the Arnold Evaporator. The
pretended society consists of persons inter-
ested in the sale of the new evaporator ;
and the names of persons of known repute,
which are enrolled in its list of members,
appear to have been borrowed without the
owners consent. So, if any of our friends
have intended to inquire about the Arnold
Evaporator on the strength of our notice,
we only have to say to them, Dont. To
those who may already have been misled by
our item we offer our apologies.
The New York Skin and (Dancer Hospi-
tal. The New York Skin and Cancer Hos-
pital was incorporated in November, 1882,
and now has a city hospital building in East
Thirty-fourth Street, at which more than four
* Nothing of this kind has ever appeared in The
Popular Science Monthly outside of the regular
and avowed advertising pages, under any guise.
Editor.
thousand cases have been treated by a staff
of physicians of recognized competence, and
a country branch of cottage pavilions at
Fordham Heights, near High Bridge; the
two properties being valued at about $80,-
000. The pavilions of the country branch
are projected in recognition of the fact
which has been abundantly verified in army
practice, that such structures, light, airy,
and admitting only a small number of pa-
tients at a time, are free from the objections
which attach to the solid buildings of city
hospitals with their crowds of patients oc-
cupying the same quarters year after year.
They are much more easily and for a longer
time kept free from the infectious qualities
likely to attach to a permanent hospital, and
the patient is relatively secure from the peril
from poisonous influences which he is sure
to incur in a city hospital. Being slight and
cheap, they can be removed if they finally
become infected, and their places supplied
by new, clean, and entirely wholesome cot-
tages. The estate at Fordham comprises
sixteen acres of land in an elevated situa-
tion that commands fine views of the Hud-
son River and Long Island Sound. It will
be occupied with cottages as they are needed,
and the means are supplied for building
them. Two have been built, and are in
use, and four others are under way. The
experiences of the past year, we learn from
the recently published fourth annual report,
have already indicated the wisdom of the
new undertaking. The favorable effects
of fresh air, sunshine, quiet, and isolation
upon the cancer-patients is shown in the
prolongation of life, and in the comfort and
helpful care it is possible to administer.
Upon the record of what they have accom-
plished, the managers of the institution
invite gifts for building other cottages, to
be named by the giver, costing from $2,000
to $5,000 each ; and endowments for beds,
of $3,000 during the life of the donor, and
$5,000 in perpetuity. The total cost of
hospital accommodations for one hundred
patients on this plan of building is estimated
at $50,000, which, with $50,000 paid for
the property, will make the price $1,000 a
bed a very small sum, compared with the
cost in some other hospitals. The mana-
gers are aided in the care of patients by the
Ladies Auxiliary Board, by whose exer-
