THE NATURAL VERSUS THE SUPERNATURAL. 5
The mind that has fully opened to this perception no longer di-
vorces its faith from its reason, no longer rests in the idea of a dual-
ism in creation or opposition between God and the world, and can not
feel at ease until its religious belief is in harmony with its natural
knowledge. The two must not be at war. What we hope for, what
we aspire to, must be consistent with what we know. Faith and sci-
ence must, indeed, go hand in hand. The conception of religion as a
miraculous scheme for mans redemption interpolated into history,
Gods original design with reference to man having miscarried, is en-
tirely undermined and overthrown by the perception of the unity and
consistency of creation as revealed by science.
Who does not see that it adds vastly to the credibility of a doc-
trine or theory to find that it fits in with other things, that it is not an
exception or an isolated circumstance, but is in a line with facts and
principles of the truth of which we are already assured ? Suppose the
theory of Christianity, as popularly held, had something like the breadth
of application, or the same warrant and basis in the constitution of
things as has, say, the theory of evolution or the doctrine of the con-
servation of energy ; or suppose the dogma of vicarious atonement
pleased the mind and harmonized with our sense of the fitness of crea-
tion like the modern doctrine of embryology, namely, that embryology
is a repetition of past history, that every animal in its development
from the egg assumes successively, though briefly, all the forms through
which its ancestors have come in the course of the long stretch of geo-
logical ages, should we not all at once accept it as true ? Would there
ever have been any doubters and skeptics ? I think not. It is be-
cause these things have no such warrant and basis, no such agreement
with our perception of the order of the world, that doubters and skep-
tics exist ; it is because they break completely with all the rest of our
knowledge of creation.
There is a very marked activity in the theological mind of to-day
which has for its end the bridging over of the gulf which exists be-
tween natural and what is called revealed truth. Half a dozen
recent works might be named of which this is the principal aim.
That eloquent preacher, Frederick W. Robinson, sought in one of his
sermons to give a natural basis to the dogma of vicarious sacrifice,
perhaps the most incredible dogma in the popular creed. See, says
the eloquent divine, how the mineral must decay before the vegetable
can grow ; how the vegetable must die before the animal can live ;
how the animal must perish before we can have roast beef for our din-
ner. The dove is stricken down by the hawk, the deer by the lion, the
winged fish falls into the jaws of the dolphin. It is the solemn law
of vicarious sacrifice again ; and so still higher. The anguish of
the mother is the condition of the childs life. Every civilization is
founded upon the labors and sufferings of those who went before.
When this law of self-sacrifice is consciously obeyed it becomes the
