i 3 8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tions a sufficient fund has so far been kept
in hand to provide for the treatment of
every patient who ha3 made application;
so that none have been turned away on ac-
count of inability to pay the cost of treat-
ment. While it is not intended to make
the institution a charity, it is desired to
keep this feature up. A prize fund has
been started to encourage the research for
new and effective remedies and methods of
treatment for cancer.
The American Society of Naturalists.
The meeting of the Society of Naturalists,
which is composed of persons who regularly
devote a considerable portion of their time
to the advancement of natural history, was
held in Philadelphia in the latter part of
December, 188G. A prominent place is
given in the proceedings of the society to
the discussion of questions relative to meth-
ods of investigation and of instruction. At
the present meeting the discussion on meth-
ods in teaching was led by Professors H. S.
Williams and Davis, of Harvard College, on
geology and geological investigation ; Far-
low, on botany ; II. N. Martin, on collegiate
teaching of biology ; and Whitman, on the
proper position of biological investigation
in the university. It is contemplated to
discuss the subject of science in the schools
at next years meeting.
Why English Trade is declining. The
latest English Blue-Book exposes the
fact that English trade is falling behind in
most countries, while German commercial
interests are gaining the ascendant. The
reasons for the change are somewhat com-
plicated, but the principal ones may be
summed up in the assertion that English
merchants have lapsed into a kind of indif-
ference about pleasing and accommodating
their customers, while the Germans are tak-
ing great pains to ascertain and meet their
wants. The reasons assigned for the supe-
rior vigor of German trade in Italy are a
higher standard of technical education,
greater activity in the employment of com-
mercial travelers speaking Italian, greater
attention paid to the wants of the Italian
market, and greater facilities for delivery
and for payment. In Bulgaria, some Jew
from Vienna comes every week offering
something wanted. The remark applies to
several countries. Ask an English manu-
facturer to alter the shape of an article to
meet the requirements of foreign markets,
. . . he generally refuses. The German
manufacturer, on the other hand, has no
prejudices ; if he find that an article of a
certain shape commando a ready sale in any
particular country, he makes it, however
foreign it may be to his own tastes and
wants. So it is in Greece, Roumania, Ser-
via, Turkey, Spain, and South America.
The lesson is drawn from these facts by
the Spectator that the English manu-
facturer must display more intelligence,
more adaptiveness, more energy, more sym-
pathy, if he is to hold his own against the
increasing rivalry of the highly educated,
active, and expanding German. Ilis com-
mercial education must be improved. Boys
must be taught the modern languages, and
be given a speaking as well as a grammati-
cal acquaintance with the tongues of the
peoples with whom they are to stand in com-
mercial relations. But these and other
branches of commercial importance still hold
only a subordinate place in English second-
ary schools, while men of commerce and
manufacture are trained almost entirely in
subjects rather suitable for the professions.
Sewerage and Typhoid Fever. The
Baltimore American some time ago ques-
tioned the value of a system of sewerage in
promoting the health of a city, and cited, in
justification of its doubt, the case of Balti-
more, a healthy city without a system, as
opposed to Brooklyn and Boston, where the
systems of sewerage are extensive, and yet
diphtheria and scarlet fever and other like
diseases are more prevalent than in Balti-
more. The London Sanitary World an-
swers these doubts by citations from the re-
port of Mr. Erwin F. Smith to the Michigan
Sanitary Convention on The Influence of
Sewerage and Water-Supply on the Death-
Rate in Cities. This paper shows, almost
decisively, that the introduction of sewerage
and water-supply jointly has had a marked
influence in reducing the mortality from ty-
phoid fever, at least. The difficult point is
to ascertain the influence of the sewerage
alone. The introduction of a pure water-
supply is unquestionably an important ele-
