140
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cold current is of least strength, as in Au-
gust and September, the Gulf Stream comes
within ten miles of Barnegat ; at other times
it is distant one hundred and twenty miles,
changing with the amount of the cold cur-
rent and of the wind. If we had not the
cold wall between our shores and the Gulf
Stream, it is fair to presume that we should
have a less stormy coast, as the juxtaposi-
tion of these two currents with their differ-
ence in temperature must from that circum-
stance tend to an unstable condition of at-
mospheric equilibrium. Our cold northwest
winds would then sweep to the north of
us, and become westerly and southwesterly
winds.
Production of Coke in the United States.
It is shown by the report of Mr. Joseph
D. Weeks, of Pittsburg, to the United
States Geological Survey, covering the pe-
riod from 1880 to 1885, inclusive, that
Pennsylvania stands first in the rank of
coke - producing States, Alabama second,
West Virginia third, and Tennessee fourth.
The largest coke-producing locality in the
country is the Connellsville region of Penn-
sylvania, in which were made 3,096,012 of
the 5,106,696 tons, or 606 per cent of the
coke produced in the United States in 1885.
The second largest producing district is
what is called the Irwin-Latrobe district,
which lies along the Pennsylvania Railroad,
from Larimer to Blairsville, and is, in part,
the northerly extension of the Connellsville
coking-field. The number of establishments
has slightly decreased, but the number of
ovens was increased from 1S84 to 1885 by
2 - 8 per cent, and was in the latter year
20,116. While the production of 1885 in-
creased over that of 1884, it was not as
great as in 1883. There has been no in-
crease in the value per ton of coke for three
years.
How Ilarbor - Channels may be kept
clear. Professor Lewis M. Haupt addressed
the Section of Mechanical Science and En-
gineering of the American Association on
River and Harbor Improvements, with
Special Reference to the New York En-
trance. He maintained that large and
weighty structures intended to regulate cur-
rents, which rest or depend upon sandy or
alluvial bottoms, violate the fundamental
requirements that they shall not oppose the
ingress of the tide or injuriously modify the
currents. Dikes and jetties also are below
the plane of action of waves of translation ;
while dependent upon their mass they are
not entirely coherent ; and they are wasteful,
and result in serious modifications in the
regimen of rivers and harbors. He suggested
as a preferable system, one consisting of
deflectors intended to be attached to buoys
or floats, anchored to heavy moorings, and
guyed in place on the ebb side by wire
cables or chains. This system is composed
of units or parts readily assembled, which
occupy little space, yet control the currents,
and deflect them upon the obstruction to be
removed. By it the prism of water passing
through a given section can be increased
indefinitely, while the aperture of discharge
may be diminished, thus producing any re-
quired velocity. Stress was laid upon the
importance of applying a method which
should be limited to the removal of so
much of the crest of the bar as would secure
the requisite channel, and no more.
The Amazons Valley. Mr. James W.
Wells, in an address before the Royal Geo-
graphical Society, on The Physical Geog-
raphy of Brazil, divides the rivers of that
country into three great systems : the basin
of the Amazons, including also the Tocan-
tins and Araguaya ; the basin of the Plate
River, and the many distinct and separate
rivers draining into the Atlantic. The Ama-
zons basin is divided into the bottle-shaped,
low-lying forest of the upper valley, 1,300
miles long by 800 miles broad, and its cir-
cumscribing elevated table-lands, which, near
Obidos and Santarcm, approach close to the
banks of the main river, and constitute the
neck of the bottle-shaped area. Throughout
the length of this river, east and west of
Obidos, the adjoining land is so low and flat
that we have in many cases rather a scries
of more or less parallel streams than one
great, clearly defined stream. It is possible
to go in a canoe up the whole of the valley
in these lateral channels, and also to pass
through the deep forest by natural canals,
from one tributary to another, without once
entering the main river. It is a singular
feature of the Amazons Valley, considering
