POPULAR MISCELLANY.
141
the mass of the water and its equatorial
situation, that it is so healthy as it really
is. Some of the tributaries of the Amazon
are very insalubrious, and life anywhere in
them, in any condition, is made miserable
by insect pests ; yet Mr. Wells has never
met any one, who has had an experience of
life on the Amazons, who has not become
passionately fond of it. The glorious vege-
tation, the life free from conventionalities,
and the brilliant sunlight and warmth, tem-
pered by fresh breezes, contain some of the
elements of making a paradise, and nu-
merous lines of river-steamers afford means
of convenient communication. The vegeta-
tion of this great valley is essentially different
from that of the other two riverine systems.
The rich, low-lying lands, subject to annual
inundations, frequent rains all the year, and
the continual heat, produce a vast wealth
of dense tropical verdure, and a forest area
greater than can be found in any other part
of the globe, intersected by thousands of
miles of immense navigable streams, give
the region a unique character. Among the
valuable vegetable productions, the India-
rubber tree figures pre-eminently. It exists
in such vast numbers, and the collection
of the juice is so very lucrative, that it has
attracted to even the most remote rivers
thousands of adventurous Brazilians from
the adjoining provinces, and it is doing for
the Amazons what gold did for Australia
and California.
The Microbe of Malaria. Dr. George
M. Sternberg has communicated to the Sci-
entific Association of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity an account of the confirmation, by
his own observation, of Laverans discovery
of the germ, or micro-organism, of malaria.
Laveran found this microbe in the shape of
an amoeboid parasite, in the blood of patients
suffering from fever ; and also observed that
the germs disappeared from the blood when
quinine was administered in effective doses.
His observations were confirmed by Richard,
in 1882, and by Marchiafara and Celli from
their researches in the Santo Spirito Hos-
pital of Rome. During a recent visit to
Rome, Dr. Sternberg accompanied these
gentlemen to the Santo Spirito Hospital,
where a most satisfactory demonstration
was made to him of the presence and amoe-
boid movements of the parasite, in blood
drawn from the finger of a patient in the
first stage of a malarial paroxysm. Marchia-
fara and Celli have induced types of inter-
mittent fever, in previously healthy per-
sons, by injecting into the circulation a
small quantity of blood drawn from a mala-
rial patient during his fever. The presence
of the parasite in the injected blood was
demonstrated, and it was found again in the
blood of the persons subjected to the experi-
ment during the induced intermittent parox-
ysms. These paroxysms were arrested, and
the parasite disappeared from the blood
when quinine was administered.
Systematic Observations of the Aurora
Borealis. No country is more favorably
situated for the systematic observation of
the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism
and the aurora borealis than Norway. Ex-
tending from the fifty-eighth to the seventy-
first degree of latitude, it reaches farther
north than any other inhabited land, and
lies nearer to the center of magnetic disturb-
ances than any other state of Europe. The
maximum zone of the northern lights hangs
over the northern and northwestern part of
the land. The northern and southern dis-
tricts are connected by numerous telegraph
lines and through the telephone exchanges
of Drontheim and Bergen. Sophus Trom-
holt began to organize a system of investi-
gations in 18*78, and from September of
that year to April, 1879, he recorded 839
observations of 154 northern lights. His
idea met with favor, and the method of
concerted observation has spread since that
time to Sweden, Denmark, and Finland,
England, Greenland, and Iceland. The ob-
servations of the winter of 1879-80 were
much more extensive than those of the pre-
vious winter, being 1,600 in number of 249
auroras at 357 stations. In the winter of
1880-81, 5,200 observations were made of
about 300 auroras, at 675 stations ; and in
the winter of 18S2-83, 1,500 persons in
the North European countries participated
in the work. Notices are now regularly
transmitted from fifty Swedish and Nor-
wegian telegraphic stations of all electrical
disturbances, with exact minutes of time,
direction, etc. ; observations that are of the
more importance, because not a day passes
