142
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that something of the kind does not occur
somewhere in Norway. Mr. Tromholt in-
tends to publish the years results of these
observations cartographically, with notices
of associated meteorological phenomena.
For the complete registration of the tele-
graphic perturbations, he has constructed
an apparatus which graphically represents
the time of their happening, their strength,
and direction, which is connected during the
night with a north and south telegraph line
1,400 kilometres long, while during the day
telephones are used. This enterprise is as-
suming an extent which places its effective
control beyond the power of one man. Mr.
Tromholt therefore proposes that the Gov-
ernment establish an institute at Drontheim
to become the central station of the world,
to which all observers on land and sea shall
transmit their reports.
Importance of the Plumbers Art. A
plea for a higher recognition of the plumber
has been made by Mr. William Ilalley in an
address before the Ohio State Sanitary As-
sociation. Of the various craftsmen who
assist in constructing dwellings, there is not
one, perhaps, whose position in the light of
sanitary science is more important and re-
sponsible than his. In days gone by he
was considered a mere worker in lead to
supply the simple wants of his employer, as
ignorant as himself of the physical laws of
his occupation ; but now his work assumes
the dignity of a sanitarians. Yet there are
few vocations in which skillful work is so
little appreciated as that of plumbing. Peo-
ple are not interested in the work because
it has no reference to ornamentation, and
is almost wholly out of sight. A great deal
depends on the plumbing. If it is perfect,
the house is healthy ; if imperfect, an un-
healthy habitation is the result. It is easy
to see that it is the most important feature
of a house, to which may be added all the
convenience, beauty, and polish of a palace.
But first of all, stamp it with the character
of health by sanitary plumbing. Even with
the best devices it is impossible to prevent
sewer-gas at times. There are many acci-
dents by which plumbing-work will become
crippled and allow gas to escape. Hence it
is advisable to exercise extreme care about
its location and quantity. Unfortunately,
for the plumber and for sanitary effect, the
architect is too apt to ignore plumbing and
give undue attention to other matters which
serve better to display his aesthetic concep-
tion. House-drainage is made secondary
and subservient to convenience and display.
At the last moment it is remembered that
the house must be drained, and plumbing
specifications arc made to fill in the cubby-
holes. That is why so much plumbing is
worse than useless.
Foliage-Trees in Colors. The Satur-
day Review, treating of plantations of
trees, dwells upon the effects that may be
produced by massing those having foliage
of various hues. While every garden has
its ribbon-beds of herbaceous foliage
plants, the arrangement of trees to produce
similar effects is still an undeveloped art.
What can be done in this line, it says, is
well illustrated at Waddeson Manor, Baron
Ferdinand dc Rothschilds place in Buck-
inghamshire. Nothing can be more beau-
tiful than the treatment of foliage trees and
shrubs in his ground. It is absolute paint-
ing, wherein the pigments are represented
by golden yews (Taxus baccata varicgata and
Taxus baccata foliis variegatis), golden eld-
ers, double-yellow gorse, golden broom, pur-
pie barberry, purple hazel, copper beech,
purple sycamore (which varies from green
and gray to purple with every passing
breeze), variegated maple introducing a
lighter tinge, which is carried on by a mass
of sea-buckthorn, whose pale, frosted silver
is relieved by the deep, velvety green of a
background of Austrian pine. What enn-
not be done when such colors as these lie
ready to hand, not to mention all the glau-
cous trees, whose leaves arc often white,
covered with a silky down or powdered
over with a fine dust like that on a butter-
flys wing ? The American maples, and
especially the swamp-maple with its autumn
glory of foliage, have made the Canadian
fall or autumn a season and object of
pilgrimage from all parts of the world.
The swamp maple . . . has other merit9
besides that of its autumn gold. In early
spring the leafless branches arc clothed with
clusters of deep-red flowers, the young grow-
ing shoots are reddish-brown in color, and
the leaves a bright, shining green above
