NOTES.
43
and glaucous underneath. The white or
silver maple is also named as a tree pro-
ducing effects nearly similar.
NOTES.
Professor Angelo Heilprin has de-
scribed, in the Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia, a species of cat-fish from
Lake Okeechobee, Florida, which differs in
several well-marked characters from other
described North American species. It is
most nearly related to the cat-fish of the
lakes, and greatly resembles it. The largest
specimen caught was about twenty inches
long. The name Iclnlurus Okeechobensis is
proposed for it.
Dr. Daniel Wilson, of University Col-
lege, Toronto, said in a paper read before
the Royal Society of Canada, that he had
concluded, after long research and discus-
sion, that left-handedness is due to an ex-
ceptional development of the right hemi-
sphere of the brain. Being left-handed him-
self, he hopes that when he is dead his own
biain may be examined for the help it may
give in settling this question.
Mr. J. II. Kerry Nichols, who is well
acquainted with the ground, supposes that
the volcanic outbreak of June, 1886, in New
Zealand, was caused by the subsidence of
the crust and the sinter accumulated upon it
into the vast caverns which had been exca-
vated beneath by the solvent action of the
water that brought the deposits to the top.
The whole being in a superheated condition
and favorable to strong chemical action, a
vast explosion was the immediate result.
Dr. Klein recently exhibited to the Roy-
al Society under the microscope, in illustra-
tion of a paper on the etiology of scarlet
fever, gelatine cultivations of the Micrococ-
cus scarlatina, an organism which has been
proved to be present in a certain disease of
the cow and in human scarlatina.
The programme of the coming exposition
at Ekaterinburg, Russia, promises a very
interesting representation of the produc-
tions and life of Siberia and the Ural. We
are informed that the best time to visit the
exhibition will be during July and the first
half of August. A special committee will
attend at the railway-station to receive vis-
itors and give them such information as will
make their expenses as light as possible.
Mr. W. A. Carter, in a recent lecture on
Marine and Fresh-Water Fishes, said that
fish have the power of influencing one an-
other by sounds and action. He had ob-
served a shoal of carp following the lead
of a single one which conducted them to a
quantity of food at a considerable distance
away. He had also n oticed that certain fresh-
water fish, such as trout, were subservient
to a ruler, which might be seen swimming
at, the head of his tribe. The same was
possibly the case with some marine forms,
like the herring and bass.
A new and complete edition of the works
of Galileo is to be published, in twenty quar-
to volumes of five hundred pages each, at
the expense of the Italian Government.
The sectional presidents of the Manches-
ter meeting of the British Association, to
be held August 31st, will be: Section A,
Mathematics and Physics, Sir Robert S.
Ball ; B, Chemistry, Dr. Edward Schunk ;
C, Geology, Dr. Henry Woodward ; D, Bi-
ology, Professor A. Newton ; E, Geography,
General Sir Charles Warren ; F, Economic
Science, Dr. Robert Giffen ; G, Chemical
Science, Professor Osborne Reynolds. The
President of the Anthropological Section
has not been designated. Professor H. B.
Dixon will deliver a public lecture on The
Rate of Explosions in Gases. The lect-
ure to the working-classes will be given by
Professor George Forbes.
The stories, once so current, that seeds
taken from ancient Egyptian tombs have
grown, are believed, if not demonstrably
false, to lack the guarantees of truth that
tales of the kind should require ; and noth-
ing as to the vitality of seeds can be built
upon them. But Dr. Lindley tells of rasp-
berries that were raised in the gardens of
the Horticultural Society from seed taken
from the stomach of a man who was buried
in a barrow near the time of the Empe-
ror Hadrian ; and Professor Duchartre and
others tell of seeds, whose identity is prop-
erly vouched for, taken from under the
foundations of an old house in Paris, prob-
ably from the original soil of the island,
and therefore coeval with the city, which
germinated and proved to be seeds of Juncus
bufonius, an indigenous plant of that soil.
In dealing with a cellar in springy ground,
the first thing to be done to make it dry,
says The Sanitary Engineer, is to pro-
vide some chance for the water to run away
before getting into the cellar. This may be
done by laying a two-inch tile drain-pipe in
a trench dug all around the foundation out-
side of the walls, and from one foot to two
feet below the cellar floor. Put this pipe
together without mortar, and cover it with
cobble-stones to keep out the dirt and sand.
If it is not practicable to lay the drain out-
side, it may be laid inside of the cellar-walls,
directly in the cellar-floor ; but the opera-
tion of such a drain is less efficient. The
back-filling of the cellar-walls should be
porous enough to allow the water to go di-
rectly into the drain.
