144
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Mr. G. TnoMANN, of the United States
Brewers Association, has published a pam-
phlet to show that beer is a perfectly whole-
some drink. In support of his assertion,
he alleges that while brewers drink more
beer, and drink it more constantly, than
other people, the average death-rate among
them is lower by forty per cent than that
of corresponding urban populations ; that
their health is unusually good, with compar-
ative freedom from diseases of the kidneys
and liver ; and that on the average they
live longer and preserve their physical ener-
gies better than the average workmen of
the United States. Mr. Thomann produces
doctors certificates showing a mean annual
death-rate of 7*5 per 1,000 among 960 brew-
ery-workmen, against 12 5 of urban popula-
tion ; and he talks of men drinking an aver-
age of ten pints of beer a day.
A new process in manufacturing iron has
been tested at Pittsburg and at Southwick,
Staffordshire, England, in which the metal
undergoes a chemical change that is claimed
to greatly improve the quality and test of
the iron to whatever class it may belong.
The new process is said to facilitate the
running of the metal, and also increase its
Strength.
Mr. Rtsetn, in a recent letter, has ex-
pressed his opinion of railways in a brief
but most energetic manner. He says :
They are to me the loath somest form of
deviltry now extant, animated and deliber-
ate earthquakes, destructive of ail wise so-
cial habit, or possible natural beauty, car-
riages of damned souls on the ridges of their
own graves
t
A limited edition of the first volume of
a series of selected morphological mono-
graphs, by members of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, is about to be issued from the pub-
lication agency of that institution. The
series will be under the editorial direction
of Professor W. K. Brooks. The coming
number will contain three papers by Pro-
fessor Brooks, and one paper by E. B. Wil-
son. Only one hundred copies in all of the
volume will be issued.
A bulletin of miscellaneous informa-
tion has been started at the Royal Gar-
dens, Kew, to be published occasionally,
and contain notes on economic products
and plants to which the attention of the
staff of the gardens may have been drawn,
or which may have been made the subject
of particular study there.
Mr. John Murray, of the Challenger
Expedition, recently said, in the Royal So-
ciety of Edinburgh, that ho questioned
whether any country in the world, taking
its size into consideration, could show a
better record of scientific work or a
greater mass of scientific literature than
Scotland during the past ten or twenty
years.
Medals and prizes are to be given this
year, by the Royal Society of New South
Wales, for the best communications em-
bodying fruits of original research on the
silver-ore deposits of New South Wales ;
on the origin and mode of occurrence of
gold-bearing veins and of the associated
minerals ; on the influence of the Austra-
lian climate in producing modifications of
diseases ; and on the infusoria peculiar to
Australia.
According to a paper read by Mr. John
Murray, before the Royal Society of Edin-
burgh, 2,243 cubic miles of rain fall annu-
ally on areas with inland drainage. Such
areas extend to 11,486,350 square miles.
The land draining directly to the ocean
has an area of 44,211,000 square miles, of
which 38,829,750 square miles have ten
inches or more of rainfall. The mean dis-
charge from this area into the ocean is
6,569 cubic miles annually. The total
weight of substances carried by this
means to the ocean is more than 5,000,-
000,000 tons each year.
OBITUARY NOTES.
Captain James B. Eads, the distinguished
engineer, died of pneumonia at Nassau, New
Providence, March 8th. He was widely
known as the constructor of several works
of great merit. Among them were the first
eight ironclad gunboats owned and used by
the United States, the bridge over the Mis-
sissippi River at St. Louis, and the system
of jetties for deepening the channel of the
mouth of the Mississippi. He had project-
ed a plan for a marine railway across the
Isthmus of Tehuantepec for carrying vessels
from one ocean to the other, and was elab-
orating its details and seeking means for
executing it at the time of his death. A
sketch of his life and works, revised by
himself, with a portrait, was published in
The Popular Science Monthly for Feb-
ruary, 1886.
Dr. Gustav Heinrioh KiRcnExr-AUER,
first Burgomaster of Hamburg, and an emi-
nent naturalist, is dead.
Dr. Julius Luttiuh, astronomer, and
Professor Jean Louis Trasenster, both died
on the 3d of January, 1887.
Mr. Alexander Borodin, Professor of
Chemistry in the Medico-Surgical Academy
at St. Petersburg, and an eminent musical
composer, died February 27th.
