ARE RAILROADS PUBLIC ENEMIES? 147
holders, and depreciating their own securities ; and should, since no
other offers, the railway companies themselves propose becoming their
own reformers, and so evolve the idea of pool commissions whereby
each company might yet live and enjoy the franchises the people had
given it when this new aspect presents itself, we say Mr. Hudson
shifts back to his original brief, and finds the railways once again the
rampant enemies of his corraled clients the people. But on taking up
his brief our unfortunate Mr. Hudson finds himself once more out of
court, confronted with the terrible truth that under the pool the rates
have not only been raised but have actually fallen below a legalized
minimum, and his occupation and standpoint again departed. A com-
parison of tariffs before and after the local pool systems existing at the
passage of the Interstate Commerce bill of course can not be attempted
here. But it will be found to correspond everywhere throughout the
country to the following figures taken at random. (Of course the tar-
iffs need not be compared with figures existing at the inception of rail-
roads, or at intervals of ten years since, because everybody knows
who knows anything, or who reflects upon the subject at all that the
history of the railway has been the history of the tariff reductions
upon every commodity, every product of human manufacture or yield
of Nature) :
HAUL.
Rates before estab-
lishment of pool
(per 100 lbs.).
Eates after estab-
lishment of pool
(per 100 lbs.).
Omaha to Kansas City or Denver, first class
$2.40
1.40
3.80
3.00
.30
.28
$2.10
1.15
Omaha to Salt Lake City, first clas3
3.00
1.55
*New York to Pittsburg, fourth class
.20
.17
All the above being non-competitive or short-haul points (since
Kansas City, Denver, and Salt Lake can only be reached from Omaha
or the points Pittsburg or Altoona can only be reached from New York
by land transportation), there was no legal, certainly no natural, rea-
son (according to Mr. Hudson) why the mere technical fact of a pool
should have lowered rates. If, as Mr. Hudson asserts, railways are sel-
fish, grasping, lawless monopolies, enemies of the republic and devourers
of the people, there was, on the contrary, every reason why, when three
or four railways pooled their issues and monopolized all the possible
rail connections to that point, rates should be as high as,, if not higher
than before. Certainly there is no reason, legal or natural, why, to a
point like Altoona, among the mountains, to which but a single through
line has had the courage or the charter to climb (and that one, accord-
ing to Mr. Hudson, one of the most grasping of all his category of
grasping monopolies), freights should be lower after the organization
* I take these last two quotations from Mr. E. P. Alexanders Railway Practice ; its
Principles and Suggested Reforms reviewed, New York, 1887.
