148 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of a pool than they were before. The explanation appears, however,
as the demonstration proceeds and the technical meaning of the terms
long haul and short haul becomes self-evident. Clearly the points
we have named become short hauls as against (for example) San
Francisco, the haul to which is therefore called a long haul. Now,
in establishing rates to San Francisco, certainly it is very apparent
that the railroads which have pooled to Salt Lake City or Denver must
take a new factor into the account, for San Francisco has a most excel-
lent water communication with the entire world, and is perfectly inde-
pendent of railways, monopolies or otherwise. In other words, it is
Nature and not railroad corporations that have discriminated against
Denver and Salt Lake City, and in favor of San Francisco, by making
it a commercial fact that (since water is cheaper than land transporta-
tion) San Francisco is actually nearer New York than Denver or Salt
Lake City. The fact is that so long as railway rates are regulated by
geography however distorted they may appear to the non-expert, the
substitution of arbitrary for geographical rules in framing a tariff
would result in rendering them still more distorted and uneven. And
if the railways, pooled or unpooled, charge proportionately less rates
to San Francisco than to Denver or Altoona or Salt Lake City, the
higher power that has ordered it is the irresistible power of Nature.
To what lengths of invective and diatribe Mr. Hudson and his kind
would proceed, did Nature and geography pool with the railways,
it is amusing to speculate ; but the fact which oppresses the railway
company at present, and imposes upon it the necessity of accommo-
dating its rates to Nature (since Nature will not accommodate herself
to the railways) is that no pool can be made with the ocean, which
charges nothing to the sons of men who plow its bosom with their
ships, and which is at no expense to keep itself in repair. For, let it
be always remembered, in discussing these and like questions, a railroad
is not, per se, a means of transportation. Such a definition is very far
from being definitive by exclusion, as a definition ought to be. A rail-
road is a prepared and exclusive highway for traffic by means of the
motive power of the locomotive engine, and is available only where
locomotives can be used. There are still the foot-path, the bridle-path,
the wagon-rOad, the ocean, the river, the canal, with which it must
compete. There is still the inclined plane, with which (for the down-
grade, certainly) no locomotive even can compete. And so, even were
railway companies the terrible affairs, the grasping monopolies, the
enemies of the human race, which Mr. Hudson asserts them, they are
only so because the human race uses them, if it uses them at all, in
preference to other means of transportation. Should Mr. Hudson in-
duce his clientele to discontinue their preference, the fact might be dif-
ferent ; but in order to accept Mr. Hudsons conclusion (which, be it
remarked again, is not the rule of the Interstate Commerce Law) that
railways are public enemies because their tariffs sometimes are greater
