ARE RAILROADS PUBLIC ENEMIES? 149
for the long than the short haul, we must primarily assume the two
propositions : first, that the public are not at liberty to use any other
means of transportation than the railways ; and, second, that there is no
such thing as competition. Does Mr. Hudson desire us to accept these
propositions, or think that he has established them ? What else does
he mean by such a paragraph as this (page 40) : While the force of
competition causes the railways to accept moderate or even narrow
profits on the Western grain-traffic, the absence of that force allows
them to collect what, by comparison, are shown to be exorbitant profits
on the grain shipped by the farmers of the Eastern or Middle States.
As a matter of fact, the figures actually show that it is combination,
not competition, which has reduced the rates charged by the enemies
of the republic and forced them to accept moderate or even narrow
profits. Surely, Mr. Hudson does not wish us to believe him guilty
of catering to the general public by misstatements of fact in cases
with which, from the least apparent foothold for grievance, he assumes
such fluent familiarity. And yet, what else can we conclude from
his retort to Mr. Finks calm statement before the Senate Committee
on Railroads in 1883, to the general effect above stated (viz., that
geographical and not arbitrary conditions controlled pool-rates) in
which he happens to mention Winona (using that town, as we have
used Denver or Salt Lake City above, as an instance of a short-haul
point) ? Why, says Mr. Hudson (page 161), the road, if built for
Winona, should have stopped at that place and given its exclusive
attention to the transportation interests of that town. And, if this
could be exceeded in artless incapacity, he meets Mr. Alexanders
statement (page 162) that no railway has ever raised its local charges
to meet the loss caused by lowering its through rates, by the fol-
lowing : When railway rates have been reduced fifty per cent on
through traffic within the last ten years, and local rates have virtually
remained unchanged, the burden of the local shippers has been prac-
tically doubled, no matter what sophistry is used to conceal the fact.
Surely, it needs no expert in railway affairs to detect that the soph-
istry just here is not Mr. Alexanders. Lawyers of a certain grade
sometimes talk to juries in this vein, but they are shrewd enough to
know their jury pretty well before attempting it. An industry that
employs seven or eight thousand millions of capital in these United
States ought, one would say, to be reasonably suspected of employing
brains here and there certainly ought not rashly to be assumed to
neglect the entire remainder of its continental field (to say nothing
of the keeping of its own books), in order to concentrate its entire
energies upon the commercial destruction of a single village ! There
has yet to be discovered, I suppose, a human institution in whose
workings there was not hardship or inequality somewhere. But Mr.
Hudson has only, it seems to him, to select his hardship to demolish
the entire railway system his principle being, not the greatest good
