ARE RAILROADS PUBLIC ENEMIES? 151
any line) will have none of their reduced rates unless they reduce
them from the proper motive. After all, the act is nothing. It is the
motive which must govern. And doubtless we could nowhere elicit a
more virtuous, certainly nowhere a better specimen than this of Mr.
Hudsons public-spirited argument against railroads, from this most
exhaustive and most entertaining of scrap-books. No matter what
you do, if your eart is only true, says the old song. And so says
Mr. Hudson to the railroads of this republic. But let it at least be
remembered in their behalf that, even if they did it with selfish mo-
tives, the railways were themselves the first to attempt their own
reformation. Railroads are and must remain built for the private
emolument of their owners, and not for charitable purposes. They
were not proof against the temptation of charging more money for
a short haul to non-competitive points than for a long haul to com-
petitive points in the struggle to live alongside of paralleling lines
which the people themselves have chartered. But, when the pool
removed this temptation by making all points non-competitive
although no law, human or divine, compelled them ; they did volun-
tarily resist the temptation to pool at maximum rates the rates not
only fell, but became proportionate to cost of hauling, the competition
remaining only as to those long-haul points in whose favor Nature
has discriminated by establishing water communications. Mr. Hud-
son has, perhaps, read a great many books. He should not have
omitted from among them the late Dr. Liebers Civil Liberty and
Self-Government (especially the chapter wherein is treated the prin-
ciple of the Freedom of Rivers ). Then, remembering that the
United States has not only two ocean coast-lines, but great lakes and
a system of navigable rivers more magnificent and more benign than
that of any other country, he might possibly have perceived how in
his railway problem so slight a consideration as our national geogra-
phy might be at least as important a factor as a handful of selected
individual hardships. Mr. Hudson does not relish the rates charged
by our railway companies. He suggests no others, but is entirely
clear, none the less, that they should be changed somehow. If rates
are at present airanged upon a system, let us drop the system and
make them arbitrary according to Mr. Hudsons selection, if he
would only agree to abide by it. If your present rates are robbing
the people, low as they are very well, lower them still more, and rob
your stockholders. It is evident that Mr. Hudson, for one, is no stock-
holder. But are not our stockholders parcel of the people ? And so
the old impossibility of finding standpoint or rather, the necessity
of shifting his point of view with each newspaper-clipping he pastes
in his scrap-book renders Mr. Hudson everywhere specious, incon-
sistent and absurd ; which leads us up to our second head.
II. Stock -Watering. But, says Mr. Hudson, you can not really
rob your stockholders, you know, because your stock is water, and
