152 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
your capitalization fictitious. Let us see about this. Many a
good cause and many a good man have been 6lain by an epigram. It
was a coup desprit of Wall Street to call the increased capitalization
by a corporation a watering of its stock ; and the phrase has doubt-
less often done yeoman service in the transactions by which Wall
Street lives and thrives. But the old syllogism must be accepted
very peremptorily here if we are to admit because corporations some-
times do increase their capital on paper that all railway companies
are public enemies. Nobody can defend, and nobody ought to attempt
to defend, the pouring of pure water into the capital stock of a corpo-
ration. But there are some four hundred railroad companies in these
United States ; and Mr. Hudson, to sustain the charge of universal
watering against railway companies, instances two capital cases. One
of these was one of the most flagrant cases on record (it would be diffi-
cult, indeed, to find one more flagrant). It dates back some twelve
years ; was first held up to public criticism by a gentleman who, more
than any other one man, is in receipt of Mr. Hudsons constant and
most unqualified strictures everywhere else in Mr. Hudsons pages for
his own career as a railroad president ; moreover, this very case be-
came the moving cause of legislation which forever prevented a repe-
tition of the particular process by which this particular stock was
watered. As to the other case cited by Mr. Hudson, the water-
ing, according to his own figures, amounted to one third of its in-
creased capital. But I doubt if any shipper of the line of that partic-
ular railroad, or any patron of the line who remembers its previous
condition, will agree with Mr. Hudson that a betterment of one third
at least did not accrue at about the time of the watering. Suppose
a zigzag line of railways operated by half a dozen petty corporations,
requiring endless delays, a change of cars for passengers and a break-
ing of freight bulks between two of the most important terminals in
the country metamorphosed into a system of four through tracks to
conserve the safety of life and property by separating freight and pas-
senger service. Suppose the improvement marked by increased pros-
perity, not only of the line but of the territory it traversed would
there have been no betterment to capitalize, or would the capitalizing
of this. betterment be water? Would stockholders, in such a case,
be apt to object to the company borrowing money to make their own
stock more valuable? And which is Mr. Hudsons public just now,
the public along the line of this improved railway, and who pay its
tariffs ; or the entire continent from Sandy Hook to the Golden Gate,
from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, for whom Mr. Hudson assumes
to take up his parable ? Another curious fact which Mr. Hudson may
not be aware of (or if aware of, which he has inadvertently omitted to
clip and paste in just here) is the fact that at present, in 1887, these
two selected corporations are members of the same pool, serving re-
spective but almost parallel territory at rates at least thirty-three per
