156 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
from and determined by the local police power of each separate com-
munity, although sometimes granted by proclamation from the State
Executive, since Mr. Hudson has not assailed it, I will not defend. In
the granting of railway passes I confess my inability to discover a crime
against the State. Wherein they differ from the orders that a mana-
ger issues to seats in a theatre especially since his theatrical privileges
come from the people by special license I am unable to perceive.
Passes are the small currency of the railway company, payable for
favors not estimated in, or convertible to, money ; and are used just
as the small trader bestows an apple or a toy upon the juvenile carrier
between his small customer and himself. The companys rule is to
issue passes only for services ; but the rule is construed liberally to
apply to prospective as well as actual services, and to count presumed
influence, or perhaps an assumed or expected favorable mention of the
particular corporation issuing them as a service. But, even if issued
for no service, real or prospective, I know of no human being, institu-
tion, or concern, public or private, that is not allowed to perform acts
complimentary in their nature, or even entirely gratuitous. In the
course of many years experience I have seen fully as many acts of
public charity as of private compliment performed by railway com-
panies. A friendless and penniless woman, whose husband has been
left behind or has deserted her, en route she knows not whither, can
be transported to a desired destination, if not in the discretion of the
conductor, at least by telegraphing for permission to the proper de-
partment. And there is not a railway in the country where such gra-
tuitous services are not constant, and as unchronicled and unheralded
as they are constant. While I frankly say that, for one, I can not see
where the granting either of charities or of passes militates against
the public character imposed by Legislatures upon railroads, or is for-
bidden by the fact that to facilitate its construction the railway com-
pany once enjoyed a parcel of the States power of eminent domain ;
I must admit that (except as to employes) the system has always
been a nuisance to the railway companies which they have constantly
labored to abolish. It is impossible to forecast what quantum of
credit Mr. Hudson and his kind may take unto themselves for the
Interstate Commerce Act, which has at last promised the railways a
grateful relief from the pass-beggar. But if that act shall abolish
both pools and passes, public sympathy w T ill be with the honest shipper
who must pay increased tariffs, rather than with the local Solon who
wakes to find that while screaming at discriminations and long
and short hauls he has actually been emptying his own pockets of
the passes with which they were lined.
The power of the Government over the citizen, then, except in this
solitary instance of land condemnation, being never exercised by a
corporation : being bestowed invariably and always for the benefit and
in the interest of the people, and not of the railway company ; taking
