ARE RAILROADS PUBLIC ENEMIES? 157
always the shape of a duty and never the shape of a privilege granted
that railroads are quasi-\uh\iG corporations, it would appear to follow
since they are only quasi-public, that they have still some elements
of a private nature ; and (since it is their private and not their public
character which continues) that it is by this private character they
must be continually judged. Granted that they must carry freights
for the public in such a way as not to injure either the public or the
freight in the carrying, most emphatically (it seems to me) it does not
follow that they must add to the value of the freights they carry by
charging only such rates as the public, or the owners of the freight,
insist on. Mr. Hudson, as a member of society, has a presumptive
right to light and air ; to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Supposing that society should pass one law affirmatively compelling
Mr. Hudson to recognize his neighbors rights to life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness ; and, on top of that, another restraining him
from interfering with these rights ; still another compelling him to
positively contribute in cash or services to the life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness of his neighbors ; and add to all these a still fur-
ther law taking away his (Mr. Hudsons) own life, liberty, etc., because
he had not in the past so contributed ? Would not Mr. Hudson begin
after a while to consider the propriety of looking up his own consti-
tutional privileges ; or, possibly, the charter of the particular society
that was enacting all these statutes ? or query, perhaps, if the mere
grant of power to breathe himself were a fair consideration for the
burden of seeing to it that the entire neighborhood breathed ? But
our laws are daily imposing upon the railway companies they have char-
tered (on account of this so-called ^Mtm-public character which the
once granting of this long-lapsed power of eminent domain has saddled
upon them) the duty of carrying whatever of passengers or freight is
offered of reasonably accommodating the public of forfeiture of
their charter if, even at a loss, trains are not so run as to accommodate
reasonably ; of operating, whether at a profit or at a deficit (under pen-
alties for refusal to perform services desired of them) under a burden
of proof always to prove a negative if the refusal is alleged of them
under a disadvantage always before a jury and of being obliged to
accept the jury always of the locality where ideas of value and damage
are the largest. Liabilities always to patrons, servants, abutters and
adjoiners ; to the State ; compelled to pay damages for accidents caused
by trespasses on their own rights of way ; to maintain alert and vigi-
lant counsel always to watch, lest at any moment they inadvertently
overlook any of the thousands of statutes that thirty-eight Legis-
latures are annually pouring from the legislative mill ; black-mailed
on every hand, and always under the conviction that the average citi-
zen sees no dishonesty in getting the better of them by dodging fares,
or getting passes under false pretenses ; and, if they receive a public
gift of land, having it at once constiued against them and carried to
