ARE RAILROADS PUBLIC ENEMIES? 159
would be necessary did every man, woman, and child possess the in-
alienable right to place upon their tracks their own locomotives, their
own passenger-coaches and freight-carriages, and to run them at their
own sweet will hither and thither. Nor can my fancy devise where
all this rolling-stock would be stored when not in use (unless, indeed,
means were devised to suspend it, by balloons or other aerial contriv-
ance, over the railways themselves). Mr. Hudson does not discuss
these questions at all, but leaves them, possibly, to the inventive
genius of the race. And there, perhaps, we may also rest them.
But, taking leave of Mr. Hudson and his chimera, we have yet be-
fore us the railways themselves. Against the inequality of their own
rates and the hardship of the long and short haul (in other words,
against the discriminations of Nature and of physical laws), no less
than against the peril of bankruptcy and the consequent speculative
tendency of their stocks (after which may come the wrecking, the
watering, and the vast individual fortunes), the railways of this re-
public have endeavored, by establishment of pool commissions, to de-
fend both the public and themselves ; and, whatever their motive
may have been, their record as to that can not be disturbed. As to
the effect of the Interstate Commerce Law upon the shipper and the
passenger, time and trial alone can testify. But it is precisely such
literature as Mr. Hudsons, and the sentiment it manufactures, which
have made railway-wrecking, stock-watering, and their concomitant
disasters possible ; while for these disasters, down to date at least,
the pool has been found the only and entirely adequate remedy. That
remedy, drastic as it is, the railways (far from being public enemies)
have themselves applied. The honest administration of railways for
all interests, the payment of their fixed charges, the solvency of their
securities, the faithful and valuable performance of their duties as
carriers, can be conserved in but one way by living tariffs such as
the pools have guaranteed. But we want no living tariffs, says our
Mr. Hudson. Give us a governmental control, and we will pay no
tariffs only a trackage-fee ! Supposing this revolution accomplished,
and how many years or months would, perhaps, elapse before another
declamation in five hundred more pages of close type against the ex-
cessive trackage-fees, the favors to public officials or private cronies,
or a formulated demand that the Government provide terminals at its
own expense (another planet, possibly), sumptuous rolling-stock, mo-
tive power, and accident insurance policies for its passengers would
arrive from the constant, sleepless, and irrepressible Mr. Hudson ? Is
it not, after all, Mr. Hudson and his kind and not the Wall Street
operator who trades on the sham public opinion they manufacture
who are the true stock-waterers, railroad-wreckers, and enemies of this
republic ?
