SOME HUMAN INSTINCTS. 161
life, as unautoraatic and ununiform in its outward aspect, as human
life has ever been claimed to be.
In this article and a later one, I will run over the human instincts
in detail, commenting with fullness only upon such as are interesting
enough to repay the pains.
The line to be drawn between simply reflex and instinctive actions
is an entirely arbitrary one ; so I can see no objection, on the score of
principle, to including under the title of instincts Professor Preyers
whole list of the gradually evolving propensities to action of the human
babe : Sucking, biting, spitting, making grimaces, clasping, pointing,
making sounds expressive of desire, carrying objects to the mouth, avert-
ing head and body, sitting up, standing, are all accomplishments which
come in due order, and lead us to the locomotor age. Each is irre-
sistibly called forth by some appropriate stimulus, and finally becomes
subject to the conscious will.
Locomotion is more interesting. Until the walking impidse ripens
in the nerve-centers, the legs remain limp and indifferent, no matter
how often the child may be hung with his feet in contact with the
ground. No sooner, however, has the standing instinct come, than
the child stiffens his legs and presses downward as soon as his feet
feel the floor. In some babies this is the earliest locomotor reaction.
In others it is preceded by the impulse to creep. Yesterday, the baby
sat contentedly wherever he was put. To-day, it is impossible to keep
him sitting at all, so irresistible is his impulse to throw himself for-
ward on his hands. Usually the arms are too weak, and the ambi-
tious little experimenter falls on his nose. But his perseverance is
dauntless, and he soon learns to travel in the quadrupedal way. The
walking instinct may awaken with no less suddenness, and its entire edu-
cation be completed within a weeks compass, barring a little groggi-
ness in the gait. The common belief that a baby learns to walk is,
strictly speaking, untrue. The reflex machinery, as it begins to ripen,
prompts him to its use. But, as it is imperfectly organized, he makes
mistakes. If, however, a baby could be prevented from getting on
his feet at all for a fortnight or so after his first impulse to do so had
manifested itself, and then restored to freedom, I have little doubt of
his then being able to walk perfectly, or almost perfectly, from the
word go. A small blister on each foot-sole would do the business ;
and it is much to be desired that some scientific widower, left alone
with his infant at the critical moment, should repeat on the human
species the brilliant observation of Mr. Douglas Spalding on various
small birds, which he kept till they were fully fledged, and then found
to fly with absolute perfection the first time he allowed them to spread
their wings. Usually, birds start to fly before either the central or
peripheral apparatus is quite ripe. And so do we, to walk.
Of vocalization I will say nothing except that it is instinctive in
both of its forms, singing and speech, and that the propensity to speak
VOL. XXXI. 11
