8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
moral and spiritual matters, but mere children so far as the develop-
ment of their scientific faculties were concerned ; and it is from the
scientific faculties that theology, as such, proceeds. Theology is an
attempt to define to the understanding the basis of mans religious con-
victions and aspirations ; it aims to be the science of Gods dealings
with man and Nature, and as such it is bound to share the infirmity of
the logical and scientific faculty of the times in which it arises.
The contemporaries of Jesus thought it not unreasonable that John
the Baptist should come to life after his head had been cut off ; that
the prophet Elias should reappear upon earth, or that Jeremiah should
come back. These notions were in strict keeping with the belief in
the marvelous and the supernatural that then possessed mens minds.
The four Gospels were a growth out of this atmosphere, and the cur-
rent theology is a continuation of the same faith in prodigies as op-
posed to natural occurrences. The fathers knew little more about
the true order of the physical universe than savages. They believed,
for instance, the use of the spade made the earth fertile because it was
of the form of a cross ; that the sun, moon, and stars shone less brightly
since the fall. Irena3us gave, as his reasons for accepting the four Gos-
pels and no more, the fact that there are four universal winds and four
quarters of the earth, and because living creatures are quadriform.
Origen believed that the sun, moon, and stars were living, rational be-
ings, capable of sinning, and are subject to vanity, etc., and that they
pray to the Supreme Being through his only-begotten Son. Tertullian
shared the belief of his contemporaries that the hyena changes its sex
every year, being alternately male and female. Clement, of Rome, be-
lieved the story of the phoenix, that wonderful bird of Arabia, which
was said to live five hundred years ; and when it died at the end of
that time, that a worm sprang from its decaying flesh which soon be-
came a new phoenix, which forthwith took up the bones of its defunct
parent and flew away to the city of Ileliopolis, in Egypt, and laid them
on the altar of the sun. The natural philosopher has always taught that
death is a law and not a punishment, but the fathers taught it is a
penal infliction introduced into the world on account of the sin of
Adam, which was also the cause of the appearance of all noxious
plants, of all convulsions in the material globe, and, as was sometimes
asserted, even of a diminution of the lisjht of the sun. How dormant
and puerile mans scientific faculties were during the early centuries
of Christianity, when the foundations of the science of theology were
laid, is well illustrated in a work called the Christian Opinion con-
cerning the World, by the monk Cosmas, of the sixth century. Cos-
mas taught that the earth was literally a tabernacle, because St. Paul
speaks of it as such, and that Moses exactly copied its form in his tab-
ernacle. It is a flat parallelogram, twice as long as it is broad, roofed
in by the sky, which is glued to the outer edges of the earth. It con-
sists of two stories, in one of which dwell the blessed, and in the other
