SOME HUMAN INSTINCTS. 167
which was her reception-room. She first looked at the flame in a very fright-
ened way. I brought her near to it. She leaped away and ran to hide under
the bed. Although the fire was lighted every day, it was not until the end of
the winter that I could prevail upon her to stay upon a chair near it. The next
winter, however, all apprehension had disappeared. . . . Let us, then, conclude
that there are hereditary dispositions to fear, which are independent of expe-
rience, but which experiences may end by attenuating very considerably. In
the human infant I believe them to be particularly connected with the ear.*
The effect of noise in heightening any terror we may feel in adult
years is very marked. The holding of the storm, whether on sea or
land, is a principal cause of our anxiety when exposed to it. The
writer has been interested in noticing in his own person, while lying
in bed, and kept awake by the wind outside, bow invariably each loud
gust of it arrested momentarily his heart. A clog, attacking us, is
much more dreadful by reason of the noises he makes.
Strange men, and strange animals, either large or small, excite
fear, but especially men or animals advancing toward us in a threaten-
ing way. This is entirely instinctive and antecedent to experience.
Some children will cry with terror at their very first sight of a cat or
dog, and it will often be impossible for weeks to make them touch it.
Others will wish to fondle it almost immediately. Certain kinds of
vermin, especially spiders and snakes, seem to excite a fear unusu-
ally difficult to overcome. It is impossible to say how much of this
difference is instinctive and how much the result of stories heard
about these creatures. That the fear of vermin ripens gradually
seemed to me to be proved in a child of my own to whom I gave a
live frog once, at the age of six to eight months, and again when he
was a year and a half old. The first time, he seized it promptly, and
holding it, in spite of its struggling, at last got its head into his mouth.
He then let it crawl up his breast, and get upon his face, without show-
ing alarm. But the second time, although he had seen no frog and
heard no story about a frog between whiles, it was almost impossible
to induce him to touch it. Another child, a year old, eagerly took
some very large spiders into his hand. At present he is afraid, but has
been exposed meanwhile to the teachings of the nursery. Preyer tells of
a young child screaming with fear on being carried near to the sea.
Solitude is a source of terror to infancy. The teleology of this is
obvious, as is also that of the infants expression of dismay the never-
failing cry on waking up and finding himself alone.
* Psychologie de lEnfant, pp. 72-74, in an account of a young gorilla quoted from
Falkcnptein, by R. Hartmann ( Anthropoid Apes, International Scientific Series,
vol. Hi, New York, 1886, page 265), it is said : lie very much disliked strange noises.
Thunder, the rain falling on the skylight, and especially the long-drawn note of a pipe
or trumpet, threw him into such agitation as to cause a sudden affection of the digestive
organs, and it became expedient to keep him at a distance. When he was slightly
indisposed, we made use of this kind of music with results as successful as if we had ad-
ministered purgative medicine.
