170 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in the expression of ordinary fear, which might receive an explanatory
light from ancestral conditions, even infra-human ones. In ordinary
fear, one may either run, or remain semi-paralyzed. The latter condi-
tion reminds us of the so-called death-shamming instinct shown by
many animals. Dr. Lindsay, in his work on Mind in Animals, says
this must require great self-command in those that practice it. But
it is really no feigning of death at all, and requires no self-command.
It is simply a terror-paralysis which has been so useful as to be-
come hereditary. The beast of prey does not think the motionless
bird, insect, or crustacean dead. He simply fails to notico them at
all ; because his senses, like ours, are much more strongly excited by
a moving object than by a still one. It is the same instinct which
leads a boy playing I spy to hold his very breath when the seeker
is near, and which makes the beast of prey himself in many cases
motionlessly lie in wait for his victim or silently stalk it, by rapid
approaches alternated with periods of immobility. It is the opposite
of the instinct which makes us jump up and down and move our arms
when we wish to attract the notice of some one passing far away, and
makes the shipwrecked sailor frantically wave a cloth upon the raft
where he is floating when a distant sail appears. Now, may not the
statue-like, crouching immobility of some melancholiacs, insane with
general anxiety and fear of everything, be in some way connected with
this old instinct ? They can give no reason for their fear to move ;
but immobility makes them feel safer and more comfortable. Is not
this the mental state of the feigning animal ?
Again, take the strange symptom which has been described of late
years by the rather absurd name of agoraphobia. The patient is
seized with palpitation and terror at the sight of any open place or
broad street which he has to cross alone. He trembles, his knees bend,
he may even faint at the idea. Where he has sufficient self-command
he sometimes accomplishes the object by keeping safe under the lee
of a vehicle going across, or joining himself to a knot of other people.
But usually he slinks round the sides of the square, hugging the houses
as closely as he can. This emotion has no utility in a civilized man,
but when we notice the chronic agoraphobia of our domestic cats,
and see the tenacious way in which many wild animals, especially
rodents, cling to cover, and only venture on a dash across the open
as a desperate measure even then making for every stone or bunch
of weeds which may give a momentary shelter when we see this
we are strongly tempted to ask whether such an odd kind of fear
in us be not due to the accidental resurrection, through disease, of
a sort of instinct which may in some of our ancestors have had a
permanent and on the whole a useful part to play ?
In a subsequent paper I shall try to consider mans remaining in-
stincts in a similar way.
