THEOLOGY UNDER ITS CHANGED CONDITIONS. 173
patience and care which are necessary in dealing with an abstract sub-
ject, and one which touches mens inmost susceptibilities. This patience
is required alike from those who are irritated by the old usurpations
of theology, and would not be sorry if it could be banished altogether,
and from those who esteem theology as the venerable mother and head
of the sciences, and fear lest her majesty should be disparaged by too
unabashed a gaze.
Secondly, it is neither honest nor politic to hide the real state of
things. The questions which it suggests are felt not only by theolo-
gians, but by many thoughtful ministers and laymen ; and we need
not doubt that they are honestly met and solved in many cases. But
the impression on the mind of the laity is that a hard system of dogmas
which they have identified with the gospel exists unmodified in the
mind of the clergy, and that theologians are quite unaware of the
change which modern conditions have imposed upon religious thought.
For instance, Professor Huxley, some years ago, when asked to give
an address to the London clergy, proved in an elaborate exposition that
the world was more than six thousand years old. Probably there was
hardly one of his hearers, even at that time, who needed to be con-
vinced of it. But theologians must feel that it is not mere personal
and esoteric conviction, but a frank acknowledgment of the conditions
of things, which is needed for the vindication of the dignity of their
science and of their own intelligence and veracity.
Thirdly, it is not to be supposed, as sometimes happens, that those
who subject an institution to such an ordeal are detracting from it.
Criticism is not necessarily negative. More than thirty years ago
Prince Albert said that constitutional government was on its trial, at
a time when it hardly existed in any great European country but Eng-
land. The trial it underwent was so successful that it is now recognized,
more or less, as the form of government in all Europe, except Russia
and Turkey. Criticism, moreover, even where barely negative, is often
the means of purging away the dross and making the metal appear in
its purity. Theology at the Christian era and at the Eeformation un-
derwent such a purification, and stood forth afterward far stronger and
more fit for the purposes of piety. We must get down, at whatever
expense, to the solid rock, and then we can safely build ; but the tower
we build will be nobler and more useful, because it stands firm. We
need have no fear as to the future of theology and of the religious life
which is founded upon it.
I- 1- To begin with the conditions imposed by the physical sci-
ences. The immense advance which has been made in this depart-
ment, alike in the way of discovery, of diffusion, and of application, is
the most marked intellectual feature of our epoch. But physical sci-
ence can not advance a step without the assumption of the imiformity
of Xature. This uniformity is tested at every stage and never fails.
The idea that it can fail becomes almost inconceivable. When the
