176 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which belongs to the Babylonish captivity ; of parts of Zechariah,
which belong to several periods ; and of the Book of Daniel, which
is not properly to be numbered with the Prophets (the critics in this
respect following the old Jewish estimate), but consists of a series of
traditions put together for the encouragement of the faithful Jews in
the time of the Maccabees.
In regard to the New Testament there is far less tendency to
agreement among scholars. The researches relating to the Synoptic
Gospels have made it clear that they are not independent accounts,
but have a common origin either in an oral or a written tradition
which was variously handled ; that in all probability Mark was the
oldest and Luke the latest of the three, but that the title according
to St. Matthew or St. Mark permits of the hypothesis that they
passed through a rehandling in a later generation of their disciples,
and that the same is highly probable in the case of the fourth Gospel,
which, however, many believe to have been wholly composed in the
second century by some disciple or successor of St. John ; that the
Acts of the Apostles can not be wholly relied on for the details of the
history ; that the four great epistles of St. Paul are the earliest and
most certain Christian documents ; and that no reasonable doubt
attaches to the Epistles to the Thessalonians. The Epistles of the
Captivity present so different an aspect of Christianity that their act-
ual Pauline authorship is the subject of some doubt, though from this
doubt the Epistle to the Philippians is almost free ; the pastoral Epis-
tles, however, can not be treated with any certainty as having been
written by St. Paul himself, and the Hebrews are almost certainly by
another, though one in close sympathy with him. The Epistle of St.
James is reckoned genuine ; the Second Epistle of St. Peter and that
of Jude are liable to the gravest doubts, and the First Epistle of Peter
is not wholly undoubted. The Johannine epistles go with the fourth
Gospel, and can hardly be by the same author as the Apocalypse,
which is fixed almost without doubt to be the work of the apostle,
and to have been written in the reign of the Emperor Galba.
It is, of course, quite possible that some of these opinions may be
unsound. Few of them are wholly undisputed. It is possible also
that the estimate here given of the tendency of opinion may not be
entirely correct. Yet it can hardly be far from the truth ; and the
main lines of this criticism acquire a greater certainty and acceptance
every year. In any case it has become impossible to deal with the
sacred history as exempt from the conditions of ordinary history, or
with the Psalms and prophets as if their glowing words could be taken
as definitions of theological truths or rules of life. In the history we
have to pick our way amid many doubtful paths, to ask at every turn
whether the facts are exactly as they have been represented. Even
in the didactic portions we have to inquire whether the sayings are
genuine, and if so, to which of the various phases of a rapidly-chang-
