THEOLOGY UNDEE ITS CHANGED CONDITIONS. 177
ing development they belong. We have to admit the various tenden-
cies in the teaching of the apostles ; and, in regard to the central
figure of all, to gain from books subject to the same incidents as other
forms of literature, and written by men who imperfectly understood
him, our consciousness of the value of his life, his character, his teach-
ing, and of his relation to mankind and to God.
The early history of the Church has likewise been subjected to a
minute criticism, which has been stimulated of late by the discovery
of the Teaching of the Twelve Apostles. The result has been to
give us a simpler view of the organization of the Christian societies
and of their life and thoughts, to show the influence of various social
circumstances working naturally upon them, and forming their insti-
tutions and their theology. It becomes less and less possible to attrib-
ute to the earliest period of the Church, as having been formally
imposed or exclusively admitted, any of the theories of Church gov-
ernment which we now know, whether Episcopal, Presbyterian, or In-
dependent, or the formed doctrines of later times, whether relating to
the plan of redemption or to the Incarnation or the Trinity.
3. While the progress of science and criticism have thus made
new conditions for theological thought, church-life has also undergone
changes which allow of the necessary expansion. First, we must recall
the formal liberation of opinion effected mainly by the judgment of
the Privy Council, delivered in 1864, in the cases arising out of the
Essays and Reviews. The alarm excited ten years before by Mr.
Maurices theological essays, especially on the questions of the atone-
ment and of eternal punishment, and by the works of Professor Jow-
ett and Dr. Rowland Williams, found expression in Mr. Mansels
Bampton Lectures ; and when there appeared successively the first
volume of Bishop Colensos work on the Pentateuch, which was prac-
tically a polemic against verbal inspiration, and the Essays and Re-
views, which were a distinct demand for liberty of thought in the
authorized teachers of the English Church, this alarm showed itself in
the shape of prosecutions for heresy. Out of the multitude of state-
ments impugned in the Essays of Dr. Williams and Mr. Wilson
three only remained on which the Privy Council were called to adju-
dicate ; but they represented the three departments of theology on
which liberty was most distinctly demanded : 1. The Atonement and
Justification ; 2. The Inspiration of Scripture ; 3. Eternal Punishment.
The charge relating to the first of these was withdrawn, and on the
other two the judgment was in favor of the accused. Thus an almost
complete liberty was won on the matters then under discussion, and
the principles on which the judgment was based practically gave a
similar assurance on other points. The tendency of the Privy Coun-
cil, as representing the supremacy of the national over ecclesiastical
law, has been almost uniformly in favor of liberty. It has been pos-
sible in a few extreme cases to procure the condemnation of cler-
VOL. XXXI. 12
