178 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gyraen for matters of opinion ; but these cases have been very rare,
and the tendency to give liberty has been even-handed. The Gorham
case gave a similar liberty to those who denied abnormal or super-
natural power to one of the sacraments ; the Bennett case gave liberty
to those who asserted a similar power in the other. Even in cases of
ritual, which stand on a different ground, being matters of formal
regulation, there has been great unwillingness to press hardly on con-
scientious men, even when palpably defying the law ; and the bishops
have vindicated for themselves a power of stopping suits which they
consider vexatious.
This action of the Privy Council corresponds with the general
feeling. The different sections of the clergy and their adherents
who made some outcry against the judgments, have gradually adopted
more and more of the spirit of toleration which characterizes the law.
To a large extent the judgments in doctrinal matters have preluded
an actual change of opinion. The stringent doctrine of substitution
as the essence of the atonement, the notion of inspiration as consist-
ing in verbal accuracy rather than in the general spirit of the book,
the belief in the everlasting perpetuation of sin and suffering, are
alike strange to the present generation. They may still be held in
some form, but probably in all cases with modifications, and they are
certainly not insisted on as marks of true religion.
It may be partly the ill-success of past prosecutions for heresy, or
it may be a consciousness that we are none of us in such literal con-
formity with the standards as to warrant us in casting stones at one
another, or it may be some other consideration, which is the cause of
the present aversion from an appeal to the courts. At all events, such
an aversion exists. A striking proof of it has lately been furnished
at Oxford. The rector of the City Church, Mr. Carteret Fletcher,
was delated to the vice-chancellor for a sermon preached before
the university, which contained the following passages :
1. Kot long ago it was the general belief that man had been created per-
fect, but that he had fallen from perfection into an abyss of doom, whence only
an elect fragment of the race would emerge; but it is now dawning on us that
man was created in an undeveloped state, with a splendid potential wealth of
faculty, and that he has advanced through long ages to his present stage, whence
he is destined to rise higher than imagination can follow him. In him we see a
rough-hewed block in course of being molded into perfect shape, and not the
reconstruction of the shattered pieces of a faultless image.
2. The historical evidence ot Christs resurrection, after traversing a gulf
of eighteen centuries, loses much of its convincing force in a scientific age which
takes its stand on the uniformity of law. But this failing of the external evi-
dence is more than compensated by our deeper realization of the inward proofs
of human immortality; by our faith in the eternity of Christs character, as well
as by our consciousness of the high capacities and affections which he has called
forth in us, and which are mocked by the brevity of life, and are totally in-
capable of exhaustion here.
