THEOLOGY UNDER ITS CHANGED CONDITIONS. 179
On these passages the accusation was grounded 1. That the
preacher departed, and that knowingly, from the teaching of St. Paul
on the fall of Adam. 2. That he denied the fact of the resurrection
of our Lord. 3. That he claimed for the teachers of to-day to correct
the teaching of the apostles, and of the Church on various other
points.
It is true that three of the six doctors whom the vice-chancellor
considered himself bound by the statute to appoint to inquire into the
complaint could not bring themselves to pronounce Mr. Fletchers
teaching as free from the charge of being dissonant or contrary to
the doctrine of the Church of England as publicly received ; and that
he was acquitted only by the casting vote of the vice-chancellor. But
not only was the feeling of both residents and non-residents, of all
shades of opinion, strongly adverse to the proceeding, but (we quote
from the journal which represents the more conservative and clericalist
side of university opinion) an opinion to this effect was conveyed to
Mr. Ffoulkes (the delator) in a letter signed by a number of those
whose judgment might be supposed likely to have weight with him ;
and it is added, Mr. Ffoulkess action is entirely his own. We may
add that a certain sense of incongruity is imparted to the proceeding
by the fact that Mr. Ffoulkes was himself for some time the holder
of views within the Church of England which led him to become for
some years a Roman Catholic. But the prevalent feeling has been
that expressed by Trajan about persecution, Non nostri sseculi est.
As Mr. Fletcher says in the preface to his published sermon : It is so
incongruous with the ideas of our time that, even in serious people,
it excites a sense of humor. It is like fighting with bows and arrows
after the invention of cannon. Let us hope it will have the historical
interest of being the last instance of its kind ; the last flickering, ex-
piring flame of a fire which once burned so fiercely, and nowhere more
so than in Oxford. This feeling is shared by religious persons gen-
erally. It may rightly be said that almost any opinion, if put forward
with sincere conviction and in a becoming spirit, will be allowed an
unprejudiced hearing ; and that, whether in the university or in the
Church generally, prosecutions for matters of opinion are very unlikely
to be repeated.
This conviction arises from the fact that this aversion from prose-
cution is not an isolated fact. It is connected with a spirit of tol-
erance which is wide-spread and well-grounded. Meetings like the
Church Congress and the Diocesan Conferences have made the clergy
and their adherents know and esteem one another, and Church parties
have not the bitter antagonism they once had. In clerical circles
this tolerance as yet hardly extends to Nonconformists ; the clergy
still to a great extent hold theories, and still more entertain exclusive
feelings, which separate them and those attached to their teaching
from co-operation in all spiritual things with dissenters. But there
