THEOLOGY UNDER ITS CHANGED CONDITIONS. 181
of this article said that we must be Christian agnostics, he used the
term agnostic not in the sense in which it is frequently used, and which
implies, first, that it is more than doubtful whether the objects of
theology exist at all ; and, secondly, that it is a pestilent piece of folly
to seek for any knowledge about them ; but simply in the sense that
they must be approached by other paths than those of a speculation
which results in the formation of dogmas. The distinguished inventor
of the name agnostic has in a recent number of this Review reminded
us that physical science is as little atheistic as it is materialistic.
It may be as well to quote the passage ( Fortnightly Review for
December, 188G, page 799) :
The student of Nature who starts from the axiom of the universality of the
law of causation, can not refuse to admit an eternal existence ; if he admits the
conservation of energy, he can not deny the possibility of an eternal energy ; if
he admits the existence of immaterial phenomena in the form of consciousness,
he must admit the possibility at any rate of an eternal series of such phenom-
ena; and, if his studies have not been barren of the best fruit of the investi-
gation of Nature, he will have enough sense to see that, when Spinoza says,
Per Deum intelligo ens absolute infinitum, hoc est substantiam constantem
infinitis attributis, the God so conceived is one that only a very great fool
indeed would deny, even in his heart. Physical science is as little atheistic as
it is materialistic.
Mr. Herbert Spencer goes further, and dwells upon this eternal
energy as the mystery of mysteries, and considers that religion as
maintaining the sense of this mystery is one of the most important
factors of human life. We are all alike in the admission of a great
object of thought to which the name of God has commonly been
given. We have all to co-operate in the endeavor to estimate the
nature and character of that object.
In the sermon above quoted it was pointed out that literature was
one of the channels through which the great objects of theology would
in future be approached. The preacher implied, like Mr. Matthew
Arnold, that the literary conceptions of God and immortality (words
thrown out at a great subject, to use Mr. Arnolds expression) bring
us nearer to the truth than dogmatic statements. It is not very differ-
ent from what Aristotle says about morals We must be content in
such matters to exhibit the truth roughly and in a figure, and to reach
our object by words which describe it in the general and to draw infer-
erences of the same kind ; for it is the mark of a man of culture to
seek for exactness in each subject only so far as the nature of the thing
admits. You do not expect exhortations from a mathematician or
demonstration from a rhetorician. But theologians have commonly
started in entire defiance of this warning. They have begun with
axioms and definitions, and have proceeded to demonstrations. They
have said or proved that God is just or good, God is personal, God
is omniscient and omnipotent ; and they have used these phrases not
