THEOLOGY UNDER ITS CHANGED CONDITIONS. 183
single power or energy. They will show the traces of order, mind,
and purpose which the world presents, and will cautiously draw from
the processes of human life as that which is highest in the moral scale
their inferences as to the nature of the Supreme Power. They will
not merely be careful not to contravene the laws of Nature, but will
consider essential a knowledge of them as manifestations of the Su-
preme Will, to which men must reverently submit themselves. They
will not spend time in questions which admit of no solution, such as
the eternity of matter or the origin of the world, or the possibilities of
other spheres of life than those known to us by experience. They will
trace the divine as working through Nature and man ; or, if they en-
deavor to think of a transcendental God, they will take care not to
represent him as a demiurge standing outside his work and putting in
his hand here and there, a conception which has turned so many physi-
cists into atheists. But they will feel able to speak of God as just and
loving, since the Supreme Power ex hypothesi includes mankind, the
leading portion of the world, with all its noblest ideals. They need
not quarrel with those who think of the Supreme Power rather after
the analogy of force or law than according to the strict idea of per-
sonality, provided that the moral nature of man be held fast and its
supremacy acknowledged.
2. As regards the Scriptures. The theologian of our new epoch
will start without any theory of inspiration. He will be ready to
admit that God has revealed himself in part in other systems, ancient
and modern. He will not pretend that the Scriptures are absolutely
perfect in any part, but will take them for what they are really worth,
and as constituting a history and a literature in which the development
of religion is to be studied. But the fact that the Bible can not be
used as the infallible mine of ready-made statements concerning his-
tory and morals, will throw him back from the letter to the spirit, from
the external proof to the truth which is gained by thought and prayer ;
while the development of religion described in Scripture, which even
now stands forth in clear outline, will be found to be unique in its
variety and completeness, and at the same time a type of the develop-
ment of religion generally. The beauty and harmony of the whole,
and the moral elevation of special parts, will gain by this natural treat-
ment, as well as by comparison with other sacred books ; and the study
will become more attractive, more inspiring, and more capable of giv-
ing; strength and consolation.
3. As to the nature of Christ. Putting aside the long controver-
sies which began in the third century, the theologian will be content
to exhibit him as he really was, and then to trace and estimate the
power which his life and spirit have exerted over mankind. The fact
that he takes human nature as the chief guide to the divine, and does
not pretend to an absolute knowledge of God, will give a new and
peculiar interest to the study of the life and influence of Christ. It
