THEOLOGY UNDER ITS CHANGED CONDITIONS. 185
assured that he was not lost but gone before. He will, with St. Paul,
take the assurance that Christ was alive after his passion as the fulfill-
ment of the general hope of immortality which Israel had long enter-
tained.
This hope of immortality was grounded on the connection of man
with God, and espacially with his moral nature ; and consequently,
after the confirmation it received by the assurance of Christs resur-
rection, it became a kind of passionate certitude. The history of the
Church, however, shows how such a passion may become a great dan-
ger and source of corruption ; and we may expect that the theolo-
gians of the future will substitute the words thrown out at a great
subject for the certitude and definitions of the past. Immortality
will be to them a great background of hope beyond the scene of pres-
ent duty.
5. The theology of sin and redemption. This is the department
of theology in which a kind of ideal dogmatism has most interfered
with truth. The ideal characters of the wicked and the just, as they
are described in Scripture, have been taken as literally existing ; and,
since men can not be ranked with the ideally righteous, they have
been taken in the mass as belonging to the ideally wicked. Each
action has been regarded as a conscious and open-eyed contradiction
of a revealed standard of right, a contradiction which is described in
the Gospel as a sin against the Holy Ghost. The false judgments, the
mutual condemnations, the hypocrisy, the strange theories of redemp-
tion, the readiness to believe in eternal torments, the ascetic practices
and unreal life which have resulted from this, could hardly be traced
out in a lifetime. The reconstruction which will be required will need
great labor. But in no department will the results be more fruitful.
They will bring theological ethics into closer alliance with general
science and practice. They will enable Christian teachers to treat all
men as brothers, and make Christianity the means by which the state
of men generally may be ameliorated.
6. The notion of the Church, the study of Church history, and the
practice of church-life will be profoundly modified when once men
realize that the Church is not necessarily a society held apart from the
rest of mankind by having different pursuits as its object, and a pe-
culiar form of government enjoined upon it. The Church will be
simply that section of mankind in which the Christian spirit reigns ;
its history will be the history of the working out of the Divine prin-
ciple in human society, with all its blessed results. The Church of
the future will make its worship bear upon the higher ends of life; or,
rather, it will teach that the true ritual is a holy life in all its depart-
ments, and thus it will merge itself more and more in general society,
being ready, in the true spirit of its Lord, to lose itself that it may
save mankind.
If we ask, in conclusion, what the prospects are as to the actual
