186 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
coming in of this better theology, there are three things which may
enable us to answer hopefully.
First, the tolerance, which has been mentioned as one of the con-
ditions under which we live, makes the path smooth before us. That
which some have dignified by the name of The New Reformation
has, we may hope, passed its stage of contention. The facts and views
which have been set forth in this paper are not opposed by any solid
array of party opinion, but rather find men in all parties who admit
them. The ground, therefore, has been cleared, and the building has
to be erected. The chief point on which our energies must be expend-
ed is Church history. This study, in its larger sense, embraces almost
the whole field. The study of Scripture itself is mainly the study of
the historical development by which the Church was prepared and
founded. The study of dogma can not be profitable unless its history
be known, and its various phases taken in combination with the cir-
cumstances of the time. And the knowledge of the progress made in
the past is the surest guide for the future. History, therefore, is the
frame in which all theological study must be set ; and the knowledge
of facts, their co-ordination and their significance, is that to which all
theological students must turn their attention. We need not give up
the hope of a full Christian philosophy, nor delay taking the initial
steps toward it. But at every turn we are dependent on a knowledge
of the path, which is as yet but imperfectly explored.
It may be asked, secondly, whether the introduction of these views
will demand any great alteration in the formularies and practices of
the Church. It is, indeed, desirable to give liberty, since tender con-
sciences are fettered by any sense of bondage ; and irritation, or need-
less pain, or incapacity, or in some cases hypocrisy, are the result. The
clergy should not be required to make any subscription at all, but
should simply be subject to the law of the system under which they
serve. In the Church services some greater facilities for substitution
and omissions would be desirable under the sanction of a competent
local authority ; and a document like the Athanasian Creed, which,
where intelligible, recalls the age of controversies and condemnations,
should not be read in the public services. But the chief adaptations
of the old to the new must be made by thoughtful men for them-
selves ; and the key to them will be found by going below the letter
and seizing upon the real meaning of the assertions made, and trans-
lating them into practice. If the divinity of Christ is identified with
his moral supremacy as a spiritual power ; if the atonement means to
us self-sacrifice, and faith a confidence in the divine righteousness ; if
absolution is the authoritative assurance of Gods forgiveness ; if elec-
tion is the endowment of a few to be the leaders of the rest in Chris-
tian devotion, we shall not find any great difficulty in the language of
the prayers and the other formularies in any of the Christian denomi-
nations.
