188 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
No eye can fail to note her, and as the nearest and most beautiful of
the Earths sisters it would seem that everybody should be as famil-
iar with her appearance as with the face of a friend. But the popular
ignorance of Venus, and the other members of the planetary family
to which our mother, the Earth, belongs, is only an index of the denser
ignorance concerning the stars the brothers of our great father, the
Sun. I believe this ignorance is largely due to mere indifference,
which, in its turn, arises from a false and pedantic method of present-
ing astronomy as a jumble of mathematical formula 1 , and a humble
handmaiden of the art of navigation. Some teachers of astronomy
are so fearful that their imagination may run away with them in the
boundless fields of the universe, that they hobble it with a chain of
ephemerides, break its jaw with a logarithmic bit, and end by earning
what they, perhaps unconsciously, seek, a niche in the temple of Dry-
as-dust. Of course, the public looks upon such things with indiffer-
ence. Understand, I do not mean to cast doubt upon the scientific
value of technical work in astronomy. The science could not exist
without it. And no reproach is intended to those who have made the
spectroscope reveal the composition of the sun and stars, and who are
now making photography picture the heavens as they are, and even re-
veal phenomena which lie beyond the range of human vision. These
are the men who have taken astronomy out of its swaddling-clothes,
and set it on its feet as a progressive science. But when one sees the
depressing and repellent effect that has evidently been produced upon
the popular mind by the ordinary methods of presenting astronomy,
one can not resist the temptation to utter a vigorous protest, and to
declare that this glorious science is not the grinning mathematical
skeleton that it has been represented to be.
Whoever will use an opera-glass, or even his naked eyes, with in-
telligence, in surveying the heavens, will quickly convince himself that
all of astronomy is not embraced in the Nautical Almanac.
In the April number of The Popular Science Monthly I pointed
out some of the most interesting objects to be seen among the stars
that adorn the sky in spring. The annual revolution of the heavens
has now carried those stars that in April shone in the western sky be-
low the horizon, while the constellations that were then in the east have
now climbed to the zenith, or passed over to the west, and a fresh set
of stars has taken their place in the east. In the present article we
shall deal with what may be called the stars of summer; and, in order
to furnish occupation for the observer with an opera-glass throughout
the summer months, I have endeavored to so choose the constellations
in which our explorations will be made, that some of them shall be
favorably situated in each of the months of June, July, and August.
The circular map represents the heavens at midnight on the 1st of
June ; at eleven oclock, on the 15th of June ; at ten oclock, on the
1st of July ; at nine oclock, on the 15th of July ; and at eight oclock,
