190 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
northeast. It would be well to begin at nine oclock, about the 1st of
June, and watch the motion of the heavens for two or three hours.
At the commencement of the observations you will find the stars in
Bootes, Virgo, and Lyra in the positions I have just mentioned, while
half-way down the western sky will be seen the Sickle of Leo (see
Popular Science Monthly for April). The brilliant Procyon and
Capella will be found almost ready to set in the west and northwest,
respectively. Between Procyon and Capella, and higher above the
horizon, shine the twin stars in Gemini, with the planets Venus and
Saturn, near each other, below them. There will be no difficulty in
recognizing Venus, for it is now brighter than any other star in the
heavens. Saturn would be regarded also as a very bright star, but for
the overpowering contrast with its more brilliant sister. Looking over
into the south, the observer will see the planet Jupiter a little east of
Spica in Virgo, and second only to Venus in brilliancy.
In an hour Saturn and Venus will be setting, and Jupiter will be
well past the meridian. In another hour the observer will perceive
that the constellations are approaching the places given to them in our
map, and at midnight he will find them all in their assigned positions.
A single evening spent in observations of this sort will teach him
more about the places of the stars than he could learn from a dozen
books.
Taking, now, the largest opera-glass you can get (I have before
said that the diameter of the object-glasses should not be less than 1*5
inch, and, I may add, the larger they are the better), find the constel-
lation Scorpio, and its chief star Antares. The map shows you where
to look for it at midnight on the 1st of June. If you prefer to begin
at nine oclock at that date, then, instead of looking directly in the
south for Scorpio, you must expect to see it just rising in the south-
east. You will recognize Antares by its fiery color, as well as by
the striking arrangement of its surrounding stars. There are few
constellations which bear so close a resemblance to the objects they
are named after as Scorpio. It does not require a very violent exer-
cise of the imagination to see in this long, winding trail of stars a
gigantic scorpion, with its head to the west, and flourishing its up-
raised sting that glitters with a pair of twin stars, as if ready to strike.
Readers of the old story of Phaetons disastrous attempt to drive the
chariot of the Sun for a day will remember it was the sight of this
threatening monster that so terrified the ambitious youth that he lost
control of Apollos horses, and came near burning the earth up by
running the Sun into it.
Antares rather gains in redness when viewed with a glass. Its
color is very remarkable, and it is a curious circumstance that with
powerful telescopes a small, bright-green star is seen apparently al-
most touching it. Antares belongs to Secchis third type of suns,
that in which the spectroscopic appearances suggest the existence of a
