192 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The object above and to the left of Antares, marked in the map 80
M., is a nebula, and although the nebula itself is too small to be seen
with an opera-glass (a field-glass shows it as a mere wisp of light), yet
there is a pretty array of small stars in its neighborhood worth look-
ing at. Besides, this nebula is of special interest, because in 1860 a
star suddenly took its place. At least, that is what seemed to have
happened. What really did occur, probably, was that a variable or
temporary star, situated between us and the nebula, and ordinarily
too faint to be perceived, received a sudden and enormous accession
of light, and blazed up so brightly as to blot out of sight the faint
nebula behind it. If this star should make its appearance again, it
could easily be seen with an opera-glass, and so it will not be useless
for the reader to know where to look for it. The quarter of the
heavens with which we are now dealing is famous for these celestial
conflagrations, if so they may be called.
We shall presently see some examples of star-clusters and nebulas
with which the instruments we are using are better capable of deal-
ing. In the mean time, let us follow the bending row of stars from
Antares toward the south and east. When you reach the star Mu (/a),
you are not unlikely to stop with an exclamation of admiration, for
the glass will separate it into two stars that, shining side by side,
seem trying to rival each other in brightness. But the next star
below fx, marked Zeta (), is even more beautiful. It also separates
into two stars, one being reddish and the other bluish in color. The
contrast in a clear night is very pleasing. But this is not all. Above
the two stars you will notice a curious nebulous speck. Now, if you
have a powerful field-glass, here is an opportunity to view one of the
prettiest sights in the heavens. The field-glass not only makes the
two stars appear brighter, and their colors more pronounced, but it
shows a third, fainter star below them, making a small triangle, and
brings other still fainter stars into sight, while the nebulous speck
above turns into a charmingly beautiful little star-cluster, whose com-
ponents are so close that their rays are inextricably
mingled in a maze of light. This little cut is an
attempt to represent the scene, but no engraving
can reproduce the life and sparkle of it.
Following the bend of the Scorpions tail up-
ward, we come to the pair of stars in the sting.
These, of course, are thrown wide apart by the
opera -glass. Then let us sweep off to the east-
ZETA SCORPIONIS. -ii-i T^-iii
ward a little way and find the cluster known as
7M. You will see it marked on the map. Above it, and near enough
to be included in the same field of view, is 6 M., a smaller cluster.
Both of these have a sparkling appearance with an opera-glass, and
by close attention some of the separate stars in 7 M. may be de-
tected. With a field-glass these clusters become much more strik-
