ASTRONOMY WITH AN OPERA-GLASS. 193
ing and starry looking, and the curious radiated structure of 7 M.
comes out.
In looking at such objects we can not too often recall to our minds
the significance of what we see that these glimmering specks are the
lights in the windows of the universe which carry to us, across incon-
ceivable tracts of space, the assurance that we and our little system
are not alone in the heavens ; that all around us, and even on the
very confines of immensity, Nature is busy, as she is here, and the laws
of light, heat, gravitation (and why not of life ?) are in full activity.
The clusters we have just been looking at lie on the borders of
Scorpio and Sagittarius. Let us cross over into the latter constella-
tion, which commemorates the centaur Chiron. We are now in anoth-
er, and even a richer, region of wonders. The Milky-Way, streaming
down out of the northeast, pours, in a luminous flood through Sagit-
tarius, inundating that whole region of the heavens with seeming
deeps and shallows, and finally bursting the barriers of the horizon
disappears, only to glow with redoubled splendor in the southern hem-
isphere. The stars Zeta (), Tau (t), Sigma (o-), Phi (/), Lambda (A.),
and Mu (/a) indicate the outlines of a figure sometimes called the
Milk-Dipper, which is very evident when the eye has once recognized
it. On either side of the upturned handle of this dipper-like figure
lie some of the most interesting objects in the sky. Let us take the
star //. for a starting-point. Sweep downward and to the right a little
way, and you will be startled by a most singular phenomenon that has
suddenly made its appearance in the field of view of your glass. You
may, perhaps, be tempted to congratulate yourself on having got
ahead of all the astronomers, and discovered a comet. It is reallv a
combination of a star-cluster with a nebula, and is known as 8 M.
Sir John Herschel has described the nebulous folds and masses and
dark oval gaps which he saw in this nebula with his large telescope
at the Cape of Good Hope. But no telescope is needed to make it
appear a wonderful object ; an opera-glass suffices for that, and a
field-glass reveals still more of its marvelous structure.
On the opposite side of the star fi that is to say, above and a little
to the left is an entirely different but almost equally attractive spec-
tacle, the swarm of stars called 24 M. Here, again, the field-glass
easily shows its superiority over the opera-glass, for magnifying power
is needed to bring out the innumerable little twinklers of which the
cluster is composed. But, whether you use an opera-glass or a field-
glass, do not fail to gaze long and steadily at this island of stars, for
much of its beauty becomes evident only after the eye has accustomed
itself to disentangle the glimmering rays with which the whole field
of view is filled. Try the method of averted vision, and hundreds of
the finest conceivable points of light will seem to spring into view out
of the depths of the sky. The necessity of a perfectly clear night,
and the absence of moonlight, can not be too much insisted upon for
