,94 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
observations such as these. Everybody knows how the moonlight
blots out the smaller stars. A slight haziness, or smoke, in the air
produces a similar effect. It is as important to the observer with an
opera-glass to have a transparent atmosphere as it is to one who would
use a telescope ; but, fortunately, the work of the former is not so
much interfered with by currents of air. Always avoid the neighbor-
hood of any bright light. Electric lights in particular are an abomi-
nation to star-gazers.
The cloud of stars we have just been looking at is in a very rich
region of the Milky -Way, in the little modern constellation called
Sobieskis Shield, which we have not placed upon our map. Sweep-
ing slowly upward from 24 M. a little way with the field-glass, we will
pass in succession over three nebulous-looking spots. The second of
these, counting upward, is the famous Horseshoe nebula. Its won-
ders are beyond the reach of our instrument, but its place may be
recognized. Look carefully all around this region, and you will per-
ceive that the old gods, who traveled this road (the Milky -Way was
sometimes called the pathway of the gods), trod upon golden sands.
Off a little way to the east you will find the rich cluster called 25 M.
But do not imagine the thousands of stars that your opera-glass or
field-glass reveals comprise all the riches of this Golconda of the
heavens. You might ply the powers of the greatest telescope in a
vain attempt to exhaust its wealth. As a hint of the wonders that
lie hidden here, let me quote Father Secchis description of a starry
spot in this same neighborhood, viewed with the great telescope at
Rome. After telling of beds of stars superposed upon one another,
and of the wonderful geometrical arrangement of the larger stars
visible in the field, he adds :
The greater number are arranged in spiral arcs, in which one can
count as many as ten or twelve stars of the ninth to the tenth mag-
nitude following one another in a curve, like beads upon a string.
Sometimes they form rays which seem to diverge from a common
focus, and, what is very singular, one usually finds, either at the cen-
ter of the rays, or at the beginning of the curve, a more brilliant star
of a red color, which seems to lead the march. It is impossible to be-
lieve that such an arrangement can be accidental.
The reader will recall the somewhat similar description that Ad-
miral Smyth and Mr. Webb have given of a star-cluster in Gemini
(see Popular Science Monthly for April).
The groups of stars forming the eastern half of the constellation
of Sagittarius are worth sweeping over with the glass, as a number
of pretty pairs may be found there.
Next let us pass to the double constellation adjoining Scorpio and
Sagittarius on the north Ophiuchus and the Serpent. These constel-
lations, as our map shows, are curiously intermixed. The imagination
of the old star-gazers, who named them, saw here the figure of a giant
