THE NATURAL VERSUS THE SUPERNATURAL, n
the case of Paul, was not genuine. It was genuine to them, but it
was entirely a subjective phenomenon, like the faith-cures we now
often bear about ; it was the power of the imagination working upon
the conscience. It is not a necessary or universal experience, even
among religious people. It may be said without any irreverence that
it has gone out of fashion. The predisposition for that kind of ex-
perience no longer exists. The belief in witchcraft, says Milman,
made people fancy themselves witches, and the belief in the efficacy
of sudden conversions led to these sorts of moral and spiritual earth-
quakes.
Science looks upon religion as belonging to the sphere of the
natural ; it is the legitimate outcome of mans moral nature ; the term
that best expresses the complete development and flowering of all his
faculties. To define it in the guarded terms which Principal Tulloch
uses, namely, as an inner power of Divine mystery awakening the
conscience, is to make it something external to man and more or less
arbitrary and theological. This view the world has long clung to,
but it must go is going. The Biblical writers had no theology ; the
Bible is strictly a religious book, and in no sense a theological treatise.
Paul developed or outlined some theological notions ; but wherein
was Paul great in his theology, or in his religious fervor ; in his
notions of predestination, or in his aspirations after righteousness ?
Jesus is as free from any theological bias as a child is from metaphys-
ics. He taught but one thing, namely, that the kingdom of heaven
is in the condition of the heart, a condition illustrated by his own life.
The vast and elaborate system of theology which grew up out of his
parables and his Orientalism, and overshadowed the world for fifteen
hundred years or more, and begat some of the darkest crimes the his-
tory of man has to show, is as far from his spirit and that of his dis-
ciples as the east is from the west.
Undoubtedly, religion knows certain things in a more intimate and
personal way than science does; so does poetry, so does literature; and
science can understand how this is so. What we receive through the
emotions is more vital and personal to us than what reaches us through
the reason. The person in whose mind has been awakened a deep love
of Christ, comes to know Christ in a way the mere outside observer
does not ; his spirit takes hold of the Christ-idea, and is filled and
modified by it to an extent the other is not. An emotional process is
more potent than a rational process. The knowledge thus gained is
no more truly knowledge, but it is more vital knowledge. It is not
merely conviction ; it is attraction and affiliation as well. But this is
true not of Christ merely ; it is true of the whole range of our experi-
ence. If the flower, or the bird, or the rock awaken no emotion in the
obseiwer, will he ever come truly to know it ? Unless we love an
author, can we ever get at his deepest and most precious meaning?
Hence Goethe said, We learn to know nothing but what we love.
