200 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
less than 3. The star Beta (/3) is remarkably variable in brightness.
You may watch these variations, which run through a regular period
of about 12 days, 21f hours, for yourself. The star will be at its
minimum of brightness on June 7th and 20th ; July 3d, 15th, and
28th ; August 10th and 23d. Between Beta and Gamma (y) lies the
beautiful Ring nebula, but it is hopelessly beyond the reach of the
optical means we are employing.
Let us turn next to the stars in the west. In consulting the ac-
companying map of Virgo and Bootes, the observer is supposed to
face the southwest, at the hours and dates mentioned above as those
to which the circular map corresponds. He will then see the bright
star Spica in Virgo not far above the horizon, while Arcturus will be
half-way up the sky, and the Northern Crown will be near the zenith.
The planet Jupiter will be close to Spica, and will completely out-
shine it. In fact, during the whole summer, this fine star will be to a
considerable extent robbed of its brilliance by the proximity of the
great planet. The reader may find it convenient to mark the place of
Jupiter on the map just to the left of Spica.
The constellation Virgo is an interesting one in mythological story.
Aratus tells us that the Virgins home was once on earth, where she
bore the name of Justice and in the golden age all men obeyed her.
In the silver age her visits to men became less frequent, no longer
finding the spirits of former days ; and, finally, when the brazen age
came with the clangor of war :
Justice, loathing that race of men,
Winged her flight to heaven ; and fixed
Her station in that region
Where still by night is seen
The Virgin goddess near to bright Bootes.
The chief star of Virgo, Spica, is remarkable for its pure white light.
To my eye there is no conspicuous star in the sky equal to it in this
respect, and it gains in beauty when viewed with a glass. With the
aid of the map the reader will find the celebrated binary star Gamma
(y) Virginis, although he will not be able to separate its components
without a telescope. It is a curious fact that the star Epsilon (c) in
Virgo has for many ages been known as the Grape-Gatherer. It has
borne this name in Greek, in Latin, in Persian, and in Arabic, the
origin of the appellation undoubtedly being that it was observed to rise
just before the sun in the season of the vintage. It will be observed
that the stars e, 8, y, -q, and (3, mark two sides of a quadrilateral figure
of which the opposite corner is indicated by Denebola in the tail of
Leo. AVithin this quadrilateral lies the marvelous Field of the Nebu-
la?, a region where with adequate optical power one may find hundreds
of these strange objects thronging together, a very storehouse of the
germs of suns and worlds. Unfortunately, these nebulae are far be-
