2o 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
iants as Vega and Arcturus shows how wide is the range of magni-
tude among the suns that light the universe. The actual distance of
61 Cygni is something like 050,000 times as great as the distance from
the earth to the sun.
The star Omicron (o) is very interesting with an opera-glass. The
naked eye sees a little star near it. The glass throws them wide
apart, and divides o itself into two stars. Now, a field-glass, if of
sufficient power, will divide the larger of these stars again into two
a fine test.
Sweep around a and y for the splendid star-fields that abound in
this neighborhood ; also around the upper part of the figure of the
cross. We are here in one of the richest parts of the Milky-Way.
Between the stars a, y, e, is the strange dark gap in the galaxy called
the Coal-Sack, a sort of hole in the starry heavens. Although it is
not entirely empty of stars, its blackness is striking in contrast with
the brilliancy of the Milky- Way in this neighborhood. The divergent
streams of the great river of light in this region present a very remark-
able appearance.
Finally, we come to the great dragon of the sky. In using the
map of Draco and the neighboring constellations, the reader is sup-
posed to face the north. The upper edge of the center of the map is
directly over the observers head. One of the stories told of this large
constellation is that it represents a dragon that had the temerity to
war against Minerva. The goddess seized it in her hand, and hurled
it, twisted as it was, into the heavens round the axis of the world, be-
fore it had time to unwind its contortions. Others say it is the dragon
that guarded the golden apples in the Garden of the Ilesperides, and
that was slain by the redoubtable Hercules. At any rate, it is plainly
a monster of the first magnitude. The stars /?, y, , v, and fx represent
its head, while its body runs trailing along, first sweeping in a long
curve toward Cepheus, and then bending around and passing between
the two bears. Try v with your opera-glass, and if you succeed in see-
ing it double you may congratulate yourself on your keen sight. The
distance between the stars is about 1. Notice the contrasted colors
of y and (3, the former being a rich orange and the latter white. As
you sweep along the winding way that Draco follows, you will run
across many striking fields of stars, although the heavens are not as
rich here as in the splendid regions that we have just left. You will
also find that Cepheus, although not an attractive constellation to the
naked eye, is worth some attention with an opera-glass. It, however,
sinks into insignificance in comparison with its neighbor Cassiopeia,
but that constellation belongs rather to the autumn sky, and we shall
pass it by here.
The reader will find it both interesting and instructive to w r atch
the movements of Venus through the summer. On June 1st as we
have seen, Venus will be near Saturn in the constellation Gemini. But
