206 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
members of his little family of four moons may occasionally be caught
sight of. With an opera-glass not more than one or two of these can
be seen as excessively minute dots of light half-hidden in the glare of
the planet. If you succeed under favorable circumstances in seeing
one of these moons with your glass,
you will be all the more astonished
to learn that there are several appar-
ently well-authenticated instances of
one of the moons of Jupiter having
been seen with the naked eye.
With a field-glass, however, you
will have no difficulty in seeing all
of the moons when they are properly
situated. If you miss one or more
of them, you may know that it is
either between you and the planet,
or behind the planet, or buried in
Jttpitkr and his Moons. (Seen with a the p l ane ts shadow, Or else SO close
field-glasa ; power, six diameters.) r w ^ ^wv,
to the planet as to be concealed by
its radiance. For the convenience of the beginner, I will indicate the
positions of Jupiters moons for several evenings in June, based upon
the Nautical Almanac predictions ; the time of observation is sup-
posed to be 10.30 oclock p. m. :
On June 1st all four satellites will be visible with a good field-
glass, one being on the eastern and the other three on the western
side of the planet, two of the latter appearing close together like a
double star.
On June 2d the satellites will all be on the western side, two of
them being pretty close to the planet and also close together, while
the others are more distant and wide apart.
On June 6th all four will be on the eastern side of Jupiter, and
three of them, besides being near the planet, will be close together in a
slanting row. It will require close watching with a fine glass to see
them all, but the spectacle will be well worth some painstaking on the
part of the observer.
On June 8th two will be on one side and two on the other, the two
on the west being close together, while those on the east are widely
separated.
On June 14th two will be close together on the east, while one is
visible on the west, and the fourth, the outermost of the system, is
passing just above the north pole of the planet, and so close that it
will probably be beyond the ability even of a powerful field-glass to
detect it.
On June 17th there will be a very good opportunity for the inex-
perienced observer to see all four of the satellites, as two will be on
each side of the planet and all will be well separated.
