SCIENCE AND PSEUDO-SCIENCE. 207
On June 22d one satellite will be on the east of Jupiter, and the
other three on the west, all in a bunch, and close to the planet.
Of course, since the motions of the satellites, particularly of the
inner ones, are very rapid, their positions are continually changing,
and their configurations are different every night. I have merely
indicated their places for a few evenings, in order that the observer
may be able to recognize the satellites when he sees them. If he has
any doubt about his identification of them, or thinks they may be
little stars, he has only to carefully note their position and then look
at them again the next evening. He may even notice their motion in
the course of a single evening, if he begins early and follows them for
three or four hours.
+
SCIENCE AND PSEUDO-SCIENCE.
By Professor T. H. HUXLEY.
IN the opening sentences of a contribution to the last number of
this Review, the Duke of Argyll has favored me with a lecture on
the proprieties of controversy, to which I should be disposed to listen
with more docility if his Graces precepts appeared to me to be based
upon rational principles, or if his example were more exemplary.
With respect to the latter point, the duke has thought fit to entitle
his article Professor Huxley on Canon Liddon, and thus forces
into prominence an element of personality which those who read the
paper which is the object of the dukes animadversions will observe
I have endeavored, most carefully, to avoid. My criticisms dealt
with a report of a sermon, published in a newspaper, and thereby
addressed to all the world. Whether that sermon was preached by A
or B was not a matter of the smallest consequence ; and I went out
of my way to absolve the learned divine to whom the discourse was
attributed from the responsibility for statements which, for anything
I knew to the contrary, might contain imperfect, or inaccurate, repre-
sentations of his views. The assertion that I had the wish or was
beset by any temptation to attack Canon Liddon is simply contrary
to fact.
But suppose that if, instead of sedulously avoiding even the ap-
pearance of such attack, I had thought fit to take a different course ;
suppose that, after satisfying myself that the eminent clergyman
whose name is paraded by the Duke of Argyll had really uttered the
words attributed to him from the pulpit of St. Pauls, what right
would any one have to find fault with my action on grounds either
of justice, expediency, or good taste ?
Establishment has its duties as well as its rights. The clergy of
a state Church enjoy many advantages over those of unprivileged
and unendowed religious persuasions, but they lie under a correlative
