208 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
responsibility to the state, and to every member of the body politic.
I am not aware that any sacredness attaches to sermons. If preachers
stray beyond the doctrinal limits set by lay lawyers, the Privy Council
will see to it ; and, if they think fit to use their pulpits for the pro-
mulgation of literary, or historical, or scientific errors, it is not only
the right, but the duty, of the humblest layman, who may happen to
be better informed, to correct the evil effects of such perversion of the
opportunities which the state affords them and such misuse of the
authority which its support lends them. Whatever else it may claim
to be, in its relations with the state, the Established Church is a
branch of the civil service ; and, for those who repudiate the ecclesi-
astical authority of the clergy, they are merely civil servants, as much
responsible to the English people for the proper performance of their
duties as any others.
The Duke of Argyll tells us that the work and calling of the
clergy prevent them from pursuing disputation as others can. I
wonder if his Grace ever reads the so-called religious newspapers ? It
is not an occupation which I should commend to any one who wishes
to employ his time profitably ; but a very short devotion to this ex-
ercise will suffice to convince him that the pursuit of disputation,
carried to a degree of acrimony and vehemence unsurpassed in lay
controversies, seems to be found quite compatible with the work and
calling of a remarkably large number of the clergy.
Finally, it appears to me that nothing can be in worse taste than
the assumption that a body of English gentlemen can, by any possibil-
ity, desire that immunity from criticism which the Duke of Argyll
claims for them. Nothing would be more personally offensive to me
than the supposition that I shirked criticism, just or unjust, of any
lecture I ever gave. I should be utterly ashamed of myself if, when
I stood up as an instructor of others, I had not taken every pains to
assure myself of the truth of that which I was about to say ; and I
should feel myself bound to be even more careful with a popular
assembly, who would take me more or less on trust, than with an audi-
ence of competent and critical experts.
I decline to assume that the standard of morality, in these matters,
is lower among the clergy than it is among scientific men. I refuse
to think that the priest who stands up before a congregation as the
minister and interpreter of the Divinity is less careful in his utter-
ances, less ready to meet adverse comment, than the layman who
comes before his audience as the minister and interpreter of Nature.
Yet what should we think of the man of science who, when his igno-
rance or his carelessness was exposed, whined about the want of deli-
cacy of his critics, or pleaded his work and calling as a reason for
being let alone ?
No man, nor any body of men, is good enough, or wise enough, to
dispense with the tonic of criticism. Nothing has done more harm
