zio THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
And now comes a further surprise. After having given these
superfluous stabs to the slain body of the preachers argument, my
good ally remarks, with magnificent calmness, So far, then, the
preacher and the professor are at one. . . . Let them smoke the calu-
met. By all means : smoke would be the most appropriate symbol
of this wonderful attempt to cover a retreat. After all, the duke has
come to bury the preacher, not to praise him ; only he makes the
funeral obsequies look as much like a triumphal procession as possible.
So far as the questions between the preacher and myself are con-
cerned, then, I may feel happy. The authority of the Duke of Argyll
is ranged on my side. But the duke has raised a number of other
questions, with respect to which I fear I shall have to dispense with
his support nay even be compelled to differ from him as much as or
more than I have done about his Graces new rendering of the bene-
fit of clergy.
In discussing catastrophes, the duke indulges in statements, partly
scientific, partly anecdotic, which appear to me to be somewhat mis-
leading. We are told, to begin with, that Sir Charles Lyells doctrine
respecting the proper mode of interpreting the facts of geology (which
is commonly called uniformitarianism) does not hold its head quite
so high as it once did. That is great news indeed. But is it true ?
All I can say is that I am aware of nothing that has happened of late
that can in any way justify it ; and my opinion is, that the body of
Lyells doctrine, as laid down in that great work, The Principles of
Geology, whatever may have happened to its head, is a chief and
permanent constituent of the foundations of geological science.
But this question can not be advantageously discussed, unless we
take some pains to discriminate between the essential part of the uni-
formitarian doctrine and its accessories ; and it does not appear that
the Duke of Argyll has carried his studies of geological philosophy so
far as this point. For he defines uniformitarianism to be the assump-
tion of the extreme slowness and perfect continuity of all geological
changes.
What perfect continuity may mean in this definition, I am by
no means sure ; but I can only imagine that it signifies the absence of
any break in the course of natural order during the millions of years,
the lapse of which is recorded by geological phenomena.
Is the Duke of Argyll prepared to say that any geologist of author-
ity, at the present day, believes that there is the slightest evidence of
the occurrence of supernatural intervention, during the long ages of
which the monuments are preserved to us in the crust of the earth ?
And if he is not, in what sense has this part of the uniformitarian doc-
trine, as he defines it, lowered its pretensions to represent scientific
truth ?
As to the extreme slowness of all geological changes, it is simply
a popular error to regard that as, in any wise, a fundamental and
