214 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in which we speak of laws of Nature, commenced, but examples of it
may be found in the works of Bacon, Descartes, and Spinoza. Bacon
employs law as the equivalent of form, and I am inclined to
think that he may be responsible for a good deal of the confusion that
has subsequently arisen ; but I am not aware that the term is used by
other authorities, in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, in any
other sense than that of rule or definite order of the coexistence
of things or succession of events in Nature. Descartes speaks of re-
gies, que je nomine les lois de la nature. Leibnitz says loi ou r6gle
generate, as if he considered the terms interchangeable.
The Duke of Argyll, however, affirms that the law of gravita-
tion as put forth by Newton was something more than the statement
of an observed order. He admits that Keplers three laws were an
observed order of facts and nothing more. As to the law of gravi-
tation, it contains an element which Keplers laws did not contain,
even an element of causation, the recognition of which belongs to a
higher category of intellectual conceptions than that which is con-
cerned in the mere observation and record of separate and apparently
unconnected facts. There is hardly a line in these paragraphs which
appears to me to be indisputable. But, to confine myself to the matter
in hand, I can not conceive that any one who had taken ordinary
pains to acquaint himself with the real nature of either Keplers or
Newtons work could have written them. That the labors of Kepler,
of all men in the world, should be called mere observation and rec-
ord, is truly wonderful. And any one who will look into the Prin-
cipia, or the Optics, or the Letters to Bentley, will see, even if
he has no more special knowledge of the topics discussed than I have,
that Newton over and over again insisted that he had nothing to do
with gravitation as a physical cause, and that when he used the terms
attraction, force, and the like, he employed them, as he says, mathe-
matice and not physice
How these attractions [of gravity, magnetism, and electricity] may be per-
formed, I do not here consider. What I call attraction may be performed by
impulse or by some other means unknown to me. I use that word here to sig-
nify only in a general way any force by which bodies tend toward one another,
whatever be the cause.*
According to my reading of the best authorities upon the history
of science, Newton discovered neither gravitation nor the law of
gravitation ; nor did he pretend to offer more than a conjecture as to
the causation of gravitation. Moreover, his assertion that the notion
of a body acting where it is not, is one that no competent thinker
could entertain, is antagonistic to the whole current conception of at-
tractive and repulsive forces, and therefore of the attractive force of
gravitation. What, then, was that labor of unsurpassed magnitude
and excellence and immortal influence which Newton did perform ?
* Optics, query 31.
