2i 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Newton assuredly lent no shadow of support to the modern pseudo-
scientific philosophy which confounds laws with causes. I have not
taken the trouble to trace out this commonest of fallacies to its first
beginning ; but I was familiar with it in full bloom, more than forty
years ago, in a work which had a great vogue in its day the Vesti-
ges of the Natural History of Creation of which the first edition
was published in 1844.
It is full of apt and forcible illustrations of pseudo-scientific real-
ism. Consider, for example, this gem serene : When a boy who has
climbed a tree looses his hold of the branch, the law of gravitation
unrelentingly pulls him to the ground, and then he is hurt, whereby
the Almighty is quite relieved from any responsibility for the acci-
dent. Here is the law of gravitation acting as a cause, in a way
quite in accordance with the Duke of Argylls conception of it. In
fact, in the mind of the author of the Vestiges, laws are exist-
ences intermediate between the Creator and his works, like the ideas
of the Platonizers or the Logos of the Alexandrians.* I may cite a
passage which is quite in the vein of Philo :
We have seen powerful evidences that the construction of this globe and its
associates, and, inferentially, that of all the other globes in space, was the result,
not of any immediate or personal exertion on the part of the Deity, but of natu-
ral laws which are the expression of his will. What is to hinder our supposing
that the organic creation is also a result of natural laws which are in like man-
ner an expression of his will? (p. 154, first edition).
And creation operating by law is constantly cited as relieving the
Creator from trouble about insignificant details.
I am perplexed to picture to myself the state of mind -which ac-
cepts these verbal juggleries. It is intelligible that the Creator should
operate according to such rules as he might think fit to lay down for
himself (and, therefore, according to law) ; but that would leave the
operation of his will just as much a direct personal act as it would be
under any other circumstances. I can also understand that (as in
Leibnitzs caricature of Newtons views) the Creator might have made
the cosmical machine, and, after setting it going, have left it to itself
till it needed repair. But then, by the supposition, his personal re-
sponsibility would have been involved in all that it did, just as much
as a dynamiter is responsible for what happens when he has set his
machine going and left it to explode.
The only hypothesis which gives a sort of mad consistency to the
Vestigiarians views is the supposition that laws are a kind of angels
or demiurgoi, who, being supplied with the Great Architects plan,
were permitted to settle the details among themselves. Accepting
this doctrine, the conception of royal laws and plebeian laws, and of
these more than Homeric contests in which the big laws wreck the
* The author recognizes this in his Explanations.
