218 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But let us examine the consequences of the really interesting t .^po-
sition I have just quoted. I presume that it is a law of Nature that a
straight line is the shortest distance between two points. This law
affirms the constant association of a certain fact of form with a certain
fact of dimension. Whether the notion of necessity which attaches
to it has an a 2^iori or an a posteriori origin is a question not relevant
to the present discussion. But I would beg to be informed, if it is
necessary, where is the compelling force out of which the necessity
arises ; and, further, if it is not necessary, whether it loses the charac-
ter of a law of Nature ?
I take it to be a law of Nature, based on unexceptionable evidence,
that the mass of matter remains unchanged, whatever chemical or other
modifications it may undergo. This law is one of the foundations of
chemistry. But it is by no means necessary. It is quite possible to
imagine that the mass of matter should vary according to circum-
stances, as we know its weight does. Moreover, the determination of
the force which makes mass constant (if there is any intelligibility
in that form of words) would not, so far as I can see, confer any more
validity on the law than it has now.
There is a law of Nature, so well vouched by experience that all
mankind, from pure logicians in search of examples to parish sextons
in search of fees, confide in it. This is the law that all men are
mortal. It is simply a statement of the observed order of facts that
all men sooner or later die. I am not acquainted with any law of
Nature which is more constant and uniform than this. But will
any one tell me that death is necessary? Certainly there is no a
})riori necessity in the case, for various men have been imagined to be
immortal. And I should be glad to be informed of any necessity
that can be deduced from biological considerations. It is quite con-
ceivable, as has recently been pointed out, that some of the lowest
forms of life may be immortal, after a fashion. However this may be,
I would further ask, supposing all men are mortal to be a real law
of Nature, where and what is that to which, Avith any propriety, the
title of compelling force of the law can be given ?
On page GO, the Duke of Argyll asserts that the law of gravitation
is a law in the sense not merely of a rule but of a cause. But this
revival of the teaching of the Vestiges has already been examined
and disposed of ; and, when the Duke of Argyll states that the ob-
served order, which Kepler had discovered, was simply a necessary
consequence of the force of gravitation, I need not recapitulate the
evidence which proves such a statement to be wholly fallacious. But
it may be useful to say once more that, at this present moment, nobody
knows anything about the existence of a force of gravitation apart
from the fact ; that Newton declared the ordinary notion of such force
to be inconceivable ; that various attempts have been made to account
for the order of facts we call gravitation, without recourse to the no-
