SCIENCE AND PSEUDO-SCIENCE. 221
The Duke of Argyll may not be aware of the fact, but it is never-
theless true, that when a mans arm is raised, in sequence to that state
of consciousness we call a volition, the volition is not the immediate
cause of the elevation of the arm. On the contrary, that operation is
effected by a certain change of form, technically known as contrac-
tion in sundry masses of flesh, technically known as muscles, which
are fixed to the bones of the shoulder in such a manner that, if these
muscles contract, they must raise the arm. Now, each of these mus-
cles is a machine, in a certain sense, comparable to one of the donkey-
engines of a steamship, but more complete, inasmuch as the source of
its ability to change its form, or contract, lies within itself. Every
time that, by contracting, the muscle does work, such as that involved
in raising the arm, more or less of the material which it contains is
used up, just as more or less of the fuel of a steam-engine is used up,
when it does work. And I do not think there is a doubt in the mind
of any competent physicist or physiologist that the work done in lifting
the weight of the arm is the mechanical equivalent of a certain propor-
tion of the energy set free by the molecular changes which take place
in the muscle. It is further a tolerably well-based belief that this, and
all other forms of energy, are mutually convertible, and therefore that
they all come under that general law or statement of the order of
facts called the conservation of energy. And, as that certainly is an
abstraction, so the view which the Duke of Argyll thinks so extremely
absurd is really one of the commonplaces of physiology. But this
Review is hardly an appropriate place for giving instruction in the
elements of that science, and I content myself with recommending the
Duke of Argyll to devote some study to Book II, Chapter V, section
4, of my friend Dr. Fosters excellent Text-Book of Physiology (first
edition, 1877, p. 321), which begins thus :
Broadly speaking, the animal body is a machine for converting potential into
actual energy. The potential energy is supplied by the food ; this the metabo-
lism of the body converts into the actual energy of heat and mechanical labor.
There is no more difficult problem in the world than that of the
relation of the state of consciousness, termed volition, to the mechani-
cal work which frequently follows upon it. But no one can even com-
prehend the nature of the problem who has not carefully studied the
long series of modes of motion which, without a break, connect the
energy which does that work with the general store of energy. The
ultimate form of the problem is this : Have we any reason to believe
that a feeling, or state of consciousness, is capable of directly affect-
ing the motion of even the smallest conceivable molecule of matter ?
Is such a thing even conceivable ? If we answer these questions in
the negative, it follows that volition may be a sign, but can not be a
cause of bodily motion. If we answer them in the affirmative, then
states of consciousness become undistinguishable from material things ;
