SCIENCE AND PSEUDO-SCIENCE. 223
ror or the Revolt. In fact, the scientific world laughs most indeco-
rously at the notion of the existence of either ; and some are so lost to
the sense of the scientific dignity, that they descend to the use of
transatlantic slang, and call it a bogus scare. As to my friend Mr.
Herbert Spencer, I have every reason to know that, in the Factors
of Organic Evolution, he has said exactly what was in his mind, with-
out any particular deference to the opinions of the person whom he is
pleased to regard as his most dangerous critic and devils advocate-
general, and still less of any one else.
I do not know whether the Duke of Argyll pictures himself as the
Tallien of this imaginary revolt against a no less imaginary Reign of
Terror. But if so, I most respectfully but firmly decline to join his
forces. It is only a few weeks since I happened to read over again
the first article which I ever wrote (now twenty-seven years ago) on
the Origin of Species, and I found nothing that I wished to modify
in the opinions that are there expressed, though the subsequent vast
accumulation of evidence in favor of Mr. Darwins views would give
me much to add. As is the case with all new doctrines, so with that
of evolution, the enthusiasm of advocates has sometimes tended to
degenerate into fanaticism, and mere speculation has, at times, threat-
ened to shoot beyond its legitimate bounds. I have occasionally
thought it wise to warn the more adventurous spirits among us
against these dangers, in sufficiently plain language ; and I have
sometimes jestingly said that I expected, if I lived long enough, to
be looked on as a reactionary by some of my more ardent friends.
But nothing short of midsummer madness can account for the fiction
that I am waiting till it is safe to join openly a revolt, hatched by
some person or persons unknown, against an intellectual movement
with which I am in the most entire and hearty sympathy. It is a
great many years since, at the outset of my career, I had to think seri-
ously what life had to offer that was worth having. I came to the
conclusion that the chief good, for me, was freedom to learn, think,
and say what I pleased, when I pleased. I have acted on that convic-
tion, and have availed myself of the rara temporum felicitas ubi sen-
tire qua? velis, et quae sentias dicere licet, which is now enjoyable, to
the best of my ability ; and though strongly, and perhaps wisely,
warned that I should, probably come to grief, I am entirely satisfied
with the results of the line of action I have adopted.
My career is at an end
I have warmed both hands at the fire of life ;
and nothing is left me, before I depart, but to help, or at any rate to
abstain from hindering, the younger generation of men of science in
doing better service to the cause we have at heart, than I have been
able to render.
And yet, forsooth, I am supposed to be waiting for the signal of
revolt, which some fiery spirits among these young men are to raise
u
