224 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
before I dare express my real opinions concerning questions about
which we older men had to fight, in the teeth of fierce public opposi-
tion and obloquy of something which might almost justify even the
grandiloquent epithet of a Reign of Terror before our excellent suc-
cessors had left school.
It would appear that the spirit of pseudo-science has impregnated
even the imagination of the Duke of Argyll. The scientific imagina-
tion always restrains itself within the limits of probability. Nine-
teenth Century.
*
GOFIO: FOOD AND PHYSIQUE.
By C. FAYETTE TAYLOE, M. D.
ON a recent visit to the Canary Islands, one of the first things to
attract my notice was the good development and fine personal
appearance of the common people. I afterward found that travelers
are generally impressed in the same manner on their first visit to the
Canaries. If they have previously visited the Spanish Peninsula, they
are apt to contrast the native Spaniards with their Canarian relatives,
always in favor of the latter, whose greater height and better bodily
forms are very evident. This superiority may be due, in a certain de-
gree, to the admixture of the Spanish blood with that of the Guanche
race, which was found in possession, when, in 1440, the Spanish under-
took the conquest of the Canarian Archipelago. It required more than
fifty years for the purpose, and not until, to the utmost efforts of Spain,
then in the height of her power, the treachery of four native kings had
been added, did all the seven islands come under Spanish rule. The
old chroniclers are fond of describing the mild and sweet dispositions
of the Guanches, their tall, manly figures, and noble bearing in time
of peace, as well as their great strength and valor when fighting to
preserve their ancient liberty.
Even the women took part against the invaders, and proved them-
selves, in daring and prowess, no mean antagonists. One woman is
especially mentioned who rushed upon an advancing column, seized
the foremost soldier and fled up the mountain, bearing her victim as if
he had been a child, outstripping her pursuers, till, coming to a preci-
pice, she leaped down and both were dashed to pieces.
The conquerors not only mingled their blood with the conquered,
as happens with the Latin races, but they adopted many of their cus-
toms, some of which are preserved to the present time. Perhaps the
most important of these is in relation to their food, the principal arti-
cle of w T hich is of Guanche origin.
I have alluded to the excellent bodily development and proportions
of the modern Canarians, and to the testimony left by the old chroni-
clers to the still fine characteristics of the ancient Guanches, who are
