i 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
thaumaturgical aids. It is beginning to hear God in the still small
voice ; not in the tempest, or in the earthquake, or the fire ; not in
the marvelous, the extraordinary, the irrational, but in the quiet and
familiar facts of Nature and of life. The vulgar mind asks for a sign,
a wonder ; but science has no sign, no wonder to show. It points to
the simplest fact. Its relation toward the old theology is like that
of Elisha toward Naarnan. When Naaman came to the prophet to be
cured of his leprosy, he expected Elisha to do some wonderful thing,
some miracle. Behold, I thought, He will surely come out to me, and
stand, and call on the name of the Lord his God, and strike his hand
over the place, and recover the leper. Instead of which the prophet
simply told him to go and wash seven times in the Jordan and be
clean. My father, said his servant to the indignant Naaman, if
the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have
done it ? how much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be
clean ?
The leprosy of the miraculous which taints mens minds is to be
got rid of in the same way : wash and be clean in the current of the
sweet-flowing Nature that is always near at hand, and that is always
and everywhere the same.
TEESENT STATUS OF THE GREEK QUESTION.
Br EDMUND J. JAMES,
PROFESSOR OF PUBLIC FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.
THE recent action of the Harvard College authorities, in striking
Greek from the list of studies required for the degree of A. B.
marks an era in the history of college education in this country. The
long struggle, which has been carried on at times w r ith much bitterness
between the classical and modern party, has been distinctly advanced
one stage toward a final settlement. The adherents of the classical
course have strenuously claimed for it a marked superiority over all
others, and have uniformly resisted any attempt to change or supplant
it. The friends of the new studies have as vigorously contended that
it is perfectly possible to construct a curriculum which, w T hile omitting
some of the specific subjects before included and substituting others for
them, should still as fully deserve the name liberal as the old course.
The struggle has assumed different forms at different times. At
one period it was simply an attempt on the part of those who thought
modern subjects worthy of recognition beside the antiquities to secure
for them some place in the college curriculum. This demand, modest
as it was, was resisted with the same obstinacy as that which has char-
acterized the opposition to later and far more sweeping demands. It
was a great day for American education when modern subjects, such
as the natural and physical sciences, history, English and other modern
