226 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
eaten. The preparation occupies no appreciable time. The winter
before last I saw one or two hundred Italian workmen repairing the
retaining wall to a river, and had reason to admire both their industry
and their simple, frugal habits. As the mid-day hour approached, one
of a gang of ten or twelve men would step aside and prepare the din-
ner. It nearly always consisted of polenta, or Indian -corn meal
boiled in water. It took the best part of an hour to prepare it, and
there was also the trouble of kettles, fires, providing wood, besides
many antecedent preparations, even when cooking was thus reduced
to its simplest proportions. The Canarian laborer has no such trouble.
The roasting of the grain is more quickly done than cooking polenta,
and can be prepared in larger quantity by the wife at home.
The grinding is the same in both cases, but gofio has the great
advantage of being easily carried about the person in a bag, and ig
always ready to be eaten. It is also much more palatable. The
Canarian Archipelago consists of seven inhabited islands with a popu-
lation of two hundred and forty thousand persons. From the best
information I could get, I should think that fully two hundred thou-
sand of them live almost exclusively on gofio, as their fathers have
done before them, including their Guanche predecessors, from time
immemorial. I have been thus particular in giving, in some detail,
the origin, preparation, and importance of gofio in sustaining a large
population, because I believe this article to be worthy of attention on
the part of purveyers of farinaceous foods. If introduced into the
United States, it would add a delicious, wholesome, and highly nutri-
tious article of food, very convenient to use, to our already large vari-
ety. But gofio has other claims to our attention and favor than its
economy, convenience, and evident highly nutritive qualities.
Finding it used, not only by the common people, for whom it con-
stitutes the chief article of sustenance as already stated, but also in
the homes of the wealthier citizens, children being especially fond of
and thriving well on it, I tried specimens of both wheat and maize
gofio and found them very palatable the maize especially so, hav-
ing a delicious, aromatic flavor which soon made me prefer it to
bread, especially in the morning. Very soon gofio, with a soft-boiled
egg, goats milk, and coffee, constituted a satisfactory breakfast. In
fact, I liked it so well, and found it so digestible and nutritious, that
I kept to it and throve on it till, at the end of two months, it occurred
to me that during that time there had been no instance of acid
stomach to which, in the best of times, I had always been subject.
I left Teneriffe soon after, and during the voyage, and for some time
after landing in the West Indies, the gofio-breakfast was suspended.
After some weeks without it, the acidity returned very severely, owing
to exposure and fatigue. And, as usual, acidity once established, per-
sistently continued. After suffering several days I thought of the
gofio, a small quantity of which we had brought from Teneriffe. On
