230 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
some industries the tendency is one way, and in some the other. In
still others it is merely a question of how much of the work each con-
tributor shall do. Shall the iron-master buy his iron in the bar, in the
pig, or in the ore ? Shall the woolen manufacturer buy his wool in
the crude web, in the yarn, or in the fleece ? Fifty years ago it was
quite common for the same family to rear and shear the sheep, wash
the fleece, card it, spin it, weave it, color it, and make it into clothing
though different members of the family attended to different parts
of the work. That was a combination of the second form. At present
wool-growing and woolen-manufacturing are separated. Sometimes
the spinning and weaving are separated. As a rule, the weaving and
making are separated.
It is into this third form of combination that what is called exchange
enters. Exchange is so important a phenomenon that political economy
is often called the science of exchanges. This definition, as we now
see, narrows its field. The real subject-matter of political economy is
the mutual helpfulness of human beings in making a living. Exchange
is only one of the ways of making this helpfulness effective. None the
less, persons between whom exchange is hindered or prohibited are to
that extent kept from helping one another to make a living. The
wool-grower and the sheep-shearer are just as truly engaged in the
production of cloth as the weaver. If the wool-grower is prohibited
from furnishing wool to the weaver, it is plain that both are hindered
in their joint work.
4. In the fourth form of combination, also, exchange prevails as a
pi-ominent feature. But here we take leave of one feature which has
thus far characterized all forms of combination. It is unity of f)roduct.
Each party now completes his product, ready to enter into the living
of a fellow-being. One hunts and the other fishes, and the hunter
trades game for fish. Each then has for his supper a variety consist-
ing of game and fish. Rarely, indeed, is the exchange so simple as
this. In civilized societies it is highly complex, and its problems baffle
the best of brains. If we sit down to a meal, we find that one set of
men have furnished us the table, another set the table-cloth, another
the dishes, another the silver, another the bread, another the butter,
another the pepper, another the salt, another the sugar, another the
coffee, another this, and another that, until a score of groups and thou-
sands of persons might be counted, all of whom have helped us to get
our dinner to make our living.
5. There is a fifth form of combination, more simple than the third
or fourth, and yet in one sense more complex. In this the service ren-
dered on one side is direct, and on the other indirect. There is no ex-
change of products, and, in fact, generally no product. The physician,
the minister, the lawyer, the teacher, and the housemaid, all help us in
making a living. They do not help us by making some material thing
and sending it to us. They help us personally and directly. We in
