INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION AND RAILWAY SERVICE. 233
I have with extreme brevity outlined the hindrances as well as
the helps that socially organized human beings offer us in our suste-
nance- The latter I have classified into six forms of combination (not
always exchange) of effort, as follows :
1. Unity of completed service, immediate union of contributors,
homeogeneity of functions.
2. Unity of completed service, immediate union of contributors,
specialization of functions.
3. Unity of completed service, specialization of functions, separa-
tion of contributors.
4. Diversity of completed service, specialization of functions, sep-
aration of contributors, service embodied in material commodities.
5. Diversity of completed services, embodied in commodities on
one side only, or neither, specialization of functions, contributors some-
times united (as man and wife) in the final purpose of making a
living.
6. Combination of past with successive present efforts, all by the
same or by different contributors, completed services personal or em-
bodied in commodities.
Whether the list might be extended, or ought to be condensed, is
for others to say. In its present form it can hardly be more than sug-
gestive, for its whole line of study is entirely novel, so far as I know.
A rigid adherence to it, however, is not essential to my general view
of the science, nor to any part of a minute discussion in accordance
with that view. At the same time I am inclined to think that some
such classification might be made not only highly instructive, but quite
convenient for reference.
--
INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION AND RAILWAY SERVICE.*
MUCH has been heard, during the discussions of the labor ques-
tion, about the rights and interests of manufacturers and of
workmen, but comparatively very little about the claims of the work.
While the contention between manufacturers and their men has always
been hot, and sometimes vital, the product of their joint energy, upon
the best availability of which for its intended purpose the life of both
parties depends, has been left to shift for itself. Producers have re-
laxed their pains to secure the best possible product, in order that they
might put more money into their pockets, or recoup themselves for the
losses they have had to suffer by the antagonism of their men ; and
workmen have, in obedience to some union or chapter, system-
atically slighted their work, as one of the means by which they im-
agined they might get even with the capitalists. The result has been, in
* Abridged from a report by Dr. W. T. Barnard to the President of the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Company.
