INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION AND RAILWAY SERVICE. 235
in the same markets. In order to counterbalance the advantages
which some manufacturers engaged in a given industry enjoyed
through the possession of cheaper raw material, labor, prestige, or
favorable situation, their competitors of foreign and even of the
same nationality were compelled to look to improved methods of
manufacture or production in order to hold their ground, and were
thus brought to realize that educated labor and technical skill were
the soundest elements with which to defend themselves in trade
competition, in that they promote excellence of execution, inventive-
ness, enterprise, and all the qualities required to successfully con-
duct progressive industries. Under this pressure producers and
manufacturers, through their guilds and other associations, were
soon able to exert an influence upon their governments which has
resulted in every European nations making greater or less provision
for public industrial education ; until at this time not only England,
France, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Holland, and Italy, but all the
minor Continental states, have their governmental schools for both
elementary and higher technical instruction. Russia also has estab-
lished Imperial Technical Institutes at St. Petersburg and Moscow,
which are classed as among the finest in Europe, and the action of the
Government has been supplemented by schools established by the lead-
ing railroads at their principal works. While the technical schools
and departments in France are excellent of their kind, it is in Germany
and Switzerland that the movement for industrial education has at-
tained its highest development. In the latter country, the British
Royal Commissioners found the value of its technical schools distinctly
illustrated in the marked improvement of manufactures ; in the eleva-
tion of the producing classes ; in the diminution of crime ; in the
popularization of education ; and, generally, exercising a most impor-
tant influence upon the nations industries and welfare. In summariz-
ing the results of their investigations in Germany, they remark that
the conviction is universal among the German people that they can
only meet the competition of their rivals in other countries by training
their workmen in taste and skill, and that the prosperity of their indus-
tries will increase only in proportion as they keep up the efficiency of
their schools and spread their influence among the workers themselves.
The direct and indirect effects of technological schools upon the
industries of their respective countries were, immediately upon their es-
tablishment, felt to be beneficial in the highest degree. Their graduates
were eagerly sought out to fill important and responsible positions in
manufacturing and commercial establishments, many of which had sus-
tained serious losses through the ignorance and consequent bad manage-
ment of administrative officers ; and this inquiry soon far exceeded the
supply. As the result of this appreciation of, and demand for, skilled
laborers and supervisors, many enterprising corporations, and even
private firms, engaged in manufacturing and other industries depend-
