PRESENT STATUS OF THE GREEK QUESTION. 15
languages, and social science, were finally admitted to a place in the
curriculum of the colleges. It was insisted, however, that space should
be found for them, not by cutting the time given to Greek and Latin,
but simply by demanding more in these subjects for admission, and
thus giving to them as much time as was given before and lengthening
the college course correspondingly, so that a college boy is now much
older than he was a half-century ago. When further demands were
made with irresistible force, they were finally met by a reluctant per-
mission to establish so-called modern or Latin-scientific or scientific
courses, parallel with the old, but carrying with them a separate degree
which did not recognize the candidate as a liberally educated man,
whatever else he might be. It was thus that the field lay, when Dr.
Eliot began fifteen years ago his career as President of Harvard Col-
lege. An earnest agitation was shortly begun to make Greek elective
in the course for the degree of A. B. It was maintained that the
facilities for study and methods of teaching, etc., in the modern studies
had been so far perfected that they could put something else in the
place of Greek and still fairly claim for the man who had completed the
course the proud title of bachelor of liberal arts.
Here the adherents of the old system made a desperate stand and
were determined to fight the proposal to the bitter end. How far
President Eliot may be personally responsible for the view within
Harvard College which admitted the reasonableness of this claim of
the modernists I am not aware. But certain it is that, whether
rightly or wrongly, he is identified with it in the public mind. With
every passing year, with every extension in the courses of study at
Harvard, with every improvement in their facilities for giving instruc-
tion in these new branches, with every debate on the question in the
faculty meetings, with every careful and unprejudiced consideration
of the question in a broad or liberal way, with every increase in peda-
gogical knowledge ; and with every comparison of our own system
with that of progressive nations abroad and the tendencies of thought
on educational matters elsewhere, the number of those favorable to the
scheme increased, until during the last year the plan was finally adopted
which marked the culmination of the long development. So fully
was it recognized that Harvards decision on the matter, if favorable
to the claims of the modern party, would lend an inmense impetus to
the cause everywhere and ultimately lead to the utter rout of the
ancients, that a very unusual step was taken by several of the New
England college presidents. Eight of them joined in a circular me-
morial to the Board of Overseers of Harvard College in the spring of
1885, praying that no relaxation be made in the requisition of Greek
for the A. B. I think I am right in saying that such action was un-
precedented in the history of American education the head of eight
institutions of learning uniting in a request to the governing board of
a ninth institution that it should not comply with the request of its
