238 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
close inspection of those industries in which the mass of a countrys
population is engaged, and in which their knowledge is displayed by
the fruits of their labor, it will be found that the national system of
popular education in the United States fails entirely in accomplishing
its mission, in several important particulars. For example, in the
public schools our youth are, as a rule, entirely untaught in even the
rudiments of industrial occupations, and upon passing from the school-
room are generally utterly incompetent, unassisted, to earn a liveli-
hood in any trade or pursuit requiring manual dexterity. Even our
high-schools leave their graduates to drift, by accident or unintelligent
direction, into vocations generally foreign to their abilities, and, as a
rule, with few exceptions, unequipped with that character of knowl-
edge or expertness without which a comfortable living becomes diffi-
cult prominence impossible. It is commonly accepted as a fact that
a good elementary education, such as is afforded by our public-school
system, gives a child that which will carry it well along in life ; but
this is true only of agricultural, or at most of sparsely settled districts,
and is then true only within limitations. The tendency of the system
is by elevating pupils above their actual or probable stations in life,
and prompting in them desires and aspirations of which there is little
chance of fruition to turn out a large class of consumers, who fail
utterly of success in the professions and kindred occupations, under
conditions which, had their efforts been directed to mechanical or other
industrial pursuits, would have made them efficient producers. A re-
markably small percentage of our public-school graduates in the Mid-
dle and in the Southern States engage in any kind of manual labor.
Recognition of this lack of utility in our educational system has,
of late years, become quite general, resulting in efforts to ingraft upon
our higher-grade institutions industrial and scientific instruction, and
the colleges and schools whose curricula embrace those subjects which
fit our boys and girls to participate in the practical work of life are
now rapidly increasing. There have long existed in the United States
a certain number of educational institutions wherein special attention
i3 given to technical and scientific training in mining, civil and me-
chanical engineering, applied mathematics, physics, and the natural
sciences, which are fully equal to the best of similar schools in Europe.
Among the most prominent of these are the School of Agriculture and
Mechanical Arts of Cornell University, the School of Mines of Colum-
bia College (New York), the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
the Lawrence School of Science in connection with Harvard Univer-
sity, the Pardee Schools, the Stevens Institute at Hoboken, the Rens-
selaer Polytechnic Institute, and the Sheffield School at Yale ; but the
high tuition fees charged by these and similar schools make instruc-
tion therein available only for the wealthier classes. Elementary
science is also now taught in numerous colleges, academies, and high-
schools. But, while this instruction, in point of cost and preliminary
