INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION AND RAILWAY SERVICE. 239
educational qualifications, is generally within the reach of the masses,
the subjects taught and, as a rule, the manner of teaching them, have
but little practical bearing on industrial pursuits. However, in the
last few years considerable progress has been made in introducing a
substantial help to industrial education that of manual training-
schools and already their feasibility and desirability as a feature of
popular education have been practically demonstrated. Well-equipped
schools of this character are to be found in St. Louis, Chicago, Toledo,
Philadelphia, and Boston.
The secret of the popularity of this kind of education is to be found
in the natural and practical combination it makes of intellectual and
manual training. Both thought and action are developed equally, and
the skill acquired at school, together with the respect for industrial
pursuits there fostered, makes their pupils useful, wealth-producing
citizens.
It is undeniable that our national prosperity has been greatly pro-
moted by the pre-eminence of certain of our manufactures in the
markets of the world ; but our success in this respect has been due
not to the superior intellectual cultivation or manual skill of our native
artisans, but to very different causes, which we may regard as, in com-
parison, accidental ; and it is sad to reflect what greater success might
have been achieved by combining with these causes that high degree
of intelligence and skill that European nations are cultivating in their
industrial classes. While the value of our great workshops as prac-
tical technical schools may be admitted, the ordinary workshop does
not yet combine mental instruction with manual training. At the same
time, our science-teaching is of too high a grade to be assimilable by
the ordinary mechanic and mechanical apprentice, and is too theoreti-
cal to be adaptable to the current work of the shops. There is too
little application of science to our handicraft, and a lack of intelligent
effort to teach apprentices in our workshops the mechanical dexterity
which they are supposed to acquire there. Now that the old system
of apprenticeship is becoming obsolete, the question of what shall take
its place in the way of educating and training the youth of our work-
ing-classes becomes an important consideration.
Provision for teaching mechanic-trades was attempted in the organi-
zation of the agricultural colleges, but most of these institutions have
drifted away from the original intention of the authors of the act, and
there is in them, generally, little or no effort to combine theoretical
instruction with practical mechanical training in other than those
branches of knowledge closely related to agricultural pursuits ; and
much remains to be done before they can be of any material advan-
tage to manufacturers and others requiring skilled labor. Our pri-
vately endowed schools do this work more directly and efficiently, but
not as perfectly as they ought. Our university special departments,
and our technological schools, even aggregated, are insignificant in
