240 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
number, and in most of them instruction in the mechanical arts has
not been strictly adhered to, having been obscured by the literary and
art-science sides of education. That this tendency is a very grave
danger in technological schools generally, is very apparent from a
study of those in England, where most of the institutions established
purely and simply for technical instruction are already drifting into
devotion for the higher branches of the natural sciences and mathe-
matics, to the exclusion of drawing, applied science, and mechanical
teaching. Judge MacArthur says that while we have schools for all
sorts of instruction in mathematics, history, literature, and philosophy
in abundance, they fit nobody with either knowledge or skill in any
particular branch of industry. There is even a tendency in them to
beget dislike for those pursuits that require manual labor. Our na-
tional system of elementary education is also drifting to the literary
side, and tending to beget a distaste for manual work and industrial
pursuits in general. Among the defects charged against existing pro-
visions for industrial training, are that the instruction is too expensive
for work-people ; that the conditions of admission are too advanced
for the mass of the people ; that the instruction in most of the schools
is too theoretical ; and that, for the lack of evening instruction, the
masses of mechanics who are compelled to labor during the day are de-
barred from availing themselves of their advantages, such as they are.
A dark-shadowed picture is drawn of the condition of the trade
and the manufacturing industries of Baltimore. The former has de-
clined in an alarming degree, and the latter have never been developed
to any notable extent. Facts are presented bearing on some of the
particulars of these categories, and evidence is given from which the
conclusion is deduced that the manufacturing arts of the community
are languishing as much for the want of skilled and intelligent artisans
and managers to direct their operations, as from the lack of capital,
cheap raw material, or natural facilities for production.
Johns Hopkins University, from which much might have been ex-
pected, lacks departments for training in practical industries. With
an income of 8225,000 a year, says Mr. William Mather, an English
observer of our schools, it would appear possible for a larger amount
of work to be done by this university among the people of the city,
without in any degree diminishing the high class of instruction in the
advanced stages of literary and scientific study.
In no field is more room afforded for the application of such skill
and knowledge as technical training gives, than in the management
and operation of railroads. Railroading has, in fact, become a pro-
fession, fully as exacting and requiring as high degrees of professional
skill and intellectual attainments as the liberal professions. Yet Dr.
Barnard has failed to find that any of our railway managers have a
proper appreciation of the situation, or that there has been any well-
digested effort in the direction of educating railway officials or em-
