INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION AND RAILWAY SERVICE. 245
the school-room to work in the shops having a commercial value, they
would make their instruction practical in a high degree. They are
also especially valuable for training the young of our industrial classes,
because the pupils are thereby enabled to earn a livelihood while ac-
quiring theoretical and practical knowledge as they go, each supple-
menting and assisting the other.
Whatever the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad has achieved in the
way of commercial success has not resulted from superior skill or in-
telligence of its subordinate officers or of the rank and file in its sev-
eral departments, but rather in spite of their deficiencies. The com-
pany has been fortunate in one sense, in that the geographical isolation
of its main stem and branches has contributed to the gradual forma-
tion of a corps of operatives who, by descent, tradition, and personal
attachments, may be said to belong to the road. From their earliest
youth they have looked forward to an active participation in the opera-
tions of the line as a means of livelihood, and all their aspirations and
ambitions are associated with its service. This condition has been
fostered by the custom of regarding the children of meritorious opera-
tives as entitled to prior consideration in making appointments. While
this has resulted in creating and maintaining a corps of operatives of
exceptional devotion and loyalty, and has in many other ways been
advantageous to the service, it has also in some ways that were unfore-
seen proved prejudicial to the companys interests. Thus, the inhabit-
ants along the main-stem divisions are destitute of educational facili-
ties, and this, coupled with the sense of proprietorship in the positions
and the idea that education beyond the bounds of his trade is of no
practical use to a mechanical workman, has created indifference on the
subject. This was one of the considerations which prompted the
establishment of the school at Mount Clare. Of the first class of boys
examined for admission to the school, only forty were found in such a
condition of discipline and grounding in the common English branches
as to justify the hope that they could enter upon the course for grad-
uation as mechanics, and not one of them was capable of entering
upon the higher studies necessary to qualify him for an officers posi-
tion in the service. It being thus manifested that there was no mate-
rial from which to manufacture efficient officers, nor was any likely to
be acquired under the then existing system, a general order was issued
promulgating regulations for the future admission of apprentices, and
prescribing the minimum qualifications of candidates, which, while
neither onerous nor of a high grade, provided a sufficient foundation
for the technical instruction necessary to make a fairly educated me-
chanic. In the same general order the lines upon which the education-
al work was to be conducted were defined in general terms. The plan
outlined in that order contemplated.
1. Instruction (in the apprentice class of such boys as could pass
the examination therein indicated) of a character that will make them
