16 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
faculty in regard to the course of study. It only serves to show how
overwhelming the arguments in favor of such a course must have been
when the prayer of such a distinguished body of clergymen as that
whose names were appended to this document should have produced
no visible effect whatever, except to lend additional force to the victory
of the aggressive party.
The great and imperishable service which Harvard College has
rendered to American education in the last fifteen years consists in
two things. It has extended enormously the range of subjects in
which instruction is offered within it own limits, and thereby made it
absolutely necessary for all other institutions which did not wish to
lag hopelessly in the rear to do the same. This necessity has produced
unusual efforts in every one of these old institutions to extend its facili-
ties. One is perfectly safe in saying that the students of every other
American college of high rank owe it to-day very largely to the example
of Harvard that they have in their own college far better opportunities
for study than their predecessors of fifteen years ago. And the boys
of to-day may largely thank Harvard for taking such a position as has
resulted in bringing to them advantages which otherwise might have
come only to their children.
The other service is one of equal if not of greater value, viz., the
full recognition of the equivalency of different lines of study from a
liberal point of view, thus practically giving force to a conviction
which almost always forces itself upon one as the result of any extended
study of the art and science of education. This recognition has been
given in two different forms, though at bottom they are parts of one
and the same general plan. It has been given by the general intro-
duction of the elective-study system within the college itself, thus rec-
ognizing the equivalency from a liberal point of view of all lines of
study, at least after the student had learned a minimum amount of
Latin, Greek and mathematics, and modern languages and science. It
has now gone still further, and recognizes the full equivalency of dif-
ferent lines of preparatory study before the student comes to the college
itself. Every one who has taken the requirements for admission and
studied them carefully, is surprised to learn how many different com-
binations may be made, all of which are recognized as equally fitting a
boy to take a liberal course of study. The difference between the new
list and the old is very great, and may be properly denominated as
epoch-making. The most important feature, and the one which inter-
ests us most in this immediate connection, is the fact that it is now
possible to make up a combination which will be accepted as satisfying
all requirements but which shall contain no Greek.
I am not trying to prove that this last-mentioned feature is a good
thing, though it is my personal opinion that it is good. I wish merely
to call attention to the fact that Greek is finally ousted from the place
which it has hitherto held in the curriculum of the oldest and most
