246 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
skilled and intelligent mechanics. While this first-class course would
naturally lead up to the second or cadet class, it should provide within
itself all the elements of technical instruction necessary to complete a
journeymans education.
2. A second or cadet course, which should also be complete within
itself, and should provide such technical instruction in all the depart-
ments of railway service as would fit its students for all subordinate
positions of responsibility and trust in the service, corresponding to
what is known in European schools as the foremans course of study.
This course, while involving more thorough and wider theoretical in-
struction than the apprentice course, should, to the greatest extent
possible, be framed with reference to the practical mechanical opera-
tions of the shops and of the service generally.
3. A third or cadet officers course, the object of which will be to
give to those who graduate with honor from the second class (and who
have therein shown themselves possessed of ability and educational
qualifications above the average) further technical training, of a still
higher and more comprehensive type, which, when combined with
familiarity with the operations of the various departments of the serv-
ice, will go far toward qualifying the students of that course for the
highest positions in the companys gift. To this end, opportunity
should be afforded the pupils of this course, in its last year, to actively
participate in the production, care, repair, and improvement of railway
plant and in the practical operations of the service. This could readily
be done and with advantage to the service also by distributing these
students among the several departments as assistants, at the same time
maintaining their connection with the school for further educational
purposes. This course is not yet in operation.
In the apprentice course, school-instruction should be made second-
ary to shop-work, while in the higher courses shop- work should always
be secondary to mental training.
Although these provisions relate especially to instruction in Balti-
more, the plan has been drafted in a more general sense, and contem-
plates the gradual extension of this educational movement over the
entire system of the railroad. While Baltimore will always be the
center of such a movement, no great difficulty is apprehended in ex-
tending the apprentice course, at least, over the entire road, by estab-
lishing night-schools for drawing, mathematics, and elementary sci-
ence, or securing the introduction of the boys into such schools as are
already in operation, and the modification of their curriculum in the
manner indicated.
Prior to the establishment of school-work at Mount Clare, the Bal-
timore and Ohio apprentices had neither incentive nor opportunity to
develop into intelligent workmen, so that on starting the classes it was
with great difficulty and only by absolute compulsion that the attend-
ance of about forty shop-boys was secured. They were, with few ex-
