GRAINS OF SAND. 247
ceptions, rude and almost unmanageable in the class-room, uninterested
in the instruction, and scarcely able to await the hour of dismissal,
when they would vacate the school-room rudely and in haste. Then
the class-instruction was confined to the most elementary subjects, and
the boys were unable or unwilling to read technical or scientific books
with any show of profit. Now there are under school-instruction
seventy-five as orderly and polite boys as are to be found in any high-
school of the country, and among the very best of them are boys who
a few months ago were conspicuous for rudeness and insubordination.
There have been classes of apprentices in geometry, algebra, physics,
locomotive-engine, mechanics, mechanical drawing, free-hand drawing,
geometrical drawing, English and history, and a valuable method of
instruction by special reading, selected and recommended by the teach-
ers to each pupil, with special reference to his talents and the state of
his education.
Last year, as a rule, boys had to be compelled to take up algebra
and geometry ; at this time many are promising promptness, regulari-
ty, and other inducements to secure admission to those classes, and a
number have become very urgent for the higher science and mechan-
ical studies. Many of these boys regularly spend their noons studying
works in science and mechanics, going from shop to shop and from
machine to machine, studying the principles involved in their con-
struction and operation. Every examination for apprentices brings
in a better class of applicants ; as the result of which the standard
upon which admission to the service is predicated is being gradually
raised.
It may be added that the practical result of this report has been to
induce the Board of Directors of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company to make a permanent appropriation of $20,000 annually for
the conduct of this school, and that Dr. Barnard is now engaged in
the preparation of plans for what will be the first technical railroad-
school ever established in the United States.
-*-
GRAINS OF SAND.
Br GEORGE WARDMAN.
THE manufacture of sand is an important industry, which has
Pittsburg for its headquarters, although the sand is not made
within the limits of the city. There is a considerable traffic in Monon-
gahela sand, which is scooped up from the bed of the river, to be used
for common building purposes ; but the manufacture of sand is quite
another affair, and the product goes into quite a different commodity,
which is glass.
Practically glass is almost pure sand, other substances used in its
