2 4 3 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
manufacture for fluxing being consumed while the sand is transformed
to a greater or less degree of transparency. The sand used in glass-
making is almost pure silica, so nearly pure that there is less than one
per cent of iron, magnesia, and aluminum, to ninety-nine + per cent of
the other. And of this sand, which is quarried out of the hills and
ground down to varying degrees of fineness, and washed to varying
degrees of whiteness, eight hundred tons are manufactured daily,
four hundred tons being consumed in and about Pittsburg, and four
hundred tons going into Eastern Ohio and West Virginia to Wheeling,
Bellaire, Columbus, and all points within a circuit of one hundred and
fifty miles from Pittsburg.
In selecting, a darkish sand is found, containing more foreign sub-
stances than the ninety-nine per cent silica, which inferior grade goes
into green or black bottles, and a still darker and baser earth,
which is used for sanding fire-brick molds ; another and finer dark
grade, which is used by crucible-steel manufacturers ; and still another
quality, the whitest and grittiest, which becomes flint, or what
might be called absolutely transparent glass. An inferior quality of
white sand is used for prescription-bottles, but the very best is for
the higher grade of flint-ware.
Looking through the flat surface of window-glass, whether plate
or blown, it appears colorless ; but, if the sight is directed through the
edge, it will disclose a sea-green tinge. Flint-glass proper is not so.
It is absolutely colorless, except when cut into faces or prisms, when
it reveals the colors of the spectrum.
The cost of a ton of sand to glass-manufacturers of Western Penn-
sylvania, Eastern Ohio, or West Virginia, is, of course, dependent on
the distance it is hauled from the quarry ; but, taking the eight hun-
dred tons daily manufactured and consumed, it will not average above
$2.25 per ton, damp. Dried sand will average $2.50 joer ton. Of
course, it costs a little less than those figures in Pittsburg, and a
little more in Bellaire, Ohio ; but even at this last-named place, the
cost of the sand which goes into the manufacture of a box of common
window-glass, containing the regulation fifty square feet of surface, is
about five cents ; that is, the box of glass consists merely of five
cents worth of silica, transmuted to a state of transparency.
The sand used in the glass industry in Western Pennsylvania,
Eastern Ohio, and West Virginia, comes from three quarries : one on
the Pennsylvania Railroad, overlooking the Juniata ; one on the Balti-
more and Ohio Railroad, near Connellsville ; and one on the Pittsburg,
McKeesport, and Youghiogheny Railway, twenty-five miles south of
Pittsburg. It is quarried out like building-stone, passed through a
quartz-crusher, further reduced under immense iron wheels, and finally
ground and washed in an endless screw. The washing releases some
of tbe foreign substances, but streaks of iron which are sometimes
found running through the stone are knocked off to undergo the
