APPEARANCE AND REALITY IN PICTURES. 249
milling process for the inferior quality of sand, some of which goes
into mortar for specially fine and durable wall-building. The rail-
roads use large quantities of it in the construction of retaining-walls
for embankments. And so all grades of the sand are utilized.
--*-
APPEARANCE AND EEALITY IN PICTURES.
Bt Dr. EUGEN DREHER.
IN the contemplation of the creations of the painter, the mind is
stimulated to a degree of activity which the enjoyment of no other
form of art-work can induce. A mental operation is provoked of which
we are hardly conscious, and which some have attributed to the organi-
zation of the visual apparatus, that amounts in effect to the transfor-
mation of the flat surfaces of the picture into the appearance of a body
or a group standing out or receding in relief. The inquiry as to how
the painter can invoke this illusion is usually answered by saying that
he knows how to represent objects in perspective ; that is, that he is
able to arrange the lines of the picture except that the image is not
reversed so that the adjustment shall correspond essentially with that
of the image which is cast upon the photographers screen or upon the
retina of the eye. The process, unperceived and instantaneous in the
case of simple objects, by which such representations are given bodily
projection, may be followed out in its gradual development in contem-
plating pictures of a more complex character, as, for instance, a view
of the interior of a grand cathedral. Without any change taking place
in the image on the retina, the individual objects are gradually lifted
one from another ; those represented as in the background appear to
become larger but at the same time obscure, and those in the fore-
ground to grow smaller but more sharply defined. Thus the size we
attribute to the objects depends upon the distance we assign to them
as well as on the visual angle they subtend. There are, according to
this, unconscious processes that fit us for seeing plane surfaces as bodies,
provided the picture furnishes suitable points to which our conceptions
of corporeal projection may attach themselves. To see a perspective
representation of a cube, I must have remaining within me a conception
of a cube already acquired by the exercise of my senses ; and, without
such an acquired conception, the picture would still be to me only a
picture or a planimetric feature, without projection. Hence we find
that, in looking at pictures, unconscious representations intrude upon
the primary conceptions, and change them into secondary ones, by
means of which a surface is made to look like a body having projec-
tion. This process occurs in all monocular vision, when we interpret
the flat retinal image corporeally.
To obtain a proper appreciation of a perspectively correct picture,
