250 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
we must look at it with one eye ; for, in looking with two eyes, the
duplication of the visual lines that define the position of each point
as it is perceived, must cause more or less of the impression of the
really plain surface to persist. In this case the corporeal projection
becomes confused with the superficial conception, and is more or less
modified by it. The effect of perspective is also heightened by look-
ing at the painting through a tube, by means of which it is abstracted
from the frame and from its surroundings.
We observe, also, in looking at a picture, the curious phenomenon
that, whatever position we may take toward it, it always appears
projected, but in aspects which are varied not only in respect to the
absolute position of its constituent parts, but also in respect to their
mutual relations with one another, to such an extent that from an ex-
tremely unfavorable position it appears distorted.
Whenever an artist can not produce the perspective effects he de-
sires in a picture drawn with absolute correctness, he does not hesitate
to exaggerate the perspective if he thinks he can thereby enforce a
better conception of his design. lie represents distant objects on a
smaller scale than strict accuracy demands, and causes us, by uncon-
sciously taking account of the reduction, to see them farther off than
we otherwise would do ; and he knows how to call our imagination to
his help in other ways.
Although the application of perspective devices is usually enough
for the purpose, the projection of the design is heightened to a con-
siderable degree, facilitated and brought nearer the appearance of
reality by the introduction of effects of light and shade. This also
is borrowed from Nature. The shading may, indeed, sometimes define
and fix the effect which mere perception fails to convey positively. A
square with two diagonals drawn across it may mean simply that, or it
may be intended to represent a pyramid. If proper shading is added,
the figure is made to mean a pyramid unmistakably.
If we assume that the light is evenly diffused through any space,
then, other conditions being equal, those things in the space which are
nearer to us will be clearer in appearance in a proportion determined
by the rule that the intensity of light diminishes as the square of the
distance increases. A point twice as far from the eye as another ap-
pears four times as obscure. This normal diminution of intensity is
augmented by the darkening which objects undergo in consequence of
the interposition of strata of air, or by the effect of air-perspective,
as it is called, in distinction from linear perspective. The painter must
take both of these phenomena into account. By the application of a
suitable coloring, the effect of air-perspective may be produced in so
striking a degree that objects may, by means of it, be made to appear
wonderfully remote. This effect, also, is dependent upon our uncon-
scious application of knowledge we have gained from previous expe-
rience.
