APPEARANCE AND REALITY IN PICTURES. 251
The shadow which all objects cast when exposed to any kind of
light is a capital sign of bodily substance. Our conception of bodies
is inseparable from that of their shadows. The importance of this
phenomenon as an aid to projection is illustrated by the manner in
which through them flat letters on signs are made to appear standing
out as solid bodies.
The painter is also able to represent motion by taking advantage
of the unconscious working of our preconceived impressions. Looking
at a masterly marine landscape in the National Gallery at Berlin one
day, I could almost see the ship rising and falling upon the waves,
and the waves themselves seemed to be in motion as they swelled and
swept by the vessel. The painter had seized a single instant in the
succession, and had so represented it as to call out the idea of consecu-
tiveness. The question arises, How is the artist to illustrate motion,
as he often has to do, say in such a case as that of a rapidly turning
wheel, in which we can at no instant distinguish the single spokes, but
see only a confusion of flying lines? It is clearly impossible for him
to give the exact appearance of motion. He can only seize a given
instant or stage, and so manage that it shall represent itself as the
effect of the preceding stage and the cause of the following one : A
sword-blow must be represented at a decisive point, not at a stage in
the descent of the weapon, else the illusion will be destroyed ; a pen-
dulum in motion, not at the bottom of its course, where it would seem
to be at rest. In painting a galloping horse, no stage of the exact
motion is reproduced. The instantaneous photographs have demon-
strated that ; and also that, if the artist should attempt a reproduction
of the kind, he would give any but the effect desired. He makes a
more pleasing and probable picture, having, however, no counterpart
in Nature, in which he does no violence to her, but, as Schiller has
said, increases the natuie that is in Nature.
The theory of color-perceptions is not yet far enough advanced to
permit a full explanation of all the phenomena of coloring ; still, it is
competent in its present condition to give valuable hints concerning
the color-effects experienced in the contemplation of paintings.
All the variations in color perceived in Nature may be produced
from red, yellow, and blue, or, as others have it, from red, green, and
violet, and their combinations. The painter does not possess any of
these colors in their purity, but always adulterated with more or less
that is foreign to them, and can hardly ever reproduce the exact color
he finds in Nature, and it is his task to combine the materials he has
so as to give as near as possible an approach to them. How does he,
with the deviations he is forced to make, bring about the magic illu-
sion that causes us to perceive in his creations the same endless play
of light and color that Nature so lavishly bestows upon her pictures ?
How does he repioduce the burning glow of the setting sun and the
objects it illuminates ? He does it by means of a contrast of colors,
