2 5 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
AMONG THE TRANSYLYANIAN SAXONS.
BIRTH AND DEATH.
[Co?iclu ded.~\
BY-AND-BY, when a few months have passed over the head of
the new-married couple, and the young matron becomes aware
that the prophecies pointed at by the dolls cradle and the broken dis-
taff are likely to come true, she is carefully instructed as to the con-
duct she must observe in order to insure the well-being of herself and
her child.
In the first place, she must on no account conceal her state, or deny
it when interrogated on the subject for if she do so, her child will
never learn to speak ; nor may she wear beads on her neck, for that
would cause the infant to be strangled at its birth. Carrying peas or
beans in her apron will produce malignant eruptions ; and sweeping a
chimney will make the child narrow-breasted.
On no account should she be allowed to pull off her husbands
boots, nor to hand him a glowing coal to light his pipe ; for both
these actions bring misfortune. In driving to market she may not sit
with her back to the horses, nor may she ever drink at the well out of
a wooden bucket.
Also, her intercourse with the pig-sty must be very carefully
regulated ; for if she listen too attentively to the grunting of pigs,
her child will have a deep, grunting voice ; and if she kick the swine
or push them away with her foot, the infant will have bristly hair on
its back. Hair on the face will be the result of beating a dog or cat,
and twins will be the consequence of eating double cherries or sitting
at the corner of the table.
During this time she may not stand godmother to any other child,
or else she will lose her own baby, which will equally be sure to die
if she walk round a newly made grave.
If any one throw a flower suddenly at the woman who expects to
become a mother, and hits her with it on the face, her child will have
a mole at the same place touched by the flower.
Should the young matron imprudently have neglected one of these
rules, and have cause to fear that an evil spell has been cast on her
child, she has, however, several very efficacious recipes for undoing the
harm. Thus, if she sit on the door-step with the feet resting on a
broom for five minutes at a time on seven consecutive Fridays, think-
ing the while of her unborn babe, it will be released from the impend-
ing doom ; or else let her sit there on Sundays, when the bells are ring-
ing, with her hair hanging unplaitcd down her back ; or else climb up
the belfry-tower and look down at sunset on to the landscape below.
When the moment of the birth is approaching, the windows must
