PRESENT STATUS OF THE GREEK QUESTION. 17
extensive center of learning on this continent, as a required subject
of study.
Harvard, however, was not the first of our institutions of high rank
to discard Greek from the list of its requirements for the degree of
A. B. Johns Hopkins University led the way in this revolution, as in
so many other good things. But its lead in the matter, owing to sev-
eral circumstances, did not have anything like the same influence which
Harvards will have. In the first place, the institution had no history
prior to 1876, and it was a matter which attracted but little atention
when it opened, that in this regard it began at a point to which no
other American institution had at that time come. It was, moreover,
organized on quite a different plan from the ordinary college, and the
work at first seemed to outsiders to be chiefly of post-graduate char-
acter, in which this question played but an unimportant part. Har-
vard, on the contrary, still retains its college form, though the spirit of
the college, in the traditional sense, at least, has long since departed.
Any action taken by it seems, therefore, much nearer to the average
college than that of such an institution as the university at Baltimore.
Johns Hopkins allows the substitution of modern languages for
Greek in the course for the degree of A. B. i. e., it has from the first
recognized the equivalency of different lines of work for the degree
which crowns the course of liberal arts. The two institutions in Amer-
ica which, taken all in all, each in its own way, stand at the head of
our educational system, join, then, in this revolutionary step. How
long can the other institutions hold out along the old lines ? The for-
tress which the defenders of the old system have recognized as the key
to the situation has fallen, it is a mere question of time how soon the
others must capitulate; and we may be sure that, when they do, it will
be without conditions.
If we take a glance at conditions in foreign countries, we can better
understand how thoroughly in sympathy with the general progress of
education in our modern world this new step is, and consequently how
exceedingly sure it is of never being retraced. It is safe to say, after
making all due allowances for many acknowledged defects, that the
higher institutions of Germany stand as a whole at the head of similar
institutions in the world. Certain it is that German educational litera-
ture leads the world. It is also certain that the educational ideals of
young men in this country have been powerfully influenced by contact
with German institutions. It will also be agreed that the Germans
can not be accused of headlong radicalism in educational or other
matters. It is worth our while, then, to notice what they are doing in
this direction.
When we examine the requirements for the degree of Master of Arts,
which is the German degree which corresponds most closely with our
A. B., we find that not a single one of the German universities require
any knowledge of Greek whatever for this degree It is now sixteen
VOL. XXXI. 2
