AMONG THE TRANSYLVANIAN SAXONS. 259
mother repairs to church along with her infant to be blessed by the
pastor ; but before so doing she is careful to seek the nearest well and
throw down a piece of bread into its depths, probably as an offering
to the Brunnenfrau supposed to reside in each water, and who is said
to lure little children down to her.
With these first four weeks the greatest perils of infancy are con-
sidered to be at an end ; but no careful mother will fail to observe
the many little customs and regulations which alone will insure the
further health and well-being of her child.
Thus she will always remember that the baby may only be washed
between sunrise and sunset, and that the bathing-water may not be
poured out into the yard at a place where any one can step over it,
which would entail sickness or death, or at the very least deprive the
child of its sleep.
Two children which can not yet speak must not be allowed to kiss
each other, or neither of them will ever learn to talk.
A book laid under the childs pillow will make it an apt scholar ;
and the water in which a young puppy has been washed, if used for
the infants bath, will cure it of all skin-diseases.
Whoever steps over a child as it lies on the ground will cause it to
die within a month. Other prognostics of death are to rock an empty
cradle, to make the child dance in its bath, or to measure it with a
yard-measure before it can walk.
Death, to the Saxon peasants, appears in the light of a treacherous
enemy, who must be met with open resistance, and may be conquered
by courageous opposition or conciliated with a bribe. He has put
off death again with a slice of bread, is said of a man who has unex-
pectedly survived some great danger.
When the first signs of an approaching illness declare themselves
in a man, all his friends are strenuous in advising him to hold out
against it, not to let himself go, but to grapple with this foe which
has seized him unawares. Even though all the symptoms of ty-
phus fever be already upon him, though his head be burning like
fire, and his limbs heavy as lead, he is yet exhorted to bear up against
it, and on no account to let himself lie down, for that would be a con-
cession to the enemy.
In this way many a man goes about with death upon his face, de-
termined not to give in, till he drops at last senseless in the field or
yard where he has been working till the last moment.
Even then his family are not disposed to let him rest. With well-
meaning but mistaken kindness, they endeavor to rouse him by shout-
ing in his ear. He must be made to wake up and walk about, or it
will be all over with him ; and not for the world would they send for
a doctor, who can only be regarded as an omen of approaching death.
Some old woman versed in magic formulas, and learned in the de-
