260 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
coction of herbs and potions, is hastily summoned to the bedside ; and
the unfortunate man would probably be left to perish without intelli-
gent advice, unless the pastor, hearing of his illness, takes it upon him-
self to send for the nearest physician.
By the time the doctor has arrived, the illness has made rapid
strides, and most likely the assistance comes too late. The first care
of the doctor on entering the room will be to remove the warm fur cap
and the heavy blankets, which are well-nigh stifling the patient, and
order him to be undressed and comfortably laid in his bed. He pre-
scribes cooling compresses, and a medicine to be taken at regular
intervals, but shakes his head and gives little hope of recovery.
Already this death is regarded as a settled thing in the village, for
many of the gossips now remember to have heard the owl shriek in the
passing nights, or there has been an unusual howling of dogs just about
midnight. Others call to mind how over-merry the old man had been
four weeks ago, when his youngest grandchild was christened, and that
is ever a sign of approaching death. And only a week ago, says
another village authority, when we buried old mother Barbara, there
was an amazing power of dust round the grave, and the Iferr Vater
sneezed twice during his sermon ; and that, as every one knows, in-
fallibly means another funeral before long. Mark my words, ere eight
days have passed he will be lying under the nettles.
The village carpenter, who has long been out of work, now hangs
about the street in hopes of a job. How is the old man ? he anx-
iously inquires of a neighbor.
The pastor has just gone in to knock off the old sinners irons,
is the irreverent answer.
Then I may hope to be called in soon for making his coat (coffin).
High time I was able to turn an honest penny again. I have a heap
of damaged boards which were refused by the railway engineers still
lying on my hands.
Sometimes, however, it is the thrifty peasant himself who, knowing
the ways of village carpenters, and foreseeing this inevitable contin-
gency, has taken care to provide himself with a well-made, solid coffin
years before there was any probability of its coming into use. He has
himself chosen out the boards, tested their soundness, and driven a
hard bargain for his purchase, laying himself down in the coffin to
assure himself of the length being sufficient. For many years this
useless piece of furniture has been standing in the loft, covered with
dust and cobwebs and serving perhaps as a receptacle for old iron or
discarded shoes ; and now it is the dying man himself who, during
a passing interval of consciousness, directs that his coffin should be
brought down and cleaned out, his glassy eye recovering a passing
brightness as he congratulates himself on his wise forethought.
Death is indeed approaching with rapid strides. Only two spoon-
fuls of the medicine prescribed has the patient swallowed. Take it
