262 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a misfortune is mine, God ! If I had lost two young foals, at least
their hides would have been left to me.
And the children, standing by the open grave of their father, cry
out : O father, we shall never forget thee ! Take our thanks for all
the benefits received during thy lifetime, as well as for the earthly
goods thou hast left behind. Blackwood s Magazine.
SKETCH OF JULES JAMIN.
M JULES JAMIN was a man of many talents. He held a high
position in the scientific circles of his time, and was equally
eminent as a teacher and lecturer ; he was also well known in litera-
ture ; and he achieved respectable success in some of the fine arts.
He was able to acquit himself creditably in all this variety in occu-
pations, without sacrificing the excellence of his scientific work ; and
it is on the last that his fame is founded.
Jules Celestin Jamin was born at Termes in the Ardennes,
August 30, 1818, and died in Paris, February 12, 1886. His father
had served in the volunteers of the French Revolution, had gained the
rank of captain, and had been decorated at the battle of Friedland.
The boy was taught in the village school of Vouziers, and afterward
in the college at Rheims, where he gained nine prizes in the first year,
and received in 1838 the prize of honor in the competition between the
colleges of Paris and the departments. In the same year he entered
the Superior Normal School, and in 1841 received the first prize in
the examinations of physics. From this institution he went to the
college at Caen as a teacher of Physics ; afterward to the College
Bourbon (now Lycee Condorcet), and in 1844 to the College Louis-le-
Grand. In 1847 he received the doctorate of Physical Science for a
thesis on the reflection of light by the surface of metals.
The precision, elegance, and solidity of his instruction, say Jamins
foreign biographers, and the value of his scientific work, designated
him for some superior professorship. So, in 1852, he was elected Pro-
fessor of Physics at the Polytechnic School, where he lectured with
success till 1881. In 1863 he obtained the chair of Physics in the
Faculty of Sciences, where, by the extreme lucidity of his demonstra-
tions, he achieved a great success. When M. Duruy, the Minister of
Instruction at the time, founded the public lectures of the Sorbonne,
he committed the inauguration of the course to M. Jamin ; and the
opening was, according to M. Jurien de la Gravieres eulogy in the
Academy of Sciences, an event which aroused the enthusiasm of the
multitude. Here Jamin attracted a great number of eager listeners,
and displayed, says Nature, his admirable talent of exposition, as
well as his great power of simplifying the most difficult questions,
