CORRESP ONDENCE.
265
CORRESPONDENCE.
SAFETY IN THE MANUFACTURE OF HIGH
EXPLOSIVES.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
SIR: The article in Number 180, Popu-
lar Science Monthly, from the pen of
Professor L. R. F. Griffin, is a somewhat
marked instance of the freedom with which
some authors are willing to assume the re-
sponsibility of becoming instructors of the
public upon topics of interest by expression
of authoritative opinion based upon observa-
tion of a single phenomenon.
That Professor Griffin has taken this po-
sition is clearly indicated, not alone by his
erroneous statements of the properties of
explosives, but by the freedom with which
he charges ignorance on the part of the
manufacturers and owners of the explosives
stored near Chicago, the explosion of part
of which he makes the subject of his ar-
ticle.
Inquiry would doubtless have convinced
him that the methods he characterizes as
very strange, are those which the expe-
riences of manufacturers, many of whom
are skillful, intelligent, and highly educated,
who have had added to their own personal
experience the experience of generations of
predecessors for their guidance, have taught
them to be safest of which we have knowl-
edge. That all methods now in use are the
best possible, no one would be so bold as to
maintain, but the manufacture of so staple
articles as gunpowder, and its recent substi-
tute, dynamite, could not be long success-
fully conducted by ignorant persons while
so many highly intelligent men with neces-
sary capital at command are ever ready to
avail themselves of the opportunity for com-
mercial success that would be thus offered ;
and had Professor Griffin sought informa-
tion on the subject he treats, from those
who have life and large capital staked upon
the issue of intended skillful control of
explosives during manufacture, transporta-
tion, and while stored for distribution and
sale, he might easily have avoided the pub-
lication of errors that are obvious to a great-
er number of readers than he may have sup-
posed.
Nitro-glycerine is not commonly ab-
sorbed in Richmond infusorial earth,
when compounded into what is then known
as dynamite, and it is doubtful if, of the
millions of pounds of dynamite annually
made and sold in the United States, there
are one thousand pounds made by the use
of infusorial earth ; and it would practically
be impossible to find offered for sale by any
manufacturer or dealer any dynamite, in
the compounding of which earth or any
other inert matter had been used.
Nitro-glycerine is absorbed and made
into dynamite not for convenience, but
solely for safety, and in order to make it
commercially practicable to transport from
place of production to place of consumption
in a form that it may be used nitro-glyc-
erine, which, as such, no transportation com-
pany would receive into its custody.
Any manufacturer of gunpowder who
built a magazine depending upon strong
walls and a very light roof to prevent
damage in case of accidental explosion,
must have intended to store only a very
small quantity, or have been fortunate
enough never to have seen or known of the
disastrous results of any such futile attempt
to restrain or direct the force of the explo-
sion of any quantity such as is usually so
stored. Where conditions of the absence
of exposure to possible fire, or to the acts
of ignorant trespassers would permit, a light
frame structure would invariably be chosen
for storage of gunpowder. The different
properties of dynamite demand structures of
a material that will resist or diminish the
speed of a stray bullet ; but the less resist-
ance from the building within which any
accidental explosion may occur, the less
will be the damage to surrounding property
either by atmospheric effect or by flying
missiles.
The simplest knowledge of the proper-
ties of dynamite would have prevented Pro-
fessor Griffin from attributing the non-ex-
plosion of other magazines in the vicinity
to the fact of their being beyond the lim-
its where displacement would not appear
referring to the bodily mass of air ; and
personal presence in the immediate vicinity
of a number of accidental explosions of
either gunpowder or dynamite would prob-
ably induce him to change his opinion that
the mass bodily displaced must be con-
fined within comparatively narrow limits.
To correct the manifest errors in this
short article would require many times the
space it occupies, and be less gratification
to curiosity than the article itself ; and it
would seem to have been rather curiosity
than desire for investigation or instruction
that was inspired in the mind of the author
by the explosion of which he has written.
Yours truly, A. 0. Fay.
Xbnia, Ohio, March 29, 1S37.
