18 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
years since the requirement of Greek for this degree and that of Ph. D.
(with which the A. M. is always given) was dropped in Prussia; and
although some of the German professors would like to see Greek
restored to its place in the list of requirements, hecause it would reduce
the number of students at the universities, and some others would
like to see it restored for the same reasons which affect the opinion
of some American educators, there is no more probability of its being
restored than there is that the study of Hebrew or Sanskrit will be
made compulsory.
It is a very significant fact, indeed, that the deepest students of the
art and science of education in Germany are opposed to the requirement
of Greek. A recent work by Professor Paulsen, of the University of
Berlin, on the history of university education in Germany since the
close of the middle ages, has some exceedingly significant remarks on
this topic. He shows in a masterly way how prevailing ideas change
in regard to the value of Greek and the proper method of its study
from decade to decade. He pictures also how this language has been
slowly slipping away from the position Which it held fifty years ago,
and how surely one can draw the conclusion as to its ultimate fate.
He assigns to it, indeed, a much more subordinate place than any one
here demands. He says that the course of development points to the
irresistible conclusion that Greek must disappear altogether from the
list of studies common in the preparatory course must become like
Sanskrit, Hebrew, Arabic, etc., a language to be studied by but few
persons chiefly those who expect to make a profession of preaching or
teaching language. He recognizes certain difficulties in the way of
the speedy realization of this end, most of which are not pedagogical
at all, but social and political i. e., difficulties which are entirely ex-
traneous to the merits of the case.
The amount of Greek still required for the simple A. B. or M. A. at
English or Scotch universities is ridiculously small when judged in the
light of the wonderful results in the way of liberal education which are
claimed for them, and there can be but little doubt that just as soon
as the modern party can make itself felt and pedagogical considerations
secure the weight which is now accorded only to social and political
prejudice, the requirement of Greek in these pass-examinations will
go the way that many other old regulations of the university have
gone, which were vigorously defended by lovers of the old when they
were attacked, and which would now find absolutely no apologist.
Of course, all this is independent of the merits of the question, and
I have proposed simply to describe actual facts in regard to present
conditions, and to call attention to what seems to be the inevitable
drift of events. Very few who belong to the so-called modern party
desire to belittle the study of Greek properly pursued, or would think
of classing Greek in the same list as Sanskrit relative to its importance
to our culture or civilization. They simply recognize the fact that
