266
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
SEX AND BRAIN-WEIGHT.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Dear Sir : In the April number of The
Popular Science Monthly there was an
article, by Dr. William A. Hammond, enti-
tled Brain-Forcing in Childhood, of which,
in so far as it deals with that subject, I have
nothing to say here. But the doctor took
occasion to have another fling at women, and
to that I wish to reply in a way to give him
an opportunity to prove, if he can, that his
statements are based upon scientific facts
and discoveries. If such discoveries have
been made they should be on record, and I
am assured by the leading men of his pro-
fession that no such records exist.
I propose on my side to prove that his
statements on this subject, both in this ar
tide and a previously published one, from
which I shall also quote, arc based upon
assumption and prejudice, and can not be
sustained by scientific tests either by the
doctor or any one else.
Since the published opinions of such a
man as Dr. Hammond, and in such a maga-
zine as The Popular Science Monthly, are
likely to have a wide influence upon the
welfare and prospects of a large number
of women, it is most important that he
either prove his case or correct his indict-
ment.
In his article on Brain-Forcing in Child-
hood he devotes two and a half pages to a
series of statements regarding the native
incapacity of woman, the inferiority of her
brain in quality, quantity, and development
in what brain anatomists call the nobler
proportions; and argues that it is an ab-
surdity to allow girls and women to receive
and use the means of development which
he admits have produced these higher re-
sults in man !
Cause and effect, in man, he recognizes
as related in the usual manner ; while cause
and effect in woman appear to have no pos-
sible connection.
The higher races of man have a higher
brain development than have the lower races.
This, he argues, is the direct result of the
nature, variety, complexity, and accuracy
of their mental training and opportunities.
Womens brains in the lower races, he says,
are very nearly like those of the men ; but
in the higher races there is a much greater
difference between the brains of the sexes ;
which, oddly enough, he does not attribute
to the fact that they have never been al-
lowed the very training and opportunities
which he claims produced the desired change
in the males of their race. He holds that
it is natural, unalterable difference in the
brain-mass itself. Now, if this were the
case, would not the difference be quite as
marked in the lower races ? That the dispari-
ty is not natural and unalterable, but that it
is the result of lack of opportunity and ine-
quality of education and environment, seems
to be plainly indicated by his own argu-
ment when logically carried to its conclu-
sion. But he argues that, since the ratio of
difference in the brain of the sexes has not
remained the same in spite of the great ex-
pansion of opportunity for the one and the
restriction of opportunity for the other as
they rise in the scale of civilized races, it
proves inability on the part of the restricted
sex. And he then asks for further restric-
tion ! This is surely as unscientific as it is
illogical.*
All this upon the basis that the doctor can
prove that such great anatomical differences
do exist in the adult brain. But I hold that
it never has been done, and that the doctor
can not do it. I prepared a number of ques-
tions, for which I regret there is not space
here, which were submitted to twenty of the
leading brain anatomists, microscopists, and
physicians of New York, with the results
given below.
Dr. Hammond asserts : Again, it is
only necessary to compare an average male
with an average female brain to perceive at
once /iow numei-ous and striking are the dif-
ferences existing between them. (The ital-
ics are mine.) He submits a formidable list
of striking differences which include these
The male brain is larger, its vertical and
transverse diameters are greater proportion-
ally, the shape is quite different, the convo-
lutions are more intricate, the sulci deeper,
the secondary fissures more numerous, the
gray matter of the corresponding parts of
the brain decidedly thicker. Of this lat-
ter point the doctor modestly says that the
evidence is not so full as might be desired.
But, as if all these were not quite enough to
enable the merest novice to distinguish a
male from a female brain, he offers these
re-enforcements : It is quite certain, as
the observations of the writer show, that
the specific gravity of loth the white and
gray substance of the brain is greater in
man than in woman. f
All this would seem to leave woman
without a chance of escape; for if by any
accident her brain did not fall short in gray
matter, fissures, etc., the specific gravity of
the rest of it would enable the doctor to
* The reason that the brain of the woman ts
1ghtcr than that of man is, that she has less cere-
bral activity to exercise in her sphere ol duty. In
former timex it was relatively larger in the de-
partment of Lozere because then the women and
the men mutually shared the burden of iheir daily
labor. The truth is, that the weight of the brain
increases with the use we make of it. Topi-
nard, p. 120.
t A recent article in Mendels Journal, by
Morselli the only recent article which agrees with
this theory while asserting that the specific grav-
ity is less in the female, is compelled to make tho
sinister admission that irith old aae and with in-
sanity the specific gravity increases. If this is
the case. I do not know that women need sigh lor
more specific gravity than they have.
