CORRESP ONDENCE.
267
ticket her as accurately as though she were
to appear with ear-rings and train in a
ball-room. Now, if all this is true, it would
surely be the easiest and simplest thing in
the world to determine the sex of a subject
by an examination of the brain alone. And
if these great and numerous differences
are natural, potential sex conditions, and not
the results of difference in education, occu-
pation, mental stimulus, and general environ-
ment, they would be as easily distinguished
in the brains of infants (of the same age,
size, and condition) as in the brains of adults.
The physical sex differences which we
all know to be natural, necessary, and in-
evitable, are as easily distinguishable at
birth as in maturity.
Now, I am assured by all of the brain
experts and scientists to whom my questions
were submitted, that the sex of two infants
not only could not be perceived at once,
but could not be determined at all by these
certainly sufficiently plain and numerous
differences in brain size, matter, and condi-
tion of which the doctor writes so confi-
dently.
And, further than this, I am assured by
the leading brain anatomist in America that
no careful scientific observer could risk more
than a mere guess as to the sex of adult
brains, even upon the most careful and ex-
haustive examination.
And even more than this, it is a well-
known fact that individual brain differences
between persons of the same sex are great-
er and more numerous than any known to
exist between the sexes, and that such a
guess would, therefore, be worth very little
to a scientific mind.
The difference in weight, for example,
between the brains of Cromwell and Gam-
betta, or Byron aud Dante, are absolutely
known to be far greater than any known to
exist between the sexes, as such, even in
spite of the relative lighter body-weight of
women. But if Dr. Hammond still believes
in these numerous and easily detected sex
differences in the brain-mass itself even
including the weight test I am prepared
to offer him an opportunity to prove his
case, very greatly advance scientific knowl-
edge, and win for himself fame as an origi-
nal discoverer in a disputed field. If the
doctor will agree to it, we can decide wheth-
er he can distinguish sex in brain by a very
simple experiment.
I will agree to furnish (by permission of
the leading brain anatomists and from their
collections) twenty well - preserved brains,
marked in cipher, Dr. Hammond to divide
the male from the female brains by apply-
ing any or all of his numerous and readily
perceivable sex tests. If he can not do this,
he has certainly lost his case.
In the matter of weight the doctor con-
cedes that the relative size and weight of
the brain are about the same in the two sexes
slightly in womans favor which he says
does not count ; although, when he finds this
same relative difference between two men,
he argues that it does count for a great
deal. But in the dilemma to which this
seemed to reduce him he rushes into a most
extraordinary statement. He says : Nu-
merous observations show, beyond doubt,
that the intellectual power does not depend
upon the weight of brain relative to that of
the body, so much as it does upon absolute
brain-weighty Now, if this were true, an
elephant might out-think any of us ; and the
whale, whose intellectual achievements have
never been looked upon as absolutely in-
cendiary (if we except Jonahs friend), would
rank the greatest man on record, and have
brains enough left to equip a fair-sized fe-
male seminary.
The average human male brain weighs
from 1,300 to 1,400 grammes, and even a
very young whale furnishes 2,312 grammes
of intellect-producing substance, as the
doctor felicitously terms it ; while the brain
of a large whale weighed in 1883 tipped
the beam at 6,700 grammes !
Truly, then, if absolute brain-weight,
and not relative weight, is to be the test,
here was a mute, inglorious Milton in-
deed !
Almost any elephant which disports it-
self for the amusement of small boys and
the enrichment of Mr. Barnum is several
Cuviers in disguise, or perhaps an entire
medical faculty.
So much for the absolute - weight
statement. There are nineteen other points
in the doctors two articles upon which I
have data of a nature as radically opposed
to his theories and statements as these ; but,
since lack of space forbids their introduc-
tion here, I can add only one other sample.
He says, A fact which is somewhat as-
tonishing to those not aware of it is, that
the head of a boy or girl does not grow in
size after the seventh year. There is no
sort of doubt about that being somewhat
astonishing, but there is a vast deal of
doubt about it being a fact. It does not
require a brain-expert or anatomist to
decide that point. Any hatter knows that
it is absolutely incorrect. But lest the
whole hatting fraternity be not looked upon
as an offset to Dr. Hammonds authority, I
have permission to state that one of the
leading and I think I will not exaggerate
if I say the foremost brain anatomist of
New York has taken such measurements
for many years, and in his own family there
is a boy whose head has increased in size
steadily up to his eleventh year, and still
offers abundant evidence of its future in-
tentions in the same direction. This, he
assures me, is not exceptional, but is the
usual and normal condition.
