268
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Of course, the ratio of growth decreases,
but the size of the head increases in most
persons up to the twentieth year, and usually
until about the twenty-fifth.
Sincerely yours,
Hklen II. Gardener.
A NATIONAL EXPLORING EXPEDITION.
Editor Popular Science Monthly:
Dear Sir: Whatever the influence has
been that has been brought to bear for the
past five or six years or more, it certainly
has had the effect of moving Congress to
appropriate money toward the building of
some new war-vessels for our navy, and im-
proving our coast-defenses. No doubt all
this was very necessary ; but do you know
that the signs of the times prompt me to
suggest that there are other things that our
navy might be doing during these long days
of peace, which would reflect far more credit
upon us as a nation than if we had the most
powerful fleet of war-vessels afloat in the
world ? Civilized nations are rapidly com-
ing to that chapter in their history wherein
it will be plainly shown that those states
which will command the greatest measure
of respect among us will be the ones which
have best advanced the progress of science,
art, and learning, and developed the culture
that accrues therefrom, and not those who
can cast the biggest cannon, and invent en-
gines which will kill the greatest number of
human beings in the shortest space of time.
Even aside from this, it would almost seem
as if our people overlook the fact sometimes
that were Congress to appropriate to-day suf-
ficient money to build a navy for this coun-
try which would be equal to the navies of
such nations as England, France, or Italy,
before we would have the opportunity to use
it in actual warfare it would be thoroughly
outstripped again by the marvelous rapidity
of the improvement that is constantly go-
ing on in naval architecture. The nations I
have mentioned have to be constantly re-
newing their war-vessels in order to keep
up with the advance in such matters, and
are continually selling their old patterns to
the lesser powers. We have not the com-
petition in the United States to excite any
such movement as this, and the men-of-war
we build to-day will in all probability be as
absolutely powerless to compete with the
massive floating steel and iron fortresses of
France and England of the future, as if we
were to build them as invulnerable as those
vessels now are, and attempt to engage with
what the same nations will surely possess
twenty-five years hence.
One of the great outcries made by the
officers of our navy is, that we are not
held in the proper respect on foreign sta-
tions, or, in other words, our puny little
fishing-smacks do not favorably compare
with the ponderous ironclad hulks that rep-
resent the naval powers of the world, and
tower over them.
Now, I have a notion that the United
States would gain an enormous amount of
respect in the eyes of foreign nations, if
not in the eyes of foreign navies, had she
upon any foreign station one of her very best
men-of-war and two corvettes, completely re-
modeled and thoroughly equipped both as
regards men, officers, and scientific staff,
and the necessary appliances to properly
prosecute an exploring expedition around
the world. It would seem to me that the
commander of such a little fleet, were it
anchored in the harbor of Shanghai or Rio
Janeiro to-day, would feel a far greater
pride in his country than were he in com-
mand of a scventccnth-rale gunboat, compar-
atively speaking, and there should steam in,
with flying colors, such an infernal engine
of destruction as the French man-of-war the
Foudroyant or the Devastation. With all
the iron and steel we could rivet on to
some of our best war-vessels to-day, they
could not be made sufficiently effective to
engage, with the slightest hope of success,
such vessels as the two I have mentioned.
Yet a very moderate expenditure on the part
of Congress would splendidly refit them for
exploring vessels in every sense of the word,
and render them creditable institutions of
the nation.
I am convinced that the day will come
in the history of the world, whether we hold
together as one country or not, when all the
exploits of our navy during the war of the
rebellion will pale, so far as the credit to
humanity is concerned, by what was accom-
plished by the Wilkes Exploring Expedi-
tion ; and England will blush when she com-
pares the victories of her Nelson with the
results obtained by the Challenger Expedi-
tion, and confesses to humanity which was
the more important to the progress of the
world.
Smile if you will, but I believe the day
is coming for us in our race when national
disputes will be settled without costing a
million lives, and the breaking a million
hearts when war between countries will
be as much a thing of the past as the duel
is now between individuals ; and finally,
when the functions of our brain will pre-
vail over the inherited instincts that came
down, or perhaps I had better said passed
up with us, along with our canine teeth.
Let us repeat, at as early a day as possi-
ble, the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, and
sec whether we do not gain credit, respect,
and power by the movement, to say nothing
of all that is sure to accrue from it in other
particulars. Very respectfully,
R. W. Srtfeldt.
Foet Winoate, New Mexico, March 7, 1887.
