EDITORS TABLE.
269
EDITORS TABLE.
HIGHER EDUCATION OF WOMEN.
THE interest which this subject is
exciting at the present moment is,
we take it, a very hopeful sign. The
probability would appear to be that,
in the clash of opinions, the truth will
gradually be beaten out. Every writer
brings to the question his or her own
contribution of real experience ; and,
when once we have the facts properly
sifted, it will not be such a difficult mat-
ter to draw conclusions.
Mrs. Lynn-Linton in England has
taken up a position on this subject that
places her in antagonism to most of
those who have espoused what, for con-
venience, we may call the womens side
of the question. She does not say that
women can not take the highest educa-
tion or make the best use of it, but on
the whole she rather discourages, from
a practical point of view, the effort to
bestow the highest education on any
very large number of women. We do
not wish to be understood as commit-
ting ourselves to all the views she has
advanced ; but we think she has at
least made one forward step by import-
ing certain simple practical considera-
tions into the discussion. She has shown
that an advanced education has an ap-
preciable money value to young men in
a much larger proportion of cases than
it has to young women. Much as we
may talk of education of the mind
and discipline of the faculties, the
education of boys and young men has
mainly been dominated by practical
ends. We are far from saying that
those ends have always been wisely
sought; we simply contend that in gen-
eral they have been recognized. When
a young man has been destined for the
bar, for the Church, for the profession
of medicine, or for some scientific or
literary career, there has been a spe-
cial object in giving him as liberal a
preliminary education as possible; and
such courses of higher education as
have heretofore been devised have had
as their main intention the fitting of
men for professional careers, and not
the mere production of a large number
of finely polished intellects destined for
no particular function whatever. It
may be further said that, in the edu-
cation of men, the definiteness of the
ulterior aim has been to a large extent
the circumstance that has rendered the
imparting of a sound education possi-
ble. The mind can carry what it means
to make use of, what it expects to find
serviceable, far better than it can what
does not point to any special applica-
tion. The education of men has thus
been given a certain concreteness and
a certain actuality from the fact of its
bearing, or, at the very least, being un-
derstood to bear a distinct and definite
relation to practical life.
How is it, now, as regards the edu-
cation of women? It is certainly true
that women are taking to-day a much
wider share in the work of the world
than they did even a generation ago.
Many more careers are open to them,
and their ability to assume even the
most difficult professional duties is no
longer doubted. Manifestly, then, a
practical necessity has arisen for plac-
ing within the reach of women the
highest educational advantages. It can
hardly, however, be maintained that
the somewhat clamorous demand that
has been made of late years on behalf
of women for such advantages has been
mainly inspired by the desire to enable
women to hold their own in various
professional walks. The object has
rather been to produce a generation
of gifted women without reference to
any special practical use to be made
