270
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of their high accomplishments. Cult-
ure for cultures sake has been the
idea, rather than culture for the sake
of more efficient work. Now, we are
well aware that to some it will sound
like a great heresy, but we must frank-
ly confess that we do not believe in
culture for cultures sake, nor in art
for arts sake, nor in science for sci-
ences sake, nor even in truth for
truths sake. We believe that culture
and art and science and truth all find
their value in the human life which
they tend to beautify and improve.
When culture is given merely for cult-
ures sake, it lacks definiteness of aim,
and never seems to know what bound-
aries to observe. We fancy though at
this moment we are not prepared to
speak positively on the point that we
see a result of the unchartered free-
dom of female education in the more
ambitious programmes of female semi-
naries as compared with those devoted to
the teaching of young men. Men know
that they must concentrate their ener-
gies if they are to succeed in the spe-
cial objects they have set before them.
Women, not having (in general) such
special objects, think the whole circle
of knowledge none too vast for their
grasp. We read in a recent article by
a lady upon a well-known college for
ladies that, in passing from class-room
to laboratory and lecture-room, while
observing the work done by professors
and students, one can not fail to be
astonished at its breadth and depth
and wide scope, at its immense quan-
tity and superb quality. Pages would
be required to do it full justice. Is
there any college for men in this coun-
try to which such a description could
be applied without seeming somewhat
overstrained ? We certainly do not re-
member to have seen anything so glow-
ing of either Harvard, Yale, Johns
Hopkins, or Columbia.
Supposing, now, we ask for a moment,
What is higher education for any
given individual ? we should be inclined
to answer with that bent toward prac-
tical views which we have already
avowed that it is not so much educa-
tion in the minutiae of any branch or
branches of knowledge, as education
dominated by a relatively high purpose
and expressly directed to the perfecting
of the individual life with reference to
its normal sphere of activity. Now,
individual life is not perfected, not im-
proved, by any education that ministers
to vanity or ambition. That the college
education of young men often has that
effect we are quite sure ; that the col-
lege education of young women has it
still oftener we are disposed to believe.
Anything that has such an effect for-
feits, in our opinion, its title to be re-
garded as higher education, since it
really is the education and stimulation
of lower impulses and instincts. Apart
from this consideration, however, true
intelligence is not always promoted by
the imparting of a great variety of
knowledge, or even by the special pros-
ecution of particular lines of study.
Whether the mind becomes truly intel-
ligent depends upon whether it is ena-
bled to apply to every -day life the
lessons of the school-room, and to 6ee
all knowledge in its practical bearings.
Many minds, male and female, are, we
are convinced, simply educated away
from true intelligence by the costly ef-
forts that are made to give them the
highest educational advantages. As be-
tween men and women we draw at
present no line whatever in respect to
intellectual qualifications. That the dis-
tinction of sex extends to mind as well
as to bodily organization we think high-
ly probable; but precisely how the dis-
tinction operates in the mental region
can not be dogmatically affirmed ; and
the best thing to do under the circum-
stances is to let the distinction, if there
is one, establish itself in practice. Let
the same educational facilities and priv-
ileges be available for women as for
men ; and in the course of time we shall
perhaps see better than we do now
