272
THE
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bridge, actually to commit to memory
the portions of Greek set, and to go
through the examination successfully
after two or tbree months hard grind-
ing, without obtaining the shadow of
an idea of Greek grammar even, to say
nothing of Greek literature or history !
Of course, no sane man would maintain
that in the case of men who actually
did this any such advantage in the way
of culture and mental discipline could
accrue, as is claimed for the study of
Greek in general.
It is very curious to compare the
views of the adherents of compulso-
ry Greek in Germany, England, and
America. They all agree in maintaining
that the course of required Greek in
their respective countries accomplished
wonders in the way of education.
When we compare, however, what is
actually required for graduation in a
German gymnasium, for example, in
the A. B. course at Cambridge, and in
an A. B. course in any American col-
lege of good standing, we find that the
course in Germany requires fully six
years of earnest study ; in America at
least four or four and a half; and in
England riot over two or three at the
very most. The German apologist for
Greek would maintain, however, that
the small amount required in America
or England is not worth a rush (as in-
deed some of them have said in answer
to a proposition to diminish the amount
of Greek required to something like the
American or English standard, and that
they had better cut it out altogether
rather than treat it in such a step-
motherly way) ; the American claims
that the small amount given in Eng-
land is of little or no value, and insists
that the present requirements in Amer-
ica shall not be cut down.
Outsiders can hardly be blamed for
coming to the conclusion that the Ger-
mans are right, and that we should
either require enough to make it worth
the while, or else cut it out altogether
from the list of required studies. As
it is not at all likely that the amount
required will ever be increased, the
only thing to do is to get rid of that
little which according to the most com-
petent judges is worth nothing at all.
We would not be misunderstood, or
have opinions ascribed to us which we
do not hold. We do not desire to at-
tack the study of Greek or the policy
of offering the most ample facilities for
its pursuit. On the contrary, we con-
sider that from no branch of study can
one whose tastes lie in that direction
derive more benefit in the years before
he takes up special lines of work than
from Greek. But we can not disre-
gard the fact that such pupils are usu-
ally only one or two among a large
class who are looking forward to some
higher course of instruction, who suc-
ceed in accomplishing more than mere-
ly to drag through the prescribed
course. We believe that many stu-
dents, who might be capable of showing
marked talents in other directions have
been deterred from advancing to high-
er courses of instruction by the fact
that Greek lay in the way. In schools
dominated by the classical spirit, every
sort of talent is measured by its ability
to make grade in the classics. All who
can not come up to this standard are
made to feel that they are considered
inferior students. They are specials,
or partials, or generals, or some-
thing else, which implies that they are
not so good as the regular classical
students. We can not but think that
this fact has lain at the bottom of the
failure of many a one in the past, who
under a different system would have
been quickened to a new intellectual
life and raised into a higher sphere of
usefulness.
The notion that liberal views of life,
wide intellectual sympathies, a broad
humanity in a word, that all those
qualities that should distinguish a gen-
tleman and a scholar from his opposite
are the exclusive products of one line
of studies, may be, we think, properly
