LITERARY NOTICES.
273
enough characterized as a fetich ; and
it is a fetich which has done and is
doing much harm in the educational
world. We believe it is losing its hold
upon the minds of men very rapidly,
and that we have great reason to con-
gratulate ourselves upon this fact. Its
final destruction need not, and we do
not think it will, lead to the disappear-
ance of Greek from our courses of lib-
eral study, but it will deprive it of that
peculiar position of predominance which
it has held in Western education for the
last three hundred years a predomi-
nance which, however beneficial at
some stages of our modern era, is now
the source of far more injury than
benefit.
ANNO UNCEMENT.
The editor takes pleasure in an-
nouncing the commencement, in the
July number of The Popular Science
Monthly, of a series of articles, by Da-
vid A. Wells, on the economic disturb-
ances commonly spoken of as A De-
pression of Trade and Industry, which
have prevailed to a greater or less ex-
tent throughout the whole civilized
world since the years 1872-73 ; and, in
the opinion of not a few economists
and investigators of repute, are yet
very far from having come to an end.
The subject, considered either histori-
cally, or in view of its bearing on in-
dustrial progress, the accumulation and
distribution of wealth, and the rela-
tions of capital and labor in the fu-
ture, is one of the highest interest,
and has already engaged the atten-
tion of several national commissions
on both sides of the Atlantic. It is
almost unnecessary to state that the
author brings to its discussion which
necessarily involves the phenomena of
the so-called over-production, the
discontent of labor, the depression of
prices, bimetalism, and the increasing
tendency among nations to impose ar-
tificial restrictions on trade and com-
vol. xxxi. 18
merce the results of very thorough
study, as well as world-wide reputa-
tion for determining and popularly pre-
senting economic facts and conclusions.
Mr. Wells is known as a trained ob-
server, who looks at things with judi-
cial fairness, and has formed the habit
of arriving at his opinions independent-
ly of all prejudice, and of presenting
them with candor and precision. It
is, therefore, reasonable to anticipate
that his conclusions will command, as
they deserve, very general attention.
LITERARY NOTICES.
INTEENATIONAL EDUCATION 8EEIES.
The Rise and Early Constitution op Uni-
versities, with a Survey of Medieval
Education. By S. S. Laurie, LL. D.
New York: D. Appleton Co. Pp. 31
+ 293. Price, $1.50.
The many teachers, parents, and others
who are forced to decide between conflicting
policies in higher education will be greatly
helped toward an intelligent decision by a
study of the methods which prevailed in
the early universities. It is the aim of the
third volume of the International Educa-
tion Series to present a general survey of
these methods. The author begins with a
sketch of the schools whose character was
determined by the union of Roman and Hel-
lenic culture in the time of Augustus, and
traces their decline after the Christianizing
of the empire, and the rise of Christian
schools in their stead. The influence of
Christianity at first was to discourage the
earlier culture, as tending to foster pagan-
ism, or, at best, as being a mere dissipa-
tion. All teaching in the Christian schools
was with a view to pious uses, and the cur-
riculum was generally restricted to arithme-
tic, reading the psalter, and music. These
schools had reached quite a promising condi-
tion in the sixth century, but retrograded in
the seventh and eighth, so that when Charle-
magne became Emperor of the West the
education of Europe was in a barbarous
state. This monarch made the improve-
ment and extension of the episcopal and
monastery schools an important part of his
policy. To his court at Aix he invited such
