LITERARY NOTICES.
275
a book covering only a portion of psycholo-
gy in giving us his metaphysics as if estab-
lished by psychology generally. His work
presents only a part of the data, and uutil
he has gone over the whole ground he has
no business with ultimate questions. The
topic, The Nature of Mind, is indeed in-
teresting, but it is greatly to be regretted
that Professer Ladd could not restrain him-
self from discussing it until the opportunity
was afforded in some clearly appropriate
connection.
A Treatise on Surveying, comprising the
Theory and the Practice. By Will-
iam M. Gillespie, LL. D. Revised and
enlarged by Cady Staley, Ph. D. New
York: D. Appleton Co. Pp. 549 and
127. Price, $3.50.
Professor Gillespies standard treatise
on Land-Surveying, published in 1855,
was prepared with a view of producing a
very plain introduction to the subject, easy
to be mastered by the young scholar or the
practical man of little previous acquirement,
the only prerequisites being arithmetic and
a little geometry ; and at the same time to
make the instruction of such a character as
to lay a foundation broad enough and deep
enough for the most complete superstruct-
ure which the professional student may sub-
sequently wish to raise upon it. A second
work, on Leveling and Higher Survey-
ing, was left unfinished at the authors
death, but was completed by the editor of
the present volume, and published in 18*70.
These two works have now been revised
and combined by Dr. Staley. The general
divisions of the resulting treatise are land-
surveying, leveling, topography, triangular
surveying, hydrographical surveying, and
mining surveying. Somewhat more than
half of the body of the volume is occupied
with the first of these divisions, comprising
minute descriptions of instruments, direc-
tions for making measurements, keeping
field-notes, platting surveys, and practical
instruction in laying out, parting off, and di-
viding up land, including the methods used
in surveying the public lands of the United
States. In the section on leveling, spirit-
leveling receives most attention, and brief
accounts are given of the methods of trigo-
nometric and barometric leveling. Under
topography, modes of topographical repre-
sentation arc abundantly illustrated, and the
use of the plane table is described.
An Appendix is devoted to a synopsis of
plane trigonometry, and another takes up
certain theorems relating to transversals,
harmonic division, and the complete quad-
rilateral. Following these are an analytical
table of contents, traverse-tables, tables of
chords, logarithms, logarithmic sines, etc.,
and natural sines, etc., a stadia table, and
a table of refraction in declination. The
volume contains abundant illustrations of
instruments and operations, and an isogonic
chart of the United States for lS85-86.
Social Studies. By R. Heber Newton,
New York : G. P. Putnams Sons. Pp.
380. Price, $1.
This is a collection of essays on social
questions, some of which appeared origi-
nally as articles in periodicals, while others
were prepared for special occasions ; thus,
three of them were read before the Church
Congress ; one before the United States
Senate Committee on Education and Labor ;
one at the annual banquet of the Chamber of
Commerce ; and one before the Free Relig-
ious Association. The titles arc: ABirds-
Eye View of the Labor Question ; The
Story of Co-operative Production and Co-
operative Credit in the United States ; Is
the State just to the Workingman ? Old-
Time Guilds and Modern Commercial Asso-
ciations ; The Prevention of Intemper-
ance; Moral Education in the Public
Schools ; The Free Kindergarten in
Church Work ; The Religious Aspect of
Socialism ; and Communism.
The Westminster Review. Vol. 128, No.
1. April, 1887. London. Triibner
Co. New York : The International News
Company.
This Review, now in its sixty-fourth
year, with the current number makes a new
departure. Henceforth it will be issued
monthly, and various changes will be made
in the direction of suffusing the work with
fresh vigor and adapting it to altered con-
ditions of the reading public. Among other
things it promises to give special atten-
tion to the literature of science, and that
the exposition and discussion of scientific
subjects (which, in comparison with the
whole of the other departments of intellect-
