276
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ual activity, have now attained commanding
pre-eminence and supreme importance) will
in future constitute a distinctive feature of
the work. We understand that the inten-
tion is to allow about three eighths of the
space of each monthly issue to American
contributions; of the latter there are two
in the number before us, both excellent ar-
ticles: one, by Hon. Oscar S. Straus, United
States Minister to Turkey, upon the De-
velopment of Religious Liberty in Ameri-
ca ; the other, by Thomas G. Shearman,
Esq., entitled The Protectionist Revival
in Great Britain. These articles have an
American copyright. The next number, we
are informed, will contain an article by
Mrs. Clara Lanza, of this city, upon Fiction
as National Literature, and another by
Horace E. Deming, Esq., also of New York,
upon The Machine in American Politics.
Tables for the Determination op Com-
mon Minerals. By W. 0. Crosb?. Bos-
ton : J. Allen Crosby. Pp. 74.
The reasons which have led Professor
Crosby to publish these tables are that the
best tables which have preceded them are
overloaded with descriptions of minerals
seldom met with, and give determinations
based largely on chemical properties, which
are not so conveniently ascertainable as the
morphologic and physical properties. Pro-
fessor Crosbys tables, which are an out-
growth of his experience as an instructor at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
aim to determine about two hundred species
all that the student is likely to have oc-
casion to identify by their more obvious
physical and structural features, adding
chemical tests to be used when the identifi-
cation is not otherwise perfectly satisfacto-
ry. Only those tests have been selected re-
quiring the minimum of apparatus, reagents,
and previous chemical training. The prop-
erties of minerals, and the chemical and
blow-pipe tests referred to in the tables, are
explained in an introduction. In the ta-
bles, minerals are divided first into two class-
es, those with metallic and those with non-
metallic luster, and then by the color in the
former class and the streak in the latter,
and further by the hardness ; they are sub-
divided into forty-one groups. A concise
physical description of each species is given,
by which it may be distinguished from the
others of the same group, and the last col-
umn of the tables is devoted to chemical
tests. An index of species is appended.
The Argentine General Catalogue. Mean
Positions of Southern Stars determined
at the National Observatory, Benjamin
A. Gould, Director. Cordoba. 1886.
This volume puts the public in posses-
sion of the main results of Dr. Goulds
great labors in Cordoba. The catalogue
contains 32,448 stars, and there are many
hundreds more in appended lists of clusters,
the number of observations exceeding 145,-
000. The work includes nearly all the stars
in the southern heavens, down to the 8-^
magnitude, the exceptions chiefly lying north
of 23 of south declination, a region already
covered by other catalogues. Of the sur-
passing accuracy of the work, and the mi-
nute care with which every part of it has
been executed, it would be impertinent for
us to speak. To the layman, the contem-
plation of such a monument of genius, bend-
ing itself to incalculable assiduity, is truly a
moral lesson.
A Systematic Hand-Book. of Volumetric
Analysis. Adapted to the Requirements
of Pure Chemical Research, Pathological
Chemistry, Pharmacy, Metallurgy, Manu-
facturing Chemistry, Photography, etc.,
and for the Valuation of Substances
used in Commerce, Agriculture, and the
Arts. By Francis Sutton, F. C. S., F. I. C.
Fifth edition. Philadelphia: P. Blakis-
ton, Son Co. Pp. 491. Price, $4.50.
When discoveries of chemical reactions
and methods are being published so volu-
minously as at present, frequent revisions
are necessary to keep a manual of analysis
abreast of the times. In preparing this
edition of his hand-book, Mr. Sutton has
completely revised the work, and has add-
ed new methods. He has excluded some
of the matter of previous editions as being
of little value, among which is the system-
atic analysis of soils and manures by volu-
metric methods, also that of indigo, for
which no satisfactory process is known.
The opening section of the book is devoted
to a description of apparatus and instru-
ments. The second section is on analysis
by saturation, and comprises alkalimetry
and acidimetry, including in each division
