LITERARY NOTICES.
277
the examination of a number of commer-
cial products. This section includes de-
scriptions of the new indicators derived
from the azo-colors, which have been in-
troduced recently by R. T. Thompson. The
third section deals with analysis by oxi-
dation or reduction, and the fourth with
analysis by precipitation. The foregoing
principles are then applied to the estima-
tion of the important elements and radi-
cals, which are taken up in alphabetical
order. A chapter is devoted to the analysis
of urine, potable waters, sewage, etc., and
another to gas analysis. In the latter field
there has been marked improvement in
technical processes since the last edition
of this work was issued. The book is well
supplied with illustrations showing forms
of apparatus, and methods of arranging it
for special operations.
Mineral Resources of the United States.
1885. By Albert Williams, Jr. Wash-
ington : Government Printing - Office.
Pp. 576.
The present volume is the third of a
series designed to present the principal sta-
tistics concerning the mineral productions
of the United States, together with such
descriptive matter as will throw light upon
the condition of the industries which those
products materially affect, or will aid in
utilizing material which has no value at
present. The first volume covered 1882
and the first half of 1883 ; the second vol-
ume continued the record till the end of
1884. These volumes were noticed in the
Monthly when they appeared. The pres-
ent volume includes the calendar year 1885.
The material for the accounts has been ob-
tained by canvass for precise returns where
that was practicable ; otherwise, from es-
timates of authorities as checked by actual
returns from all available sources. Much
of it appears in the form of special articles
by persons who are experts, or have given
particular attention to the subject. The
principle is observed of not repeating (ex-
cept in the tables^, information given the
previous year ; hence it happens that, where
no change has been made in the condi-
tions, attending any product, that title may
temporarily disappear from the record.
Prominence is given in the presentation to
coal, coke, petroleum, natural gas, and the
economical metals under some of which
headings several articles of special value
appear. Thus, Mr. Joseph D. Weeks treats
of the manufacture of coke, of natural gas,
manganese, and glass materials ; Mr. S. IL
Stowell, of petroleum ; J. M. Swank, Gen-
eral Manager of the American Iron and
Steel Association, gives a review of twenty-
one years of progress in manufacture ; C.
Kirchhoff, Jr., contributes articles on the
copper, lead, and zinc industries of the
United States ; Mr. David T. Day, on chromi-
um, zirconium, phosphatic rock fertilizers,
and iodine ; Mr. N. S. Sproule, on structural
materials ; Mr. George F. Kunz, on precious
stones; William C. Day, on sulphur and
feldspar; Herbert J. Davis, on pyrites;
Marcus Benjamin, on mineral paints ; G. F.
Perrenoud, on talc ; and A. C. Peale, on
mineral waters.
A Treatise on Algebra. By Professors
Oliver, Wait, and Jones, of Cornell
University Ithaca, N. Y. : Dudley F.
Finch. Pp. 412.
This work is a text-book for college
classes, being planned especially for the
classes conducted by its authors. It is,
therefore, not a book for beginners, but
for students who have already studied the
elements of algebra and geometry. In
writing it the authors have had two rules
for their guidance. One was, to assume no
previous knowledge of algebra, but, start-
ing from primary definitions and axioms,
to develop the elementary principles in log-
ical order ; the other was to define clearly
every word and symbol used in a technical
sense, to state formally every general prin-
ciple, and, if not an axiom, to prove it
rigorously, to state formally every general
problem, and to give a rule for its solution
with reasons, examples, and checks. The
book contains much matter that is not
found in the common college algebras
more, in fact, than can be used with ordi-
nary classes yet its wide range is expect-
ed to make it valuable as a reference-book
for teachers, and as a guide for students
who wish to pursue the study beyond the
usual limits. The authors have pursued a
course which they believe accords with the
tendencies of modern algebraic work, in
utilizing graphic representation, the ele-
ments of infinitesimal analysis, and the
