278
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
calculus of operations, for the purpose of
attaining a natural and philosophical pres-
entation of the subject. Symbolic lan-
guage has been largely employed ; in some
cases larger meanings have been given to
old words, and new words and symbols
have been introduced. Another edition is
to contain chapters on the theory of equa-
tions, integer analysis, symbolic methods,
determinants and groups, probabilities and
insurance, and an index will be added.
The Scientific Writings of Joseph ITenry.
Washington: Published by the Smith-
sonian Institution. Two vols. Pp. 523,
559.
These volumes comprise the first col-
lection that has been made of Professor
Henrys scientific writings. The original
papers, having been given to the world from
time to time through a period of more than
fifty years, and published in widely remote
places, are now generally rare, and in many
cases nearly inaccessible. Their value, even
at this time, as we glance over them in these
handsome volumes, might well strike with
surprise persons who, recognizing how much
advance has been made in research during
the last sixty years, would naturally imagine
that they were superseded by what has been
discovered since they were written. But
most of them were in the lead of the science
of the time of their production, and some
of them, even on subjects now of the most
lively investigation, read as if they might
have been written to-day. It was a becom-
ing act in the Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution to present these writings in the
noble shape in which they appear ; and we
can join with them in the feeling which they
express that it seemed to them that jus-
tice to the name and memory of their dis-
tinguished Secretary who made the Institu-
tion what it is, no less than a due regard
to the history of physical science in this
country, and the interests of its present
votaries, require that these writings should
now be collected and made available. The
act is all the more graceful, because, as the
regents also observe, it is noteworthy, and
indeed is characteristic of their author,
that he sedulously abstained from publish-
ing any of his researches of the later period
or reproducing any of the earlier ones
very important though he knew them to
be through the inviting channel of the
Smithsonian Contributions, or Miscel-
laneous Collections, or in any way at the
expense of the Smithsonian fund. The
writings are naturally grouped under two
periods : the first, comprising the record of
the authors researches from 1824 to 1S46,
during his professorial career at Albany
and Princeton ; and the second that of his
scientific work from 1817 to 1878, during
his directorship of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion at Washington. The arrangement of
the papers is chronological, except that the
series recording the authors observations
on the phenomena of sound are, for the
sake of equalizing the size of the volumes,
removed from their proper position in the
second volume to the end of the first vol-
ume ; and the second volume is made to
begin with a continuous presentation of the
series of meteorological essays. The pub-
lication is made under the direction and
supervision of Dr. Asa Gray, the Hon. W.
L. Wilson, and Professor S. F. Baird, com-
mittee.
Transactions of the Modern Language
Association of America. 18S4-S5.
Vol. I. Baltimore : Published by the
Association. Pp. 250: Modern Lan-
guage Notes. A. Marshall Elliott,
Managing Editor. Eight numbers a
year. Baltimore. Pp. 48. Price, 15
cents a number.
We have already noticed the formation
of the Modern Language Association, and
its objects, which may be briefly expressed
as to encourage and exalt the study of the
modern languages, and to secure to them
their equal place of consideration with the
ancient languages and other branches of
college study. The present volume of its
Transactions, with its eighteen papers on
various aspects of the subject, shows how
well it is working to its purpose. Two of
the papers are mainly literary. A half-
dozen of them may be grammatical. Pro-
fessor Alcee Fortier gives an interesting
account of The Freno^ Language in Loui-
siana and the Negro-French Dialect. The
other papers refer more or less directly to
practical questions of instruction in modern
languages and English literature. Profess-
or W. T. Hewett considers the aims and
methods of college instruction in modern
