LITERARY NOTICES.
279
languages ; Professor N. G. Brandt inquires
how far our teaching and text-books should
have a scientific basis ; and Professor J. M.
Hart, how the college course in English
literature may be improved. Professor F.
V. N. Painter outlines A Modern Classical
Course ; Professor T. W. Hunt defines the
place of English in the college curriculum ;
and Dr. Francis B. Gunmere asks, What
Place has Old English Philology in our
Elmentary School ? German Classics
as a Means of Education (Goethe) is dis-
cussed by Dr. Julius Goebel ; The Require-
ments in English for Admission to College,
by Professor G. R. McElroy ; The Use of
English in teaching Foreign Languages
by Professor H. C. G. von Jagemann ; and
The Real-Gymnasium Question, by Pro-
fessor A. Marshall Elliott.
The Modern Language Notes began
its second year with the January number,
1887, considerably more than twice as large
as was the first number, yet with price
unchanged, and with subscriptions and ad-
vertising lists that have more than covered
expenses since the sixth issue. The matter
is of a piece with that of the Transac-
tions, with the addition of book reviews,
brief paragraphs, and such current news
as has a connection with modern language
studies. It is intended henceforth to give,
with running comments, the titles of lead-
ing articles appearing in foreign journals
devoted to the modern languages, and to
keep abreast with the best production in
this branch of linguistic science.
The American Naturalist. Vol. XXI.
No. 1. January, 1887. Philadelphia:
J. B. Lippincott Company. Pp. 110.
Price, $4 a year.
With the beginning of the current year,
this periodical passed into the hands of the
J. B. Lippincott Company, of Philadelphia.
Professor Cope continues as leading editor,
while Professor Packard, his associate, re-
tires, and is succeeded by J. S. Kingsley.
With these gentlemen co-operate seven ex-
perts in their special branches of science as
Department Editors in Geography, Min-
eralogy, Botany, Embryology, Physiology,
Anthropology, and Microscopy. The pub-
lishers announce that the history of the
Naturalist during the twenty years of its
existence has been one of gradual devel-
opment, that its subscription list now much
exceeds that of any previous period, and
its prosperity is fully assured. It is cred-
itable to our people that this should be so,
for appreciation of a journal of this charac-
ter, and of one that maintains so high a
standard as that of the Naturalist, is a
sign of no ordinary degree of cultivation,
and of a desire to learn science by working
in it. The Naturalist was a pioneer in
its field, and it occupies a sphere which no
other journal so fully and so peculiarly fills.
In last years volumes original articles ap-
peared from one hundred American natural-
ists, and a like list of contributors is in
prospective for the present year. In the
hands of so extensive and successful a house
as that of its new proprietors, its opportuni-
ties for usefulness are certain to be greatly
increased.
Latin Word - Building. By Charles 0.
Gates. New York : D. Appleton Co.
Pp. 160. Price, 98 cents.
This manual is intended to aid in re-
moving the difficulty which Latin students
feel in translating at sight, growing out of
ignorance of the exact meaning of the root-
words. Experience has taught that the vo-
cabulary is more readily mastered and exact
and definite meanings of words are more
easily acquired and retained by making
familiar the significance of the roots and
associating with it the meanings of the
modifications, with affixes and suffixes, end-
ings, etc., by which they are affected, and so
reaching the significance of derivative words
by a kind of general rule, than by looking
out all the words singly in the dictionary.
The manual aims to assist in this process.
The method is, first, to learn the exact
meaning of the root-word ; then to acquire
the definite meanings of the more common
words derived from the root-word ; and then
to utilize the information thus gained by
translating sentences illustrating thesewords
from the author next to be read in regular
course. The first part of the volume com-
prises an etymological vocabulary, in which
the meanings of the root-words, their modi-
fications, and groups of their derivatives
are given, with space left on the page for
the insertion by the pupil of such new mat-
