28 2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
for 255 yards of Turkey-red cloth. We are
at present acquainted, among the deriva-
tives from coal-tar, with about sixteen dis-
tinct yellow colors, about twelve oranges,
more than thirty reds, about fifteen blues,
seven greens, and nine violets ; and a num-
ber of browns and blacks, besides mixtures
of the several chemical compounds, giving
rise to an almost infinite number of shades
and tones of color. These colors are capa-
ble of a rough arrangement according as
they are originally derived from one or
other of the hydrocarbons contained in the
coal-tar. In the class called azo-colors, an
azo or nitrogen group replaces the hydro-
gen in phenols and amido-compounds. They
are chiefly bright scarlets, oranges, reds,
and yellows, with a few blues and violets.
Next in importance to the color industry
comes the still more novel discovery of the
synthetical production of antipyretic medi-
cine. The initiative in the production of
these compounds was given in the discovery
by Professor Dewar, in 1881, that quinoline,
their basis, is an aromatic compound ; from
it he obtained aniline. Kairine, the first of
the antipyretics in the order of discovery,
is manufactured from quinoline. It effects
a remarkable lowering of the temperature
of the body, which, however, is of much
shorter duration than that effected by qui-
nine ; but, with the exception of its burning
taste, it exerts no such evil effects as arc
often observed after the administration of
large doses of quinine. Antipyrine, the
second of these febrifuges, was discovered
in 1883. It is made from aniline and
accto-acetic ether. As a febrifuge, it is su-
perior in many respects to kairine and even
to quinine. It equals kairine in the cer-
tainty of its action, while in its duration it
resembles quinine. It is almost tasteless
and odorless, is easily soluble in cold water,
and takes the form of a white crystalline
powder. Its use in medicine is accompanied
by no drawback. A third artificial febri-
fuge is thalline, which is said to be used as
an antidote for yellow fever. None of
these substances are anti-pcriodics ; and
consequently they can not supplant quinine
in cases of ague and intermittent fevers.
Another group of coal-tar products com-
prises the artificial aromatic essences.
Among these are cumarine, the principle of
new-mown hay; vanilline, of vanilla,
with its derivative vanillen, which is used
in preparing essence of heliotrope ; mir-
bane, a soap-perfume, and the artificial oil
of bitter almonds. The most remarkable of
all the coal-tar products is probably saccha-
rine, a substance which surpasses sugar in
sweetness. It is not a sugar, for it con-
tains sulphur and nitrogen, nor does it act
as a nutriment, but it is non-poisonous, and
passes out of the body unchanged.
A Lesson in Practical Anthropology.
Sir C. W. Wilson, in a paper read in the
British Association, on The Wild Tribes of
the Soudan, after describing the tribes and
their clans, with their divisions and alliances,
remarked that it was interesting to observe
how thoroughly General Gordon had under-
stood the situation in that region, and at
once pointed out the remedy. When he left
England, his instructions had been to pro-
ceed direct to Suakin, open up communica-
tion with the supreme sheik of the Iladen-
dowas who had taken no part in the rebel-
lion, and isolate and crush Osman Digma by
raising against him the surrounding tribes,
whose sheiks he knew personally. There
can be little question that if this policy had
been carried out early in 1884, before
Sinkat fell and Baker Pasha had been de-
feated, it would have been successful. But,
unfortunately, General Gordons plans were
changed and he proceeded up the Nile. Mr.
Hyde Clarke congratulated the section on
having had such a paper submitted to them,
and said that Sir Charles Wilson had given
them a useful exemplification of the value
of anthropological studies. They had seen
how incidents in the war in the Soudan had
turned rather on the knowledge of the men
than of the physical features of the country.
Photography of the Stars. Professor
Edward S. Holden has given, in the Over-
land Monthly, a popular account of the
methods and an estimate of the expecta-
tions of stellar photography. The photo-
graphic telescope requires special construc-
tion and arrangement of the lenses, which
differentiate it from ordinary telescopes. If
it is set fixed, the image of the star pass-
ing across the sensitive plate will leave a
trail, which is the visible representative
