POPULAR MISCELLANY.
283
of the direction of the stars diurnal motion.
If arranged with a driving-clock, so as to
follow the star in its motion, it will give a
bright point, the photographic image. If
we wish to make a picture of the sky, we
must register the stars by such points as
these. But the trails have various advan-
tages, one of which it that they can not
be mistaken for dust or for pin-holes on the
plate itself ; to avoid the liability to which,
the dot-pictures are always repeated. The
position of dots in latitude and longitude
can be very accurately measured; the lati-
tude of the star can be even better deter-
mined from its trail, but its longitude must
be determined by special devices. The
proper length of exposure for a star of
the first magnitude is not more than y-^iT
of a second. For a star just visible to the
naked eye, half a second is enough ; for
stars of the tenth magnitude, twenty sec-
onds ; of the twelfth, two minutes; of the
thirteenth, five minutes ; of the fourteenth,
thirteen minutes ; and for the faintest stars
visible, an hour and twenty-three minutes.
Fire-Proof Mixtures. The processes
employed to make cloths and woods unin-
flammable ought to satisfy the following
conditions: 1. The preservative substance
or mixture should be cheap and easily used.
2. It should not change either the cloths or
their colors. 3. It should not be poisonous
or corrosive. 4. Cloths or woods impreg-
nated with it should remain uninflammable
after having been exposed for a month to a
temperature of 100 and over. La Na-
ture gives a few of the preparations which
seem best to satisfy the different conditions
required. A mixture applicable to all light
fabrics consists of pure sulphate of ammonia,
8 kilogrammes ; pure carbonate of ammonia,
2*5 kilogrammes ; boric acid, 3 kilogrammes ;
pure borax, 2 kilogrammes ; starch, 2 kilo-
grammes, or dextrine, or gelatine; water,
100 kilogrammes. Cloths should be dipped
in the solution at a temperature of about 84,
till they have soaked it well up, then partly
dried in the air, and afterward dried enough
to be ironed like starched clothes. The
quantity of starch, dextrine, or gelatine,
may be varied according to the degree of
stiffness it is desired to give the goods.
This mixture is good for ball-dresses. A
quart of it will serve for the preparation
of about sixteen yards of goods. A mixt-
ure applicable to canvas that is already
painted and to mounted scenery, to wood-
work, furniture, curtains, bedclothes, cra-
dles, doors, and windows, and which can be
mixed with dyes, consists of sal-ammoniac,
15 kilogrammes ; boric acid, 5 kilogrammes ;
glue, 50 kilogrammes ; gelatine, l - 5 kilo-
gramme ; water, 100 kilogrammes, with
lime enough to give the proper consistency.
It should be employed at a temperature of
from 122 to 140. The pieces may be
dipped into it or painted with it. In case
of decorations already painted it is enough
to whitewash the backs of the canvases,
and the frames on which they are hung,
with the preparation. A kilogramme of it
will paint five square metres of surfaces.
A mixture applicable to heavier canvas-
es, cordage, straw-work, wood, and car-
pentery, consists of sal-ammoniac, 15 kilo-
grammes ; boric acid, 6 kilogrammes ; borax,
5 kilogrammes; water, 100 kilogrammes.
It is used at a temperature of 212. The
immersion should continue fifteen or twenty
minutes, after which the piece should be
aired and then dried. Another mixture is
applicable to plain or printed papers. It con-
sists of sulphate of ammonia, 8 kilogrammes ;
boric acid, 3 kilogrammes ; borax, 2 kilo-
grammes ; and water, 100 kilogrammes. It is
used at a temperature of 122. To resolve
the problem completely that is to reduce
the action of heat on combustible articles to
a simple calcination and render them unin-
flammable, and consequently incapable of
starting or supporting a fire the composi-
tions should protect the fibers of the cloth
or wood from contact with the air during
the whole continuance of the heat ; and the
combustible gases disengaged by the heat
should be mixed with so strong a portion
of other, incombustible gases as to be no
longer inflammable. Therefore, the cloth
or the wood should be painted with a very
fusible substance which, on the first im-
pression of heat, will cover the surface of
the fibers, adhere to them, and prevent the
contact of the air. Salts that crumble un-
der the action of heat, or of long-continued
dryness, those that are hard to melt, efflo-
rescing and hygrometric substances, are,
therefore, not the most suitable for these
