284
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
applications. Borax and boric acid, which
are included in the four receipts here given,
are very fusible, and are not changed by
heat, but only by an excess of moisture
in the air, and well fulfill the first condition.
Hydrochlorate, carbonate, and sulphate of
ammonia readily give off incombustible
gases, which have also the positive quality
of extinguishing combustion, and thus ad-
mirably fulfill the other condition. Hence
the compositions recommended possess all
the desired qualities. They have also re-
sponded satisfactorily to varied tests of ex-
periment.
A New African Region. The Rev.
David Asante, a native missionary of the
Basle Gold Coast mission, Africa, recently
visited during a journey of exploration the
hill-country of Booso, where he says the
temperature is cool, rains are frequent, and
rivulets numerous. The country is thinly
peopled by a population subject to goitre
and extremely dirty, whose children and
bachelors wear no clothing. Wives, being
harder to get by the process of wooing
and winning their consent than in most
African countries are treated well. The
fetich-worship is less subtile than on the
coast, but the poison-ordeal is frequently
resorted to, and accounts for the small
population. Wben a person dies, a whole
village sometimes submits to take an in-
fusion of a poisonous bark. Quarrels are
settled by resorting to the same dangerous
arbiter, thefts are discovered by it, babies
who cry much are made to swallow the in-
fusion to prevent their growing up wicked,
and parents who lose several children in
succession take it in order that the cause
of their affliction may be discovered.
Petrolenm Prodnets as Fnel. The resi-
dues of the distillation of petroleum have
been employed in the Caucasus for several
years as a combustible, and have appreciated
from having no value in 1874 till they com-
mand a price six times higher than crude
naphtha, which is now employed as a cheap-
er fuel. Naphtha has been considered dan-
gerous on account of its explosive qualities,
but it has been found that they disappear
when the liquid ha* been exposed to the
air for a few days till it has lost its volatile
constituents, which compose about fifteen
per cent of its substance. Crude naphtha,
right from the springs, is burned in the lo-
comotive-furnaces of the Balachanskoi rail-
road, and there are no accidents. Naph-
tha is the fuel that develops the greatest
quantity of heat, and it also possesses the
great advantage of not containing sulphur
or other injurious substances. Ninety per
cent of the theoretic calorific power can be
realized from it, while not more than sixty
per cent can be got from solid combustibles.
In 1859, doubts were expressed in Russia
as to whether petroleum could be used as a
combustible ; now it is employed exclusively
on all the ships in the Caspian Sea, and only
half as much of it is required as used to be
consumed of coal. The maximum force to
be obtained from petroleum is equivalent
to two and a half times what coal will fur-
nish ; and experiments on the railroad from
Baku to Balachan show that a given weight
of naphtha will take the place of eight and
a half times the weight of wood, although
the theoretically calculated difference in
calorific power is only as three to one.
Petroleum is very conveniently introduced
into the furnaces of locomotives with the
injectors that are used; the combustion is
very easily regulated, and the furnaces last
well in the absence of sulphur, while no
smoke, sparks, or ashes, are emitted.
Make Room for City Children. Dr. James
B. Russell, health-officer of Glasgow, while
he admits that the moral delinquencies of
parents, and particularly drunkenness, are
important factors to the death-rate of chil-
dren in cities, insists that too much influ-
ence should not be attributed to them. The
child of sober, industrious parents, in a city
of good sanitary conditions, still lacks room
for his complete well-being. The element
of space comprehends all the physical condi-
tions of health so completely that the name
density is recognized by vital statisticians a9
the best standard of comparative measure-
ment. Then, as the child grows up, comes
the natural desire for play and exercise,
which is essential for health and growth.
Pent up as city children are, their play be-
comes in great part mischief. The prevail-
ing characteristics of childrens play corre-
spond with the manners, habits, and occu-
