POPULAR MISCELLANY.
285
pations of the adult population ; thus, city
children may very often be seen playing at
being drunk, or at policemen and thieves,
and at fighting. Nothing can be more piti-
ful than this compulsory perversion of a
natural instinct into unwholesome ways.
Among the best methods of recruiting city
children, the author recommends the system
of holiday colonies, which is in vogue in
several European countries. Selected, poor,
weakly children, between the ages of seven
and fourteen, are sent in colonies of from
ten to forty each, under teachers, and the
month constituting the school holiday is
spent at farm-houses or school-houses in the
open country. The improvement in health
from these outings has been proved not to
be temporary. Provisions for a similar pur-
pose in some of the cities of the United
States are commended. The laying out of
cities needs to be modified with reference
to the requirements of children. Wherever
the element of space is involved in any pro-
posed legislation, let the people support
that which will give them the most space
about their dwellings. Tbey would save in-
creased taxation in doctors bills and burial
expenses. They should remember that the
most useful open spaces are those which
are close to their houses. Distant parks
are not substitutes for the occasional simple
play-ground in the heart of the city. Both
together form a provision for the young
children as well as for the adults.
The Great Inland Depression of Brazil.
It is interesting, says Mr. J. W. Wells, in
a paper on The Physical Geography of
Brazil, to note the great depression that
extends through the center of the South
American Continent, practically similar to
what exists in the North American. A canoe
can be navigated from the Rio Orinoco to
the Rio Negro, thence to the Amazons, then
up the Rios Madeira, Mamore, GuaporS, and
Alegr, where it will not be more than five
or six hundred feet above the sea. It can
then be hauled across a low, grassy flat,
as is often done, to the Rio Agoapehy, and
then descend by the Rio Jauru and Rio
Paraguay to Buenos Ayres. The distance
from the Amazons to the Plate by this route
is about twenty-five hundred miles, of which
sixteen hundred and fifty miles have already
been traversed by steamers, leaving eight
hundred and fifty miles to be navigated.
But it must not be inferred that the whole
of this route offers an almost uninterrupted
course of navigable rivers ; on the contrary,
the remaining eight hundred and fifty miles
that have not been explored by steamers,
not only contain insurmountable obstacles
to the passage of even the lightest-draught
steamer, but in many places to even the
ascent of a canoe. Yet this route will most
probably be, in the more or less remote
future, the main line of internal commu-
nication. By far the greater part of the
lands of this natural way are as undevel-
oped as the Congo of Africa. A connection
also exists between the Rio San Francisco
and the Rio Tocantins. A canoe can leave
the former river and go up the Rios Grande,
Preto, and Sapao. The source of the last
river is in a beautiful lake in a valley sur-
rounded by fortress - looking table -topped
hills ; the margins of the lake are bordered
by groves of grand Burity palms ; on the
west the lake drains out into a quick-flow-
ing, considerable stream, the Rio Diego,
joins a Rio Preto, and thence onward by
the Rio do Sonno to the Tocantins. This
journey could be made without once taking
the canoe out of the water, except to de-
scend with safety a few rough stretches on
the western outlet of the lake.
The Gapes in Chickens. Dr. II. D. Walk-
er has contributed to the Bulletin of the
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences the re-
sult of the special investigations which he
has made to determine the origin of the
gape-worm (Syngamus trachealis) of fowls,
lie believes it to be a parasite of the earth-
worm (Lumbricus terrestris). Taking the
opportunity of a prevalence of the gapes
among the chickens, in 1883, and acting un-
der the advice of Dr. Leidy, he sought for
the Syngamus in the embryonic or larval
condition, in some intermediate part. This
might, he thought, be the earth-worm, the
sow- bug ( Oniscus asellus), or the garden-slug,
all of which were found around the infected
coops ; while the coops that suffered most
were near a bare spot of ground which was
full of earth-worms. Parasites were found
in the earth-worms and in the slugs. The
three animals were fed separately to differ-
