zo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
thousand years ; but for all that there may have been variations of
quite as much as five or ten per cent, as we may judge from consider-
ing that the intensity of the solar radiation to the earth is six and a
half per cent greater in January than in July ; and neither at the
equator nor in the northern or southern hemispheres has this difference
been discovered by experience or general observation of any kind.
But as for the mere age of the sun, irrespective of the question of
uniformity, we have proof of something vastly more than three thou-
sand years in geological history, with its irrefragable evidence of con-
tinuity of life on the earth in time past for tens of thousands, and
probably for millions of years.
Here, then, we have a splendid subject for contemplation and re-
search in natural philosophy, or physics, the science of dead matter.
The sun, a mere piece of matter of the moderate dimensions which Ave
know it to have, bounded all round by cold ether, has been doing
work at the rate of four hundred and seventy-six thousand million
million million horse-power for three thousand years and at possibly
more, and certainly not much less, than that for a few million years.
How is this to be explained ? Natural philosophy can not evade the
question, and no physicist who is not engaged in trying to answer it
can have any other justification than that his whole working time is
occupied with work on some other subject or subjects of his province
by which he has more hope of being able to advance science.
I suppose I may assume that every person present knows as an
established result of scientific inquiry that the sun is not a burning
fire, and is merely a fluid mass cooling, with some little accession of
fresh energy by meteors occasionally falling in, of very small account
in comparison with the whole energy of heat which he gives out from
year to year. You are also perfectly familiar with Helmholtzs form
of the meteoric theory, and accept it as having the highest degree of
scientific probability that can be assigned to any assumption regarding
actions of prehistoric times. You understand, then, that the essential
principle of the explanation is this : at some period of time, long past,
the suns initial heat was generated by the collision of pieces of matter
gravitationally attracted together from distant space to build up his
present mass ; and shrinkage due to cooling gives, through the work
done by the mutual gravitation of all parts of the shrinking mass,
the vast thermal capacity in virtue of which the cooling has been, and
continues to be, so slow. I assume that you have not been misled by
any of your teachers who may have told you, or by any of your books
in which you may have read, that the sun is becoming hotter because
a gaseous mass, shrinking because it is becoming colder, becomes hotter
because it shrinks.
An essential detail of Helmholtzs theory of solar heat is that the
sun must be fluid, because even though given at any moment hot
enough from the surface to any depth, however great, inward, to be
