2 86
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ent chicks. No significant effect followed the
feeding with slugs or sow-bugs, but the chicks
fed with earth-worms developed symptoms
of gapes. Experiments were made in artifi-
cial culture, and are described in the authors
paper. For prevention of gapes, Dr. Walk-
er recommends keeping the chickens away
from the ground by putting them on floors,
and destroying the earth-worm and its para-
site by some preparation fatal to both, such
as common salt ; asafcetida and garlic, which
have been relied upon to cure or prevent
gapes, had no effect upon the Sgngamus.
Dr. Bickertons Experiments in Colcr-
Blindness. T. H. Bickerton, of the Koyal
Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, has re-
corded the results of his personal examina-
tions of 5,087 subjects, during five years,
for color-blindness. Holmgrens tests were
used. Of 3,087 men and boys tested, 179
failed at the first test (a very pale, pure
green), either by omitting green, or by put-
ting in some other color. Of these, 74
passed successfully the remaining tests, and
were considered to have but a very slight
chromatic defect, which might be disregard-
ed. Rejecting these, there were 105 cases
of color-blindness, or 3 - 40 per cent of the
whole number. Of 1,841 women and girls
examined, 3 only, or - 162 per cent, were to
a greater or less extent affected, and of
these one so slightly affected that it was
cast out, leaving 2 pronounced cases, or
0108 per cent. Sixty-four male lunatics
afforded 1 complete and 1 incomplete case,
while 95 female lunatics were all correct.
The social status of these and other persons
examined varied from the lowest to the
highest, and the ages ranged from five
years upward. A large majority of them
were under twenty-one. Besides those in-
cluded under the head of very slightly col-
or-blind, there were others whose color-per-
ception was feeble. Among the lower social
grades, as represented by the children in
orphanages and reformatories, a consider-
able number made mistakes in the exami-
nations, and these errors were made not
only by those of dullish intellects, but also
by those who, according to their mistresses,
were sharp girls. Cases of this kind were
retested after some months tuition in colors,
and in most instances, where ignorance was
suspected, the second trial proved the cor-
rectness of that conclusion ; but there were
others who, although they fulfilled the test,
did it with the utmost difficulty. Of the
105 cases of color-blindness, Dr. Bickerton
further remarks : Not one so affected was
aware of the defect, and a number of them
do not believe it to this day. It may seem
curious that people who can not distinguish
as different colors red, green, and brown,
and in some few cases blue and yellow also,
do not themselves discover their peculiarity
in their vision for colors. Yet, strange as
it may be, so it is, and you will find it ex-
ceptional for a color-blind to realize in tho
first instance the defect himself.
Effect of Climatic Changes on Species.
Any theory of the distribution of species, to
be acceptable, must take account of the great
gaps which appear in the extension of many
kinds. Mr. Edward Forbes and many other
modern botanists believe that the question
is one of changes of climate ; or that the
climatic variations of the past are reflected
in the fauna and flora of the present. Their
views are partially confirmed by the obser-
vations which Professor A. Blytt, of the
University of Christiania, has made of the
climatological relations and the distribution
of plants in Norway. Nearly all the clima-
tological lines there run more or less in the
shape of the coast, so that the climates are
ranged in bands, the changes being observed
as one goes from the interior toward the
sea, or vice versa. In keeping with the
same are the variations of the flora. The
plants may be divided into groups, wherein
the species belonging to the same group
have a somewhat similar extension, while
each of the groups is confined to special
climatological conditions, and is found only
in those parts where the conditions corre-
sponding with its nature prevail. The flora
is generally monotonous ; but there are cer-
tain places dependent partly, perhaps, on
the character of the soil, but as much upon
exposure to the sun and protection from
the changeableness of the coast climate,
where a rich vegetation may be found.
The flora is destitute of peculiarly charac-
teristic species, because it has come to the
country by immigration after the Glacial
period, from other countries which were
