NOTES.
287
free from ice at that time. This immigra-
tion must have taken place during repeated
changes of climate. After several thou-
sands of years with a severer climate that
favored the immigration and extension of
northern and eastern species, other thou-
sands of years followed with a milder cli-
mate. During this period fresh immigrants
came from the south and southwest, com-
pelling the older flora to retreat. In this
manner the climate must have changed sev-
eral times since the Glacial age, and the
distribution of the plants must have changed
in accordance therewith. The periods of
variation are reflected in the present flora,
and it is the former which have led to the
great gaps in the extension of coast as well
as inland plants. The sunny screes, the
slate districts, and the moist coast tracts,
are asylums where the different floras have
found refuge. In the intermediate parts
they have been dislodged by the new-comers.
But certain species, being indifferent to the
variations, extended constantly, at the ex-
pense of others, and this is the reason of
the Norwegian flora being so monotonous.
Artificial Digestion. 0. Petersen, of St.
Petersburg, has made experiments to ascer-
tain the influence of certain medicines on
digestion. The problem he set himself to
determine was the time required to digest
from 20 to 40 grammes of dried albumen
by the aid of 450 centigrammes of a spe-
cially prepared artificial gastric fluid. Al-
cohol in the proportion of five per cent
did not hinder digestion, but the process
was retarded as the percentage rose, and
stopped at ten per cent of alcohol. Anti-
pyrin, in light doses, was without influence,
but in larger quantities slightly retarded the
action. One or two grammes of bromide or
iodide of potassium hindered the process a
little. The organic preparations of iron
scarcely affected the time required for the
digestion, while reduc d iron and the inor-
ganic salts slowed the action, as did also
magnesium and sodium sulphates, even in
moderate doses. A gramme-dose of chloral
hydrate had no slowing effect, though a
marked retardation occurred with a dose of
a gramme and a half. Chloride of sodium
did not retard digestion, even when em-
ployed in large doses.
NOTES.
A series of charts, showing the surface
temperatures of the Atlantic coast waters,
from Maine to Florida, is under preparation
by the United States Fish Commission, as-
sisted by the Lighthouse Board and Signal
Service. Observations, covering five years
in time, have thus far been made at twenty-
four lighthouse-stations. The temperatures
at the several stations are shown for each
year by ten-day means, and in such a man-
ner as to give the isothermal relations of
the stations.
It is said, on the authority of an Ameri-
can railway engineer, that low tempera-
tures do not decrease the strength of rails,
as is commonly supposed, although it is
true that accidents are more likely to occur
from broken rails in cold weather. This is
because, when the ground is frozen hard, it
loses its elasticity. Nevertheless, something
must yield when the train rune over the
road; it is the ground that yields in un-
frozen weather; but during a freeze the
ground will not yield, and the rail, as being
the weakest part of the structure, has to
suffer the consequences.
Mr. Blanford, in his report on the Ad-
ministration of the Meteorological Depart-
ment of India for 1885-86, describes the
steps which have been taken in the penin-
sula to discover to what extent forests influ-
ence the rainfall. A few observatories have
been established in the Ajmcre forests, and
the results so far have been to show slightly
but appreciably higher rainfall in the for-
ests than without. It is admitted that more
careful inquiry must be made before any defi-
nite conclusions can be drawn. Mr. Blan-
ford points out that M. Woeikoff, in a paper
on the subject with special reference to In-
dia, essentially supports the view, which he
himself regards as probable.
The Paris Academy of Medicine has been
discussing the bad results of mental strain
on young persons. A particularly hard
bearing of the process was shown upon
French girls, twelve thousand of whom are
competing for diplomas entitling them to
two thousand appointments in government
schools.
Professor Sargent, Director of the Ar-
nold Arboretum, of Harvard College, esti-
mates that five foreign trees are planted in
New England to one native. Yet, of all
foreign trees introduced into America, the
willow alone, he thinks, has qualities not
possessed in a greater degree by some na-
tive. The European oak, and the Scotch,
Austrian, and Corsican pines all die at about
the time when they should be at their prime,
and the Norway spruce, at a corresponding
age, is decrepit and unsightly.
