288
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Oyster-cultcrk is carried on actively and
with yearly increasing returns at Arcachon
and Auray in France. Fifteen thousand of
the 37,500 acres of the bay of Arcachon are
now covered with oyster-beds, which yield
300,000,000 oysters a year. The oyster-beds
at Auray, on the coast of Brittany, are
less important than those of Arcachon, but
they furnished 70,000,000 oysters in 1885.
The Hon. Carroll D. Wright has reported
upon convict-labor that the system of hand-
labor under public account is the best. The
facts show that the contract system is ob-
jectionable though it is the most profitable
one, and sustain the complaints that are made
against it. Mr. Wright believes that none of
the disadvantages arising under the contract
system or the piece-price modification of it
could be urged against the plan he recom-
mends, and the adoption of it would reduce
the effects of convict-labor on rates of wages
to a minimum.
According to a report from the Inter-
nal Revenue Office, there are in the United
States 37 oleomargarine-factories, and 266
wholesale and 3,537 retail dealers in that
product who paid special taxes in Novem-
ber, December, January, and February last.
During the same months, 12,645,740 pounds
of oleomargarine were manufactured, and
152,797 pounds were exported.
The jubilee of Professor Otto Struve was
recently celebrated at the Pulkova Observ-
atory, and was honored by the attendance
of many delegates from learned societies
and scientific institutions.
It is related, as among the incidents of
the Charleston earthquake, that a young
girl who had lost her power of speech from
infancy, through severe illness, found it
suddenly restored in the terror of the shock.
Her first use of the recovered faculty was
to scream for fear ; but, finding she was able
to scream, it took but a step to discover that
she could also frame words.
If the stories that are told are true, the
negroes at Charleston showed during the
earthquake how the power of old habits
would cling to them, notwithstanding the
great changes that have taken place in their
condition. After having been trained for
twenty years in the cultivation of self-reli-
ance and the recognition of their parity
with the whites, it is said that, when the
earthquake came, next to their dependence
on the Deity was conspicuous the trust they
put in the white people ; and, whenever they
caught sight of a white face in the darkness
and confusion, they would turn to it as to
that of an angel.
The tenth annual meeting of the Ameri-
can Society of Microscopists will be held in
Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, beginning August
30th.
President Harrington, of the Ottawa
Field Naturalists Club, has suggested a
test of what we really know about objects
with which we imagine ourselves well ac-
quainted. Sit down with paper and pen,
he says, and try how much you can write
about some species with which you are fa-
miliar, and you will probably be surprised
to find how little there is regarding it of
which you are entirely certain. Unless your
memory for details is much better than mine,
I fear your history will be far from exhaust-
ive. It is easy to believe that you are fully
acquainted with a certain form, that you
know where and when it appears, and its
manner of life and reproduction, but when
you attempt to record these, doubts begin
to flit through your mind, and your knowl-
edge seems less assured.
We noticed some months ago that Cap-
tain Willard Glazier claimed that he had
discovered in 1881 the true source of the
Mississippi River in a lake, hitherto unex-
plored, a short distance above Itasca Lake,
to which he gave his own name. The va-
lidity of the discovery was disputed ; the
Minnesota Historical Society took it up for
examination ; and its report by the Hon.
James II. Baker demonstrates that Captain
Glaziers claim is of the most fraudulent
character. The lake, the true name of
which is Elk Lake, is not new, but was
known to Schoolcraft and Nicollet, was
marked on their maps, and has been marked
upon every map of respectable pretensions
since 1832. Mr. Henry D. Harrowcr has
also established the same facts in a pam-
phlet published by Ivisou, LTakeman Co.,
in which he shows by parallel columns that
Captain Glazier stole a considerable part of
his narrative bodily from Schoolcraft. The
reports afford a convincing exposure of an
attempted imposture, which was as silly as
it was impudent.
It has been observed in Ottawa, Canada,
that the introduction of the electric light in
street illumination has facilitated the col-
lection of entomological specimens, particu-
larly of rare species, as insects of all kinds
are attracted to the lamps in large numbers.
OBITUARY NOTES.
Dr. Grothe, of the Polytcchnical School
at Delft, died on the 10th of February, in
the eighty-first year of his age.
M. Tiiollon, astronomer at the obser-
vatory in Nice, died April 8th, after a long
illness, at the age of fifty years. His name
was associated with many important discov-
eries in spectroscopy, the most notable of
which, perhaps, was that of the means of
distinguishing between telluric and solar
rays.
