290 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
One of the leading economists and financiers of France, M. Leroy
Beaulieu, claims that the suffering has been greatest in his country,
humiliated in war, shorn of her territory, and paying the maximum of
taxation ; but not a few stand ready to contest that claim in behalf of
the United States, rejoicing in the maintenance of her national strength
and dominion, and richer than ever in national resources.
Commenting upon the phenomena of the industrial depression sub-
sequent to the early months of 1882, the Director of the United States
National Bureau of Labor, in his report for 1886, considers the nations
involved, in respect to their relations to each other and to severity of
experience, to stand in the following order : Great Britain, the United
States, Germany, France, Belgium. The investigations of the director
also indicated a conclusion (of the greatest importance in the considera-
tion of causes) ; namely, that the maximum of economic disturbance
has been experienced in those countries in which the employment of
machinery, the efficiency of labor, the cost and the standard of living,
and the extent of popular education are the greatest ; and the minimum
in countries, like Austria, Italy, China, Mexico, South America, etc.,
where the opposite conditions prevail. These conclusions, which are
concurred in by nearly all other investigators, apply, however, more
especially to the years prior to 1883, as since then depression has
manifested itself with marked intensity in such countries as Russia,
Japan, Zanzibar, Uruguay, and Roumania.
The business of retail distribution generally owing, probably, to
the extreme cheapness of commodities does not, moreover, appear to
have been less profitable than usual during the so-called period of de-
pression ; in contradistinction to the business of production, which has
been generally unprofitable.
It is also universally admitted that the years immediately preced-
ent to 1873 i. e., from 1869 to 1872 constituted a period of most
extraordinary and almost universal inflation of prices, credits, and
business ; which, in turn, has been attributed to a variety or sequence
of influences ; such as excessive speculation ; excessive and injudicious
construction of railroads in the United States, Central Europe, and
Russia (1867-73) ; the opening of the Suez Canal (1869) ; the Franco-
German War (1870-71) ; and the payment of the enormous war in-
demnity of fifty-five hundred million francs (eleven hundred million
dollars) which Germany exacted from France (1871-73). The con-
been set on foot, and the suspension of many of the public works has tended to further
reduce the commercial prosperity of the country. Consumption has been upon the lowest
possible scale, retrenchment universal, and want of employment, and even of food, among
the laboring-classes, a grave public difficulty. United States Consul Siler, Report to
State Department, 1885.
January, 1885. The price of mackerel in 1884 (Boston) was lower than at any time
since 1S49 ; and, in the case of codfish, the lowest since 1838.
The price obtainable for sugar at Barbadocs entails a loss to the producer in excess
of one pound per ton Barbadces Agricultural Reporter, February, 1887.
