THE SUNS HEAT. zi
brilliantly incandescent, the conduction of heat from within through
solid matter of even the highest conducting quality known to us would
not suffice to maintain the incandescence of the surface for more than
a few hours, after which all would be darkness. Observation confirms
this conclusion so far as the outward appearance of the sun is con-
cerned, but does not suffice to disprove the idea which prevailed till
thirty or forty years ago that the sun is a solid nucleus inclosed in a
sheet of violently agitated flame. In reality the matter of the outer
shell of the sun, from which the heat is radiated outward, must in
cooling become denser, and so becoming unstable in its high position,
must fall down, and hotter fluid from within must rush up to take its
place. The tremendous currents thus continually produced in this
great mass of flaming fluid constitute the province of the newly de-
veloped science of solar physics, which with its marvelous instrument
of research the spectroscope is yearly and daily giving us more and
more knowledge of the actual motions of the different ingredients,
and of the splendid and all-important resulting phenomena.
Now, to form some idea of the amount of the heat which is being
continually carried up to the suns surface and radiated out into space,
and of the dynamical relations between it and the solar gravitation,
let us first divide that prodigious number (476 XlO 21 ) of horse-power
by the number (6 # 1 X 10 18 ) of square metres in the suns surface, and
we find 78,000 horse-power as the mechanical value of the radiation
per square metre. Imagine, then, the engines of eight ironclads ap-
plied to do all their available work of, say, 10,000 horse-power each,
in perpetuity driving one small paddle in a fluid contained in a square
metre vat. The same heat will be given out from the square metre
surface of the fluid as is given out from every square metre of the
suns surface.
But now to pass from a practically impossible combination of en-
gines and a physically impossible paddle and fluid and containing ves-
sel, toward a more practical combination of matter for producing the
same effect : still keep the ideal vat and paddle and fluid, but place
the vat on the surface of a cool, solid, homogeneous globe of the same
size (-697X10 9 metres radius) as the sun, and of density (1*4) equal to
the suns density. Instead of using steam-power, let the paddle be
driven by a weight descending in a pit excavated below the vat. As
the simplest possible mechanism, take a long vertical shaft, with the
paddle mounted on the top of it so as to turn horizontally. Let the
weight be a nut working on a screw-thread on the vertical shaft, with
guides to prevent the nut from turning the screw and the guides be-
ing all absolutely frictionless. Let the pit be a metre square at its
upper end, and let it be excavated quite down to the suns center,
everywhere of square horizontal section, and tapering uniformly to a
point at the center. Let the weight be simply the excavated matter
of the suns mass, with merely a little clearance space between it and
