THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 297
tarily out of employment in that year than in any previous year. Report for
April, 1887.
The following extracts from published statements and opinions
are more general in their nature, but not less instructive :
1876. Our country is now passing through a period of unusual depression,
both in its industries and its business. The present depressed condition of busi-
ness and of financial affairs exists over all countries having a high civilization.
Facts and Observations addressed to the Committee on Finance of the Mutual
Life- Insurance Company of New York, July, 1876. Printed for the Private
Convenience of the Trustees.
1870. The inquiry has been sufficiently broad to enable them (the committee),
to point out with a considerable degree of accuracy the causes which have im-
mediately operated to produce the present depression in the commerce of the
country, and in some branches of its manufacturing and mining industries.
These causes are quite beyond legislative control in this country. Report of
Select Committee of the House of Commons, Dominion of Canada, 1876.
1877. Hard times ! For four years this sober pass-word has gained in gravity
of import. For a time it was panic; but suppositions of speedy recovery have
given place to a conviction of underlying facts that these hard times are more
than a panic; that the existing depression of trade and dearth of employment
are not, in popular apprehension, exaggerated, but are the serious results of
causes more permanent in their nature than is generally considered. Bard
Times, oy Franklin W. Smith, Boston, 1877, James R. Osgood Co.
Congress of the United States, House of Eepkesentatives, June 17, 1878.
1S78. Mr. Thompson submitted the following resolution, which was agreed to :
Whereas, labor and the productive interests of the country are greatly
depressed, and suffering severely from causes not yet fully understood, etc. :
Therefore,
Resolved, That a committee of seven members of this House be appointed,
whose duty it shall be to inquire into and ascertain the causes of general business
depression, etc., and report at the next session.
1878. Commercial depression is the universal cry a commercial depression
probably unprecedented in duration in the annals of trade, except under the
disturbing action of prolonged war. . . . Ample evidence abounds on all sides
to show its extent and severity in England. Have other countries bowed their
heads in suffering under the commercial depression ? Let America be the first
to speak. In 1873 she experienced a shock of the most formidable kind. She
has not recovered from the shock at this very hour. Let us visit Germany
Germany the conqueror in a great war, and the exactor of an unheard-of in-
demnity. What do we find in that country ? Worse commercial weather at
this hour than in any other. Nowhere are louder complaints uttered of the
stagnation of trade. Austria and Hungary repeat the cry, but in a somewhat
lower voice. And so we come round to France, the people whose well-being
has been so visited with the most violent assaults. Her losses and sufferings
have surpassed those endured by any other nation. Yet the deep, heavy press-
ure of her commercial paralysis has weighed upon her the least oppressive of
all. Such a depression, spread over so many countries, inflicting such continu-
ous distress, and lasting for so long a period of time, the history of trade has
probably never before exhibited. Bonamt Pkice, Contemporary Review, 1878.
