298 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
1879. The prevailing depression in business from which this country has
suffered for six years, and from which nearly every country in Europe is suffer-
ing still, has probably furnished support to a greater number of conflicting
economical theories than any other occurrence of ancient or modern times. . . .
The result, we need hardly say, has not been to raise the reputation of political
economy as a science. In fact, it has never seemed so little of a science as
during the past five years, owing to the extraordinary array of proof and illus-
tration which the holders of the most widely divergent views have been able to
produce. The Nation {New York), May, 1879.
1S79. We have just passed through a period of depression, of which, though
it came in perfect agreement with all past experiences, was complicated by such
an exceptional conglomeration of untoward circumstances, and protracted to
such a weary length, that men seemed to lose faith in the revival which was
almost certain to come sooner or later, and began to ask whether the commer-
cial supremacy of this country was not permanently undermined. And now,
with the new decade, the revival is really here. The Recent Repression of
Trade, being the Oxford Cobden Prize Essay for 1S79, ly Walter E. Smith,
London, Trubner Co., 1880.
1881. The industrial depression is generally thought to have commenced in
the closing months of 1874, and it increased in intensity throughout 1876 and
1877. Professor Henry Fawoett, Free Trade and Protection, 1 London, 1881.
1885. The present depression of trade is remarkable, not so much for its
intensity or for its extent in both of which respects it has been equaled or
surpassed on previous occasions but for its persistence during the long period
of eleven years. The industrial depression is generally thought to have com-
menced in the closing months of 1874 ; and, during every succeeding year, it
has continued to be felt with more or less severity, and its remarkable persist-
ence has been commented on by politicians and public writers. Usually, a
period of depression is quickly followed by one of comparative prosperity.
Such a reaction has been again and again predicted in this case, but, up to the
present time, there are no satisfactory indications that the evil days are passing
away. It is evident, therefore, that we are suffering in an altogether excep-
tional manner ; that the disease of the social organism is due to causes which
have not been in action on former occasions, and that the remedial agencies
which have been effective on former occasions have now failed us. Bad Times,
an Essay on the Present Repression of Trade, by Alfred Russel Wallace, London,
October, 1885.
The following are notable extracts from the testimony presented
to the Royal (British) Commission, appointed August, 1885, to in-
quire into the depression of trade and industry, and embodied in their
reports submitted to Parliament in 1885-86 :
1885. At the present time, a general depression of trade and industry ia
stated to exist throughout Italy. While, however, depression is general, it does
not act uniformly on all industries. Testimony of Ellis Colnaghi, Rer Majestys
Consul- General at Florence, October 8, 1885.
The depression began full ten years ago, and still continues. Testimony of
the Linen Merchants 1 Association of Relfast, Ireland, November, 1885.
The origin of the depression from which we suffer, and which is at the low-
est point yet reached, seems to be a reaction from the coal-famine period of
1872-74, and which was perhaps due to the inflation consequent on the Franco-
