THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1878. 299
German War in 1870. The progress of depression has been irregular, but with
a persistent downward tendency since 1874. The present tendency is still down-
ward. Testimony of the North of England Iron Manufacturers Association,
September, 1S85.
The depression has been increasing in intensity during the last four years.
It was probably never greater than at present at this season of the year. Testi-
mony of the British Paper-Makers Association, September, 1S85.
Trade began to be depressed in 1876, and has continued so till the year
1883, with intermittent spurts of improvement But from the end of 1883 the
depression has become increasingly acute. Testimony of North Staffordshire
Chamber of Commerce, October 21, 1885.
As a proof of the deplorable state this trade [woolen-yarn spinning, Hud-
dersfield, England] has been in for the last ten or fifteen years, we most respect-
fully beg to inform you, we hold the list of fifty firms of spinners who have been
ruined and brought into the bankruptcy court during that period. Another
proof of the very serious state of trade here is to be found in the depreciated
value of carding and spinning machinery. Good machines, and for all practical
purposes equal to new, if brought into the market will only realize some thirty
or forty per cent of their cost price. Mill property is also in a similar po-
sition. Report of the Huddersfield {England) Chamber of Commerce, October,
1885.
1886. Out of the total number of establishments, such as factories, mines,
etc., existing in the country [the United States], about eight per cent were abso-
lutely idle during the year ending July 1, 1885, and perhaps five per cent more
were idle a part of such time; or, for a just estimate, seven and a half per cent
of the whole number of such establishments were idle, or equivalent to idle,
during the year named. . . . Making allowance for the persons engaged in other
occupations, 998,839 constituted the best estimate of the possibly unemployed
in the United States during the year ending July 1, 1885 (many of the unem-
ployed, those who under prosperous times would be fully employed, and who
during the time mentioned were seeking employment), that it has been possible
for the Bureau to make. ... A million people out of employment, crippling all
dependent upon them, means a loss to the consumptive power of the country of
at least $1,000,000 per day, or a crippling of the trade of the country of over
$300,000,000 per annum. Report on Industrial Depression, United States Bureau
of Labor, 1886.
1886. It may be remembered that about twelve months ago there were evi-
dences of an improved feeling in the English iron-trade. This was caused by
the news of improvement in America; but this better feeling soon passed away,
and was succeeded by even a deeper depression and lower prices. . . . On exam-
ining the Board of Trade returns, it is disappointing to find that any improve-
ment in our exports is confined almost exclusively to the United States, and that
many of our principal customers have been taking less than formerly. This,
however, may be explained by the depression which has hung over other coun-
tries in common with our own. London Statist, November, 1886.
1886. The present crisis has a much more general character than any of the
crises which have preceded it; because it is a part of an abrupt transformation
in the production and circulation of the whole world. For the same reason, it
is destined to last longer. M. Leroy Beattlietj, Revue des Deux Mondes, 1886.
1887. It is pretty well known that the late revival in the English iron-trade
wa9 largely, if not exclusively, due to an increased demand from the United
