THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 301
have been more or less influential ; and among such causes the follow-
ing are generally regarded as having been especially potential : Over-
production; the scarcity and appreciation of gold, or the depre-
ciation of silver, through its demonetization ; restrictions of the free
course of commerce through protective tariffs on the one hand, and
excessive and unnatural competition occasioned by excessive foreign
imports contingent on the absence of fair trade or protection on the
other ; heavy national losses, occasioned by destructive wars, especially
the Franco-Prussian War ; the continuation of excessive war expendi-
tures ; the failure of crops ; the unproductiveness of foreign loans or
investments ; excessive speculation and reaction from great inflations;
strikes and interruption of production consequent on trades-unions
and other organizations of labor ; the concentration of capital in few
hands, and a consequent antagonizing influence to the equitable dif-
fusion of wealth ; excessive expenditures for alcoholic beverages,
and a general improvidence of the working-classes. In the investi-
gations undertaken by committees of Congress in the United States,
the causes assigned by the various witnesses who testified before them
were comprised under no less than one hundred and eighty heads ;
and an almost equal diversity of opinion was manifested by the wit-
nesses who appeared before the Royal (British) Commission.* The
special causes to which a majority of the Commission itself attached
any great degree of importance, stated in the order presented by them,
are as follows : 1. Changes in the distribution of wealth i. e., in
Great Britain ; 2. Natural tendency to diminution in the rate of
profit consequent on the progressive accumulation of capital ; 3. Over-
production; 4. Impairment of agricultural industry consequent on bad
seasons, and the competition of the products of other soils which can
be cultivated under more favorable conditions ; 5. Foreign tariffs and
bounties and the restrictive commercial policies of foreign countries ;
6. The working of the British Limited Liability Act. In addition to
these special causes, others of a general character were mentioned ;
such as the more limited possibilities of new sources of demand
throughout the world, and the larger amount of capital seeking em-
ployment ; the serious fall in prices ; the appreciation of the
standard of value so far as connected with the fall of prices and
foreign competition. A respectable minority of the commission also
included, in the list of principal causes, the effect of British legislation,
regulating the hours and conditions of labor on the cost of production
* The Birmingham Chamber of Commerce attributed it in great part to German and
Belgian competition, to foreign import duties on home-manufactured goods exported
abroad, and exorbitant railway rates ; the Hartlepool Chamber to foreign competition ;
Manchester, the same ; Leeds, to foreign tariffs ; Liverpool, to a loss in a once large
re-export trade in cotton ; Wolverhampton, to changes in the hours of labor resulting
from the operation of the Factory, Workshop, and Education Acts, and the action of the
various trades-unions.
