3 02 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as compared with other countries ; and the discriminations given by
British railways to foreign producers in the conveyance of goods.
It would seem as if one could not acquaint himself to any consid-
erable extent with the great body of literature on this subject of the
recent depression of trade, without becoming impressed with the tend-
ency of many writers and investigators of repute, and of most of the
persons who have given testimony before the commissions of different
countries, to greatly magnify the influence of purely local causes.
The real and deep-seated cause of all our distress, says the Oxford
Prize Essay for 1879, is this : the whole world has been consuming
more than it has produced, and is consequently in a state of impover-
ishment, and can not buy our wares.
Nearly all British writers dwell upon the immense losses to British
farming capital, contingent upon deficient crops since 1875, and the
decline in the value and use of arable land in the United Kingdom,
and concurrent decline in the price of agricultural produce, due to
foreign competitive supplies, as prime factors in accounting for trade
depression ; while, throughout much of the testimony given before the
British Commission by British manufacturers and merchants, the in-
jurious influence of hostile foreign tariffs on the exports of British
manufactures, and the competition of foreign manufactures in the
British home market, are continually referred to as having been espe-
cially productive of industrial disturbance. In France, the principal
assigned causes are, excessive speculation prior to 1878, followed by
bad crops ; the great falling off in the production of wine through the
destruction of vineyards by the phylloxera ; a serious depression of
the silk-trade industry ; the disappearance of sardines and other fish
from the coast of Brittany ; excessive taxation ; excessive increase in
manufactured products ; and restricted markets due to the competition
of foreign nations paying less wages. In Italy a succession of bad
crops, a disease among the silk-worms, and a stagnation of the silk
industry, are prominently cited ; while in Denmark, bad harvests, a
disturbed state of internal politics, an alteration in the metallism of
the country in 1873, and general over-production of manufactured
products, are popularly assigned as sufficient causes.
Excessive taxation upon trade and industry, as a leading cause of
trade depression, has also found strong advocacy, and the evidence
brought forward is certainly impressive. The present annual burden of
taxation in Europe for military purposes at the present time is estimated
at about 170,000,000 (S850,000,000). In France, the complaints as
to the pressure of taxation on industry are universal. The imperial
taxation in 1884 was reported at 120,000,000 ($600,000,000) on a
population of 37,000,000. Local taxation in France is also very heavy,
the octroi duties for Paris alone for the year 1884 having amounted
to 139,000,000 francs ($27,800,000), in addition to which were other
heavy municipal taxes, as, for example, on carriages, horses, cabs, dogs,
