THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 303
market-stalls, funerals, clubs, canals, the keeping of shops, and other
commodities and occupations. Testimony of J. A. Croice, British
Commission.
In Italy, according to the British consul-general at Florence (Brit-
ish Commission), the income-tax in 1884 was above thirteen per cent, and
the land-tax in some instances as high as twenty-five per cent upon the
gross rental. These are independent of local taxation, included in which
is the octroi, which is also described as very onerous, and, not being
confined to articles of food only, have raised a quantity of small inter-
nal barriers, which, in a minor degree, replace the customs barriers of
the several small states into which the country was formerly divided.
In respect to Great Britain, the British Commission, as the result
of their investigations into this matter, says : Of the fact of the in-
crease, especially of local taxation, there is no doubt. At the same
time it will probably be found that, relatively to the population and
wealth of the country, the burden of taxation is now far lighter than
in any previous periods.
The published opinions of certain persons of note on the subject
are also worthy of attention. Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace, in his book
entitled Bad Times, London, 1885, expresses the opinion that among
the most efficient causes for the current depression of trade are wars
and excessive armaments, loans to despots or for war purposes, and the
accumulation of vast wealth by individuals.
Dr. Wirth, of Vienna, finds a like explanation in the excessive con-
version, or rather perversion, of private wealth for public purposes.
Dr. Engel, of Berlin, regards the millions wasted in war by France
and Germany, from 1870 to 1871, and continued and prospective ex-
penditures for like purposes, as culminating causes of almost uni-
versal business calamities ; while, in the opinion of Professor Thorold
Rogers, the scarcity and consequent dearness of gold have been the
factors of chief importance.
But side by side with all the theories that the depression has
been occasioned by the destruction or non-production of vast amounts
of property by wars, bad harvests, strikes, loss of capital by employ-
ment in worthless enterprises, the conversion of an undue amount of
circulating capital into fixed capital, and extravagant consumption,
should be placed the facts, that statistics not only fail to reveal the
existence of any great degree of scarcity anywhere, but, on the con-
trary, prove that those countries in which depression has been and is
most severely felt are the very ones in which desirable commodities
of every description railroads, ships, houses, live-stock, food, cloth-
ing, fuel, and luxuries have year by year been accumulating with the
greatest rapidity, and offered for use or consumption at rates unpre-
cedented for cheapness. If lack of capital, furthermore, by destruc-
tion or perversion had been the cause, the rate of profit on the use
of capital would have been higher ; but the fact is, that the rate of
