22 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the four sides of the pit, and a kilometre or so cut off the lower pointed
end to allow space for its descent. The mass of this weight is 326 X
10 6 tons. Its heaviness, three quarters of the heaviness of an equal
mass at the suns surface, is 244 XlO 6 tons solar surface-heaviness.
Now a horse-power is 270 metre-tons, terrestrial surface heaviness, per
hour ; or ten metre-tons, solar surface-heaviness, per hour. To do
78,000 horse-power, or 780,000 metre-tons, solar surface-heaviness, per
hour, our weight must therefore descend at the rate of one metre in
313 hours, or about twenty-eight metres per year.
To advance another step, still through impracticable mechanism,
toward the practical method by which the suns heat is produced, let
the thread of the screw be of uniformly decreasing steepness from the
surface downward, so that the velocity of the weight, as it is allowed
to descend by the turning of the screw, shall be in simple proportion
to distance from the suns center. This will involve a uniform con-
densation of the material of the weight ; but a condensation so ex-
ceedingly small in the course even of tens of thousands of years, that,
whatever be the supposed character, metal or stone, of the weight,
the elastic reaction against the condensation will be utterly imper-
ceptible in comparison with the gravitational forces with which we
are concerned. The work done per metre of descent of the top end of
the weight will be just four fifths of what it was when the thread of
the screw was uniform. Thus, to do the 78,000 horse-power of work,
the top end of the weight must descend at the rate of thirty-five me-
tres per year : or seventy kilometres, which is one one hundredth per
cent (tttoott) f the suns radius, per two thousand years.
Now let the whole surface of our cool solid sun be divided into
squares, for example, as nearly as may be, of one square metre area
each, and let the whole mass of the sun be divided into long, inverted
pyramids or pointed rods, each 700,000 kilometres long, with their
points meeting at the center. Let each be mounted on a screw, as
already described for the long tapering weight which we first con-
sidered ; and let the paddle at the top end of each screw-shaft revolve
in a fluid, not now confined to a vat, but covering the whole surface
of the sun to a depth of a few metres or kilometres. Arrange the vis-
cosity of the fluid and the size of each paddle so as to let the paddle
turn just so fast as to allow the top end of each pointed rod to descend
at the rate of thirty-five metres per year. The whole fluid will, by
the work which the paddles do in it, be made incandescent, and it will
give out heat and light to just about the same amount as is actually
done by the sun. If the fluid be a few thousand kilometres deep over
the paddles, it would be impossible, by any of the appliances of solar
physics, to see the difference between our model mechanical sun and
the true sun.
Now, to do away with the last vestige of impracticable mechanism,
in which the heavinesses of all parts of each long rod are supported
