3 o 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
profit on even the most promising kinds of capital during recent years
has been everywhere exceptionally low.
Another notable tendency among investigators is to assign to
clearly secondary causes or results, positions of primary importance.
Thus (general) over-production,* or an amount of production of com-
modities in excess of demand at remunerative prices, finds greater favor
as an agency of current economic disturbance than any other. But
surely all nations and people could not, with one accord and almost
concurrently, have entered upon a course of unprofitable production
without being impelled by an agency so universal and so irresistible
as to almost become invested with the character of a natural law ;
and hence over-production obviously, in any broad inquiry, must be
accepted as a result rather than a cause. And so, also, in respect
to metallism and the enactment of laws restrictive of commerce ;
for no one can seriously suppose that silver has been demonetized or
tariffs enacted inadvertently, or at the whim and caprice of individuals,
with a view of occasioning either domestic or international economic
disturbances ; but, on the contrary, the only reasonable supposition is,
that antecedent conditions or agencies have prompted to action in
both cases, by inducing a belief that measures of the kind specified
were in the nature of safeguards against threatened economic evils, or
as helps to, at least, local prosperity. And as crop failures, the rav-
ages of insects, the diseases of animals, the disappearance of fish, and
maladministration of government, are local and not necessarily per-
manent, they must all clearly, in any investigation, be regarded as
secondary and not primary agencies. In short, the general recogni-
tion, by all investigators, that the striking characteristic of the eco-
nomic disturbance that has prevailed since 1873 is its universality, of
necessity compels a recognition of the fact that the agency which was
mainly instrumental in producing it could not have been local, and
must have been universal in its influence and action. And the ques-
tion of interest which next presents itself is, can any such agency, thus
operative and thus potential, be recognized ? Let us inquire.
* No term has been used more loosely in the discussion of this subject of trade de-
pression than that of over-production. The idea that there can be such a thing as a
general production of useful or desirable commodities in excess of what is wanted is an
absurdity; but there may be, as above stated, an amount of production in excess of
demand at remunerative prices, or, what is substantially the same thing, an excess of
capacity for production; or the term may be properly used to indicate a check on the
distribution of products consequent on the existence of such conditions.
Professor Ferdinand ConN, in a paper on Vital Questions, considers that
we have half solved the riddle of life, inasmuch as we have grasped its mechan-
ism and the physical and chemical forces that set it in motion. But as we still
have to face other phenomena and active forces, the full solution of the problem
is yet far deferred.
