3 c6 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
have a sufficiently large body of energetic botanists who would gladly
do original work if they could. Neither can a lack of requisite train-
ing, 1 think, be regarded as the main obstacle in the way of research.
It is true, to be sure, that it has been a serious obstacle in many cases,
but it need not be hereafter. If we have not so many well-equipped
laboratories of research, so many large libraries and collections as are
to be found in European countries, we do have a number of botanical
and biological establishments where a student can acquire the training
necessary to prepare him for good, original work in botany. However
desirable it may be, it certainly is no longer necessary that a young
man should go to France or Germany in order to prepare himself for
independent work. The great advantage to be obtained from a course
of study abroad is the stimulus derived from association with those
w ? ho devote most of their time to research, as is common in Germany ;
but, so far as acquiring merely the technical details necessary to one
who would carry on independent work or the general knowledge of
vegetable morphology, physiology, and histology, which must precede
special work in every case, there certainly are laboratories in this
country which are quite sufficient for the purpose. Whether a student
who can afford to study abroad had not better do so in preference to
remaining at home is, of course, another question, and has nothing to
do with the fact that one can get a good preparation for work here.
If one wishes to pursue botanical investigation, it is his own fault if he
does not fit himself for the work by thorough training, unless, indeed,
he is too poor ; and neither in this country nor any other is it ever
going to be possible for one without some pecuniary resources to ob-
tain a training in any branch of science unless he happens to be a per-
son of extraordinary ability.
The two most serious obstacles in the way of research in this
country are the want of time and means among those who are men-
tally well equipped for the work, and who would gladly pursue special
investigations were it possible. The lack of time and lack of means
are closely related, and, in this country, are unfortunately often found
together. If a botanist were only wealthy, he could, of course, find time
for research. But, when I speak of lack of means, I refer not to an
absence of individual wealth for we all know that our active botanists
have been, and probably always will be, of a class in society only com-
fortably well off, at the best but rather to the lack of laboratory equip-
ment, suitable assistants, means of publication, etc. It is an unfortu-
nate fact, too, that those who have the most time at their disposal are
usually those away from laboratories and libraries, while those who,
like the instructors in the richer colleges, have access to good labora-
tories and libraries, have to spend most of their time in teaching. Of
the two, lack of time and lack of means, I am inclined to believe that
the former is the more of an obstacle in the way of research, since it
is possible for an energetic, well-trained botanist to do a good deal
