THE TASK OF AMERICAN BOTANISTS. 309
short the time for other work. In Germany they manage the thing
better. The ordinary laboratory work is in the hands of assistants,
and the professor, besides his lectures, gives his time to advanced
students and original work. The question is, Can our colleges pay for
more assistants ? They have hard enough work to pay the professors,
as a rule, but if the public could be made to see the real need of assist-
ants, and recognize the fact that a professors salary is not large enough
for him to pay for assistance out of his own pocket, perhaps, sooner
or later, the money might be provided. As far as the professors and
instructors in schools and colleges are concerned, they are not so well
able to do original work as formerly, owing to the more laborious
methods of modern instruction ; but it may be that we are in a stage
of transition, and that before long the possibility of overdoing instruc-
tion to the detriment of research may be felt by those in charge of
institutions of learning.
It may be suggested as a possible solution of the difficulty that
there should be some professors for teaching and others for research.
That is all very well, if you are not going to give ail the money to the
one who does the teaching. There is a tendency to regard any salary,
no matter how small, as large enough for one who is engaged in
research, and the reason usually assigned is absurd, viz., that investi-
gators prefer investigation to any other work. It seems preposterous
that the fact that a mans heart is in his work should be made a pre-
text for paying him less for his work ! There are those who prefer
teaching to research, and are they paid any the less because they like
their teaching ? Of the two, the instructor and the investigator, the
latter has the more frequent professional calls on his purse even in
well-equipped colleges, and statistics are wanting to show that investi-
gators have smaller families to provide for than teachers.
Having considered some of the difficulties in the way of research,
we can return to the original question. What sort of botanical inves-
tigation is needed in this country ? Whatever may be the case in
physics and chemistry, it is a fact that the study of natural history in
any country passes through stages of development much the same
everywhere. In a new country the first work must be almost entirely
descriptive and classificatory ; and, when this work has reached a suffi-
ciently advanced stage, histology, physiology, and study of life-
histories assume more and more importance. In most European
countries the first stage has been long past, except as far as some of
the lowest forms of plants are concerned, and the greater part of the
best work of France and Germany at the present day relates to physi-
ological and developmental subjects. Where do we stand? The
question is important, because there is not infrequently a tendency to
assume that work in this country is of value only in so far as it is on
the same plane and of the same kind as work in Europe. We must be
contented to wait a little while, and we do harm rather than good if
