3 io THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
we teach that there is no work worth doing except that done in the
laboratories of Germany. It often seems as if we were producing a set
of precious little prigs, when one sees young men turning up their noses
at all those who do any work not involving the most complicated
microscopical manipulations. It is well to have our standard high, but
it should not be unattainable. We may well set before our young
men such models as De Bary, Sachs, Strasburger, and others ; but it is
just possible that a young man who is determined to be a De Bary, a
Sachs, a Strasburger, or nothing, may have to adopt the latter alterna-
tive. The trouble is, too many young men assume that the work
which they are destined to do is of the highest grade, and they expect
to be provided with all the refined apparatus and complete equipment
which the leaders of botany abroad possess. They will not begin the
simplest thing without an array of reagents which would be the envy
of a good many chemists, and the number of staining-fluids which
they must have around them would make the rainbow T blush at its own
poverty. One young man thinks he cant do any work because he has
not a Jung microtome. Another has been unable to do anything dur-
ing a vacation at the sea-shore because he had no osmic acid. To such
persons one is inclined to say that he would be thankful if they would
do an v thing.
As far as the kind of investigation needed in botany is concerned,
we stand where Germany formerly stood, not where she now stands.
It is of no use to say that descriptive systematic work is not highly
rated in Germany. Our country is so large, and some parts of it are
so little explored, that descriptive work has by no means reached its
limit. The only question is, how to have it well done ; and this brings
us to a consideration of the comparative advantages of systematic
work and histological and developmental work for different classes of
workers. One weak point in our botanical work has been that too
many persons have attempted to write on descriptive subjects. Strange
as it may seem to some ears, it appears to me that histological and
developmental work is what is best adapted for non-professional bot-
anists, including those who do not devote their whole time to the sub-
ject, and who as a rule have not sufficiently complete libraries and
herbaria to enable them to do descriptive work well. This does not
apply, of course, to the older generation of botanists, few of whom
have had the training necessary for histological work, but it does
apply to the younger generation. Inasmuch as the larger libraries and
collections are in the colleges and larger cities, descriptive work, if it
is not to be shabbily done, must be done by persons connected with
colleges, or by those who are so situated that they can easily visit
herbaria and libraries. Furthermore, descriptive work should be in
the hands of a comparatively few experts, for long experience is neces-
sary to a good result ; whereas the questions in histology, physiology,
and development are very numerous, some of them of small range,
