THE TASK OF AMERICAN BOTANISTS. 311
and could be done well by careful, conscientious workers, without a
Ion a- experience and without extensive libraries. As far as equipment
is concerned, there are, of course, subjects in physiology which require
the elaborate apparatus found only in large botanical establishments,
but there are others which do not. The botanist who declares that
he can not do physiological work because he has not a large amount
of apparatus, would do well to recall the case of a Mr. Charles
Darwin, who published something on the power of movement in
plants.
If the formal publication of descriptions of new species had better
be left to a few experts, the collection of material must be accomplished
mainly by those who are not connected with colleges, and who are not
in a position to profit by large libraries and herbaria, and we have to
consider one very perplexing question, viz., How can collectors receive a
suitable recognition of their work ? The sneering remark, He is only a
collector, is in many cases grossly unjust. In a large part of our coun-
try, the work must for some time to come consist in the discovery of
the plants not before known, or not well known, and in such regions the
work of the collector is just what is wanted. The man who with a keen
eye goes into the field and collects, making discriminating notes on
the habits and relationships of plants, is doing a very valuable service
for science, and is as truly a botanist, in the best sense of the word, as
he who, differently situated, writes descriptive monographs or pursues
histological or physiological work. The temptation is for a person
who, from his surroundings, ought to be a collector, to suppose that he
should go further and attempt to describe the species he has found a
task which, as I have already said, can not well be performed away
from large libraries and collections. For one, I honor those active
and intelligent men and women who, isolated from the botanical
centers, bring together the material of which, in the future, books and
monographs are to be made. It is not enough to call them merely
collectors. They are botanists in full standing.
If I have said that descriptive botany can be studied best by per-
sons attached to the colleges and the comparatively few experts who
have access to large collections and libraries, I by no means think that
botanical research in colleges should be limited to this field. The one
department in which we are already entitled to hold up our heads and
say, We are as good as anybody, is systematic phrenogamic botany.
In every other department we are behind hand, and must hurry if we
would catch up with our more advanced transatlantic brothers. If I
have spent some time in defending the claims of systematic botany, it
was because the rising generation have developed an unwarranted con-
tempt for such work. The claims of vegetable physiology on our
young men are very great; and when we consider that, as a nation, we
are noted for our inventive powers and fondness for studies having a
practical bearing, it seems a little strange that vegetable physiology
