THE SUNS HEAT. 23
on the thread of an ideal screw cut on a vertical shaft of ideal matter,
absolutely hard and absolutely frictionless : first, go back a step to
our supposition of just one such rod and screw working in a single pit
excavated down to the center of the sun, and let us suppose all the
rest of the suns mass to be rigid and absolutely impervious to heat.
Warm up the matter of the pyramidal rod to such a temperature that
its material melts and experiences enough of Sir Humphry Davys
repulsive motion to keep it balanced as a fluid, without either sink-
ing or rising from the position in which it was held by the thread of
the screw. When the matter is thus held up without the screw, take
away the screw or let it melt in its place. We should thus have a pit
from the suns surface to his center, of a square metre area at the sur-
face, full of incandescent fluid, which we may suppose to be of the
actual ingredients of the solar substance. This fluid, having at the
first instant the temperature with which the paddle left it, would at
the first instant continue radiating heat just as it did when the paddle
was kept moving ; but it would quickly become much cooler at its
surface, and to a distance of a few metres down. Convection-currents,
with their irregular whirls, would carry the cool fluid down from the
surface, and bring up hotter fluid from below, but this mixing could
not go on through a depth of very many metres to a sufficient degree
to keep up anything approaching to the high temperature maintained
by the paddle ; and after a few hours or days, solidification would
commence at the surface. If the solidified matter floats on the fluid
at the same temperature below it, the crust would simply thicken as
ice on a lake thickens in frosty weather ; but if, as is more probable,
solid matter, of such ingredients as the sun is composed of, sinks in
the liquid when both are at the melting temperature of the substance,
thin films of the upper crust would fall in, and continue falling in,
until, for several metres downward, the whole mass of mixed solid
and fluid becomes stiff enough (like the stiffness of paste or of mor-
tar) to prevent the frozen film from falling down from the surface.
The surface film would then quickly thicken, and in the course of a
few hours or days become less than red-hot on its upper surface. The
whole pit full of fluid would go on cooling with extreme slowness
until, after possibly about a million million million years or so, it would
be all at the same temperature as the space to which its upper end
radiates.
Now, let precisely what we have been considering be done for every
one of our pyramidal rods, with, however, in the first place, thin par-
titions of matter impervious to heat separating every pit from its four
surrounding neighbors. Precisely the same series of events as we
have been considering will take place in every one of the pits.
Suppose the whole complex mass to be rotating at the rate of once
round in twenty-five days.
Now at the instant when the paddle stops let all the partitions be
