314 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
search, and to indicate the path which promises to be most favorable
in the future. If my life proves to be as long as your patience, there
will be plenty of opportunities hereafter to consider some points which
I have been unable to touch upon to-day.
VARIATIONS IN HUMAN STATURE.
By M. GUYOT DAUBES.
THE study of human stature involves several questions of more
important interest than that of mere theory or curiosity. It may
aid us in learning whether the human race is really degenerating, as
some persons assert, by determining whether our ancestors in heroic
and prehistoric times had the superior physical prowess that is often
ascribed to them. It should teach us whether there are races of
dwarfs and of giants, and what are the distances separating the races
that most nearly approach those descriptions. We learn from it the
exact facts respecting the differences in stature among the people of a
single nation, our own, for instance, to which military men attach
high value. Other fields of inquiry, of a practical bearing, regard the
causes that influence the stature of populations and races in general,
and the growth of individuals, from infancy up ; and the influence of
stature upon the force, agility, endurance, and physical development
of individuals. An opinion was current, in the last century, that our
ancestors, at some time in the past, were the equals or superiors in
size to the largest men now to be found. M. Henrion presented to
the Academie des Inscriptions, in 1718, a memoir on the variations in
the size of man from the beginning of the world till the Christian era,
in which Adam was given one hundred and twenty-three feet nine
inches, and Eve one hundred and eighteen feet nine and three fourths
inches. But after the first pair, the human race, in his imagination,
suffered a regular decrease, so that Noah was only one hundred feet
high, while Abraham shrank down to twenty-eight feet, Moses to thir-
teen feet, the mighty Hercules to ten feet eight and a half inches, and
Alexander the Great to a bare six feet and a half. The communica-
tion, it is said, was received with enthusiasm, and was regarded, at the
time, as a wonderful discovery and a sublime vision.
The complaint about the degeneracy of the human race is not new,
but dates as far back as the time of Homer, at least ; for the men of
his day were not like the heroes of whom he sang. It is not confirmed,
but is contradicted by all the tangible facts, and these are not a few.
Human remains that are exhumed, after having reposed in the grave
formany centuries, as in the Catacombs of Paris, have nothing gigantic
about them. The armor, the cuirasses, and the casques of the warriors
of the middle ages, can be worn by modern soldiers ; and many of the
