VARIATIONS IN HUMAN STATURE. 315
knights suits would be too small for the cuirassiers of the European
armies ; yet they were worn by the selected men, who were better
fed, stronger, and more robust than the rest of the population. The
bones of the ancient Gauls, which are uncovered in the excavations of
tumuli, while they are of large dimensions, are comparable with those
of the existing populations of many places in France.
The Egyptian mummies are the remains of persons of small or me-
dium stature, as are also the Peruvian and Mexican mummies, and the
mummies and bones found in the ancient monuments of India and
Persia. And even the most ancient relics we possess of individuals of
the human species, the bones of men who lived in the Tertiary period,
an epoch the remote antiquity of which goes back for hundreds of
centuries, do not show any important differences in the sizes of the
primitive and of the modern man.
Considerable differences will be found to exist, when we compare
the statures of the various races of mankind ; and it is the exaggera-
tion of this fact that has given rise to the legends of dwarf and giant
peoples. Individuals of the supposed dwarf races would appear quite
large if compared with real dwarfs. A dwarf much over three feet
high begins to lose interest as a dwarf ; if he reaches four feet and
more, he ceases to be a dwarf, and becomes a little man. Now, the
well-shaped adults of the smaller human races always, with very few
exceptions, exceed four feet in height. These races are not, therefore,
dwarfs, but simply small races. It is, nevertheless, interesting to study
them, and compare them with the larger races. So, in these latter
races, men much exceeding seven feet are exceptional, and merit the
name of giants. Still, the average of stature in these larger races is
much more considerable than in the smaller races ; and a man of the
average size, among them, would be a giant compared with an average
specimen of the smaller races.
Among the smaller races are the Esquimaux, averaging five feet,
two inches ; the Lapps men, five feet one inch, women, four feet
seven inches ; the Akkas seen by Schweinfurth in Africa ; the Negritos
of the Philippine and Andaman Islands, and Malacca ; the dwarf race
of Madagascar ; and the Bushmen, whose height ranges from four
feet five inches to four feet six and three fourths inches.
Among the large races may be mentioned the Norwegians, the
Canadians, the North American Indians, the Caffres, the Patagonians,
and the Polynesians, the average height of the last two of which is
estimated at about six feet. The difference in the mean height of the
various human races is, therefore, that between four feet five inches
and six feet, or one foot seven inches. The mean between these two
numbers is about five feet three inches ; and this standard is gener-
ally agreed upon by anthropologists as a division line in the approxi-
mative classification of the races according to their height. Those are
called medium races which average from five and one fourth to five
