3 i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
them. The portrait of Borulawsky is after a contemporary engraving,
that of Winckelmeier from a recent photograph. Beside them are
placed a new-born infant of twenty inches, an infantry soldier of mini-
mum stature (five feet one inch), a man of average size (five feet five
inches), and a cuirassier of six feet. The illustration comprises all the
important variations in human stature.
The conditions that affect the stature of populations and races of
men may all be described under one general head that of nutrition.
The size of a population, a race, or a group of individuals living for sev-
eral generations in the same conditions of environment and resources,
is proportionate to its nutrition. Coming to particulars, we find that
this nutrition depends, first, on the aptitude for assimilation, which is
a question of climate ; and, second, upon the facility with which the
people can obtain a quantity of food in proportion to their power of
assimilation.
It was long believed that climate alone had a great influence on
stature ; and, in fact, if we regard the white or light-colored races, we
remark that the stature is less in climates of extreme temperatures than
in temperate latitudes. In the extremely cold Arctic regions, the Lapps,
Esquimaux, and Greenlanders are very small ; but coming down into
more temperate regions and more fertile countries, we find much larger
races, like the Norsemen, Russians, Anglo-Saxons, and North-Germans
in Europe, and the Canadians and Indians in America. Farther south,
and as the temperature becomes hotter, the stature diminishes ; a fact
which may be verified among the Italians and Spaniards, and which is
observed in most of the great regions of the globe.
These variations are not the effect of climate, but are directly
dependent, as we have already said, on nutrition. In very cold cli-
mates, assimilation is excessive, for the organism needs a large
quantity of food to sustain it against the outer temperature. If, in
consequence of the rigor of the climate and the limited resources of
the country in game and fish, waste is a little superior, or quite equal,
to assimilation, the population subject to such conditions must con-
tinue small. This is the case with the Laplanders and the Esquimaux
of the Arctic islands and the east coast of Greenland. But when game
and fish are abundant, the stature of the tribe rises ; as takes place
with the Esquimaux, whose average height increases as their habitat
draws nearer to their southern limit. There the Esquimaux cease to
be dwarfs and reach the average height of five and a half feet, or
greater than that of the French population. The climate is still rigor-
ous in Canada, and organic assimilation very active, but the country
is fertile and food abundant. There the native Indians and the colo-
nists of European origin attain great size and vigor. The Norsemen
and the Russians in Europe are in analogous conditions. On what a
Russian mujik eats in a day a Spanish peasant could subsist for a week.
It is to the influence of a keen winter cold and the assimilative power
