320
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
and the enfeebling infirmities and sufferings of tbose who survive.
This is what took place in France during the long period of war that
prevailed at the close of the eighteenth century and during the first
empire.
Among the causes that operate upon the stature of individuals, con-
sidered separately, the first place is given to age. The growth of the
infant, of the youth, and of the young man till maturity, is not pro-
portional to their ages. It is more rapid in the earliest years, then
keeps slackening till the time when the man, having reached maturity,
ceases to grow. His stature then remains stationary till the approach
of old age, after which it diminishes till the end of life. Some physi-
ologists have tried to determine the law of the mean advance of growth.
Buffon has given, month by month for the earliest infancy, afterward
year by year, the growth of a young man. Dr. Lorain has represented
graphically the variations in the growth in stature and weight of two
children ; during the first year for one of them, Jean Lorain (Fig. 3),
and during the first two years for Juliette R (Fig- 4). In these
graphics the lower curve corresponds with the stature, and the upper
one with the weight; and they enable us to observe the arrest of growth
that may have been caused by the sufferings of the child. In Jean
Lorains curve we see the pause that took place when the subject was
vaccinated, an arrest which continued, accompanied by a considerable
loss of weight, during a period of pneumonia. The occasion of the
appearance of the first two teeth also caused an arrest of growth. We
can see in like manner on Juliette R s curve pauses of growth in
both lines, corresponding with indisposition.
Quetelet has represented the mean increase of stature according
to age by a curve. The curve has a clearly-defined parabolical form
1 S 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 IS 13 14 15 16 U 18 19 SO
Fig. 5. Parabolical cprve, representing, by millimetres, the increase in height accord-
ing to age. (From Quetelets Anthropometry.)
(Fig. 5). It supposes the child to be fifty centimetres (or twenty
inches) at birth. While this curve represents the mean, there are
in reality very characteristic differences in the course of growth of
children. Independently of the influence of sickness, accidents, ex-
