VARIATIONS IN HUMAN STATURE. 321
cessive mental labors, anxieties about examinations, all causes that
have an influence on growth, there are children whose growth is
more accentuated than the mean at some period of their existence;
and others, tardy ones, who grow till twenty-five or thirty years old,
or even longer. With very many youth, growth does not stop at
twenty-one years.
The rate of growth of children varies according to sex. Thus, at
the age of eleven and twelve years, boys are larger and heavier than
girls ; but from that age on the evolution of the girls is more rapid,
and they soon overtake the boys and pass them, till the age of fifteen
years is reached, when the boys regain the ascendency, while the girls
remain nearly stationary. A curious relation has been discovered
between the growth of children in stature and in weight. M. Malling-
Hansen, Director of the Deaf and Dumb Institution at Copenhagen,
has for three years weighed and measured his pupils daily ; and he
has observed that their growth does not take place regularly and pro-
gressively, but by stages separated by intervals of rest. Weight also
increases by periods after intervals of equilibrium. While the weight
is increasing, the stature remains nearly stationary, and vice versa.
The maximum of increase of stature corresponds with a minimum
period of augmentation of weight. The vital forces appear not to work
on both sides at once. These variations are subject to the influence of
the seasons. During autumn and early winter, according to M.
Malling-Hansen, the child accumulates weight, while his stature in-
creases slowly ; but during spring, stature receives a veritable push,
while weight increases but little. Some local habits have an influence
on the stature. Stendhal remarked that many Roman girls had de-
formed vertebral columns, or were a little humpbacked, and found that
it was the result of a popular belief prevailing in Rome that parents
could promote the growth of their children by punching them in the
back ! A popular custom in some of the towns of Switzerland also
affects the development of the children. Mothers are accustomed
to give them brandied lumps of sugar to keep them from crying. It
has been learned from experiments on animals that alcohol tends to
stunt the growth of the young. The habit of some women of the
lower classes of drinking brandy during pregnancy in order to give
their children fair complexions must likewise have a bad influence on
the development of the children. On the other hand, growth is fa-
vored by strong food, rich in nitrogen and phosphates, by good hy-
giene, by play and gymnastic exercises, by plenty of air, and by all the
causes that contribute to make children strong and vigorous.
One of the less recognized agencies affecting stature is fatigue,
under the influence of which the height diminishes. A soldier, for
instance, is perceptibly taller before than after a forced march ; when
the body is fatigued it gives way, the cartilages lose their elasticity
and become thinner, and the fatty and fibrous cushions, which give
VOL. XXXI. 21
