24 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
annulled, so that there shall be perfect freedom for convection-currents
to flow unresisted in any direction, except so far as resisted by the
viscosity of the fluid, and leave the piece of matter, which we may
now call the sun, to himself. He will immediately begin showing all
the phenomena known in solar physics. Of course, the observer
might have to wait a few years for sun-spots, and a few quarter-
centuries to discover periods of sun-spots, but they would, I think I
may say, probably, all be there just as they are : because I think we
may feel that it is most probable that all these actions are due to the
suns own mass and not to external influences of any kind. It is, how-
ever, quite possible, and indeed many who know most of the subject
think it probable, that some of the chief phenomena due to sun-spots
arise from influxes of meteoric matter circling round the sun. The
energy of chemical combination is as nothing compared with the
gravitational energy of shrinkage, to which the suns activity is almost
wholly due, but chemical combinations and dissociations may, as urged
by Lockyer, be thoroughly potent determining influences on some of
the features of non-uniformity of the brightness in the grand phe-
nomena of sun-spots, hydrogen-flames, and corona, which make the
province of solar physics. But these are questions belonging to a
very splendid branch of solar science with which we are not occupied
this evening.
What concerns us at present may be summarized in two proposi-
tions :
1. Gigantic convection-currents throughout the suns liquid mass
are continually maintained by fluid, slightly cooled by radiation, falling
down from the surface, and hotter fluid rushing up to take its place.
2. The work done in any time by the mutual gravitation of all the
parts of the fluid, as it shrinks in virtue of the lowering of its temper-
ature, is but little less than (so little less than, that we may regard it
as practically equal to*) the dynamical equivalent of the heat that is
radiated from the sun in the same time.
The rate of shrinkage corresponding to the present rate of solar
radiation has been proved to us, by the consideration of our dynamical
model, to be thirty-five metres on the radius per year, or one ten-thou-
sandth of its own length on the radius per two thousand years. Hence,
if the solar radiation has been about the same as at present for two
hundred thousand years, his radius must have been greater by one per
cent two hundred thousand years ago than at present. If we wish to
carry our calculations much farther back or forward than two hundred
thousand years, we must reckon by differences of the reciprocal of the
suns radius, and not by differences simply of the radius, to take into
account the change of density (which, for example, would be three per
* On the Age of the Suns Ileat, by Sir William Thomson ( Macmillans Maga-
zine, March, 1862) ; and Thomson and Taits Natural Thilosophy, second edition, vol.
i, part ii, Appendix E.
