324 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
George W. Childs. On the former occasion, Mr. Field, having referred
to the Suez Canal and the obstacles met with in its construction, said
with regard to De Lesseps and Panama : As that work is now in
progress, it may be presumptuous to speak of what is in the future. I
can only say that I learned in Egypt that it will not do to say that
anything is impossible to M. de Lesseps, and that he has with him the
ardent hopes of all Americans that he may not taste of death till he
has carried out his last and greatest work, which will link his name
imperishably with this New World as it is already linked with the
Old.
Sentiments of this sort, in sympathy with the undertaking rather
than opposed to it, were expressed at the banquet in Philadelphia.
De Lesseps, in the course of his visit, listened rather to what admirers
or sympathizers had to say than to utterances of another description.
But these compliments are not a reflection of the whole of public sen-
timent. Many Americans, having assumed in the beginning an antag-
onistic feeling toward the enterprise, are still disposed to keep that
feeling and to support it by regarding largely if not chiefly the dif-
ficulties to be met. It may not be out of place to see how far this
attitude is justified by the physical elements of the vast undertaking
and the financial prospects of the Panama Company ; we may also
glance at facts, perhaps at the opinions of authorities, as to the de-
sirability of some sort of interoceanic passage.
In 1883 Admiral Cooper, then in command of the tTnited States
naval forces at Panama, submitted to the Navy Department a report
upon the condition of the enterprise ; in this he says : The whole
undertaking is so gigantic that one can not believe that it will soon
be finished ; but I am impressed with the fact that the French are
thoroughly in earnest, and that if they fail to finish the canal on ac-
count of want of funds the work done by them will be well done, and
will be so extensive as to always give this route great advantages over
any other. He also observes : Opinions have been expressed that
the work is being delayed by unnecessary attention to details and in
making provision for possible emergencies ; but this careful prepara-
tion for the great undertaking strengthens my belief that the canal
will ultimately be finished more than anything else.
These opinions were expressed some four years ago, when hardly
a beginning had been made in the matter of excavation, less than one
million cubic metres having been removed. The amount removed up
to the 1st of January of the present year was thirty millions, about a
quarter of the whole.* It is safe to say that since 1883 the chances
This estimate, twenty -five per cent, implies the completion of the work as a sea-level
canal. As much as this, however, we ought not to assume. Should the work be com-
pleted as a lock-canal the requisite excavation would be much less.
With regard to the total excavation, estimated by the company at 120,000,000 cubic
metres, authorities are not agreed. Lieutenant Kimball, United States Navy, from whose
