THE PANAMA CANAL. 327
The Panama Company, because of the names and past of the men
who direct it ; the eminent advisers whom it possesses ; the grand and
in some sort humanitarian character of the work it pursues ; because
of the serious efforts which it has already made, and is still making
successfully to complete the work, deserves in a special sense the re-
gard of the Government.
Much has been said as to the unfavorable character of the report
of Rousseau. Although not published in full, it is understood not to
be in every respect what De Lesseps would have wished. Yet, judging
from the passages quoted, it is plain that the author is in no sense in-
different to the fate of the undertaking. He recognizes the stake pos-
sessed in it, alike by the French people and the French Government.
It seems, therefore, probable that the French will make strenuous
efforts to finish the canal ; reports, on the other hand, have been current
as to the calculations of English, German, and American capitalists, in
view of a possible collapse. A year or two will probably determine
the success or failure of the company. It has, however, a resource
wholly within itself the reduction of the cost by making the canal
with locks instead of cutting it to the sea-level. This is the course
recommended by the commissioner of the French Government, Rous-
seau. Upon such conditions the assistance of the Government might
be more readily obtained than if the company should persist in endeav-
oring to carry out its original purpose. In case the lock solution should
be adopted, it is to be kept in mind that such a canal at Panama pos-
sesses one unquestioned advantage over one at Nicaragua : the former
can, while the latter can not, be converted into a sea-level canal.
It may be observed, besides, that the only plan for a canal at
Panama ever submitted by the engineers of the United States, that
of Lull and Menocal, in 1875, is a plan including locks. De Lesseps is
not a man to neglect his own interests ; he might be ready enough, no
doubt, to take a hint, never mind from what source. Fas est ab hoste
doceri* Should this design be adopted, so as to get the canal through,
and should the undertaking prove remunerative, capital might be sub-
sequently raised to deepen the work to the sea-lev el.
One common error in estimating the cost of the canal here deserves
attention. The preparatory expenses of such an undertaking are large.
A heavy outlay is required before much more than a beginning can be
made in the matter of excavation. The Hon. John Bigelow, in his
report upon the status of the enterprise, submitted to the New York
Chamber of Commerce in April, 1886, gives a table of the expenses
down to July, 1885. It is taken from De Lessepss annual report of
that date. In it the expenditure up to this point is put down at 368,-
* This is not a point to be pressed. Wyse and Reclus prepared two plans for a ship-
canal at Panama, one a sea-level plan and one with locks. The former was adopted by
the Paris Congress. It was plain, however, that should this method of execution prove
too expensive, the company might fall back upon the other alternative.
