THE PANAMA CANAL. 329
Before leaving Mr. Bigelows exposition of errors, into which un-
less upon our guard we might perhaps he led, it may be observed that
his report, prepared after a personal inspection of the work, is one of
the most judicial documents published upon the subject ; and those
desirous of forming an impartial estimate would do well to acquaint
themselves with it. To indicate the importance attached by Mr. Bige-
low to the completion of the work we may cite the passage which
follows. He observes that the French, especially people of moderate
means, possess for several reasons extraordinary faith in De Lesseps ;
partly because they know that De Lesseps does not job with the
securities of the undertaking ; partly because of the financial success
of the Suez Canal ; and partly because the completion of the Panama
Canal under De Lessepss auspices would rank among the half-dozen
largest contributions ever made to the permanent glory of France.
These references to Mr. Bigelows report may be supplemented by
an extract or so from the latest report made to our Government on
the subject, the Special Intelligence Report of Lieutenant W. W.
Kimball, United States Navy, who inspected the works about the
same time as Mr. Bigelow, early in 1886.* Lieutenant Kimball says :
That with a sufficient expenditure of money, time, brains, energy,
and human life, the canal can be finished, is self-evident, but it would
be idle for me to attempt to estimate the necessary quantity of all or
any of them. Too many of the prime data for calculation are un-
known quantities.
If such a statement on the part of Lieutenant Kimball makes us
cautious in accepting the present, or at least recent, estimate of the
company as to ultimate cost, 1,200,000,000 francs, it may make us
equally cautious in accepting the pessimistic, larger estimates which
appear from time to time.
As regards the plans Lieutenant Kimball says, As might be ex-
pected of the work of the eminent engineers who have made the plans,
the design is almost above criticism.
With reference to the proposed dam at Gamboa, by which the
freshets of the Chagres River are to be controlled, a work as to whose
impracticability or insufficiency much has been said, the writer ob-
serves, The engineering difficulties are to me not at all patent.
This exhaustive report is not without strictures upon the course of
the company in certain cases. Lieutenant Kimball, in particular, is
disposed to think, while holding that the plans for the control of the
Chagres River are practicable enough, that their execution has been
unadvisedly delayed ; floods have at certain points carried into the
excavation fresh deposits which will require to be re-excavated. f
* The writer is indebted to Lieutenant Kimball for permission to make use of the
proofs of his report.
f Since the above was written, a dispatch from Washington states that an inspection
of the canal was made in March by another officer of our navy, Lieutenant C. C. Rogers.
