THE PANAMA CANAL. 331
perienced by commerce being for 1866, $50,000,000, would be for
1876, $100,000,000 ; and for 1886, $200,000,000. According to this
computation, the annual loss to commerce at present is equivalent
to the cost of the Panama Canal as estimated by the Paris Con-
gress. Every year, if we may assume the above data, money enough
is wasted because we do not have a canal to build one ! Such a
calculation is, however, in excess of the truth. The computation
of Levasseur, the one adopted by the Paris Congress, that sixteen
years would be required to double the tonnage, is more moderate
and much more reliable. According to this, if the loss in 1866 may
be set down at $50,000,000, the loss in 1882 would be $100,000,000.
It is quite possible that the truth lies between the estimates of Levas-
seur and Davis. Over a page of Mr. Bigelows report is devoted to
the estimates of a commercial journal of Paris, The Revue-Gazette,
and these exceed the estimates of Levasseur. Authorities differ but
even estimates not among the highest show that some interoceanio
route for ships is one of the greatest commercial needs of our
times.
It seems almost superfluous to ask for the indorsement of names to
an enterprise of such great utility ; but, as the testimony of experts
has weight with many minds, a few authorities of unquestioned com-
petence may be cited. Among such may be reckoned Admiral Am-
men. Appointed by General Grant one of a commission of three to
report upon the interoceanic question, he was subsequently sent by
our Government to represent it at the Congress of Paris. In his vol-
ume upon the interoceanic question, he observes that the result to
be attained is the grandest that man is capable of achieving for the
amelioration of the commerce of the world. *
Not less significant is the opinion of the late W. W. Evans, an Ameri-
can engineer of distinction. Of Mr. Evans, Admiral Ammen remarks,
in a recent publication, that his name is known all over the world. Mr.
Evans wrote in 1879 that this canal matter was the most important
matter in the line of progress now before the world. f Such a state-
ment may perhaps lead us to ask, Does not the ascription to the canal
of such a preponderant influence connect itself with questions of inter-
national law ? Admiral Davis, in his report, already cited, quotes
from a writer, whose name he does not give, this statement, viz., that
the cutting of the Isthmus would prove the mightiest event probably
in favor of the peaceful intercourse of nations which the physical
circumstances of the globe present. Assuming that it is desirable
that the peaceful intercourse of nations be promoted, another question
naturally presents itself : Would it be promoted or not by the estab-
lishment and recognition in the cases of Suez and Panama of the neu-
trality of these works ? This is not an occasion to discuss such a
* The American Interoceanic Ship-Canal Question, by Admiral Ammen, p. 6*7.
j- Journal of the American Geographical Society for 1879, p. 144.
