332 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
point. It may be enough to indicate the significance which attaches
to it.
Among other authorities may be named Admiral Davis, Professor
Nourse, United States Navy, who prepared for the department in
1883 a report upon the Suez and Panama Canals, Lieutenant Maury,
General Grant, and Senator Windom. In the Senate, February 28,
1881, the latter observed, after referring to the significance of the
work and the demand for its execution, that it was a wonder it had
not been sooner undertaken. Pitt, Jefferson, and Humboldt, are men
of a former generation who interested themselves in the problem.
As the work is at present in French hands, some reference to
French authorities might not be out of place. The curious may
consult to advantage an address delivered by Renan, April 23, 1885,
when De Lesseps was received by the French Academy. Renan, after
assuming that the possible inhabitants of the planets may have better
telescopes than ours, alleges that they might judge of our civilization
by the state of our isthmuses. A planet, he continues, is not ripe
for progress till all its inhabited parts are brought into intimate rela-
tions, each with each, so as to constitute a living organism, so that no
part may be able to enjoy, or suffer, or act, without feeling and reac-
tion in all the rest.
Nor is it to be said that this reference to the cutting of isthmuses
as a touch-stone of civilization is an empty compliment, one which
might fitly, perhaps, find its place in a eulogistic address. The testi-
monies adduced as to the division of the American Continent are ex-
plicit enough. It is safe to say that if the completion of any enter-
prise in course of execution to-day is loudly called for by the interests,
even the necessities of all states, it is the enterprise at Panama. The
French may not be able to complete it if by them it is to be com-
pleted as soon as their wishes and certain possible political calcula-
tions have designated. They may not celebrate its inauguration, and
at the same time celebrate the centennial of the Bastile and the era
of the Revolution. Let us hope, at all events, that the inauguration
is not to be long deferred.
The proper spirit in which this great enterprise ought to be re-
garded is perhaps set forth in the following lines from a German
source. The Gazette of the Administration of the Railroads of Ger-
many, published in Berlin, expressed itself in a recent number thus :
In conclusion, we should not fail to express a hope that the
courageous builders of the canal will succeed in overcoming all ob-
stacles, so that a great work, which will be the pride of the engineer-
ing art of to-day, and even of the nineteenth century, may be success-
fully finished by those who thus far have borne the entire labor and
the entire weight. If the present company should fail, certainly a
second would be formed which would inherit the advantages and ex-
periences of the first, without having paid for these at its own risk
