THE SUNS HEAT. z 5
cent for one per cent change of the radius). Thus the rule, easily-
worked out according to the principles illustrated by our mechanical
model, is this :
Equal differences of the reciprocal of the radius correspond to
equal quantities of heat radiated away from million of years to million
of years.
Take two examples :
1. If in past time there has been as much as fifteen million times
the heat radiated from the sun as is at present radiated out in one year,
the solar radius must have been four times as great as at present.
2. If the suns effective thermal capacity can be maintained by
shrinkage till twenty million times the present years amount of heat
is radiated away, the suns radius must be half what it is now. But it
is to be remarked that the density which this would imply, being 11*2
times the density of water, or just about the density of lead, is proba-
bly too great to allow the free shrinkage as of a cooling gas to be still
continued without obstruction through overcrowding of the molecules.
It seems, therefore, most probable that we can not for the future reck-
on on more of solar radiation than, if so much as, twenty million times
the amount at present radiated out in a year. It is also to be remarked
that the greatly diminished radiating surface, at a much lower temper-
ature, would give out annually much less heat than the sun in his pres-
ent condition gives. The same considerations led Newcomb to the
conclusion that it is hardly likely that the sun can continue to give
sufficient heat to support life on the earth (such life as we now are
acquainted with, at least) for ten million years from the present
time.
In all our calculations hitherto we have for simplicity taken the
density as uniform throughout, and equal to the true mean density of
the sun, being about 1*4 time the density of water, or about a fourth
of the earths mean density. In reality the density in the upper parts
of the suns mass must be something less than this, and something con-
siderably more than this in the central parts, because of the pressure
in the interior increasing to something enormously great at the center.
If we knew the distribution of interior density, we could easily modify
our calculations accordingly ; but it does not seem probable that the
correction could, with any probable assumption as to the greatness of
the density throughout a considerable proportion of the suns interior,
add more than a few million years to the past of solar heat, and what
could be added to the past must be taken from the future.
In our calculations we have taken Pouillets number for the total
activity of solar radiation, which practically agrees with Herschels.
Forbes* showed the necessity for correcting the mode of allowing for
atmospheric absorption used by his two predecessors in estimating the
total amount of solar radiation, and he was thus led to a number 1*6
* Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xxxvi, 1S44.
