336 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
wearing its ice-crown, can be only approximately guessed. It was,
however, a long time a time compared with which the historic period
dwindles into a few days. During these long ages, the outlets of the
more southern lakes were being sunken by the slow disintegration of
the rock ; and, doubtless, while the ice-king still reigned in the North,
these now sweet vales of Avoca had become dry land, and possibly
the homes of men.
The physical geography of the country is a strong witness to the
truth of this hypothesis. To the south of the drift, where the rivers
have been flowing ever since the continent was above the sea, the lake-
bowls have been drained to their bottoms ; in the southern part of the
drift they have been only partially drained, while to the north they
are still filled with water. This exactly accords with the hypothesis.
It has been argued that the southern half of the continent has been
longer from under the sea, and therefore that the rivers have had
more time for deepening their channels. Exactly the converse is the
truth. The Laurentian Hills are not only the oldest land on the con-
tinent, but, so far as now known, the oldest on the planet.
It may be admitted, without affecting this hypothesis, except it be
to re-enforce it, that the great weight of the accumulated ice must
have sunk the more northern region in some parts below the sea-level,
and that in its gradual melting these rose again, preserving their
equilibrium.
The gradual recession of the ice northward, and therefore the first
uncovering of the southern half of the drift-region, must have taken
place. That this recession was slow, and during a long period of years,
must be true. That during this long time the rivers must have been
deepening their channels and emptying the lake-basins, is so manifest
as to need only to be stated. It we should term that portion of the
drift-region, south of forty-one and a half degrees, sub-glacial, we shall
find the southern part of it wholly drained, the middle and northern
part of it only partially so, the lakes and lakelets increasing in number
and magnitude on approaching its northern boundary.
But the dry lakes of the Pacific slope, what of them ? Their
margins are still intact. True ; but it is because they are dry lakes
that their margins have not been cut through and no rivers connect
them with the sea. These lake-basins, too, were once filled with water;
the rain-supply was not equal to the evaporation, and hence their
gradual drying up.
Another cause for the destruction of lakes, too important to be left
out of the account, is the continuous deposit of sediment on their bot-
toms. While their effluents are continuously sinking their surfaces,
their affluents are no less industriously raising their bottoms by de-
posits from the land. The bottom of Lake Superior at its deepest
place is about three hundred feet below the sea-level ; it can not,
therefore, be wholly drained by its outlet. But its supplying streams
