THE NORTH AMERICAN LAKES. 337
are constantly sifting sediment on its bottom. The St. Louis River
has a large delta, making access to Superior City so difficult as to re-
quire annual dredging. It has been estimated that the sediment yearly
carried to the Gulf by the Mississippi is sufficient to raise a square
mile two hundred and forty-one feet, or equaling a cubic mile in a
little less than twenty-two years. Where the Rhone enters Lake
Geneva, its water is loaded to its capacity with sediment ; where it
leaves the lake, it is crystal clear. This solid matter is being continu-
ously deposited, raising the bottom, while the deepening channel is
sinking the surface. In Indiana and Ohio are numerous shallow lake-
basins, now dry land, their bottoms, level as a floor, with often several
feet of rich alluvium, still bearing testimony to the agencies that have
despoiled them of their waters. The celebrated Walnut Level of the
former State is but an ancient lake-basin, and it is to this deposit of
sediment that it owes its far-famed fertility. It is not improbable
that by the time the Falls of Niagara shall have broken through the
rim of Lake Superior, the sinking surface of the water may reach the
rising bottom only a little above the ocean-level.
But why should the lakes begin to increase in size and frequency
at about the forty-first parallel ? The answer is to be found in the
relative amount of snowfall during the glacial epoch. More snow
falls at the south end of Hudson Bay than at Boothia Felix ; more
at Cape Farewell than at Cape Hatherton ; more at twenty degrees
south of the Arctic Circle than at any parallel north of it. The line
of greatest snowfall, like the isothermal line, is irregularly extended,
depending greatly on the wind-currents. The water of the southern
winds condenses and falls as they reach the colder latitudes. Allow-
ing the line of greatest snowfall to pass through Hudson Bay, it
must have been far to the south of it during the ice period. At or
near the forty-second parallel the glacier probably attained its great-
est thickness. Here it intrenched itself to stay ; and for a very long
time the winter snows must have compensated for the summer thaws.
While, therefore, that part of the drift-region lying farther to the
south was uncovered, and the water-courses actively at work digging
out their beds and draining the land, the whole country to the north
was a field of ice. Simultaneously the ice and the line of greatest
snowfall receded northward. As the days greatest heat is not when
the sun is on the meridian, but an hour or two later ; as the summers
greatest heat is not when the sun is at its greatest altitude, but a
month or two later ; so it is probable that the highest average tem-
perature has not yet been reached, and that the line of greatest snow-
fall is still receding toward the poles. This fact, if it be one, must
presage for Arctic explorers wider and more open fields of work a
thousand years hence than to-day.
The cause of the saltness of some American lakes is too patent to
require many words of explanation. It is probable that, when the
TOL. XXXI. 22
