LAWSUIT OR LEGACY. 339
Many thousands perhaps millions of years before man was on
the earth, the Laurentian Hills were raised above the dark waters,
their origin dating back to the very dawn of life on the planet.
Both the primordial continent and the primordial life were the
prophets this of the higher orders of organism, and that of the con-
tinents and islands yet to be. This original continent has held its
own. It took the initial in the building up of North America. Its
two lines of direction had the form of a right angle, one projecting
northeastward and the other northwestward.
This is the normal plan. It is the structural arrangement, not of
this continent only, but of all continents ; and the lake-depressions,
conforming to the general system, are an additional witness to the
common underlying laws and forces of which the earth itself is a
grand phenomenon.
LAWSUIT OR LEGACY.
By H. H. GAEDENEK.
WITHIN the past twenty years the business of life-insurance has
grown with such wonderful rapidity, and changed so radically
in its methods and contracts, that it is to-day as unlike its old self as
the railway-car is unlike the stage-coach.
The old life-insurance contract undertook to define burglary, riot,
and rebellion, and the companies held themselves free from obligations
deliberately assumed, if the other party to the contract did not con-
form to the rules of conduct laid down under their definition and re-
quirements. Nowhere else in the history of large business organiza-
tions has the debtor regulated his obligation by the morals of his
creditor and liquidated his debt by acknowledging its existence, and
then simply charging moral obliquity on the part of said creditor as
the reason for not paying it.
If A owes B fifty dollars, and B is known to be a thief or a mur-
derer, it does not liquidate As debt to simply show that fact. But
life-insurance companies have held, and some of them still claim, the
right to so indemnify creditors, and, strange to say, they have been
able to conduct business on that basis. They have even gone further,
and said that a debt to Bs heirs is forfeited in like manner thus
making the destruction of a mans reputation after his death of pe-
cuniary advantage to the company. They have been enabled to do
this because many men do not read the insurance contract which they
sign, and hence have no idea of its complicated and, in many cases,
unfair nature. If men insisted upon understanding the contract before
they sign it, as they do in other business, the more unfair features
would necessarily disappear from all insurance contracts.
If I deposit a thousand dollars in a bank, it is my money I can
