LAWSUIT OR LEGACY. 341
promised, and hundreds of heart-aches and unjust suspicions and
fears about the dead, which can never be corrected, are aroused in
sorrowing but loving breasts by this method of doing business. It
is, of course, of the utmost importance that every precaution be taken
by life-insurance companies to protect the funds held by them, in trust
for others, against fraud and trickery. But with the agent, the ex-
amining physician, the medical directors, and the inspectors all em-
ployed by, and answerable to, the company represented, if fraud is
committed in getting into the company, one or all of these paid
officers must almost, of necessity, be party to that fraud. With all
these safeguards in the hands of the company, if a man is accepted as
a good risk, if he pays his premiums, surely his family has the right
to expect a legacy and not a lawsuit, nor a compromise which
must cast reproach on the dead.
If it were not for the enormous value and benefits of this method
of making provision for his family, surely no man in his senses would
ever have risked would not risk to-day signing a contract which
gives the other interested party not only an absolute fixed sum of his
money, year by year, but also reserves to itself the right to investi-
gate and construe his actions and motives after he is unable to contest
its verdict.
And not only this, but upon the finding of some slight, wholly im-
material flaw in his statements (which it failed to find when he was
in the hands of its agents and officers), in some companies he not only
forfeits the right of his heirs to their purchased inheritance, but the
company retains his money which he has paid in besides ! This is
surely a dangerous contract for any man to sign. It is placing a
temptation and a power in the hands of a corporation that it has never
yet been in the nature of corporations not to abuse.
If any statement in this application is in any respect untrue, it
voids the policy, and all payments which shall have been made revert
to the company, gives a wide field and doubtful motive of action
when it is remembered that many of the questions are of such a nature
that not one man in a thousand could be absolutely sure that he knew
the correct reply.
At what age did your grandparents die ? All four of them.
How many men are sure that they can answer that question correctly ?
Of what did each one die ? You do not know. You have a gen-
eral idea. You express it. You pay your premiums ten years. You
die (one doctor says of consumption another says of blood-poison);
the company finds some old person who says your grandmother on
your fathers side died of the same thing, and there is a rumor that
a long-forgotten (or never-known) country cousin also had it.
The company sends a representative to the widow. He assures
her (and by the very terms of the contract, signed by the dead hus-
band, he is right and she is helpless) that they can refuse to pay a
