342 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cent ; that her husband got his policy by fraud although no indi-
cation of his physical disorder appeared to any of the numerous offi-
cers employed by the company for its own protection, when he made
his application, and by geueral reports he was (and believed himself to
be) a sound man.
He assures her that they want to be generous rather than just, and
if she will sign a release, or compromise, she will be given a small
part of the sum named in the policy. He makes her feel the necessity
of keeping this bargain a secret, lest other policy-holders object to the
company paying anything on the life of one who attempted a fraud
upon them ! He impresses upon her that in case of contest she could
get absolutely nothing ; that she is poor, and the company is rich
and strong ; and if he fails to arouse her gratitude for his generosity
in offering to pay her anything whatever, he usually succeeds in in-
timidating her in her poverty and distress. A sparrow in the hand is
worth more than an eagle on Mount Washington to a widow with a
hungry family, especially if the eagle has successfully maimed his pur-
suer in the beginning of the flight.
The company knows this. The widow knows it. The conclusion
is therefore certain before the premises are stated, and the compro-
mise is made or the claim quietly dropped. It is easy to say that a
man died of some bad habit unknown to his family, and his family
would rather forego their claim than drag into light, or into disgrace,
the memory of the loved dead. All this is well understood by those
on the inside, and by thousands of sad hearts that dare not speak.
Is there no remedy for all this ? Is there no way that a useful and
powerful business can be rid of features which make it both dangerous
and ghoulish ?
The recent steps taken by the best companies are undoubtedly in
the right direction, as those still using the old forms of contract will
sooner or later learn. But there is room yet for improvement even in
the best forms written to-day. The fairest insurance contract written
still has room for improvement.
Is there no way to protect these great corporations against the
frauds of individuals, and at the same time protect the individual
against the frauds of the corporations ?
Must life-insurance contracts be absolutely one-sided, and that be
the side of the strong against the weak ; the guarded against the
unguarded ; the living against the dead ? It seems to me that this is
wholly unnecessary. A life-insurance company which has the agents,
the doctors, the medical directors, and inspectors all on its side can
well afford to offer a fair field a plain, fair contract to its patrons,
and then pay its debts like any other debtor when its obligation falls
due. If it can not find out within a year (with all the machinery in
its own hands), and while the man is alive, that he is a bad risk, it is
too late to make the discovery after he is dead. If the indications are
