LAWSUIT OB LEGACY. 343
sufficiently in his favor for them to accept his money from year to
year while he lives, they are sufficiently favorable to him for his family
to receive the companys money when he has died.
Life-insurance is too valuable and too necessary a means of pro-
vision for the family for it to be overlaid with abuses that make many
men hesitate to avail themselves of its benefits ; and which put a
power for evil into strong hands, and make temptation to do wrong
inevitable and constant.
It is said by some, whose attention has been called to this im-
portant subject, that the form of contract does not so much matter,
since almost any court or jury will decide a suit against the com-
pany, and in favor of the family, in any event. This is taking it
for granted that the heirs are in position, and are willing, to bring
suit, and risk the reputation of the dead as well as the financial
drain. But, as a matter of fact, this is not true nor is it desirable
that it should be. The rights of these corporations should be as
jealously guarded by our courts as the rights of the individual ; and
perverted justice is a dangerous tool to handle. The man who signs
an oppressive contract depending upon a court to nullify it after he is
dead, is clinging to a rope of sand. The letter of the bond is what
the court is bound to enforce, and every man should be sure that he
signs only such as shall deal fairly with his heirs on that basis.
The following extract is from the decision of the Court of Ap-
peals in the famous D wight case, which is so recently decided as to
most forcibly illustrate this point :
If an insurance policy in plain and unambiguous language makes
the observance of an apparently immaterial requirement the condition
of a valid contract, neither courts nor juries have the right to disregard
it or to construct, by implication or otherwise, a new contract in the
place of that deliberately made by the parties. . . . Such contracts
are open to construction, . . . but are subject to it only when, upon
the face of the instrument, it appears that its meaning is doubtful
or its language ambiguous or uncertain. . . .
An elementary writer says: Indeed, the very idea and purpose
of construction imply a previous uncertainty as to the meaning of a
contract, for when this is clear and unambiguous there is no room
for construction and nothing for construction to do.
For this reason the Court of Appeals cited as the ground, and
the only ground, for its decision against the widow, the following
clause from the policy of the contesting company :
This policy is issued, and the same is accepted by the said assured,
upon the following express conditions and agreements : That the same
6hall cease and be null and void and of no effect . . . if the representa-
tions made in the application for this policy, upon the faith of which
this contract is made, shall be found in any respect untrue.
Colonel D wight was in the habit of making large business vent-
