2 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
times theirs. Forty years later Langley,* in an excellently worked out
consideration of the whole question of absorption by our atmosphere,
of radiant heat of all wave-lengths, accepts and confirms Forbess rea-
soning, and by fresh observations in very favorable circumstances on
Mount Whitney, 15,000 feet above the sea-level, finds a number a little
greater still than Forbes (1*7, instead of Forbess 1*6, times Pouillets
number). Thus Langleys number expressing the quantity of heat
radiated per second of time from each square centimetre of the suns
surface corresponds to 133,000 horse-power per square metre, instead
of the 78,000 horse-power which we have taken, and diminishes each
of our times in the ratio of 1 to 17. Thus, instead of Helraholtzs
twenty million years, which was founded ou Pouillets estimate, we
have only twelve millions, and similarly with all our other time-reck-
onings based on Pouillets results. In the circumstances, and taking
fully into account all possibilities of greater density in the suns inte-
rior, and of greater or less activity of radiation in past ages, it would,
I think, be exceedingly rash to assume as probable anything more than
twenty million years of the suns light in the past history of the earth,
or to reckon on more than five or six million years of sunlight for time
to come.
But now we come to the most interesting part of our subject the
early history of the sun. Five or ten million years ago he may have
been about double his present diameter and an eighth of his present
mean density, or *175 of the density of water ; but we can not, with
any probability of argument or speculation, go on continuously much
beyond that. We can not, however, help asking the question, What
was the condition of the suns matter before it came together and be-
came hot? It may have been two cool solid masses, which collided
with the velocity due to their mutual gravitation ; or, but with enor-
mously less of probability, it may have been two masses colliding with
velocities considerably greater than the velocities due to mutual gravi-
tation. This last supposition implies that, calling the two bodies A
and B for brevity, the motion of the center of inertia of B relatively
to A must, when the distances between them was great, have been
directed with great exactness to pass through the center of inertia of
A ; such great exactness that the rotational momentum after collision
was of proper amount to let the sun have his present rotational period
when shrunk to his present dimensions. This exceedingly exact aim-
ing of the one body at the other, so to speak, is, on the dry theory of
probability, exceedingly improbable. On the other hand, there is cer-
tainty that the two bodies A and B at rest in space if left to them-
selves, undisturbed by other bodies and only influenced by their mutual
gravitation, shall collide with direct impact, and therefore with no
motion of their center of inertia, and no rotational momentum of the
* On the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy, American Journal of Science,
vol. xxv, March, 18S3.
