344 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ures. Several times, when he had done so, he had taken heavy amounts
of life-insurance, so that in case of the failure of his undertakings, and
his own death before he could regain his financial feet, his family-
would not suffer. On previous occasions he had dropped the greater
part of his insurance as soon as his business ventures had terminated
successfully. This is not an uncommon thing for rich or speculative
men to do.
In 1878 Colonel Dwight died, with an insurance on his life of about
$265,000, some of which lie had carried for years ; but a large part of
it had been recently taken for the reasons above stated, and as he had
done before under similar circumstances. Fifty thousand of this sum
was in old and new policies against one company.
This company paid at once, thus giving the widow means to fight
for her claims against the other companies. In a short time one of
the other companies, against which she had a small claim of $5,000,
also paid. The other nineteen companies contested. The widow em-
ployed Senator Conkling, and the fight has been the hardest, the bit-
terest, and the most ghoulish insurance contest ever had in this
country ; and finally the companies have won in the Court of Appeals
on a purely technical point, after having dug Colonel Dwights body
up several times, in the effort to prove that he was poisoned, that
he hung himself, and that he was not dead at all ! They failed ut-
terly to prove any material cause of contest ; but they finally won on
the ground that, in answering a question in the application for in-
surance, Colonel Dwight did not state that he had ever engaged in the
liquor business, whereas it had been known that he had owned a hotel
where liquor was sold.
Now, when it is remembered that at one time these companies
tried to prove that Colonel Dwight had committed suicide, but that
they never had any grounds upon which to claim that he had died of
intemperance, the purely technical grounds for the decision of the
Court of Appeals is apparent. Ninety-nine policies out of a hundred
could be contested on such ground as that ; and so long as insurance
contracts retain these unreasonable and oppressive features, no man
can be sure that he is not leaving a lawsuit and bitter sorrow to his
family, and worst of all a blasted reputation for himself, when he ap-
plies for insurance under such a form.
An officer of one of the companies was heard to boast of the fact,
but a few days ago, that his company had spent nearly ten times the
amount of the claim against it in this Dwight contest ! This is econ-
omy indeed ! Whose money was thus spent ? The policy-holders.
For what ? To defeat one of the policy-holders in a contest for a
claim no doubt as honest as any one of the others will present in his
turn.
But suppose that this was not an honest claim ; suppose that Colo-
nel Dwight was not a good risk, is it not a rather suggestive indi-
