AMONG THE THOUSAND ISLANDS. 349
The Princess Louise drew up at the rough log wharf, choked with im-
mense piles of white-pine planks lumber, as the American language
gracefully phrases it ; and even as we reached the tiny quay we saw
our hostess in her row-boat, already pulling round a granite bluff
from her retreat to meet us. By private arrangement with the cap-
tain, indeed so sweetly simple and domestic is life in these new coun-
tries the engineer scooted, or blew, his whistle three times as he
passed the lighthouse whenever he had visitors on board for our
friends chalet. The moment the scoot is heard on the cliff, the
chalet folks put out their boat at once, and row round to the landing-
place to take up their visitors without delay on arrival.
It is one of the charms of our vast England that here a man is lost
in the crowd. The individual withers (much to the advantage of his
own comfoit), and the world is more and moie. You can walk along
the streets of London any day with the serene consciousness that no-
body knows you or cares a pin about you, that to all the passers-by
you are merely another nameless passer-by, that your personality is
wholly merged in the recognition of your abstract existence as a single
unit of assorted humanity. That, I say, gives a man a delightful
sense of breadth and freedom. You feel yourself planted, as the in-
imitable Prince Florestan aptly phrases it, at the strategic center of
the universe, for so I may be allowed to style Rupert Street, with
your individuality wholly obliterated, in the general consciousness of
our common human citizenship. But once in a while, as an incident
of a summer holiday, it is not wholly unpleasant, by way of contrast,
to find ones self for a time in such a narrower world of mutual recog-
nition, where the purser knows immediately you are going to stop with
your friends in their summer quarters, and gives notice to the engineer
to blow the whistle thrice accordingly as you pass the chalet where
they presently abide. A certain patriarchal colonial note in it all
attracts ones not unfavorable attention. If you were a duke in Eng-
land, the constituted authorities would refuse to whistle for you ; it is
agreeable now and again to feel yourself a duke, and to be recognized
and whistled for with more than ducal consideration. I much prefer
it to the South Coast Railway style, where my urbane inquiry, Is
this the train for Brighton, please ? meets with the crushing response
from guard or porter, All right ! third class forward !
We disembarked from the Princess Louise, and took our seats in
the chalet row-boat. Our hostess pulled ; politeness compelled me to
offer myself as an unworthy substitute, but, when she firmly declined
to surrender the sculls, I felt a secret twinge of satisfaction, for though
its one thing to pilot a dingey from Oxford to Sandford Lasher, its
quite another thing to pull a heavy hen-coop against the big waves of
the full St. Lawrence on a windy evening. Canadian ladies think
nothing of a mile or two of rowing, or of a stiff breeze ; and modesty
recognized the palpable fact that the sculls were in far more compe-
