350 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tent hands. Practice makes perfect, however ; and a few weeks in
Canada soon brought back to me the old knack of rowing with thole-
pins instead of rowlocks, though to the last the instinctive tendency
to drop the wrist in the vain effort to feather feathering, of course,
is impossible with the pins persisted always, much to my discomfiture.
The chalet, whither we were bound, stands a little removed from
Gananoque village, in wild grounds all of its own, raised high among
the woods, on top of a sheer cliff, beneath whose frowning crags we
rowed into a little bay or haven, protected by a bold granite headland
from the sea, that rolled high upon the open river. There we pulled
up beside the floating wooden landing-stage, and disembarked on the
grounds of Mossbank. (The real name was not Mossbank, but some-
thing very much prettier and more appropriate, only my friends sol-
emn adjurations have bound me down by inviolable promise not to
reveal either its local habitation or its name too openly to the profane
vulgar, or even, which is quite another matter, to the candid reader of
this present magazine.) I forget how many steps, partly wooden, and
partly cut into the solid granite of the headland, led up the face of
the perpendicular cliff from the waters edge to the chalet platform.
I was told at the time something like one hundred and ninety, I
fancy ; but the beautiful picture of that calm bay, and the hanging
woods, and the maiden-hair fern springing in wild luxuriance from the
clefts of the rock, and the bearberry clambering over the ice-worn
bosses, and the wild sarsaparilla raising its green berries on its tall,
bare stalk, and all the thousand and one exquisite details of frond and
foliage, and fruit and flower, distracted my attention from arithmetical
facts, gradational or otherwise, and left me only eyes and mind for the
beautiful scene that unrolled itself slowly, step by step, before me.
At the summit, on a rounded, rocky plateau of bare granite, over-
grown in places by clambering shrubs and trailing Western creepers,
the chalet itself fronted the Sunset Islands, and looked down from its
aerial perch upon the intricate maze of russet land and purple water.
To the right lay the lighthouses and the islands in their neighborhood ;
in front, one islet behind another stood massed in view, backed up by
the low hills of the New York shore ; to the left, the high cliff closed in
the sight, with a single rocky island rising full in prospect, and the river
stretching inimitably onward, broken by endless tiny archipelagoes,
in the direction of the Cornwall Rapids. For the chalet itself, how
shall I fitly describe it ? A more charming summer-house was never
devised for human habitation. Being meant for midsummer use alone,
warmth and snugness were left wholly out of consideration ; all the
stress was laid upon coolness and breeziness in the sweltering heat of
Canadian August. Inside and out, the chalet was scrupulously of
wood, wooden ; it was built of the native white pine, polished both
sides, one thickness of boards only, and all the constructional details
within and without were plainly visible to the naked eye in a way that
