AMONG THE THOUSAND ISLANDS. 351
would have delighted the honest souls of Scott and Fergusson. The
inner walls showed the polished framework (like a good church-roof)
that supported the single layer of planks, unpapered, and otherwise
undisfigured ; the polished beams and joists overhead bore the weight
of the boards that formed at once the ceiling of the drawing-room and
the floor of the neat little bedrooms up-stairs. Thus every room had
six sides of polished light-brown pine-wood floor, ceiling, and four
walls. A few delicate Oriental rugs and native fur-skins lay daintily
upon the waxed floor ; etchings and sketches hung upon the walls ;
light and graceful summer-like furniture filled up the rooms ; but other-
wise all was the clean wooden framework, and delightfully cool and
appropriate it looked. Further to carry out the summer effect of the
whole, the three reception-rooms on the ground-floor, instead of being
jealously partitioned off from one another with the stereotyped for-
mality of urban life, were thrown into one by broad archways, where
folding-doors might have been, but were not, so giving an air of room-
iness and freedom to drawing-room, dining-room, and library alike,
which was especially grateful in hot Canadian noontides. With doors
and windows flung wide open, and roses and honeysuckles peeping in
from the richly festooned pillars of the veranda, can one imagine a
more delightful spot in which to spend a cloudless summer ?
For, to complete the charm, a veranda ran round the house below,
with broad shade and comfortable rocking-chairs, and creepers clam-
bered up the posts around, making, as it were, a rustic frame for the
exquisite picture of river and islands that lay beyond. Up-stairs,
each bedroom opens out onto a continuous balcony, formed by the roof
of the veranda, and running round the whole chalet, Swiss or Norwe-
gian fashion, with a wood- work balustrade, overgrown with lithe sprays
of native climbers. The view from the balcony was even finer than
that from the platform of rock on which the house stood ; it opened
up yet wider vistas of the river, and gave a broader prospect over the
blue hills of the dim American shore beyond.
I have been thus particular in describing the house at Mossbank,
because it may be taken as a fair sample of the delicious little summer
cottages in which Americans and Canadians lounge away the sultry
months of the transatlantic season. Our hostess, indeed, who com-
bines the artists eye with the poets, had been peculiarly happy in her
choice of a site : Mossbank stood on, by far, the prettiest point we
saw anywhere among those sixteen hundred and ninety-two fairy-like
islands ; but almost all the cottages we visited were picturesque and
appropriate to their use and situation, though none other, perhaps, was
quite so graceful in its design, or so dainty in its appointments, as the
one in which we were fortunate enough to fix our headquarters.
Dozens of such cottages now stud the prettiest parts of the various
channels, and it is locally fashionable to run them down as disfiguring
and modernizing a beautiful piece of rustic wild scenery. For my own
