352 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
part, though I have known the islands intimately from childhood up-
ward, and can remember them when their only inhabitants were minks
and musquash, and their staple products blueberries and wild-flowers,
I do not think the quaint little cottages and the wooden bungalows
are anything other (in most cases) than improvements to the district.
And I am rather a Puritan, too, in this matter of wildness. I hate the
intrusive foot of civilization. But civilization, as it shows itself among
the Thousand Islands, is not intrusive ; it rather heightens than de-
tracts from the total impression. By themselves, the islands tend
toward sameness ; a graceful chalet, a light wooden toy farm-house, a
white, gleaming lighthouse, judiciously planted on a jutting height,
and well embowered in spruce-fir and maples, give individuality and
distinctiveness to the picture, and supply the landscape with what it
otherwise sadly lacks points de repere in the tangled maze of wood
and water. Every view is all the better for an occasional landmark ;
the wildest nature is somewhat improved by a stray token of mans
occupancy and the possibility of intercourse with the mass of hu-
manity.
For, except the cottages, the islands have been mostly left by the
common good taste of their owners and occupiers in their native wild-
ness of rock and foliage. No foolish attempts have anywhere been
made at the outrage known as landscape-gardening : the granite crags
and the festoons of wild-vine or Yirginia-creeper have been wisely re-
tained in Gods own handywork. The grounds of Mossbank, in par-
ticular, were especially charming. In front of the house the bare
platform of rounded granite gave place here and there to irregular
patches of shallow greensward, in which a few bright flowers grew as
if naturally, while native shrubs found a firm foothold in the deep
dikes weathered at joints in the solid rock. All round stretched rich
Canadian woodland, carpeted with undergrowth of blueberry and
poison-ivy. From the edge of the cliff, which toppled over sheer I
know not how many hundred feet into the river below, one looked
down into pellucid depths of limpid water, where even from so great
a height the bass and pickerel might be distinctly descried waving
their restless fins against the black background of rock at the bottom.
Everywhere around lay delicious spots where one might fling ones self
at ones ease on the smooth gneiss, almost as polished as if by a lapi-
darys wheel, and pick sweet flowers from the crannies between flow-
ers of that beautiful exotic Canadian woodland type, so different from
our weedy European pattern.
On one side, a little back of the chalet (which could practically be
approached by water only), lay a deep ravine whose bottom was filled
with rich peat-mold, the home of innumerable exquisite ferns, a para-
dise for the botanist, pregnant with hints as to Natures ways among
the flowers and insects. I could linger here for hours discoursing of
the strange and lovely plants that grew profusely in that shaded dell,
