THE SUNS HEAT. 27
compound body after the collision. Thus we see that the dry proba-
bility of collision between two of a vast number of mutually attracting
bodies widely scattered through space is much greater if the bodies be
all given at rest, than if they be given moving in any random directions
and with any velocities considerable in comparison with the velocities
which they would acquire in falling from rest into collision. In this
connection it is most interesting to know from stellar astronomy, aided
so splendidly as it has recently been by the spectroscope, that the rela-
tive motions of the visible stars and our sun are generally very small
in comparison with the velocity (G12 kilometres per second) a body
would acquire in falling into the sun, and are comparable with the
moderate little velocity (29*5 kilometres per second) of the earth in
her orbit round the sun.
To fix the ideas, think of two cool solid globes, each of the same
mean density as the earth, and of half the suns diameter, given at rest,
or nearly at rest, at a distance asunder equal to twice the earths dis-
tance from the sun. They will fall together and collide in half a year.
The collision will last for a few hours, in the course of which they will
be transformed into a violently agitated incandescent fluid mass, with
about eighteen million (according to the Pouillet-IIelmholtz reckoning,
of twenty million) years heat ready made in it, and swelled out by
this heat to possibly one and a half time, or two, or three, or four
times, the suns present diameter. If instead of being at rest initially
they had had a transverse relative velocity of 1*42 kilometres per
second, they would just escape collision, and would revolve in equal
ellipses in a period of one year round the center of inertia, just graz-
ing one anothers surfaces every time they come round to the nearest
points of their orbits.
If the initial transverse component of relative velocity be less than,
but not much less than, 1*42 kilometre per second, there will be a
violent grazing collision, and two bright suns, solid globes bathed in
flaming fluid, will come into existence in the course of a few hours, and
will commence revolving round their common center of inertia in long
elliptic orbits in a period of a little less than a year. The quasi-tided
interaction will diminish the eccentricities of their orbits ; and if con-
tinued long enough will cause the two to revolve in circular orbits
round their center of inertia with a distance between their surfaces
equal to 644 of the diameter of each.
If the initial transverse component relative velocity of the two
bodies were just sixty-eight metres per second, the moment of momen-
tum, the same before and after collision, would be just equal to that of
the solar system, of which seventeen eighteenths is Jupiters and one
eighteenth the suns ; the other bodies of the system being not worth
considering in the account. Fragments of superficially melted solid,
or splashes of fluid, sent flying away from the main compound mass
could not possibly by tidal action or other resistance get into the actual
