HUMAN BRAIN-WEIGHTS. 357
25*21 grammes less than the Roumani. The South Slavonian brains
are somewhat heavier than the Italian, but lighter than any of the
other peoples. One third of the Austrian Empire is peopled by Ger-
mans, descended from the natives of Austria proper. The Magyars
are Asiatics of the Mongolian race. The South Slavonians occupy the
most southern part of the empire, along the low-lying lands of the
Danube, which accounts for the small size of their brains ; while the
Italians are descended from the inhabitants of a still warmer region ;
all which goes to confirm the theory we have already announced,
that the smallest brains belong to the warmest climates. On com-
paring the peoples of the four families represented here, continues
Dr. Wiesbach, we find that the Slavonic family possess the largest
encephalon, the Romanic the smallest ; and that the intermediate
Magyars possess a more weighty encephalon than the Germans, which
are nearly equal to the Romanic stock.
In a recently-published work Professor Bischoff, an eminent anato-
mist at Munich, gives the average brain-weight of males as forty-eight
ounces (Nature, January 20, 1881) after weighing five hundred and
fifty-nine subjects, the obvious reason for the discrepancy between
him and the authors above mentioned being the fact that Munich,
situated in the southern part of Germany, is warmer than either Edin-
burgh or New York.
Dr. Tiedemann, of Heidelberg, on the Alpine plateau of the Rhine
in Germany, where it is far colder than Edinburgh in winter, gave the
average male brain-weight, for the whole of life above puberty, as 53-25
ounces. Sir W. Hamilton, of Edinburgh, estimated the average adult
brain, without distinction of health or disease, at 48*25 ounces, for the
whole of life. In London, Dr. Sims found it 46*25 ounces. Luschka
gives 50*2 ounces as the average weight of a mans brain ; Krause
makes it 55*4 ounces, according to an article in the Morning
Herald, Sydney, Australia.
The above averages differ, from several causes. Dr. Tiedemanns
observations were limited to fifty-two subjects, and included both sexes,
but excluded negroes and very aged persons. Sir W. Hamilton had
sixty or seventy of both sexes ; Dr. Sims, two hundred and twenty ;
and Dr. Clendinning still more than Dr. Sims, whose patients were
largely among the aged, and those afflicted with long-standing disease.
Dr. Clendinning, in the Croonian Lectures, gives the following brain-
weights from male subjects, which show that the male encephalon
loses more than an ounce every ten years after it is fully grown :
15 to 30 years 50 - 75 oz.
30 to 50 49-66 oz.
50 to 70 47-1 oz.
70 to 100 415 oz.
Several other eminent anatomists have made similar exhibits
brain-weight decreasing as the intellectual power increases. It is
