360 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to give a rough sketch of the present state of knowledge in this com-
plicated subject.
Although history abounds with more or less complete accounts of
earthquakes, it is remarkable that hardly ten years have yet elapsed
since an accurate record was first obtained of what actually occurs
during an earthquake. The combination of circumstances is curious,
by which a knot of Scotch students, working in Japan, has secured so
considerable an advance in seismology. The incessant but usually
non-destructive earthquakes by which Japan is visited, the strange
Japanese renaissance, and the importation of foreign professors, thor-
oughly trained at the Scotch universities in an accurate perception of
mechanical principles, are the three factors which have co-operated to
bring about this result.
The Scoto- Japanese professors, of whom the most eminent are
Ewing, Gray, and Milne, have studied their subject with admirable
persistence, and have by their ingenuity placed seismologists in pos-
session of instruments by which the motion of the ground during an
earthquake is recorded on an accurate scale of time. Such instruments
are called seismographs, or recording seismometers. During an earth-
quake the ground and all that is fixed to it move together, and at first
sight it seems impossible to get anything to stay still during the vibra-
tion. An exact description of a scientific instrument would be out of
place here, but a general notion of these seismographs may be easily
grasped.
The horizontal pendulum of Zollner, and a suggestion of Chaplin
(also a professor in Japan), are the sources from which the horizontal
pendulum seismograph of Ewing originated. The principles accord-
ing to which it is constructed may be explained as follows : If we con-
sider an open door which can swing on its hinges, and imagine that a
sudden horizontal movement is given to the door-post, at right angles
to the position in which the door is hanging, then it is clear that the
outer edge of the door will begin to move with a sort of recoil in the
direction opposite to that of the movement imparted to the door-post.
Since the door-post moves in one direction, while the edge of the door
recoils, somewhere in the door there is a vertical line which remains
still. The exact position of this line depends on the proportion which
the amount of the recoil of the outer edge bears to the direct motion
of the door-post. Now, if the sudden movement is imparted to the
door-post by means of the floor to which it is attached, it is clear that
a pencil attached to the door at this vertical line will write on the floor
the displacement of the door-post, notwithstanding that the floor has
moved. If next we suppose that there are two such doors hanging at
right angles to one another from the same door-post, and that a sudden
horizontal movement in any direction is given to the floor, each pencil
will write on the floor that part of the movement which was at right
angles to its door. Lastly, if the floor or surface on which the record
