EARTHQUAKES. 361
is written is kept moving uniformly by clock-work, we obtain also a
register in time as well as space.
But in an earthquake the surface of the earth undergoes also a ver-
tical movement which has to be recorded. The principle by which an
instrument may be constructed to attain this end is as follows : If a
weight hangs by a long, elastic cord, so that when set dancing up and
down it oscillates very slowly, then, when a sudden jerk is given to the
point of support, the weight will for the moment stand almost station-
ary, and a pencil attached to it may write its record on a surface fast-
ened to the part jerked. This idea has been utilized in the construction
of a vertical seismograph, but various important modifications have
been introduced for the purpose of annulling the spontaneous dance
of the weight after the shock has occurred.*
It will undoubtedly serve to give an impulse to this science that
henceforth the intending observer need not waste time in devising and
constructing instruments, but can purchase the complete equipment of
a seismological observatory, as recommended by Ewing, and may begin
work at once.
Many other instruments besides these have been used for the obser-
vation of earthquakes, and among the best are those of Bertelli, Rossi,
and Palmieri. An instrument which tells only that there has been a
shock, without giving a record of the nature of the movement, is called
a seismoscope. Some of the Italian instruments are seismoscopes,
which, however, give an approximate idea of the severity and direc-
tion of the vibration, and others claim to be accurate seismographs or
seismometers. But I do not think that any of them can compete with
the instruments described in outline above.
And what do recording instruments tell us of the actual occurrences
during an earthquake ?
They show, writes Ewing,f that, as observed at a station on
the surface of the earth, an earthquake consists of a very large num-
ber of successive vibrations in some cases as many as three hundred
have been distinctly registered. They are irregular both in period and
amplitude, and the amplitude does not exceed a few millimetres (a
millimetre is one twenty-fifth of an inch), even when the earthquake
is of sufficient severity to throw down chimneys and crack walls, while
in many instances the greatest motion is no more than the fraction of
a millimetre. The periods of the principal motions are usually from
half a second to a second, but . . . the early part of the disturbance
often contains vibrations of much greater frequency. The earth-
quake generally begins and always ends very gradually, and it is a
* I make no attempt to apportion the credit among the several inventors of these in-
struments. The men mentioned have played the leading parts, and the work of all seems
to be thorough and sound.
f Memoirs of the Science Department of the University of Tokio, No. 9, 1883,
p. 13.
