362
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
w
noteworthy fact that there is in general no one motion standing out
from the rest as greatly larger than those which precede and follow it.
The direction of motion varies irregularly during the disturbance so
much so, that in a protracted shock the horizontal movements at a sin-
gle station occur in all possible azimuths (that is to say, to all points
of the compass). The duration, that is to say the time, during which
the shaking lasts at any one point is rarely less than one minute, often
two or three, and in one case in the writers experience was as much as
twelve minutes.
The horizontal path pursued, in an actual earthquake at Tokio, on
March 8, 1881, by the part of the recording instrument which was fixed
to the ground, is shown in the an-
nexed figure.* It is magnified
six fold, and the time occupied
from the beginning to the end of
this part of the vibration was
three seconds. This earthquake,
although alarming, did no dam-
age except to crack a few walls.
It is obvious that when the
motion is so complicated, the im-
pressions of people present go for
little as compared with an auto-
matic record. Observers often differ widely among themselves as to
what was the direction of the prevailing oscillation, and the magnitude
of the displacement of the ground is generally much exaggerated. It is
true that in some of the great historic earthquakes the displacements
are supposed to have been considerable ; for example, according to
Mallet, in the Neapolitan shock of 1857 it amounted to a foot, and
Abella assigns six feet as the amplitude in the Manila earthquake of
1881. But, without contesting the accuracy of these estimates, it is
safe to say that such displacements are very rare, for, as proved by
automatic seismographs, when the motion is as much as a quarter of
an inch, brick and 6tone chimneys are genei-ally shattered.
Every railway-traveler knows that it is not the steady speed, but
the starting and stopping, which jars him ; that is to say, it is change
of velocity by which he is shaken. The misconception of an observer
in an earthquake arises from the fact that the sensation of being tossed
about comes from the change of velocity to which he is subjected,
rather than from the extent of his displacement. Now, the greatest
change per second of velocity may be considerable in a vibration,
while the amplitude is small.
The force of gravity is the most familiar example of a change per
second of velocity, for in each second the velocity of a falling body is
augmented by a velocity of thirty-two feet a second. Ewing appears
f Memoirs of the Science Department of the University of Tokio, No. 9, 1883, p. 58.
