EAR THQ UAKES. 363
to have been the first to think of comparing the greatest change per
second of velocity in an earthquake with gravity. Thus at Tokio,
on March 11, 1882, walls were cracked and chimneys knocked over,
and in this shock the greatest change per second of velocity may be
expressed by the phrase one thirty-fifth of gravity ; in other words,
the greatest change per second of velocity was ff of a foot per second.
This conclusion enables us also to illustrate the mechanical conse-
quences of the shock in another way ; for if a wall thirty-five feet
high leans over, so that the top brick projects a foot beyond the bot-
tom brick, the forces tending to upset the wall are the same as those
which occurred in this earthquake.
No great shock has ever yet been recorded by automatic instru-
ments, and it is not unlikely that in these great disasters the instru-
ments would be thrown out of gear, and no record would be obtained.
Thus, earthquakes which only work a moderate amount of destruction
are the most favorable for scientific operation.
Since the oscillations at any one spot are usually in all sorts of di-
rections, it is impossible, from observation at a single place, to form a
sound opinion as to position of the origin of the disturbance. Much
information useful for the study of vibrations and of the laws of their
decrease with increasing distance, has resulted from a laborious series
of experiments made by Milne at Tokio. Artificial earthquakes were
produced by the explosion of gun-cotton in holes in the ground, and
by the fall of heavy weights, and the records at various distances from
the origin were obtained.
From theoretical considerations, confirmed by these experiments,
it is established that earthquake-waves consist of oscillations of two
kinds, namely, waves or vibrations of compression, and of distortion.
In the first kind the motion of each particle of the ground is to and
fro in the direction in which the wave is traveling ; and in the second
kind the excursions are at right angles to the direction of wave-propa-
gation. As the former vibrations travel more rapidly than the latter,
all the compressional waves may have passed a given station before
the arrival of the distortional waves, and thus the shock may be appar-
ently duplicated. Or, nearer to the origin, the two series will overlap,
and a complex movement ensues, such as that exhibited in the figure
above. The phenomena are further complicated by frequent reflections
and refractions, as the wave passes from one geological stratum to
another. The rate at which these waves travel depends on the nature
of the rock through which the movement passes ; velocities ranging
from a mile per second to five miles per second are usual.
The destructive effects of earthquakes on buildings are notorious,
and it is unnecessary to describe them here. By an examination of
ruined buildings a competent observer is often able to obtain a good
deal of information as to the nature of the shock. Thus Mallet visited
the towns destroyed by the Neapolitan earthquake of 1857, and, by a
