28 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTELY.
orbits of the planets, whose evolution requires some finer if more com-
plex fore-ordination than merely the existence of two masses undis-
turbed by any other matter in space.
I shall only say in conclusion : Assuming the suns mass to be com-
posed of portions which were far asunder before it was hot, the imme-
diate antecedent to its incandescence must have been either two bodies
with details differing only in proportion and densities from the cases we
have been now considering as examples ; or it must have been some
number more than two some finite number at the most the number
of atoms in the suns present mass, which is a finite number as easily
understood and imagined as number 3 or number 123. The imme-
diate antecedent to incandescence may have been the whole constitu-
ents in the extreme condition of subdivision that is to say, in the
condition of separate atoms ; or it may have been any smaller number
of groups of atoms making up minute crystals or groups of crystals
snow-flakes of matter, as it were ; or it may have been lumps of matter
like this macadamizing stone ; or like this stone, which you might
mistake for a macadamizing stone, and which was actually traveling
through space till it fell on the earth at Possil, in the neighborhood of
Glasgow, on April 5, 1804 ; or like this which was found in the Desert
of Atacama in South America, and is believed to have fallen there from
the sky a fragment made up of iron and stone, which looks as if it
had solidified from a mixture of gravel and melted iron in a place
where tliere was very little of heaviness ; or this splendidly crystal-
lized piece of iron, a slab cut out of the celebrated aerolite of Lenarto,
in Hungary;* or this wonderfully shaped specimen, a model of the
Middlesburgh meteorite, kindly given me by Professor A. S. Her-
schel, with corrugations showing how its melted matter has been
scoured off from the front part of its surface in its final rush through
the earths atmosphere when it was seen to fall on March 14, 1881,
at 3.35 p. m.
For the theory of the sun it is indifferent which of these varieties
of configurations of matter may have been the immediate antecedent
of his incandescence, but I can never think of these material ante-
cedents without remembering a question put to me thirty years ago
by the late Bishop Ewing, Bishop of Argyll and the Isles : Do you
imagine that piece of matter to have been as it is from the beginning ;
to have been created as it is, or to have been as it is through all time
till it fell on the earth ? I had told him that I believed the sun to be
built up of stones, but he would not be satisfied till he knew, or could
imagine, what kind of stones. I could not but agree with him in feel-
ing it impossible to imagine that any one of these meteorites before
you has been as it is through all time, or that the materials of the sun
were like this for all time before they came together and became hot.
* The three aerolites now exhibited belong to the Ilunterian Museum of the University
of Glasgow, and have been kindly lent me for this evening by the curator, Dr. Young.
