EAR THQ UAKES. 365
of post-cards, one of which was to be returned to him at the end of
each week with a record of the shocks which had been felt. The
barricade of post-cards was then extended farther northward, with the
result of surrounding the origin of certain shocks among the mountains,
while others were traced to the sea-shore. By systematically pursuing
earthquakes, it was seen that many shocks had their origin beneath the
sea, . . . but it was seldom that they crossed through the mountains
forming the backbone of the island. * When the country had been
thus mapped out, it was possible to choose the most advantageous sites
for the observatories.
It would carry us too far into technical matters to describe the
method of searching into the bowels of the earth for the actual point
of disturbance. It must here suffice to say that if a shock be accurately-
timed at various places, and if the approximately circular ring where
it was most severe be determined, it is possible to find with fair accu-
racy the spot or spots under which it originated and the depth of the
earthquake-center. Even without accurate time-observations, Mallet
was able to show that the Neapolitan shock originated between three
and seven miles below the surface. The Yokohama earthquake of
J 880 appears to have had its center at a depth of from one and a half
to five miles. Notwithstanding that one earthquake has been estimated
as originating at a depth of fifty miles, it is probable that in all cases
the center of shock is only a few miles below the surface.
The vagueness as to the position which has been assigned for the
center of disturbance in the case of particular earthquakes probably
depends less on the difficulty of tracing back the vibrations to their
origin, than on the fact that the shocks do not usually originate in a
single point, but rather along a line of a mile or two in length.
As to the way in which seismic activity is distributed geographi-
cally over the earths surface, certain broad conclusions have been
fairly well ascertained. If a map be shaded, so as to represent the fre-
quency of earthquakes, we see that the shading has a tendency to fall
into bands or ribbons, which generally follow the steeply sloping shores
of continents and islands ; and it is probable that the actual origins of
the shocks are generally situated under the sea not far from the coast.
It is a further interesting peculiarity that the most important bands
fall end to end, so that they may be regarded as a single ribbon em-
bracing nearly half the earth. It may be suspected that this ribbon
really meets itself and forms a closed curve, but this can not be proved
as yet. We may begin to trace its course at Cape Horn, whence it fol-
lows the Andes along the whole western coast of South America. At
the north of that continent it becomes somewhat broader, but its course
is clearly marked along the line of the West Indies from Trinidad to
Cuba. Hence it passes to the mainland in Mexico, and then runs along
the whole western coast of North America. We then trace the line
* Milne, Earthquakes, p. 189.
