3 66 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
through, the Aleutian Islands to Kamchatka, and thence southward
through the Japanese Islands, the Philippines, and the Moluccas, to
Sumatra and Java. Another branch seems to run from Sumatra,
through New Guinea, to New Zealand, and the closed curve may per-
haps be completed through the Antarctic regions, which are known to
be volcanic. Returning to the first branch which we traced as far as
Java, to the westward the seismic areas become more patchy and less
linear. It may, however, perhaps be maintained that the ribbon runs
on through India, Persia, Syria, the Eastern Mediterranean, Greece,
and Italy.
This grouping of seismic areas into a ribbon does not comprise all
the regions of earthquakes, but it must rather be taken as meaning
that there is one great principal line of cracking of the earths surface.
In speaking here of earthquakes, those sensible shocks are meant which
are sufficiently severe to damage buildings, for, as will be explained
below, there is reason to believe that the whole earth is in a continual
state of tremor.
Seismic areas are not absolutely constant in their limits, and cases
are known where regions previously quiescent have become disturbed.
It seems likely that the recent disastrous earthquake at Charleston
belongs to the West Indian system of seismic activity, but there is no
reason to suspect a permanent extension of the West Indian area so
as to embrace the Southern States. On the contrary, it is far more
probable that this disastrous shock will remain a unique occurrence.
The previous experience of great earthquakes, such as that of Lisbon
in the middle of the last century, shows, however, that the inhabitants
of Charleston must for the next year or two expect the recurrence of
slight shocks, and that the subterranean forces will then lull them-
selves to sleep again.
With regard to the distribution of earthquakes in time there is no
evidence of either decrease or increase within historical periods, and
although physical considerations would lead us to suppose that they
were more frequent in early geological times, geology at least can
furnish no proof that this has been the case.*
A great deal has been written on the causes of earthquakes, and
many of the suggested theories seem fanciful in the highest degree.
It is clear, however, that the primary cause resides in the upper layers
of the earth, and that the motive power is either directly or indirectly
the internal heat of the earth. The high temperature of the rocks, in
those little scratches in the earths surface which we call mines, proves
the existence of abundant energy for the production of any amount of
disturbance of the upper layers. It only remains to consider how that
energy can be brought to bear. One way is by the slow shrinking of
the earth, consequent on its slow cooling. Now, the heterogeneity of
the upper layers makes it impossible that the shrinkage shall occur
* Geikic, Contemporary Review, October, 1886.
