EARTHQUAKES. 367
with perfect uniformity all round. Thus, one part of the surface will
go down before another, and as this must usually occur by a cracking
and sudden motion, the result will be an earthquake.
The seismic ribbons of which we have spoken are probably lines of
weakness along which cracking habitually takes place. Along these
lines there are enormous dislocations of the geological strata, and
earthquakes are known to follow lines of faulting. The geologically
recent elevation of the Pacific coast of South America is obviously,
from this point of view, connected with the abundance of volcanoes
and the frequency of earthquakes along the chain of the Andes.
One would think that the continual ejection of lava and ashes
from an active volcano must leave a hollow under the mountain, and
that some day the cavern would suddenly collapse. It has, however,
been observed that volcanic eruptions and severe earthquakes are to
some extent alternatives, so that it seems as though the volcanic vent
served as a safety-valve for the liberation of the dangerous matter.
But the theory of the collapsing cavern must not be wholly rejected,
for some disastrous earthquakes affecting only very restricted areas,
such as that of Casamicciola in Ischia, are hardly otherwise explica-
ble. In this case Palmieri has attributed the formation of the cavern
to evisceration under the town produced by hot mineral springs.
In the theories of which we have just spoken, the internal heat of
the earth acts indirectly, by giving to gravitation an opportunity of
coming into play. But as in volcanic eruptions enormous quantities
of steam are usually emitted, it is probable that the pressure of steam
is the force by which the lava and ashes are vomited forth, and that
the steam is generated when water has got among hot internal rocks.
From this point of view we can understand that an eruption will serve
as a protection against earthquakes, and that the centers of disturbance
will usually be submarine.
It may on the whole be safely concluded that a diversity of causes
are operative, and that some earthquakes are due to one and others to
other causes.
It would, however, be certainly wrong to look only to the interior
of the earth for the causation of earthquakes, since the statistics of
earthquakes clearly point to connections with processes external to the
solid earth.
The laborious inquiries of M. Perrey show that there are more
earthquakes at the time of full and change of moon than at other
times, more when the moon is nearest to the earth and more when she
is on the meridian than at the times and seasons when she is not in
those positions relatively to the earth. The excess of earthquakes at
these times is, however, not great, and an independent investigation
of the Japanese earthquakes does not confirm Perreys results. It is
well, therefore, still to hold opinion in suspense on this point. If,
however, Perreys result should be confirmed, we must attribute it to
