37 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to produce the greater number of these noises. The microphone is
especially sensitive to vertical movements of the soil, whereas the tro-
mometer fails to reveal them. Nevertheless, there was more or less
concordance between the agitations of the two instruments. In order,
then, to determine the noises corresponding to various kinds of oscilla-
tion, he transported his microphone to Palmieris Vesuvian observa-
tory, where mild earthquakes are almost incessant ; here he discovered
that each class of shock had its characteristic noise. The vertical
shocks gave the volleys of musketry and the undulatory shocks the
roarings. By a survey with his microphone he concluded that the
mountain is divided by lines of approximate stillness into regions
where the agitation is great. If a metal plate dusted over with sand
is set into vibration by a violin-bow rubbing on its edge, all the sand
congregates into lines which mark out a pattern on the plate : these
lines are nodes, or lines of stillness. It appears, then, that, when Vesu-
vius trembles with earthquake-shocks, its method of vibration is such
that there are nodes of stillness.
At the Solfatara of Pozzuoli the sounds were extraordinarily loud ;
and the prevailing noise could be imitated by placing the microphone
on the lid of a boiling kettle. Similar experiments have since been
made by Milne in Japan with similar results.
Some years ago my brother Horace and I made some experiments
at Cambridge with a pendulum, so arranged as to betray the minutest
displacements. It was then but few years since Bertelli and Rossi
had begun to observe ; we had read no account of their work, and
earth-tremors were quite unsuspected by us. Indeed, the object of
our experiment, the measurement of the moons attraction on a plum-
met, was altogether frustrated by these disturbances. The pendulum
was successfully shielded from the shaking caused by traffic in the
town, so that there was no perceptible difference in its behavior in the
middle of the night on Sunday, and in the day-time during the week.
We were then much surprised to find that the dance of the pendulum
(for it was not a regular oscillation) was absolutely incessant. The
agitation was more marked at some times than at others ; the relative-
ly large swinging, though absolutely very small, would continue for
many days together, and this would be succeeded by a few days of
comparative calm. In fact, we 6aw the seismic storms and calm of
the Italians.* As the instrument was designed for another purpose,
and was not quite appropriate for microseismic observation, we did not
continue to note it after a month or two. But the substantial identity
of the microseisms of England and Italy seems fairly well established.
The cause of these interesting vibrations are as yet but little un-
derstood, and it may be hoped that the subject will receive further
attention. It seems probable that they are in part true microscopic
earthquakes, produced by the seismic forces in the neighborhood.
* Report to the British Association on the Lunar Disturbances of Gravity, 1881.
