EAR THQ UAKES. 3 7 1
But they are also doubtless due to the reverberation of very distant
shocks. It is probable that there is not a minute of time without its
earthquake somewhere, and the vibrations may often be transmitted
to very great distances. In only a very few cases has it hitherto been
possible to identify a tremor with a distant shock, and even then the
identification is necessarily rather doubtful. One of the best authen-
ticated of these cases was when M. Nyren, an astronomer at St. Peters-
burg, noticed on May 10 (April 28), 1877, a very abnormal agitation
of the levels of his telescope, an hour and fourteen minutes after there
had been a very severe shock at Iquique, in Peru.
Astronomers are much troubled by slight changes in the level of
the piers of their instruments, and they meet this inconvenience by
continually reading their levels and correcting their results according-
ly. Of course, they also take average results. These troublesome
changes are probably earth-tremors, with so slow a motion to and fro
that the term tremor becomes inappropriate. This kind of change
has been called a displacement of the vertical, since a plummet moves
relatively to the ground. Thus, we found at Cambridge that as the
pendulum danced it slowly drifted in one direction or the other.
There was a fairly regular daily oscillation, but the pendulum would
sometimes reverse its expected course for a few minutes, or for an
hour. During the whole time that we were observing, the mean posi-
tion of the pendulum for the day slowly shifted in one direction ; but
even after a voyage of six weeks the total change was still excessively
small. How far this was a purely local effect and how far general
we had no means of determining.
This is a subject which M. dAbbadie, of the French Institute, has
made especially his own. Notwithstanding his systematic observa-
tions, carried on during many years in an observatory near the Bay
of Biscay, on the French side of the Spanish frontier, hardly anything
has been made out as to the laws governing displacements of the
vertical. He has, however, been able to show that there is a tendency
for deflection of the vertical toward the sea at high tide, but this
deflection is frequently masked by other simultaneous changes of
unexplained origin.
This result, and the connection between barometric variations and
earthquakes and tremors, should make us reflect on the forces which
are brought into play by the rise and fall of the tide and of atmos-
pheric pressure. Our very familiarity with these changes may easily
blind us to the greatness of the forces which are so produced. The
sea rests on the ground, and when the tide is high there is a greater
weight to be supported than when it is low. A cubic foot of water
weighs 62 pounds ; thus if high-tide be only ten feet higher than low-
tide, every square foot of the sea-bottom supports 620 pounds more
at high than at low water ; and 620 pounds to the square foot is
nearly 8,000,000 tons to the square mile. Again, the barometer ranges
