372 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
through fully two inches, and a pool of mercury two inches deep and
a square foot in area weighs 145 pounds ; hence, when the barometer
is very high, every square foot of the earth-surface supports about 140
pounds more than if it is low ; and 140 pounds to the square foot is
1,800,000 tons to the square mile.
Now, rocks are not absolutely rigid against flexure, certainly less
so than most of the metals, and these enormous weights have to be sup-
ported by the rocks. Taking a probable estimate for the elasticity of
rocks, I have made some calculations as to the amount of effect that
we may expect from this shifting of weights, and I find that it is
likely that we are at least three or four inches nearer the earths
center when the barometer is very high than when it is very low.*
It may be that the incessant straining and unstraining of the earths
surface is partly the cause of earth -tremors, and we can at least under-
stand that these strains may well play the part of the trigger for
precipitating the explosion of the internal seismic forces. The calcula-
tions also show that near the sea-coast the soil must be tilted toward
the sea at high-water, and that the angle of tilting may be such as
could be detected by a delicate instrument like that of M. dAbbadie.
This breathing of the solid earth seems to afford a wide field for
scientific activity. It would be premature to speculate as to how far
it will be possible to educe law from what is now chaotic ; but it is
clear that the co-operation of many observers will be required to
separate the purely local from the true terrestrial changes. The
directors of astronomical observatories have peculiar facilities for the
study of displacements of the vertical, and it is to be regretted that
hitherto most of them have been contented to banish, as far as may
be, the troubles caused in their astronomical work by earth-tremors
and displacements of the vertical. Fortnightly Review.
* Second Report to the British Association on Lunar Disturbances of Gravity, 1882.
Professor Jtdd, in his address at the last annual meeting of the Geological
Society, showed that minerals are subject to physiological changes, analogous to
those winch take place in plants and animals, though differing in the form of
their manifestation and the time they occupy. They have a life-history, he says,
which is in part determined by their original constitution, and in part by the
long series of slowly- varying conditions to which they have since been subjected.
In spite of the circumstance that their cycles of change have extended over pe-
riods measured by millions of years, the nature of their metamorphoses and the
processes by which these have been brought about are, in all essential respects,
analogous to those which take place in a sequoia or a butterfly. By this, he does
not mean that minerals actually live, in the sense in which living is popularly
understood ; but that, like animals and plants, they go thromrh definite cycles of
change, dependent on their environment. Hence the distinction between or-
ganic or living matter, and inorganic or lifeless matter, is not funda-
mental.
