NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 373
NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE.
By ANDREW DICKSON WHITE,
LATE PRESIDENT OF CORNELL UNIVERSITY.
II. METEOROLOGY.*
r
I HE popular beliefs of classic antiquity regarding storms, thunder,
and lightning, took shape in myths representing Vulcan as forging
thunderbolts, Jupiter as flinging them at his enemies, ^Eolus intrust-
ing the winds in a bag to iEneas, and the like. An attempt at their
further theological development is seen in the Pythagorean statement
that lightnings are intended to terrify the damned in Tartarus.
But, at a very early period, we see the beginning of a scientific
view. In Greece, the Ionic philosophers held that such phenomena
are obedient to law ; Plato, Aristotle, and many lesser lights, attempted
to account for them on natural grounds ; and their explanations, though
crude, were based upon observation and thought. In Rome, Lucretius,
Seneca, Pliny, and others, inadequate as their statements were, im-
planted at least the germs of a science. But, as the Christian Church
rose to power, this evolution was checked ; the new leaders of thought
found, in the Scriptures recognized by them as sacred, the basis for a
new view, or rather for a modification of the old view.
This ending of a scientific evolution based upon observation and
reason, and this beginning of a sacred science based upon the letter of
Scripture and on theology, are seen in the utterances of various Fathers
in the early Church. As to the general features of this new develop-
ment, Tertullian held that sundry passages of Scripture prove lightning
identical with hell-fire ; f and this idea was transmitted from generation
to generation of later churchmen, who found an especial support of
Tertullians view in the sulphurous smell experienced during thunder-
storms. ;{; Saint Hilarion thought the firmament very much lower than
the heavens, and that it was created for the support of the upper waters,
as well as for the tempering of our atmosphere.* Saint Ambrose held
the firmament to be a solid vault, and the thunder to be caused by the
winds breaking through it ; citing from the prophet Amos the sublime
passage regarding Him that establisheth the thunders. | He shows,
indeed, some conception of the true source of rain ; but his whole rea-
soning is limited by various scriptural texts. He lays great stress upon
the firmament as a solid outer shell of the universe : the heavens he
holds to be not far outside this outer shell, and argues regarding their
* Sec The Popular Science Monthly for October, 18S5.
f See Tertullian, Apol. contra gentes, c. 47.
\ See, for example, Augustin de Angelis, Lectura Meteorologia, 64.
* See Hilarion, In Psalm, cxxxv (Migne, Patr. Lat., ix, 773).
|| Firmans tonitrua (Amos iv, 13) ; the phrase does not appear in our version.
