CREATION OR EVOLUTION? 29
Surely this stone has an eventful history, but I shall not tax your pa-
tience longer by trying to trace it conjecturally. I shall only say that
we can not but agree with the common opinion which regards meteor-
ites as fragments broken from larger masses, but we can not be satisfied
without trying to imagine what were the antecedents of those masses.
CREATION OR EVOLUTION?*
Br W. D. LE SUEUE.
IN a recently published work, bearing the above title, we have an
elaborate plea, drawn by an eminent legal practitioner, against the
doctrine of evolution as expounded by such writers as Darwin, Huxley,
and Spencer. To satisfy the natural curiosity of the public as to how
eminent qualifications as a jurist should have come to be united with
competence for a very ambitious essay in biological and philosophical
criticism, the author informs us that, for years past, he has found re-
laxation from severe professional labor in the study, during his leisure
hours, of the works of the leading evolutionists. He believes that he
has fully mastered both their facts and their reasonings ; and, finding
the latter very weak so weak that, in one case, he almost blushes to
have to repeat the argument to his intelligent readers he comes for-
ward to level the whole structure of the evolutionary philosophy, and
to rebuild on its ruins the ancient theory of special creation. It
must not be supposed, however, that Mr. Curtis is indebted to previous
writers for the arguments he now brings to bear in favor of that ven-
erable position. It is over forty years, he tells us, since he looked into
any of the great authorities in the department of natural theology ; and
he is not now conscious of having borrowed an argument, imitated
a method, or followed an example. It is not often, perhaps, that so
extensive a claim can be laid to originality ; for most of us, it must be
confessed, borrow arguments, imitate methods, and follow examples,
often to our great profit, and without, in general, feeling our con-
sciences unduly burdened. There is no doubt in our mind that Mr.
Curtis has made an honest effort to understand the writers whom he
has set to work to criticise. He has conned his brief with a good deal
of care ; but the trouble is, as we conceive, that he has held a brief,
and has not been in contact with the actual facts. He has taken one
or two books of Darwins, and one or two of Spencers, and has sub-
jected them to a kind of microscopic analysis ; but there is no evi-
dence whatever that either his reading or his observation has been of
a character to enable him to do justice to the doctrine of evolution as
a whole. He has not even read enough o.f the authors he criticises to
* Creation or Evolution ? A Philosophical Inquiry. By George Ticknor Curtis.
New York : D. Appleton and Company.
