374 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
character from Saint Pauls Epistle to the Corinthians and from the one
hundred and forty-eighth Psalm. As to the waters which are above
the firmament, he takes up the objection of those who hold that, this
outside of the universe being spherical, the waters must slide off it,
especially if the firmament revolves ; and he points out that it is by
no means certain that the outside of the firmament is spherical, and
insists that, if it does revolve, the water is just what is needed to lubri-
cate and cool its axis.*
Saint Jerome held that God at the creation spread out the firma-
ment between heaven and earth, separating the upper waters from the
lower, and that, in order to keep all in place, He caused the upper waters
to be frozen into ice. A proof of this view Jerome found in the w r ords
of Ezekiel regarding the crystal stretched above the cherubim. f
The germinal principle in accordance with which all these theories
were evolved, was most clearly proclaimed to the world by Saint Au-
gustine in his famous utterance, Nothing is to be accepted save on
the authority of Scripture, since greater is that authority than all the
powers of the human mind. \ No treatise was safe thereafter which
did not breathe the spirit and conform to the letter of this maxim.
Unfortunately, what was generally meant by the authority of Script-
ure, was the tyranny of a literature imperfectly transcribed, viewed
through distorting superstitions, and frequently interpreted by party
spirit.
Following this precept, Saint Augustine developed, in every field,
theological views of science which have never led to a single truth
which, without exception, have forced mankind away from the truth,
and have caused Christendom to stumble for centuries into abysses of
error and sorrow. In meteorology, as in every other science with
which he dealt, he based everything upon the letter of the sacred text ;
and it is characteristic of the result that this man, so great when un-
trammeled, thought it his duty to guard especially the whole theory
of the waters above the heavens.
In the sixth century this theological reasoning was still further
developed by Cosmas Indicopleustes. Basing his theory of the uni-
verse upon the ninth chapter of Hebrews, he insisted that the earth is
flat, a parallelogram, and that from its outer edges rise immense walls
* See Ambrose, Ilexfcmcron, ii, 3, 4 ; ill, 5 (Migne, Patr. Lat., xiv, 148-150, 153,
165). The passage as to lubrication of the heavenly axis is as follows: Deinde cum
ipsi dicant volvi orbem cceli stellis ardentibus rcfulgentem, nonne divina providentia
necessario prospexit, ut intra orbcm cceli, et supra orbem rcdundarct aqua, qute ilia fcr-
ventis axis incendia temperaret ?
f See Jerome, Epistola, lxix, 6 (Migne, Patr. Lat., xxii, 669).
\ Major est quippe Scriptura: hujus auctoritas, quam omnis humani ingenii capa.
citas. Augustine, De Genesi ad Lit., ii, 5 (Migne, Patr. Lat., xxxiv, 266, 267).
Or, as he is cited by Vincent of Beauvais ( Spec. Nat., iv, 98) : Xon est aliquid temere
diffiniendum, sed quantum Scriptura dicit accipiendum, cujus major est auctoritas quam
omnis humani ingenii capacitas.
