376 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
inflame the lower elements ; as to the waters placed above the firma-
ment, lower than the spiritual heavens, but higher than all corporeal
creatures, he says, Some declare that they were stored there for the
deluge, but others, more correctly, that they are intended to temper
the fire of the stars. He goes on with long discussions as to various
elements and forces in Nature, and dwells at length upon the air, of
which he says that the upper, serene air is over the heavens ; that the
other, w r hich is coarse with humid exhalations, is sent off from the
earth, and that in this are lightning, hail, snow, ice, and tempests,
finding proof of this in the one hundred and forty-eighth Psalm, where
these are commanded to praise the Lord from the earth. *
So great was Bedes authority that nearly all the anonymous specu-
lations of the next following centuries upon these subjects w r ere event-
ually ascribed to him. In one of these spurious treatises an attempt
is made to get new light upon the sources of the waters above the
heavens, the main reliance beinsr the sheet containing the animals let
down from heaven, in the vision of Saint Peter. Another of these
treatises is still more curious, for it endeavors to account for earth-
quakes and tides by means of the Leviathan mentioned in Scripture.
This characteristic passage runs as follows : Some say that the earth
contains the animal Leviathan, and that he holds his tail after a fash-
ion of his own, so that it is sometimes scorched by the sun, whereupon
he strives to get hold of the sun, and so the earth is shaken by the
motion of his indignation ; he drinks in also, at times, such huge
masses of the waves that when he belches them forth all the seas feel
their effect. f And this theological theory of the tides, as caused by
the alternate suction and belching of Leviathan went far and wide.
In the writings thus covered with the name of Bede, there is much
showing a scientific spirit, which might have come to something of
permanent value had it not been hampered by the supposed necessity
of conforming to the letter of Scripture. It is as startling as it is
refreshing to hear one of these mediaeval theorists burst out against
those who are content to explain everything by the power of God, as
follows : What is more pitiable than to say that a thing is, because
God is able to do it, and not to show any reason why it is so, nor any
purpose for which it is so ; just as if God did everything that he is
able to do ! You talk like one who says that God is able to make a
calf out of a log. But did he ever do it? Either, then, show a rea-
son why a thing is so, or a purpose wherefore it is so, or else cease to
declare it so. \
* See Bede, Dc natura rerum (Migne, Patr. Lat., xc).
\ See the treatise De mundi constitutione, in Bedes Opera (Migne, Patr. Lat.,
xc, 8S4).
\ Sec Elementa philosophioe, in Bedes Opera (Migne, Patr. Lat., xc, 1139).
This treatise, which has also been printed, under the tide of De philosophia mundi,
among the works of Ilonorius of Anton, is believed by modern scholars (Haureau, Wer-
ner, Poole) to be the production of William of Conches.
