378 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
merely sharpened at the lower end, and so blazing arrows, cleaving
and burning everything they touch. *
But far more important in the thirteenth century was the fact that
the most eminent scientific authority of that age, Albert the Great,
Bishop of Ratisbon, attempted to reconcile the speculations of Aris-
totle with the theological views derived from the fathers. In one very
important respect he improved upon the meteorological views of his
great master. The thunderbolt, he says, is no mere fire, but the prod-
uct of black clouds containing much mud, which, when it is baked
by the intense heat, forms a fiery black or red stone that falls from
the sky, tearing beams and crushing walls in its course : such he has
seen with his own eyes.f
The monkish encyclopedists of the later middle ages added little
to these theories. As we glance over the pages of Vincent of Beau-
vais, Bartholomew of Glanville, and William of Conches, we note only
a growing deference to the authority of Aristotle as supplementing
that of Isidore and Bede and explaining sacred Scripture. Aristotle
is treated like a church Father, but extreme care is taken not to go
beyond the great maxim of Saint Augustine; then, little by little, Bede
and Isidore fall into the background, Aristotle fills the whole horizon,
and his utterances are second in sacredness only to the text of Holy
Writ.
A curious illustration of the difficulties these mediaeval scholars
had to meet in reconciling the scientific theories of Aristotle with the
letter of the Bible is seen in the case of the rainbow. It is to the
honor of Aristotle that his conclusions regarding the rainbow, though
slightly erroneous, were based upon careful observation and evolved
by reasoning alone ; but his Christian commentators, while anxious to
follow him, were brought up against the scriptural statement that God
had created the rainbow as a sign to Noah that there should never
asrain be a Flood on the earth. Even so bold a thinker as Cardinal
Pierre dAilly, whose speculations as to the geography of the earth
did so much afterward in stimulating Columbus, faltered before this
statement, acknowledging that God alone could explain it ; but sug-
gested that possibly never before the deluge had a cloud been suffered
to take such a position toward the sun as to cause a rainbow. J
The learned cardinal was also constrained to believe that certain
stars and constellations have something to do in causing the rain, since
these would best explain Noahs foreknowledge of the Deluge. In
connection with this scriptural doctrine of winds came a scriptural
* Sec Joannes a S. Gcminiano, Summa, c. To.
f See Albertus Magnus, II Sent., Opp. xv, 137, a. (cited by ITellcr, Gc?ch. d. Phy-
8ik, i, 184) and his Liber Methauroruni, III, iv, 18 (of which I have used the edition
of Venice, 1488).
% See his Concordia astronomies veritatis cum theologia (Paris, 1483 in his
Imago mundi and Venice, 1490); also Ecks commentary on Aristotles Mcteoro-
logica (Augsburg, 1519).
