NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 379
doctrine of earthquakes : they were believed to be caused by winds
issuing from the earth, and this view was based upon the passage in
the one hundred and thirty-fifth Psalm, He bringeth the wind out of
his treasuries.*
Such were the main typical attempts during nearly fourteen cent-
uries to build up under theological guidance and within scriptural limi-
tations a sacred science of meteorology. But these theories were
mainly evolved in the effort to establish a basis and general theory of
phenomena : it still remained to account for special manifestations,
and here came a development of theological thought far more im-
portant.
This development was twofold : on the one hand, these phenomena
were attributed to the Almighty ; and, on the other, to Satan. As to
the first of these theories, we constantly find the divine wrath men-
tioned by the earlier fathers as the cause of lightning, hail-storms,
hurricanes, and the like.
At the very beginning of Christianity we see a curious struggle
between pagan and Christian belief upon this point. Near the close
of the second century the Emperor Marcus Aurelius, in his effort to
save the empire, fought a hotly-contested battle with the Quadi, in
what is now Hungary. While the issue of this great battle was yet
doubtful, there came suddenly a blinding storm beating into the faces
of the Quadi. This gave the Roman troops the advantage, and ena-
bled Marcus Aurelius to win a decisive victory. Votaries of each of
the great religions claimed that this storm was caused by the object
of their own adoration. The pagans insisted that Jupiter had sent
the storm in obedience to their prayers, and on the Antonine Column
at Rome we may still see the figure of Olympian Jove casting his
thunderbolts and pouring a storm of rain from the open heavens
against the Quadi. On the other hand, the Christians insisted that
the storm had been sent by Jehovah in obedience to their prayers ;
and Tertullian, Eusebius, Saint Gregory of Nyssa, and Saint Jerome
were among those who insisted upon this meteorological miracle the
first two, indeed, in the fervor of their arguments for its reality,
allowing themselves to be carried considerably beyond exact histori-
cal truth, f
As time went on, the Fathers developed this view more and more
from various texts in the Jewish and Christian sacred books, substi-
tuting for Jupiter flinging his thunderbolts the Almighty wrapped in
thunder and sending forth his lightnings. Through the middle ages
this was fostered until it became a mere truism, entering into all me-
* See Rcisch, Margarita philosophica, ix, IS, and Eck, Arist. Meteor. (as above),
ii, nota 2.
f For the authorities, pagan and Christian, see the note of Merivale, in his Ilistory
of the Romans under the Empire, chap, lxviii. He refers, for still fuller citations, to
Fynes Clintons Fast. Rom., p. 24.
