3 8o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
diseval thinking, and was still further developed by an attempt to
specify the particular sins which were thus punished. In the twelfth
century the Florentine historian, Yillani, ascribed floods and fires to
the too great pride of the city of Florence and the ingratitude of
the citizens toward God, which, of course, says a recent historian,
meant their insufficient attention to the ceremonies of religion.*
In the thirteenth century the Cistercian monk, Caesar of Heister-
bach, popularized the doctrine in Central Europe. His rich collection
of anecdotes for the illustration of religious truths was the favorite
recreative reading in the convents for three centuries, and exercised
great influence over the thought of the later middle ages ; and in
this work he relates several instances of the divine use of lightning,
both for rescue and for punishment. Thus he tells us how the stew-
ard (ccllerarius) of his own monastery was saved from the clutch of a
robber by a clap of thunder which, in answer to his prayer, burst sud-
denly from the sky and frightened the bandit from his purpose ; how,
in a Saxon theatre, twenty men were struck down, while a priest
escaped, not because he was not a greater sinner than the rest, but
because the thunderbolt had respect for his profession ! It is Ccesa-
rius, too, who tells us the story of the priest of Treves, struck by light-
ning in his own church, whither he had gone to ring the bell against
the storm, and whose sins were revealed by the course of the light-
ning ; for it tore his clothes from him and consumed certain parts
of his body, showing that the sins for which he was punished were
vanity and unchastity.f
This mode of explaining the divine interference more minutely is
developed century after century, and we find both Catholics and Prot-
estants assigning as causes of unpleasant meteorological phenomena
whatever appears to them wicked, or even unorthodox. Among the
English reformers, Tyndale quotes in this kind of argument the thir-
teenth chapter of I. Samuel, showing that, when God gave Israel a
king, it thundered and rained. \ Archbishop Whitgift, Bishop Bale,
and Bishop Pilkington insisted on the same view.* In Protestant
Germany, about the same period, Plieninger took a dislike to the new
Gregorian calendar, and published a volume of Brief Reflections, in
which he insisted that the elements had given utterance to Gods
anger against it, calling attention to the fact that violent storms raged
over almost all Germany during the very ten days which the Pope
had taken out for the correction of the year, and that great floods
began with the first days of the corrected ycar.||
* See Trollope, History of Florence, i, 64.
f See Caesarius Heisterbacensis, Dialogus miraculorum, x, c. 28-30.
% See Tyndale, Doctrinal Treatises, 194 (in Parker Society publications).
* See Whitgift, Works, 477-483 ; Bale, Works, 244, 245 ; and Pilkington,
Works, 177, 536 (both in Parker Society publications). Bishop Bale cites especially
Job xxxviii, Ecclesiasticus xiii, and Revelation viii, as supporting the theory.
J See Janssen, Gcschichtc des deutschen Tolkcs, v, 350, for Plieningers words.
