NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 381
Early in the seventeenth century, Majoli, Bishop of Voltoraria, in
southern Italy, produced his huge work, Dies Canicularii, or Dog-
Days, which remained a favorite encyclopaedia in Catholic lands for
over a hundred years. Treating of thunder and lightning, he com-
pares them to bombs against the wicked, and says that the thunder-
bolt is an exhalation condensed and cooked into stone, and that it
is not to be doubted that, of all instruments of Gods vengeance, the
thunderbolt is the chief ; that by means of it Sennacherib and his
army were consumed ; that Luther was struck by lightning in his
youth as a caution against departing from the Catholic faith ; that
blasphemy and Sabbath-breaking are the sins to which this punishment
is especially assigned, and he cites the case of Dathan and Abiram.*
Fifty years later the Jesuit Stengel developed this line of thought still
further in four thick quarto volumes on the judgments of God, adding
an elaborate schedule for the use of preachers in the sermons of an
entire year. Three chapters were devoted to thunder, lightning, and
storms. That the author teaches the agency in these of diabolical
powers goes without saying ; but this can only act, he declares, by
divine permission, and the thunderbolt is always the finger of God,
which rarely strikes a man save for his sins, and the nature of the spe-
cial sin thus punished may be inferred from the bodily organs smitten. f
A few years later, in Protestant Swabia, Pastor George Nuber issued
a whole volume of weather-sermons, in which he discusses nearly
every sort of elemental disturbances storms, floods, droughts, light-
ning, and hail. These, he says, come direct from God for human sins,
yet no doubt with discrimination, for there are five sins which God
especially punishes with lightning and hail, namely, impenitence, in-
credulity, neglect of the repair of churches, fraudulence in the pay-
ment of tithes to the clergy, and oppression of subordinates, each of
which points he supports with a mass of scriptural texts. J
This doctrine having become especially precious both to Catholics
and to Protestants, there were issued hand-books of prayers against
bad weather : among these was the Spiritual Thunder and Storm
Booklet, produced in 1731 by a Protestant scholar, Stoltzlin, whose
three or four hundred pages of prayer and song, sighs for use when it
lightens fearfully, and cries of anguish when the hail-storm is draw-
ing on, show a wonderful adaptability to all possible meteorological
emergencies. The preface of this volume is contributed by Professor
Dilherr, pastor of the great church of St. Sebald at Nuremberg, who,
in discussing the divine purposes of storms, adds to the three usually
assigned namely, Gods wish to manifest his power, to display his
anger, and to drive sinners to repentance a fourth, which, he says, is
* See Majoli, Dies Can., I, i.
f See Stengelius, De judiciis divinis, ii, 15-61, and especially the example of the
impurus et saltator sacerdos, fulmine castratus (pp. 26, 27).
% See Nuber, Conciones meteoricae (TTlm, 1661).
