MENTAL DIFFERENCES OF MEN AND WOMEN. 383
MENTAL DIFFERENCES OF MEN AND WOMEN.
By GEORGE J. EOMANES.
IN his Descent of Man Mr. Darwin has shown at length that what
Hunter termed secondary sexual characters occur throughout the
whole animal series, at least as far down in the zoological scale as the
Articulata. The secondary sexual characters with which he is chiefly
concerned are of a hodily kind, such as plumage of birds, horns
of mammals, etc. But I think it is evident that secondary sexual
characters of a mental kind are of no less general occurrence. More-
over, if we take a broad view of these psychological differences, it
becomes instructively apparent that a general uniformity pervades
them that while within the limits of each species the male differs
psychologically from the female, in the animal kingdom as a whole
the males admit of being classified, as it were, in one psychological
species and the females in another. By this, of course, I do not mean
that there is usually a greater psychological difference between the
two sexes of the same species than there is between the same sexes of
different species : I mean only that the points wherein the two sexes
differ psychologically are more or less similar wherever these differ-
ences occur.
It is probably due to a recognition of this fact that from the very
earliest stages of culture mankind has been accustomed to read into all
nature inanimate as well as animate differences of the same kind.
Whether it be in the person of Maya, of the pagan goddesses, of the
Virgin Mary, or in the personifications of sundry natural objects and
processes, we uniformly encounter the conception of a feminine prin-
ciple coexisting with a masculine in the general frame of the cosmos.
And this fact, as I have said, is presumably due to a recognition by
mankind of the uniformity as well as the generality of psychological
distinction as determined by sex.
I will now briefly enumerate what appeared to me the leading
features of this distinction in the case of mankind, adopting the ordi-
nary classification of mental faculties as those of intellect, emotion,
and will.
Seeing that the average brain- weight of women is about five ounces
less than that of men, on merely anatomical grounds we should be
prepared to expect a marked inferiority of intellectual power in the
former.* Moreover, as the general physique of women is less robust
* This is proportionally a greater difference than that between the male and female
organisms as a whole, and the amount of it is largely affected by grade of civilization
being least in savages and most in ourselves. Moreover, Sir J. Crichton Browne informs
me, as a result of many observations which he is now making upon the subject, that not
only is the gray matter, or cortex, of the female brain shallower than that of the male,
