3 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
have mastered their terminology. See, for instance, his very futile and
pointless criticism of the term noumenon, as used hy Mr. Spencer.
Upon almost every page of his book we are made to feel that he has
never really breathed the same air as the -writers whose names he so
continually repeats, and with whose works he professes so minute an
acquaintance. He knows them simply as a counsel knows the opposite
party in a suit some one of whom he never heard before he got his
instructions from his client or clients attorney, and of whom he does
not want to hear any more after the trial is over.
We have tried to do justice to the extreme originality of this writers
methods, but without marked success. The patent laws of most coun-
tries, we believe, refuse to grant exclusive rights in connection with
mere processes. A man can get a patent for a new kind of spade, but
not for a new way of handling an old spade, supposing such were dis-
coverable. Well, all we have been able to perceive in the somewhat
heavy volume before us is a process, which may indeed strike the au-
thor as original with himself, but which strikes us as exceedingly
familiar, and as being within very easy reach of any one whose knowl-
edge and reasoning faculties are in a sufficiently undeveloped state to
permit him to use it. It seems to consist in saying, as often as the
evolutionist points to anything as exhibiting marks of relationship
with anything else : Oh, no ! God made that exactly so, by a special
act of creation, for wise purposes of his own. Sometimes Mr. Curtis
feels sure he can indicate the purposes, and then of course the argu-
ment moves triumphantly on ; at other times he acknowledges the
purposes to be hidden, and then he falls back, with calm and pious
assurance, on the fundamental principle that the Creator, being infinite
in wisdom, must have had an infinitely wise end in view in everything
that can be traced to his hand.
All correct reasoning, says our author, on the subject of mans
descent as an animal begins, I presume, with the postulate of an Infinite
Creator, having under his power all the elements and forms of matter,
organized and unorganized, animate and inanimate. This declaration
gives the key-note of the work, and it perhaps also affords a measure
of its philosophical value. To all who are conversant with the use of
philosophical terms, it will be evident that the author has but an im-
perfect idea of what is commonly meant by a postulate. lie means
by it a principle which he intends to apply to the interpretation of all
facts ; others mean by it a principle, the non-recognition of which
would render all inquiry impossible. The difference is obvious and
important. In the ordinary and legitimate sense of the word postu-
late, the existence of an infinite Creator can not possibly be a post-
ulate. It may be considered either as a fact or as a theory. If it is
a fact, it does not need to be postulated it is enough to appeal to it ;
if it is a theory, you can not postulate it without giving it more au-
thority than, as a theory, it ought to have. What we have to do with
