MENTAL DIFFERENCES OF MEN AND WOMEN 387
question of female education, however, I shall have more to say at the
close of this paper, and only allude to the matter at the present stage
in order to temper what I feel to be the almost brutal frankness of my
remarks.
But now, the meritorious qualities wherein the female mind stands
pre-eminent are, affection, sympathy, devotion, self-denial, modesty ;
long-suffering, or patience under pain, disappointment, and adversity ;
reverence, veneration, religious feeling, and general morality. In
these virtues which agree pretty closely with those against which the
apostle says there is no law it will be noticed that the gentler pre-
dominate over the heroic ; and it is observable in this connection that
when heroism of any kind is displayed by a woman, the prompting
emotions are almost certain to be of an unselfish kind.
All the aesthetic emotions are, as a rule, more strongly marked in
women than in men or, perhaps, I should rather say, they are much
more generally present in women. This remark applies especially to
the aesthetic emotions which depend upon refinement of perception.
Hence feminine taste is proverbially good in regard to the smaller
matters of every-day life, although it becomes, as a rule, untrustworthy
in proportion to the necessity for intellectual judgment. In the
arrangement of flowers, the furnishing of rooms, the choice of com-
binations in apparel, and so forth, we generally find that we may be
most safely guided by the taste of women ; while in matters of artistic
or literary criticism we turn instinctively to the judgment of men.
If we now look in somewhat more detail at the habitual display of
these various feelings and virtues on the part of women, we may notice,
with regard to affection, that, in a much larger measure than men, they
derive pleasure from receiving as well as from bestowing : in both
cases affection is felt by them to be, as it were, of more emotional
value. The same remark applies to sympathy. It is very rare to find
a woman who does not derive consolation from a display of sympathy,
whether her sorrow be great or small ; while it is by no means an
unusual thing to find a man who rejects all offers of the kind with a
feeling of active aversion.
Touching devotion, we may note that it is directed by women
pretty equally toward inferiors and superiors spending and being
spent in the tending of children ; ministering to the poor, the afflicted,
and the weak ; clinging to husbands, parents, brothers, often without
and even against reason.
Again, purity and religion are, as it were, the natural heritage of
women in all but the lowest grades of culture. But it is within the
limit of Christendom that both these characters are most strongly
pronounced ; as, indeed, may equally well be said of nearly all the
other virtues which we have just been considering. And the reason
is that Christianity, while crowning the virtue of chastity with an
aureole of mysticism more awful than was ever conceived even by
