MENTAL DIFFERENCES OF MEN AND WOMEN. 391
present time. Coyness and caprice have in consequence become a heritage of
the sex, together with a cohort of allied weaknesses and petty deceits, that men
have come to think venial, and even amiable, in women, but which they would
not tolerate among themselves.
We see, then, that the principles of selection have thus determined
greater strength, both of body and mind, on the part of male animals
throughout the whole mammalian series ; and it would certainly have
been a most unaccountable fact if any exception to this rule had oc-
curred in the case of mankind. For, as regards natural selection, it is
in the case of mankind that the highest premium has been placed upon
the mental faculties or, in other words, it is here that natural selec-
tion has been most busy in the evolution of intelligence and therefore,
as Mr. Darwin remarks, we can only regard it as a fortunate accident
of inheritance that there is not now a greater difference between the
intelligence of men and of women than we actually find. Again, as
regards sexual selection, it is evident that here also the psychologically
segregating influences must have been exceptionally strong in the case
of our own species, seeing that in all the more advanced stages of
civilization or in the stages where mental evolution is highest, and,
therefore, mental differences most pronounced marriages are deter-
mined quite as much with reference to psychical as to physical endow-
ments ; and as men always admire in women what they regard as
distinctively feminine qualities of mind, while women admire in men
the distinctively masculine, sexual selection, by thus acting directly as
well as indirectly on the mental qualities of both, is constantly engaged
in molding the minds of each upon a different pattern.
Such, then, I take to be the chief, or at least the original, causes of
the mental differences in question. But besides these there are sundry
other causes all working in the same direction. For example, as the
principles of selection have everywhere operated in the direction of
endowing the weaker partner with that kind of physical beauty which
comes from slenderness and grace, it follows that there has been every-
where a general tendency to impart to her a comparative refinement
of organization ; and in no species has this been the case in so high a
degree as in man. Now, it is evident from what has been said in an
earlier part of this paper, that general refinement of this kind indirectly
affects the mind in many ways. Again, as regards the analogous,
though coarser, distinction of bodily strength, it is equally evident
that their comparative inferiority in this respect, while itself one of
the results of selection, becomes in turn the cause of their comparative
timidity, sense of dependence, and distrust of their own powers on the
part of women, considered as a class. Hence, also, their comparative
feebleness of will and vacillation of purpose : they are always dimly
conscious of lacking the muscular strength which, in the last resort,
and especially in primitive stages of culture, is the measure of execu-
tive capacity. Hence, also, their resort to petty arts and pretty ways
