39 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
for the securing of their aims ; and hence, in large measure, their
strongly religious bias. The masculine character, being accustomed to
rely upon its own strength, is self-central and self-contained : to it the
need of external aid, even of a supernatural kind, is not felt to be so
urgent as it is to the feminine character, whose only hope is in the
stronger arm of another. The position of man is to stand, of woman
to lean ; and although it may be hard for even a manly nature to
contemplate the mystery of life and the approach of death with a
really Stoic calm, at least this is not so impossible as it is for the more
shrinking and emotional nature of a woman. Lastly, from her abid-
ing sense of weakness and consequent dependence, there also arises
in woman that deeply-rooted desire to please the opposite sex which,
beginning in the terror of a slave, has ended in the devotion of a wife.
We must next observe another psychological lever of enormous
power in severing the mental structures of men and women. Alike in
expanding all the tender emotions, in calling up from the deepest fount-
ains of feeling the flow of purest affection, in imposing the duties of
rigid self-denial, in arousing under its strongest form the consciousness
of protecting the utterly weak and helpless consigned by Nature to
her charge, the maternal instincts are to woman perhaps the strongest
of all influences in the determination of character. And their influence
in this respect continues to operate long after the child has ceased to
be an infant. Constant association with her growing children round
all of whom her affections are closely twined, and in all of whom the
purest emotions of humanity are as yet untouched by intellect imparts
to the mother a fullness of emotional life, the whole quality of which is
distinctively feminine. It has been well remarked by Mr. Fiske that
the prolonged period of infancy and childhood in the human species
must from the first have gradually tended to strengthen the relations
of the children to the mother, and, we may add, also to strengthen
the relations of the mother to the children which implies an immense
impetus to the growth in her of all the altruistic feelings most dis-
tinctive of woman. Thus, in accordance with the general law of in-
heritance as limited by sex, we can understand how these influences
became, in successive generations, cumulative ; while in the fondness
of little girls for dolls we may note a somewhat interesting example
in psychology of the law of inheritance at earlier periods of life, which
Mr. Darwin has shown to be so prevalent in the case of bodily struct-
ures throughout the animal kingdom.
There remains, so far as I can see, but one other cause which can be
assigned of the mental differences between men and women. This
cause is education. Using the term in its largest sense, we may say
that in all stages of culture the education of women has differed widely
from that of men. The state of abject slavery to which woman is con-
signed in the lower levels of human evolution clearly tends to dwarf
her mind ab initio. And as woman gradually emerges from this her
