MENTAL DIFFERENCES OF MEN AND WOMEN 393
primitive and long-protracted condition of slavery, she still continues
to be dominated by the man in numberless ways, which, although of a
less brutal kind, are scarcely less effectual as mentally dwarfing influ-
ences. The stunting tendency upon the female mind of all polygamous
institutions is notorious, and even in monogamous or quasi-monoga,-
mous communities so highly civilized as ancient Greece and pagan
Rome, woman was still, as it were, an intellectual cipher and this at
a time when the intellect of man had attained an eminence which has
never been equaled. Again, for a period of about two thousand years
after that time civilized woman was the victim of what I may term the
ideal of domestic utility a state of matters which still continues in
some of the Continental nations of Europe. Lastly, even when woman
began to escape from this ideal of domestic utility, it was only to fall
a victim to the scarcely less deleterious ideal of ornamentalism. Thus
Sydney Smith, writing in 1810, remarks : A century ago the prevail-
ing taste in female education was for housewifery ; now it is for accom-
plishments. The object now is to make women artists to give them
an excellence in drawing, music, and dancing. It is almost needless
to remark that this is still the prevailing taste ; the ideal of female
education still largely prevalent in the upper classes is not that of men-
tal furnishing, but rather of mental decoration. For it was not until
the middle of the present century that the first attempt was made to
provide for the higher education of women, by the establishment of
Queens College and Bedford College in London. Twenty years later
there followed Girton and Newnham at Cambridge ; later still Lady
Margaret and Somerville at Oxford, the foundation of the Girls Public
Day-Schools Company, the opening of degrees to women at the Uni-
versity of London, and of the honor examinations at Cambridge and
Oxford.
We see, then, that with advancing civilization the theoretical equal-
ity of the sexes becomes more and more a matter of general recognition,
but that the natural inequality continues to be forced upon the obser-
vation of the public mind ; and chiefly on this account although doubt-
less also on account of traditional usage the education of women con-
tinues to be, as a general rule, widely different from that of men. And
this difference is not merely in the positive direction of laying greater
stress on psychological embellishment : it extends also in the negative
direction of sheltering the female mind from all those influences of a
striving and struggling kind, which constitute the practical schooling
of the male intellect. Woman is still regarded by public opinion all
the world over as a psychological plant of tender growth, which needs
to be protected from the ruder blasts of social life in the conservatories
of civilization. And, from what has been said in the earlier part of
this paper, it will be apparent that in this practical judgment I believe
public opinion to be right. I am, of course, aware that there is a small
section of the public composed for the most part of persons who are
