MENTAL DIFFERENCES OF MEN AND WOMEN 395
not, as is probable, to advance with a speed relatively accelerated by
the momentum of its already acquired velocity), it must take many
centuries for heredity to produce the missing five ounces of the female
brain.
In conclusion, a few words may be added on the question of female
education as this actually stands at the present time. Among all the
features of progress which will cause the present century to be regarded
by posterity as beyond comparison the most remarkable epoch in the
history of our race, I believe that inauguration of the so-called womans
movement in our own generation, will be considered one of the most
important. For I am persuaded that this movement is destined to
grow ; that with its growth the highest attributes of one half of the
human race are destined to be widely influenced ; that this influence
will profoundly react upon the other half, not alone in the nursery and
the drawing-room, but also in the study, the academy, the forum, and
the senate ; that this latest yet inevitable wave of mental evolution
can not be stayed until it has changed the whole aspect of civiliza-
tion. In an essay already alluded to, Sydney Smith has remarked,
though not quite correctly, that up to his time there had been no
woman who had produced a single notable work, either of reason or
imagination, whether in English, French, German, or Italian literature.
A few weeks ago Mrs. Favvcett was able to show us that since then
there have been at least forty women who have left a permanent
mark in English literature alone. Now this fact becomes one of great
significance when we remember that it is the result of but the earli-
est phase of the womans movement. For, as already indicated, this
movement is now plainly of the nature of a ferment. When I was
at Cambridge, the then newly-established foundations of Girton and
Newnham were to nearly all of us matters of amusement. But we
have lived to alter our views ; for we have lived to see that that was
but the beginning of a great social change, which has since spread,
and is still spreading, at so extraordinary a rate that we are now
within measurable distance of the time when no English lady will be
found to have escaped its influence. It is not merely that womens
colleges are springing up like mushrooms in all quarters of the king-
dom, or that the old type of young ladies governess is being rapidly
starved out of existence. It is of much more importance even than
this that the immense reform in girls education, which has been so
recently introduced by the Day-Schools Company working in con-
junction with the University Board and local examinations, has al-
ready shaken to its base the whole system, and even the whole ideal,
of female education, so that there is scarcely a private school in the
country which has not been more or less affected by the change. In
a word, whether we like it or not, the womans movement is upon
us ; and what we have now to do is to guide the flood into what
