39 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
seem likely to prove the most beneficial channels. What are these
channels ?
Of all the pricks against which it is hard to kick, the hardest are
those which are presented by Nature in the form of facts. Therefore
we may begin by wholly disregarding those short-sighted enthusiasts
who seek to overcome the natural and fundamental distinction of sex.
No amount of female education can ever do this, nor is it desirable
that it should. On this point I need not repeat what is now so often
and so truly said, as to woman being the complement, not the rival, of
man. But I should like to make one remark of another kind. The
idea underlying the utterances of all these enthusiasts seems to be
that the qualities wherein the male mind excels that of the female are,
sui generis, the most exalted of human faculties : these good ladies
fret and fume in a kind of jealousy that the minds, like the bodies, of
men are stronger than those of women. Now, is not this a radically
mistaken view ? Mere strength, as I have already endeavored to in-
sinuate, is not the highest criterion of nobility. Human nature is a
very complex thing, and among the many ingredients which go to
make the greatness of it even intellectual power is but one, and not by
any means the chief. The truest grandeur of that nature is revealed
by that nature as a whole, and here I think there can be no doubt that
the feminine type is fully equal to the masculine, if indeed it be not
superior. For I believe that if we all go back in our memories to seek
for the highest experience we have severally had in this respect, the
character which will stand out as all in all the greatest we have ever
known, will be the character of a woman. Or, if any of us have not
been fortunate in this matter, where in fiction or in real life can Ave find
a more glorious exhibition of all that is best the mingled strength and
beauty, tact, gayety, devotion, wit, and consummate ability where but
in a woman can we find anything at once so tender, so noble, so lova-
ble, and so altogether splendid as in the completely natural character
of a Portia ? A mere blue-stocking, who looks with envy on the in-
tellectual gifts of a Voltaire, while shutting her eyes to the gifts of a
sister such as this, is simply unworthy of having such a sister : she is
incapable of distinguishing the pearl of great price among the sundry
other jewels of our common humanity.
Now, the suspicion, not to 6ay the active hostility, with which the
so-called womans movement has been met in many quarters, springs
from a not unhealthy ground of public opinion. For there can be no
real doubt that these things are but an expression of the value which
that feeling attaches to all which is held distinctive of feminine char-
acter as it stands. Woman, as she has been bequeathed to us by the
many and complex influences of the past, is recognized as too precious
an inheritance lightly to be tampered with ; and the dread lest any
change in the conditions which have given us this inheritance should
lead, as it were, to desecration, iB in itself both wise and worthy. In
