MENTAL DIFFERENCES OF MEN AND WOMEN. 397
this feeling we have the true safeguard of womanhood ; and we can
hope for nothing better than that the deep, strong voice of social opin-
ion will always be raised against any innovations of culture which may
tend to spoil the sweetest efflorescence of evolution.
But, while we may hope that social opinion may ever continue op-
posed to the womans movement in its most extravagant forms or to
those forms which endeavor to set up an unnatural, and therefore an
impossible, rivalry with men in the struggles of practical life we may
also hope that social opinion will soon become unanimous in its en-
couragement of the higher education of women. Of the distinctively
feminine qualities of mind which are admired as such by all, ignorance
is certainly not one. Therefore learning, as learning, can never tend
to deteriorate those qualities. On the contrary, it can only tend to
refine the already refined, to beautify the already beautiful when
our daughters shall be as corner-stones, polished after the similitude of
a palace. It can only tend the better to equip a wife as the helpmeet
of her husband, and by furthering a community of tastes, to weave
another bond in the companionship of life. It can only tend the better
to prepare a mother for the greatest of her duties forming the tastes
and guiding the minds of her children at a time when these are most
pliable, and under circumstances of influence such as can never again
be reproduced.
It is nearly eighty years ago since this view of the matter was thus
presented to Sydney Smith :
If you educate women to attend to dignified and important subjects, you are
multiplying beyond measure the chances of human improvement by preparing
and medicating those early impressions which always come from the mother,
and which, in the majority of instances, are quite decisive of genius. The in-
struction of women improves the stock of national talents, and employs more
minds for the instruction and improvement of the world : it increases the pleas-
ures of society by multiplying the topics upon which the two sexes take a com-
mon interest, and makes marriage an intercourse of understanding as well as of
affection. The education of women favors public morals; it provides for every
season of life, and leaves a woman when she is stricken by the hand of Time, not
as she now is, destitute of everything and neglected by all, but with the full
power and the splendid attractions of knowledge diffusing the elegance of
polite literature, and receiving the homage of learned and accomplished men.
Since the days when this was written, the experiment of thus edu-
cating women to attend to dignified and important subjects has been
tried on a scale of rapidly-increasing magnitude, and the result has
been to show that those apprehensions of public opinion were ground-
less which supposed that the effect of higher education upon women
would be to deteriorate the highest qualities of womanhood. On this
point I think it is sufficient to quote the opinion of a lady who has
watched the whole course of this experiment, and who is so well quali-
fied to give an opinion that it would be foolish presumption in any
