398 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
one else to dispute what she has to say. The lady to whom I refer is
Mrs. Sidgwick, and this is what she says :
The students tliat I have known have shown no inclination to adopt mascu-
line sentiments or habits in any unnecessary or unseemly degree ; they are dis-
posed to imitate the methods of life and work of industrious undergraduates just
as far as these appear to be means approved by experience to the end which
both sets of students have in common, and nothing that I have seen of them,
either at the university or afterward, has tended in the smallest degree to sup-
port the view that the adaptation of women to domestic life is so artificial and
conventional a thing that a few years of free, unhampered study and varied com-
panionship at the university has a tendency to impair it.
So far as I am aware, only one other argument has been, or can
be, adduced on the opposite side. This argument is that the physique
of young women as a class is not sufficiently robust to stand the strain
of severe study, and therefore that many are likely to impair their
health more or less seriously under the protracted effort and acute
excitement which are necessarily incidental to our system of school
and university examinations. Now, I may begin by remarking that
with this argument I am in the fullest possible sympathy. Indeed, so
much is this the case that I have taken the trouble to collect evidence
from young girls of my own acquaintance who are now studying at
various high-schools with a view to subsequently competing for first
classes in the Cambridge triposes. What I have found is that in some
of these high-schools carefully observe, only in some absolutely no
check is put upon the ambition of young girls to distinguish them-
selves and to bring credit upon their establishments. The conse-
quence is that in these schools the more promising pupils habitually
undertake an amount of intellectual work which it is sheer madness to
attempt. A single quotation from one of my correspondents whom
I have known from a child will be enough to prove this statement :
I never begin work later than six oclock, and never work less than ten or
eleven hours a day. But within a fortnight or so of my examinations I work
fifteen or sixteen hours. Most girls, however, stop at fourteen or fifteen hours,
but some of them go on to eighteen hours. Of course, according to the school
time-tables, none of us should work more than eight hours ; but it is quite im-
possible for any one to get through the work in that time. For instance, in the
time-tables ten minutes is put down for botany, whereas it takes the quickest
girl an hour and a half to answer the questions set by the school lecturer.
These facts speak for themselves, and therefore I will only add
that in many of those high-schools for girls which are situated in
large towns no adequate provision is made for bodily exercise, and
this, of course, greatly aggravates the danger of overwork. In such
a school there is probably no play-ground ; the gymnasium, if there is
one, is not attended by any of the harder students ; drill is never
thought of ; and the only walking exercise is to and from the school.
Let it not be supposed that I am attacking the high-school system.
