MODERN OVER-EDUCATION. 401
as to foster, not to suppress, any gift for art, literature, learning, or
goodness with which woman may be endowed. Then, I say, give her
the apple, and see what comes of it. Unless I am greatly mistaken,
the result will be that which is so philosophically as well as so poeti-
cally portrayed by the Laureate :
The womans cause is mans : they rise or sink
Together, dwarfed or godlike, bond or free.
Then let her make herself her own
To give or keep, to live and learn to be
All that not harms distinctive womanhood.
For woman is not undeveloped man,
But diverse : could we make her as the man,
Sweet Love were slain : his dearest bond is this,
Not like to like, but like in difference.
Yet in the long years liker must they grow ;
The man be more of woman, she of man ;
He gain in sweetness and in moral height,
Nor lose the wrestling thews that throw the world ;
She mental breadth, nor fail in childward care.
Nor lose the child-like iu the larger mind;
Till at the last she set herself to man,
Like perfect music unto noble words.
Then comes the statelier Eden back to men :
Then reign the worlds great bridals, chaste and calm :
Then springs the crowning race of human kind.
May these things be !
Nineteenth Century.
MODERN OVER-EDUCATION.
THE appeal made by Professor Jowett, in the columns of the
Times, for state aid to provincial colleges established to pro-
mote higher education, naturally raises the question how high edu-
cation for the bulk of mankind ought to go. The world has beard
something too much of the subject of late years, and the theme has
been worn rather threadbare. Every lecturer in want of a topic, every
Radical member of Parliament, bound to deliver an address to his con-
stituents, and having exhausted his wrath against the House of Lords
and the landed interest and his ideas on the Irish question, finds an
unfailing resource in discoursing on education, in which he may de-
liver himself of platitudes ad libitum, and raise an approving cheer by
informing his audience for the fiftieth time that knowledge is power.
It has ever been a boon to the Socialists and other democrats, who have
discovered in their scheme of free education a convenient means of
drawing upon the income of one class for the benefit of another. School
vol. xxxi. 26
