MODERN OVER-EDUCATION. 403
enough ; an exception, of course, must be made of those who are in-
tended for a learned profession, and especially of those whose life is
to be spent in instructing others. Clergymen and schoolmasters must
be well instructed, or they can not teach. A certain number of schol-
ars and men of science are necessary, but it is not necessary that any
of us should attempt the acquisition of universal knowledge. It is
not possible, nor desirable, if it were possible, that all should become
Bentleys or Porsons. Education does enough if it puts into the hands
of youth the key of knowledge, and teaches how to use it. It does
too much if it exhausts the brain, and burdens the memory with an
immense number of facts which can not be permanently retained with
sufficient accuracy to be useful, and which as frequently dwarf as en-
large the intellect by checking its tendency to originate. The creative
faculties of the mind are its noblest part, and what encouragement to
them is given by the system of modern education ? An original opin-
ion expressed in an essay may run counter to the prejudices and hurt
the feelings of the examiner, who promptly revenges himself by de-
priving the examinee of the marks to which he is fairly entitled. This
is no imaginary case, but it can be corroborated by many an unlucky
victim of this Chinese system, who has not comprehended that we
have imported with it the Celestial habit of close imitation, and that
we must now not only read but think in a groove, and follow, as closely
as we are able to discover them, the peculiarities of the examiners
mind, after the manner of the Chinese tailor who, being directed to
make a European coat on the model of an old one supplied to him, re-
produced it in facsimile, patches and all. Fortunately, most of these
professors have written books ; it is, therefore, in most cases easy
enough to win their good graces by a slavish imitation, which is said
to be the most delicate and seductive kind of flattery. Thus both are
ingeniously demoralized, and learning certainly is not advanced. But
are not the advantages of education, even of the best, greatly over-
rated? One spark of genius is worth all that was ever taught in
schools. Who are the men who have enlightened and transformed
the world ? Certainly not the most highly educated. It might almost
be maintained that those who have done most have learned least from
others. Alexander the Great, indeed, was highly educated for his
time, but, as he began active life at sixteen, when he commanded
a wing of his fathers army at the battle of Chseronea, he had not
leisure to acquire much ; and it may safely be affirmed that it was
not the precepts of Aristotle which showed him how to overthrow the
Persian Empire, and leave a name which will be remembered as long
as the world shall last. His acute intellect, his daring spirit, his
boundless ambition, resistless and untiring energy, and his iron will
were his instructors, and made him the master of the world. Sweet-
est Shakespeare, Fancys child, did not acquire the power to warble
his native wood-notes wild at the village school, which yet prepared
