3 z THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
can understand how a man might obtain such an acquaintance with
the literary or artistic style of some human author or artist, as should
embolden him to pronounce an opinion as to whether a certain piece of
work was or \v:is not from the masters hand ; but we do not see that
any one has it in his power so to con the works of Deity as to author-
ize him in Baying that he knows the Divine style, and is therefore in a
position to decide which of two plans of action is most in harmony
therewith. We have before us simply the facts that Nature presents ;
our task is to see these in the most rational order possible, knowing
well that, however enlarged our knowledge may become, a p rj\ ct in-
terpretation of the facts will forever be beyond our reach. Whatever
view, therefore, may at any moment best colligate and harmonize the
phenomena of the universe, that view if we are going to concern our-
selves with Divine plans we must regard as most nearly revealing the
Divine plan. But to allow our interpretation of the phenomena to be
overborne and controlled by any a priori conceptions, such as Mr. Cur-
tis seeks to force upon us, of the Divine nature and attributes, is simply
to abandon science and betake ourselves to dogma and mysticism.
Now, to be quite frank, we dont believe Mr. Curtis is one bit better
a judge of the Divine style in creation than the very humblest among
us. It is puzzling enough to know how merely superior human facul-
ties will work. The child can not understand the mind of its father
in matters beyond its own experience, and can not sec the wisdom of
its fathers actions. The inferior man can not understand the mind of
the superior man. We can hardly imagine anything more ridiculous,
certainly nothing more hopeless, than an attempt by weak or unde-
veloped minds to comprehend the workings or appraise the manifesta-
tions of minds of a higher order ; yet what is the interval between the
youngest child and its parent, between the most uninstrueted peasant
and the mightiest philosopher, compared with that existing hot ween,
say, Mr. Curtis, and that mind which he proclaims to be infinite, yet
offers to interpret for us ? Surely, then, it is not without good reason
that the leading scientific investigators of our dav have decided on
conducting their researches in entire independence of all theological
assumptions. They feel instinctively that the moment they begin to
draw deductions from theological premises, even the most plausible,
their conclusions cease to have scientific validity, ami that science
itself becomes a mere aborted appendage to theology.
It is time, however, to proceed to a somewhat closer examination
of the work before us. The author is much struck, in the first place,
with the parallel he finds existing between the Platonic theory (or
rather myth) of creation as developed in the Timoeus and the Dar-
winian theory of the origin of species, including the human. We
fail, for our part, to see much resemblance between a myth in which
everything which is referred to the arbitrary and purposive acts of an
imaginary divinity, and a scientific theory which ascribes all growth
