4 o + THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
him sufficiently to enable Lira to display his genius. Newton as a boy
was averse to study, and though he took a degree at Cambridge, it
was not that of senior wrangler, yet what mathematician has equaled
him in reputation, or in the importance of his discoveries ? Watt, the
inventor of the steam-engine, and Whitworth, who made the tools by
the use of which it has been brought to its present perfection, were
both self-taught. The same may be said of Arkwright, and almost
every discoverer who has been a real public benefactor. In the loftier
ranks of the leaders of mankind education has never played an im-
portant part. Cromwells youth was passed in idleness and obscurity ;
he had no instruction even in the military art, in which he had no rival
in his day.
Lord Beaconsfield was never at a public school, nor passed through
a university, and all the education he ever received appears to have
been what would now be thought merely rudimentary, but it was
enough for him. His stores of knowledge must have been acquired
only by reading ; but this armory, in his skillful hands, provided him
with weapons quite adequate to an encounter with even his most for-
midable adversaries. The world is not governed, or even perceptibly
influenced, by professors or Admirable Crichtons. It is ruled by men
of action. The daring genius of Clive did more for England, and
even for the advancement of the human race, by establishing that
Pax-Britannica, under w T hich 140,000,000 human beings now enjoy
protection and prosperity, than all the learning of the schools. . . .
The only education worthy of the name is that which, by hardening
and invigorating the frame, lays the foundation of health of body and
mind, Avhich forms the character, imparts sufficient knowledge to enable
each individual to cultivate the special taste which Nature has given
him, and, instead of teaching only the art of passing examinations, en-
deavors to inspire all with the solid virtues of courage, self-reliance,
honor, and religion, and makes a living, thinking, acting being, full of
resource, spirit, and energy, not a walking encyclopaedia in one word,
a man, and not a professor. Land and Water.
SKETCH OF ISAAC LEA.
FEW naturalists have enjoyed a longer working-life, or been able
to make it more fruitful in finished achievement, than Isaac Lea.
His first paper, being a simple account of the minerals then known to
exist in the vicinity of Philadelphia, was published in 1818. Addi-
tions to this contribution were made but slowly for a few years, but
as the list swelled they become frequent, giving evidence of indefati-
gable industry in research ; and the last paper, standing as No. 279 on
the catalogue, is dated 1876, closing a record of fifty-eight years of
productive activity. During most of this time Dr. Lea was associated
