4 o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
east. This hypothesis was verified in 1852 by Captain McClures
making the passage in the direction described.
As Mr. Lea advanced in his geological studies, he found that it was
necessary to know something of shells. In order to study their genera
as described by Lamarck, he imported a large collection of shells from
China. He soon became interested in this branch of the science, and
ultimately made it the leading object of his researches. A collection
of several species of Unio, including some beautiful and rare specimens,
was sent to the Academy of Natural Sciences, in 1825, by Major Long,
of the Engineer Corps, who had obtained them in dredging the chan-
nel of the Ohio River below Louisville. At about the same time, Mr.
Leas brother Thomas, having engaged to look after the shells in the
vicinity of Cincinnati, where he was living, shipped a barrel of shells
of rare beauty, including six new species. The description of these
specimens Description of Six New Specimens of the Genus Unio
presented to the American Philosphical Society in 1827, formed the
first of that long series of papers on the Unio and allied shells which
constitute the chief of Mr. Leas works. Yet, at the time he presented
it, he had no thought that he should ever have another word to say on
the subject, for at that time no one conceived the infinite variety of
species of the family which American waters are now known to con-
tain. As a side-result of Mr. Leas interest in the Unios may be men-
tioned the conversion of his brother from an indifferent barreler of
shells for another to an enthusiastic student of land-shells and botany,
and to be the author of a monograph on The Plants of Cincinnati.
Dr. Lea spent the traveling season of 1832 in Europe, where the
journal of his excursions is a record of successive introductions to famous
scientific men, and interesting conversations with them, in which he was
never the onlv one who received information. In London he attended
a meeting of the Geological Society, and met most of the leading geolo-
gists of Great Britain. At Oxford, he attended the second meeting
of the British Association, over which Dr. Buckland presided. Meet-
ing Dr. Buckland afterward in London, the conversation turned upon
the quantity of coal in the United States. Dr. Buckland thought we
had very little coal. Dr. Lea pointed out on a map the coal-fields of
the United States as they were then known. After several hours
spent in the examination of the matter, Dr. Buckland taking notes all
the time, the distinguished geologit remarked, as he took his leave to
meet an engagement, that England had enough coal to supply the
United States when its supply should fail. Dr. Lea replied that the
quantity of anthracite and bituminous coal was almost unlimited in
North America, and promised to send him maps and sections that
would satisfy him upon the subject. He fulfilled his promise after
he returned home, and, upon the evidence thus afforded, Dr. Buckland
presented a paper to the next meeting of the British Association on
the extent of our coal-supply. At the British Museum, by the re-
