SKETCH OF ISAAC LEA. 407
quest of Dr. Gray, Dr. Lea went over the collection of the Unionidce,
arranged and named them correctly, and added some new species from
the United States. He called, in Paris, on Baron Ferussac, the emi-
nent student of terrestrial and fluviatile mollusca, who was then en-
gaged in preparing his great work on the Unionidce. During the con-
versation the baron complimented Dr. Lea by saying that he could not
go on with his work until he (Dr. Lea) had finished his memoirs. Dr.
Lea afterward spent several hours in going over the barons collections,
which contained Unionidce from Brazil, Syria, Turkey, and Egypt,
and rearranging it, cutting down the species and forming numerous
synonyms. Afterward, he met Blainville, Ferussac, and others at the
Jardin des Plantes, to arrange and name all the Unionidce of the col-
lection there, to which he added fourteen species. From Studer, the
elder, in Berne, he received the last copy in the authors possession of
his work on the land and fresh-water shells of Switzerland, and com-
pliments on the papers he had himself written. At Paris, again, he
examined the Unionidce in the Due de Rivolis collection, which con-
tained all those of Lamarck, and was thereby able to identify all of
Lamarcks species in his subsequent memoir. Calling on M. Gay by
invitation, he was shown all the mollusca which that naturalist had
collected in his travels, and was invited to select a specimen of each.
Thus he found the most eminent naturalists everywhere, on the
strength of the few papers he had published on American mollusca,
ready to welcome him as one of themselves, and to receive instruction
from him. Their general message to him was to go on with the in-
vestigations he had begun, with the assurance that no naturalist in
America or Europe had the advantages that he possessed.
On returning home in November, 1832, he found that he had been
anticipated in a work he should have done on the Tertiary shells of
Alabama, but, having specimens of the species in his cabinet, he pre-
pared a paper, Contributions to Geology, which he presented to
the Academy of Natural Sciences in August, 1833. It contained
two hundred and twenty-one species. His Synopsis of the Family
Naiades, published in 1836, and afterward supplemented and ex-
panded, is said to have settled satisfactorily to most conchologists the
synonymy of the species. On receiving it, Prince Charles Bonaparte
expressed a desire to see all parts of zoology treated in the same man-
ner. In 1849 Dr. Lea presented a paper on the foot-marks of the reptile
Sauropus primcevus, found by him in the red shales at Pottsville,
Pennsylvania, seventeen hundred feet below the conglomerate, which
was of interest on account of the discussion it excited as to the age of
the fossil. The foot-prints were assigned to the old red sandstone,
while Professor Agassiz had declared that he did not believe that any
air-breathing animals had existed before the new red sandstone. The
discussion was kept up for several years, in the course of which Dr.
Lea reiterated and maintained his position that the fossil was what he
