4 o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
represented it, and tbat the formation in which it was found was the
one indicated by Rogers as No. XI. Its interest has since been dimin-
ished by tbe discovery and authentication of fossils of air-breathers in
still older formations. Another series of papers of peculiar interest
was tbat concerning the fossil saurian of the new red sandstone
( Clepsysaurus Pennsylvanicus).
Having retired from business in 1851, Dr. Lea made another visit
to Europe in 1852. Many of the incidents of his previous visit were
substantially repeated, but in large part with naturalists of another
generation tban those whom he had met before. At Paris he arranged
and named the Unionidw in the cabinets of the eminent conchologists
Boivin and Petit. He called upon Dr. Cbenu to look for the original
specimen of Mulleria of Ferussac, which had never been figured, but
simply described as being in Lamarcks collection. He told Dr.
Chenu that he thought it must have been mixed with the Etheria, of
which the collection had many specimens. Dr. Chenu declared this
could not be so, or he would have seen it. As soon as he pulled out
the drawer, Dr. Lea saw at a glance the identical specimen which
Ferussac had described. He took it up and declared this to be it.
Both the naturalists were surprised and delighted. . . . Thus Dr. Leas
theory of the genus Acostea, of DOrbigny, was complete it was a
Mulleria. At Vienna he showed the Austrian naturalists some feat-
ures in their species and specimens which had escaped their eyes. At
Berlin he found Humboldt and other distinguished men of science
much interested in what was going on in geology in the United States.
At a dinner with the Philosophical Club in London, Sir Charles Lyell
gave him credit for being the first and only one who had yet observed
an air-breathing animal in so ancient a rock as that in which the Sau-
ropus primcevus occurred, and added that the Clepsysaurus Pennsylva-
nicus was the first discovery of bones in the new red sandstone, although
a jaw of a similar animal had since been found. Colonel Sabine exhib-
ited a bottle which he supposed had come through Behring Strait from
Japan, which Dr. Lea was able to claim as a verification of his theory
of a west-to-cast Arctic current.
On his return home in November, 1853, Dr. Lea found an accumu-
lation of correspondence and specimens awaiting his attention that
hardly diminished, so incessant were the fresh arrivals, during the
remainder of his active life, or for twenty-five years. Among his
new Southern and Southwestern correspondents was Bishop Elliott, of
Georgia, who became greatly interested in the mollusca of that State,
and engaged others in interest in the subject and in collecting shells.
The scientific researches of Dr. Lea were continued, with constant pub-
lications, until 1877, when a sudden illness which came upon him in
Southern California disabled him from further vigorous work. He
still, however, continued to add to his collections and perform such
work upon them as his strength would allow. He gave much attention
