EDITORS TABLE.
4 l 3
(who does not even know that fossil
remains of man were ever found) does
with all of us tells us, if we want to
be satisfied as to the age of the human
species, to dismiss geology altogether,
and betake ourselves to the guidance
of a long-deceased chronologist ! Prob-
ably the dean will never know what a
lamentable exhibition he has made of
himself never know that, while deny-
ing the existence of fossil man, he gave
in his own person an unequaled speci-
men of a fossilized human intellect. It
seems to us not unlikely that, years
hence, the deans Fortnightly article
will be quoted as one of the latest exam-
ples of an extreme type of clerical igno-
rance, on scientific subjects ; just as we
now indicate the period when the cave-
bear and mammoth bade adieu to this
terrestrial scene. It will be a happy
thing, indeed, to bave such ignorance
safely packed away among the treas-
ures of the past.
But now appears another phase in
tbe controversy referred to. The Rev.
W. Benham, who describes himself as
a conservative, both in theology and
in politics, undertakes to answer both
Canon Fremautle, the Broadchurch-
man, and his assailant Dean Burgon.
Naturally, Mr. Benham does not go as
far as Canon Fremantle ; but he makes
one very important statement, and that
is, that the majority of the clergy, so
far as his acquaintance extends, seem
to assume the truth of the doctrine of
evolution. If a man of conservative
tendencies is able to say as much as
this of the clerical brethren with whom
he most consorts, and who, we may
presume, are in the main conservatives
also, it is evident that thought is mov-
ing fast in the Church of England.
THE FIGnT AGAINST POVERTY.
As most of our readers are aware,
an association has lately been formed
in this city under the title of the Anti-
Poverty Society. It proposes to ex-
tirpate poverty by throwing the whole
burden of taxation upon land. One
may be allowed to doubt how far the
proposed remedy, if found to be appli-
cable, would go toward accomplishing
the result desired ; but, that poverty is
an evil, and that the best efforts of mod-
ern society should be devoted to re-
moving it, admits of no doubt. If the
Anti-Poverty Society accomplishes no
other good object, we trust it will at
least, during the term of its existence,
help to render the community more
deeply sensible of its duty in this mat-
ter. When we speak of the community,
however, we mean its individual mem-
bers in their several private capacities,
rather than the community as a politi-
cally organized body. We are not of
those who hold that in legislation is to
be found the cure for all social ills. On
the contrary, we should be disposed to
class what we may call the legislation-
habit with what has been called the
alcohol-habit in this important re-
spect, that each implies resort to an ar-
tificial stimulus as a remedy for consti-
tutional weaknesses in one case in the
social organism, in the other in the in-
dividual human body. Both involve
distrust of, or disregard for, hygienic
measures and the discipline of Nature ;
and both stand in the way of Natures
restorative action. If poverty is to be
cured, we believe it can only be through
the more general application of those
principles and methods by which it is
already warded off from the larger por-
tion of society. The problem that has
to be faced is the serious one of ren-
dering every individual in the commu-
nity fit to earn a maintenance for him-
self. Such fitness implies freedom from
habits that are a burden upon life, from
a physical or from any other point
of view. Let the advocates of drastic
measures of legislative reform say what
they will, the fact remains that, given
a certain measure of well-directed fac-
ulty, and success in the struggle of life
becomes a sure thing. Instances abound
in every country, but nowhere so much
as in our own, in which men have risen,
