CREATION OR EVOLUTION? 33
and development to the unceasing operation of laws inherent (as would
appear) in things themselves. What strikes us with wonder, however,
is that our author, after explaining that on Platos theory man was
first made, and after him the other animals in the order of their dig-
nity, the lowest forms of aquatic life coming last, should proceed to
say that there is as much in Nature to support this view of creation
as to support the Darwinian theory, according to which life, beginning
with the lowliest forms, worked upward to the highest. These are his
words : Xor had Plato less of probability to support bis theory than
Darwin to support his. ... If Plato had known as much about the
animal kingdom as is now known, he could have arrayed the same
facts in support of his theory by an argument as powerful as that
which now supports the doctrine of evolution (pp. 73, 74). This, in
face of the fact that the geological record is there for every one who
has eyes to read, showing that the highest forms of life were not first
in the order of creation or development, but last, and the lowest forms
first ! Surely it is not the doctrine of evolution that will suffer by
such an attack as this. The influence of the postulate must have
been making itself very strongly felt when the author contrived to
overlook simply the broadest, the most conspicuous, and the most im-
portant fact of all bearing on the question of the relative claims of
the two theories he was comparing. It is not an encouraging example
of the effect of theological or metaphysical prepossessions. The Pla-
tonic theory of the soul has also, it would seem, made much impression
on our author. The Demiurgus makes it entirely distinct from mat-
ter, and places it in some star, where it is to await the birth of the
body with which it is destined to be united, and which it is to govern,
if it can, according to the eternal laws of reason and rectitude. If
it succeeds in this duty, it flies back at the death of the body to its
own star ; if not, it passes into some more degraded body, for the pur-
pose, apparently, of getting another chance under worse conditions.
Stripped, says the writer, of the machinery by which Plato sup-
poses the soul to have come into existence, his conception of its origin
and its nature is the most remarkable contribution which philosophy,
apart from the aid of what is called inspiration, has made to our means
of speculating upon this great theme. Surely it is not our means of
speculating upon this or any other theme that we want to have en-
larged ; it is our knowledge of the facts of the case ; in general, the
less we know the more freely we can speculate. We fail to see that
as a contribution to knowledge the Platonic conception is of any value
whatever.
The strictly scientific arguments brought by our author against the
doctrine of evolution present, we feel justified in saying, no character of
originality. They are such as every one in the least acquainted with
the literature of the subject is thoroughly familiar with. Against Dar-
win is urged the absence of the intermediate forms which, upon his
VOL. xxxi. 3
