4H
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not only from the humblest but from
the most disadvantageous beginnings to
positions of wealth and influence. It
is all a question of fitness. In the so-
cial sphere, as elsewhere, the fit will
survive and flourish ; the pre-eminently
fit will flourish pre-eminently. It may
be that pre-eminent fitness for present
social conditions may not imply ideal
excellence of character ; no doubt it
does not; still the fact remains that
success is a question of adaptation, and
that want of success or poverty means
non-adaptation.
All this may seem very trite, but it
would not be safe to argue that because
a thing is trite all the good it is capa-
ble of yielding has been extracted from
it. In the general craze for novelty,
old truths are abandoned before they
have been half worked out. The theo-
ries of the Anti-Poverty Society are
very taking with the multitude ; but we
venture to predict that, after they have
had their day, men will find that there
is still much to do on the old lines to
which we are now calling attention.
The way to kill poverty, we hold, is to
kill it individually that is to say, to
bring such influences to bear on the
unfit as shall render them fit; to make
war against idleness, inefficiency, stu-
pidity, extravagance, weak self-indul-
gence, and all else that makes for
poverty either by diminishing the pro-
ductiveness of labor or by promoting
undue consumption. It is sometimes
held that the laboring classes do not
get their fair share of the proceeds of
their industry ; but the fact is not in-
sisted on as it might be that the share
they get will at any given time be di-
rectly proportional to their own in-
herent merits as workers and as men.
The question is how near can they
come to negotiating on a footing of per-
fect equality with the employers of la-
bor, and that depends upon the bearing
and attitude which they are enabled to
assume. A body of thoroughly intelli-
gent and self-respecting men, with es-
tablished habits of self-control and gen-
eral capacity for self-guidance, would
enter upon the negotiation with far
better chances of concluding it to their
satisfaction than would a body of men
less intelligent and less under moral
control, even allowing the latter the
benefit of all the most improved ap-
pliances for industrial war, including
street -rioting and the persecution of
scabs. It is mainly a moral and in-
tellectual reform that is wanted ; and
we are far from saying that it is wanted
only in the ranks of those who earn
their bread by the labor of their hands.
No serious person can consider the ex-
travagance which now marks the ex-
penditure of the middle and upper class-
es (if we may without offense use such
terms as these to indicate comparative
degrees of wealth), without feeling that
a bad example of profusion and osten-
tation is shown to the wage-earners
that a wrong ideal of life is set before
them. It is true now, as ever, that a
mans life consisteth not in the abun-
dance of the things that he possesseth ;
but it hardly seems as if any one to-day
believed it. The majority at least only
seem to live in proportion as they sur-
round themselves with visible and tan-
gible evidences of their material pros-
perity. One consequence very im-
portant in relation to our present sub-
ject is that a standard of living is
set up which not all who become ac-
customed to it can permanently main-
tain ; and thus extravagance leads to
poverty. How many are miserably poor
to-day whose parents brought them up
in comfort, if not in affluence! We
say miserably poor, because poverty
is never so miserable as when compli-
cated with vain regrets and a general
sense of disinheritance and decay. If
we would fight against poverty, there-
fore, we must fight against it every-
where, and try to make all classes ot
society understand that life is a strug-
gle for which a definite equipment is
required, and that no part of that equip-
ment is more essential than moderation
of desire. Much, also, as the Malthu-
