4i 6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ent forms the debt may take, floating debts
should be but sparingly used ; voluntary
loans appeal to the only reliable motive on
which to rest a credit policy ; bonds are
preferable to annuities ; and while Govern-
ment may use its discretion in fixing times
of payment, loans should be placed at par
rather than at discount. At the close of a
war, floating debts should receive immedi-
ate attention, and a policy of contraction
should be set on foot to meet the case of
irredeemable paper notes. In peace man-
agement, the financier should have regard
to the need of investors in giving shape to
the public debt ; should be able to work wise-
ly when he comes in contact with the money
market, and harmoniously with all laws af-
fecting or affected by his securities ; and
should have clear views respecting the
policy of conversion. The policy of debt-
payment as opposed to holding on till the
indebtedness is overtaken by the growth of
the country in wealth is defended, but it
should not be pushed so rapidly as to force
the rate of business profit below the rate
necessary to sustain industrial hopefulness.
The best method of payment is that of mak-
ing permanent appropriation to the service
of the debt, leaving the administration large
discretion in its application.
In the third part Local Deficit Finan-
ciering a review of the past experiences
and present condition of the States and mu-
nicipalities in financial management leads
up to inquiries into the causes of municipal
corruption, and the expediency of limiting
the power of cities and States to borrow
money. Municipal corruption is regarded
as merely a symptom of deep-seated disor-
der in the body politic, and not a distinct
aud independent evil. The final explana-
tion of the phenomena is to be found in the
fact that the present organization of society
does not properly correlate public and pri-
vate activity. Private business and the serv-
ice of corporations offer more attractive ca-
reers than municipal office, and secure the
service of the best men. The remedy for
corruption is, then, to enlarge the scope and
legitimate emolument of municipal life, so
that the best men may also be attracted to it ;
and this should be supplemented by the en-
forcement of personal responsibility. While
the evils against which the restrictions of
the freedom of States and municipalities in
financial and industrial matters have been
directed, arc acknowledged to have been real
evils, the method that has been adopted of
curing them is believed to have brought
great danger to society. In this sphere re-
gard must be had (or our institutions are
imperiled) to the two fundamental princi-
ples of republicanism : that all concentra-
tion of power should be held to strict ac-
countability ; and that the exercise of all
responsible power should lie as closely as
possible to the people upon whom it is to
fall. The present standing of private cor-
porations before the law contradicts the first
rule ; for these corporations are practical-
ly irresponsible to the people by whose fa-
vor they exist, and whom they pretend to
serve. Popular liberty could be menaced
by no greater danger. The growing impor-
tance of the Federal Government threatens
to disregard the second rule, that respon-
sible power should lie as closely as possible
to those upon whom it is exercised. Yet
the financial disabilities under which the
States rest have placed them hors de combat ;
and, without some radical modification of
existing relations between the various cen-
ters of government, the pressure of coming
events will inevitably lead to an extension
of administrative functions under the direct
control of Congress. Moreover, as the coun-
try becomes more populous, and its various
relations more complex, the functions of
government must necessarily extend to con-
tinually new objects. The States are the
proper center for their exercise, but they
are considered as being in no position for
performing the duty, having been deprived
of the facilities for undertaking it by a se-
ries of mistakes. Hence, we have reason
to regard villi solicitude the next step in
the development of the industrial constitu-
tion of the United States.
The author has evidently endeavored to
view judicially the various questions he has
raised, and has given a book full of thoughts
which it was well to have presented.
Oil and Natural Gas in Illinois. By
Theodore B. Cojistock. Tp. 15.
The author in this paper, which was read
before the Illinois Engineers and Survey-
ors Association, discusses the probability
