LITERARY NOTICES.
417
of finding oil and ga8 in paying quantities
within the limits of the State and the dis-
tricts in which searching for them will be
most hopeful. He believes that the accu-
mulation of oil is connected with certain
uplifts of the strata indicating faults, and
points out certain lines of such dislocations
as regions in which the discovery of oil or
gas is more or less probable.
Proceedings and Transactions of the Sci-
entific Association. Meriden, Conn.
1885-86. Charles H. S. Davis, M. D.,
Secretary. Pp. 64.
The Association, at the beginning of its
sixth year, had one hundred and thirty
members. Nine papers were read before it
in 1885 and eight in 1886 ; an excursion was
made to the Portland quarries ; and among
the lecturers in lSSe-W were Alfred Rus-
sel Wallace and Professor Alexander Win-*
chell. The volume of the Transactions con-
tains an account of the Catopterus gracilis,
a fossil fish found at Little Falls, by Dr. Da-
vis ; a study of the Hanging Hills, as the
trap ridge at Meriden is called, by J. H.
Chapin, D. D. ; A Notice of Certain Fossil
Plants in the Quarries at Durham ; A List
of the Birds of Meriden, by Franklin Piatt ;
Additional Plants found growing at Meri-
den, by Mrs. C. B. Kendrick ; and a poem
on West Peak, and what it saith, by the
Rev. J. T. Pettes.
A Century of Electricity. By T. C. Men-
denhall. Boston : Houghton, Mifflin
Co. Pp. 229. Price, $1.25.
In this book Professor Mendenhall has
presented within a small compass an ac-
count free from technicalities, of the growth
of the worlds knowledge of electricity and
its applications. The frictional electric ma-
chine, the Leyden-jar, and Franklins light-
ning-rod, represented about all that was
known concerning electricity in 1786, when
Galvani turned a gastronomic delicacy to ac-
count as an instrument for scientific research.
Voltas invention of the battery, or pile,
followed within the next decade, and made
possible the rapid progress in electrical
discovery which followed. Nicholson, Car-
lisle, Davy, Wollaston, and Daniell, are
some of the prominent names of the next
few years.
In 1820, Oersted, the son of a Danish
vol. xxxi. 27
apothecary, who had become Professor of
Physics in the University of Copenhagen,
discovered the action of a current of elec-
tricity on a suspended magnetic needle.
Within one week after hearing of Oersteds
discovery, Ampere had worked out the fun-
damental principles on which rests the whole
science of electro-dynamics. The credit of
discovering that electro-magnets of great
power may be made by winding the core
with manv turns of insulated wire, belongs
to an American Joseph Henry and the
telegraph was first made a permanent com-
mercial success by another American Pro-
fessor Morse although various forms of
the needle-telegraph had appeared in Rus-
sia, Germany, and England.
Multiplex telegraphy and the use of sub-
marine cables are extensions which followed
in due time. With the discoveries of Gal-
vani and Oersted must be ranked another,
by Faraday, on which rest nearly all the
more recent and more striking applications
of the electric current. This was the dis-
covery of electro-magnetic induction. The
dynamo-electric machine, and with it the
commercial use of the electric light, were
thus made possible. The discovery that the
dynamo is reversible, i. e., that it will run as
a motor if a current is supplied, opened the
way for the next great step, hardly yet con-
summated, the electric transmission of force.
Meanwhile electricity had been set at work
in the domain of acoustics also, and that
wonderful invention, the telephone, was pro-
duced. The development of electrical stor-
age, and the direct production of electricity
from heat, belong rather to the coming than
to the completed Century of Electricity.
The Story of Ancient Egypt. By George
Rawlinson, with the Collaboration of
Arthur Gilman. New York : G. P. Put-
nams Sons. Pp. 408. Price, $1.50.
The history of this most ancient of the
empires of the earth, with its old and ad-
vanced civilization, is here told in a con-
nected, current manner, more satisfactorily
than in any other book for popular reading
with which we are acquainted. The history
of Egypt is in fact hard to present accept-
ably to the general public. The ancient
writers upon whom we once depended were
inadequate and contradictory. The modern
sources the recovered monuments and in-
