418
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
scriptions are suggestive as to what the
facts may have been, rather than satisfying
as to what they were ; and the gaps between
them are so numerous and so wide as to
make a complete restoration of the history
6till impracticable. Hence wide differences
of opinion as to many of the essential feat-
ures still prevail among those who are
equally entitled to be regarded as authori-
ties. Yet great advances have been made
in the study, and a large number of the
more important facts have been made cer-
tain. They are almost enough to give us
the clew to the course of the history from
the beginning. These facts the authors
have sifted from the conjectures and specu-
lations and discussions of controverted points
with which the literature respecting ancient
Egypt is encumbered, and have presented
them in their order, and with reference to
their bearing ; and they have thus given, in
a readable shape, a notion of what is actu-
ally known on the subject.
The Story of the Normans. Told chiefly
in Relation to the Conquest of England.
By Sarah Orne Jewett. New York:
G. P. Putnams Sons. Pp. 373. Price,
$1.50.
This is one of the volumes of the hap-
pily conceived Story of the Nations se-
ries, and the one, perhaps, of those which
have been published, that possesses the
most immediate interest to American read-
ers, as telling of a people through whom, in
more than one sense, we partly derive our
ancestry and our institutions. The story is
presented in the attractive form of a run-
ning narrative, in which, while the history
is faithfully adhered to and presented in its
connection, 6cope is given for the full play
of the romantic features and lively incidents
which appear to be inseparable from our
conceptions of Norman history, feudalism,
and the life of the middle ages.
The Annual Index to Periodicals for
1886. Bangor, Me. : Q. P. Index, Pub-
lisher. Pp. 27.
This is the sixth annual issue of this In-
dex and the second in the series of Cumu-
lative Indexes. It furnishes a complete
index for the year to more than twenty-seven
periodicals. By a system of notation which,
odd as it looks at first, is easily learned and
proves to be simple when learned, articles
are referred to their authors and authors to
their articles, and both to the precise issues
of the several magazines in which they ap-
pear. Another set of symbols indicates the
precise character of the several articles,
The whole is put into so compact a shape
that the present thin volume contains six-
teen hundred and eighty-eight separate en-
tries.
First Book of Chemistry: A Course of
Simple Experiments for Beginners at
Home and in Primary Schools. By
Mary Shaw Brewster. New York :
D. Appleton Co. Pp. 144. Price,
77 cents.
To make the educational influence of the
study of chemistry available for young pu-
pils is the object of this little hand-book.
In the words of the preface, It aims to
stimulate in the beginner, by the natural
method of observation and experiment, a
desire to know about every-day phenomena
to lead him to question for himself, and
then to answer his own inquiry, not by ap-
pealing to book or teacher, but by refer-
ence to the facts presented. Generally
the pupil is told only how to proceed, and
is left to discover the results of experi-
ments by his own observation. Only those
experiments are employed whose bearings
can be readily comprehended, and which
can be performed with utensils and materi-
als found in the homes and stores of any
village. But little of chemical theory or
nomenclature has been introduced. The
pupil is first led to observe the difference
between a mixture and a chemical com-
pound, and is further made acquainted with
chemical affinity, solution, crystallization,
precipitation, filtration, and other funda-
mental ideas and processes. Then, after a
presentation of the properties of acids, bases
and salts, the common elements are taken
up separately. The book is illustrated, and
contains lists of apparatus and materials
needed for experiments.
Report of the Ladies Health Protective
Association of New York. 1885-86.
Mrs. M. J. Herbert, Secretary. Pp. 15.
The Association was organized in No-
vember, 1884, for the purpose of dealing
with some of the east-side nuisances of
