420
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
complete, but certainly, in respect of volume
and mass of information, the book before
us is well ahead of its rivals. It includes
nearly everything of interest, both as to Eu-
rope and America, relating to commerce,
industry, agriculture, manufactures, finance,
education, politics, and history. Elaborate
tables, embodying the latest results, and in
many cases comparative tables showing the
aggregates of different years from a decade
to a half-century, enable one to grasp the
growth of each interest at a moments
glance. It may be said that in all such books
it is not practicable to secure an orderly
and systematic arrangement. Mr. McCarty
has met the difficulty as well as possible by
giving a very thorough index to the con-
tents. The material seems to have been
gathered with great care and industry, and
presumably the citations of figures are
trustworthy, except so far as errors have
crept in through bad proof-reading. Mr.
McCartys plan appears to have been to
make this a most exhaustive book of its
class, and in the extent of the field he cov-
ers he has not fallen short of his aim. It
is not easy to overrate the amount of labor
essential in the compilation of such a work,
and its value to the public is in direct ratio.
About one half of the book is devoted to
the United States. In addition to statistical
matter proper there are about one hundred
pages devoted to scientific, mechanical, and
commercial facts and formulas.
Thoughts on Science, Theology and Eth-
ics. By John Wilson, M. A. London :
Triibner Co., pp. 197.
The object of this little book, says
the preface, is to give a correct sketch of
the main lines of modern thought in small
compass and in language simple enough to
be easily understood. This object, it seems
to us, has been attained with more than
usual success. It is an excellent work to
put into the hands of the young who are
beginning to think and seeking to learn how
to think. The distinction drawn between
science and theology with respect to the
meaning of the word God illustrates the
theoretical doctrines of the author. God,
he says, is the Omnipotent Power which
exists behind the facts of the universe.
Of this power science asserts the existence
to be a necessary supposition, but the na-
ture to be to us unknowable and incon-
ceivable. Theology, on the other hand, as-
serts its nature to be known, and conceives
it to be manlike. This is exceedingly well
put. Proceeding from this declaration, the
points of opposition between science and
theology arc made very clear. The neces-
sity of a scientific foundation for ethics is
set forth in the second part of the work.
The first part treats, in successive chapters
of What is Science ? What is the Use
of Science? and The Methods of Sci-
ence. Part second deals with The Object
and Scope of Ethics, The Origin and
Nature of the Moral Code, and The Sanc-
tion of the Moral Code. We hope this
meritorious book will be widely circulated.
VAN NOSTRANDS SCIENCE SEEIE8.
No. 90. Analysis of Rotary Motion, as
applied to the Gyroscope. By Major
J. G. Barnard, A. M. New York : D.
Van Nostrand. Pp. 66. Price, 50 cents.
Major Barnards analysis, which is here
republished, is based on the works of Pois-
on. The author shows first how the par-
ticular equations of the gyroscopic motion
may be deduced from the general equations
of rotary motion, and then points out that
the analytical results arrived at contain
within themselves the sole clew to the visi-
ble phenomenon, and dispel all that is mys-
terious and paradoxical.
No. 91. Leveling ; Barometric, Trigo-
nometric, and Spirit. By Ira 0. Ba-
ker, C. E. New York : D. Van Nos-
trand. Pp. 145. Price, 50 cents.
The matter in this treatise forms a part
of the lectures on geodesy given by the au-
thor to his classes at the University of Illi-
nois, and is published for the use of his
own and other students. The author docs
not claim that there is anything new or
original in the volume; but he has com-
bined in a single book information that here-
tofore could only be found scattered through
many. His object has been to give all that
was necessary for a thorough comprehen-
sion of the principles involved, and an intel-
ligent understanding of the method of apply-
ing them. The attempt has been made to
point out all the sources of error, and to
give accurate data showing the degree of
