POPULAR MISCELLANY.
425
origin of the seeds. Dr. Clevenger, of Chi-
cago, thinks that the soil has been substan-
tially exhausted of the constituents favor-
able to the growth of the original timber,
and has become more suitable for the sup-
port of other or complementary sorts ; but
as against this, evidence of the supposed
exhaustion seldom exists, and the origin
of the seeds is still unaccounted for. Mr.
John T. Campbell, of Rockville, Indiana, a
practical woodsman, supposes that while
most forest-seeds are not ready to grow in
the leaf-fall of the parent tree, other seeds
and nuts are transported for long distances
and in great numbers by crows, woodpeckers,
6quirrels, etc., and that these are the seeds
from which the new growth arises. This
theory must depend largely upon whether
nuts are actually transported in such num-
bers as it requires, by the agencies men-
tioned. Mr. Campbell adduces an incident
that occurred under his own observations,
in which, if not the identical thing, some-
thing very like it was done.
Work and Play in Instruction. School
Superintendent B. A. Hinsdale, of Cleve-
land, Ohio, remarks, upon a precept laid
down by President Eliot in one of his ad-
dresses that a subject is good for a child
precisely in proportion to his liking for it,
or, in other words, to his taste and capacity
for it, that a capital distinction should be
made between work and play. The object
of education is to learn to do work. This
fact should not be lost sight of, even though
the road to the end be made to lead, at
times, a little way through play. The
child has a spontaneous nature that should
be harnessed to studies and to the whole
work of life. Automatic attention is that
state of the mind in which its energy is
given to a thing from some native affinity
or attraction ; volitional attention, that state
in which its energy is given by act of choice.
The development of volitional attention is
one of the highest results of discipline.
Now, in training the child the spontaneous
attention must be rallied to the support of
the volitional, which is weak or does not at
first exist at all, but as time goes on the
volitional attention should grow and become
more and more independent of the sponta-
neous. Humor has been likened to the
lever, by means of which we raise great
weights with a small force. Love and en-
thusiasm are also powerful motives. There
is a large suggestion for the teacher in the
fact that a little boy who has complained
bitterly of the wearisomeness of walking
will, when put astride of his grandfathers
cane, and told that it is a horse, scamper
away all forgetful of his previous com-
plaints. But somewhat of life consists of
walking when one is weary, and no boy is
fitted for life who can not walk. The child
should indeed be led to the hard by the way
of the easy, but the man has no real train-
ing or character who can not, on due occa-
sion, collect his powers to do a multitude of
things that he considers hard and disagree-
able. The spontaneous powers keep us
alive in infancy, and death comes when they
wholly fail us, but the highest end of edu-
cation is the fullest development of the
judgment, the moral sense, and the will.
Hitch the spontaneous forces to your wagon
by all means, but, if you have no other
horses, you should not be surprised to find
that you drive a balky team. ... It is not
true that nothing is good for training that
is not hard, but it is true that no training is
complete that does not involve much severe
and vigorous labor. It is not true that men-
tal exercise is useful only when it is repul-
sive and distasteful, needing a dead-lift of
the will, but it is true that a good many of
such lifts have to be made, and the child
must be got ready for the lifting. ... In a
word, my whole contention is that the child
must be brought, progressively, of course,
to measure his full powers with the labors
and. difficulties of life.
How the Structure of Rocks is deter-
mined. Mr. George F. Becker, in a paper
pertinent to some differences of opinion
between himself and Messrs. Hague and
Iddings, of the United States Geological
Survey, concerning the rocks of the Washoe
district, remarks that, given the chemical
constitution of an eruptive magma, the min-
eralogical results are dependent solely on
the physical conditions to which it is sub-
jected. It is not a question, therefore,
whether, if similar magmas are subjected
at different times to similar temperatures
and pressures, similar mineralogical results
