426
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
will ensue, but whether at different geo-
logical eras the physical conditions attend-
ing the cooling of eruptive masses have
been substantially identical. That this has
sometimes been the case will scarcely be
denied. The problem with which geologists
have to deal, however, is not precisely that
just stated, for, since the earlier formations
have been deeply eroded, while the degrada-
tion of comparatively recent rocks is, as a
rule, correspondingly small, upper portions
of more recent eruptions have to be com-
pared with lower portions of more ancient
eruptions. The lithological problem is,
therefore, greatly complicated. The main
purpose of lithology being, as the author
believes, to trace the physical conditions
through which a mass of readily ascertain-
able chemical composition has passed, in
the present state of ignorance concerning
the effects of temperatures and pressures,
the most rational method is to study and
record every peculiarity of every occur-
rence and every perceptible difference be-
tween rocks. . . . Rocks can, of course,
never be classified with the sharpness of
minerals. Rocks are essentially mixtures,
and therefore pass into one another insensi-
bly. The wonder is, that rocks not only
conform in some degree to a system, but
that certain lithological types exhibit such
an extraordinary persistence, being met
with at the most remote quarters in typiwd
development. While the very nature of
things thus excludes a rigid classification
of rocks, observation clearly indicates the
possibility of reducing them to a natural
system.
rnfonnded Fears. Something is occa-
sionally said about the expediency of avoid-
ing heavy work in very warm weather. The
Lancet evidently thinks there has been
too much talk of the kind, and expresses
views of its own on the matter. It says :
After it has been proved to demonstration
that nothing whatever should be done, in
schools, particularly, during hot weather, we
shall be quite prepared to make common
cause with the school-children in the en-
deavor to demonstrate that it is undesirable
to do anything in cold weather either. In
short, let us give up eating, drinking, work-
ing, playing, sleeping, and living, in the last
issue, lest some harm should befall. It is
rank nonsense to write and speak, as too
many who ought to be better informed are
writing and speaking just now, as though
every act of existence were beset with peril.
It would be better for all of us and the world
at large if less ingenuity were spent on the
invention of scares, and in the pitiful task
of working on the fears of the public.
Caries of the Teeth. Caries of the teeth
has been but little investigated scientifical-
ly, according to Professor Busch, of Berlin,
because in studying it the external hurtful
processes have been alone considered, where-
as the second important factor, the resist-
ing power of the teeth, has been overlooked.
It appears to be peculiar to man, having
been observed in no animal ; but not to be
characteristic of civilized man alone, for it
has been observed in large collections of
skulls, including those of prehistoric time.
Some races are more disposed to it than
others. Certain families are particularly
predisposed to it. General habit of body
has a pronounced influence upon its devel-
opment, as well as certain peculiarities and
crises of physical condition and disease.
Disposition to caries shows itself even in
the developing tooth in the composition of
its enamel, which is undulating, whereas
teeth with quite smooth enamel have much
greater power of resistance. The enamel
appears to be the only tissue in the body
which is subject to no metabolism, and
which remains quite unchanged. Every al-
teration in it which is caused by external
influences, and every defect of the enamel,
remains during the whole of life, and can
never be repaired. Dentine also shows dif-
ferences in structure as regards its dispo-
sition to caries. The dentine tubes cither
run regularly closely side by side, when the
teeth have greater power of resistance ; or
they branch and surround cellular bodies,
or even small air-vesicles, when the teeth
fall an easy prey to caries. If dentine has
been decalcified at any place by the action
of acids, it undergoes putrefaction under
the influence of bacteria which do not seem
to belong to any particular species. Den-
tine is sensitive, though nerve-filaments
have not as yet been traced into it. Actual
toothache does not occur in the course of
