P OP ULAR MIS CELL AX Y.
427
caries until it has reached the pulp. The
inflammation of the pulp is particularly
violent and painful, because the tissue is so
richly provided with blood-vessels and nerve-
filaments. As the products of inflamma-
tion can not escape, they collect and work
their way downward, where they produce
the most painful inflammation of the roots
and the periosteum. The chief object of
the rational treatment of caries of the teeth
consists in the removal of every particle of
carious substance out of the diseased tooth
and the protection of the sound dentine
that has been exposed against external in-
jurious influences by covering it with a fine
substance which is not attacked by acids
gutta-percha, cement, or gold. Although
the dentine is not as unchangeable as en-
amel, but manifests, by becoming firmer or
softer, that it is not quite uninfluenced by
tissue-changes, yet its caries is not an irrita-
tive process that the dentine takes an active
part in, but a passive process, and conse-
quently the removal of all diseased portions
and the protection of the non-carious part
of the tooth suffices to stay the morbid pro
cess completely.
Cooking by Steam. Professor Behrend,
of Hohenheim, has described his experi-
ments on the changes produced in the albu-
minoid matter of various seeds and of pota-
toes by steaming under high pressure. In
a preliminary experiment, the author found
that the albuminoids of lupine-seeds under-
went considerable decomposition by heating
with water under pressure, and that the de-
composition was greater as the duration of
the heating and the temperature increased.
Ee, therefore, set to work to investigate
whether the albumen was dissolved as well
as decomposed, and, if so, what the quan-
titative relations of these changes were in
various seeds, and more especially in the
raw starch material for the manufacture of
alcohol. Yellow lupines, peas, Hungarian
maize, dari (Sorghum tartaricum), and pota-
toes in separate lots, nine months dug and
just dug, were experimented upon. When
the determinations were made, the contents
of the flasks, especially when they were
very starchy, became viscid and tenacious,
like glue, at from 70 to 100 C, and at
130 C. they were almost clear, limpid
liquids, with just a few flecks floating about,
while, as the heating was continued, the
masses became continually darker, the
brownness being more or less intense, ac-
cording as the substance was richer or poor-
er in nitrogen. It is hence inferred that
the brown coloration is the result of the
decomposition of nitrogenous substances.
In all cases an increase of the soluble nitro-
gen was observed, especially with lupines
and peas. The nitrogenous matter of maize
seems less soluble, and not so easily at-
tacked as that of lupines and peas. From
the fact that the chief difference observed,
after six hours of heating, was in the
amounts of the albuminoid dissolved, it
was inferred that the solution of albumi-
noids precedes decomposition, and this was
confirmed by subsequent experiment.
Geographical Conditions and Civiliza-
tion. Mr. H. J. Mackinder shows, in a pa-
per on The Scope and Methods of Geogra-
phy, how the distribution of men, their so-
cial and political relations, and the elements
of their civilization, are determined by fac-
tors of physical geography and of geology
back of it. Each successive chapter post-
ulates what has gone before. The sequence
of argument is unbroken. From the posi-
tion of the obstacles and the course of the
winds may be deduced the distribution of
rain. From the form and distribution of
the wrinkle slopes and from the distribution
of the rainfall follows the distribution of
the drainage system. The distribution of
soils is mainly dependent on the rock-struct-
ure, and on a consideration of soil and cli-
mate follows the division of the world into
natural regions based on vegetation. Cer-
tain conditions of climate and soil are needed
for the aggregation of dense populations.
A certain density of population seems ne-
cessary to the development of civilization.
Again, comparatively undisturbed strata
usually underlie wide plains, and wide plains
seem specially favorable to the development
of homogeneous races, like the Russians and
the Chinese. Yet, again, the distribution of
animal, vegetable, and mineral products has
done much to determine the local character-
istics of civilization. An interesting chap-
ter of geography deals with the reaction of
man on nature. Man alters his environ-
