POPULAR MISCELLANY.
429
pond whence the visitor came. He has
observed fresh-water perch behaving in a
similar manner. A further proof of the
communicative capabilities of fish is afford-
ed by the manner in which they oftentimes
avoid the snares spread for them by men.
They not only possess a keen sense of dan-
ger, but must have the power of warning
one another. Mr. Carter feels confident,
from the result of his observations, that
coarse fish are able to influence one anoth-
er, and if this is the case with them, why
not with others ? It can not be credited,
he says, that Nature has denied to fish
what she has freely bestowed upon all other
animals, and therefore I think the further
we go into the subject the more we shall
realize that the gift of communication has
been implanted in the nature of every creat-
ure to a greater or less degree.
A Link between Invertebrates and Vcr-
tcbrateSt Mr. W. Baldwin Spencer, of the
University Museum, Oxford, in studying the
anatomy and histology of the lizard-like
reptile Hatteria punctata, found on the pi-
neal body and under the parietal foramen,
a rounded mass, provided with a well-marked
nerve, which is evidently an eye. A de-
pression of the skin of the head occurs im-
mediately above the parietal foramen, but
does not lead down to this structure, which
is filled up with a plug of connective tissue
that is specially dense around the capsule
that envelops the eye. The capsule is also
filled up behind with connective tissue, in
which a blood-vessel, entering with the
nerve, divides and ramifies. It becomes
extremely difficult, says the Rev. W. H.
Dallinger, remarking on this discovery, to
conjecture what can be the use of so curi-
ously placed, and at the same time so highly
complex, an organ ; an eye so buried in its
capsule and surrounding tissue, and so cov-
ered with the skin of the head as to make
it almost inconceivable that it can be af-
fected by even the most intense light ; an
eye placed, moreover, in a position that sug-
gests no advantage to the present organ-
ism. It is also placed in the head of ani-
mals well endowed with the normal pair of
vertebrate eyes ; and on examining it in
different lizards it is found in different
stages of uselessness, in some being quite
isolated from the brain, and in others, as in
this Hatteria, having a distinct nerve-con-
nection with the hinder part of the pineal
body. The inference, therefore, appears
inevitable that it is an atrophied organ ; an
organ which the evolutional modifications
of the original animal possessing this single
eye have rendered in the course of ages de-
void of function and needless ; but at the
same time, and by this very means, it is in-
dicative of the ancestry of the organism in
which it lingers. Its structure is that of
the invertebrate eye, being marked by the
peculiar feature in which this eye is differ-
ent from, or opposite in the arrangement of
the parts to, that of the vertebrate eye. Its
presence suggests an ancient connection be-
tween the vertebrates and the tunicates, and
their origin in one common stock ; and sup-
plies a new and most direct evidence in
favor of the doctrine of the evolution of
animal life.
Specimens of Paleolithic Art. The riv-
er Tardoire in La Charente, France, is fa-
mous for the caves along its banks, out of
which numerous evidences of occupation by
prehistoric man have been collected from
time to time. Among the objects which M.
Eugene Paignon has recently found in one
of the caves is a piece of reindeer-horn,
perforated, of the form known as staff of
command, which is covered with accurate
and spirited engravings, and marked by
work of such fineness that it can be seen
best with a lens. On one of the faces of
the staff is a representation of two seals,
one of which is seen entire with its four
limbs, the hinder limbs being faithfully
rendered, and having five digits on each
flap. The size of the tail is exaggerated.
The body is covered with very evident hairs.
The head is delicately executed, and the
snout with its mustaches, the mouth, the
eye, and the ear-orifice indicate genuine
skill. The other seal is not entirely seen.
It is larger and shows the marks of long
hair on the neck. In front of the larger
seal is a fish which may be a salmon or
trout, for it is spotted like those fish, and
its ventral fins are attached to the abdomen.
Three plant-stems are seen near the fish.
The opposite side of the horn is nearly cov-
ered with two long and slender animals, one
