43
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
showing its head and the other one the end
of its tail. They are probably intended to
be seals. On the same side of the horn arc
three figures of identical form, the meaning
of which is not clear, and a figure that may
be a hemipterous insect. 11. Gaudry has
no doubt of the authenticity of this speci-
men, for he is assured by M. Paignon, who
is a lawyer and publicist of repute, and in-
terested in prehistoric studies, that it was
found in his presence by his own workmen
while digging out the bone-earth from the
bottom of the cave.
Educating up. Dr. Andrew Wilson
suggests that we might with advantage dis-
miss some of the less useful topics from
the curriculum of the common schools, and
supplant them by other topics of vital inter-
est to every class of the community. Boys
and girls, for instance, are frequently kept
working at modern languages, drawing,
classics, and other branches, when the teach-
ing of physiology, health, and domestic
economy would be of infinitely greater ad-
vantage to them in afterlife. Some people
would think this to be educating down, but
Dr. Wilson asks : Is it certain that by
limiting the extras or what are undoubt-
edly often useless topics in education in
so far as the social life of many of the pu-
pils is concerned we should be educating
down at all ? In all likelihood we should
rather be practicing the reverse procedure.
By imparting a knowledge of the laws of
health and economy, we should be enabling
the teacher to discharge his duties in a fuller
and truer sense than before. . . . Individu-
al culture of such subjects lies at the root
of all national advance in health and pros-
perity. As several writers have shown, the
remedy for much of the misery and poverty
now existent lies in the better use of the
hours spent at school.
An Endnlatory Theory of Odors. M.
P. Leclerc has propounded a theory that
odor is, like light and sound, a phenomenon
of undulation. He cites in support of his
view that many substances, like sulphur
and copper, do not emit odors until they
are rubbed, and it is more reasonable to
suppose that the rubbings cause undula-
tions than that under that condition the
substances emit matter which can not be
detected except as a smell. Again, arseni-
ous acid when thrown upon a burning coal,
gives out thick gray fumes and an odor of
garlic. In the solid state it has no smell,
and no more in the vaporous state if no
chemical change takes place in volatilizing
it. But, when it is thrown upon the hot
coal, a reduction takes place to arsenic, that
is volatilized and then reoxidized on com-
ing in contact with the air, and we have a
smell accompanying the chemical action the
same as in many other cases we have light
or heat in connection with it. M. Leclerc,
continuing his experiments with a rather
imperfect instrument, claims to have pro-
duced interference of odors analogous with
the interference phenomena of light.
Some British Weeds. British farms and
gardens are troubled by about a hundred
and thirty species of weeds, annuals and
perennials, with about a dozen biennials.
Among the most troublesome and mischiev-
ous of them are the bind-weeds and the
couch-grass, which will start to grow from
so small a piece of root that it is almost
impossible to get rid of them. The couch-
grass is nearly in place in Italy, where the
white, underground stems, which contain a
considerable quantity of starch, are gath-
ered and taken to market, to be sold as
food for cattle and horses. A variety of
this grass, called matt-grass, also finds a
place in Holland, where it is put to use for
binding together the sandy dunes and flat3
by the sea. Some weeds have a marvelous
power of increase. The history of the ox-
eye daisy in this country illustrates this
property. Some seeds of the plant found
their way in packages to the Island of Co-
lonsay, in the west of Scotland; in the
course of a few years the ox-eye had taken
possession of the whole island. The com-
mon yellow toad-flax was introduced as a
garden-flower by a Mr. Ranstead, and i3
known as the Ranstead weed. Chickweed is
said to have been introduced as a bird-seed.
The Scotch thistle arrived in a bed-tick
filled with its down. The down, having
been replaced with feathers, was thrown
away, and soon found a congenial home.
Some American plants, particularly the wa-
ter-weed (Anacharsis ahinasfrum), have nat-
