NOTES.
43i
uralized themselves in Europe, and are be-
coming troublesome. All weeds are capable
of being made useful as manure by plow-
ing them in while they are green and before
they have seeded.
NOTES.
A new feature in the summer courses in
chemistry at the Harvard University Labo-
ratory this year, will be a course comprising
the work required iu preparing for the ad-
mission examination in chemistry for the
freshman class at Harvard College. It is
based on Prof essor Cookes recent pamphlet,
and is offered to students and to teachers in
preparatory schools. The usual courses in
general chemistry, qualitative and quanti-
tative analysis, and organic chemistry, will
be given, and possibly a course in miner-
alogy. The courses will be under the direc-
tion of Arthur M. Comey, Ph. D., and will
open July 11th and close August 20th. A
course in practical botany, designed special-
ly for teachers, will be given at the Harvard
Botanical Garden, from July 6th to August
6th, under the direction of Professor Good-
ale. Further particulars will be furnished
by the assistant in botany, Mr. J. E. Hum-
phrey, No. 6 Divinity Hall, Cambridge,
Massachusetts. All these courses are open
to women. The total number of students
in the chemical courses last summer was
forty -three, and in the botanical course
thirty-three.
M. Chevreul, one hundred years and
eight months old, presented to the French
Academy of Sciences, on the 9th of May, a
memoir by M. Arnaud, recording the con-
stant presence of the red-coloring alkaloid,
carotine, in the leaves of all plants. The
illustrious dean of the students, whom
M. Stanislas Meunier does not recollect to
have ever seen more alert, more enthusi-
astic in the exposition of natural truths, or
more youthful in action, insisted on the
precise character of the paper, and empha-
sized the association of chlorophyl with
this substance of complementary color to
its own. At the end he promised to revert
to the subject and to discuss some other
points in a future memoir.
It seems probable that for any further
increase of speed in steam-vessels we must
rely upon the engineer rather than upon the
naval architect. The lines upon which our
fastest ships are built can hardly be im-
proved upon ; but in the matter of power
there is still an enormous waste. It is esti-
mated that only one half of the total power
exerted by the engines is effective in pro-
pelling the vessel. In addition to this, a
very considerable portion of the heat-energy
of the fuel escapes through the funnel in-
stead of producing steam. Attention is now
given to economizing in these matters as
well as in the space allotted to engines,
boilers, and fuel. The separation of freight
from passenger traffic, after the system pur-
sued on railroads, is destined to be an im-
portant factor in facilitating the construc-
tion of passenger-vessels of increased speed.
According to Dr. Charles H. Burnett,
of Philadelphia, the use of properly con-
structed ear-trumpets improves the hearing
permanently as well as aids it for the time.
The cause of deafness being usually anchy-
losis produced by a catarrhal thickening of
the mucous membrane of the auditory parts,
passive motion overcomes the immobility
that has been induced in them. The form
of passive motion which acts most naturally
here is that of sound. This form of passive
motion, augmented as it is by means of the
ear-trnmpet, acting frequently and system-
atically upon the ear, prevents further an-
chylosis, and the fatty degeneration of the
auditory nerve that comes from desuetude.
This, of course, tends to a permanent im-
provement of the hearing, and in some cases
patients come to hear without the trumpet.
Preparations for the New York meet-
ing of the American Association, to begin
August 10th, are being carried vigorously
forward. The President of the Local Com-
mittee of Arrangements is Dr. F. A. P. Bar-
nard, the local treasurer is General Thomas
L. James, and the local secretary is Profess-
or H. L. Fairchild, Columbia College, New
York. The Vice-Presidents are Chauncey
M. Depew, Mayor Abram S. Hewitt, George
William Curtis, Vice-Chancellor Henry M.
MacCracken, Professor J. S. Newberry, Mor-
ris K. Jesup, and Judge Charles P. Daly.
The whole committee numbers nearly five
hundred. There is a large Ladies Commit-
tee, of which Mrs. A. S. Hewitt is chairman,
Mrs. Nicholas Fish, first member; Miss
Winifred Edgerton, secretary ; and Mrs.
Sylvanus Reed, treasurer. The sessions of
the Association will be held at Columbia
College, where the rooms are ample for the
several sections. A Dumber of receptions
and excursions have been spoken of already,
but nothing definite can be said about these
until the sub-committees report. The out-
look is very promising, and the hope is in-
dulged that the New York meeting will be
the most successful in the history of the
Association.
M. de Quatrefages and M. H. Chevalier
have given their adhesion to the theory,
which is taught, as to the Aryan race, in its
earliest records, that the migrations of peo-
ples in remote antiquity were provoked by
the gradual increase of cold in the northern
regions.
