43 2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
An International Conference on Celestial
Photography held its meetings in Paris from
April 16th to the 25th. A large number of
countries were represented by eminent as-
tronomers. Of the nearly sixty persons of
whom the congress was composed, three
were accredited to America. The confer-
ence was opened by M. Flourens, who said
that a new era was opening for physical
astronomy as well as for mathematical as-
tronomy, and that the photographers were
writing the first authentic page of the trans-
formations and modifications of cosmic mat-
ter, or of the history of the universe. Ad-
miral Mouchez was elected honorary presi-
dent, and Mr. Struve, of Pulkowa, effective
president of the body. The secretaries were
M. Tisserand, of the College de France, and
Mynheer Vande Sande Bakhuyzen, of Ley-
den.
The latest census of horses gives the
whole number in Europe and the two Amer-
icas as 54,850,000. Of these the United
States has 9,500,000, and Canada 2,624,000.
The one hundredth anniversary of the
death of Pere Boscovitch, a celebrated
physicist of the last century, was celebrated
at Ragusa, his native city, on the 13th of
February. He was the author of seventy-
six volumes, one for each year of his life.
He is said to have been the originator of the
doctrine of the centers of forces ; he wrote
a Latin poem on eclipses ; he superintended
the repairs of St. Peters Church under Pope
Benedict XIV, by which that cathedral was
saved from ruin. He was appointed naval
optician by King Louis XVI of France, and
was intrusted by Napoleon with the meas-
urement of the degree in Lombardy.
Dr. J. Uffelmann asserts, in the Ar-
chiv. fur Hygiene, that the proportion of
nutritive material in the edible mushrooms
has been overestimated, and that those
plants are comparatively difficult of diges-
tion.
An international cremation conference
is to be held in Milan in September of this
year. Among the questions to which its
attention will be brought will be those of
legislation concerning the transportation of
bodies from one country to another; cre-
mation and the preservation of ashes, with
especial reference to hygiene and legal med-
icine ; the technical, moral, hygienic, and
economical aspects of different systems of
cremation ; and projects for international
legislation with reference to liberty at fu-
nerals.
Dr. P.. V. Siitfeldt has recorded an in-
teresting study of a case of the repair of the
bill of a raven after it had been shot off.
The ball had carried away the upper bill
just forward of the nostrils. The bone had
grown again so as to cover the injury, and
the horny covering, following suit, had in-
cased the stump formed by the bone. The
result of Natures surgery in the case was,
that the injured part was left in such a con-
dition that the danger of subsequent inflam-
mation was avoided, while the form of the
resulting stump was as useful a one as could
possibly be expected to follow after a wound
of such a character.
OBITUARY NOTES.
M. Bernard Stcder, formerly professor
in the University of Berne, Switzerland,
died in that city May 2d, aged ninety-three
years. He was called the dean of the
geologists of Europe.
M. Gosselin, President of the French
Academy of Sciences, died April 80th. He
was born on the eve of the battle of Water-
loo, and was consequently in his seventy-
second year. He was distinguished as a
surgeon.
Dr. E. Felix A. Vulpiax, a famous
French physician and Dean of the Faculty
of the Academy of Medicine, died May 1 8th,
in the sixty-first year of his age. He be-
came Professor of Pathological Anatomy
in 1867, and was the author of important
works on the nervous system and its dis-
eases.
Mr. William Cameron, explorer and
geologist to the Government of the Straits
Settlements (Malacca), died in the latter
part of last year, aged fifty-three years.
He had been engaged lately in mapping
and exploring the unknown parts of the
native states. He was well known through-
out those states, especially among the Ma-
lays and Sakies, of whose language and cus-
toms he had an accurate knowledge, and
over whom he had great influence.
On the 13th of April occurred the death
of Herr J. B. Obernetter, who was well
known for his researches in photographic
chemistry, at the age of forty-seven years ;
and on the 14th was announced the death
of Dr. Nathaniel Lieberkuhn, Professor of
Anatomy at the University of Marburg, in
the sixty-sixth year of his age.
M. J. B. J. D. Boussingault, chemist
and investigator in scientific agriculture,
died in Paris, May 12th, aged eighty-five
years. He spent several years of the ear-
lier part of his adult life in scientific investi-
gations in South America. Having returned
to France, he was appointed Professor of
Chemistry at Lyons, and afterward to the
chair of Agriculture at the Conservatoire
des Arts et M6tiers. He was the author of
a book and of numerous papers on agricult-
ural chemistry and physiology.
