CREATION OB EVOLUTION? 35
rather Mr. Curtis would discuss the point than we ; for we really can
not profess to understand either the economy that could have accom-
panied the reduction of structures, well developed in other types to
the rudimentary condition in which they are found in man, or the
wisdom of producing, by a fresh exertion of power, that which was
functionally useless.
Our author combats in turn nearly every position taken by Mr.
Spencer in his exposition of biological evolution. To Mr. Spencers
statement that not only did no one ever see a special creation take
place, but no one ever found indirect proof of any kind that a
special creation had taken place, he affirms that indirect evidence has
been accumulated to an enormous extent to show that the earth is full
of special creations. If no one, he proceeds to say, ever saw a special
creation take place, neither has any one ever seen an instance in which
an animal of one species has been evolved out of another of a different
species. Considering that the evolution of a species is conceived and
uniformly represented as a process requiring multiplied generations
for its accomplishment, whereas special creation, if it ever occurred
before witnesses, would, we must suppose, be as observable a thing as
the shooting of a meteor across the sky, the cases are not quite parallel.
Of course, it is open to the creationist to say that no act of creation
has taken place since man was called into being ; but if so, it must be
admitted that the evolutionist, who does not require to say that the pro-
cesses in which he believes came to a stop very long ago, but who
affirms, on the contrary, that the laws of evolution are just as active
now as they ever were, has slightly the advantage. Moreover, the
evolutionist, if he can not crowd centuries into an hour, and show the
transformation of species and genera accomplishing itself before our
eyes, can point to changes now in progress which, if continued through
the ages, could not fail to produce the widest divergences in animal
and vegetable forms. The creationist has absolutely nothing to show
us that hints at or points to creation as the term is commonly under-
stood the flashing of something out of nothing. Mr. Curtis would
fain persuade us that Shakespeares production of Hamlet is an act
of creation analogous, comparing small things with great, to the crea-
tion of the world. The idea is a little preposterous. Did Hamlet
come out of nothing in any sense whatever ? Was it not a special
combination of ideas, experiences, imaginations, conceptions, that were
part of the personality of the dramatist ? And these experiences, im-
aginations, etc., were they not the result of the authors contact with
the outer world ? Are not all the words used to express even our
most abstract mental operations, borrowed from the phenomena of
daily life ? The fact that Hamlet was not a creation in the theologi-
cal sense is proved by the simple consideration that it was the work
of the individual William Skakespeare, and came forth from his brain
as it could not have come forth from any other brain. Why should a
