436 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and the markets of the Western world, permitting the dealers and con-
sumers of the latter to adjust to a nicety their supplies of commodities
to varying demands, and with the reduction of the time of the voyage
to thirty days or less, there was no longer any necessity of laying up
great stores of Eastern commodities in Europe ; and with the termi-
nation of this necessity, the India warehouse and distribution system
of England, with all the labor and all the capital and banking incident
to it, substantially passed away. Europe, and to some extent the
United States, ceased to go to England for such supplies. If Austria
wanted anything of Indian product, it stopped en route, by the Suez
Canal, at Trieste ; if Italy, at Venice or Genoa ; if France, at Mar-
seilles ; if Spain, at Cadiz. As a rule, also, stocks of Indian produce
are now kept, not only in the countries, but at the very localities of
their production, and are there drawn upon as they are wanted for
immediate consumption, with a greatly reduced employment of the
former numerous and expensive intermediate agencies.* Thus, a Cal-
cutta merchant or commission agent at any of the worlds great centers
of commerce contracts through a clerk and the telegraph with a manu-
facturer in any country it may be half round the globe removed
to sell him jute, cotton, hides, spices, cutch, linseed, or other like India
produccf An inevitable steamer is sure to be in an Eastern port, ready
to sail upon short notice ; the merchandise wanted is bought by tele-
* In illustration of this curious point, attention is asked to the following extract from
a review of the trade of British India, for the year 1886, from the Times, of India,
published at Bombay: What the mercantile community i. e., of Bombay has suf-
fered and is suffering from, is the very narrow margin which now exists between the
producer and consumer. Twenty years ago the large importing houses held stocks, but
nowadays nearly everything is sold to arrive, or bought in execution of native orders, and
the bazaar dealers, instead of European importers, have become the holders of stocks.
The cable and canal have to answer for the transformation ; while the ease with which
funds can be secured at home by individuals absolutely destitute of all knowledge of the
trade, and minu3 the capital to work it, has resulted in the diminution of profits both to
importers and to bazaar dealer^.
f- Familiar as are the public generally with the operations of the telegraph and the
changes in trade and commerce consequent upon its submarine extension, the following
incident of personal experience may present certain features with which they are not ac-
quainted : In the winter of 1884 the writer journeyed from New York to Washington with
an eminent Boston merchant engaged in the Calcutta trade. Calling upon the merchant
the same evening, after arrival in Washington, he said : Here is something, Mr. ,
that may interest you. Just before leaving State Street, in Boston, yesterday forenoon,
I telegraphed to my agent in Calcutta, If you can buy hides and gunny-bags at price,
and find a vessel ready to charter, buy and ship. When I arrived here (Washington),
this afternoon (4 p. m.), I found awaiting me this telegram from my partner in Boston,
covering another from Calcutta, received in answer to my dispatch of the previous day,
which read as follows : Hides and gunny-bags purchased, vessel chartered, and loading
btgun?
Here, then, as an every-day occurrence, was the record of a transaction on the other
side of the globe, the correspondence in relation to which traveled a distance equivalent
to the entire circumference of the globe, all completed in a space of little more than
twenty-four hours !
