44 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
charge for sea-freights on articles of comparatively high value has
been reduced, is shown by the fact that the ocean transport of fresh
meats from New York to Liverpool does not exceed 1 cent (\d.) per
pound ; and including commissions, insurance, and all other items of
charge, does not exceed 2 cents (Id.) per pound. Boxed meats have
also been carried from Chicago to London as a regular business for 50
cents per 100 pounds. In 1860 Gd. (12 cents) per bushel was about
the lowest rate charged for any length of time for the transportation
of bulk grain from New York to Liverpool, and for a part of that
year the rate ran up as high as lS^d. (27 cents) per bushel. But for
the year 1886 the average rate for the same service was 2\d. (5 cents)
per bushel. In like manner, the cost of the ocean transportation of
tea from China and Japan, or sugar from Cuba, or coffee from Brazil,
has been greatly reduced by the same causes.
The above are examples on a large scale of the disturbing influence
of the recent application of steam to maritime industries. The fol-
lowing is an example drawn from comparatively one of the smallest
of the worlds industries, prosecuted in one of the most out-of-the-way
places : The seal-fishery is a most important industrial occupation
and source of subsistence to the poor and scant population of New-
foundland. Originally it was prosecuted in small sailing-vessels, and
upward of a hundred of such craft, employing a large number of men,
annually left the port of St. Johns for the seal-hunt. Now few or no
sailing-vessels engage in the business ; steamers have been substituted,
and the same number of seals are taken with half the number of men
that w r ere formerly needed. The consequence is, a diminished oppor-
tunity for a population of few resources, and to obtain a berth for
the ice, as it is termed, is now considered as a favor.
Is it, therefore, to be wondered at, that the sailing-vessel is fast dis-
appearing from the ocean ; that good authorities estimated in 1886
that the tonnage then afloat was about twenty-five per cent in excess
of all that was needed to do the then carrying-trade of the world ; and
that ship-owners everywhere have been unanimously of the opinion
that the depression of industry is universal ?
Great, however, as has been the revolution in respect to economy
and efficiency in the carrying-trade upon the ocean, the revolution
in the carrying-trade upon land during the same period has been even
greater and more remarkable. Taking the American railroads in
general as representative of the railroad system of the world, the
average charge for moving one ton of freight per mile has been re-
duced from about 2*5 cents in 1869 to 105 in 1885 ; or, taking the
results on one of the standard roads of the United States (the New York
Central) from 1-95 in 1869 to 068 in 1885. To grasp fully the mean-
ing and significance of these figures, their method of presentation may
be varied by saying that two thousand pounds of coal, iron, wheat,
cotton, or other commodities, can now be carried on the best managed
