36 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
creation from nothing have any special character ? Other things be-
speak their origin in their lineaments ; and, until better advised, we
shall continue to think that a creation out of Nothing would look un-
commonly like Nothing. If a man born blind were, by an act of
imagination or what not, to show himself quite at home in the com-
prehension of the phenomena of light, we should perhaps be disposed
to recognize an analogy to the alleged work of creation ; but we are
not aware that any such achievement has been recorded. That a great
thinker or poet should not always, if ever, understand how thoughts
came to group themselves in his mind in any particular way is no
difficulty to the evolutionist : he does not pretend to understand all
the mysteries of the human organization.
One argument used by Mr. Spencer affected our author, as he tells
us, very strangely. As he read he could hardly trust the evidence of
his eye-sight ; he thought the type must have got topsy-turvy in some
strange fashion ; he began to distrust the accuracy of the American
edition of the philosophers works, such an extraordinary example
did he seem to have before him of logic run riot. No doubt it
was an argument that would not have told very powerfully on a jury ;
and that might not have brought much light even to the mind of
an average judge, as it certainly has been quite lost on that of a
distinguished lawyer ; but the argument in our humble opinion is a
good one, for all that. What Mr. Spencer says, to put it briefly, is
that the idea of creation is unthinkable because it implies a relation
between something and nothing. What has Mr. Curtis, after recov-
ering from his spasm of astonishment, to say in reply? The first
thing he says is that the creation of matter is not inconceivable, if
we adopt the postulate of an infinite Creator. In other words, use
certain expressions that formally signify creation out of nothing, and
forthwith we have the conception, clear and workable. In the same
way, if we want to have the conception of a round square, we only
have to say round square, and presto, theie it is ! Mr. Curtis wants
very badly to know who made the laws that have been impressed
upon matter ? But who knows that any laws have been impressed
upon matter? Who knows that that is the proper way of express-
ing the relation between matter and its laws ? Does Mr. Curtis know
it ? We doubt it ; or rather we may say that we know that he does
not knoic anything of the kind. By the so-called laws of matter
are meant simply the properties of matter. Perhaps Mr. Curtis thinks
he can conceive of matter apart from its properties, and of the prop-
erties apart from matter. Be that as it may, the question of the origin
of the properties of matter is plainly a part of the question as to the
origin of matter. All that Mr. Spencer says is that there is no use in
talking of matter, or anything else, coming out of nothing, seeing that
the words, w T hen you press them, will be found void of meaning.
When Mr. Curtis says that the term creation, as used in all modern
