446 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The following are other notable results, gathered from other
sources, in what may be termed the minor industries :
In the manufacture of jewelry, one skilled workman, paid at the
rate of two and a half to three dollars per day, and working accord-
ing to anti-machine methods in use a few years ago, could make up
three dozen pairs of sleeve-buttons per day. Now, one boy, paid five
dollars per week, and working on the most modern machinery, can
make up nine thousand pairs in a day. In gold (or imitation gold)
chain-making, the United States now exports the cheapest grade of
such jewelry produced by machinery to Germany, where cottage
hand-labor, in the same avocation, can be had for a pittance, and finds
a ready sale for them as against German manufacturers.
Nothing has had a greater influence in making possible the
rapidity with which certain branches of retail business are now con-
ducted, as compared with ten years ago more especially the sale of
groceries than the cheap and rapid production of paper bags. At the
outset, these bags were all made by hand-labor ; but now machinery
has crowded out the hand-workers, and factories are in existence in
the United States which produce millions of paper bags per week, and
not unfrequently fill single orders for three millions. With machinery
have also come many improvements : square bags that stand up of
themselves, and need only when filled from a measure to have the top
edges turned over to make the package at once ready for delivery. A
purchaser can now also take his butter or lard in paper trays that are
brine and grease proof ; his vinegar in paper jars that are warranted not
to soak for one hour ; a bottle of wine wrapped in a corrugated case
that would not break if he dropped it on the pavement, and his oysters
in paper pails that will hold water overnight. A few years ago, to
have furnished gratuitously these packages, would have been deemed
extravagance ; but now it is found to pay as a matter of business.
The sobriquet of an apothecary was formerly that of a pill-maker ;
but the modern apothecary no longer makes pills, except upon special
prescriptions ; inasmuch as scores of large manufactories now produce
pills by machinery according to the standard or other formulas, and
every apothecary keeps and sells them, because they are cheaper,
better, and more attractive than any that he can make himself.
Certain branches of occupation formerly of considerable impor-
tance seem to be passing out of existence under the influence of re-
cent improvements. Previous to 1872, nearly all the calicoes of the
world were dyed or printed with a coloring principle extracted from
the root known as marker; the cultivation and preparation of
which involved the use of thousands of acres of land in Holland, Bel-
gium, Eastern France, Italy, and the Levant, and the employment of
many hundreds of men, women, and children, and of large amounts
of capital ; the importation of madder into England for the year 1872
having been 28,731,600 pounds, and into the United States for the
