CREATION OR EVOLUTION? 37
philosophy, implies ex vi termini, the act of causing to exist, the an-
swer to give is that the term creation is not used in all modern
philosophy, and that the idea of creation has a very small place in-
deed in modern philosophy. Professor Eucken, of Jena, in a useful
little hand-book, which has been translated by a professor at Andover
and furnished with an introduction by the ex-President of Yale, has
catalogued and commented on The Concepts of Modern Philosophy.
Mr. Curtis will search the list in vain for any mention of the concept
of creation ; and it is a perfectly safe statement to make that the
idea in question is not an element of any importance in contemporary-
philosophical thought.
Mr. Curtis says many odd things without being in the least aware
of it. He describes lexicographers as learned persons, part of whose
business it is to exhibit the thought that is represented by a word, . . .
according to the exact correspondence between the word and the idea
which it conveys in its primary and philosophical usage. A very
little reflection, aided by a small amount of inquiry, would have suf-
ficed to satisfy him that the primary sense of a word and its philo-
sophical sense are seldom, if ever, the same. He tells us that, ac-
cording to his famous postulate, the whole void which consists in
mere nothingness is under the absolute sway of the Creator.
Could more nonsensical language possibly be put together? Imagine
the Creator swaying nothingness ! How much power does it take
to do it ? What effect has it upon nothingness to be swayed ?
Has it all been swayed yet, or is some of it still unswayed ? These
questions are all quite pertinent and quite absurd ; and, when a ques-
tion is at once pertinent and absurd, it is evident that something is
wrong with the matter to which the question relates. Mr. Curtis
would not believe Mr. Spencer when the latter told him that the idea
of creation was unthinkable ; he thought he knew better, and now we
find his supposed superior knowledge leading him to represent the Al-
mighty as swaying nothing. Mr. Spencer knew it would come to
that ; and, should he find time to look at Mr. Curtiss book, he will
have no such shocks of surprise as Mr. Curtis had in reading his. Our
author further tells us that the theologian is not the only person who
has occasion to examine the doctrine of evolution ; it must be exam-
ined by the statesman as well. By all means ! Let theologians,
statesmen, and lawyers all examine it, and whosoever will let him ex-
amine it ; only let this caution be whispered into each ones ear, that
it requires a little preparation to examine it to any good purpose. Our
author is not the only prominent lawyer who has failed to make much
of it. He will find a sympathizer in Mr. Chauncey M. Depew, who told
the Nineteenth Century Club, not so long ago, that, down in Wall
Street, the whole phraseology of evolution would be quite unintelli-
gible. We dont doubt it ; a comprehensive system of philosophy,
founded on a very wide range of induction, is apt to be incom-
