452 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE.
By ANDEEW DICKSON WHITE,
LATE PRESIDENT OF CORNELL UNIVERSITY.
in. meteorology {concluded).
WHILE the Fathers and school-men were laboring to deduce a
science of meteorology from our sacred books, there oozed up
in European society a mass of traditions and observances which had
been lurking since the days of paganism ; and, although here and there
appeared a churchman to oppose them, the theologians and ecclesias-
tics ere long began to adopt them and to clothe them with the author-
ity of religion.
Both among the pagans of the Roman Empire and among the
barbarians of the North the Christian missionaries had found it easier
to prove the new God supreme than to prove the old gods powerless.
Faith in the miracles of the new religion seemed to increase rather
than to diminish faith in the miracles of the old ; and the Church at
last began admitting the latter as facts, but ascribing them to the devil.
Jupiter and Odin sank into the category of ministers of Satan, and
transferred to that master all their former powers. A renewed study
of Scripture by the theologians, in the light of this hypothesis, elicited
overwhelming proofs of its truth. They found very many sacred
texts to support it, and it soon became a dogma. So strong was
the hold it took, under the influence of the Church, that not until
late in the seventeenth century did its substantial truth begin to be
questioned.
Now, with no field of action had the sway of the ancient deities
been more identified than with that of atmospheric phenomena. The
Roman heard Jupiter, and the Teuton heard Thor, in the thunder.
Could it be doubted that these powerful beings would now take occa-
sion, unless hindered by the command of the Almighty, to vent their
spite against those who had deserted their altars ? Might not the
Almighty himself be willing to employ the malice of these powers of
the air against those who had offended him ?
It was, indeed, no great step, for those whose simple faith accepted
rain or sunshine as an answer to their prayers, to suspect that the un-
timely storms or droughts, which baffled their most earnest petitions,
were the work of the arch-enemy, the prince of the power of
the air.
The great Fathers of the Church had laid the basis of this doctrine
in Scripture. Saint Jerome declared the air to be full of devils, basing
this belief upon various statements in the prophecies of Isaiah and in
