NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 455
by the evil angels.* Citing from the Apocalypse, he points to the four
angels standing at the fourcorners of the earth, holding back the winds
and preventing their doing great damage to mortals ; f and he dwells
especially upon the fact that the devil is called by the apostle a prince
of the power of the air. J He then goes on to cite the great Fathers
of the Church, Clement, Jerome, Augustine, and Thomas Aquinas.*
This doctrine was spread, not only in ponderous treatises, but in
light literature, and by popular illustrations. In the Compendium
Maleficarum of the Italian monk Guacci, perhaps the most amusing
book in the whole literature of witchcraft, we may see the witch, in
propria persona, riding the diabolic goat through the clouds while the
storm rages around and beneath her ; and we may read a rich collec-
tion of anecdotes, largely contemporary, which establish the required
doctrine beyond question. j|
The first and most natural means taken against this work of Satan
in the air, was Prayer ; and various petitions are to be found scattered
through the Christian liturgies some very beautiful and touching.
This means of escape has been relied upon, with greater or less faith,
from those days to these. Various mediaeval saints and reformers, and
devoted men in all centuries, from Saint Giles to John Wesley, have
used it with results claimed to be miraculous. A Whatever theory any-
thinking man may hold in the matter, he will certainly not venture a
reproachful word : such prayers have been in all ages a natural out-
come of the mind of man in trouble.
But against the powers of the air were used other means of a
very different character and tendency, and foremost among these was
Exorcism. In an exorcism widely used and ascribed to Pope Gregory
XIII, the formula is given : I, a priest of Christ, ... do command
ye, most foul spirits, who do stir up these clouds, . . . that ye depart
from them, and disperse yourselves into wild and untilled places, that
ye may be no longer able to harm men or animals or fruits or herbs
or whatsoever is designed for human use. But this is mild, indeed,
compared to some later exorcisms, as when the ritual runs : All the
people shall rise, and the priest, turning toward the clouds, shall pro-
nounce these words : I exorcise ye, accursed demons, who have dared
to use, for the accomplishment of your iniquity, those powers of Nature
* This interpretation of Psalm Ixxviii, 47-49, was apparently shared by the transla-
tors of our own authorized version.
f Revelation, vii, 1.
\ Ephesians, ii, 2. Even according to modern commentators (e. g. Alford) the word
here translated power denotes, not might, but government, court, hcirarchy ; and in
this sense it was always used by the ecclesiastical writers, whose conception is best ren-
dered by our plural powers.
w See Delrio, Disquisitiones Magica?, lib. ii, c. 11.
|| See Guacci, Compendium Maleficarum (Milan, 1606).
A For the cases of Saint Giles, John Wesley, and others stilling the tempests, see
Brewer, Dictionary of Miracles, s. v. Prayer.
