NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 457
of similar efficacy were the so-called conception billets sold by the
Carmelite monks. They contained a formula upon consecrated paper,
at which the devil might well turn pale. Buried in the corner of a
field, one of these was thought to give protection against bad weather
and destructive insects.*
But highest in repute during centuries was the Agnus Dei a piece
of wax blessed by the popes own hand, and stamped with the well-
known device representing the Lamb of God.f Its powers were so
marvelous that Pope Urban V thought three of them a fitting gift
from himself to the Greek emperor. In the Latin doggerel recount-
ing their virtues, their meteorological efficacy stands first, for especial
stress is laid on their power of dispelling the thunder. This stress
thus laid by Pope Urban, as the infallible guide of Christendom, on
the efficacy of this fetich, gave it great value throughout Europe, and
the doggerel verses reciting its virtues sank deep into the popular
mind. J It was considered a most potent means of dispelling hail,
pestilence, storms, conflagrations, and enchantments ; and this feeling
was deepened by the rules and rites for its consecration.* So solemn
was the matter, that the manufacture and sale of this particular fetich
was, by a papal bull of 1471, reserved for the pope himself, || and he
only performed the required ceremony in the first and seventh years
of his pontificate. Standing un mitred, he prayed : O God, . . . we
humbly beseech thee that thou wilt bless these waxen forms, figured
with the image of an innocent lamb, . . . that, at the touch and sight
of them, the faithful may break forth into praises, and that the crash
of hailstorms, the blast of hurricanes, the violence of tempests, the
fury of winds, and the malice of thunderbolts may be tempered, and
evil spirits flee and tremble before the standard of thy holy cross,
which is graven upon them. A
* See Rydberg, The Magic of the Middle Ages, translated by Edgren, pp. 64-66.
f They are still in use in the Church, and may be found described in any ecclesiastical
cyclopaedia.
\ Tonitrua magna terret, Inimicos nostros domat,
Et peccata nostra delet ; Pra?gnantem cum partu salvat,
Ab incendio preeservat, Dona dignis multa confert,
A submersione servat, Utque malis mala defert.
A morte cita liberat, Portio, quamvis parva sit,
Et Cacodsernones fugat, Ut magna tamen proficit.
See these verses cited in full faith, so late as 1743, in Father Vincent of Bergs En-
chiridium, pp. 23, 24, where is a full account of the virtues of the Agnus Dei, and in-
structions for its use.
# A full account of these rites, with the consecrating prayers and benedictions which
gave color to this theory of the powers of the Agnus Dei, may be found in the ritual of
the Church. I have used the edition entitled Sacrarum ceremoniarum sive rituum
Sanctte Romans Ecclesias libri tres, Rome, 1560, in folio.
1 See Rydberg, Magic of the Middle Ages, p. 63.
A Deus, . . . te suppliciter deprecamur, ut . . . has cereas formas, innocentissimi
agni imagine figuratas, benedicerc . . . digneris, ut per ejus tactum et visum fideles in-
