460 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
prayeth God to sende it good lucke. In many places they make a
great dyner, and kepe a feast as it were at a solemne wedding. *
These bell baptisms became matters of great importance. Popes,
kings, and prelates were proud to stand as sponsors. During the
French Revolution, four of the bells at the Cathedral of Versailles
were destroyed ; and on the 6th of January, 1824, four new ones
were baptized, the Voltairian, King Louis XVIII, and the pious
Duchess dAngouleme standing as sponsors.
In some of these ceremonies, zeal appears to have outrun knowl-
edge, and one of Luthers stories, at the expense of the older Church,
was that certain authorities thus christened a bell Hosanna, suppos-
ing that to be the name of a woman.
To add to the efficacy of such baptisms, water was sometimes
brought from the river Jordan. f
The prayers used at bell baptisms fully recognize this doctrine ;
the ritual of Paris embraces the petition that whensoever this bell
shall sound, it shall drive away the malign influences of the assailing
spirits, the horror of their apparitions, the rush of whirlwinds, the
stroke of lightning, the harm of thunder, the disasters of storms, and
all the spirits of the tempest. J Another prayer begs that the
sound of this bell may put to flight the fiery darts of the enemy of
men ; # and others vary the form but not the substance of this pe-
tition. The great Jesuit theologian, Bellarmin, did indeed try to deny
the reality of this baptism ; but this can only be regarded as a piece
of casuistry suited to Protestant hardness of heart, or as strategy in
the warfare against heretics.
Forms of baptism were laid down in various manuals sanctioned
directly by papal authority, and sacramental efficacy was everywhere
taken for granted. || The development of this idea in the older Church
was too strong to be resisted ; A but, as a rule, the Protestant theolo-
* Sleidans Commentaries, English translation, as above, fol. 334 (lib. xxi, sub
anno 1549).
f See Montanus, as above, who cites Beck, Lutherthum vor Luthero, p. 294, for the
statement that many bells were carried to the Jordan by pilgrims for this purpose.
X See Arago, CEuvres (Paris, 1854), vol. iv, p. 322.
* Arago, as above.
|| As has often been pointed out, the ceremony was in all its details even to the
sponsors, the wrapping a garment about the baptized, the baptismal fee, the feast pre-
cisely the same as when a child was baptized. Magius, who is no skeptic, relates, from
his own experience, an instance of this sort, where a certain bishop stood sponsor for two
bells, giving them both his own name William (see his De Tintinnabulis, xiv).
A And no wonder, when the oracle of the Church, Thomas Aquinas, expressly pro-
nounced church-bells, provided they have been duly consecrated and baptized, the
foremost means of frustrating the atmospheric mischiefs of the devil, and likened
steeples in which bells are ringing to a hen brooding her chickens, for the tones of the
consecrated metal repel the demons and avert storm and lightning ; when pre-Reforma-
tion preachers of such universal currency as Joannes Herolt could declare, Bells, as
all agree, are baptized with the result that they are secure from the power of Satan,
