NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 461
gians of the Reformation, while admitting that storms were caused
by Satan and his legions, opposed the baptism of bells, and denied
the theory of their influence in dispersing storms.* Luther, while
never doubting that troublesome meteorological phenomena were
caused by devils, regarded with contempt the idea that the demons
were so childish as to be scared by the clang of bells ; his theory
of diabolic power made them altogether too powerful to be affected
by means so trivial. The great English reformers, while also ac-
cepting very generally the theory of diabolic interference in storms,
reproved strongly the baptizing of bells, as the perversion of a sacra-
ment, and involving blasphemy. Bishop Hooper declared reliance
upon bells to drive away tempests, futile ; f Bishop Pilkington, while
arguing that tempests are direct instruments of Gods wrath, is very
severe against using unlawful means, and among these he names
the hallowed bell ; J and these opinions were very generally shared
by the leading English clergy. #
Toward the end of the sixteenth century the Elector of Saxony
strictly forbade the ringing of bells against storms, urging penance
and prayer instead ; || but the custom was not so easily driven out of
the Protestant Church, and in some quarters was developed a Protest-
ant theory of a rationalistic sort ascribing the good effects of bell-
ringing in storms to the calling together of the devout for prayer or to
the suggestion of prayers during storms at night. A As late as the
end of the seventeenth century we find the bells of Protestant churches
in Northern Germany rung for the dispelling of tempests. Q In Cath-
olic Austria this bell-ringing seems to have become a nuisance in the
last century, for the Emperor Joseph II found it necessary to issue an
edict against it ; but this doctrine had gained too large headway to
be arrested by argument or edict, and the bells may be heard ring-
ing during storms to this day in various remote districts in Europe.
For this was no mere superficial view. It was really part of a deep
terrify the demons, compel the powers ; and when a canonist like Durandus explained
the purpose of the rite to be, that the demons hearing the trumpets of the Eternal
King, to wit, the bells, may flee in terror, and may cease from the stirring up of tem-
pests. (See Ilerolt, Sermones Discipuli, xvii, and Durandus, De ritibus ecclesise,
ii, 12.) (I owe the first of these citations to Eydberg, and the others to Montanus.)
* The baptism of bells was, indeed, one of the express complaints of the German
Protestant princes at the Reformation. See their Gravam. Cent. German. Grav., 51.
f See his Early Writings, 197 (in Parker Society Publications ).
% See his Works, 177 (in Parker Society Publications).
* E. g., by Tyndale, Bishop Ridley, Archbishop Sandys, Bccon, Calfhill, Rogers. It
is to be noted that all these speak of the rite as baptism.
| See Peuchen, Disp. circa tempestates, Jena, 1697.
A See, e. g., the Conciones Selectaj of Superintendent Conrad Dieterich (cited by
Peuchen, Disp. circa tempestates ).
Q See Schwimmer, Physicalische Luftfragen, 1692 (cited by Peuchen, as above).
He pictures the whole population of a Thuringian district flocking to the churches on the
approach of a storm.
