462 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
theological current steadily developed through the middle ages, the
fundamental idea of the whole being the evident influence of the bells
upon the power of the air ; and it is perhaps worth our while to
go back a little and glance over the growth of this deeper current in
modern times. Having grown steadily through the middle ages, it
appeared in full strength at the Reformation period ; and in the six-
teenth century Olaus Magnus, Archbishop of Upsala and Primate of
Sweden, in his great work on the northern nations, declares it a well-
established fact that cities and harvests may be saved from lightning
by the ringing of bells and the burning of consecrated incense, accom-
panied by prayers ; and he cautions his readers that the workings of
the thunderbolt are rather to be marveled at than inquired into.* Even
as late as 1673 the Franciscan professor Lealus, in Italy, in a school-
book which was received with great applause in his region, taught
unhesitatingly the agency of demons in storms, and the power of
bells over them, as well as the portentousness of comets and the
movement of the heavens by angels. He dwells especially, too, upon
the perfect protection afforded by the waxen Agnus Dei. How strong
this current was, and how difficult even for philosophical minds to op-
pose, is shown by the fact that both Descartes f and Francis Bacon
speak of it with respect, Bacon admitting the fact, and suggesting
very mildly that the bells may accomplish this purpose by the concus-
sion of the air.J
But no such moderate doctrine sufficed, and the renowned Bishop
Binsfeld, of Treves, in his great treatise on the credibility of the
confessions of witches, gave an entire chapter to the effect of bells
in calming atmospheric disturbances. Basing his general doctrine
upon the first chapter of Job and the second chapter of Ephesians,
he insisted on the reality of diabolic agency in storms ; and then, by
theological reasoning, corroborated by the statements extorted in the
torture-chamber, he showed the efficacy of bells in putting the hellish
legions to flight.* This continued, therefore, an accepted tenet, de-
veloped in every nation, and coming to its climax near the end of the
seventeenth century. At that period the period of Isaac Newton
Father Augustine de Angelis, rector of the Clementine College at
Rome, published under the highest church authority his lectures upon
meteorology. Coming from the center of Catholic Christendom, at
so late a period, they are very important as indicating what had been
developed under the influence of theology during nearly seventeen
hundred years. This learned head of a great college at the heart of
Christendom taught that the surest remedy against thunder is that
* See Olaus Magnus, Pe gentibus scptcntrionalibus (Rome, 1555), lib. i, c. 12, 13.
f See his Sylva Sylvarum, cent, ii, p. 103 (cited by Montanus, as above).
% See his Natural History, ii, cent. 2, 127. In his Historia Ycntorum he again
alludes to the belief, and without comment.
* See Binsfeld, De Confessionibus ilalef. (pp. 308-314, of edition of 1623).
