464 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
against any possible error, issued a bull exhorting the inquisitors of
heresy and witchcraft to use greater diligence against the human
agents of the Prince of Darkness, and especially against those who
have the power to produce bad weather. In 1445 Pope Eugene re-
turned again to the charge, and again issued instructions and com-
mands infallibly committing the Church to the doctrine.* But a
greater than Eugene followed and stamped the idea yet more deeply
into the mind of the Church. On the 7th of December, 1484, Pope
Innocent VIII sent forth his bull Summis Desiderantes. Of all
documents ever issued from Rome, imperial or papal, this has doubt-
less, first and last, cost the greatest shedding of innocent blood. Yet
no document was ever more clearly dictated by conscience. Inspired
by the scriptural command, Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live,
Pope Innocent exhorted the clergy of Germany to leave no means un-
tried to detect sorcerers, and especially those who by evil weather
destroy vineyards, gardens, meadows, and growing crops.f These
precepts were based upon various texts of Scripture, especially upon
the famous statement in the book of Job ; and, to carry them out,
witch-finding inquisitors were authorized by the Pope to scour Europe,
especially Germany, and a manual was prepared for their use, the
Witch-Hammer, Malleus Malejlcarum. In this manual, which
was revered for centuries, both in Catholic and Protestant countries,
as almost divinely inspired, the doctrine of Satanic agency in atmos-
pheric phenomena was further developed, and various means of de-
tecting and punishing it were dwelt upon. J
With the application of torture to thousands of women, in accord
ance with the precepts laid down in this work, it was not difficult to
extract masses of proof for this sacred theory of meteorology. The
poor creatures, writhing on the rack, held in horror by those who had
been nearest and dearest to them, anxious only for death to relieve
their sufferings, confessed to anything and everything that would
satisfy the inquisitors and judges. All that was needed was that the
inquisitors should ask leading questions * and suggest satisfactory
answers: the prisoners, to shorten the torture, were sure sooner or later
to give the answer required, even though they knew that this would
* See Raynaldus, Annales Eccl., 1437, 1445.
f The Latin text of the bull may be found in the Malleus about to be described, in
Binsfelds De Confcssionibus, cited below, or in Roskoff s Geschichte des Teufels
(Leipsic, 1869), i, 222-225.
\ There is, so far as I know, no good analysis, in any English book, of the con-
tents of the Witch-Hammer ; but such may be found in Roskoffs Geschichte des
Teufels, or in Soldans Geschichte der Hexenprozesse. Its first dated edition is that
of 1489. It was, happily, never translated into any modern tonpue.
* For still extant lists of such questions, see the Zeitschrift fur deutschen Cultur-
geschichte for 1858, pp. 522-528, or Diefenbach, Der Hcxenwahn in Deutschland,
pp. 15-17. Father Vincent of Berg (in his Enchiridium ) gives a similar list for use
by priests in the confession of the accused.
