NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 465
send them to the stake or scaffold. Under the doctrine of excepted
cases, there was no limit to torture for persons accused of heresy
or witchcraft ; even the safeguards which the old pagan world had
imposed upon torture were thus thrown down, and the prisoner must
confess.
The theological literature of the middle ages was thus enriched
with numberless statements regarding modes of Satanic influence on the
weather. Pathetic, indeed, are the records ; and none more so than the
confessions of these poor creatures, chiefly women and children, during
hundreds of years, as to their manner of raising hailstorms and tem-
pests. Such confessions, by tens of thousands, are still to be found in
the judicial records of Germany, and indeed of all Europe. Typical
among these facts thus revealed is one on which great stress was
laid during ages, and for which the world was first indebted to one of
these poor women. Crazed by the agony of torture, she declared that,
returning with a demon through the air from the witches sabbath,
she was dropped upon the earth in the confusion which resulted among
the hellish legions when they heard the bells sounding the Ave
Maria. It is sad to note that, after a confession so valuable to sacred
science, the poor woman was condemned to the flames. This revela-
tion speedily ripened the belief that, whatever might be going on at
the witches sabbath no matter how triumphant Satan might be at
the moment of sounding the consecrated bells the Satanic power was
paralyzed. This theory once started, proofs came in to support it,
during a hundred years, from the torture-chambers in all parts of
Europe. Throughout the later middle ages the Dominicans had been
the main agents in extorting and promulgating these revelations, but
in the centuries following the Reformation the Jesuits devoted them-
selves with even more keenness and vigor to the same task.* Some
curious questions incidentally arose. It was mooted among the ortho-
dox authorities whether the damage done by storms should or should
not be assessed upon the property of convicted witches: the theolo-
gians inclined decidedly to the affirmative ; the jurists, on the whole,
to the negative.
But, in spite of these tortures, lightning and tempests continued,
and great men arose in the Church throughout Europe in every genera-
tion to point out new cruelties for the discovery of weather-makers,
and new methods for bringing their machinations to naught. Here
and there, indeed, a thinker endeavored to modify or oppose this view.
Early in the sixteenth century Paracelsus called attention to the re-
verberation of cannon as explaining the rolling of thunder,f but he
was confronted by one of the greatest men of his time. Jean Bodin,
as superstitious in natural as he was rational in political science, made
* For proofs of this, see not only the histories of witchcraft, but also the Annuse
litterae of the Jesuits themselves, passim.
f See the citation from him in Fromonds Meteorologica, lib. iii, c. 9.
vol. xxxi. 30
