466 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
sport of this scientific theory, and declared thunder to he a flaming
exhalation set in motion by evil spirits, and hurled downward with a
great crash and a horrible smell of sulphur. * In support of this
view, he dwells upon the confessions of tortured witches, upon the
acknowledged agency of demons in the w r ill-o-the wisp, and specially
upon the passage in the 104th Psalm, Who maketh his angels spir-
its, his ministers a flaming fire. f To resist such powerful arguments
by such powerful men was dangerous indeed. In 1513, Pomponatius,
professor at Padua, published a volume of Doubts as to the Fourth
Book of Aristotles Meteorologica, \ and also dared to question this
power of devils ; but he soon found it advisable to explain that, while
as a philosopher he might doubt, yet as a Christian he of course be-
lieved everything taught by Mother Church devils and all and
so escaped the fate of several others who dared to question the agency
of witches in atmospheric and other disturbances. Before the end
of the sixteenth century, Cornelius Loos, professor in the Univer-
sity of Treves, daring to express similar doubts, was seized by the In-
quisition, forced to recant, and banished. Just a century later the
Protestant divine, Balthasar Bekker, in Holland, who ventured not
only to question the devils power over the weather, but to deny his
bodily existence altogether, was solemnly tried by the synod of his
church, and expelled from his pulpit, while his views were condemned
as heresy, and overwhelmed with a flood of refutations whose mere
catalogue would fill pages ; and these cases were but typical of many.
The great upholders of the orthodox view retained full possession of
the field. Famous among these was Bishop Binsfeld, of Treves, who,
toward the end of the sixteenth century, wrote a book to prove that
everything confessed by the witches under torture, especially the rais-
ing of storms and the general controlling of the weather, was worthy
of belief ; and this book became throughout Europe a standard au-
thority, both among Catholics and Protestants.* Even more inflexible
was Remigius, criminal judge in Lorraine. On the title-page of his
manual | he boasts that within fifteen years he had sent nine hundred
persons to death for this imaginary crime.
Protestantism fell into the superstition as fully as Catholicism. In
* He adds : Id certissimam daemonis praesentiam signifieat : nam ubicunque daemones
cum hominibus nefaria societatis fide copulantur, foodissimum semper relinquunt sulphuris
odorem, quod sortilegi saepissime experiuntur et confitcntur.
f See Bodins Universas Naturae Theatrum (Frankfort, 1597), pp. 208-211.
% The first edition of this book, which was the earliest of Pomponatiuss writings, is
excessively rare ; but it was reprinted at Venice just a half-century later. It is in his
De incantalwnibus, however, that he speaks especially of devils. As to Pomponatius, see
Creightons History of the Papacy during the Reformation, and an excellent essay in
Francks Moralistes et Philosophes.
* It bore the title of Tractatus de confessionibus malcficorum et sagarum. First
published at Treves in 1589, it appeared subsequently four times in the original Latin, as
well as in two distinct German translations, and in a French one.
J Paamonolatrcia, first printed at Lyons in 1595.
