468 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Fromundus, at the University of Louvain, the oracle of his age, who
had demonstrated the futility of the Copernican theory, now tends
toward the inevitable attempt at compromise, and declares that devils,
though often, are not always, or even for the most part, the causes
of thunder.* And the learned Jesuit, Caspar Schott, whose Physica
Curiosa was one of the most popular books of the seventeenth cent-
ury, ventures only the same mild statement, f But even such a con-
cession by so great champions of orthodoxy did not prevent frantic
efforts in various quarters to bring the world back under the old
dogma, and, as late as 1743, we find a manual by Father Vincent of
Berg,J in which the superstition is taught to its fullest extent, issued
for the use of priests, under the express sanction of the theological
professors of the University of Cologne.
It was hardly out of press, when there came a death-blow to the
whole theory. In 1752 Franklin made his experiments with the kite
on the banks of the Schuylkill ; and, at the moment when he drew the
electric spark from the cloud, the whole tremendous fabric of theologi-
cal meteorology reared by the Fathers, the Popes, the mediaeval Doc-
tors, and the long line of great theologians, Catholic and Protestant,
collapsed ; the Prince of the power of the air tumbled from his
seat ; the great doctrine which had so long afflicted the earth was
prostrated forever.
The experiment of Franklin was repeated in various parts of Eu-
rope, but, at first, the Church seemed careful to take no notice of it.
The old church formulas against the powers of the air were still
used, but the theological theory, especially in the Protestant Church,
began to grow milder. Four years after Franklins discovery Pastor
Karl Koken, member of the Consistory and official preacher to the City
Council of Hildesheim, was moved by a great hailstorm to preach and
publish a sermon on The Revelation of God in Weather. # Of
the prince of the power of the air he says nothing the whole
theory of diabolical agency is thrown overboard altogether ; his whole
attempt is to save the older and more harmless theory, that the storm
is the voice of God. He insists that, since Christ told Nicodemus that
men know not whence the wind cometh, it can not be of mere natural
origin, but is sent directly by God himself, as David intimates in the
Psalm, out of His secret places. As to the hailstorm, he lays great
stress upon the plague of hail sent by the Almighty upon Egypt, and
* See Fromunduss Meteorologica (London, 1656) lib. iii, c. 9, and lib. ii, c. 3.
f See Schotts Physica Curiosa (edition of Wiirzburg, 166*7), p. 1249.
\ His Enchiridium quadripartitum (Cologne, 1743). Besides benedictions and ex-
orcisms for all emergencies, it contains full directions for the manufacture of the Agnus
Dei, and of another sacred panacea called IJeiligthum, not less effective against evil
powers, gives formulae to be worn for protection against the devil, suggests a list of
signs by which diabolical possession may be infallibly recognized, and prescribes the
questions to be asked by priests in the examination of witches.
* Die Offenbarung Gottes in Wetter (Hildesheim, 1756).
