NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 469
clinches all by insisting that God showed at Mount Sinai his purpose
to startle the body before impressing the conscience.
While the theory of diabolical agency in storms was thus drooping
and dying, very shrewd efforts were made at compromise, such as we
always see in the history of every science when its victory is fully in
sight. The first of these attempts we have already noted in the effort
to explain the efficacy of bells in storms by their simple use in stirring
the faithful to prayer, and in the concession made by sundry theolo-
gians, and even by the great Lord Bacon himself, that church-bells
might, under the sanction of Providence, disperse storms by agitating
the air. This gained ground somewhat, though it was resisted by one
eminent church authority, who answered shrewdly that, in that case,
cannon would be even more pious instruments.* Still another argu-
ment used in trying to save this part of the theological theory was
that the bells were consecrated instruments for this purpose, like the
horns at whose blowing the walls of Jericho fell.
But these compromises were of little avail. In 1766 Father Ster-
zinger attacked the very groundwork of the whole diabolic theory.
He was, of course, bitterly assailed, insulted, and hated ; but the Church
thought it best not to condemn him. More and more, the Prince of the
power of the air retreated before the lightning-rod of Franklin. The
older Church, while clinging to the old theory theoretically, was finally
obliged to confess the supremacy of Franklins theory practically ; for
his lightning-rod did what exorcisms, and holy water, and processions,
and the Agnus Dei, and the ringing of church-bells, and the rack,
and the burning of witches, had failed to do. This was clearly seen,
even by the poorest peasants in Eastern France, when they observed
that the grand spire of Strasburg Cathedral, which neither the sacred-
ness of the place, nor the bells within it, nor the holy water and relics
beneath it, could protect from frequent injuries by lightning, was
once and for all protected by Franklins rod. Then came into the
minds of multitudes the answer to the question which had exercised
for ages the leading theological minds of Europe, namely, Why
should the Almighty strike his own consecrated temples, or suffer Satan
to strike them ?
Yet even this practical solution of the great question was not re-
ceived without opposition. The first lightning-conductor upon a church
in England was not put up until 1762, ten years after Franklins dis-
covery. The spire of Saint Brides Church in London was greatly in-
jured by lightning in 1750, and in 1764 a storm so wrecked its masonry
that it had to be mainly rebuilt ; yet for years after this the authorities
refused to attach a lightning-rod! f The Protestant Cathedral of Saint
Pauls in London was not protected until sixteen years after Franklins
discovery, and the tower of the great Protestant church at Hamburg
* See Gretnas De Bencdictionibus, lib. ii, c. 46.
f See Priestley, History of Electricity, p. 407.
