47 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not until a year later still. As late as 1783 it was declared in Germany,
on excellent authority, that within a space of thirty-three years nearly
four hundred towers had been damaged, and one hundred and twenty
bell-ringers killed.
In Roman Catholic countries a similar prejudice was shown, and
its cost at times was heavy. In Austria the church of Rosenberg,
in the mountains of Carinthia, was struck so frequently, and with such
loss of life, that the peasants feared at last to attend service. Three
times was the spire rebuilt, and it was not until 1778 twenty-six
years after Franklins discovery that the authorities permitted a rod
to be attached. Then all trouble ceased.
Typical in Italy was the tower of Saint Marks at Venice. In spite
of the angel at its summit and the bells consecrated to ward off the
powers of the air, and the relics in the cathedral hard by, and the
processions in the adjacent piazza, the tower was frequently injured
and even ruined by lightning. In 1388 it was badly shattered ; in
1417, and again in 1489, the wooden spire surmounting it was utterly
consumed ; it was again greatly injured in 1548, 1565, 1653, and in
1745 was struck so powerfully that the whole tower, which had been
rebuilt of stone and brick, was shattered in thirty-seven places. Al-
though the invention of Franklin had been introduced into Italy by the
physicist Beccaria, the tower of Saint Marks still went unprotected,
and was again badly struck in 1761 and 1762 ; and not until 1766
fourteen years after Franklins discovery was a lightning-rod placed
upon it : and it has never been struck since.
So, too, though the beautiful tower of the Cathedral of Siena, pro-
tected by all possible theological means, had been struck again and
again, much opposition was shown to placing upon it what was gen-
erally known as the heretical rod ; but the tower was at last pro-
tected by Franklins invention, and in 1777, though a very heavy bolt
passed down the rod, the church received not the slightest injury.
This served to reconcile theology and science, so far as that city was
concerned ; but the case which did most to convert the Italian theolo-
gians to the scientific view was that of the church of Saint-Nazaire at
Brescia. The Republic of Venice had stored in the vaults of this
church over two hundred thousand pounds of powder. In 1767 sev-
enteen years after Franklins discovery no rod having been placed
upon it, it was struck by lightning, the powder in the vaults was ex-
ploded, one sixth of the entire city destroyed, and over three thousand
lives lost.*
Such examples as these, in all parts of Europe, had their effect.
The formulas for conjuring off storms, and for consecrating bells to
ward off lightning and tempests, and for putting to flight the powers
of the air, were still allowed to stand in the liturgies ; but the
lightning-rod, the barometer, and the thermometer, carried the day.
* Sec article on Lightning in the Edinburgh Review for October, 1844.
