NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 471
A noble line of investigators succeeding Franklin completed his vic-
tory. The traveler in remote districts of Europe still hears the
church-bells ringing during tempests ; the Polish or Italian peasant is
still persuaded to pay fees for sounding bells to keep off hailstorms ;
but the universal tendency favors more and more the use of the light-
ning-rod, and of the insurance-offices where men can be relieved of the
ruinous results of meteorological disturbances in accordance with the
scientific laws of average, based upon the ascertained recurrence of
storms. So, too, though many a poor seaman trusts to his charm that
has been bathed in holy water, or that has touched some relic, the
tendency among mariners is to value more and more those warnings
which are sent far and wide each day over the earth and under the
sea by the electric wires in accordance with laws ascertained by obser-
vation.
Yet, even in our own time, attempts to revive the old theological
doctrine of meteorology have not been wanting. Two of these, one
in a Roman Catholic and another in a Protestant country, will serve
as types of many, to show how completely scientific truth has satu-
rated and permeated minds supposed to be entirely surrendered to
the theological view.
The Island of Saint Honorat, just off the southern coast of France,
is deservedly one of the places most venerated in Christendom. The
monastery of Lerins, founded there in the fourth century, became
a mother of similar institutions in Western Europe, and a center of
religious teaching for the Christian world. In its atmosphere, legends
and myths grew in beauty and luxuriance. Here, as the chroniclers
tell us, at the touch of Saint Honorat, burst forth a stream of living
water, which a recent historian of the monastery declares a greater
miracle than that of Moses ; here he destroyed, with a touch of his
staff, the reptiles which infested the island, and then forced the sea to
wash away their foul remains. Here, to please his sister, Sainte-Mar-
guerite, a cherry-tree burst into full bloom every month ; here he
threw his cloak upon the waters and it became a raft, which bore him
safely to visit the neighboring island ; here, Saint Patrick received
from Saint Just the staff with which he imitated Saint Honorat by
driving all reptiles from Ireland.
Pillaged by Saracens and pirates, the island was made all the
more precious by the blood of Christian martyrs. Popes and kings
made pilgrimages to it ; saints, confessors, and bishops went forth from
it into all Europe ; in one of its cells, Saint Vincent of Lerins wrote
that famous definition of pure religion* which, for nearly fifteen hun-
dred years, has virtually superseded that of Saint James. Naturally,
the monastery became most illustrious, and its seat the Mediterra-
nean Isle of Saints.
* That religion is that which is received always, everywhere, and by all (semper,
ulique, ab omnibus).
