MEGALITEIC MONUMENTS. 39
the unknown. To do this is not to destroy the grounds of religion,
though, as science advances, doctrinal and historical systems may have
to undergo progressive modifications. It is one thing to be asked to
change the form of religion, and quite another to he summoned to
part with its substance. The latter demand has never, so far as we
are aware, been made in the name of science by any authorized expo-
nent. It is no new thing for religion to go forth in search of new
ground. Suppose that we have now frankly to acknowledge that
the old conceptions of special creation and providential design are
no longer tenable in the light of modern knowledge, shall religion
fail from among us ? Never, unless we are willing it should fail.
If we ourselves are faithful, Religion, though she may have to abide
for a time in tabernacles, will still be with us, and all our thoughts and
all our investigations will be hallowed by her influence. Evolution
is simply the current form of scientific opinion ; we adhere to it be-
cause it seems to be the truth. Religion is that instinct in man which
leads him to recognize and worship that which is highest and best.
Far, then, from our submission to the truth cutting us off from religion,
it should, and it will, bring religion nearer to us, and enable us some
day to place it upon imperishable foundations, and to make it the abid-
ing consecration of all thought and effort.
MEGALITHIC MONUMENTS IN SPAIN AND
PORTUGAL.
By the Marquis de NAD A ILL AC.
VTOTHING in the ancient history of man is of more considerable
-L.N interest than are those monuments, at once rudely grand and
mysteriously simple, which have been designated megalithic. They
may be simply raised stones, isolated menhirs, cromlechs arranged in
a circle, or artificial caves formed by placing flat flags horizontally on
standing supports. Dolmens or covered passages were usually buried
under masses of earth or stones, so as to form veritable tumuli ; but
they always present the common character of being constructed in
rough blocks, virgin of all human labor.
Megaliths are important on account of their number* and their
dispersion. They are to be found, with a likeness running through
them all, in places most remote from one another, on different conti-
nents. At Carnac and at Kermarin are immense rows of stones, of
* A French sub-commission on megalithic monuments was appointed in 1879, for the
purpose of assuring the preservation of the more important among these structures. An
imperfect count, made under its direction, raised the number of dolmens, menhirs, polis-
soirs, basin-stones, and rocking-stones, still standing in France, to 6,310. Tumuli, which
are very numerous, are not included in this enumeration.
