472 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But, toward the close of the last century, its inmates having become
slothful and corrupt, it was dismantled, all save a small portion torn
down, and the island became the property, first of impiety, embodied
in a French actress, and finally of heresy, embodied in an English
clergyman.
Bought back for the Church by the Bishop of Frejus in 18G9, there
was little revival of life for twelve years. Then came the reaction,
religious and political, after the humiliation of France and the Vatican
by Germany ; and of this reaction the monastery of Saint Honorat was
made one of the most striking outward and visible signs. Pius IX
interested himself directly in it, called into it a body of Cistercian
monks, and it became the chief seat of their order in France. To re-
store its sacredness the strict system of La Trappe was established
labor, silence, meditation on death. The word thus given from Rome
was seconded in France by cardinals, archbishops, and all churchmen
especially anxious for promotion in this world or salvation in the
next. Worn-out dukes and duchesses of the Faubourg Saint-Ger-
main united in this enterprise of pious reaction with the frivolous
youngsters, the petits creves, who haunt the purlieus of Notre Dame
de Lorette. The great church of the monastery was handsomely
rebuilt and a multitude of altars erected ; and beautiful frescoes and
stained windows came from the leaders of the recation. The whole
effect was, perhaps, somewhat too theatrical and thin, but it showed
none the less earnestness in making the old Isle of Saints a protest
against the hated modern world.
As if to bid defiance still further to modern liberalism, great store
of relics was sent in among these, pieces of the true cross, of the white
and purple robes, of the crown of thorns, sponge, lance, and Avinding-
sheet of Christ the hair, robe, veil, and girdle of the Blessed Virgin
relics of Saint John the Baptist, Saint Joseph, Saint Mary Magdalene,
Saint Paul, Saint Barnabas, the four Evangelists, and a multitude of
other saints ; so many that the bare mention of these treasures re-
quires twenty-four distinct heads in the official catalogue recently
published at the monastery. Besides all this what was considered
even more powerful in warding off harm from the revived monastery
the bodies of Christian martyrs were brought from the Roman
catacombs and laid beneath the altars.*
All was thus conformed to the mediaeval view ; nothing was to be
left which could remind one of the nineteenth century ; the ages of
faith were to be restored in their simplicity. Pope Leo XIII com-
mended to the brethren the writings of Saint Thomas Aquinas, as
their one great object of study ; and works published at the monas-
tery dwelt upon the miracles of Saint Honorat as the most precious
refutation of modern science.
* See the Guide des Visiteurs a LeVins, published at the monastery in 18S0, p. 204 ;
also the Histoire de Lerins, mentioned below.
