NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 473
High in the cupola, above the altars and relics, were placed the
bells. Sent by pious donors, they were solemnly baptized and con-
secrated in 1871, four bishops officiating, a multitude of the faithful
being present from all parts of Europe, and the sponsors of the great
tenor bell being the Bourbon claimant to the ducal throne of Parma
and bis duchess. The good bishop who baptized the bells consecrated
them with a formula announcing their efficacy in driving away the
prince of the power of the air, and the lightning and tempests he
provokes.
And then, above all, at the summit of the central spire, high above
relics, altars, and bells, was placed a lightning-rod! 1
The account of the monastery, published under the direction of the
present worthy abbot, more than hints at the saving, by its bells, of
a ship which was wrecked a few years since on that coast ; and yet,
to protect the bells and church and monks and relics from the very
foe whom, in the mediaeval faith, all these were thought most power-
ful to drive away, recourse was had to the scientific discovery of that
arch-infidel, Benjamin Franklin !
Perhaps the most striking recent example in Protestant lands of
this change from the old to the new, occurred not long since in one of
the great Pacific dependencies of the British crown. At a time of
severe drought, an appeal was made to the bishop, Dr. Moorhouse, to
order public prayers for rain. The bishop refused, advising the peti-
tioners for the future to take better care of their water-supply, virtually
telling them, Heaven helps those who help themselves. But most
noteworthy in this matter was it that the English Government, not
long after, scanning the horizon to find some man to take up the good
work laid down by the lamented Bishop Fraser, of Manchester, chose
Dr. Moorhouse ; and his utterance upon meteorology, which a few
generations since would have been regarded by the whole Church
as blasphemy, was universally alluded to as an example of strong good
sense, proving him especially fit for one of the most important bishop-
rics in England.
Throughout Christendom, the prevalence of the conviction that
meteorology is obedient to laws, is more and more evident. In
cities especially, where men are accustomed each day to see posted in
public places charts which show the storms moving over various
parts of the country, and to read in the morning papers scientific
prophecies as to the weather, the old view can hardly be very in-
fluential.
* See Guide, as above, p. 84. Les Isles de Lerins, by the Abbe Alliez (Paris,
1860), and the Histoire de Lerins, by the same author, are the authorities for the gen-
eral history of the abbey, and are especially strong in presenting the miracles of Saint
Honorat, etc. The Cartulaire of the monastery, recently published, is also valuable.
But these do not cover the recent revival, for an account of which recourse must be
had to the very interesting and naive Guide already cited.
