474 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Significant of this was the feeling of the American people during
the fearful droughts a few years since in the States west of the Mis-
souri. No days were appointed for fasting and prayer to bring rain
there was no attribution of the calamity to the wrath of God or the
malice of Satan ; but much was said regarding the folly of our people
in allowing the upper regions of their vast rivers to be denuded of
forests, thus subjecting the States below to alternations of drought
and deluge. Partly as a result of this, a beginning has been made of
teaching forest-culture in many schools, tree-planting societies have
been formed, and Arbor-day is recognized in several of the States.
A true and noble theology can hardly fail to recognize in the love of
Nature and care for our fellow-men thus promoted, something far
better, both from a religious and a moral point of view, than any
efforts to propitiate the Divine anger by flattery, or to avert Satanic
malice by f etichism.
THE FALLS OF THE MISSISSIPPI.
By JOHN AENOLD KEYES.
THE Mississippi River and its tributaries, forming as they do one of
the most important river systems on the globe, and draining one
of the most richly-furnished continental areas, present, moreover, many
interesting geological studies, and open up fields of curious inquiry
to the investigator. The old discussions as to the possibility or im-
possibility of things has, for the most part, passed out of existence in
this department of science. No one now denies the general principles
of geology as at present taught; therefore new regions of investigation
are to be approached on the firm foundation of the old, and difficult
matters settled in conformity with established principles. That there
is no new thing under the sun is a saying well worn, but in one sense
correct, yet the same thing recognized as a fact in one situation may
under other circumstances seem a fallacy. The Falls of Niagara are
familiar to all, and came to exist through causes natural and easy of
explanation, inasmuch as the whole secret lies in the character of the
formations over which the river flows, viz., a crust made up of from
sixty to one hundred feet of comparatively hard limestone lying in a
nearly horizontal position, beneath which is a deep deposit of shales
and sandstones. Whenever the river in wearing its channel back
reached the point where this arrangement of rocks began, the hard
limestone would naturally resist the erosive action of the waters, while
the underlying shales and sandstones, offering less resistance, would be
rapidly cut away, until a vertical fall such as is now seen would be
the result, with a constant recession going on, leaving b,elow the broad
canon, walled on either hand by bluffs, the crests of which are pre-
served by the limestone crowning them.
