THE FALLS OF THE MISSISSIPPI. 475
These few reflections as to the falls and gorge of Niagara, fully-
demonstrated by forces now in active operation, we shall apply to the
Mississippi. Here also a mighty water-way has been cut out by
erosion, a fact which is universally conceded, but no definite expla-
nation of the process has heretofore, so far as we have been able to
learn, been advanced. It remained for a geology-reading inventor by
the name of Robert Bates to suggest a theory which, illuminated with
what little investigation we have been able to give it, promises to offer
a solution of the question, or to assist in its solution. The theory
briefly is, that the erosion was accomplished by means of a mighty
cataract which began far down the river near its original mouth, and
by gradual retrocession dug out the valley-like gorge which is so
marked a feature in the upper part of its course, and left the high
bluff walls on either hand, at the same time depositing heavy beds of
sand at the bottom of the canon, the product of the erosion above,
and that St. Anthony Falls are the ever decreasing and receding rem-
nants of the once most stupendous cataract the world ever saw, having
a perpendicular descent of perhaps six hundred feet.
Stretching over almost the entire Mississippi Valley immediately
overlying the Azoic rocks lie the old and extensive beds of the Pots-
dam sandstone, a formation of great thickness composed of shales and
friable sandstones.
From the Wisconsin River to the Falls of St. Anthony the forma-
tions through which the Mississippi has cut its way are first, the St.
Lawrence, or, as Owen has termed it, lower magnesian limestone,
very analogous to the Niagara formation in density and durability.
This stratum is from one hundred and fifty to two hundred and
twenty-five feet in thickness, and lies in a nearly horizontal position,
dipping somewhat to the west, but not to any great extent between
the Wisconsin River and St. Anthony Falls. Second, underlying this
and forming a part of the Potsdam group is the St. Croix sandstone,
with perhaps other sand-rock and shales local in extent. A section of
the bluff in Houston County, Minnesota, gives the St. Lawrence
crowning it a thickness of nearly two hundred feet, with three hundred
and twenty feet of sand-rock and shale beneath.
Another measurement of a bluff in the town of Richmond, Winona
County, indicates a little over one hundred and ten feet of limestone
overlying four hundred feet of St. Croix sandstone. Other measure-
ments have been made in different localities, but without doubt these
already given indicate the general positions and relative thickness of
the different strata. The conditions, it will here be observed, are sim-
ilar to those existing at Niagara, viz., a hard limestone superimposing
a soft sandstone and shale deposit.
These bluff walls rise on either hand to a height of from three hun-
dred to five hundred and fifty feet above the water-level of the river,
and have been laterally furrowed and eroded by streams flowing from
