476 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the adjacent country, and in a much greater degree by glacial action,
as it is a well-established fact that the river had cut its way (except for
a short distance below St. Anthony) prior to the glacial epoch. On
account of this lateral furrowing the bluff walls present a broken and
serrated appearance, but this, when rightly considered, does not in the
least militate against the correctness of the cataract theory. The
valley gorge, which is from two to six miles, is at present somewhat
wider at the top where the cliffs appear, and where wind and frost
have been free to act, than the water originally cut it, and the debris
falling below has formed a talus which, increased and modified by
glacial action, has to a considerable extent effaced the wall-like ap-
pearance which is such a marked feature of the comparatively freshly-
cut canon of Niagara.
Another fact which has hitherto received no satisfactory explana-
tion is the deep accumulation of sand in the valley-bottom. There
are no data sufficient to determine the depth of this deposit, but as the
great river nowhere flows upon a rock-bed, but everywhere, except in
its extreme northern section, has a sand bottom ; and, as cities and
villages are built within the bluffs on the compact accumulations at
the sides of the present channel, we conclude that it must have a
depth of several hundred feet.
If the gorge had been chiseled out by a process of gradual wear
(which would have been the case if the strata had been of uniform re-
sisting power), then the river should flow upon a rock-bed, and not
upon 6and, for the latter would, as it now does, protect the underlying
strata from all wear. Upon the cataract hypothesis this peculiar con-
dition can be met with an easy and satisfactory explanation. The
descent of the Mississippi is very gradual. Directly at the base of
the falls, wherever they may have originated, the sand-rock would
be cut down to a depth determined by the comparative hardness of
the rocks and the volume of water. For a short distance below the
descent the rock would be swept clean of sand and debris, except, per-
haps, the large limestone chunks fallen from above, but as the stream
came to flow more evenly below the falls, sand from the erosion above
would be deposited at the bottom. Two other existing conditions
would assist in the deposit : first, the very slight fall of the river ; and,
second, the detached masses of limestone broken from the crest of the
falls would help to collect and retain the sediment, and thus the accu-
mulation would begin. All these facts, taken in connection with the
further fact that no bluffs appear above St. Anthony Falls, while they
are continuous below, except where broken by the lateral erosion,
have a tendency to establish the theory advanced. Just how far to
the south the requisite conditions of stratification exist, we have not
as yet ascertained, but they probably exist wherever the limestone-
capped bluffs bound the river. If the limestone formation is want-
ing at any place, there rapids would have taken the place of falls,
