THE FALLS OF THE MISSISSIPPI. 477
and so continued until the limestone again appeared in its natural
position.
There are no rock-bluffs below the confluence of the Ohio with the
Mississippi, but about thirty miles above that point they abruptly rise
on both sides of the river at what is called the Grand Chain, a high
rock ridge traversing the region from east to west, and which lies at a
considerable height above the sea-level. There, in all probability, the
river had its original outlet, and there, without doubt, the cataract
process began, although the character of the stratification is unknown
to us. At the time the erosion was in progress, there must have been
several times the present volume of water flowing in the river, spread-
ing out wider than the bluff, even, as an occasional terrace shows.
The same perpendicular rock-walls and sand-bottom characterize the
Wisconsin River for a distance of eighty miles from its junction with
the Mississippi ; the position and character of the stratification being
much the same, indicating that the same agency was active in the
erosion of both channels.
St. Anthony Falls have been studied by Professor Winchell, and
he has arrived at the conclusion from various data that the falls have
worked their way back from a point near Fort Snelling to where they
now are, a distance of about eight miles, since the glacial period, and
he estimates that it has taken about five thousand years to accomplish
the work, which estimate, taken as a basis of calculation, and allowing
a margin of at least one third, gives us the time necessary to cut out
the entire channel at, say, four hundred thousand years ; and this, if,
as we maintain, the cataract process wrought the gorge not only from
Fort Snelling northward, but from far down the river, at or near the
ancient outlet, is without doubt a conservative estimate of the time
actually required.
We have thus briefly outlined the new theory of the Mississippi ero-
sion, and this is written with the expectation that the barbed arrows of
scientific criticism will be aimed toward it ; but, if so, it will aid in the
solution of a question hitherto little studied. Many things point toward
the theory here advanced as being at least quite possible, and even
probable. Its final solution will, however, necessitate painstaking in-
vestigation, with the attention directed to that especial object.
Madame Clemenoe Rotek, writing in the Revue dAnthropologie, does
not doubt that, under a proper system of training, apes might be made good
workers. They lack perseverance, indeed, but in general intelligence they are
superior to most other domestic animals. They would, however, have to be fed
great quantities of fruit, bread, and eggs ; the process of educating them would
be costly ; and for many generations they would be injuriously affected by north-
ern climates. Madame Royer suggests that, if the experiment be made, it be first
in tropical climates, where apes might be taught to labor in connection with the
cultivation of coffee, cocoa, and cotton.
