478 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ASTRONOMY WITH AN OPERA-GLASS.
THE MOON AND THE SUN.
By GAEKETT P. SEKVISS.
4 i -r-p j s a mos t beautiful and delightful sight, exclaims Galileo, in
-L describing the discoveries he had made with his telescope, to
behold the body of the moon, which is distant from us nearly sixty
semi-diameters of the earth, as near as if it was at a distance of only
two of the same measures. . . . And, consequently, any one may know
with the certainty that is due to the use of our senses that the moon
assuredly does not possess a smooth and polished surface, but one
rough and uneven, and, just like the face of the earth itself, is every-
where full of vast protuberances, deep chasms, and sinuosities.
There was, perhaps, nothing in the long series of discoveries with
which Galileo astonished the world after he had constructed his tele-
scope, which, as he expresses it, was devised by me through Gods
grace first enlightening my mind, that had a greater charm for him
than his lunar observations. Certainly there was nothing which he
has described with greater enthusiasm and eloquence. And this could
hardly have been otherwise, for the moon was the first celestial object
to which Galileo turned his telescope, and then for the first time
human eyes may be said to have actually looked into another world
than the earth, though his discoveries and those of his successors have
not realized all the poetic fancies about the moon contained in the
verses that are ascribed to Orpheus :
And he another wandering world has made
Which gods Selene name, and men the moon.
It mountains, cities has, and temples grand.
Yet Galileos observations at once upset the theory, for which Apollo-
nius was responsible, and which seems to have been widely prevalent
up to his time, that the moon was a smooth body, polished like a
mirror, and presenting in its light and dark spots reflections of the
continents and oceans of the earth. lie also demonstrated that its sur-
face was covered with plains and mountains, but the cities and
temples of the moon have remained to our time only within the ken
of romance.
Galileos telescope, as I have before remarked, was, in the principle
of its construction, simply an opera-glass of one tube. He succeeded
in making a glass of this kind that magnified thirty diameters, a very
much higher power than is given to the opera- and field-glasses of to-
day. Yet he had to contend with the disadvantages of single lenses,
achromatic combinations of glass for optical purposes not being con-
