ASTRONOMY WITH AN OPERA-GLASS. 479
trived until nearly a hundred years after his death, and so his tele-
scope did not possess quite as decided a superiority over a modern
field-glass as the difference in magnifying power would imply. In
fact, if the reader will view the moon with a first-rate field-glass, he
will perceive that the true nature of the surface of the lunar globe can
be readily discerned with such an instrument. Even a small opera-
glass will reveal much to the attentive observer of the moon ; but for
these observations the reader should, if possible, make use of a field-
glass, and the higher its power the better. The illustrations accom-
panying this article were made by the author with the aid of a glass
magnifying six diameters.
Of course, the first thing the observer will wish to see will be the
mountains of the moon, for everybody has heard of them, and the
most sluggish imagination is stirred by the thought that one can look
off into the sky and behold the eternal hills of another planet as
solid and substantial as our own. But the chances are that, if left to
their own guidance, ninety-nine persons out of a hundred would choose
exactly the wrong time to see these mountains. At any rate, that is
my experience with people who have come to look at the moon through
my telescope. Unless warned beforehand, they invariably wait until
full moon, when the flood of sunshine poured perpendicularly upon the
face of our satellite conceals its rugged features as effectually as if a
veil had been drawn over them. Begin your observations with the
appearance of the narrowest crescent of the new moon, and follow it
as it gradually fills, and then you will see how beautifully the advanc-
ing line of lunar sunrise reveals the mountains, over whose slopes and
peaks it is climbing, by its ragged and sinuous outline. The observer
must keep in mind the fact that he is looking straight down upon the
tops of the lunar mountains. It is like a view from a balloon, only at
a vastly greater height than any balloon has ever attained. Even with
a powerful telescope the observer sees the moon at an apparent dis-
tance of several hundred miles, while with a field-glass, magnifying six
diameters, the moon appears as if forty thousand miles off. The ap-
parent distance with Galileos telescope was eight thousand miles.
Recollect how when seen from a great height the rugosities of the
earths surface flatten out and disappear, and then try to imagine how
the highest mountains on the earth would look if you were suspended
forty thousand miles above them, and you will, perhaps, rather wonder
at the fact that the moons mountains can be seen at all.
It is the contrast of lights and shadows that not only reveals them
to us, but enables us to measure their height. On the moon shadows
are very much darker than upon the earth, because of the extreme
rarity of the moons atmosphere, if indeed it has any atmosphere at
all. By stepping around the corner of a rock there, one might pass
abruptly from dazzling noonday into the blackness of midnight. The
surface of the moon is extraordinarily rough and uneven. It possesses
