480 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
broad plains, which are probably the bottoms of ancient seas that have
now dried up, but these cover only about two fifths of the surface
visible to us, and most of the remaining three fifths are exceedingly
rugged and mountainous. Many of the mountains of the moon are,
foot for foot, as lofty as the highest mountains on the earth, while all
of them, in proportion to the size of the moons globe, are much larger
than the earths mountains. It is obvious, then, that the sunshine as
it creeps over these Alpine landscapes in the moon, casting the black
shadows of the peaks and craters many miles across the plains, and
capping the summits of lofty mountains with light, while the lower
regions far around them are yet buried in night, must clearly reveal
the character of the lunar surface. Mountains that can not be seen at
all when the light falls perpendicularly upon them, or, at the most,
appear then merely as shining points, picture themselves by their
shadows in startling silhouettes when illuminated laterally by the
rising sun.
But at full moon, while the mountains hide themselves in light, the
old sea-beds are seen spread out among the shining table-lands with
great distinctness. Even the naked eye readily detects these as ill-
defined, dark patches upon the face of the moon, and to their presence
are due the popular notions that have prevailed in all quarters of the
world about the Man in the Moon, the Woman in the Moon,
Jacob in the Moon, the Hare in the Moon, the Toad in the
Moon, and so on. But, however clearly one may imagine that he dis-
cerns a man in the moon while recalling the nursery rhymes about
him, an opera-glass instantly puts the specter to flight, and shows the
round lunar disk diversified and shaded like a map.
A feature of the full moons surface that instantly attracts attention
is the remarkable brightness of the southern part of the disk, and the
brilliant streaks radiating from a bright point near the lower edge.
The same simile almost invariably comes to the lips of every person
who sees this phenomenon for the first time It looks like a peeled
orange. The bright point, which is the great crater-mountain
Tycho, looks exactly like the pip of the orange, and the light streaks
radiating from it in all directions bear an equally striking resemblance
to the streaks that one sees upon an orange after the outer rind has
been removed. I shall have something more to say about these curious
streaks farther on ; in the mean time, let us glance at our first illustra-
tion, which is a small sketch-map of the moon.
The so-called seas are marked on the map, for the purpose of refer-
ence, by the letters which they ordinarily bear in lunar maps. The
numerals indicate craters, or ring-plains, and mountain-ranges. The
following key-list will enable the reader to identify all the objects that
are lettered or numbered upon the map. I have given English trans-
lations of the Latin names which the old astronomers bestowed upon
the seas :
