484 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
phenomenon of earth-shine on the lunar surface must he looked for be-
fore the first quarter and after the last quarter of the moon.
The reader will find it an attractive occupation to identify, by
means of the map, the various seas, lakes, and marshes, for
not only are they interesting on account of the singularity of their
names, but they present many remarkable differences of appearance,
which may be perceived with the instrument he is supposed to hi
using. The oval form of the Crisian Sea (A), which is the first of the
seas to come into sight at new moon, makes it a very striking ob-
ject. With good telescopes, and under favorable illumination, a de-
cidedly green tint is perceived in the Crisian Sea. It measures about
two hundred and eighty by three hundred and fifty-five miles in ex-
tent, and is, perhaps, the deepest of all the old sea-beds visible on the
moon. It is surrounded by mountains, which can be readily seen
when the sun strikes athwart them a few days after new or full
moon. On the southwestern border a stupendous mountain-promon-
tory, called Cape Agarum, projects into the Crisian Sea fifty or sixty
miles, the highest part rising precipitously eleven thousand feet above
the floor of the sea. I have seen Cape Agarum very clearly defined
with a field-glass. Near the eastern border is the crater-mountain
Proclus, which I have already mentioned as possessing great brilliancy
under a high sun, being in this respect second only to Aristarchus.
From the foot of Proclus spreads away the somewhat triangular
region called the Marsh of Sleep (F). The term golden-brown,
which has been applied to it, perhaps describes its hue well enough.
With a telescope it is a most interesting region, but with less power-
ful instruments one must be content with recognizing its outline and
color.
The broad, dark-gray expanse of the Sea of Tranquillity (G) will
be readily recognized by the observer, and he will be interested in the
mottled aspect which it presents in certain regions, caused by ridges
and elevations, which, when this sea-bottom was covered with water,
may have formed shoals and islands.
The Sea of Fertility (X) is remarkable for its irregular surface,
and the long, crooked bays into which its southern extremity is di-
vided.
The Sea of Nectar (V) is connected with the Sea of Tranquillity
by a broad strait (one would naturally anticipate from their names
that there must be some connection between them), while between it
and the Sea of Fertility runs the range of the Pyrenees Mountains,
twelve thousand feet high, flanked by many huge volcanic mountain-
rings.
The Sea of Serenity (IT), lying northeast of the Sea of Tranquillity,
is about four hundred and twenty miles broad by four hundred and
thirty miles long, being very nearly of the same area as our Caspian
Sea. It is deeper than the Sea of Tranquillity, and a greenish hue is
