486 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
trasted with the dusky semicircle at their feet, and have been able to
detect the presence of the low ridges that cross the front of the bay
like shoals, separating it from the sea outside. Two or three days
after first quarter, the shadows of the peaks about the Bay of Rain-
bows may be seen. The Bay of Dew (R) above the Bay of Rain-
bows, and the Sea of Cold (C), are the northernmost of the dark levels
visible. It was in keeping with the supposed character of this region
of the moon that Riccioli named two portions of it the Land of Hoar
Frost and the Land of Drought.
Extending along the eastern side of the disk is the great Ocean of
Storms (Q), while between the Ocean of Storms and the middle of the
moon lies the Sea of Clouds (S). Both of these are very irregular in
outline, and much broken by ridges and mountains. The Sea of Hu-
mors (T), although comparatively small, is one of the most easily seen
of all the lunar plains. To the naked eye it looks like a dark, oval
patch on the moon. With a telescope it is seen, under favorable con-
ditions, to possess a decided green tint. Humboldt Sea (B) and the
South Sea (Z) belong principally to that part of the moon which is
always turned away from the earth, and only their edges project into
the visible hemisphere, although under favorable librations, their fur-
ther borders, lined as usual with mountain-peaks, may be detected.
For our purposes they possess little interest.
Let us now glance at some of the mountains and craters. The
dark oval called Grimaldi (1) can be detected by the naked eye, or at
least it has been thus seen, although it requires a sharp eye ; and per-
haps a shade of London smoke-glass, to take off the glare of the moon,
should be used in looking for it. It is simply a plain, containing some
fourteen thousand square miles, remarkable for its dark color, and sur-
rounded by mountains. Schickhard (7) is another similar plain, nearly
as large, but not possessing the same dark tint in the interior. The
huge mountains around Schickhard make a fine spectacle when the sun
is rising upon them shortly before full moon.
Tycho (9) is the most famous of the crater-mountains, though not
the largest. It is about fifty-four miles across and three miles deep,
In its center is a peak five or six thousand feet high. Tycho is the
radial point of the great light-streaks that, as I have already re-
marked, cause the southern half of the moon to be likened to a peeled
orange. It is a tough problem in selenography to account for these
streaks. They are best seen at full moon. They can not be seen at
all until the sun has risen to a certain elevation above them, 25 ac-
cording to Neison ; but, when they once become visible, they dominate
everything. They turn aside for neither mountains nor plains, but
pass straight on their courses over the ruggedest regions of the moon,
retaining their brilliancy undiminished, and pouring back such a flood
of reflected light that they completely conceal some of the most stu-
pendous mountain-masses across which they lie. They clearly consist
