ASTRONOMY WITH AN OPERA-GLASS.
487
of different material from that of which the most of the moons sur-
face is composed a material possessing a higher reflective power. In
this respect they resemble Aristarchus and other lunar craters that
are remarkable for their brilliancy under a high illumination. Tycho
itself, the center or hub, from which these streaks radiate like spokes,
is very brilliant in the full moon. But immediately around Tycho
there is a dark rim some twenty-live miles broad. Beyond this rim
the surface becomes bright, and the bright region extends about ninety
miles farther. Out of it spring the great rays or streaks which vary
from ten to twenty miles in width, and many of which are several
hundred miles long one, which we have already mentioned as extend-
ing across the Sea of Serenity, being upward of two thousand miles
in length. It has been truly said that we have nothing like these
streaks upon the earth, and so there is no analogy to go by in trying
to determine their nature. It has been suggested that if the moon had
been split or shattered from within by some tremendous force, and
molten matter from the interior had been thrust up into the cracks
thus formed, and had cooled there into broad seams of rock, possessing
a higher reflective power than the surrounding surface of the moon,
then the appearances presented would not be unlike what we actually
see. But there are serious objections to such a view, which we have
not space to discuss here. It is
enough to say that the nature of
these streaks is still a question
awaiting solution, and here is an
opportunity for an important dis-
covery, but one not to be achieved
with an opera-glass.
Clavius (It) is one of the most
impressive of all the lunar forma-
tions. There probably does not
exist anywhere upon the earth so
wild a scene upon a correspond-
ing scale of grandeur. Of course,
its details are far beyond the reach
of the instrument we are supposed
to be using, and yet even with a
field -glass, or a powerful opera-
glass, some of its main features
are visible. It is represented in our third illustration, being the low-
est and largest of the ring-like forms seen at the inner edge of the
illuminated half of the disk ; the rays of the rising sun touching
the summits of some of the peaks in its interior have brought them
into sight as a point of light, and at the same time, reaching across
the gulf within, have lighted up the higher slopes of the great mountain-
wall on the farther or eastern side of the crater valley, making it re-
Fig. 3. Sunrise on Clavius, Tycho,
Plato, Etc.
