ASTRONOMY WITH AN OPERA-GLASS. 489
center of the moon contains some of the grandest of these strange
configurations of conjoined mountain, plain, and crater. The names
of the principal ones can be learned from the map, and the reader will
find it very interesting to watch them coming into sight about first
quarter, and passing out of sight about third quarter. At such times,
with a field-glass, some of them look like enormous round holes in the
inner edge of the illuminated half of the moon. Theophilus (23),
Cyrillus (24), and Catharina (25), are three of the finest walled plains
on the moon Theophilus, in particular, being a splendid specimen of
such formations. This chain of craters may be seen rapidly coming
into sunlight at the edge of the Sea of Nectar, in our second illustra-
tion. The Altai Mountains (26) are a line of lofty cliffs, two hundred
and eighty miles in length, surmounting a high table-land.
The Caucasus Mountains (38) are a mass of highlands and peaks,
which introduce us to a series of formations resembling those of the
mountainous regions of the earth. The highest peak in this range is
about nineteen thousand feet. Between the Caucasus and the Apen-
nines (44) lies a level pass, or strait, connecting the Sea of Serenity
with the Sea of Showers. The Apennines are the greatest of the lunar
mountain - chains, extending some four hundred and sixty miles in
length, and containing one peak twenty-one thousand feet high, and
many varying from twelve thousand to nearly twenty thousand. It
will thus be seen that the Apennines of the earth sink into insignifi-
cance in comparison with their gigantic namesakes on the moon. As
this range runs at a considerable angle to the line of sunrise, its high
peaks are seen tipped with sunlight for a long distance beyond the
generally illuminated edge about the time of first quarter. Even with
the naked eye the sun-touched summits of the lunar Apennines may
at that time be detected as a tongue of light projecting into the dark
side of the moon. The Alps (41) are another mountain-mass of great
elevation, whose highest peak is a good match for the Mont Blanc of
the earth, after which it has been named.
Plato (42) is a very celebrated dark and level plain, surrounded by
a mountain-ring, and presenting in its interior many puzzling and ap-
parently changeable phenomena which have given rise to much specu-
lation, but which, of course, lie far beyond the reach of opera-glasses.
Plato is seen in our third illustration, being the second ring from
the top.
Copernicus (46) is the last of the lunar formations that we shall
describe. It bears a general resemblance to Tycho, and is slightly
greater in diameter ; it is, however, not quite so deep. It has a cluster
of peaks in the center, whose tops may be detected with a field-glass,
as a speck of light when the rays of the morning sun, slanting across
the valley, illuminate them while their environs are yet buried in
night. Copernicus is the center of a systeni of light-streaks some-
what resembling those of Tycho, but very much shorter.
