MEGALITHIC MONUMENTS.
4i
These antas frequently served for a considerable number of burials
each, and in that case the entrance-gallery seems to have been kept
open. At other times, a single corpse was deposited, and the crypt
was closed, as the friends thought, forever.
Notwithstanding it has suffered considerable mutilations, the crypt of
the great anta of Freixo
i i r 1 - , i , /:. : r
] i \
!lf
stem
Fig. 1. Anta op the Wood of Freixo.
(Fig. 1) is still standing,
although the corner-stone
has disappeared and the
covered gallery has be-
come dilapidated. The
walls of the crypt, which
is 4 metres in diameter,
are composed of seven
stones, 3 - 80 metres high,
while the entrance is only
45 centimetres wide.
Numerous antas have been explored at various times in search of
the treasures which popular traditions suppose to be hidden in them ;
and scattered bricks, pieces of pottery, iridescent glass, and rubbish of
the Roman period, testify to the energy of the diggers. The neolithic
articles under the dolmens which remain unviolated are similar to
those in the megaliths of the neighboring countries. The anta of
Portimao has furnished hatchets, stone adzes, steatite heads, and ad-
mirably worked arrow-heads ; that of Monte- Abrahao * hatchets of
trap and diorite, stone scrapers, a button of bone and pearls of Calais,
that precious stone described by Pliny and remaining unknown from
his time ; the anta of
Estria, a curious plaque
of slate covered with
straight or broken lines
and resembling an epis-
copal crozier in shape ;
and the dolmen of Nora,
besides flakes and finely
cut arrow-heads, a highly
ornamented ivory disk,
the use of which it is
hard to determine. The
burial-place of Marcella (Fig. 2}, a regular cromlech, is one of the rich-
est in funeral paraphernalia. There have been collected from it, to-
gether with fine specimens of flint-flakes, retouched on the edges, and
of triangular points, three vases covered with ornaments, and forty-
three hatchets, nearly all of diorite, and remarkable specimens of work.
Human bones, belonging to more than eighty persons of all ages and both sexes,
have been collected from within this dolmen.
3*
Fig. 2. Burial-place op Marcella, Algarve Plan and
Profile View.
