492 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
As in all such cases, our interest in the phenomena increases in pro-
portion to our understanding of their significance and their true scale
of magnitude. In glancing from side to side of the suns disk, the eye
ransres over a distance of more than 860,000 miles not a mere ideal
distance, or an expanse of empty space, but a distance filled by an
actual and, so to speak, tangible body, whose diameter is of that stu-
pendous magnitude. One sees at a glance, then, the enormous scale
on which these spots are formed. The earth placed beside them would
be but a speck, and yet they are mere pits in the surface of the sun,
filled perhaps with partially cooled metallic vapors, which have been
cast up from the interior, and are settling back again. It is worth
anybodys while to get a glimpse at a sun-spot if he can, for, although
he may see it merely as a black dot on the shining disk, yet it repre-
sents the play of physical forces whose might and power are there
exercised on a scale really beyond human comprehension. The im-
agination of Milton or Dante would have beheld the mouth of hell
yawning in a sun-spot.
In order to view the sun, it is, of course, necessary to contrive some
protection for the eyes. This may be constructed by taking two strips
of glass four or five inches long and an inch wide, and smoking one of
them until you can without discomfort look at the sun through it.
Then place the two strips together, with the smoked surface inside
taking care to separate them slightly by pieces of cardboard placed
between the ends and fasten the edges together with strips of paper
gummed on. Then, by means of a rubber band, fasten the dark glass
thus prepared over the eye-end of your opera-glass in such a way that
both of the lenses are completely covered by it. It will require a little
practice to enable you to get the sun into the field of view and keep
it there, and for this purpose you should assume a posture sitting, if
possible which will enable you to keep the glass very steady. Then
point the glass nearly in the direction of the sun, and move it slowly
about until the disk comes in sight. It is best to carefully focus
your glass on some distant object before trying to look at the sun
with it.
As there is some danger of the shade-glass being cracked by the
heat, especially if the object-glasses of the instrument are pretty large,
it would be well to get the strips of glass for the shade large enough
to cover the object-end of the instrument instead of the eye-end. At
a little expense an optician will furnish you with strips of glass of
complementary tints, which, when fastened together, give a very pleas-
ing view of the sun without discoloring the disk. Dark red with dark
blue or green answer very well ; but the color must be very deep.
The same arrangement, of course, will serve for viewing an eclipse
of the sun.
