MANUAL TRAINING IN SCHOOL EDUCATION. 493
MANUAL TRAINING IN SCHOOL EDUCATION.
By Sir PHILIP MAGNUS.
Manual labor i8 the study of the external world. 1 Emekson.
THE first object of education being to bring the mind of man into
direct relation with its surroundings, and as this communion is
only possible through the senses, the importance of the cultivation of
the senses is duly insisted upon by all educational authorities. Now,
of the several organs through which we obtain a knowledge of the
external world, the sense of touch and the muscular sense have a cer-
tain prominence as giving us perceptions which are mainly intellectual.
For this reason we should expect that the training of the muscular
and tactile sensibility of the hand, and the training of the muscular
sense generally, as exercised in the determination of size, shape, and
resistance, would form an essential factor of education. But so little
has this been the case that, until comparatively recent times, the train-
ing of the faculties by which we obtain, at first hand, our knowledge
of the things about us has been sadly neglected, and education has
consisted mainly in storing the memory with words, with the state-
ments and opinions of others, and with inferences therefrom. Apart
altogether from the value of the constructive power which manual
skill affords, the knowledge of the properties of matter which is ob-
tained in the acquisition of that skill is considerable, and can not be
equally well acquired in any other way. It is this which gives to
manual training its value as an educational discipline, and it is mainly
for this reason that it is coming to be regarded as an important part
of the educational system of nearly every country. The introduc-
tion of manual work into our schools is important, says Sir John Lub-
bock, not merely from the advantage which would result to health,
not merely from the training of the hand as an instrument, but also
from its effect on the mind itself. * And it is to this effect on the
mind that I desire to call especial attention in this article.
By manual training one commonly means exercises in the use of
the tools employed in working wood and iron.
It can not be too often repeated that the object of workshop prac-
tice, as a part of general education, is not to teach a boy a trade, but
to develop his faculties and to give him manual skill ; that, although
the carpenters bench and the turners lathe are employed as instru-
ments of such training, the object of the instruction is not to create
carpenters or joiners, but to familiarize the pupil with the properties
of such common substances as wood and iron, to teach the hand and
eye to work in unison, to accustom the pupil to exact measurements,
* Fortnightly review, October, p. 467.
