494 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and to enable him by the use of tools to produce actual things from
drawings that represent them. The discipline of workshop instruc-
tion may be regarded as supplementary to that of drawing, with
which, however, it should always be associated, as teaching a knowl-
edge of substance in addition to that of form. Moreover, under com-
petent instructors, it may be made an instrument of education similar,
in many respects, to practical science. In the workshop, the opera-
tions to be performed are less delicate, the measurements are not re-
quired to be so exact, the instruments are more easily understood, the
substances employed are more ordinary ; but the training is very
similar, and in so far as the faculties exercised are those of observation
rather than of inference, the training, educationally considered, is a
fitting introduction to laboratory practice. At the same time, the
skill acquired in the workshop is particularly serviceable to the labora-
tory student in enabling him to make and fit apparatus, and in giving
him that adroitness on which progress in scientific work so much de-
pends. But while a certain amount of manual training is valuable
in the education of all classes of persons a fact which is already rec-
ognized by the head-masters of several of our best secondary schools
the usefulness of this kind of training is much greater in the case
of the children of the working-classes, whose education is too limited
and often too hurried to admit of any practical science-teaching, such
as older children obtain, and to whom the skill acquired is of real
advantage in inducing in them an aptitude and taste for handicrafts,
in facilitating the acquisition of a trade, and possibly in shortening
the period of apprenticeship, or of that preliminary training which in
so many occupations takes the place of it.
An objection is sometimes raised to the intioduction of manual
training into elementary schools on the ground that, as the children
of the working-classes necessarily leave school at an early age, and
spend their lives for the most part in manual work, such time as they
can give to study should be occupied in other pursuits in cultivating
a taste for reading, and in the acquisition of book-knowledge. This
objection is due to a misconception of the true objects and aims of
education, and to an imperfect knowledge of what is meant by work-
shop instruction. To assume that the best education can be given
through the medium of books only, and can not be equally well ob-
tained from the study of things, is a survival of the medievalism
against which nearly all modern educational authorities protest. But
there is another and more deeply -rooted error in this argument.
People often talk and write as if school-time should be utilized for
teaching those things w T hich a child is not likely to care to learn in
after-life ; whereas the real aim of school education should be to create
a desire to continue in after-life the pursuit of the knowledge and the
skill acquired in school. In other words, the school should be made, as
far as possible, a preparation for the whole work of life, and should
