MANUAL TRAINING IN SCHOOL EDUCATION. 495
naturally lead up to it. The endeavor of all educators should be to
establish such a relation between school instruction and the occupa-
tions of life as to prevent any break of continuity in passing from one
to the other. The methods by which we gain information and expe-
rience in the busy world should be identical with those adopted in
schools.
It is because the opposite theory has so long prevailed, that our
school-training has proved so inadequate a preparation for the real
work of life. This was not the case in former times ; and the demand
for technical instruction, both in our elementary and in our secondary
schools, is a protest against the contrast which has so long existed
between the subjects and methods of school-teaching and the practi-
cal work of every-day life.
We are always justly complaining that in this country children leave
school at too young an age, before they can have had time to properly
assimilate the knowledge they have acquired, with the result that they
soon forget a great part of the little they have learned. At the age of
fifteen or sixteen, when they begin to feel the want of technical
instruction, they are wholly unprepared to avail themselves of the op-
portunities for obtaining it now brought within their reach. It is to
remedy this state of things that continuation schools and recreative
classes are much needed. But there can be little doubt, if elementary
education were made more practical, that parents would be more
willing, even at some sacrifice, to let their children benefit by it.
They are often led to take their children away from school, because
they do not see much use in the schooling. Of course, the desire
to secure the childs early earnings operates in very many cases ; but
I am convinced that it would be easier to persuade parents to forego
these earnings, if the school-teaching had more direct reference to the
work in which the children are likely to be subsequently occupied.
Now, in order that manual training may serve the purpose of an
intellectual discipline, the methods of instruction must be carefully
considered. That the training of the hand and eye, and the develop-
ment of the mental faculties, are the true objects of the instruction
should never be lost sight of. In many respects, the instruction should
partake of the character of an ordinary object-lesson. Before the pupil
commences to apply his tools to the material in hand, he should learn
something of its nature and properties. The teacher, in a few words
introductory to each lesson, should explain to his pupils the distin-
guishing characteristics of different kinds of wood, as met with in the
shop and as found in Nature, and also the differences in the structure
and properties of wood according to its sections, treatment, etc. And
he should illustrate his lessons by reference to specimens and exam-
ples, a collection of which should be found in every school workshop.
Something should be said of the countries from which timber is im-
ported, and the conditions under which it is bought and sold, and in
