496 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
this way the material to be manipulated should be made the center of
a series of scientific object-lessons.
Concurrently with the practice in the use of any tool, the pupil
should learn its construction, the reason of its shape, and the history
of its development from other simpler forms. The saw, the plane, the
chisel, and the calipers should each be made the subject of an object-
lesson to the pupils. In the same way, the teacher should explain the
purposes of the different parts of constructive work, and should have
models of tenon, mortise, dovetailing, and other joints to illustrate
his explanations.* Fifteen or twenty minutes thus spent might be
made the means of stimulating the intelligence and of exercising the
observing and reasoning faculties of the children, and of enabling
them to fully understand the work they are doing and the instruments
they are using.
Further, the children should be taught, from the very first, to work
from correct scale-drawings, made by themselves from their own rough
sketches. How simple soever the object may be which the pupil is
to construct, it should exactly correspond with his own drawings. In
this way, the workshop instruction supplements and gives a meaning
to the drawing-lesson, and the school-teaching is made to have a direct
bearing upon the subsequent work of the artisan. Dr. Woodward,
the instructor of the St. Louis Manual Training-School, who has had
considerable experience in organizing and superintending workshop
instruction, tells us that the habit of working from drawings and to
nice measurements gives to students confidence in themselves alto-
gether new ; and he justly claims that it is the birthright of every
child to be taught the three methods of expression : 1. By the written,
printed, or spoken word. 2. By the pencil and brush, using the vari-
ous kinds of graphic art. 3. Through the instrumentality of tools and
materials, which enable one to express thought in the concrete. f The
Committee of Council on Education, in their recent report, speaking
of the teaching of cooking to girls, say : After the three elementary
subjects and sewing, no subject is of such importance for the class of
girls who attend public elementary schools, and lessons in it, if prop-
erly given, will be found to be not only of practical use, but to have
the effect of awakening the interest and intelligence of the children.
Surely, what is true of sewing and cooking in the case of girls, is true
to a greater extent of drawing and handicrafts in the case of boys.
In many parts of the Continent manual training has now for some
years been associated with elementary instruction. In France, Bel-
gium, Austria, Holland, and Sweden the workshop is a part of the
school-building ; and in the United States the number of manual train-
ing-schools of higher grade, somewhat similar to the well-known ap-
* Collections of these models for school purposes are sold by Messrs. Schroder, of
Darmstadt.
f Proceedings of International Conference on Education, London, 1884, vol. li, p. 58.
