MANUAL TRAINING IN SCHOOL EDUCATION 497
prenticeship-schools of France, is steadily increasing. Indeed, judging
from the published accounts of these schools, and from the writings
of some of the most prominent educationists in the United States, an
enthusiasm is spreading among Americans in favor of workshop instruc-
tion, which is likely to have an important influence on the industrial
progress of this eminently practical and inventive people.
In the report of the Commissioners on Technical Instruction, no-
tices will be found of some of the principal Continental schools which
are now fitted with workshops. Sir John Lubbock, in the article above
quoted, has supplemented this information by reference to the Slojd
system of manual instruction which is adopted in Sweden. An inter-
esting account of this system has been written b} r M. Sluys, who is
well known to educationists from his connection with the ficole Modele
of Brussels. Since the report of the commissioners was published, the
movement in favor of workshop-teaching in schools has advanced rap-
idly in France. Nearly every large town has now its higher element-
ary school (a type of school as yet scarcely to be found in this coun-
try) fitted with workshops for wood and iron ; and, out of one hundred
and seventy-four primary schools supported by the city of Paris, nine-
ty-five are now provided with workshops, ninety for instruction in
carpentry and wood-turning, and five for metal-work. In these schools
the manual teaching has hitherto been given either before or after the
ordinary school-hours ; but the Municipal Council of Paris attach such
importance to this training that it is proposed to make the workshop
instruction a part of the regular school curriculum. This change will
necessitate a rearrangement of the school-hours and the provision of
workshops in the remaining seventy-nine schools in which they have
not yet been fitted. But it is confidently expected that the munici-
pality of Paris, which has done so much for the technical education
of its artisans, will not hesitate to incur this additional expense. The
action of the city of Paris gives additional weight to the recommenda-
tion of the English commissioners on this subject.
Experiments of introducing workshops into elementary schools
have been tried in this country, with results sufficiently encouraging
to justify the extension of the system. In Sheffield, Birmingham, and
Glasgow the results have been eminently satisfactory. In London the
experiment has recently been tried on a small scale, and under not the
most favorable circumstances, in the Beethoven Street schools ; but
the report of Mr. Tate, the energetic head-master, is so encouraging
that the School Board of London is very desirous of extending the
system of instruction to a large number of the schools under its con-
trol. In his report to the board, Mr. Tate says :
This class was started on September 28, 1885, in a shed or workshop built
by the board in a recess in the playground, and the instruction is given by the
school-keeper, a carpenter by trade, under the direct supervision of the head-
master.
vol. xxxi. 32
