5 oo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
yet be formed. Much depends on the system adopted. If the in-
struction were given during school-hours, it would take the place of
some other lesson, and, by a proper arrangement of time-tables, might
be given at very little additional expense. In some of the schools in
which the experiment has been already tried, special teachers have
been appointed, who have received a certain fee for each lesson. But
if several schools in the same district combined, one teacher might be
engaged, and either the children might be brought to a common cen-
ter, as in the case of the cookery-classes, or the teacher might go from
school to school, as in the case of the science-teaching in Birmingham
and Liverpool. The latter plan might be more convenient for the
schools ; but the former plan would be more economical, as enabling
one shop and certain tools to be used by several sets of children.
It would be necessary under any circumstances that the instruction
should be encouraged by a system of grants, or by some equivalent
external aid. A system might be organized of paying grants on the
results of the individual work of each pupil ; but all the disadvan-
tages of the method of payment by results would be emphasized
in the case of workshop instruction, and the teaching would lose much
of its disciplinary value. The amount of the grant should depend
mainly on the average number of children in attendance. A grant of
four shillings, as in the case of cookery-lessons, and the recognition of
the subject by the Education Department, would afford sufficient en-
couragement to induce certain school boards and school managers to
make manual training a part of the curriculum of the schools under
their control. The total amount of these grants would be but a slight
addition to our education expenses. According to the last report, the
whole number of children presented for examination in the sixth and
seventh standards was 112,455. Of these, we may assume that about
60,000 are boys. Supposing half this number to elect to receive work-
shop instruction, the grant would amount to G,000 a year. But even
this estimate is excessive as an addition to our present expenditure.
For many of the children might take handicrafts in lieu of one of the
specific subjects on which grants are now paid.* It may, therefore, I
think, be asserted that, the workshops being once equipped, the addi-
tional cost in grants of introducing handicraft teaching into the cur-
riculum of our elementary schools would not exceed 5,000 a year ;
and for this comparatively small expenditure about 30,000 boys might
be annually sent out into the world from our elementary schools en-
dowed with practical skill at their fingers ends, imbued with a taste
* It may be well here incidentally to call attention to the relatively small amount of
grants earned for specific subjects. Out of 352,860 children, who last year were examined
in elementary subjects in the fifth, sixth, and seventh standards, only 64,376 presented
themselves in specific subjects, the total amount of grant paid being 14,662 lis. 8c?. Of
the children on account of whom these grants were earned, Sir John Lubbock tells us
that less than 25,000 were examined in any branch of science.
