4 2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Some human bones lay in the midst of these memorials of human wealth.
Unfortunately, they have been scattered.
We can not leave the antas of Portugal without mentioning the
bowls which M. Cartailhac observed on some of the megaliths of Alem-
tejo. Such vessels have long been known in prehistoric archaeology.
They are found in Switzerland, in the Pyrenees, in Brittany, in Scot-
land, in Scandinavia, and on the rocks of Hindostan. The bowls, en-
graved on the walls of some of the crypts, recently disengaged from
their earthy envelope, have doubtless, as M. Cartailhac observes in
relating his discovery, an indisputable antiquity, value, and meaning ;
but we can not determine the age, and the value and meaning are
unknown to us. Megaliths are especially abundant in Estremadura,
the richest province in Roman Spain, now the most wretched and
least populous. They are
called garitas by the peas-
ants of the province, but
farther north, in theAstu-
rias and the Basque prov-
... .* inces, thev are known as
areas. A most remark-
able example of these
works is situated at
Equilaz, on the road
from Vittoria to Pampe-
The chamber is of a horseshoe-shape, 5 # T0 metres long and 4*50
Pig. 3. Anta of Paeedes, near Evcra.
luna.
metres wide. It was crowned by a single stone, which had been broken
recently. Another, nearly similar,with an approach covered with three
large flat stones, and a narrow entrance-way, is still to be seen at Caugas
de Onu, GO kilometres from Oviedo. We also mention the megalithic
sepulchres in the prov-
ince of Barcelona, at Pla-
Marshall, and the one near
Villalba - Saserra, known
as the Peclra area. Both
of these are placed in
the center of a cromlech
formed of stones planted
in a standing position.
The ruins of the covered
ways giving access to the
crypt are still visible.
Thirteen megalithic crypts are descrihed as remaining in Andalusia
and the ancient kingdom of Granada. The structures were formerly
much more numerous ; but they have been destroyed in the processes
of agriculture or in the search for minerals. Such a fate has overtaken
the important monument of Dilar, two leagues south of Granada.
Fig. 4. Lapa dos Moisos.
