5 o2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tersely states the whole aim and purpose of my remarks. Rabelais,
Montaigne, Pestalozzi, Froebel, Combe, Spencer, and others have
urged the importance of practical teaching, of studying things before
words, of proceeding from the concrete to the abstract. But, as yet,
such has been the inertia of school authorities and teachers, and such
the force of tradition, that we are only now beginning to employ the
methods of instruction that have been advocated for years by the
most eminent educational reformers.
In what I have said, I have endeavored to show that workshop
instruction may be made a part of a liberal education ; that, as an
educational discipline, it serves to train the faculties of observation,
to exercise the hand and eye in the estimation of form and size, and
the physical properties of common things ; that the skill acquired is
useful in every occupation of life, and is especially serviceable to
those who are likely to become artisans, by inducing taste and apti-
tude for manual work, by tending to shorten the period of apprentice-
ship, by enabling the learner to apply to the practice of his trade the
correct methods of inquiry which he has learned at school, and by
affording the necessary basis for higher technical education.
Possibly, the latest authoritative expression of opinion on the im-
portance of manual training was a resolution, unanimously agreed to at
the International Congress on Commercial and Technical Education,
recently held at Bordeaux, to the effect that it is desirable that
manual work should be rendered obligatory in primary schools of
all grades.
It is satisfactory to know, from a circular* that has recently been
sent to school managers, that this important subject is engaging the
serious attention of the Royal Commission on Education now sitting,
whose labors, it is to be hoped, may result in making our elementary
teaching more practical, less mechanical, and better adapted to the
future requirements of the working-classes. Contemporary Review.
* The circular, as published by Lord Brabazon in a letter to the Times of October
11th, contains the following questions:
1. Is the course of teaching prescribed by the Code suited to the children of your
school ?
2. What changes, if any, would you desire in the (Education Acts) ? in the Code ?
in the administration ?
3. Would you recommend the introduction into your school of practical instruc-
tion ? A. In any of the industries of the district f or in the use of tools for working
in wood or iron ? B. (for girls) in the domestic duties of home ?
Baron Eggers is about to undertake the botanical investigation of the hith-
erto unexplored higher mountains of Santo Domingo. He is under commission of
Dr. Urban, assisted by the Royal Academy of Sciences of Berlin. Collections
will be distributed in limited numbers, at prices bearing relation to the novelty
of the species.
