THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE FROM 1836 TO 1886. 503
THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE FROM 1836 TO 1886.
By GRANT ALLEN.
FIFTY years ago, science was still inchoate. Much had already
been done by the early pioneers. The ground had been cleared ;
the building-materials had been in part provided ; the foundations had
been duly and ably laid ; but the superstructure as yet had hardly
been raised a poor foot or two above the original level. The work
of the last half-century has been twofold. On one side it has been
accumulative merely : new stocks of organizable material the raw
bricks of science have been laid up, as before, ready to the call of
the master-mason, but in far greater profusion than by any previous
age. On the other side it has been directive and architectonic ; the
endless stores of fact and inference, thus dug out and shaped to the
hand by the brick-makers of knowledge in a thousand fields, have
been assiduously built up by a compact body of higher and broader
intelligences into a single grand harmonious whole. This last task
forms, indeed, the great scientific triumph of our epoch. Ours has
been an age of firm grasp and of wide vision. It has seen the down-
fall of the anthropocentric fallacy. Cosmos has taken the place of
chaos. Isolated facts have been fitted and dovetailed into their
proper niche in the vast mosaic. The particular has slowly merged
into the general, the general into still higher and deeper cosmical
concepts. We live in an epoch of unification, simplification, correla-
tion, and universality. When after-ages look back upon our own,
they will recognize that in science its key-note has been the idea of
unity.
Fifty years ago, there were many separate and distinct sciences
but hardly any general conception of science at large as a single,
rounded, and connected whole. Specialists rather insisted pertina-
ciously on the utter insularity of their own peculiar and chosen do-
main. Zoologists protested, with tears in their eyes, that they had
nothing to do with chemistry or with physics ; geologists protested
with a shrug of their shoulders, that they had nothing to do with
astronomy or with cosmical genesis. It was a point of honor with
each particular department, indeed, not to encroach on the territory
of departments that lay nearest to it. Trespassers from the beaten
path of the restricted science were prosecuted with the utmost rigor
of the law. And within the realm of each separate study, in like
manner, minor truths stood severely apart from one another ; elec-
tricity refused to be at one with magnetism, and magnetism was
hardly on speaking terms with the voltaic current. OrganiEation and
subordination of part to whole had scarcely yet begun to be even
aimed at. The sciences were each a huge congeries of heterogeneous
