5 o 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
facts or unassorted laws ; they waited the advent of their unknown
Newtons to fall into systematic and organic order.
In the pride of our hearts, we forget for the most part how very
young science still is. We who have seen that infant Hercules
strangling serpents almost from its very cradle ; we, who have beheld
it grow rapidly under our own eyes to virile maturity and adult ro-
bustness of thew and muscle we forget how new a power it is in
the world, and how feeble and timid was its tender babyhood in the
first few decades of the present century. Among the concrete sci-
ences, astronomy, the eldest-born, had advanced furthest when our
age was still young. It had reached the stage of wide general laws
and evolutionary aspirations. But geology had only just begun to
emerge from the earliest plane of puerile hypothesis into the period
of collection and colligation of facts. Biology, hardly yet known by
any better or truer name than natural history, consisted mainly of a
jumble of half-classified details. Psychology still wandered discon-
solate in the misty domain of the abstract metaphysician. The sci-
ences of man, of language, of societies, of religion, had not even be-
gun to exist. The antiquity of our race, the natural genesis of arts
and knowledge, the origin of articulate speech, or of religious ideas,
were scarcely so much as debatable questions. Among sciences of the
abstract-concrete class, physics, unilluminated by the clear light of the
principles of correlation and conservation of energy, embraced a wide
and ill-digested mass of separate and wholly unconnected departments.
Light had little enough to do with heat, and nothing at all to do in
any way with electricity, or sound, or motion, or magnetism. Chem-
istry still remained very much in the condition of Mrs. Jellabys cup-
board. Everywhere science was tentative and invertebrate, feeling its
way on earth with hesitating steps, trying its wings in air with tremu-
lous fear, in preparation for the broader excursions and wider flights
of the last three adventurous decades.
The great campaign of the unity and uniformity of Nature was the
first to be fought, and in that campaign the earliest decisive battle was
waged over the bloody field of geology. In 1837 to accept a purely
arbitrary date for the beginning of our epoch Lyell had already pub-
lished his 6ober and sensible Principles, and the old doctrine of re-
current catastrophes and periodical cataclysms was tottering to its fall
in both hemispheres. Wholesale destructions of faunas and floras,
wholesale creations of new life-systems, were felt to be out of keeping
with a humane age. Drastic cosmogonies were going out of fashion.
But even the uniformitarianism for which Lyell bravely fought and
conquered, was, in itself, but a scrappy and piecemeal conception side
by side with the wider and far more general views which fifty years
have slowly brought to us. One has only, to open the Text-Book of
Geology, by Lyells far abler modern disciple, Archibald Geikie, in
order to see the vast advance made in our ideas as to the worlds his-
