THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE FROM 1836 TO 1886. 505
tory during the course of the last half-century. The science of the
earths crust no longer stands isolated as a study by itself : it falls into
its proper place in the hierarchy of knowledge as tbe science of the
secondary changes, induced under the influence of internal forces and
incident energies, on the cooling and corrugated surface of a once in-
candescent and more extended planet. I know no better gauge of the
widening which comes over the thoughts of men with the processes of
the suns than to turn from the rudis indigestaque moles of the Prin-
ciples and the Elements (great as they both were in their own day)
to the luminous, lucid, and comprehensive arrangement of Geikies
splendid and systematic Text-Book. The one is an agreeable and
able dissertation on a number of isolated and floating geological facts ;
the other is a masterly and cosmically-minded account of the phe-
nomena observable on the outer shell of a cooling world, duly consid-
ered in all their relations, and fully co-ordinated with all the chief re-
sults of all elder and younger sister sciences.
The battle of uniformitarianism itself, however, was but a passing
episode in the great evolutionary movement. That movement began
along several distinct lines toward the close of the previous century,
and only at last consciously recognized its own informing unity of
purpose some thirty-five years ago. From another point of view in
connection with its influence upon thought at large the evolutionary
crisis has been treated elsewhere in this review by a philosophic
thinker ; but in its purely scientific aspect it must also be briefly con-
sidered here, forming, as it does, the acknowledged mainspring of all
living and active contemporary science.
Evolution is not synonymous with Darwinism. The whole im-
mensely exceeds the part. Darwinism forms but a small chapter in
the history of a far vaster and more comprehensive movement of the
human mind. In its astronomical development evolution had already
formulated itself with perfect distinctness before the period with
which we have here especially to deal. The nebular theory of Kant
and Laplace was the first attempt to withdraw the genesis of the cos-
mos from the vicious circle of metaphysical reasoning, and to account
for it by the continuous action of physical and natural principles
alone. Our own age has done much to cast doubt upon the unessen-
tial details of Kants rough conception, but, in return, it has made
clearer than ever the fundamental truth of its central idea the idea
that stars, and suns, and solar systems, consist of materials once more
diffusely spread out through space and now aggregated around certain
fixed and definite nuclei by the gravitative force inherent in their
atoms and masses. As these masses or atoms drew closer together in
union around the common center, their primitive potential energy of
separation (frankly to employ the terminology of our own time) was
changed, first into the kinetic energy of molar motion in the act of
union, and then into the kinetic energy of molecular motion or heat,
