5 o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as they clashed with one another in bodily impact around the central
core. Each star, thus produced, forever gathers in materials from its
own outlying mass, or from meteoric bodies, upon its solidifying nu-
cleus, and forever radiates off its store of associated energy to the hy-
pothetical surrounding ether. The fullest expression of this profound
cosmical conception has been given in our own time by Tait and
Balfour Stewart, working in part upon the previous results of Kant.
Laplace, the Herschels, Mayer, Joule, Clerk Maxwell, and Sir William
Thomson. Deeply altered as the nebular hypothesis has been by the
modern doctrine of correlation and conservation of energies, and by
modern researches into the nature of comets, meteors, and the suns
envelopes, it still remains in its ultimate essence the original theory
of Kant and Laplace.
Science has thus, within the period of our own half-century, exhib-
ited to us the existing phase of the universe at large in the light of
an episode in a single infinite and picturable drama, setting out long
since from a definite beginning, and tending slowly to a definite end.
Other phases, inconceivable to us, may or may not possibly have pre-
ceded it ; yet others, equally inconceivable, may or may not possibly
follow. But as realizable to ourselves, within our existing limitations,
the physical universe now reveals itself as starting in a remote past
from a diffuse and perhaps nebulous condition, in which all the mat-
ter, reduced to a state of extreme tenuity, occupied immeasurably
wide areas of space, while all the energy existed only in the potential
forms as separation of atoms or molecules ; and the evidence leads
us to look forward to a remote future when all the matter shall be
aggregated into its narrowest possible limits, w T hile all the energy, hav-
ing assumed the kinetic mode, shall have been radiated off into the
ethereal medium. Compared to the infinite cosmical vistas thus laid
open before our dazzled eyes, all the other scientific expansions of our
age shrink into relative narrowness and insignificance.
As in the cosmos so in the solar system itself, evolutionism has
taught us to regard our sun, with its attendant planets and their
ancillary satellites, all in their several orbits, as owing their shape,
size, relations, and movements, not to external design and deliberate
creation, but to the slow and regular working out of physical laws, in
accordance with which each has assumed its existing weight, and bulk,
and path, and position.
Geology here takes up the evolutionary parable, and, accepting on
trust from astronomy the earth itself as a cooling spheroid of incan-
descent matter, it has traced out the various steps by which the crust
assumed its present form, and the continents and oceans their present
distribution. Lyell here set on foot the evolutionary impulse. The
researches of Scrope, Judd, and others into volcanic and hypogene
action, and the long observations of geologists everywhere on the
effects of air, rain, ice, rivers, lakes, and oceans, have resulted in
