5 o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
phenomena of plant and animal life. But Charles Darwin had then
just returned from the cruise of the Beagle, and was revolving slowly
in his own mind the observations and ideas which blossomed out at
last into the Origin of Species. The germs of evolutionism were
already in the air. Lamarcks crude speculations had aroused the at-
tention of all the best biological intellects of the era. Before long
Chambers published the Vestiges of Creation, and Herbert Spencer
was hard at work upon the groundwork of the System of Synthetic
Philosophy. The paleontological work of Agassiz, Barraude, Owen,
and others, and the general advance in knowledge of comparative
anatomy and embryology, paved the way for the triumph of the new
ideas ; while simultaneously the dry bones of botany were being
kindled into life by a younger school of workers in many French and
German gardens and laboratories. With the appearance of the Ori-
gin of Species in 1859, the new departure definitely began. In
twenty years the whole world was converted en bloc. Evolution on
the organic side has been chiefly expounded in England by Darwin,
Huxley, Spencer, and Wallace ; and on the whole, though of world-
wide acceptance, it has been a peculiarly English movement. Hith-
erto, indeed, we Britons have been remarkable as the propounders of
the deepest and wisest scientific generalizations : it is only of late
years that our bookish educators of the new school have conceived
the noble ambition of turning us all into imitation Germans.
Life thus falls into its proper place in the scheme of things as due
essentially to the secondary action of radiated solar energy, intercepted
on the moist outer crust of a cooling and evolving planet. Its various
forms have been gradually produced, mainly by the action of natural
selection or survival of the fittest on the immense number of separate
individuals ejected from time to time by pre-existing organisms. How
the first organisms came to exist at all we can as yet only conjecture ;
to feeble and unimaginative minds the difficulty of such a conjecture
seems grotesquely exaggerated ; but granting the existence of a prime
organism or group of organisms plus the fact of reproduction with
heredity and variations, and the tendency of such reproduction to be-
get increase in a geometrical ratio, we can deduce from these simple ele-
mentary factors the necessary corollary of survival of the fittest, with
all its far-reaching and marvelous implications. Our age has discov-
ered for the first time the cumulative value of the infinitesimal. Many
a little makes a mickle ; that was Lyells key in geology, that was
Darwins key in the science of life. Herbert Spencers Principles of
Biology most fully sum up this whole aspect of evolution as applied
to the genesis of organic beings.
In 1837, the science of man, and the sciences that gather round
the personality of man, had scarcely yet begun to be dreamed of.
But evolutionism and geological investigation have revolutionized our
conception of our own species and of the place which it holds in the
