THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE FROM 1836 TO 1886. 509
hierarchy of the universe. At the very beginning of our fifty years,
Boucher de Perthes was already enthusiastically engaged in grubbing
among the drift of Abbeville for those rudely-chipped masses of raw
flint which we now know as palaeolithic hatchets. Lyell and others
meanwhile were gradually extending their ideas of the age of our race
on earth ; and accumulations of evidence, from bone-caves and loess,
were forcing upon the minds of both antiquaries and geologists the
fact that man, instead of dating back a mere trifle of six thousand
years or so, was really contemporary with the mammoth, the cave-
bear, and other extinct quaternary animals. The mass of proofs thus
slowly gathered together in all parts of the world culminated at last
in Lyells epoch-making Antiquity of Man, published three years
after Darwins Origin of Species. Colensos once famous work on
the Pentateuch had already dealt a serious blow from the critical side
at the authenticity and literal truth of the Mosaic cosmogony. It wa3
the task of Lyell and his coadjutors, like Evans, Keller, and Christy
and Lartet, to throw back the origin of our race from the narrow lim-
its once assigned it into a dim past of immeasurable antiquity. Boyd
Dawkins, James Geikie, Huxley, Lubbock, De Mortillet, and Bour-
geois have aided in elucidating, confirming, and extending this view,
which now ranks as a proved truth of paleontological and historical
science.
Darwins Descent of Man, published some years later, was an
equally epoch-making book. Lubbocks Prehistoric Times, sent
forth in 1865, and Origin of Civilization, in 1870, had familiarized
mens minds with the idea that man, instead of being an archangel
ruined, had really started from the savage condition, and had gradu-
ally raised himself to the higher levels of art and learning. Tylors
Early History of Mankind, followed a little later by his still more
important work on Primitive Culture, struck the first note of
the new revolution as applied to the genesis of religious concepts.
McLennans Primitive Marriage directed attention to the early na-
ture and relations of the tribe and family. Wallaces essay on the
Origin of Human Races, and Huxleys valuable work on Mans
Place in Nature, helped forward the tide of naturalistic explanation.
And by the time that Darwin published his judicial summing up on
the entire question of mans origin, the jury of scientific opinion
throughout the world had pretty well considered its verdict on all the
chief questions at issue.
The impetus thus given to the sciences which specially deal with
man, has been simply incalculable. Philology has been revolutionized.
Language has told us a new story. Words, like fossils, have been made
to yield up their implicit secrets. Prehistoric archaeology has assumed
a fresh and unexpected importance. The history of our race, ever
since tertiary times, and throughout the long secular winters of the
glacial epoch, has been reconstructed for us from drift and bone-cave,
