5 io THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
from barrow and picture- writing, with singular ingenuity. Anthropol-
ogy and sociology have acquired the rank of distinct sciences. The
study of institutions has reached a sudden development under the
hands of Spencer, Tylor, McLennan, Maine, Freeman, Lang, and Bage-
hot. Comparative mythology and folk-lore have asserted their right
to a full hearing. Evolutionism has penetrated all the studies which
bear upon the divisions of human life. Language, ethnography, his-
tory, law, ethics, and politics, have all felt the widening wave of its
influence. The idea of development and affiliation has been applied
to speech, to writing, to arts, to literature, nay, even to such a detail
as numismatics. Our entire view of man and his nature has been re-
versed, and a totally fresh meaning has been given to the study of
savage manners, arts, and ideas, as well as to the results of antiquarian
and archaeological inquiry.
In psychology, the evolutionary impulse has mainly manifested
itself in Herbert Spencer, and to a less degree in Bain, Sully, Ro-
manes, Croom Robertson, and others of their school. The develop-
ment of mind in man and animal has been traced pari passu with the
development of the material organism. Instinct has been clearly
separated from reason : the working of intelligence and of moral feel-
ing has been recognized in horse and dog, in elephant and parrot, in
bee and ant, in snail and spider. The genesis and differentiation of
nervous systems have been fully worked out. Here Maudsley has car-
ried the practical implications of the new psychology into the domain
of mental pathology, and Ferrier has thrown a first ray of light upon
the specific functions of portions of the brain. Galtons Hereditary
Genius and other works have also profoundly influenced the thought
of the epoch : while Bastian, Clifford, Jevons, and others have carried
the same impulse with marked success into allied lines of psychological
research.
But the evolutionary movement as a whole sums itself up most fully
of all in the person and writings of Herbert Spencer, whose active life
almost exactly covers and coincides with our half-century. It is to
him that we owe the word evolution itself, and the general concept of
evolution as a single, all-pervading natural process. He, too, has traced
it out alone through all its modes, from sun and star, to plant and ani-
mal and human product. In his First Principles, he has developed
the system in its widest and most abstract general aspects ; in the
Principles of Biology, he has applied it to organic life ; in the
Principles of Psychology, to mind and habit ; in the Principles
of Sociology, to societies, to politics, to religion, and to human activi-
ties and products generally. In Spencer, evolutionism finds its per-
sonal avatar : he has been at once its prophet, its priest, its architect,
and its builder.
Second only in importance to the evolutionary movement among
the scientific advances of our own day must be reckoned the establish-
