THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE FROM 1836 TO 1886. 511
merit of that profound fundamental physical principle, the conservation
of energy. Even before the beginning of our half-century, Davy and
Rumford (especially the latter) had caught faint glimpses of the com-
ing truth in this direction. They recognized that heat was a mode of
motion, and Rumford went so far as to observe that the energy gener-
ated by a given amount of hay burned in an engine might be measured
against the energy generated by the same amount of hay consumed by
horses. But to Dr. Joule, of Manchester, in our own time, is due the
first great onward movement, in the discovery and determination of
the mechanical equivalent of heat. Joules numerous experiments on
the exact relation between heat and mechanical energy resulted in the
establishment of a formula of equivalence in terms of kilogrammetres
necessary to raise by one degree centigrade the temperature of one
kilogramme of water. More properly put, he showed that the energy
required to raise a weight of one hundred pounds through one foot
was equivalent to the amount required to raise a certain fixed quantity
of water through one degree in temperature.
Starting from this settled point, it soon became clear to physical
thinkers that every species of energy was more or less readily converti-
ble into every other, and that an exact numerical equivalence existed
between them. This principle, which first clearly emerged into the
consciousness of physicists about the middle decades of the present
century, was originally known under the name of Persistence of
Force, in which form Groves well-known little treatise helped large-
ly to popularize its acceptance. But, as time went on, the underlying
distinction between force and energy came to be more definitely real-
ized, and the phrase conservation of energy began to supersede the
older and erroneous terminology. The realization of the varying
nature of energy as potential and kinetic helped in the transformation
of the prime concept. At last, under the hands of Clausius, Helm-
holtz, Mayer, Clerk Maxwell, Tait, and Balfour Stewart, the doctrine
assumed its modern form that all energies are mutually convertible,
and that the sum-total of energy, potential and kinetic, is a constant
quantity throughout the cosmos.
The practical applications of the doctrine of energy are as yet only
in their infancy. The whole mass of theoretical science has to be
re-written in accordance with this new and fundamental law. - The
whole field of applied science has to be developed and enlarged by the
light of this pregnant and universal principle. Its implications are
all-pervading. In astronomy it has profoundly affected all our con-
ceptions as to the suns heat, the orbits of planets, the nature of me-
teors, the past, present, and future of the universe. In biology it has
taught us to envisage the plant mainly as a machine in which kinetic
energy is being transformed into potential ; the animal mainly as a
machine in which potential energy is being transformed back again
into kinetic. In mechanics and the mechanical arts it has produced
