5 i2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and is producing immense changes. And in the future it is destined
still more profoundly to alter our mechanical ideas and activities :
the great revolution there is only just beginning ; another half-cen-
tury is yet needed fully to develop it.
These two great principles evolution and the conservation of en-
ergy form the main bulk of our ages addition to the worlds accu-
mulated stock of knowledge. But among the separate sciences many
wonderful advances have also been made which can not be overlooked
in the briefest retrospect of the half-centurys gains. To these a few
words must next be devoted.
Among sciences of the abstract-concrete group, electricity had
hardly got beyond the stage of an elegant amusement at the opening
of our epoch. Statical electricity was still the department about
which most was known. Galvanism as yet stood apart as a distinct
study. Its connection with magnetism had not long been proved by
the discoveries of Oersted. In 1837 itself, however, Wheatstone
constructed the first telegraph. From that moment, under the foster-
ing care of Faraday, Daniell, Cooke, Morse, Arago, Tyndall, Edison,
and Thomson, electric science became a power in the world. The
whole theory of electricity as a mode of energy has since been fully
explored and expounded. A vast field has been added to science.
Units and modes of absolute measurement have been invented. The
telephone and microphone have been introduced ; secondary batteries
have been formed and improved ; the dynamo has become a common
object of the country ; and the electric light has grown under our very
eyes into a practical and extremely dazzling reality. Electricity, as
we know it, with all its manifold useful applications, is almost entirely
a creation of the last half-century.
In physics the present epoch, though chiefly remarkable for the
series of investigations which led up to the discovery of the law of
conservation, has also illustrated many minor principles of the first
importance. The true theory of heat and the laws of radiant energy
have been definitely formulated. The undulatory theory of light a
discovery of the previous quarter-century has been universally
adopted and justified. Thermo-dynamics have been elevated into a
great and increasing branch of science. Sir William Thomsons law
of dissipation of energy has completed and rounded off the theory of
conservation. The causes and methods of glacier-motion have been
investigated and established. Photography has almost passed through
its entire life-cycle. The polarization of light has been observed and
studied. Spectrum analysis has come into the front rank as an instru-
ment of research. In short, a greater number of new physical phe-
nomena have been discovered or old ones interpreted than in the whole
space of previous time put together.
In chemistry, the advance has been more in detail than elsewhere.
Chemical science alone still remains a somewhat fragmentary mass
