THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE FROM 1836 TO 1886. 513
of individual facts and observations, colligated by minor laws and
analogies, but unilluminated as yet by the broad light of any great
and all-embracing general principles. Since Daltons atomic theory,
indeed, no philosophic generalization of the very first magnitude has
been introduced into chemistry. But generalizations of the second
order vastly interesting to chemists, and to chemists alone have
been made in such numbers as to defy enumeration ; wider concep-
tions have in many ways sprung up ; the science has assumed a new
form ; and some of the results of spectrum analysis and of the new
chemistry lead to the hope that this science too is on the eve of arriv-
ing at that stage of far-reaching fundamental truths, which it is the
special function of our generation to bring about.
Mathematics has also undergone a new development, scarcely
capable of being rendered comprehensible to the lay intelligence.
The applications of physical, electrical, and chemical science in the
great mechanical and industrial inventions of our iron age, belong
elsewhere, and are already familiar in many respects to all of us.
Railways slightly antedate the epoch ; the telegraph is just coeval
with it. The first submarine cable was in 1851, the first transatlantic
in 1866. Electro-plating, the steam-hammer, the Armstrong gun, the
Bessemer process, must not be forgotten. Other triumphs of applied
science fall more fitly under another heading.
Among the concrete sciences, astronomy has made vast advances
during the past half-century. Lord Rosses great telescope was set
up at Parsonstown in 1844. Two years later, Leverrier and Adams
made their curious simultaneous discovery of the planet Neptune.
But it is not so much in new lists of suns or satellites though the
name of these alone has, indeed, been legion as in the fresh light
cast upon the nature and constitution of older ones, that our age has
been most singularly successful. The invention of the spectroscope,
and the rapid development of spectrum analysis, have placed in the
hands of astronomers a method and an instrument inferior in value
only to the telescope itself. It is not so long since Comte dogmati-
cally declared we could never know anything of the chemical compo-
sition of the fixed stars. Scarcely were the words well out of his
mouth when the invention of the spectroscope and its application to
the spectra of incandescent bodies brought the investigation of the
elements in the sun and stars well within the reach of human possi-
bility. The successive researches of Wheatstone, Foucault, Secchi,
Bunsen, Kirchhoff, and Norman Lockyer, exactly covering our fifty
years, have at last enabled us to prove almost with certainty the
presence in the solar envelopes of several metals already known in .
the earths crust, such as potassium, sodium, calcium, iron, nickel, and
chromium. So delicate is the spectroscopic test, that it renders pos-
sible the detection of so small a fraction as aoo . ooo .wy P art ^ a
grain of sodium. And by revealing bright lines in the spectrum not
TOL. XXXI. 33
