5 i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
fred Russel Wallace, whose masterly works on the Geographical
Distribution of Animals, and on Island Life, have immense geo-
logical as well as biological implications.
In pure biology, besides the grand advance implied in the establish-
ment of the doctrine of descent with modification, and its subsidiary
principles of survival of the fittest and sexual selection, profoundly
important minor results have also been attained in many directions.
Embryology in the hands of Von Baer and his successors, notably
Kowalevsky and Balfour, has acquired prime importance as an instru-
ment of geological research. Comparative osteology in the hands of
Owen, Huxley, Gaudry, and Busk has given us new views of the
relationships between vertebrate animals. The pedigree of fishes,
amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals has been worked out with
a considerable degree of fullness from the hints supplied us by the
amphioxus, the ascidian larva, the facts of embryology, and the numer-
ous recent discoveries of intermediate or arrested organisms, recent
and extinct. Invertebrate zoology has been rescued from chaos and
partially reduced to temporary and uncertain order. Botany, at once
the dullest and the most alluring of all sciences, has been redeemed
from the vicious circle of mere classificatory schemes, and vivified by
the fresh and quickening breath of the evolutionary spirit. The new
morphology has revolutionized our ideas of vegetal homologies ; the
new physiology has fastened all its attention on the adaptations of the
plant to its natural environment. The fascinating study of the mu-
tual relations between flower and insect in particular, set on foot be-
fore the dawn of our epoch by Christian Sprengel, but reintroduced
to notice in recent times by Darwins works on orchids and on cross-
fertilization, has been followed out with ardor to marvelous results
by Hermann Midler, Axel, Delpino, Hildebrand, Lubbock, Ogle, and
others. Heer and Saporta have worked out in great detail the devel-
opment of several fossil floras. Last of all, Herbert Spencer has cast
the dry light of his great organizing and generalizing intelligence on
the problems of heredity, genesis, variation, individuality, and the laws
of multiplication. Fifty years ago biology was a mighty maze wholly
without a plan. To-day the clew has been found to all its main ave-
nues, and even the keys of its minor recesses are for the most part well
within reach of the enlightened observer.
Even the actual gains in the number of new organisms added to
our lists during the last half-century are in themselves astonishing ;
and, strange to say, the species that bear most closely upon the theory
of organic evolution are almost all of them quite recent additions to
our stock of knowledge. The gorilla appeared on the scene at the
critical moment for the Descent of Man. Just on the stroke when
they were most needed, connecting links, both fossil and living, turned
up in abundance between fish and amphibians, amphibians and rep-
tiles, reptiles and birds, birds and mammals, and all of these together
