THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE FROM 1836 TO 1886. 517
in a perfect network of curious cross-relationships. Lizards that were
almost crows, marsupials that were almost ostriches, insectivores that
were almost hats, rodents that were almost monkeys, have come at the
very nick of time to prove the truth of descent with modification.
Among the most interesting of these strange coincidences are such
episodes as the discovery in the rivers of Queensland of that strange
lung-bearing and gill-breathing fish, the barramunda, only known be-
fore in the fossil form as a long-extinct species, but in whose anatomi-
cal structure Giinther has discerned the missing link between the
antique ganoid type of fishes on the one hand, and the mud-fish and
salamandroid amphibians on the other.
In the practical applications of biological and physiological science
to the wants and diseases of human life two at least deserve mention
here. Anaesthetics are almost entirely a growth of our half-century :
chloroform was first employed in operations by Simpson in 1847, and
the use of other similar agents is still more recent. Again, the dis-
covery that zymotic diseases in men and animals are due to the multi-
plication within the body of very minute organisms, known as microbes,
bacteria, or bacilli, now promises to revolutionize medical science.
Their connection with decomposition was still earlier detected. The
names of Pasteur, Tyndall, and Koch are specially identified with re-
searches into the nature of these tiny morbid organisms and the best
means of preventing or neutralizing their attacks, either on living or
dead matter.
In marvelous contrast to the fragmentary and disjunctive science
of fifty years ago, modern science at the present day offers us the
spectacle of a simple, unified, and comprehensible cosmos, consisting
everywhere of the same prime elements, drawn together everywhere
by the same great forces, animated everywhere by the same constant
and indestructible energies, evolving everywhere along the same lines
in accordance with the self-same underlying principles. It shows us
the community of ultimate material in sun and star, in nebula and
meteor, in earth and air and planet and comet. It shows us identical
metals and gases in fiery photosphere and in electrically-heated matter
in our own laboratories. It shows us atoms of hydrogen or of sodium
pulsating rhythmically with like oscillations in star-cloud or sun-
cloud, and in London or Berlin. It exhibits to our eyes or to our
scientific imagination a picture of the universe as a single whole, a
picture of its evolution as a continuous process one type of matter
diffused throughout space ; one gravitative attraction binding it
together firmly in all parts ; one multiform energy quivering through
its molecules or traversing its ether, in many disguises of light, and
heat, and sound, and electricity. It unfolds for us in vague hints the
past of the universe as a diffuse mass of homogeneous matter, rolling
in upon its local centers by gravitative force, and yielding up its primi-
tive energy of separation as light and heat to the ethereal medium.
