5 i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
It suggests to us this primitive energy of separation as the probable
source of such light and heat in suns and stars as we now know them.
It posits for us our own planet as an orb gathered in from the origi-
nal cloud-mass, with outer surface cooled and corrugated, and with
two great envelopes, atmospheric and oceanic, gaseous and liquid, still
floating or precipitated around its denser core. It teaches us how the
hard crust of the hot central mass has been uplifted here into elevated
table-land or depressed there into hollow ocean-bed. By the aid of its
newest instrument, meteorology, it lets us see how incident solar energy,
raising clouds and causing rainfall, with its attendant phenomena
of drainage and rivers, has carved and denuded the upheaved masses
into infinite variety of hill and valley. It shows us how sediment, thus
gathered by streams on the bed of the sea, is pushed up once more
by volcanic power or lateral pressure into Alpine chains and massive
continents, and how these in their turn have been worn down by the
long-continued bombardment of aqueous or aerial action into mere
stumps or relics of their primitive magnitude. It puts before us life
as an ultimate result of solar energy falling on the watery and gaseous
shell of such a solidified planet. It suggests to us how light, acting
chemically on the leaves or fronds or cells of the green herb, stores
up in them carbohydrates, rich in potential energy, which animals after-
ward use up as food, or man utilizes as coal in his grates and his
locomotives. It exhibits to us the animal organism as essentially a
food-engine in whose recesses solar energy, stored as potential by the
plant, is once more let loose by slow combustion in the kinetic form
as heat and motion. It enables us to regard the body as a machine
in which stomach and lungs stand for furnace and boiler, the muscles
for cylinder, piston, and wheels, and the nervous system for an auto-
matic valve-gear. It traces for us from small beginnings the gradual
growth of limb and organ, of flower, fruit, and seed, of sense and in-
tellect. With the simple key of survival of the fittest it unlocks for
us the secret of organic diversity and universal adaptation. It recon-
structs for us from obscure half-hints the origin of man ; the earliest
stages of human history ; the rise of speech, of arts, of societies, of
religion. It unifies and organizes all our concepts of the whole con-
sistent system of Nature, and sets before our eyes the comprehensive
and glorious idea of a cosmos which is one and the same throughout,
in sun and star and world and atom, in light and heat and life and
mechanism, in herb and tree and man and animal, in body, soul, and
spirit, mind and matter. Almost all that is most vital and essential
in this conception of our illimitable dwelling-place, the last half-cent-
ury has built up for us unaided. Fortnightly Hevlew.
