o
THE METAL ART OF ANCIENT MEXICO. 519
THE METAL ART OF ANCIENT MEXICO.
By HENRY L. REYNOLDS, Jr.
F the contemporary writers of the conquest of ancient Mexico
there are but three who have told us that there were in that city
not only objects of gold, silver, and copper, but also some of bronze
and tin. They have, moreover, told us that some of these metals were
most skillfully wrought, and that the designs fashioned therefrom were
so marvelous and beautiful that even the European goldsmiths of those
days could not excel them.
However true this may be, it should be remarked that there is
neither in the museums of this country, Spain, nor Mexico a single
representative relic of this advanced skill in metal-working. All the
Mexican specimens of unquestionable pre-Columbian origin that we
have are of pure copper, and are simply hammered into shape. There
are a few of bronze, but these, as well as some of copper, can not be
said to antedate the conquest.
M. Guillaume Dupaix, who was employed by the King of Spain in
1805 to explore Mexico in search of remains of Aztec art, is the first to
tell us anything about Mexican metal relics. Though an endeavor is
evident throughout his notes to strengthen the belief in the greatness of
Aztec civilization, the only metal specimens that he describes are three
of what he calls red copper. His annotator, Lenoir, referring to
these metal specimens, properly adds that this red copper is native,
whereas the yellow copper is the result of an alloy which the Mexicans,
it appears, did not use. *
The twelve Mexican axes collected by Dr. Palmer, Mr. Frederick
Ober, Prof essor Agassiz, and Mr. L. H. Ayme, seven of which are in the
Peabody Museum at Cambridge, and the two in the National Museum
at Washington, are all of pure copper ; and Professor F. W. Putnam,
who had the privilege of examining the former, tells us that there is
no doubt that they were all shaped by hammering. This is also true
of those in the National Museum.
These axes are of but two types, and it is gratifying to see that
they correspond to the two forms figured in the ancient paintings.
We might, therefore, reasonably deduce from this the fact that those
figured axes were of a like composition to these that survive, and also
that they were wrought with the hammer. To further sustain this
conclusion, Landa gives, in his Cosas de Yucatan, a cut of a Yuca-
tan axe which also corresponds in shape to those just mentioned.
These, he says, are made of a certain metal, and shaped by hammer-
ing the edge with stones. Now, upon the authority of Cogolludo,f we
know that these hammered axes of Yucatan were made in Mexico, and
* Antiquites Mexicaines, deuxieme partie, Planche II.
f Historia de Yucatan, lib. lv, cap. iii.
