THE METAL ART OF ANCIENT MEXICO. 521
we do not know. They also are of copper, but a close examination
shows them to be unmistakably of drawn wire, the manufacture of
which it is not pretended the pre-Columbian native knew. These
specimens consist each of a single piece of wire, averaging four inches
in length, and are flattened or beveled at both ends.
Besides the above specimens, this collection comprises two needles
of copper, two objects of twisted copper wire, nine little bells, and two
bronze chisels.
The two needles, like the specimens last described, are of drawn
copper wire, and are so called because in one end tbere is an eye, while
the other is slightly pointed.
The two twisted wire specimens consist of four pieces of very fine
copper wire, six inches long, and neatly twisted about one another.
The purpose they served is a matter of speculation.
Four of the little bells in this collection appear to be alloyed, but
are we warranted, in the absence of knowledge as to where and how
they were obtained, in ascribing them to pre-Cortesian art ? They
bear no evidences of oxidation to indicate great age, and I am disposed
to regard them as the bells of which Sahagun speaks in the following
quotation : The goldsmith is an expert in the selection of good
metal. He knows how to make of it whatever he likes, and does it
with skill and elegance. He is conversant -with all kinds of devices,
and all this he does with composure and accuracy. He knows how to
purify the ore and make plates of silver as well as of gold from the
cast metal. He knows likewise how to make molds of carbon, and
how to put the metal into the fire in order to smelt it. Farther on
he says : He who is a trader in needles casts, cleans, and polishes
them well ; he makes also bells, filters, punches, nails, axes, hatchets,
coopers adzes, and chisels. *
No one will pretend that Sahagun here refers to the metal-smiths
as they worked before the conquest. For thirty years he lived among
the surviving natives, to study their language and record all that he
could concerning their customs, mythology, and arts. He gives, when-
ever it is obtained, all hearsay testimony as to the civilization which
the Spaniards destroyed, but the bulk of his work, excepting the
twelfth book, which is devoted to a history of the conquest, is the
result of a study of the natives as he found them. This is evident in
this case from the fact that he enumerates molds of carbon, needles,
filters, coopers adzes, hatchets, and nails, none of which are mentioned
by the chroniclers of the conquest. Dr. Philipp Valentini, com-
menting upon this quotation, says, A few new features are cropping
out in this enumeration of implements, which give rise to the suspicion
that the goldsmith is described, not as he worked before the year
1521, but as he had perfected himself and enlarged his technical
knowledge through the intervention of Spanish mechanics in the year
* Historia de la Nueva Espafia, lib. x, cap. vii.
