526 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cure imperial pardon for his offenses, as well as sanction to continue
the conquest. Therefore, he pictured the El Dorado of which Span-
iards were wont to dream, whose wealth would fill the emperors de-
pleted treasury, and whose greatness would augment the power of his
realm. All that he saw and did was extravagantly colored in such
language and terminology as would magnify his adventures, and at
the same time picture the conquest of a country after the Spanish
ideal. Besides this, he tells how the people were idolaters and human
sacrificers ; how he overturned their false idols and set up crosses and
images of the Virgin in their stead ; and how, hy constant appeals to
them to embrace the religion of the Spaniards, it pleased God to make
him the means of converting many. Thus, by emphasizing his acts
as religious, and giving his expedition the color of a holy war, did he
also secure the necessary and powerful influence of the priests at court,
who, in those days of a jealous Inquisition, the Romish sovereign dare
not ignore.
These letters were dispatched by trusted messengers direct to his
Majesty in Spain, and, that their object might be the more surely ac-
complished, a quantity of virgin gold was sent with one of them, which
was either gathered from the Mexicans themselves or by the Spaniards
with native aid.
These considerations should influence our judgment as to the truth
of Cortess Aztec story. Even Mr. Hubert Bancroft says that he
was ever ready with a lie when it suited his purpose, and that he sees
in his letters calculated misstatements both direct and negative.
Dr. Robertson, too, though he accepts them as so much history, is
forced to confess that such and such a statement seems improbable.
Besides Cortes, however, both Gomora and Bernal Diaz speak of
bronze and tin, but it is only in the single instance when the mer-
chandise of the market-place is described. Gomora only enumerates the
metals, without describing the form in which they were used, and
Bernal Diazs words are, Thev had for sale bronze axes, copper, and
tin.
But Gomora, it should be remembered, was Cortess secretary and
chaplain, and, as Dr. Robertson says, he probably composed his work
at his masters dictation, we naturally expect him to repeat the latters
highly-colored and delusive account of Aztec art. If he obtained ver-
sions from other lips besides his masters, it was all doubtless recorded
in the manner the latter desired. Indeed, Las Casas asserts this most
positively, and in another place adds also the charge of downright
falsehood. Munoz and Robertson have rejected him as a reliable
authority, and even his contemporary, Bernal Diaz, has emphatically
accused him of adulation and inaccuracy.
But Bernal Diaz himself can not be believed, and in him we have
the last of the three authorities for aboriginal smelting. A reading of
his work alone would lead the educated mind of to-day to doubt the
