THE METAL ART OF ANCIENT MEXICO. 527
best part of what he describes. Though he denounces the figures of
Gomora as eight times too large, his own remain plainly extravagant :
for instance, the number and population of the valley cities which he
gives would be more than the natural conditions of the country could
support. One hundred and thirty-eight years after the conquest
Thomas Gage confessed himself sorely puzzled to account for the dis-
appearance of these cities as described ; and Mr. Lewis H. Morgan, in
his Houses and House-Life of the Aborigines, even rejects the idea
of their actual existence. Mr. Morgan, I might say, discredits these
three authors in nearly everything except the main acts of the Span-
iards, and these, he says, are all that can be accepted as historical,
while the descriptions of Indian society and government are im-
aginary and delusive.
I was glad to see that Mr. David A. Wells, in the April, 1886,
number of this magazine, took the same view. He says that the popu-
lar idea of the civilization of ancient Mexico has very little founda-
tion, and the fascinating narrations of Prescott as well as the Spanish
chronicles from which he drew his so-called historic data, are little
other than the merest romance, not much more worthy, in fact, of re-
spect and credence than the equally fascinating stories of Sindbad the
Sailor. And in defense of this conclusion he calls attention, among
other things, to the fact that the relics in the Museum of Mexico,
which are probably the best collection of the remains of the so-called
Aztec people that ever has been gathered, are very little better than
those from the Western mounds and some of the Indian tribes of the
United States.
Though it is a harder task to impeach the motives and work of
Bernal Diaz than those of Cortes and Gomora, we must nevertheless
consider that his original manuscript slumbered unpublished in private
hands for fifty years after his death, and then was printed for the first
time in Spain under a censorship decree by Alonzo Remon, a Fran-
ciscan priest. Brasseur de Bourbourg says he saw the original manu-
script in Guatemala ; and Scherzer, who also saw it there, informs us
that the text, as published, is very incorrect. Moreover, in Riva-
deneyras Historiadores Primitivos de Indias, torn, ii, we find that
the above edition of Padre Remon, first appeared in 1675 in Guatemala,
although it was printed in 1632 ! Thereupon, Senor Fuentes, a de-
scendant of Bernal Diaz, said that it contained in some parts more
and in others less than my great-grandfather wrote. He added, also,
that the title on the original cover, which the family have preserved
and kept in sight, is simply Ancianidad Manuscrito, and not His-
toria Verdadera de la Conquista de la Nueva Espana, por el Capitan
Bernal Diaz del Castilo, un de los Conquistadores. We learn also
from the above authority that the inaccuracy commences at the very
beginning of the narrative, for the opening words are not those given
in the printed edition.
