528 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Thus there is scarcely a doubt that, in the process of copying,
changes greater or less were made ; and, since the work had to receive
the sanction of the Inquisition, it is not unlikely that it was changed
to conform, in certain necessary and possible features, to the records
already licensed which emphasized the conquest as a triumph of the
Church. It is not unlikely, also, that by this time a better knowledge
of the conquered land and people had led many to doubt much that
Cortes and Gomora had described, and, though dead fifty years,
Bernal Diaz was thus brought forward as a convenient corroborative
authority.
In this connection it is not a little significant that Bernal Diaz is
an extremely zealous churchman, and that the expressions which he,
an unlearned soldier, uses, correspond almost precisely to those which
characterize the writings of the priests of that period. His narrative
is filled throughout with religious observations and considerable
emphasis is given to acts done in aid of the Church.
Moreover, we notice that he resents the imputations of Las Casas
of inhumanity and inaccuracy. This is especially noteworthy when
we consider that while at Guatemala in 15G0 he could not have known
what Las Casas had written, for the latters Historia General was
not completed when that author died in 15G1, and then his injunction
that no one should use it for forty years after his death must have
been strictly obeyed.
But whether the Remon edition of Bernal Diaz be a true copy or
not, we can not at any rate reconcile our knowledge of Mexican topog-
raphy and resources with much that he therein relates ; and as for
his elaborate particulars of Mexican art and civilization, they are so
plainly idealistic that our common sense forbids us to believe them.
Even Mr. Prescott contends that the more intimate our acquaintance
with his narrative the less is our confidence in the accuracy of his
details.
Besides Cortes and Bernal Diaz, however, there are two other
authorities who were eye-witnesses of Mexican art before the conquest.
These were the so-called Anonymous Conqueror and Andres de Tapia.
Both were Cortess captains, and both have left personal accounts of
what they saw, which Icazbalceta has recently taken from their ob-
scurity and published in his Coleccion de Documentos para la His-
toria de Mexico. The Anonymous Conqueror gives a full description
of Mexico, its country, resources, people, and customs, but, in his de-
tailed account of the Mexican market-place, its separate stalls and the
various articles on sale therein, there is no mention of any metal ex-
cept gold. Mr. Hubert Bancroft has properly said of this writer that
his method and language denote intelligence and inspire confidence.
Dealing wholly with native institutions he seems to have no desire as
is the case with some to magnify native strength and resources for the
sake of raising the estimate of the deeds of himself and comrades.
