THE METAL ART OF ANCIENT MEXICO. 529
His whole narrative bears the stamp of reliability, and the student
may easily from internal evidence and comparison deduct approximate
truth.
Andres de Tapia, on the other hand, describes the march against
Mexico as well as all that was seen and done upon its entry, and al-
though apparently a panegyrist of the conqueror, he is absolutely
silent concerning the elaborate silver presents which he is said to have
received. Neither does he testify to the bronze, lead, and tin of the
Mexican market. Our confidence in Cortes and Bernal Diaz, the other
two eye-witnesses, being impaired, these facts should be given no little
significance. There is one instance, however, in which Tapia men-
tions silver, and in this he says that Montezumas treasures of gold,
silver, and greenstones, of not very fine quality, were shown to him-
self and another Spaniard in the Casa de las Aves, or the House of
the Birds.
Another contemporary writer who is of unquestionable authority
is Bernadino de Sahagun. Pie was a Franciscan priest, and came to
Mexico eight years after the conquest. He studied the native tongue,
and became more proficient in it than any other Spaniard. He studied
also the motives, lives, and thoughts of the natives and got from them
their hieroglyphics which he expressed in the Roman character. His
work is composed from the evidence in large part of Aztec eye-wit-
nesses, and these are mingled, though somewhat confusedly, with
recollections from old Spanish soldiers. He gives considerable space
to the arts of the natives and their manner of w T ork, and though he
speaks of their work in gold, and this as performed with the hammer,
he fails to furnish any information in regard to silver, bronze, and tin.
Now, if the ancient Mexicans separated tin from its ore and knew
how to fuse it with copper to make bronze, it must certainly be con-
sidered strange that Sahagun so soon after the conquest neither saw
a relic thereof, nor obtained from the surviving Aztecs any account of
their skill in this regard. Sahagun, moreover, in his twelfth book,
gives a full description of the conquest. Herein he describes in detail
the presents of gold, feathers, etc., which Montezuma made at dif-
ferent times to Cortes, but he is careful to omit all mention of any of
silver. Not a word about that wonderful silver disk that represented
the moon, neither any mention of what we deem still more wonderful,
namely, that lead, tin, and bronze were seen on sale in the market-
place of the conquered city. He would indeed be remiss in his duty
as an historian should he omit all mention of a feature so singular and
important were he confident that it was true. All that he has to nar-
rate, concerning the metals that the Spaniaids saw in Mexico, is that
Montezuma showed them a hall where were stored bright feathers,
and many rich trinkets of plumes, gold, and stones, and then when
the Spaniards expressed their desire to see the contents of his private
chamber, which was called Totocalco, or the House of the Birds,
vol. xxxi. 34
