53 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
they saw therein many trinkets of gold and silver, all of which they
took away.
These facts demand particular attention when it is known that this
account of the expedition was composed upon the evidence of surviv-
ing natives, and the recollections of disinterested soldiers.
We desire to refer in this connection to the fact that Sahaguns
vague and only mention of silver, namely, that it was seen with gold,
feathers, and stones in Montezumas private chamber, called Totocalco,
or the House of the Birds, is also the only one of which the eye-wit-
ness Tapia speaks. The latter frankly says that trinkets of gold,
silver, and greenstones of not very fine quality, were shown to him-
self and another Spaniard in the House of the Birds (Casa de las
Aves).
These two sober accounts can not be impeached. They are the
testimony of eye-witnesses who had no thoughts of how their stories
could secure the censors license. The one innocently confirms the
other, and we are forced to accept them as giving us an honest, truth-
ful picture of just what metals the Spaniards actually saw.
Thus we have presented everything upon which the historic view of
our subject can properly and authoritatively rest. We can not, how-
ever, conscientiously believe the best part of the somewhat idealized
stories of Cortes and Bernal Diaz, for we have seen how Cortess letters
were influenced by his ambition, and why the printed edition of Diaz
can not be accepted as a verbatim copy of his original manuscript.
Besides this, not only do the natural conditions of the country refute
many of their statements, but, strange to say, nowhere in all our
archaeologic archives is there to be found a single relic of the wealth
and elaborate conveniences that they describe. We accordingly feel
warranted in discrediting this much of what they say, namely, that
Diaz once saw for sale axes of bronze, and Cortes trinkets of lead,
bronze, and tin, in Mexico, and tin coins among the natives of Tasco.
A careful examination, both of the ancient pictures and the early
chronicles, does not develop the fact that copper, much less bronze,
was ever employed by the natives in implements of war. Scarcely
anything either is said concerning metal tools. Diaz is the only man
who is said to have seen some, and these were axes only, but neither
he nor any one else saw one in actual use. These facts can not be
reconciled with the idea that they worked so extensively as to have,
as Baron Humboldt says, galleries and shafts, and that they smelted
the ore, and alloyed the refined metal to make bronze.
We are not surprised when the records tell us of so much gold,
nor even of silver in Mexico, but we would be if they contained any-
thing that spoke of an extensive use of copper, for we know that na-
tive copper in Mexico is found only in a very limited degree. This
native copper, with perhaps some that came from Lake Superior,
through an extensive traffic, was doubtless all that they possessed.
