THE METAL ART OF ANCIENT MEXICO.
531
It may be asked, however, how came their temples, and such works
as the so-called Calendar Stone, for instance, so exquisitely carved, if
they knew not the use of bronze ? As for their temples, Mr. Norman
has told us that most of them are composed of a fine concrete lime-
stone, in the carving of which flint was undoubtedly used. Only
implements of flint, obsidian, and other stones, and copper have been
found among these ruins, and this fact rather encourages the belief that
the natives carved these stones when first taken from the quarry, in
their soft condition, with tools of this description, the rock afterward
becoming hard on exposure to the air. Herrera, speaking of the dis-
tricts of Yucatan, distinctly tells us that in all of them there were
so many and such stately stone buildings, that it was amazing, and the
greatest wonder is that, having no use of any metal, they were able to
raise such structures. Landa, too, who was a contemporary of the
conquest, adds his testimony by saying that there exist many beau-
tiful structures of masonry in Yucatan, all of them built of stone, and
showing the finest workmanship, the most astonishing that ever were
discovered in the Indies, and we can not wonder at it enough, because
there is not any class of metal in this country by which such works
could be accomplished.
The so-called Calendar and Sacrificial Stones unearthed in the
city of Mexico, and most of their idols, are made from large blocks of
basalt, and to dress or carve this very hard volcanic material with a
bronze chisel, however well it may be tempered, is impossible. A
process of grinding and rubbing, which archaeologists have now dem-
onstrated to be extremely practicable, and in which the Mexicans, as
in other things, became more expert than their northern brethren, was
doubtless the only means employed.
The remains of native work in bas relief are now known to be very
numerous, but neither among the ruins of Palenque, Uxmal, Copan,
Chichen, nor Mitla can there be found a single metal tool. Had these
extensive works been fashioned with bronze implements, far more
specimens than the paltry three that we have would have come to
light ere now, within the broad area in which they are embraced.
President Barnard reviews the subject of elective studies in his annual
report of Columbia College. He thinks that during the growing period of the
mind the studies should be prescribed, for discipline, and to discover the bent^f
the mind. They should, at the same time, be so varied as to offer every fac-
ulty of the mind an equal inducement for exertion. The preference will then
be free to manifest itself. The time for introducing the elective element should
be fixed, then, rather with reference to maturity of years than to the degree of
advancement in the four years round of college study. This, with the average
of college students, appears to be attained in the nineteenth or twentieth year ;
an age which corresponds, in most students, nearly with the end of the sopho-
more year.
