SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 45
flames, the last vestiges of that which was a man. We are touching
upon the epoch when history begins. Megaliths are no longer raised
in Europe. They remained for a long time an unimportant memorial
of barbarous populations ; and it is only in our days that they have
been restored to their true place in the history of art and of human
progress. Translated for the Popular Science Monthly from La
Nature.
SOCIAL SUSTENANCE.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND DEFINITIONS.
By HENRY J. PIIILPOTT.
THE study of the relation of organized society to individual suste-
nance may, for brevity, be called the science of social sustenance.
This means practically the same as the term political economy in its
original significance. Economy means housekeeping or husbandry, or
making a living. Political economy is housekeeping as affected by
social and political conditions. The word sustenance means mak-
ing a living, with or without a house or home, and with all that the
term living implies when used in that way. Making a living is not
merely keeping body and soul together. It is supplying all the physi-
cal, moral, and mental wants, in so far as conscious, irksome effort is
required to supply them. What is a living to one man is not to an-
other ; but the man who makes his own living is always called self-
sustaining. Sustenance, therefore, is the making any kind of a living.
Social sustenance is making a living as affected by social conditions.
Social conditions are the conditions brought about by the existence and
conduct of other people. Exactly what social sustenance means, then,
is making a living as affected by the existence and conduct of other
people.
The study of political economy begins the moment we try to think
how our making a living is affected by other people. The infinite mul-
titude of ways in which this happens may well discourage us. But we
do not have to understand all of them, nor even know all of them.
We have to classify them rudely at first, and afterward as fully as
we can. The most general classification of the ways in which others
affect our ability to make a living is this : 1. They may hinder us in it.
2. They may help us in it.
So it is all a question of the help and hindrance others give us in
making a living. If this division into help and hindrance seems trivial,
it only seems so, for it is not. It has to be kept in mind all the way
through our study. A policy which is boasted of as enabling us to
increase our mutual helpfulness, as socialism, for instance, may or it
may not increase our tendency to hinder each other. If we wish to
reach a right conclusion we have always to ask whether the added
