532 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CHANGES IN THE ASPECT OF MARS.
Bt STANISLAUS MEUNIEE.
THE planet Mars has for a long time signalized itself to observers
by the remarkable traits of its constitution. In consequence of
its relative nearness, the telescope has been able to furnish us with a
number of data respecting its physical geography and its meteorology ;
and it has been a very rich source of results concerning the philosophy
of the solar system and the physical universe in general.
It is well known that Mars displays some bright spots, and others
dark, of which we have every reason to consider the former to be con-
tinents, the latter seas. Toward the poles appear large white zones,
varying in size at different times, which are caps of ice, susceptible
of occasional breakings-up like our icebergs. In the thin and trans-
parent atmosphere we can distinguish clouds, currents, and sometimes
whirlwinds quite like the cyclones that rage among us.
Besides these intimate analogies with the earth, the study of Mars
reveals especial features, some of which are most satisfactorily ex-
plained by considerations of comparative geology. With the tenuity
of the atmosphere is associated a much smaller extension of the seas,
and the relative repartition of land and water is very different from
what prevails on the earth. Astronomers observe, as one of the most
remarkable peculiarities of the surface of this planetary neighbor of
ours, a large number of long and narrow passages and seas like bottle-
necks. In our globe the oceans are of three times the surface of the
continents ; and Europe, Asia, and Africa form together a single isl-
and, while another island is formed by the union of the two Ameiicas.
But, on Mars, an almost complete equality exists between the surfaces
occupied by the continents and by the seas. Further, they are mingled
with one another in such a complicated manner that a traveler might
visit nearly all the quarters of the planet, either by land or by boat,
without having to leave the element on which he began his journey.
This much assumed, it should be recollected that Mars is older in
the planetary series than the earth ; that is, having been individualized
at a more ancient period, and having a smaller volume, it has reached
a more advanced stage in the sidereal evolution. Hence the planet
represents now, in its great lines and independent of its individual
characteristics, a condition which the earth will ultimately attain.
One of the effects of the secular cooling of the earth is to determine
the progressive absorption of the waters of the ocean by the successive-
ly consolidated rocky masses. Hence a striking comparison might be
made between the present Martial seas and the terrestrial oceans after
we shall have supposed they have been in a more or less great part
absorbed. The results of innumerable soundings have permitted the
