CHANGES IN THE ASPECT OF MARS. 533
construction of bathymetric charts of our oceans ; and thirteen years
ago I described the form of the Atlantic Ocean at four thousand me-
tres below the present surface as bottle-necked. If, then, we suppose
the water of the Atlantic to become absorbed in the profound masses
at this moment in process of solidification, in such a way that the level
of that ocean shall be depressed by four thousand metres, we shall
have at the same time a much smaller surface covered by water, and
a narrow and elongated form of the seas, or exactly the conditions which
Mars presents. At the same time that the water is thus drunken up,
the air also will be undergoing absorption. All the rocks are aerated.
We know what trouble we have in driving the air from even the most
compact rock of which we wish to obtain the density with precision.
Since the different mineral masses become aerated while they are
becoming moist, and consequently, while they are cooling, the atmos-
pheric strata should undergo a progressive decrease. It is, therefore,
natural that the atmosphere of Mars should be much thinner than that
of the earth ; and that is an excellent condition for the telescopic study
of the planet.
For the earth, geology furnishes a kind of indirect confirmation of
this progressing absorption of the atmosphere. The results of the
experiments of physicists, of Mr. Tyndall in particular, go to show
that a slight augmentation in the thickness of our atmosphere or in
the proportion of vapor it contains, would suffice to cause the solar
heat to be stored in larger quantity and wasted more slowly ; that is,
in short, would make what we call climates disappear a warm and
nearly equable temperature prevailing over all the earth. Now, one
of the most remarkable characteristics of the ancient geological periods
is just this absence of climate, which is indicated by the uniformity of
fauna and flora over the whole planet ; and this confirms our opinion
that the atmosphere once formed a much thicker bed than it does
now.
While there thus exist traits in common between Mars and the
earth, a strange motive of interest lies in the existence on the surface
of the former globe of very important details of structure which are
without analogy with us. M. Schiaparelli first perceived, in 1877,
in the continents of Mars, which had been till then very large and
without solution of continuity, a system of dark channels, often very
slender, which divided the surface into a multitude of lands isolated
and separated from one another like the meshes of a net. Notwith-
standing the tenuity of these channels, they are not less than one hun-
dred and twenty kilometres in breadth, while some of them are fully
forty-eight hundred kilometres long.* These results were at first re-
ceived with incredulity by astronomers, who were afterward, however,
constrained to recognize their rigorous exactness. The works of the
distinguished director of the observatory at Milan upon this subject, of
which the last one, relative to the opposition of 1879-80, constitutes a
