EDUCATIONAL ENDOWMENTS. 535
EDUCATIONAL ENDOWMENTS.
By CHARLES S. ASHLEY.
THERE is so much sound philosophy on the present subject in a
story related by that genial publication, the Arkansaw Trav-
eler, that we may be excused in departing from the severe dignity
proper to a sociological essay in repeating it. It seems that down in
Arkansaw there lives an old man named Billson, together with his son
Dan, who is a close student. Billson was naturally proud of his son,
and allowed the young man to remain in his room, deeply covered with
the grand rubbish of ancient wisdom. During the busy season, when
every hoe in the garden-patch was worth its weight in silver, Billsons
neighbors would ask :
Why dont you make Dan help you with your cotton ?
He cant spare the time from his studies.
Studying is all well enough ; but, do you think it would hurt
him much to drop his books for a day or two, and take up a hoe ?
The grass is gaining on you.
The old man sighed and seriously reflected for many days. One
morning he reverentially entered his sons room. Pointing to an open
volume that lay on the young mans desk, he asked :
What book is that ?
Platos Philosophy.
Full of interestin readin, I reckon.
As grand thought as was ever expressed.
Aint law, is it ?
Oh, no, its philosophy.
Yes, but what is philosophy ?
O er well, its er its the soul of great men shaped into
words. *
Ah, hah ! What does this here fellow Plato propose to larn you ?
To be great, to look high.
Yes, but does he tell you what to look at ?
O er yes, he that is, he tells you to purify your soul.
Ah, hah ! But what does he tell you to do with the body ?
The body ! Why, he scorns the body.
Ah ! Dont appear to have much use for it, eh ?
He is higher than all things physical.
Sorter silent on cotton, too, I reckon ?
Why, father, what can you mean ?
Wal, Ill tell you. Aint got nothin agin Ponto
* I pause to remark that I have known many a young person who, like Dan, was
studying philosophy, and whose idea of the same was about as precise and intelligent as
the above definition.
