53 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Plato, the student suggested.
Yes. I aint got nothin agin him, you understand, and reckon
he may be a pretty clever fellow ; but Ill tell you whats a fact. lie
aint worth his salt when the grass is in the cotton ; so, Dan, jus grab
that hoe hangin in the tree out there, and scorn the grass, and lam
the cotton to look up.
Great goodness ! the affrighted young man exclaimed, I cant
stand it out there !
Oh, but you mustnt pay no attention to the body. The sun
wont hurt your soul. Come on, or your grub stops.
The young man sighed, and like the scriptural personage, arose
and followed his father. Two hours later a panting and perspiring
Platonist wielding a heavy hoe was seen striking at the fox-tail grass.
This story illustrates the superstition and ignorance which have
characterized the great mass of mankind regarding educational matters.
It is a fact at this day that the vast majority of pupils in attendance
at our colleges do not know what they want. It is also a fact that
the parents who send them do not know what value their children are
to get for the sacrifice made. They have a vague idea that their chil-
dren are to be educated, and are accordingly to take their place
among the first of the land. This simple conception is carefully
coddled at commencements, where the public are congratulated on
the fact that they are to be taken under the protecting wing of the
educated (i. e., the college-bred) man. The common people are
elegantly assured that they will be supremely blessed, in some myste-
rious and unspecified manner, by the presence of educated men
among them ; while at the same time it appears that the educated
man will have a very nice and agreeable job in taking care of the
public. And the amazing superstition that a study of books (and
those, too, almost irrespective of the wants of either pupil or public)
is education, persists in defiance of all sense and experience.
The same simple faith appears in the making of charitable bequests.
No statistics regarding educational endowments are afforded by the
census, nor are any at hand, hence the subject can not be presented in
its full aspect. But we know that endowments are daily announced in
the newspapers. Young men and women are to be hired to study the-
ology by means of fellowships, to look at the stars, to study the lan-
guages, and the sciences, or whatever the whim of the benefactor
happens to be. The climax is reached when, as was lately announced
in the London Times, an immense sum is set aside from the ordi-
nary course of business to aid young men in becoming civil engineers.
That education, if valuable, should be paid for like everything else of
value ; that it should stand on the same footing as all other things, and
that its value is best secured by its ability to appeal to the spontaneous
desires of the public, and to win its financial support precisely as Booth
or Patti or Theodore Thomas win their support that is to say, by re-
