EDUCATIONAL ENDOWMENTS. 537
ceiving value for value given seems to be a conception which, though
it has reached many people in a confused way, has not yet penetrated
educational circles. These, like the clergy in former times, imagine
themselves independent of the rules governing other men in the struggle
for existence, and demand support as a caste, independently of the
quality of the individual service rendered, or the amount of demand
for it. This is the attitude of college men as a body. They have not
yet accommodated themselves to the new age, which recognizes no
privilege. And this feeling likewise governs the law, which still per-
mits men to set up perpetuities, and control the administration of
wealth years after they are in their graves, and after a society of which
they had no idea has arisen.
The explanation is not as simple as the fact is plain. It is that
with the advance of the United States to the position of the wealthiest
nation of the earth, the wealthy and fashionable classes have naturally
reverted to European standards in education and fashion, and thus
a collegiate system which once fulfilled a real need in Europe, has
been transplanted into our own uncongenial soil. For it is true that
even the churning of Latin and Greek into unwilling minds once
had its use ; as is also true of slavery, of the feudal system, of church
establishments, and of all other things. That use consisted in the
social discipline involved in the creation of a class united by common
interests and ideas which could assist the ecclesiastics and the police
in restraining the barbaric vulgar. When modern educational insti-
tutions were founded the great necessity of society was the repression
of lawlessness, of private war, and of all the elements making for
social disorganization. Under the supreme instinct of self-preservation
every nation in Europe put forth vast institutions to uphold order
and some semblance of law. The feudal system, ecclesiastical power,
monarchy, and education, were the chief engines evolved for this pur-
pose. In turn, or at the same time, they fulfilled the need which pro-
duced them ; and since then they have each slowly declined and are
rapidly being forced to adapt themselves to the changed condition of
mankind. But every institution retains the instincts which gave it
birth ; the tendency of every structure is to persist in that mode of
activity with which it starts. So we find the aristocracy of England
still willin, like Barkis, to take care of the people, in spite of the un-
grateful and altogether improper ridicule of men like Mr. Labou-
chere ; and the late book of Mr. Mallock, The Old Order changes, is
extremely interesting and instructive, both as the latest expression of
this pleasing willingness and in the ferocity with which it treats those
who object to being taken care of.* So with ecclesiastical systems,
in their decline as an autocratic caste, the same medisoval instincts show
* Of Japhet Snapper (a caricature of a leading radical politician) he says, his de-
sire to abolish the aristocracy is only a fermentation of his desire to lick their shoes.
This is pleasant.
