53 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
themselves ; and the same resistance to changed conditions appear.
In Escotts England is an idealized picture of the typical rector, in
which the good mans heroic labors are pathetically set forth in such
strains that one is reduced to absolute wonder that men like John
Bright can be so perverse as to advocate disestablishment ; though
indeed he might be excused on the ground that the clergy must be
prevented from altogether sacrificing themselves on the altar of their
country.* And in America a like fact appears in the military and
naval service. If the naval officers could have their way, we would at
once begin to discount the nations of Europe in building ruinous en-
gines for killing our fellow-Christians ; and the soldiers would likewise
have an enormous standing army perpetually fighting the air on dress-
parade. And now, to come to the immediate subject in hand, the
same truth holds with regard to education. The European system
was introduced into this country, and, though it has been forced to
change very extensively, it has held its ground with wonderful te-
nacity. The primal distinction from one which would naturally grow
up here is not in the subjects offered for study but in the method of
maintenance. The European system assumes that people do not
know what they need, and that it must be offered to them gratis. In
America we recognize the contrary to be true in nearly all the con-
cerns of life in religious establishments, in the militia, and latterly
in most college curricula.
In this paper I propose to pass in review the operation of educa-
tional endowments both past and present. Having admitted that the
artificial support of education had at one time its social justification,
we shall confine ourselves to the inquiry, Have endowments been pro-
ductive of the progress of knowledge and sound education from the
individual standpoint? For it will scarcely be pretended that in
these days this mode of education is a necessary means of preserving
order. That end is now subserved by commerce and the vast inter-
dependence which complicated and specialized systems of production
and exchange involve. The province of education in our day has
become narrowed like all others, and speaking, of course, of higher
education is now simply the bestowal of needed knowledge. We
shall address ourselves to the inquiry as to whether endowments are
a suitable means for the diffusion of knowledge by a brief examination
of the history of the English schools and universities, and by a short
study of their present operation in this country.
The history of Oxford is deeply involved with that of the general
mass of British society. It is first known as poor and democratic.
In the early part of the fourteenth century it is said that as many as
* The Archbishop of Canterbury, for example, sacrifices himself to the extent of
taking a salary of $75,000 a year. Every one must feel sorry for the archbishop; espe-
cially when it is considered that he has to live in a palace rent free and to endure the
terrific labor of crowning kings and the like.
