EDUCATIONAL ENDOWMENTS. 539
thirty thousand students were in attendance ; and Huber, the learned
historian of the universities, says that the intellectual importance of
Oxford at that period is universally acknowledged. At this time the
university had none but rented buildings, and little or no land. En-
dowments did not exist, and every teacher was left to find his own
level. The Church and the government now attained a more efficient
organization, however, and laid hands upon the universities. The
means by which the university became a stepping-stone to the Church
and an appendage to the government are not very clear. Monasteries
and endowments encouraged the cultivation of such learning as the
ecclesiastics considered genuine. The Church and the government
gradually acquired intimate and stable relations ; and the end of the
process was that Oxford, and Cambridge as well, became aristocratic
institutions, whose aims and ideas were those of the ruling classes, and
whose characters became sociological or political rather than educa-
tional. Huber * has the following remarkable passage on this point :
After attaining its greatest external privileges a new process com-
menced in the university. The number of students diminished but
endowments kept increasing, and of course democracy waned rapidly.
. . . The university became gradually more dependent on fixed posses-
sions and assumed a new impress. It was of course more aristocratic ;
and did not wholly escape the deadening influence of worldly goods.
Surprising as it may seem, Oxford seems never since to have at-
tained any considerable importance intellectually. From the writings
of a contemporary, we learn that the gownsmen became swollen in
mind and indifferent to learning. Gradually the university became
filled with the younger sons of the gentry, who went to the university
as the means of ecclesiastical preferment. It is unnecessary to rehearse
the facts here summed up ; I do not know that they are seriously dis-
puted. Politically, it is well known that the universities have been
millstones on the necks of the English people. No progress has been
made that they could prevent. Ever fawning on power, they have
made it their principal business to obtain pecuniary favors from the
government. In this they have been very successful. They early
acquired the sole right of presentation to ecclesiastical livings by
the bishops and others, and, according to Professor Thorold Rogers,
there would not remain one fifth of the present number of students
without this stimulus. Professor Newman, the translator of Huber,
states the effect of all this on Oxford in our own century. An arti-
ficial monopoly, he says, is given to a few accomplishments. . . .
And here I speak not of the (neglect of the) physical sciences and
mathematics the taste for all which in the University of Oxford has
in very recent years actually declined but, confining our view to the
circle of studies which constituted the original basis of the universities,
it is extraordinary to see the neglect and decay into which the majority
* History of the English Universities, vol. i, p. 76, English translation.
