54 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of them have fallen. ... I appeal to any Oxonian whether with the
exception of the Latin and Greek languages and a fair proportion of
the corresponding history there is any one of these subjects for which
Oxford is even a third-rate school. He goes on to relate that, when
he himself was in Oxford, the candidate for the degree of Doctor of
Divinity implied no theological learning whatever ; a candidate had
simply to read aloud an old composition lent him by the clerk it mat-
tered not what, so that it lasted an hour and this was his sufficient
scientific qualification. * Parliament has made various imbecile
attempts to improve the vast corruption which is in the universities the
fountain-head of the English Church, and the Salisbury government
have announced another. None of them has reached the seat of the
disease, which is the arbitrary bestowal of rewards and positions with-
out service rendered. Class interest has hitherto been too strong for
reform, just as it long was in upholding the practice of purchasing
commissions in the army ; and Oxford, with ludicrous pageant and
solemnity, continues to spend its income of above two million dollars
in repressing the progress and intellect of England.
It might be expected that the great schools of England Eton,
Rugby, Harrow, Westminster, and others of that class would display
like characteristics ; and, indeed, evidence on this point is sufficiently
abundant. In 18G1 public clamor induced Parliament to appoint a
commission to investigate these institutions, and it unearthed a mass
of corruption and absurd practices such as staggers belief. Here the
facts can only be briefly summarized. It was found that the revenues
of the institution were absorbed by those in control. Head-masters
received from twenty to thirty-five thousand dollars annually, besides
the right of presentation to numerous church livings, and the Fellows
contrived to appropriate most of what the head-masters left. There
was found to be an astonishing dearth of general culture among the
students : few newspapers were read, Shakespeare and Milton were
hardly known, and even Scott and Thackeray were too heavy for the
disciplined brains of most of the students. Science was an unknown
field. Music, geography, history, and drawing were likewise conspicu-
ous by their absence. One of the schools introduced mathematics as
late as 1845, and one graduate was found who did not know that there
was such a thing as the multiplication-table ! The same thing ap-
pears everywhere.
The quality of beer and mutton which supported the students in
their arduous intellectual labors was found to have been uniformly
bad through several generations ; the practice of giving bad beer and
bad mutton had ingrained itself into the noble British constitution,
and could not be changed. One of the provosts testified before the
committee that he objected to the teaching of science, because it is
scarcely seventy years old. English literature and composition were
* Introduction to Huber, pp. xxv-xxvii.
