46 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
hindrance does not overbalance the added help. If we ignore social
hindrances to individual well-being, we shall come out just where the
mechanical inventor does who ignores friction.
These hindrances arise in various ways. The very existence of our
fellow-beings, if in too large numbers, is a hindrance. We may de-
nounce Malthus as much as we like, but we can not deny the awful
consequences of world-crowding. Doubtless it has goaded on inventive
genius, and thus promoted mutual helpfulness ; but, like most social
causes which work remote good, it has worked also immediate evil,
and the bones of its pallid victims lie buried in the earth by countless
millions. Many writers have been troubled about the matter, and es-
pecially about the future it seems to promise. Others have succeeded
in convincing themselves that there is no danger, and that the denser
the population the happier the individual. The truth which they dis-
tort into this error is that the evil effects of world-crowding have been
partially offset, in some places more than offset, by new discoveries
which cheapened production. It was not always so, and may not
always be so. Certainly there are no more new continents to discover.
How many new substances, or new powers and uses of old ones, are
yet to discover, can not be guessed. But meantime world-crowding,
the natural increase of the human species, is going on, and is constantly
thrusting human beings into one anothers way. We might as well
face this truth as deny it, if we are going to study science. Our
shrinking from a truth because it is disagreeable, unfortunately does
not make it a whit less true. Up to a certain point, and it is a mov-
able point, increase of population is beneficial. There is a certain den-
sity of population which is more desirable than any other than any
greater or any less. This movable point of most desirable density of
population is moved constantly upward by the inventors who crowd
the Patent-Office, by the projectors of great enterprises, and by the
skillful organizers of industry ; as well as by the statesmen who simplify
and perfect the government, and the religious, moral, and economic
teachers who facilitate adjustment of the relations of crowding and
jostling human beings. As the bounds are thus extended, population
grows and fills them sometimes not quite, but alas ! sometimes it
quite outgrows them. Before any other explanation of the wretched
condition of a community is offered, this one of population should be
fully considered.
The grave question which each one asks himself as he gazes upon
his own offspring, and wonders what will be the condition of their
offspring some generations removed, is, Will this world-crowding re-
lieve itself by checking reproduction as well as by stimulating mutual
helpfulness ; or will the time come, and how soon, when the only pos-
sible object of economic study w T ill be to postpone the universal
poverty and starvation of the human race, rather than, as now, to
constantly better its condition ? If a satisfactory answer to this ques-
