EDUCATIONAL ENDOWMENTS. 543
structor, but no art can infuse life into the subject. It was perfectly-
easy to see that the class was deriving no mental pabulum from Lysias,
and that their minds were chiefly occupied with their chances of es-
caping a flunk. There may be considerable literary merit in Lysias,
but the class did not see it or care to look for it. They were exclusively
occupied with the difficulty of translation and grammatical construc-
tion, and the whole process, as compared with real education, struck me
as very like gum-chewing as compared with eating. The empty form
is gone through witb, but there is no nutrition. And even in the most
popular courses, like the seminary in English literature, the same
fact stands out in bold relief. The class study Mores Utopia, Spen-
sers Faerie Queen, and the like, Tennysons Princess being the
only masterpiece in the course, except Silas Marner, which has been
written in any recent time. When I visited the class, it was striving,
with very little success, to seem interested in Wordsworths Excur-
sion. There may have been one member of the class who really had
a spontaneous appreciation of the poem, but I do not believe there
were more. After visiting even the best institutions artificially sup-
ported on the European plan, we are forced to think of the profound
remark of Bagehot, that academies are asylums of the ideas and
tastes of the last age.
If the harm done by endowments consisted simply in a support of
old-fashioned methods and subjects in education, it would be bad
enough. But the trouble does not end there. There is a morbid, or
what President Cleveland would call a pernicious, activity about them.
What energy they have they use in actively obstructing the march of
ideas and of political freedom. Oxfords history in this respect is too
notorious to admit of further mention. Harvard, too, can tell her
story. She has her Memorial Hall now for her sons who fell in the
war of the rebellion ; but time was when Senator Sumner was con-
spicuously slighted by her, and when Wendell Phillips was tabooed.
Narrow sympathies, extending only to the prevailing power, have
characterized fair Harvard, as well as Oxford and the established
Church in England. This is not due to the individual characteristics
of the men who are for the time being in these institutions, but to a
general law obtaining among privileged castes and corporations. And
at this day, among the most prominent professors, we may find illus-
trations of this truth. It is not Oxford bishops alone who, from a class
instinct, are the perpetual barriers of progress and the ardent cham-
pions of all that we have nearly outgrown, whether in education, po-
litical economy, barbaric criminal codes, and indefensible wars ; in all
of which the records of Parliament throw a singularly unfavorable
light upon the English successors of the apostles, as may be seen in
their adherence to the old education, in their resistance to the reform
of the savage criminal code of England in the early part of this cent-
ury, in their well-nigh unanimous support of the corn laws, and in
