544 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
their equally united support of such wretched acts as the war on Egypt
and that in the Soudan. In our own country our endowed fellow-
citizens, the professorial socialists, are a corresponding class. It is the
instinct of self-preservation in privileged classes to cringe to power,
and to express its sentiments ; and when, as in our own day, powerful
organizations rise, and, exhibiting a great revulsion toward an ancient
form of social organization, seem likely to be in the ascendant, these
classes hasten to pay court to the brute force of ignorance and num-
bers, as in other countries they pay court to the majority of bayonets.
It matters not to them that social evolution is a continuous progress
toward individual property and rights. It matters not that the Eng-
lish race in England and America have, after centuries of struggle and
the sacrifice of countless heroic lives, secured individual immunity from
official tyranny. The unprecedented rapidity of our recent advance
has favored a reaction, and those last to follow in the wake of prog-
ress are the swiftest in retreat. But particular illustrations of this
fact are necessary. We might cite the astonishing article of Presi-
dent Seelye in The Forum, advocating in America the establishment
of a national church ! But we prefer to select the most prominent of
the professorial socialists, whose recent utterances on economic topics
are extremely interesting from our present point of view.
Mr. Richard T. Elys Introduction to the Labor Problem is ap-
parently a hastily written paper, and it might be unfair to subject it to
any close scrutiny, were it not for the confidence with which the most
startling statements are made, and the like carelessness exhibited in his
other writings. The following is one of the gems of thought found in
the place referred to : The idea of free governments is to stimulate
individual initiative and individual industry, but the consequence is
that a few clever or fortunate people often successful because more
unscrupulous than others restrict the activity of their fellows, and
effectually repress the freest expansion of the energies of the people.
In the first place, the idea of free governments is not to stimu-
late anybody or anything, but simply the removal of obstacles in the
way of activity, and the use of the word shows a fundamental mis-
conception. Passing this point, however, one might suppose from the
above that Russia and China, where Mr. Elys sociological ideas have
full sway, are better situated for a free expansion of the energies of
the people, whereas it need hardly be said that individual initiative
is freest and individual industry is most successful where governments
interfere least.*
The ethical duties and the holy privileges of a citizen of the re-
public must be enforced in season and out of season, further remarks
Mr. Ely. This luminous dictum is delivered without explanation ; and
* The fact that, since the absorption of the telegraph lines by the British Government,
all the improvements have come from America, whereas England had before furnished
her full share of them, is a striking illustration.
