EDUCATIONAL ENDOWMENTS. 545
perhaps it is just as well that none was attempted, for it is greatly to
be feared that none is possible. It is worth instancing, however, as ex-
hibiting the sanctimonious pomp and official carelessness of the au-
thors style of writing and thinking.
But our next quotation is more interesting still : Take compul-
sory education. The compulsion is a power which gradually lifts [a]
people above its own ethical plain (sic).
I confess that this last sentence reminded me of certain Canadian
rustics who were gulled into believing that a man could lift himself
into the air by pulling at his boot-straps. The parallelism is perfect,
and in each case the implied denial of the persistence of force seems
altogether naive and unconscious. This passage is especially worth
instancing, because it shows the weak point in all Mr. Elys social-
istic ideas. His constant assumption is, that governments can coerce
the people can expend force upon them without itself being sup-
plied with force by the people. The Government (if written with a
capital letter) can support the people, whether the people support
the Government or not. Now, everybody knows the fact to be, that
no machine requires so much pressure to keep it going as a gov-
ernment agency. Public clamor has to reach a very high key before
great measures are passed ; endless log-rolling has to be resorted to
before the best claim can be passed upon, or the bill most obviously
good be enacted. And probably it is fortunate that this is so, for oth-
erwise we should be even more inundated than at present with foolish
legislation. But the point for our present notice is, that our Legisla-
tures and executive agencies are inefficient machines requiring a vast
amount of power for a given product, and that, too, of poor quality.
This is not an accident, but is necessarily so. Legislative and execu-
tive bodies are unevolved in character, unspecialized by long disci-
pline for the work they have to do ; and this must continue to be so.
And Mr. Ely ignores the commonest facts of daily experience as well
as the highest generalization of science in the above quotation and in
his whole theory of society, so far as he can be said to have one.
Were it worth while, we might continue quotations of this charac-
ter ad nauseam. Let us remember, he says, in the same Introduc-
tion, that every hope of a permanent reform in industrial and social
life must be illusory unless it has a firm foundation in a lasting state
reformation. Let the reader observe the connotation of the terms
industrial and social. Does this mean that Congress is to give a
foundation (whatever that may signify) for every social and indus-
trial improvement ? Congress, which can not even manage the tariff
or the currency ? In Mr. Elys papers on railroads lately published in
Harpers, it appears that the State (with the big S) is to reform
that branch of industry. But discussion is useless. Mr. Elys ex-
pressions are so loose, and his papers ignore the commonest facts to
such an extent, that argument is impossible.
VOL. XXXI. 35
