54 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
We are, however, concerned with the sense or nonsense of the
ideas of President Seelye, Mr. Ely, and their coterie of professorial
socialists, only in a secondary degree. Our purpose is to show that
the old Oxford spirit is being bred again in this country through the
agency of highly-endowed educational institutions. Here, as always,
where artificial protection is afforded to incapacity and medievalism,
we find the old neglect of facts, the old servility to prejudice and
power, the same proneness toward the past, the same complacent care-
lessness and assurance of statement. Here, as ever, we find the old
protective tone, the old ecclesiastical air the old air of taking the
public under the writers wing. Had we space, numerous passages
might be cited showing the patronizing and wholly foreign way in
which the laboring-classes are regarded. And, of course, the same
class-spirit is shown, as it always has been, in the bearing toward classes
who are rising by their own unaided exertions to predominance (not,
of course, of the political kind else malign complexions would grow
smiling) in the country. And the resistance of the Oxford bishops to
Cobden and to Gladstone is singularly well paralleled by the jealousy
shown by our endowed professors toward the great railroad managers,
the great bankers and merchants and manufacturers, who are doing
more for the comfort and happiness of mankind than any equal num-
ber of individuals in the world. And The Nations remark (No.
1110), at the close of a review of one of Professor Elys books, that
Dr. Ely seems to us to be seriously out of place in a university chair,
was, while conceived in the right spirit, not literally true ; for such
men inevitably gravitate toward such positions.
Now, what is the rationale of the matter ? Why is it that specially-
protected classes acquire such a pronounced class instinct as is found
in English clergy, in state officials, and in endowed professors ? In
the first place, every agency has a tendency to persist in those activi-
ties and modes of thought in which it set out ; and when new agen-
cies spring out of old ones, the result is the same. Thus, through
educational institutions, the eighteenth century forces its ideas on the
nineteenth, Europe on America, and Harvard on California and Michi-
gan. Then there is the natural class jealousy, exhibited by all organ-
isms ; by France as against Germany, America as against England,
labor against capital, spiritualist against materialist, by every man
against a rival. And when endowments or state support render a
class totally distinct and altogether independent of those influences
which govern the rest of mankind, both causes work great effects.
The result is similar to the coagulation of the blood caused by tying
up a limb and preventing a free circulation within it. First there is
annoyance, and then the isolated part becomes the seat of a disturb-
ance which may threaten the life of the organism. I believe that any
person who observes the air, the social temper, which surrounds edu-
cational institutions, especially those richly endowed, will find the effect
