EDUCATIONAL ENDOWMENTS. 547
spoken of not only in the government and the corporate character of
the institution, but in the personal character of most of its officers.
Many, very many exceptions must be made to such a statement ; but,
in the end it must be acknowledged that that stamp of action known
as officialism leaves its mark upon the official ; and that the individual
as well as corporate influence of institutions thus artificially maintained,
and animated by a different spirit and principle from that elsewhere
prevailing in the body social, is hostile to the free movement, and
an obstacle to a continuous healthful readjustment of ideas in our
country.
Any general objection to the existing order of things inevitably
meets the query, What will you put in its place ? It is frequently
assumed, so strong is the conservative instinct in mankind, that the
objector, if he discovers or points out a disease, should also cure it.
This hardly seems just. Nature puts forward one set of agencies for
right criticism and another for right construction. Critics are seldom
artists, and artists are seldom critics. Still, it is not difficult, in the
present case, to give a more satisfactory answer. In the first place,
it may be said that the objections brought against the foregoing
are generally based on an overestimation of the function of academic
education, both in individual and national life. The learned Hu-
ber remarks that the revival of learning in the fifteenth century,
like the speculative movement of the twelfth century, was sus-
tained by the co-operation, not of institutions, but of individuals;
and this is also true, he says, without a doubt, of every intellectual
impulse which is animated by an independent principle of life. * This
fact is evident enough both historically and from the rationale of
all progress. I can not think of a single forward movement of society
which has not been obliged to overcome the opposition of great edu-
cational centers ; and hardly an eminent name occurs to me as having
been assisted in its high destiny by academic education.! Whether
in business, politics, or letters, the worlds leaders have not been sent
forth panoplied to conquer by their alma maters. It is with intel-
lectual as with other progress. New developments arise, not from
fixed types and structures, but by fresh movements from beneath ;
and the surface crust has always to be broken through before the new
experience can displace the old in consciousness, and the new force has
to break or bend the old structure in society before it can assume its
rightful place. This is so obviously and so universally and necessarily
true, that one may be surprised at the wide prevalence of the opposite
* Hubers History of English Universities, vol. i, p. 216.
f A few Englishmen in several classes may be instanced as either having no connec-
tion with universities, or as deriving no profit from them. Burke, Bentham, J. S. Mill,
Herbert Spencer, Davy, Faraday, Watt, the Stephensons, Lardner, Turner, Grote, Buckle,
George Eliot, Thackeray, Dickens. Gladstone has been fifty years in getting Oxford
out of him, and Grant Allen says that Darwin escaped with comparatively little injury.
