5+ 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
superstition. The surprise, however, will disappear on reflection. It
has its origin just where reverence for kings, priests, and popes has
its source in the supreme need of mankind in early times for agen-
cies maintaining social order and coherence.
This, however, is not a complete answer to the question, What is
the substitute for endowed schools ? But it renders the objection
much less forcible than it might otherwise be. But if, notwithstand-
ing the small share that institutions of learning really have in our
national life, it still be thought that greater provision for them is
necessary than commercial motives would lead to, it should probably
be said that the best method of support is by direct annual grant from
the state governments. Rough as is the relation thus established be-
tween a social structure and its function, it is clearly better than com-
plete irresponsibility. Observation of institutions where this system of
support is in vogue as, for example, the University of Michigan will,
I think, strengthen this view. But I do not think there is any evi-
dence whatever that education needs or can profit by artificial aid.
Our colleges can be supported as our churches are supported ; and,
under a free and active business competition, there is quite as much
reason to expect educational improvement as there is certainty of the
superiority of our free churches over state establishments. But col-
leges are really an insignificant factor in education. Commerce, travel,
newspapers, and books, spontaneously chosen, are the real educators.
Whether in general literature or special science, the public is being
served by periodicals printed for profit, and by voluntary societies of
vast efficiency ; and I think both newspapers and magazines might be
named as exerting a greater educational influence, both from a public
and from a personal point of view, than all the colleges in the country
put together. Still further, schools are everywhere springing up on a
business basis, because the most efficient men find they can make more
money in this way than by bending to the dead level of existing insti-
tutions. And, surprising as it may seem at first sight, some of these
schools might be named as not only giving better instruction, but as
giving it at a smaller cost to the pupil, than endowed colleges, or those
maintained by legislative grants. Business-colleges, lecture-bureaus,
circulating libraries, magnificent art-stores, are fast supplying public
wants, and would do so much more rapidly but for the prestige of the
established system. And the genius of commerce, which fills our land
with wonders despite foolish legislation and adverse public opinion,
will surely triumph, like the Cinderella of our childhood, over her
haughty sisters, who are vain rather of their age and status than of
their works.
With the instinct of self-preservation, colleges have lately been
adopting the elective system. The practical result of the elective
system is that only those studies are chosen which fill some want,
real or imaginary, and are offered by an agreeable professor. The
