EDUCATIONAL ENDOWMENTS. 549
final upshot is, then, that the students are made the supreme judges
instead of the faculty ; and that the professors are put on the natu-
ral competitive basis. And though their salaries are still paid by
the corporation, the commercial principle is really in vogue, and its
nominally becoming so is only a question of time. I remember a sig-
nificant incident which took place during the last year of my attend-
ance at the University of Michigan. It happened, accidentally, that
two students published somewhat severe criticisms on the teaching of
the professors in political economy and philosophy. Immediately
afterward one of the professors, a very agreeable gentleman of the
old school, educated in Germany, and a philosophical imperialist and
absolutist to the core, delivered his sentiments on the subject.
Amid the mingled cheers and hisses of his pupils, he attacked the
presumption of the critical students. It was evident that in his mind
things were going very badly. To him there was something wrong
about a universe in which young men were permitted to have different
opinions from their elders ; and it is hardly too much to say that he
was enraged. I could not help sympathizing with the vain struggles of
an order which is rapidly passing away under the inevitable law of
competition, and which, indeed, ought to pass away. And the resist-
ance of President McCosh to any concessions to liberalism is an in-
stinctive recognition of the fact that when they are once begun there
is no ending. There is no stopping-place, no compromise, between the
ancient system and that wherein every student chooses his studies and
his teachers, and pays therefor. The small wedge of option being
once introduced, there are incessant change and disturbance till this
natural equilibrium is reached. If any one institution possessed an
overpowering influence, its authority might check the advance for a
time, but the competition for public favor between the five or six
leading universities is so keen that each one is forced onward ; and
individuals, however conservative, and however many the degrees and
titles that trail after their names, are unable to prevent the rapid ad-
aptation of educational establishments to the demands of the public.
It has been the object of this paper to call attention to the facts
that great endowed institutions of learning have not been efficient in
the diffusion of knowledge, or as a means of intellectual progress ;
that, latterly, they have been useless and obstructive to the general
march of society toward improvement ; that the current system in
America is an importation from Europe, and bears a scant relation to
our requirements ; that our colleges resemble, in their retrogressive
characteristics and influences, their elder sisters in Europe ; that
their status in society is due rather to a superstition than to work per-
formed ; and that there is every reason to believe that educational
facilities offered on a purely commercial basis, to which the elective
system in the end inevitably comes, would be less costly to society
as a whole, perhaps even less costly to students, and far more satis-
