SKETCH OF PAUL GERVAIS. 551
an early period of his investigations to animals which had been some-
what neglected by naturalists, and the fruit of his studies among them
appeared in his work upon Myriapods and Fresh-Water Polypi.
In this work he defined accurately for the first time the characteristics
of the animals, and followed out some of the changes which are gone
through by certain of the species at various ages. In 1835 M. Gervais
was admitted as preparator into the laboratory of comparative anat-
omy of the Museum of Natural History, and a special direction was
given to his studies. Professor de Blainville was preparing a grand
work on the bony frame of living and fossil mammals; and the young
naturalist, exerting his whole effort in assisting his master, attached
himself with marked preference to researches on extinct species, of
which he had the satisfaction of describing definitely not a few that
had been hitherto unobserved or inadequately studied.
In 1841, according to Larousses Dictionnaire Universelle, after
having spent ten years in the Museum, according to M. Blanchard, M.
Gervais was called to the chair of Zoology in the Faculty of Sciences
at Montpellier, where he successfully continued his researches; and here
he prepared and published his great book on the living and fossil ver-
tebrates of France ( Zoologie et Paleontologie Francaises, 1841-52),
which was regarded as in continuation of Cuviers and Blainvilles
publications on the same subject. He became Dean of the I^aculty in
1856 ; was chosen correspondent of the Institute ; and, on the death
of Gratiolet, in 1865, became his successor as Professor of Anatomy,
Comparative Physiology, and Geology, in the Sorbonne. In 1868 he
became Professor of Comparative Anatomy in the Museum of Natural
History, returning as master to the laboratory in which his early
youth had been spent. In the collections of this institution he found
subjects of a most interesting character which were still awaiting an
historian ; and applying himself to the tasks thus pointed out to him,
he engaged in those researches which resulted in the publication of his
excellent work on the fossil mammalia of South America. The re-
mains of aquatic mammalia that lived in the ancient seas having been
exhumed in enormous quantities, M. Blanchard continues, a general
study of the Cetacece seemed to impose itself upon him as indispen-
sable to the progress of an essential part of zoology. M. Gervais un-
dertook this long and difficult study in co-operation with his friend
Professor Van Beneden, of the University of Louvain, and after sev-
eral years the fruit of their conjoint studies appeared as the Oste-
ography of Living and Fossil Cetaceans ( Osteographie des Cetaces
Vivants et Fossils ).
M. Stanislas Meunier has given, in La Nature, careful accounts
of M. Gervaiss principal writings, with estimates of their scope and
value. The Documents pour servir a la Monographic des Chirop-
teres Sud-Americains ( Documents in aid of the Monography of the
South-American Chiroptera? ) included descriptions of many species
