SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 47
tion is possible, it has not as yet been satisfactorily rendered. But
assuming the most dreaded answer to be the true one, we may still
work on just the same, content to know that the greater legacy of bet-
terment we leave them, the longer our children will be able to put off
their hard fate. And besides, even in this day, we, too, find ourselves
crowded out of work, or out of the market, by our needy fellow-beings,
and thus hindered in trying to make our living.
But in other ways our fellow-beings hinder and shorten our suste-
nance. Thev rob us on the highway, break and plunder our inclosures,
steal our purses. These are the simpler and ruder ways. They defraud
us in a thousand ways. They embezzle and default. They organize
gigantic schemes of plunder. And all these things necessitate laws,
and governments to make and execute them, which cost immense sums
of money. The Government of the United States alone costs nearly
or quite as much as the annual savings of the people ; though from
this must be deducted the school, post-office, and other similar expenses,
which would have to be paid privately if they were not paid publicly.
Still, allowing one half for these purposes, the cost of government
alone, to say nothing of the quarrels and crime which make it neces-
sary, would, if saved, constitute a third of our annual savings.
But not only do (1) the existence in excess, and (2) the consciously
perverse conduct of our fellow-beings hinder us in making a living ;
even when they do their best, the (3) awkwardness of those to whom
we must delegate work which we can not do, costs us dearly every
day. They bungle and blunder and delay us in an unlistable variety
of ways. Our awkwardness works them the same hindrance. In this
branch of the subject it would be tedious to enumerate, but fruitful
to sit and think.
On the whole it is hard to say whether in our sustenance of the full
measure of the life of our day we suffer most from the existence, or
from the wickedness, or from the awkwardness of the other human
beings who are trying to sustain life in the same planet, and have the
same right to it as we.
Fortunately, they also help us, marvelously help us, and it remains
to study how they help us. A more or less minute study of the ways
in which our fellow-beings help us in making a living or achieving a
sustenance, constitutes the main body of the science of political econ-
omy. Before entering on that study, it is well enough to inquire what
we wish the result of their help to be. It needs not to be said that we
are to help them as truly and if possible as fully as they do us. Keep-
ing this tacitly in mind, what kind of a sustenance do we wish them
to help us get ? We think at once of two features which must char-
acterize it : 1. We want it ample. 2. We want it easy.
In other words, we want as plenty as possible, and with as little
work as possible. It is not merely plenty to eat and wear that we
want, but in every other respect an ample living. Our tastes differ,
