552 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which were entirely new. This was followed by numerous accounts
of mammals, birds, and reptiles, which were largely inspired by the
study of the specimens which Alcide de Orbigny, Eydoux, Soleyet,
Castelnaud, and other travelers brought back from their long voyages.
The examination of the series of birds led him to general conclusions
respecting their natural division. These conclusions, drawn from the
character of the skeleton, and particularly of the sternum, have been
widely accepted. He interested himself in the study of the geo-
graphical distribution and classification of reptiles, in the course of
which he made various investigations upon the batrachians, particularly
the ealamanders and tritons. In connection with his researches in the
fishes, he was in charge for twenty years of the administrations ex-
periments in pisciculture in the department of Herault, the chief ob-
ject of which was to acclimatize the true salmon, species which were
not known to exist in any of the streams emptying into the Mediter-
ranean. In co-operation with M. Walckenaer, he prepared a Natural
History of Wingless Insects (Histoire naturelle des Insectes
apteres ).
M. Gervaiss first work in paleontology was the thesis which he
prepared for the degree of Doctor in Science, on fossil birds. In it he
demonstrated the existence, in the Tertiary period, of birds belonging
to several genera common in the present age. Cuvier had proceeded
in this line of investigation hardly further than to give approximately
the order, and in only a few cases the possible genus to which his
specimens might belong. M. Gervais, having better material at his
command, was able to make more precise determinations.
In fossil mammalia he made known a new simian, the Semnopithe-
cus monspessulanus, a hyena, several deer, a porcupine, and numerous
cetaceans. His memoir on the distribution of the fossil mammalia
among the several Tertiary beds of France deserves particular men-
tion. It exhibited the association of the different species among the
various faunas that succeeded one another, from the earliest Tertiary
epoch, corresponding with the lignites of the Soissonais to the period
of the large animals whose remains are found in the breccia of the cav-
erns. The author shows that these different faunas, which he makes to
number seven, never lived simultaneously, either in France or any other
country, and that no species was common to more than one of them.
The fauna which left its bones in the breccia is the only one which is
not entirely extinct. Some of these faunas present only animals of ter-
restrial species, while others furnished in some of the beds both marine
and land species. This feature gave useful indications for determining
by the comparison of the land species buried in the marine beds with
those which are found at other places in fresh-water deposits, the con-
temporaneity of land and marine animals for each epoch. It also enabled
M. Gervais to determine, under certain conditions, the comparative
age of the two kinds of formations. Contrary to the opinion of some
