554
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
MENS AND WOMENS BRAINS.
AN answer to Miss Helen H. Gardener
and the Twenty of the Leading Brain-
Anatomists, Microscopists, and Physicians
of New York.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Dear Sir : In the June number of the
Monthly I find a communication entitled
Sex and Brain- Weight, signed Helen H.
Gardener, and indorsed, as she says, by
twenty of the leading brain-anatomists,
microscopists, and physicians of New York,
which assumes to be in some measure a
reply to my paper, in the April number, on
Brain-Forcing in Childhood. The tone
of the letter is so bad, and it is written in
so unscientific a spirit, that I have hesitated
whether or not to notice it with an answer.
But, lest silence should be held by some to
imply that the assertions of the writer of
the letter in question are entitled to weight,
I have thought it better to ask the indul-
gence of a little space in your columns. I
will premise by saying that I have no dis-
position to enter into a controversy on a
subject that is at present, so far as I am
concerned, of altogether secondary impor-
tance to the one to which my paper on
Brain-Forcing in Childhood mainly re-
lates, and that I shall not again in the
present connection ask any similar favor at
your hands.
With Miss Gardeners opinions of my
antagonism to the female sex I shall not
stop to argue. I have only to say that no
oue is more in favor than myself of womans
intellectual advancement, and that in all
that I have said or done in recent years in
relation to this subject I have recognized
the natural equality of womans brain with
that of a man so far as mentality as a whole
is concerned. I have only contended that
her brain is different from that of man, and
that a fortiori her mind must also be differ-
ent. I am in favor of girls and women
using all the means of development of which
they can avail themselves, and which are of
such a character as to fit them for the duties
of their sex. I am very sure that in many
respects as, for instance, in the study of
music, of painting, sculpture, literature, and
many of the sciences their opportunities
are as great as those of men, and I regret
that they have not made better use of them.
I am opposed to their study of military sci-
ence, or of such branches of knowledge as
they are not likely to use in their lives, as
a mere system of routine, just as I am op-
posed to similar procedures in boys.
Quotin-j from my paper, I repeat, The
skull of the male of the human species is
of greater capacity than that of the female,
and it is a singular fact that the difference
in favor of the male increases with civiliza-
tion.
Now let me bring forward some of the
authorities for this statement in order that
Miss Gardener may submit them to the
twenty of the leading brain-anatomists,
microscopists, and physicians of New York,
whoever they may be, who appear to have
as little knowledge of the subject as she baa
herself.
I may say that there i3 no authority
known to anthropologists that denies that
the capacity of the average male skull is
greater than that of the female. Miss
Gardener and the twenty leading brain-
anatomists, etc., have only to refer to the
Revue dAnthropologie, tome ii, series
18*73, No. 3, page 481, for citations on
this point in regard to twenty six different
nationalities, and in every one of them the
difference is marked. Relative to the sec-
ond assertion, that the difference is greater
in the civilized than in the uncivilized na-
tions, I find in that table that Buschke de-
termined that in twenty-one Geiman men
the average capacity of the cranium was
1,538*76 cubic centimetres, while the average
in eighteen German women was but 1,265*23
cubic centimetres, showing a difference of
273*53 cubic centimetres in favor of the
male skull. In twenty-one male English
skulls, Barnard Davis found the average
capacity to be 1,595*33 cubic centimetres,
while in eighteen female English skulls it
was only 1,37254 cubic centimetres, a dif-
ference in favor of the male skull of 272*79
cubic centimetres.
Looking now at the lower races, we see
that Barnard Davis, in twelve male Aus-
tralian skulls, found the average capacity
to be 1,316*85 cubic centimetres, while in
the skulls of three Australian women the
average was 1,273.08 cubic centimetres, a
difference of only 4377 cubic centimetres.
In nine male negroes of Dahomey, he found
the average skull capacity to be 1,493*88
cubic centimetres, and of three female ne-
groes 1,412*33 cubic centimetres, a differ-
ence of 81*55 cubic centimetres. I could
easily quote other figures to a like effect,
but the foregoing are sufficient to establish
the correctness of my assertion. If Miss
Gardener and the twenty leading brain-
anatomists, etc., desire further information
on this point, I would refer them to the
Dei Carateri Scssuali del Cranio Umano,
