CORBESP ONDENCE.
555
by Paolo Mantegazza, published in the Ar-
chivio per lAnthropologia, vol. ii, 1S72,
or to the elaborate critical review thereof
by M. A. Dureau, in the journal which I
have already mentioned.
Miss Gardener appears to have looked
into a copy of Topinards Anthropology,
and perhaps the twenty leading brain-
anatomists, etc., have done likewise, though
that is doubtful. In any event, let her and
them turn to page 145 of the English edi-
tion, and they will find the following words :
The head of the woman is smaller and
lighter, its contours more delicate, the sur-
faces smoother, the ridges and processes
not so marked. The superciliary arches are
but little prominent; the external half of
the superior orbital border is thin and sharp
(Broca). The forehead is vertical below,
projecting above. The occipital condyles
are small, as also the mastoid and styloid
processes. The zygomatic arches are slen-
der. The cranium in its ensemble is less
high and longer, etc.
Some of these differences are absolutely
inseparable from corresponding differences
in the form of the brain.
Then, if they will refer to Carl Vogts
Lectures on Man, page 90, they will find
the differences between the male and female
crania, due to civilization and barbarism,
stated to the same effect as I have given
them that is, that they are more marked
between the sexes in the civilized than in
the uncivilized nations.
Now, in regard to the cause of this con-
dition, Miss Gardener says that I hold it
to be a natural and unalterable difference
in the brain-mass itself! How she came
to venture upon this assertion is a mystery
to me, and I can only attribute it to that
defective logical power which appears, for
the present at least, to be a characteristic
of most female minds. So far from saying
anything of the kind, I offered two entirely
different explanations of its cause: one to
the effect that civilized women had not
availed themselves of the advantages offered
them, and hence had not developed their
brains pari passu with those of men ; or
else that the work of barbarous men being
very similar to that of their women, there
had not existed the same necessity for an
increased development of their brains.
Then Miss Gardener, without any notice
to the reader that she has changed her
source of information relative to my views,
proceeds to quote from a paper of mine
written several years ago, on the subject of
Women in Politics. To be sure, she
mentions previously that she intends to
quote from two of my papers ; but no one
reading her letter could believe otherwise
than that she was citing extracts from the
paper on Brain-Forcing in Childhood,
published in The Popular Science Month-
ly of April last. I have no copy of the
other paper before me, it having been pub-
lished in the North American Review
several years ago; but doubtless she gives
the words correctly, and I state them here
with her comments as I find them in her
letter :
Dr. Hammond asserts, again, It is only
necessary to compare an average male with
an average female brain to perceive at once
how numerous and striking are the differ-
ences existing between them (the italics are
mine). He submits a formidable list of
striking differences, which include these:
4 The male brain is larger, its vertical and
transverse diameters are greater proportion-
ally, its shape is quite different, the convolu-
tions are more intricate, the sulci deeper,
the secondary fissures more numerous, the
gray matter of the corresponding parts of
the brain decidedly thicker ; of this latter
part the doctor modestly says that the evi-
dence is not so full as might be desired.
But, as if all these were not quite enough
to enable the merest novice to distinguish a
male from a female brain, he offers these
re-enforcements : It is quite certain, as the
observations of the writer show, that the
specific gravity of both the white and gray
substances of the human brain is greater in
man than in woman.
From this last remark she proceeds to
draw the inference (in which doubtless she
is sustained by the twenty leading brain-
anatomists, etc.) that the greater preva-
lence of insanity among men than women is
the result of the greater specific gravity of
the brain, forgetting that the life of man
is so much more active than that of woman,
his liability to injuries so much greater, his
addiction to the excessive use of alcohol so
much more common, and his habits gener-
ally so much worse, as to constitute the real
reasons why he is more liable than woman
to become insane.
Moreover, she appears to be entirely
ignorant of the facts, as are likewise doubt-
less the twenty leading brain-anatomists,
etc., that the specific gravity of the brain
is increased in insane women as well as in
insane men, and that, instead of being a
cause, it is probably a consequence of the
morbid processes to which the brain of the
insane is subjected.
But, in regard to the description which
I have given of the average female brain, I
stand ready to prove its correctness, not.
however, in the rough-and-tumble fashion
proposed by Miss Gardener, but by a process
by which all such determinations are made
by those who know what they are about.
Suppose, for instance, I am describing a
womans thumb, and pointing out its differ-
ences from that of a man. I should say
that it was shorter, smaller in circumfer-
ence, that its articulations were not so
