CORRESP ONDENCE.
557
t ween the male and the female brain can often
be found at the seventh or eighth month of
foetal life, and that the male has the frontal
lobe better developed than has the female,
and that there is an earlier development of
the secondary fissures in it, and in the pari-
etal lobe.
I commend this matter to the serious
consideration of the twenty leading brain-
anatomists, etc. I scarcely believe that
any one of them, without reference to the
physical sex differences referred to by
Miss Gardener, could tell the sex of a three-
months-old infant by a minute inspection of
all the rest of its body.
A word more in relation to the subject
of the comparative weight of the brain in
the two sexes. Miss Gardener and, presuma-
bly, the twenty leading brain-anatomists,
etc., deny that there is any superiority of
brain-weight in the man over that of wom-
an, and she instances the fact that the dif-
ference in the weight of some mens brains
is greater than that existing between that
of the sexes. No one questions that mat-
ter, so far as I know, but certainly nothing
of any importance to her case is to be drawn
from the fact. A like condition exists in
regard to almost all parts of the body.
Thus the average foot of a woman is smaller
than the average foot of a man, yet the dif-
ference between the feet of some men is
greater than the average difference between
the foot of man and woman. The average
ear of a man is larger than the average ear
of a woman. Yet some women have pro-
digious ears, far exceeding in size the ears
of some men ; it would certainly not be
correct to assume from these facts that a
womans foot or a womans ear is larger
than the corresponding members in man.
It is with averages deduced from a large
number of observations that we have to
deal in matters of this kind and not with
individual examples.
Dr. Thurnam gives the average brain-
weight of ten men who were remarkable for
their intellectual development as 54*7 ounces,
among them that of Cuvier, 64 - 5 ounces ;
Abercrombie, 63 ounces ; Spurzheim, 556
ounces ; Daniel Webster, 535 ounces ; Lord
Campbell, 53 - 5 ounces, and Chalmers, 53
ounces. Now, let Mis3 Gardener and the
twenty leading brain-anatomists, etc ,
search the records of anthropology and their
own immense collections for the brain of a
woman weighing as much as the least of
these, that of Dr. Chalmers. I venture to
say that there has never been in the history
of the whole world a female brain, free from
obvious disease, weighing more than fifty-six
ounces, whereas there have been many male
brains exceeding this by several ounces.
Next, in regard to the relative and abso-
lute brain-weights in the two sexes and
in animals generally, Miss Gardener shows
that she is ignorant of the points involved.
She quotes me as saying, Numerous obser-
vations show beyond doubt that the intel-
lectual power does not depend upon tha
weight of the brain relative to that of the
body so much as it does upon absolute brain-
weighty (The italics are Miss Gardeners,
who, not content with exercising the fem-
inine proclivity of italicizing what she
writes, takes that liberty to no small degree
with what I have written.) This is true,
but she does not understand in what its
truth constists, for she goes on to assert
that in accordance with its dictum the brains
of the whale and of the elephant, being of
vastly greater weight than the brain of
man, the animals possessing them should be
superior to man in intelligence. Here she
very disingenuously or very ignorantly at-
tempts to make it appear that I have de-
clared absol te brain- weight, regardless of
species and genera, and without reference
to the structure of the organ, to be the test
of intelligence ; whereas, in everything that
I have ever written with reference to this
point, I have invariably expressed the dia-
metrically opposite opinion. But, if the
brain of a whale or that of an elephant had
as large an amount of gray tissue and as
complex a structure as that of man, it is
very certain that then the whale and the
elephant would stand at the head of all ani-
mated nature, and that man would be their
slave. The elephant, which disports him-
self for the amusement of small boys and
the enrichment of Mr. Barnum, would be
quite capable of causing the small boy and
Mr. Barnum to amble, and gyrate, and to
stand on their heads for his the elephants
amusement and that of his wife and
children. It is not only in size that the
male brain differs from that of woman, but
that its structure and arrangement are also
different.
The absolute brain-weight is, therefore, of
little consequence, except when it relates to
animals of the same species. A whale, with
a brain weighing six or seven pounds, would
be a more intelligent whale than one with a
brain of four or five pounds. A man with
a brain weighing sixty-five ounces is poten-
tially a more intellectual man than the one
with a brain of thirty-five ounces. In three
individuals of very feeble intelligence Tiede-
mann found the weights of their brains to
be 19|, 25|, and 22 ounces, respectively.
Mr. Gore has reported the case of a woman,
forty-two years of age, whose intellect was
infantine, who could only speak a few words,
whose gait was unsteady, and whose chief
occupation was carrying and nursing a doll.
After death the weight of her brain was
found to be but ten ounces and five grains.
As to relative brain-weight, I do not at-
tach much importance to it, as it is subject
to variation according as the individual in-
