558
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
creases or diminishes in weight. Thus, if a
man or a woman weighing one hundred and
fifty pounds has a brain weighing three
pounds the proportion of brain-weight to
body-weight is as 1 : 50. But, suppose the
person loses fifteen pounds in weight, then
the proportion becomes 1 : 45, whereas if
there should be a gain of a like amount the
proportion would change to 1 : 55. In the
first instance, if relative weight has anything
to do with intelligence the mental power
would be increased, while in the other case
it would be diminished. Of course, no such
change takes place.
Many years ago I made several thousand
observations in regard to the weight and
other qualities of the brains of various spe-
cies of animals belonging to the classes of
reptiles, fish, birds, and mammals. In these
investigations I went over to a great extent
the ground previously traversed by Leuret,
and in some respects made new observa-
tions. I found among other interesting facts
that the brain of the canary-bird, reared in
the United States, was in weight as com-
pared to the body as 1 : 105, and in the
Arctic sparrow as 1:11. These little ani-
mals have the largest brains relative to the
body of any others yet examined. To pre-
tend that they are superior in intelligence
to man, in whom the weight of the brain
relative to that of the body averages 1 : 36 - 50,
is, of course, ridiculous. Yet that is the
conclusion to which Miss Gardener, and pre-
sumably the twenty leading brain-anato-
mists, etc., would have us come.
Broca declares that the difference in
weight between the brain of woman and
that of man is not due alone to the smaller
size of her body, but to the additional fact
that woman is in the mean, when compared
to man, a little less intelligent; a fact, he
says, which should not be exaggerated, but
which is nevertheless real. This is going
somewhat farther than I have ever gone,
but what Broca says in a matter of anthro-
pology is worthy of serious attention.
When Miss Gardener says that I make
relative difference count for a great deal
when existing between two men, she passes
the limits of correctness. I have never said
anything of the kind.
One more point, and I have done. I
stated, in the paper on Brain-Forcing in
Childhood, that the human head does not
grow after the seventh year, and Miss Gar-
dener, with the assistance of the foremost
brain-anatomist of New York, is quite fa-
cetious over the assertion. Instead of head
I should have said brain, and then the
point involved would have been more cor-
rectly stated ; for the scalp, muscles, fasciae,
etc., of the head have nothing to do with
the issue which concerns the mind only as
derived from the brain. In regard to the
growth of the brain in size and weight, there
i* abundant authority for the statement that
it ceases to advance at or about the seventh
year. Soemmering states that the maximum
is attained at three years. The brothers
Wenzel, at between six and seven years ;
and Tiedemann, at between seven and eight
years. Other observers have arrived at
different results, but there is room for a
difference of opinion on the subject, and
Miss Gardener should have been aware of
the fact when she dismissed the statement
as though it were entirely unauthorized.
That the brain ceases to grow at a com-
paratively early age is abundantly estab-
lished by the observations of several com-
petent brain-anatomists. Thus, Dr. Boyd,
who based his conclusions on the examina-
tion of over two thousand brains, found the
average weight to be, at the age of from ten
to twenty, 485 ounces the maximum weight
for all ages, and four ounces heavier than
in persons whose ages ranged from twenty
to thirty.
Broca, quoting from Wagners tables,
gives the mean weight in persons of from
ten to twenty years as 51*7 ounces heavier
by 44 ounces than in persons from twenty
to forty years of age.
The average weight of the brain in forty-
seven persons of English, Scotch, and Ger-
man nationality, as given by Thurnam in
one of his tables, is 49*6 ounces in those
whose ages range from ten to twenty years
a weight considerably in excess of that
shown for any other period of life.
The general truth of the assertion made
in my paper on Brain-Forcing in Child-
hood, that the brain of a child is larger
in proportion to its body than that of the
adult is, therefore, not only established,
but the additional fact inferentially stated,
that the brain is absolutely larger in child-
hood than in adults, is shown to be cor-
rect.
And now I must bring this communica-
tion to a close, feeling that I have given
more attention to Miss Gardener than she
and the twenty leading brain-anatomists,
microscopists, and physicians of New York
deserve, and advising them that before they
again rush into print they make themselves
to some extent acquainted with the element-
ary truths of the science of anthropology.
William A. Hammond.
THE EXPLOSION AT BRIGHTON, ILLINOIS.
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Sir: The letter of Mr. A. 0. Fay, pub-
lished in No. 182, seems to call for a few
words in reply, for Mr. Fay appears to have
mistaken the purpose of the article to which
he refers. In the first place, the entire aim
of my article in No. 180 was to present the
phenomena connected with the explosion of
August 29, 1886, and not, as Mr. Fay seems
