EDITORS TABLE.
559
to think, to generalize from a single phe-
nomenon, nor to denounce the methods of
building magazines at present adopted. A
careful re-reading of the article in question,
in the light of Mr. Fays letter, fails to re-
veal any such denunciation, or illegitimate
generalization.
In reference to the proper construction
of powder-magazines, your correspondent
clearly condemns the method adopted at
Brighton, as shown in the three magazines
personally examined, and which I was in-
formed, by the agent in charge of one whose
walls were injured in the explosion, was the
plan of all. In this, of course, my source
of information may have been at fault. But
there is not one word in my article which can
be tortured into a condemnation of this form
of construction, though I did say that a re-
cent occurrence dangerously near Chicago
has shown that it is by no means sufficient
as a matter of protection, and the town of
Lake took a similar view. What I did char-
acterize as very strange is the omission of
any protection against lightning, and I may
add that one of this same group of maga-
zines was destroyed by lightning before, I
think in 1879, though I have not the date
at hand.
Then Mr. Fay says that the simplest
knowledge of the properties of dynamite
would have prevented Professor Griffin from
attributing the non-explosion of other maga-
zines in the vicinity to the fact of their be-
ing beyond the limits where displacement
would not appear. The words italicized
are quoted in a garbled form, which gives
them a very different meaning. Originally,
they stood as parts of two sentences. This
is an easy way of avoiding an explanation
of the phenomena. My article suggests an
explanation, does not give it as the only ex-
planation ; but there were the phenomena,
and to deny my explanation, without any
suggestion of another, is a good illustration
of the method of destructive criticism now
so popular : why does not Mr. Fay give his
own explanation ? Facts are sometimes
stubborn things; and the circle of maga-
zines and other buildings uninjured while
those nearer the wrecked magazine were de-
stroyed and those farther off were wrecked,
is a fact.
I am very glad to be informed of my
ignorance of the fact that other substances
have taken the place of infusorial earth in
the manufacture of dynamite ; it would have
been more gratifying had Mr. Fay told us
what those substances are or is it now a
trade secret ? But I am at a loss to un-
derstand what he can mean by his statement
that it would practically be impossible to
find offered for sale by any manufacturer
or dealer any dynamite, in the compounding
of which earth or any other inert matter
had been used. Does dynamite, as now
made, contain some substance that reacts
chemically upon the nitro-glycerine ? If so,
the public would undoubtedly be glad to
know it, as the danger in the storage of the
substance is probably increased thereby.
Mr. Fays method of quoting parts of
sentences and making them appear as used
in reference to different points from those
to which they were applied does not seem
to me quite fair. Yours truly,
La Roy F. Griffin.
Lake Fokest, Illinois, June 8, 1S87.
EDITORS TABLE.
SCIENTIFIC ORTHODOXY.
ONE of the accusations brought by
the Duke of Argyll against Pro-
fessor Huxley in the discussion that
lately took place between these two
representatives of very different lines
of thought was to put it plainly that
the professor was himself half in rebel-
lion against a kind of scientific ortho-
doxy that has been established in these
later days, and was only waiting until
the movement against it now going on
among the younger men of science bad
gathered a little more strength, in or-
der to declare himself. The professor
warmly, and with good reason, repelled
the implied charge of insincerity, and
asked what were the signs or proofs on
any such scientific tyranny as his Grace
referred to. He had himself a pretty
wide acquaintance with scientific men,
young and old, and if they were under
any constraint that prevented them
from uttering their opinions and con-
clusions with the utmost freedom, he
was not aware of it. There was really
no foundation, we may safely aver, for
the dukes taunt as regards men in the
higher walks of science. These pursue
their researches with no object save
that of the advancement of scientific
knowledge. They give their facts to
